BHOPAL:   on Tuesday said the   due to recent hailstorm in some parts of the state, including  , has been estimated at Rs 75 crore.

 The government has initiated crop surveys in the affected areas to ensure early payment of relief to the farmers. “More than seven districts of Gwalior and Chambal divisions have suffered 25 to 33% crop loss during the recent hailstorm. As a result,   of 68,926 farmers sowed in an area of 56,555 hectares has been damaged. A loss of Rs 75 crore has been estimated in the calamity,” said revenue minister   while replying to a question by Congress leaders during call attention motion in the assembly.
 
 Raising the matter in the House, Congress legislators Govind Singh (Lahar), Shailendra Patel (Ichchawar) and Satyapal Singh Sikarwar (Sumavali) said that more than 15 districts have been affected due to rains and hailstorm. Crops sown in one lakh hectare area has been affected in these districts, incurring a loss of Rs 300 crore. “In Bhind district, 145 villages have been affected by the hailstorm and the government has approved a relief of Rs 36 crore, but the farmers are yet to get it. When they will get financial help?” asked Congress MLA Govind Singh during the debate in the House.
 
 Replying to the query, Gupta said the government has earmarked a global budget for calamity affected areas. He stated that reports of two casualties due to lightning have also been received for which the government has granted a compensation of Rs 4 lakh each to the next kin of the deceased. “Severely affected districts included Gwalior, Shivpuri, Ashok Nagar, Datia, Bhind and Morena, where a minimum 30% loss has been estimated during the survey. The reports also confirmed that several districts of Malwa and West Nimar regions have also been affected with 10 to 15% crop loss being reported from these areas,” said Gupta.
 
 Congress MLA Shailendra Patel said hailstorm has also affected crop production in Sehore district where the total yield of the crop has been reduced after the calamity. “The yield of gram and pulses has gone down. The government should help the farmers to save them from financial losses,” urged Patel. Gupta said a government team comprising employees of the revenue and local administration was surveying the affected areas and relief to the farmers will be approved as early as possible.
 
