Launched in September 2012,   is a monthly rating index based on several measurable parameters, including the stars’ Box-Office performance, their ability to stay in the news across print, TV and online, their brand endorsements, and their popularity among fans on the Internet and social media. These are taken cumulatively to assign the actors a final rank called the ‘T Score’. Times Celebex is a scientific and robust ranking system based on data collected from 60+ publications and 250+ TV channels, making it the first ever ranking system for Bollywood. We have put together the stars’ ranking for the month of March 2017.

  and   occupy the top slot in the Times Celebex powered by Zoom list for the month of March 2017.
 
 Varun Dhawan was in the news for his realistic performance as Badrinath in 'Badrinath Ki Dulhania' and his next, 'Judwaa 2' where he plays a double role. 
 
  
  
 
 
 Manoj Bajpayee leaps from the 50th rank to the 23rd rank. He made news for his role in 'Naam Shabana'.
 Sunil Grover leaps from the 31st rank to the 25th rank. He grabbed headlines for parting ways with comedian Kapil Sharma.
 Randeep Hooda leaps from the 33rd rank to the 29th rank. He made news for his next, 'Battle of Sargarhi'.
 Arjun kapoor leaps from the 20th rank to the 17th rank. He made headlines for the shoot of his next, 'Mubarakan'. 
 
  
  
 
 Tusshar grabbed headlines for returning to the 'Golmaal' franchise.
 Vir Das was in the news for his upcoming ventures. 
 
  
  
 Alia Bhatt was widely talked about for her performance as the righteous Vaidehi in 'Badrinath Ki Dulhania'. She was also in the news for her future projects.
 
  
  
 
  leaps from the 31st rank to the 16th rank. She was in the headlines for 'Begum Jaan'.
 Kiara Advani leaps from the 48th rank to the 30th rank. She grabbed eyeballs for her act in 'Machine'.
  leaps from the 8th rank to the 2nd rank. She made news for her film 'Phillauri'.
 Esha Gupta leaps from the 45th rank to the 34th rank. She was in the news for her next, 'Baadshaho'.
 
  
  
 
 Soha Ali Khan was in the headlines for shooting her upcoming fims.
 Kriti Kharbanda made news for her upcoming projects.
 
 
 
 There was buzz around his cameo in 'Naam Shabana'. 
 
 
  He made headlines for his endorsements and upcoming projects.
 
 
 He was talked about for his upcoming film with Anushka Sharma. 
 
 
  He was in the news for his next films, 'Tubelight' and 'Tiger Zinda Hai'. 
 
 
 He made news for the announcements around what his next film could be. 
 
 
 He grabbed headlines for his act in ' ' and his next, 'Padmavati'.
 
 
 He was in the news for his endorsements.
 
 
 He was in the news for becoming a father to twins by surrogacy.
 
 
 He grabbed headlines for his Marathi productions.
 
 
 She grabbed headlines for her second home production, 'Phillauri'. 
 
 
 She was in the news for her endorsements and her next film, 'Padmavati'.
 
 
  She was being talked about for the second season of her American show, 'Quantico'.
 
 
 She made news for completing work on 'Ittefaq’ remake and 'Noor' in which she plays a journalist.
 
 
  There was buzz around her next film, 'Padman' with   and R Balki.
  
 
  She was in the news for her next with Arjun Kapoor and her songs from her upcoming film.
 
 
 She grabbed the news space for her next with Sushant Singh Rajput and Tarun Mansukhani.
 
 
 She was in the new for the first look of 'Haseena', the biopic on Dawood’s sister.
  
 
 There was buzz around her for her appearance in the 'Sarkar 3' promos.
 
  
  
 
