BATHINDA:   from contractors for auction of   in Malwa region, the excise and   has extended the date for submitting applications till Thursday in Bathinda, Faridkot and Moga districts. Draw of lots for alloting the vends will be held on Thursday evening in Bathinda and Faridkot immediately after the deadline to submit the applications ends.

 The liquor vends will be auctioned on Friday in Moga. Earlier, the draw of lots was to be held on Wednesday and March 27 was last date for filing applications. Not even a single application was received in Bathinda and Faridkot whereas only one was received in Moga.
 
 Failure of the excise department to hold the auction will force it to reduce the licence fee by 5% in accordance with the   for 2017-18. The term of the current contractors will come to an end on Friday. Sources said if the liquor vends were not auctioned by March 31, Punjab government might run these or ask the current licence holders to continue till any decision was taken regarding new allotments.
 
 Bathinda assistant excise and taxation commissioner (AETC) V P Singh said the date to apply for liquor vends had been extended till 4 pm on Thursday and draw of lots would be held at 5 pm if sufficient number of applications were received.
 
 Excise authorities have to collect Rs 184.59 crore from licence fee for 462 liquor vends in Bathinda district, which includes 355 vends of Punjab made liquor (PML) and 107 vends of IMFL with a quota of 63.78 lakh proof litres apart from 14.96 lakh litres of beer. “If the draw is not held on Thursday evening, the licence fee will have to be reduced by 5%, which turns out to be Rs 9.23 crore,” said Bathinda excise and taxation officer (ETO) Vikram Dev.
 
 Faridkot AETC S P S Grewal said no application was received till Wednesday and the time had been extended till Thursday. “We are hopeful that contractors will come forward for five groups of liquor vends,” he maintained.
 
 Moga AETC Joginder Kumar Singla said as only one application by Dharamkot/Ajitwal group was received till Wednesday and so the draw had been postponed to Friday.
 
 
