Actress Prachee Shah Pandaya known for roles in serials like   and  , was recently in Lucknow to promote her serial  .
 
  
 
  
  A professional Kathak dancer, who is also the holder of a Guinness World Record for 93 spins in one minute, is now planning to break her own record., “For the record thing, I got a call from the Guinness World Records headquarters to attempt breaking my own record, for which I got just 20 days to prepare. But I wasn’t ready as my daughter was too young at that time. But my dad forced me to attempt the record. Now when I practice it, the spins cross 100 in a minute and I am planning to attempt breaking my own record,” says Prachee.
  
  A pure classical dancer, Prachee isn’t happy with various experiments and fusions being done in the dance form these days. “People nowadays are experimenting with classical dances by wearing different dresses or using different instruments, which is taking away the essence of the art. In fact, Ciaro mein log asli Kathak seekhne ke liye utaawle hain and they request me to come there to conduct a workshop for them. But in our country, we are getting to see just the opposite of it.”
  
  Tagged as a mother on TV and in films too, Prachee says she now wants to experiment with something new. “Once people see you in a particular role for a long time, they start expecting the same out of you. I also want to do negative roles but I know I will not get a chance because of my current image in the industry. Thankfully, I have my dancing skills to fall back on as another profession if I ever fail in my acting career which I hope will not happen,” says Prachee.
  
  Not new to the city, the actress has also performed at Lucknow Mahotsav a few years back. “One can easily get the Nawabi feel while walking on the streets of old Lucknow or Hazratganj. Going to new Lucknow and seeing it transformed gives me a feel of Delhi or Bombay. But most Lucknowites I met, hold the same warmth in their heart which I feel is the basic spirit of the city,” she says.
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
