The brutal assault on the   has shocked the film industry who have been extending their support for the actress. Among them is producer actress   who has put forward a different take on the issue. It is not enough if one just speaks out against rape, respect for women should start from home, she says in a long facebook post, which goes thus: 

 "What does a man mean when he says women have to be respected? Wise men say respect has to start from home, true. But a man who thinks his mother, sister or wife is primarily a maid and a cook and eveything else later, can only talk about respect but would never give. These men usually equate physical intimacy and caring with respecting women. But the same men will, without batting an eyelid, stab their women's souls and act like nothing happened. For them, it's no big deal.These are the kind of men who perennially ill-treat their own women, then wax eloquent online about rape and abuse. The most dangerous of men are therefore the ones who successfully convince the masses but willingly let the women in their life to suffer and die a slow death.
 
 
 
 Yesterday humanity took a beating ...achieved a new low .. Am deeply saddened by the incident concerning our sister. While she has been brave to come out to report the incident, there are several such cases where the victims prefer to suffer silently because society,media,law and order puts such pressure on them. Let this incident be the last in our gods own country .I trust the judicial system, law and order and people in authority to take swift action and set an example that such an incident never repeats .I urge all friends and family to pray for her in this tough time . I also request the media to respect her privacy and insure matters are published in a dignified manner.
 "Respecting a woman cannot be taught at home or anywhere else, by anyone. Respect can only be proudly shown by a man to a woman and taken with pride by a woman from a man, so it can be clearly seen to inspire and change others who see it."
 
