KOLKATA: Even as men in the corridors of New Delhi are keen on showcasing   leader Sudip Bandyopadhyay’s arrest as part of the Supreme Court-ordained investigation process into the multi-crore   scam, the development has ramifications beyond the legal. It is nothing short of a battle cry from Prime Minister   against  , who rubbed him the wrong way by calling him a “salesman for Paytm”.

 Now it’s a do-or-die battle for Modi and Banerjee, and the Trinamool chief has no exit route.
 
 Sensing it right, Banerjee didn’t waste time in drawing up a slew of protest programmes in Kolkata and New Delhi, eyeing a new polarization with rural Bengal as the axis of her strength. The Bengal chief minister has been reaching out to the districts to charge up the migrant labourers, daily wage-earners, small farmers, self-help groups and small entrepreneurs and traders hit hard by demonetisation. “It’s a financial emergency out here. The poor are the worst hit. The PM will decide what we will do. He will engage Enforcement Directorate, CBI and   officers to arm-twist you if you act defiant. The BJP government is out to punish people. While the PM announced notebandi, his party went ahead with danga fandi (fanning communal tension),” the CM said at a Midnapore rally, hours before CBI took Bandyopadhyay in custody.
 
 It marked a sharp departure from the scene two years ago, when people were talking about the wonderful “personal chemistry” between the Prime Minister and the chief minister. Trinamool leaders had a nice time then, with CBI going slow on the Ponzi probe. Modi gave enough prominence to the Bengal chief minister during his Dhaka trip in 2015. The Trinamool chief reciprocated by throwing a lifeline to BJP during the passing of many crucial bills — including GST — in Rajya Sabha, where the BJP falls short of a majority. During this time, another top Trinamool leader, Mukul Roy, was called for questioning by CBI, but was not arrested. Now that battle lines have been drawn,   couldn’t escape arrest.
 
 The PM isn’t sitting idle. He announced demonetisation to highlight corruption. A major section of the salaried class and the poor welcomed the move. But Modi didn’t stop there. He resuscitated the Ponzi probe when sections of the educated middle-class were unhappy over his government’s apparent silence over the multi-crore scam. With a whole range of politicians having a hand in the scam, it gave a toehold to the Modi government to book the accused, mostly TMC leaders, also a few   and Left ones.
 
 Banerjee is leaving no space for BJP in rural areas. She has marshalled all her forces in rural Bengal to guarantee 100% ground domination. Her aim is to consolidate her support base in the coming panchayat polls by the year-end and spring back in national politics before the 2019 Lok Sabha polls.
 
 
