KANNUR: The police team investigating the   of   worker Choorakkad Biju near Payyannur in the district on May 12 has seized the car used by the assailants to execute the murder. Two people have also been taken into custody for questioning, as part of the probe.

 Police have identified one of the men in custody as Bijoy, the owner of the silver coloured Innova car used by the assailants, which he had given on rent to them a few days ago. The other man is the one who drove the car, said police. The owner apparently has no role in the murder and he gave it on rent without knowing the plot, said police. The role of the other man is being investigated.
 
 Though it is a political murder and the suspects known to have connections with the  , it is not sure whether there was a political conspiracy or if it was carried out with the connivance of local leadership of the CPM, said police. As of now the focus is on nabbing the killers, they said.
 
 “We cannot say the political affiliation of the killers and we are in the process of tracing them based on the statement given by the owner of the vehicle,” said  , who is leading the investigation.
 
 Biju was the 12th accused in the murder of CPM leader   C V in July 2016. It was quite recently that he got bail in the case, and it is suspected that he was killed in an act of retaliation.
 
 Meanwhile, the scientific examination of the car, and also the two-wheeler in which the victim was travelling, has proved that the same vehicle was used by the assailants, as there were dents and also blood marks, said police. Though some witnesses had said there were seven people in the car, there could have been more, police said.
 
 According to police, Biju was riding pillion on the two-wheeler with his friend Pandaravalappil Rajesh, after he got down from the train coming from Managaluru, at Pazhayangadi. The gang was apparently following him from the railway station.
 
 On reaching the Palakkod Bridge near Payyannur, the vehicle knocked down the two-wheeler, and they attacked Biju, while Rajesh was spared, and he escaped. The assailants, who fled from the scene, later abandoned the car at Maniyara near Payyannur from where it was seized on Sunday morning.
 
 The car was identified with the help of the information provided by Rajesh and also other witnesses, said police.
 
 Though the law and order situation is under control, police have strengthened vigil in the sensitive areas in and around Payyannur to avert any untoward incidents.
 
