NAGPUR: Battle lines for the February 21 elections to the 151-member Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) were drawn on Friday, the last day for filing nominations.

 One of the most striking features this time is the denial of tickets to many  . All the major parties — Congress, NCP, Shiv Sena and BJP — have collectively denied tickets to 52 sitting corporators.
 
 All the major parties faced rebellion from cadres who were denied tickets with many switching loyalties overnight after being denied ticket. The actual number of rebels will become clear on February 7, the last day for withdrawal of nominations.
 
 The demand for SS, NCP and BSP tickets saw a huge jump overnight following the failure of Congress and NCP as well as BJP and Shiv Sena to stitch an alliance. The BJP faced a grim situation following refusal of tickets to 26 of its 62 sitting corporators. Likewise, the Congress too denied tickets to 17 of the 41 sitting corporators, BSP dropped four of 12 sitting corporators and NCP denied tickets to two of its six corporators.
 
 Shiv Sena, which has six corporators, refused tickets to one sitting corporator. It was, perhaps, for the first time that so many sitting corporators were denied tickets.
 
 Party insiders claimed that poor performance was one of the key reasons for denying them tickets.
 
 However, BJP city president and MLA Sudhakar Kohale differed and clarified that those who were denied tickets too have done well. He said the party selected candidates as per demarcation of the new prabhag system and the ones who got tickets have been associated with the party for more than two decades.
 
 Kohale, however, failed to give reasons of denying ticket to good performers like Gopal Bohare.
 
 City Congress President   said, “Our approach is to secure maximum votes by using our omnibus appeal. The absence of an alliance with any party means that we should put in an extra effort to dislodge the BJP-led alliance from the NMC.”
 
 SS district president Satish Harde claimed that the party has not denied tickets to its sitting corporators. In fact,   herself rebelled and joined Congress party recently, he said.
 
 He added that the party has accommodated all its workers and distributed B forms for 120 to 125 seats of the total 151 seats.
 
