THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Veteran journalist S   still remembers the day when the then chief minister   asked him to `get out' of the cabinet briefing, after he was apparently irked by a question the youngster had asked. Radhakrishnan was confused, but, the seniors ­ who were present there ­ asked him to ignore the remark and stay back. After the news conference, Nayanar approached him and said: “Had you gone out right then, it would have pained me a lot“. A pat on the back followed.

 “It is still one of the most memorable moments of my career. I still get emotional thinking about that very incident,“ said Radhakrishnan on Monday, soon after chief minister Pinarayi   ordered a bunch of journalists to exit the Mascot Hotel's hall in a tone that was filled with both threat and arrogance. Unlike Nayanar, Pinarayi Vijayan lacked the ability to reconnect with the aggrieved lot and thus control the damage.
 
 It is not the first time that Pinarayi Vijayan lost his temper in public. A few years ago, he shouted at a   employee in New Delhi, questioning his role in spreading rumours against someone dear to him. Vijayan, who was the state secretary of CPM then, called the employee by name and scolded him and issued a warning never to repeat the act.
 
 A few months ago, when the assembly was in session, the chief minister raised his voice against minister  , who was sitting right beside him on the first row, when he tried to prompt Vijayan. The microphone in the assembly caught his fury which was then reported by media. Last year, during the initial days of the LDF cabinet, Vijayan is said to have cautioned another minister in his cabinet when she tried to address him as `Vijayettan'.
 
 According to basic psychological theories, anger is the manifestation of frustration. “When a frustrating agent prevents someone from reaching a goal, heshe will become angry ,“ said a leading psychologist on condition of anonymity . He hinted that the chief minister's quick temper on Monday might be because he viewed journalists as frustrating agents. “Recent media reports ­ including Monday's headlines of Governor summoning the CM ­ might have been the trigger,“ he said.
 
 But, sources close to Vijayan beg to differ. They said that he was only expressing what came to his mind at that very moment. “He could have smartly hidden his feeling and spoken to media naturally . But, he chose to express it instantly . For him, the episode ended right there,“ said a source. He also said the CM had been upset over the happenings in the last few days and that might have complicated the situation.
 
 When Vijayan exited after the talk, he seemed to be a different man as he spoke in a pleasant tone about the discussion. But, his temper resurfaced when reporters asked him about the earlier insult.
 
 “He could have been more cautious while dealing in public space. Especially, when we have cameras and mi crophones all around,“ said veteran journalist Jacob George. “His core personality is love and warmth. There are moments when everyone loses calm,“ he said. George also hinted at the absence of a professional support mechanism to the chief minister, which would have rectified the damage to an extent.
 
 The insult also invited the wrath of Kerala Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ). “If mass leaders start to behave in this manner, collecting information for news would become a near impossible task. This will only lead to clashes everywhere. The chief minister should realise the same and rectify the mistake,“ said general secretary of KUWJ C Narayanan.
 
