DEHRADUN: The sizeable population of defence personnel in Uttarakhand is a big vote bank in the state which BJP has been trying to woo but will the faujis vote for lotus this time? Estimates are that out of the total voting population of around 74 lakh voters in the state, approximately 15% is made up of defence personnel which includes family members of serving and retired officials and jawans.
 
  There are no clear party positions the   in the state has taken in the last three elections with most ex-servicemen claiming that they have voted on the basis of issues and candidates rather than parties. Nevertheless, since the formation of the BJP government at the Centre two years back, PM   has come up with many schemes to sway the defence fraternity whether it is through implementation of the seventh pay commission,   or more recently the appointments of senior officers in the armed forces, majority of whom are from Uttarakhand. While most veterans stoutly claim to be ‘apolitical’, there are indications that Modi’s moves may have hit the sweet spot with the faujis.
  
  Col (retd) C M Raizada who has been residing in the state for the last 20 years told TOI, “I personally vote for the candidate and not for any party but at the same time, it cannot be denied that the present situation in Uttarakhand is far from satisfactory. There is rampant corruption and it seems that the party in power at the Centre might be good for the state as well.”
  
  A few like Col (retd) S C Tyagi were more direct in their support. ”BJP has done for the armed forces what the others couldn’t for several years. It has recognised our dues and made efforts to pay what was owed to us.”
  
  In his recent rally in Dehradun last month, Modi had made it a point to reach out to defence personnel by highlighting in his speech that Rs 6,600 crore of the Rs 12,000 crore earmarked for OROP had already been paid and more funds will be released at a later stage. Not all defence personnel agree that what the PM was touting as a “big gift to the defence forces” was actually so. “OROP has not been implemented as promised but we are hopeful that it will be revised in due course of time”, said Brig (retd) K G Behl of the United Front of Ex-servicemen, Uttarakhand chapter. He added that the choice in the elections was between two parties who had not fulfilled their promises completely. “Even the Congress government hasn’t removed the excise duty on liquor for defence personnel as they had promised.”
  
  Meanwhile, on Thursday, Indian   (IESM), which is agitating for OROP implementation for over a year announced that it will support the Congress in forthcoming polls. IESM chairman Maj Gen Satbir Singh (retd) made the statement in presence of the chief ministers of Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand, Virbhadra Singh and Harish Rawat respectively, according to a PTI report. Clearly, the battle for fauji votes is still on.
