  : Teachers from across the state will stage a   on July 31 against the government's  . 

 The move comes after basic education department launched the process of transferring "surplus" teachers in primary and upper primary schools .
 
  According to government rules, a primary school should have one teacher for 30 students while the ratio of teacher and student in junior high schools is 1:33. Teachers claimed that government is identifying "surplus" teachers going by the strength of students in a class on April 30 instead of September 30, which was the cut-off date till now. They said as the admission process in schools takes place from April to September, the students' strength is only 60% in April.
 
  The teachers are also demanding action against officials who transferred "surplus" teachers over the past few years.
 
  Rajendra Gangwar, district president, Uttar Pradesh Junior High School Teachers' Association, said, "Teachers of upper primary schools from across the state will protest in Lucknow against the transfer policy. We want education department to determine surplus teacher in each school considering the enrollment of the number of students on September 30. Besides, schools have surplus teachers because they were transferred by senior officials."
 
  Gangwar wondered, "Why should teachers pay the price (of transfers) when officials are equally responsible (for surplus teachers). Action should be taken against such officials." He added that his association has called a meeting of teachers on Monday to discuss the issue. 
 
  In Bareilly district, basic education department began transfers of primary school teachers on Thursday while it is yet to shift those in upper primary schools. "We have effected the transfers considering the guidelines issued by state government," said Chandana Ram Iqbal Yadav, basic shiksha adhikari, Bareilly. 
 
  When transfer of primary schools was taking place in   on Thursday, a section of teachers had staged a protest citing certain anomalies in the list of "surplus" teachers and schools allotted to them. They had also submitted a memorandum to the district magistrate demanding a probe into it.
 
