 head coach   was pleased with what he saw of his team on the first day of training at the Miramar beach on Wednesday.
 
  A total of 26 players got down to business in the early hours of the day and proved their fitness with a jog that lasted more than half an hour. Coach Costa and technical director Peter Valles, watching intently, didn’t seem too perturbed as the fitness levels – at least on the surface – were encouraging.
  
  “Each player was given a special programme to follow during off-season. It included activities besides   and they have all lived up to my expectations,” said Costa.
  
  After years in the top flight of Indian football, the club owned by   opted out of the I-League last year, along with Salgaocar FC and Dempo SC, in protest against the All India Football Federation’s proposed roadmap for restructuring Indian football. The proposal hit the three Goan clubs hard and they reacted by opting out of the premier league.
  
  Moving out of the top, however, doesn’t mean curtains for Sporting Clube. The Panaji-based club, established in 1999, has served as a platform for many home grown talents and they are determined to follow the same path for years to come.
  
  This time, though, the focus has changed; while it was I-League earlier, Sporting’s quest, this season, will be to emerge champions in the Goa Pro League which they have won three times earlier.
  
  “Last season we finished runners-up in the Pro League but this time we are aiming only for the title. The team is young and the boys must take this opportunity to prove themselves and represent the country one day,” said technical director Peter Vales.
  
  It’s never easy to win a title in Goa. There are just too many competitors but Sporting Clube will be encouraged with their youth policy. It’s a policy that has got them rich dividends, winning both the under-18 and under-20 state leagues. Seven players have now been rewarded with a place in the senior team, while the addition of players like Peter Carvalho, Alesh Sawant, Girish Naik (all FC Bardez) and Melroy Fernandes (Calangute Association) will give them a definite edge.
  
  “We have continued with the core but whatever we lacked last year, we are filling in those positions,” said Costa.
  
  The team looks promising with a balance of youth and seniors with the most notable figure being Joseph Pereira. The midfielder has been unmissable at the club for 14 consecutive years and even at age 35 has shown no signs of slowing down.
  
  “I joined Sporting Clube at the age of 20 and it has been a wonderful journey. I wish to continue for more years, provided I am fit,” said Joseph, who played an inspirational role as Sporting Clube finished runners-up in the National Football League and Federation Cup in 2005.
  
  The Goa Pro League which usually begins in August is likely to kick off only after the Fifa Under-17 World Cup concludes in October. With the GFA now sanctioning a 15-day pre-season tournament starting August 16, Sporting may have to first set their eyes on a lower prize before going for the kill in the league.
