NEW DELHI: Faced with increasing violence by patients and their relatives,   of AIIMS have decided to take steps to protect themselves. Starting May 15, the doctors will take   from black belt champions in martial arts, including taekwondo.

 Dr Vijay Kumar, president of AIIMS Resident Doctors' Association, told TOI that the administration had permitted them to hold daily training classes at the hospital.
 
 “Two black belt champions will impart self-defence skills to interested candidates daily from 6-7pm and 7-8 pm at AIIMS," Dr Kumar said. “Prevention is better than cure," he said, adding there was no point criticising lax security in the hospital or seeking justice once an attack had taken place.
 
 Their counterparts at Lok Nayak Hospital and Lady Hardinge Medical College have already undergone similar trai ning. “We were taught by Delhi Police personnel how to defend ourselves from aggressive attendants or evacuate safely in case of a dangerous situation," said Dr Yugal Karkhur, president of the RDA of Maulana Azad Medical College, to which LNH is attached. Delhi Police had held   at Lok Nayak at the re quest of the hospital's chief medical officer from April 5 to 17, Dr Karkhur said.
 
 Dr Pankaj Solanki, who heads the federation of RDA's of all Delhi hospitals, said self-defence skills were needed by all doctors. “In the past one year, there have been four instances each of violence against doctors at AIIMS and Ambedkar hospital and three each at Lok Nayak, Guru Tegh Bahadur and Acharya Bhikshu,“ he said.
 
 In March, the AIIMS RDA had launched a unique protest to display solidarity with the striking doctors of Maharashtra, who were agitating on the same issue, by wearing helmets at work.
 
 “Self-defence is only way to stay safe in this violent atmosphere. Increasing security or deploying marshals doesn't really help much," said Dr Vivek Chauksey of Lady Hardinge Medical College, referring to the decision of Ram Manohar Lohia and Deen Dayal Upadhyaya hospitals to hire marshals to deal with attendants who misbehave or force themselves inside without permission. AIIMS had also written to CISF for security -a plan that did not take off.
 
 Meanwhile, surveys show a significant increase in incidents of violence against doctors. Nearly one in every two doctors has faced violence at public hospitals, a survey conducted at MAMC had revealed. The study covered 169 junior residents and senior residents, working mostly at Lok Nayak and G B Pant -hospitals attached to MAMC. The respondents said verbal abuse (75%) was the most common form of violence, followed by threats (51%) and physical assault (12%).
 
 Dr Vinod, general secretary of MAMC's Resident Doctors' Association, told TOI that violence continues to grow despite assurances from the government.
 
 “It is humiliating and frustrating either to be beaten up or abused for no fault. If there is overcrowding or no ICU bed is available, how is the doctor to blame?“ he said, adding that entry of visitors to hospitals must be restricted.
 
