It was a day packed with emotions. The grand finale of the first season of   was nothing short of a gala affair. As fans of the show waited with bated breath for the grand finale, dancer Sandy kick-started the show with an energy-packed dance performance to a song dediacted to Bigg Boss Tamil. The dance number took the audience through a trip down the memory lane in the house. Soon, it was the turn of eliminated contestants to get into the house that too for the song 'Aalaporan Tamizhan' from Mersal. 

  It was a pleasant sight to see the old housemates conversing with the final four contestants- Snehan, Ganesh,   and  . Some reminisced their days in the house and some even asked for forgiveness from others.   said that he had not slept for the last five days and that he would really miss the house. He added that he was not a crybaby and that he was an emotional person. Harish and Aaran said that when the old housemates woke them up, they couldn't figure out if it was a dream or reality.
 
  However, all eyes were on how people’s favourite   would talk to Aarav, who had rejected her proposal during her stay in the house. She eventually left the house citing medical reasons. Oviya tells Anuya that she doesn’t know what to talk and that she would just go with the flow. The encounter sure was awkward. Aarav and exchanged pleasantries and shared a brief chat in the makeup room. Oviya said that she wouldn’t disturb Aarav again and added that he had lost lot of weight. 
 
 Later, Kamal Haasan invited all the contestants on stage. Families of the final four contestants had also arrived on the sets and they wished the final four. Kamal Haasan asks Ganesh’s wife Nisha to invite the second runner up of the show- Ganesh. And, Oviya is assigned the task to invite a housemate back to stage. But, contrary to the audience’s expectations, Oviya brings Harish to the stage. Harish says that only the person who stayed for 100 days and went through all the ups and downs deserves the title. Ganesh, on the other hand, thanked the audience for their love. Kamal Haasan then goes inside the house himself to invite the final two contestants on stage. After they bid a final goodbye to the house, Aarav and Snehan are brought to the stage. 
 
 Aarav is declared the winner of the title and bags the prize money of Rs 50, 000, 00. Aarav thanked his parents, school teachers and the audience for voting for him. Kamal Haasan revealed that that show had garnered 76, 76, 53,065 votes in total. He also thanked the meme creators and trolls, who made the show even more popular. Apart from Oviya, Bharani gota thunderous applause from the audience. It was a visual delight to see Oviya and Bharani seated next to each other.
 
 Director   and producer Dil Raju made a special appearance on the show and announced ' '. Shankar says that he got a line for 'Indian 2' a couple of years back and added that after Rajinikanth’s '2.0', he had a gut feeling that he would do 'Indian 2'. Kamal Haasan says that none of his films were launched on a big stage.
 
  Kamal Haasan also took the opportunity to make few statements about his political entry. He said that he was coming here for love and not greed. He said that he would be responsible to the public. He also added that if the public didn’t find him fit, he would support anyone who were there for people’s good. The show ended with Kamal Haasan switching off the lights in the Bigg Boss house. Power-packed performances by the eliminated housemates Gayathri Raghuram, Julie and Suja kept the audience enthralled. 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
