RAIPUR: The   (CBI) on Tuesday arrested a senior IAS officer after he allegedly paid gratification money through a hawala dealer for "fixing" pending CBI investigations against him.

 CBI sources said that BL Agrawal, a 1998 batch IAS officer posted as principal secretary (higher education), was arrested from Raipur and taken to Delhi for production before a CBI court later in the evening. The arrest came after CBI raided Agrawal’s office and other premises in the last couple of days, besides raiding premises of a few middlemen in Greater Noida and Hyderabad.
 
 The CBI, during the process, also seized Rs 20 lakh cash and 2 kg gold -- which was supposed to be exchanged as part of the deal to 'fix' the case.
 
 The investigating agency registered a case against the principal secretary for allegedly paying Rs1.5 crore to private persons for settling two CBI cases filed against him. One of the accused,  , had told Agrawal that he works at the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) and could help him get relief in CBI cases. It was found that the Hyderabad-based Burhanuddin didn't work in any government department, and along with his Greater Noida-based associate  , fooled Agrawal.
 
 In 2010, the CBI had registered two cases for alleged corruption and criminal conspiracy against Agrawal when he was the agriculture secretary. CBI had initiated a probe against him in 2010 after I-T department raids revealed that he had properties worth around Rs 93 crore. He has already been charged in one of the cases. However, EOW and anti-corruption bureau (ACB) cases fell flat due to lack of sufficient evidence and finally his suspension was revoked. Later, he got promotion as principal secretary.
 
 CBI officials said Agrawal had himself contacted Bhagwan Singh, seeking the his help to settle the cases against him.
 
 Singh introduced him to his associate Syed Burhanuddin. "Burhanuddin told the IAS officer that he works in PMO and assured him that CBI cases would be settled in his favour," a CBI official said.
 
 Syed Burhanuddin had told Agrawal that he will have to pay Rs 1.5 crore, of which Rs 20 lakh was paid in cash and a deal stuck to pay the remaining amount in gold. Agrawal, however, alleged a conspiracy against him. "I have nothing to do with the case. The case which the CBI is talking about is pending in the  , which has granted a stay to me," he said.
 
