NEW DELHI: There seems to be no impact of a huge   and suspension of driving licences on   in the capital. Also,   seems to have earned the dubious distinction of having the maximum drunk driving cases.

 Data from a special drive conducted by the   over the past three days shows that of the 549 drivers fined, 243 were from south Delhi. Also, over 60% of the violators were private vehicle owners. Around 50% of the cases in south Delhi were from areas around farmhouses near Mehrauli. It was followed by markets around GK, Lajpat Nagar, Defence Colony and Hauz Khas.
 
 Of the total drivers challaned, 70% had a Delhi driving licence. Violators from south Delhi accounted for about 42% of the prosecutions, while 15.8% were from west. North Delhi had the lowest number of offenders with just 1% found driving drunk. Almost 60% of the drunk drivers had alcohol content more than 150mg per 100ml blood on average. 
 
 “The drive was conducted at strategic locations, including Nehru Place, Hauz Khas and Greater Kailash. The policemen were asked to wear body-cameras to record the behaviour of the drivers when they were caught,” said DCP (southern range) Vijay Singh.
 
 This year till date 10,250 drivers have been booked for drunk driving. Drivers continue to violate norms with impunity because only 1% of the violators are sent to jail by courts and the others are let off upon paying a fine of Rs 2,000 and suspension of driving licence for three months, police said. The power of suspending licences was introduced in December last year.
 
 Occasionally, drunk drivers are arrested under   Section 279 and their vehicles impounded. But these strictures aren’t enough and stricter legal provisions are needed to reduce drunken driving instances, police said.
 
 In 2016, the highest number of drunk driving-related accidents were reported from dark spots on Mehruali-Badarpur Road and Mehrauli-Mahipalpur stretch past midnight. Other vulnerable stretches included Outer Ring Road, NH-1 and Mathura Road.
 
