KOLKATA: Chief minister   is working out an alternative plan for workers who have lost their jobs due to demonetisation. In an effort to create jobs for the gold artisans who have lost their jobs, the state is coming up with a new   — the third of its kind — beside Belgharia Expressway in Howrah.

 The   (WBIDC), has come up with a new plan to develop a jewellery park on an eight-acre plot beside Belgharia Expressway. “Mamata Banerjee has asked WBIDC officials to submit a detailed report on the project at the earliest. The place has road links to Kolkata, Howrah, Kharagpur and Durgapur and is 12km from the central business district. The airport is 22km away from the proposed site,” a senior official at the state secretariat said.
 
 WBIDC is trying to negotiate with an Italian company to formulate the design of the park. “After the implementing agency finalizes the plan, they will submit it before the cabinet. Once we get the approval, we plan to complete construction within two years,” a senior cabinet minister said.
 
 Pegged at Rs 80crore, the jewellery park will be developed as a public-private-partnership project. “Apart from the   or Common Facilities Building (CFB), there will be a two-storeyed   (SDF). The upper floor of the SDF building will house 1,000 manufacturing units, which will allow at least 25,000 gold artisans to work at a time,” a Nabanna official said. 
 
 “It will be a comprehensive business area that will cater to both retail and wholesale customers. Special thrust will be given to export and we will provide infrastructure for export of gems and jewellery,” the minister said. 
 
 Interestingly, WBIDC is developing another jewellery park at Ankurhati, just a few kilometres away. Though the government is looking for private players to set up units in the park, the future of this hub in same area raises questions.
 
 A cabinet minister said, “The artisans from Bengal comprise about 70% of all artisans involved in the business in India. There are about 10 to 15 lakh artisans from our state who have lost their jobs due to demonetisation. It is our social responsibility to stand beside them. We will work out a plan to make both parks economically viable”.
 
