KOLKATA: Chief minister   on Friday indicated that her patience is running thin with central agencies “selectively targeting”  . She hinted that her party workers will soon hit streets demanding why the central agencies are not paying back the hapless investors their due from the seized Ponzi assets. Her statements come in the backdrop of a sudden fillip in the two-year-long probe after money laundering charges surfaced against Subhra Kundu, wife of Rose Valley’s now-imprisoned boss Gautam Kundu. The central agencies, ED and CBI, have “attached” Rs 1200 crore worth   assets.

 With her party MPs raising the issue in Parliament, Mamata, speaking to reporters on the sidelines of the state assembly session, said, “We may be a national party, but we are also the poorest. Yet, we are being selectively targeted. Other bigger parties don’t, but we are among the first to submit our tax returns, show our earnings. Here parties show crores they receive from ‘unknown sources’. They don’t even file their returns on time. Is this what we get to be true?” 
 
 “But we will not take such political vindictiveness lying down. They have seized crores in assets. Why aren’t they returning them to their depositors? We will hit streets in protests,” she said. “In a public role, leaders are asked to go to different places, meet different people. How is it possible to know who is right or wrong?” she asked.
 
 There is no provision for ED under the PMLA Act to refund seized assets. After exhausting the legal provisions, it will hand over the seized assets to the Centre, which will then vest it. The Centre can form a managing committee that will then decide its fate. 
 
 The developments coincided on a day when a burkha-clad Subhra Kundu reached the ED’s CGO Complex office on Friday evening to duck reporters jostling outside. By heading for the ED questioning Subhra also closed the door on Kolkata Police’s STF who were keen to question her — their third-day in a row. During interrogation, Subhra reportedly told the sleuths that police did not ask her anything about the Rs 15 crore transaction in any of her accounts. ED’s assistant director Manoj Kumar took recourse to legalese not to respond to a Kolkata Police summons on Friday. Kumar cited a “no permission” reason from his office. “They are yet to inform us about the evidences they have against Kumar. Moreover, they have not given any detail about the FIR based on which the officer has been summoned,” said an ED official.
 
 On Thursday, Subhra had told police that she wanted a separation from Gautam. She, however, kept quiet when asked why then is Kundu still paying her regularly. It is learnt police are also questioning two persons for their alleged proximity to Kumar. The latest expose comes in the backdrop of ED report to CBI on a statement by Debjani Mukherjee, a co-accused in the Saradha muddle, where she had reportedly hinted that police may have a clue on Sudipta Sen’s missing dairy in which he noted all cash transactions.
 
 
