NEW DELHI: It's not often that a top-ranking   player is a fan of an Indian table tennis player. It's exactly what's World No. 5   feels for top India paddler  . Kamal, however, has a score to settle with Ovtcharov if they do get a chance to square up against each other in the Seamaster   which gets underway on Tuesday .

 Their relationship goes beyond the defeat the Kamal suffered at the hands of Ovtcharov in the   semifinal in 2010. In fact, they are practice buddies, as they would like to describe it. And Ovtcharov sees Kamal as an inspiration. “At this point he (Kamal) is a kind of role model for me. He is a real sportsman at the table and a gentleman beside the table. He is my friend, we know each other for a long time. He is still often practising in Düsseldorf and I am always very glad to meet him and talk to him,“ Ovtcharov said ahead of the tournament.
 
 Kamal, on the other hand, has picked up a lot practising with Ovtcharov which is why he is the only member in the Indian team who has been allowed to continue with the European style by coach  .
 
 “Well, Dima is a great per son. Unlike most top players, he is someone who is willing to share his experience. He is always thinking and talking table tennis,“ Kamal told TOI before quipping: “He is a giver. And it is my time to give him back. He de feated me here seven years ago.“
 
 Sharath, though, quickly clarified, “Obviously, that's not the priority. My aim is to break into the top-50 again and prepare for the Commonwealth Games and Asian Games next year.“
 
 Besides the camaraderie the duo share, Ovtcharov doesn't hold back in talking about the threat the world No. 62 could pose for him. “He is a great fighter with an unbelievable spirit. It is never easy playing him,“ the top seed claimed. In addition, the German, back in India after seven years, looks forward to the new generation of Indian players. “I am curious to see how they have improved in the last few months and how they will show up in front of their home crowd.“
 
 Other than Kamal, Ovtcharov also has the experience of Paul Drinkhall to contend with.“Paul is a great player who has improved a lot during the last years. It is always tough competing against him because he is tactically a very smart opponent who knows me perfectly well from dozens of duels.Should I face him, I will be prepared but will have to play at my best,“ Ovtcharov reckoned.
 
 Prize money hiked The prize money of the tournament has been hiked to $150000, making it the highest prize money TT tournament in India. Soumayjit Ghosh, world No. 82, will start off his campaign against Jeet Chandra in the qualifiers on Tuesday.
 
 
