THANE: Even as heavy   failed to inconvenience lake-city denizens with the usual instances of water logging and traffic jam, the regional disaster management cell and   officials were kept on their toes because of tree falls and   incidents. 

 While the past few weeks have seen hardly any rainfall, the lake-city received over 130mm rainfall in just the past two days, bringing thousands of citizens relief from the sultry weather.
 
 However, the strong winds that accompanied the continuous heavy showers not only managed to knock down over 10 full grown trees and many more branches, but also the entire asbestos sheet roofing of a civic school and three hutments in Kalwa’s Gholai Nagar area on Saturday.
 
 “It has been a hectic day for us. At around 12.30am, the massive metal roofing of Vartak Nagar’s TMC school number 44 came crashing down because of the heavy rains and strong winds. Through the day we had to clear the sites of around 10 tree falls, one of which fell atop three hutments in Vitawa’s Mokashi Chawl,” said Santosh Kadam, disaster management officer,  .
 
 “Late Saturday, the winds knocked off three other hutments at Kalwa’s Golai Nagar area. These hutments fell on top of four others, thus damaging them as well. Luckily, nobody was injured in these incidents,” he said.
 
 Citizens were pleasantly surprised that the rains did not cause major problems. 
 
 “After the condition of the city following the first rains, we were expecting a lot of waterlogging and traffic jams, but were pleasantly surprised that there were none. However, as the weather had become quite windy and foggy during the heavy showers, we had to drive slowly and keep our blinkers on as the visibility on the roads was low,” said Avkash Desai, a Ghodbunder Road resident.
 
 Civic officials asserted that following the IMD prediction of heavy rains over the city, they have kept their staff on a 100 per cent alert mode.
 
 “We have deployed a team of 10 people who are working three shifts in each ward, and have given them a rescue vehicle and JCB each in case there is any disaster. We have also kept the pumping equipment ready in case there is any water logging,” said a senior civic official.
 
 Weathermen predicted that these heavy rains and winds will continue for the next four days, after which they will dip for a few days and then come in full swing once again.
 
 We have deployed a team of 10 people who are working three shifts in each ward, and have given them a rescue vehicle and JCB each in case there is any disaster. We have also kept the pumping equipment ready in case there is any water logging
 
 
