KOLKATA:  , executives and academics from the city who reside in the US are determined not to let the recent incidents of racial attacks alter their lives or beliefs. 

 “A majority of Americans are genuinely nice and not at all racist. The mischief mongers are in minority,” Mahuya Paul reiterates every time her father Sisir Ranjan expresses concern during the Skype calls to Tampa, Florida.
 
 Shyamasree Dutta, who stays in Cleveland, Ohio, tells the same thing to her mother: “These are stray incidents. There is absolutely nothing to worry about.” 
 
 The reassurance does not quite assuage Satisree Palit’s fears. “They would earlier boast about how safe it was to go out alone even late at night. They don’t say so any longer. I guess they have realised it is wise to be careful,” she says.
 
 Despite assurances that the situation is normal and not as grave as it appears from media reports in India, parents whose children are now settled over 12,000km away in American cities and towns are a worried lot. There is also a sense of helplessness at their inability to do anything that could cocoon their dear ones in safety.
 
 “It’s easy for them to tell us not to worry. But can any parent be oblivious to what is happening there?” says Mahuya’s mother Sabita. The concern for her daughter, son-in-law and granddaughter is matched by her anger against US President Donald Trump whom she squarely blames for fuelling trouble through his campaign speeches that hit out at immigrants. 
 
 “Not just immigrants, judging by the huge demonstrations, even Americans don’t like what Trump advocates,” says Sabita.
 
 Former footballer Shyamal Banerjee, whose son Rohit and daughter Deblina live in Kansas City where Hyderabad-born techie   was shot in a bar, said he had been speaking to his children daily since. 
 
 “There, everyone travels alone. That is a cause for worry in these uncertain times. I hope the situation returns to normal,” he says, adding that his heart went out to the parents of Srinivas who was only a few years older than Rohit.
 
 Errol and Bernadina Colaco, whose daughter Bridgette migrated to the US in 2001, recall that it didn’t feel this way even post-9/11. “The anger was then directed against a religious community to which the attackers belonged. But it was stemmed by then president George Bush. But the recent attacks are unprovoked. Though the president condemned the attack on Srinivas during his joint address to Congress, there is this feeling that he hasn’t done enough,” said Errol.
 
 He, though, is not too worried as his daughter does not live or work in places with large immigrant populations. “The only worry are her Latino features. I hope she isn’t mistaken for a Mexican and harassed.”
 
 
