THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: In the wake of increasing atrocities reported against children, Kerala State Commission for   (KeSCPCR) has assured its backing for the district child protection units (DCPUs) across the state in child protection and prevention of child abuse. Not only  , increasing atrocities are reported against boys too in some districts and a short film on abuse of boys called `Sparsham’ is planned for release by April first week.

 Statistics indicate that about 31 percent of abuse cases are against boys in Malappuram and it’s about 35 percent across the state, the district child protection officers (DCPOs) told TOI. After the release of a short film against child marriage of girls, now Social Justice Department (SJD) led by   plans to release a 10-minute short film `Sparsham’ focussing on awareness and prevention of abuse of boys, Malappuram DCPO Sameer Machingal told TOI. It is the second film on child protection by SJD.
 
 Led by Malappuram DCPO Sameer Machingal with social worker   as the Project Coordinator, the production work of the film   is complete and after post-production operation, it is planned for release by April first week. Young MLA from Pattambi Muhammed Muhsin has played the lead role of a counsellor in the film `Sparsham’. The production of this film is with the support of LISSAH College at Kaithapoyil in Thamarassery. Scripted by Sharon KPR and directed by R Premkumar, the short film gives an account about the Protection of Children against Sexual Offences ( ) Act and its possible interventions.
 
 Kozhikode and Wayanad DCPO M Sheebha said the government has assured to strengthen DCPUs by increasing the staff strength and ensuring facilities with vehicles for the rescue of child victims of abuse and to ensure their proper rehabilitation. Though increasing number of abuse of girls are reported, a survey indicates that about 35 percent of the boys in the state are abused, she said.
 
 It is with the aim of creating awareness among children, parents and the public that such short films are made and it is planned for screening in schools, colleges, Child Welfare Committees, Gramsabhas at the block and panchayat level and youth clubs, the officials said.
 
 KeSCPCR chairperson Shobha Koshy has assured all possible support to DCPUs in its efforts to prevent atrocities against children and said that a valid document on the age of the child should be the date of birth recorded in school. 
 
