KOLKATA: Temperature, humidity, light, pollution and insects pose threats to artefacts, antiques and heirlooms in private collections in Kolkata. But it is the collectors who often end up causing the most harm, said museologists and conservation experts at an interaction with the city’s private collectors on Monday. 

 “There are many challenges in private conservation. The biggest of them is a collectors’ awareness or the lack of it. When collectors ask domestic help or untrained staff to take care of the collection, they risk causing more harm to them than leaving the items untended. For in their honest attempt to ensure that the objects stay clean, the over-zealous staff may rub, wipe and even scrub an object, unknowingly causing grave harm. If one is passionate about the collection, one must look after it as no one will value it more. Or employ someone who has necessary knowledge on conservatin,” said  , chairman of AusHeritage, a network of Australian cultural heritage management organizations established by the Australian government in 1996.
 
 Owners, Daniel said, also tend to damage their collections by displaying them in drawing rooms where the air-conditioner is switched on. “Exposing collections to varying temperature and humidity causes expansion and contraction that leads to cracks. If one wishes to display items, putting them in a glass case that reduces the variance is a good idea,” said Daniel, who is also the vice-chairman of the International Council of Museums Committee for Conservation. 
 
 Another common mistake by private collectors is the wrong use of lights. High-intensity light on a painting or artefact leads to damage from ultra-violet rays. And open displays are susceptible to insect infestation, something that can be solved with periodic pest control.
 
 With 90-99% of collections of any country in private hands, Daniel’s suggestions are pertinent. As Jayanta Sengupta, director of Indian  , recounted, several private homes in Kolkata had fantastic collections but struggled to manage them. 
 
 “Last year, I saw an exhibition of private collections where Kolkata’s social and cultural history was showcased. The collections were fascinating. But one thought that struck me was how to make private collectors part of a conservation network so they could take better care of their treasures at home. Often, when we inherit something, we do not know how to preserve them. Since private individuals are also custodians of our heritage, we are trying to increase their awareness about preservation,” Sengupta said.
 
 Sekhar Chakraborty, a resident of Prince   who has a collection of Indian flags, including artefacts, manuscripts and newspaper clippings, said the absence of trained hands posed a problem for the likes of him to manage their collection. “There are people who have studied museology, but hardly anyone who knows the science of preservation.” 
 
 René Hoppenbrouwers, director of Stichting Restauratie Atelier Limburg in Maastricht, The Netherlands, said collectors need to undertake preventive conservation to extend the lifetime of objects. At times, there is need for interventive conservation when some damage requires fixing. 
 
 “If you don’t have the skills, don’t do anything. Very often, a poor attempt at restoration does considerable damage. Always seek expert advice. The best thing is to prevent any major damage and that is through preventive conservation,” said Hoppenbrouwers.
 
 
