NASHIK:   continues to claim lives in the city. The   ( ) has registered about 14 deaths due to swine flu in March, as against one in February. There were no swine flu deaths reported in January. In contrast, last year, the city had reported a total of four swine flu deaths. 

 Six of the 14 patients, who have succumbed, were women. Four patients have died in government hospitals, while the remaining 10 in private hospitals. Health officials said three of the 14 deaths from swine flu were from the city, one from Bhagur and other 10 from other rural parts of the district. 
 
 Civil surgeon   said, “The situation is worrying, but people should not panic if he or she have got swine flu as all government health facilities have treatment and medicine available. We have called a meeting of private practitioners to sensitise them regarding the line of treatment. The meeting will be held at the city, taluka and village levels.”
 
 Meanwhile, the tamiflu medicine, which was earlier in the Schedule H category of drugs and available at only certain medical shops, has been categorised as H1 drug and is available in all pharmacies. 
 
 Jagdale said there were only a limited number of medical shops with the permission to sell Schedule H drug. Only one in 10 medical shops at the taluka places would have the permission to sell the crucial drug. 
 
 “However, with its inclusion in the Schedule H1 category, relatives of swine flu patients need to have to come all the way from their respective villages to the taluka or district place to purchase the medicine,” he said. 
 
 Bhushan Patil, assistant commissioner of the Food and Drugs Administration (drugs), Nashik division said, they had instructed all the pharmacists to maintain stock of tamiflu tablets. At the same time, the association of pharmacists have also assured that there would be no shortage of the drug.
 
 In the meantime, the civil surgeon has instructed medical officers of all the rural hospitals and sub civil hospitals to start conducting meetings with private practitioners about the line of treatment for swine flu patients. The district health officer would be instructing the taluka level medical officers to conduct meetings with private practitioners, while in the city limits the meeting will be conducted by the city medical officer. 
 
 A separate isolation ward has been created at the Nashik civil hospital, where six beds in addition to the existing 10 have been put up. 
 
 Experts have attributed the rise in swine flu cases to huge gap in day and night temperatures. Temperature fluctuations enable infections to enter the body easily as it loses its ability to adapt readily to an environment that is constantly changing. Persons with weak immune system or with underlying medical conditions like diabetes and hypertension can develop complications.
 
 In a sudden rise, as many as 16 people died of swine flu in the state in the first 12 days of this month, taking the   death toll to 26 in Maharashtra this year, so far. A total of 101 people tested positive for the disease in the state till March 12.
 
 Nashik district guardian minister Girish Mahajan took stock of the swine flu situation in the district last week and instructed health officials to take all necessary measures to provide timely treatment to patients and control the spread of the disease. Taluka level health officials and also those working at the village levels would be instructed to keep vigil about the spread of swine flu in schools, ashramshalas, hostels, pregnant women and orphanages. 
 
