JAIPUR: As Rajasthan is reeling under a  , youths here are finding it increasingly difficult to get a bride for themselves. However, there's hope for such youths who can purchase a bride at Rs 50,000 to 1 lakh.

 This trend is secretly on the rise in the rural and  , which comprises Kota, Bundi, Jhalawar and Baran. Surprisingly, prosperous communities like Mahashewari, Baniya, Jain and Bhramin are going for such marriages.
 
 These marriages are fixed by `touts' who keep an eye on bachelors who are not getting brides.
 
 They assure the youth and his family of a bride in return for a  .
 
 “A bride is available for Rs 50,000 to 1 lakh,“ said a tout, assuring `no risk' in such alliances.
 
 Nothing is unlawful and illegal in these marriages when the parents of the girl and the boy are ready for it, he claimed.
 
 Most of the brides are purchased from Madhya Pradesh (MP), Jharkhand and Bihar. But, `purchased brides' are also available in Rajasthan, said the tout.
 
 He said that he fixed a number of such deals in Hadouti region. Namichand (name changed), a 42-year-old man of Baniya community , who works as an accountant in a private firm in Bundi could not find a bride in his community . Eventually, he purchased a bride from Jharkhand two years ago. The couple is now leading a happy life with their one-year-old child.
 
 “I wanted a family of my own and when I could not get a bride in my community , I purchased one for Rs 1lakh,“ Namichand said, asking what is wrong in it.
 
 Similarly , Ramesh Sharma (35) (name changed), a teacher in a private school in Bundi, purchased a bride from Madhya Pradesh for a price of Rs 75,000.
 
 While looking for a bride, Ramesh came in contact with touts who arranged his marriage with a young girl from MP, three months ago.
 
 In the rural and semi-urban areas of Kota, Bundi, Baran and Jhalawar districts, youths of prosperous communities are going for `purchased brides'.
 
 “In Bundi, about 20 to 25 welloff families have got purchased brides for their boys,“ said Suresh Chittora, a businessman.
 
 Communities like Baniya, Maheshwari, Jain, Somani, Sogani, etc., are facing a dearth of girls.
 
 Though apprehensions regarding the credibility of `purchased brides' always prevails among the groom's family as in some cases brides have reportedly fled with valuables after a few days of marriage.
 
 Few months ago, a family in Jaipur purchased a bride for Rs 1.25 lakh. But after about three months, she ran away with the jewellery and other valuables, said a lecturer in a government school. Most of the girls come from poverty-ridden villages of MP, UP, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Bihar, because their families need money; and despite the prevalence of the dowry system in the north Indian states, men are ready to pay for a wife.
 
 If treated well and taken care of, they are not likely to run away, said a source.
 
