MUMBAI: The Bombay high court has termed the  's demolition of parts of a “dilapidated“ building illegal for not following proper procedure and depending on a questionable structural condition report, and allowed the tenants to carry out repairs.

 Early this month, civic officials evacuated  , a building in   (East), and demolished some portions, claiming it had tilted and could collapse any time. The BMC wanted to demolish the entire building, prompting the residents to move court.
 
 The high court ruled in favour of the residents as the BMC had not served a notice to them before evacuating them, not following the procedures and took the decision to demolish on basis of questionable structural condition report.
 
 “The court has given the tenants permission to repair the building and left all other rights of the parties open, including the recovery of the repair cost,“ said an advocate appearing for the petitioners.
 
  On September 7, the residents had rushed out of the building late in the evening as BMC officials said it was falling. When nothing happened, the residents protested, saying it was a ploy to bring them out of their houses. Local ward officers claimed they had received a call that a pillar of the building had broken and it had started to tilt.
 
 The residents said the building had been in the same condition for the last few years and someone had resorted to mischief to vacate the premises. They suspected landlord   since he was interested in redeveloping the building, but had avoided taking them into confidence. Parikh had purchased the building few years ago from the original landlord. He is in jail in connection of a case registered at the Tilak Nagar police station.
 
  The BMC called a structural engineer, who suggested demolishing some portions of the building. The BMC removed the balconies of three flats on one side of the building and then stopped as the residents moved court.
 
 After the order on Thursday, the residents celebrated on the premises. “We called a meeting on the weekend to discuss the issue. No one is living in the building, and soon we will go for repair so that everyone can be rehabilitated,“ said resident Ajay Saboo.
 
