A junior naval officer posted at   in   has been sentenced to two years in jail for harassing a Hyderabad girl with obscene messages on  . The victim is the daughter of a former officer of Indian Navy.
 
  Dilip Kumar was 27 and a bachelor when he committed the crime seven years ago. Today, the convict is a father of two kids. He was not immediately taken into custody after the verdict on Friday as he has been given 30 days to appeal before a high court.
  
  This is believed to be one of the earliest reported cases of cybercrime in the country. The online offences have since risen at an alarming rate in the past few years (see box).
  
  The prosecution said that the girl, then 16, ended up adding Kumar to her friend list on Facebook while she was randomly searching for people from Navy since her father is a retired naval officer. The two chatted for nearly two hours in the morning of February 27, 2010, when the girl’s parents were away.
  
  It was proved in the court that Kumar tried to lure the minor into an online relationship. When she realised that he was crossing limits, she objected to his approach. But Kumar turned angry and used abusive language against her and kept sending vulgar messages.
  
  Kumar was arrested after the teenager’s father approached the cybercrime wing of the   (CID). Investigators found that Kumar communicated with the victim from an internet café at Colaba. He was arrested within a week but was out on bail in one day.
  
  Rigorous imprisonment apart, First Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate (Nampally) Moka Suvarna Raju also slapped a fine of Rs 15,000 on Kumar, who was found guilty under various sections of the Information Technology Act 2000 and for outraging the modesty of a woman under the Indian Penal Code.
  
  “Since he has been given the option of appealing in the higher court, we have not yet detained him. If he goes for appeal, we will follow the orders of the upper court. Or else, we will send him to jail on April 30,” Cybercrime Inspector B Ravi Kumar Reddy, who investigated the case, told Mirror.
  
  Eleven prosecution witnesses, including forensic science lab experts, testified in the court. This was also one of the first cases where the police apparently wrote to Facebook to seek the chat history. “During the course of the investigation, it was found that Kumar had mentioned “interested in women” as his interest on his FB profile.
  
  Inspector Reddy said they had written to authorities at INS Shikra twice about the case against Kumar, who holds a position equivalent to the rank of a police sub-inspector. He said they don’t know if Kumar faced any action from the Navy. “Since he has been convicted now, we will again keep the Navy informed. We will not recommend any action, though conviction usually attracts dismissal from service.”
 
