PUNE: Accusing   of providing them with  ,   plagued by frequent   from the city last week asked the airport authorities to intervene.

 There have been at least three instances of flights to different destinations getting delayed in a week, excluding the delay of an Air India flight from Delhi to Pune on Tuesday. Passengers were little satisfied with the airlines’ excuses like weather and technical snags.
 
 “I was in the SpiceJet flight getting late by over three hours on June 21. The same flight to Ahmedabad was delayed again on Saturday for over five hours. The problem is airlines don’t tell the passengers the issue and just keep them waiting, adding to their frustration. It is high time the airport authorities took up the cases of frequent delays,” a businessman told TOI. Tushar Nayak, a passenger of the SpiceJet’s (SG-524) flight mailed to TOI, stating, “On Saturday last week, the flight departed at 1.50am while its original time of departure from Pune was 8.40pm. They served food but it was not good at all.’
 
 A spokespersons of SpiceJet replied, “Flight SG 524 operating Pune-Ahemdabad was delayed due to bad weather conditions at Pune and other centres in its daily rotation, which were beyond the airline’s control. The airline regularly informs passengers about possible delays. The passengers were served refreshments. SpiceJet apologizes for the inconvenience.”
 
 Airport authorities said the airlines generally informed them about delays.
 
 “The airport authorities need to be informed about delays and it is done by the airlines. The exact reasons of delay are not shared with passengers but they are generally informed beforehand. The DGCA keeps a check and prepares report on the performance of all airlines regularly. Also, the civil aviation ministry has AirSewa, a portal, on which people can complain,” an official said.
 
 Aviation experts said the causes of flight delays could be numerous. “Weather plays foul most of the time, particularly in monsoon. As far as passengers not being given proper information, this has to be taken care of as there have been allegations about ground staff being rude, too. ATC congestion is also a big reason,” aviation expert Dhairyashil Vandekar said.
 
 
