PUNE: A candidate contesting the civic polls from the   area recently approached voters with gift packets including saris and cutlery. The voters, however, refused to accept it, and asked for money. 

 The candidate tried to explain that the government’s   exercise since November 2016 has made it difficult to provide   but voters refused to listen.
 
 Many other localities in the city, which generally witness heavy flow of cash during the election season, have also been left dry this time. The candidates contesting from these areas say they are finding it difficult to convince voters with other non-monetary  .
 
 A senior corporator said that each part of the city has its own ‘pay for vote culture’.
 
  In some localities, societies get their work done from corporators, in others, caste and community play a role. In some other areas, voters are pleased with gifts, while some localities demand cash. 
 
 The corporator added that in mid-city areas, candidates contesting against each other have joined hands on this issue and decided that they will not give cash and voters will have to accept only gifts. 
 
 Usually, during elections, candidates receive cash from their ‘well-wishers’. However, this election there is no such help, and both candidates and their well-wishers don’t want any transaction on records. 
 
 There is also fear among candidates that the government may be keeping a close watch on cash transactions in banks, and hence corporators are seeking help from traders, businessmen and developers to provide gifts to voters. 
 
 Some candidates have created gift packets, which include steel plates, silver rings and saris; while others are offering mixers, chairs and furniture. 
 
 Interestingly, a sitting corporator who distributed gift packets to voters during the first round of campaigning faced agitated voters in the second round. They were upset that they had not yet received pattis – a code word for big currency notes. 
 
 Not surprisingly, contesting civic election is a multi-crore affair. Sources said that some candidates have already spent over Rs 2 crore, while others have crossed Rs 1 crore. 
 
 All party corporators in the city agreed that fighting civic elections in Pune is a costly affair. They admitted that one needs to have at least Rs 3 crore to Rs 4 crore for the polls, depending on the locality they are contesting from and the voter profile.
 
 In some pockets where voters are committed to a political line, corporators have to spend less than Rs 1 crore. Corporators also admit that once elected, they “recover” the expenditure using various means. 
 
 According to city activists, cuts in civic work tenders is a major source to recover such expenditure and also to add to politicians’ monetary assets. This directly affects the quality of civic work and, ultimately, citizens suffer.
 
