The second day of   Summer/Resort 2017 will be dedicated to conversations and experiences around sustainable fashion in India. Among these there will stand out a show that has sustainable fashion and inclusivity crafted in the story, one which has a strong and powerful message. Lakmé Fashion Week has collaborated with Kranti – an NGO that empowers girls from Mumbai’s red light areas to be agents of social change (founded by Ms. Robin Chaurasiya, who has worked with US Air Force) and   of Shades of India- one of India’s leading textile labels to present a unique presentation on 2nd February 2017 at LFW.
 
 The vision of this collaboration is to have inclusivity, diversity, gender equality and our handloom/textiles coming together, to create a powerful narrative. The presentation is scheduled for 8:00 pm at The Studio - a space/hall dedicated to conceptual fashion narratives at LFW. The core point of the presentation will have the girls from Kranti celebrate who they are, speak from their heart and share their personal stories through an interactive performance with the audience.
 
 One of the key objectives is to create an empowering experience for everybody in the room and challenge perceptions and norms/prejudices on beauty, dignity and gender that continue to plague our society, something that both Mandeep and Robin touch upon quite strongly through their individual efforts.
 
 Mandeep will showcase her Spring/Summer 2017 collection through the performance by Kranti girls. They will tell their stories while demonstrating their pride and independence in the clothes from Mandeep’s ‘Bagh collection’. The colours evoke the warmth of spring, of early flowers in blossom. White, orchid tint, haze, almond, rose pink, are used with soft gold and silver metallic. Silhouettes are inspired by traditional kurtas and pajamas and by re-interpreting saris with a bohemian look.
 
 Mandeep Nagi, Design Director of   commented, "I won't call myself a fashion designer, my passion for textiles brings forth the style and confidence I wish to share and see in every woman. Therefore have always photographed them on women who may seem ordinary but are absolutely not. Association with Kranti at the most prestigious Lakme Fashion week has been the most enriching experience. I feel honoured to be a part of this. The joy and energy of these girls is infectious."
 
 Jaspreet Chandok, Head of Fashion, IMG Reliance commented, “The Lakmé Fashion Week has really become a forum for having conversations beyond just fashion and we are happy to provide this platform to these brave and courageous women to tell their stories."
  
 
 
