NAGPUR: Considering that summer is the busiest period for railway, an unusual calm prevails at  . Innumerable passengers are stretched and spread around the porch, in the foyer and in the space adjacent to the sleeper class waiting room most of them dozing. 

 Thanks to the recently installed humidifiers on platform no. 1, it’s cool and bearable, and a bit less harsh for those sitting on benches or squatting on the floor. “This platform needs more benches”, says Darshan Pitale who has squeezed himself along with four others on one such fixture. “It’s only when there is ample sitting space that people will stop squatting on the ground,” he adds.
 
 Undoubtedly, these passengers sitting on the floor make movement difficult for others and also add to the filth as they eat, drink, spit and litter. “The dustbins are cleaned not even once in a day at times,” says Vivek Roy, a book vendor who is also adding to the mess as he removes wrappers from the bundle of books and magazine he is setting on the cart. 
 
 “It’s the passengers and those who use the station who make it so dirty. We clean a place and half an hour later it is again littered and dirty,” claims a cleaning staff.
 
 The comfortable sofas in ladies waiting room are being used as beds as those who have found space have stretched on it. A cooler whirring away keeps the place cool.
 
 “Many sleeping here are cleaning staff,” complains Pushpa Nahar, a passenger who is sitting on her suitcase. “They come here to clean the waiting hall and toilets and doze off,” she says bitterly.
 
 A peep into the bathing and toilet area confirms this. Soap strips, shampoo sachets are littered in the bathrooms which are wet. The toilets do not reflect the effort that should have gone in cleaning though bottles of phenol, toilet cleaners and detergent along with brushes are arranged in a corner. 
 
 “Toilets should be the measure for how clean a place is and they are filthy here,” says Tripti Patil, a passenger who was requesting the janitor to get them cleaned.
 
 Shifting of public toilets that were near the ramp has removed the stench that otherwise pervaded the platform agrees another vendor. The tracks too are clean and free of human waste. “But why can’t they remove this abandoned STD booth which makes movement difficult,” he asks. 
 
 The platform is truly unmaintained and unkempt observes another passenger Sushma Thakur. “Some repair and modification work has taken place but this station is not clean. If you ask me I would give it 5/10,” says Abha Bhandari who prefers to squat on an iron beam as she waits for her train.
 
 
