There is no doubt that Bengaluru is the hub of innovations, and a team of students from   has proved this once again with an innovation that will hopefully help put an end to  .

 Students of REVA University’s   — Suraj N, Santhosh Reddy KV and Vinay Kumar P — won a national-level award by  , e-Yantra, in April 2017 for Best Demonstration and Presentation for their project, Sewage Blockage Removal Robot. 
 
  
  
 
 The students were guided by Dr Jagadeeswaran N, associate professor, School of Mechanical Engineering, and Dr Veena KN, associate professor, School of Electronics and Communication Engineering. The inter-disciplinary team of faculty members and students also includes Praveen V Vijapur, assistant professor, School of ECE; Spoorthi KB, Srinivas HA and SV Ullas Kumar, students of the School of ECE; and Harshit M and Akshay GV, students of the School of C&IT.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 The students have developed a robot that will clear sewage blockages. Advanced technology, such as Artificial Intelligence (AI), Computational Intelligence (CI) and Internet of Things (IOT) have been utilized in this project. The robot is placed in drainages, where it opens up and detects blockages. Once a blockage is detected, the material that is causing the obstruction is picked up on a tray and taken out of the manhole, thereby not requiring any human involvement.
 
 
 
 Manjunath M, public relations manager, REVA University, informs us that the team is currently working on the final robot, which will have advanced features. In the meantime, the team has approached MY Hanumanthraj, officer, Bengaluru Water Supply and Sewerage Board (BWSSB), who has shown interest in testing, and possibly using the robot in the future in the city. The BWSSB has also extended support towards the building of the final, updated version. A patent has been filed and the Prime Minister’s office has also been informed, since the project is in line with national initiatives such as Make in India, Swachh Bharat Abhiyan, Digital India and the Smart Cities project.
 
