LAMBI: Aam Aadmi Party's national convener   on Friday claimed that anticipating defeat, Punjab Chief minister   has sought help from "friend" state Congress chief   in dividing anti-incumbency votes.

 Kejriwal also said that after his party wins the Assembly polls, it "does not matter who will be the chief minister", but it will be his "responsibility" to fulfill the promises made by AAP to people of Punjab.
 
 Amrinder's motive to contest from Lambi is to help Badal, he alleged and accused SAD and Congress of "looting" Punjab.
 
 It is confirmed that SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal will lose his deposit from Jalalabad seat, the Delhi Chief Minister claimed while addressing a gathering at Sarawa Bodla village and asked the electorate to "be aware of Congress-SAD's negative propaganda."
 
 Claiming that AAP will form government in Punjab after election reasults are declared on March 11, he said that his party will waive off farmers' debt and assured that recommendations of the Swaminathan Commission will be implemented within three years of government formation.
 
 Pensions for widows, old and physically handicapped will be increased to Rs 2,500. Industry will be installed in large scale to create 25 lakh jobs that will revive the economy of the state. The youth of Punjab will be given 80 per cent quota in jobs, Kejriwal said.
 
 Terming revenue minister Bikram Singh Majithia a "drug peddler", the AAP leader promised to send him behind the bars and give exemplary punishment to people responsible for desecration of a hold book.
 
 Kejriwal addressed rallies at the various villages of Sarawa Bodla, Burj Sidhwan, Lambi, Killianwali, Fullu Khera here in favour of party candidate Jarnail Singh.
 
 Singh said AAP is committed to provide peaceful and corruption-free environment in Punjab.
 
 Asserting that AAP will end 'gundaraj' of the Badal family, he said "dealers" of the Badals, Dyal Singh Kolianwali and Tajinder Singh Middukhera, will be sent to jail for their wrongdoings.
 
 Singh assured that the face of Lambi will be change and rule of people will prevail.
 
 Lambi is witnessing a triangular contest between Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal, Punjab Congress chief Amarinder Singh and journalist-turned-politician Jarnail Singh of (AAP).
 
