PATNA: The JD(U)-BJP coalition which reigned in Bihar for eight years before collapsing in 2013 was restored to office on Thursday, with 
  and 
  regaining their positions as chief minister and deputy CM.

 The two were sworn in by West Bengal governor  , who is holding charge of Bihar, capping a run of fast-paced, dramatic events which saw Nitish break away from the Lalu Prasad-led RJD and Congress to return to  .
 
 Nitish will expand his ministry after Friday when he is scheduled to take the floor test. In his letter to the governor, Nitish claimed the support of 132 MLAs, including 71 of JD(U) and 53 of   in the 243-member House. NDA allies LJP and RLSP have two MLAs each, and Hindustani Awam Morcha-Secular (HAM-S) has one.
 
 One of the BJP MLAs,  , will not be able to vote as he is undergoing treatment in Delhi, but Nitish also has the support of four independents. RJD, Congress and CPI (ML) have 110 MLAs and are likely to disrupt the proceedings.
 
 NDA’s revival also marks Sushil Modi’s return to prominence after a spell where he appeared to have been pushed to the sidelines after BJP’s embarrassing defeat in the 2015 polls. A large part of the blame for the debacle fell on   who, while easily the most prominent party leader, has always been resented by a powerful faction in the party.
 
 The reconstitution of the state unit resulted in marginalisation of many of his loyalists, reinforcing the perception of his diminution.
 
 However, SuMo, as he is known, clawed back into the game after doggedly pursuing the leads on the corruption charges against the clan of RJD boss  . 
 
 He teamed up with an intrepid Delhi-based chartered accountant to dig up documents on the maze of transactions involving shell companies which resulted in Lalu’s kin, especially his favourite son and former deputy CM 
  , allegedly acquiring huge properties even when he had no known source of income.
 
 The meticulous research, sources said, trained the spotlight on Tejashwi’s alleged corruption, leading an embarrassed Nitish to insist that Lalu’s son came clean on the the allegations. 
 
 This set in motion a sequence of events which resulted in the regime change, in accordance with the script worked out by Prime Minister   and Nitish.
 
 His appointment as deputy CM shows that SuMo has been honourably rehabilitated and should quell the doubts which have grown about his primacy in BJP. “The CM will present a one-line proposal before the House to seek its confidence vote,” assembly Speaker Vijay Kumar Choudhary said.
 
