At some point during an interview, every resident of the city's   brings up the walls. "You can't hammer a nail into them, they're so thick," says one resident. "Even drill machines break," boasts another. It's a recurring theme meant to demonstrate the superior quality of British-era construction compared to the newly-built   that have sprung up across the city.

 In August last year, Maharashtra Housing Area Development Authority (MHADA) was appointed as the nodal agency for the redevelopment of BDD Chawls in Worli, Naigaon, NM Joshi Marg and Sewri -- a total of 207 buildings, spanning 93 acres and housing 16,545 legal tenants and 2,342 illegal stalls and slums. Each tenant will be entitled to 500sqft though many are unsure if this applies to shops and illegal encroachments.
 
 In fact, residents are confused about many things. Most have never seen a plan of the new development, have no information about the size or location of the transit accommodations, and are terrified they won't be able to afford the high outgoings in a tall tower. Currently, they pay between Rs 16-30 as rent, which includes water for each house and electricity for the common areas. They also have little faith in MHADA, citing dozens of pending projects, rife corruption and poor construction quality.
 
 "On what basis did this bhoomipujan happen?" asks Sanjay Gangar, who owns a masala store in the Worli chawl, referring to the recent launch of the redevelopment scheme in the presence of the chief minister. He adds that nothing has been put in writing and all information is being gleaned from often-contradictory news reports.
 
 Under a new section in the Development Control Regulations, introduced exclusively for BDD Chawls, residents' consent isn't required for redevelopment projects. This has Raju Waghmare of Akhil BDD Chawl Rahiwashi Mahasangh up in arms. He argues that if consent and a legal contract are mandatory for slums, private chawls and buildings, BDD Chawls should not be an exception. "They have taken away our fundamental rights," says Waghmare, a resident of the Naigaon complex.
 
 "Consent is required when you take somebody else's property ," explains   CEO SS Zende. "But this is government land, government buildings and government tenants, who are currently living in 160sqft without a toilet and bathroom. They are getting a 500sqft, 2 BHK flat." He promises that legal contracts will be signed with tenants before they are shifted and claims that he conducted public meetings to explain the government's plans. "We have been as transparent as possible," he says, adding that "disgruntled developers with vested interests" are responsible for fanning the fears of a small fraction of residents.
 
 It's true that residents' associations have harbored the hope of self-development from the 1990s. At the time, they claim, MHADA was unwilling to take up the redevelopment of all four complexes as they wouldn't be able to recover their expenses so residents decided to redevelop the property with CM Sharad Pawar's blessing. Armed with a master plan, created by London architect Quiter Kim, and with in-principle funding of Rs 5,500 crore from the World Bank and India's Housing and Urban Development Corporation (HUDCO), they got a cabinet sanction in 1999. But before the letter of intent was issued, the government changed. "We have put time, money and energy into this project," says Ajay Nakashe, former resident of Worli's BDD Chawl and president of Akhil BDD Chawl Bhadekaru Mahasangh. " And without having a discussion with us, they appoint MHADA and ask them to go ahead with the tenders."
 
 The global tendering process, which ended with the Shapoorji Pallonji Group winning the NM Joshi Marg complex and Larsen & Toubro being awarded the Naigaon chawls, is widely regarded with suspicion by residents. They claim there weren't enough bidders and liken it to the 2G spectrum scam. Tensions are running so high that the night before the 'bhoomipujan', residents were rounded up by police and kept in detention for the duration of the ceremony .
 
 Shantabai Rokde, an 80-year-old resident of a Worli chawl, says her parents helped build the chawl next door in the 1920s. Today, her great grandchildren play 'vitti dandu' and `kho kho' in the wide passageways. Built by the Bombay Development Directorate (BDD) as low-cost housing for mill workers, these poky tenements spill out into sprawling community spaces. On the day we visited, for instance, 'Prachi & Prashant' were hosting a 'haldi' in the chawl corridor.
 
 People fear that redevelopment will gobble up open spaces and crunch different castes and religions together. Over the years, the occupants -- a mix of Maharashtrians, South Indians, Dalits and Muslims -- have self-segregated. Worli's Chawl No 100, for instance, houses only Muslims and the call to prayer echoes in its green-blue corridors.
 
 Resident Mohammed Sheikh, can't accept that these "strong" buildings need to be torn down. "It's all just political tamasha," he says. His 11-year-old grandson interjects, "Many uncles talk about redevelopment, then the government changes and everything stops."
 
 
