Ahmedabad: Dr  , a British author and historian, has been appointed the first   of Ahmedabad University’s School of Arts and Sciences. French is an expert on South Asian studies and is known for his works on Indian history and politics. His biography of Nobel laureate V S Naipaul is critically acclaimed.

 French will be responsible for building divisions of academic disciplines of humanities and languages, social sciences, mathematical and physical sciences, biological and life sciences, and performing and visual arts. French’s appointment aims to usher in a new system of interdisciplinary, collaborative, and experiential learning using humanities to develop critical thinking and deeper understanding of rapidly changing technology, sciences, society, and human behaviour.
 
 “Dr French brings a deep concern for finding a common ground between the arts and sciences,” said AU vice-chancellor Pankaj Chandra. “As someone who knows India well, he brings multiple sensibilities that that will help us craft unique research and learning domains. We were looking for someone who can re-imagine what a 21st century school of arts and sciences should be.”
 
 In a press release Dr French said, “Professor Chandra and his team are doing something new and different in global education. An interdisciplinary approach to the arts and sciences, and a wide-ranging intellectual engagement between academic disciplines will have direct benefits for Indian students. I am delighted to be a part of the building of a dynamic world-class institution.”
 
 French’s books include “Younghusband: The Last Great Imperial Adventurer”; “Liberty or Death: India’s Journey to Independence and Division”; “Tibet: A Personal History of a Lost Land”; “The World is What it is: The Authorized Biography of V S Naipaul”; and “India: A Portrait”. French is writing the authorized biography of Nobel laureate  . His work has won several awards, including the Somerset Maugham Award, the   of Literature WH Heinemann Prize, the Sunday Times Young Writer of the Year Award, the Hawthornden Prize, and the US National Book Critics Circle Award. 
 
 
