BENGALURU: A head constable at the   moonlights as a farmer in his village in Kanakapura and has accepted a grant of land from the government. The case has landed up in  .

 A complaint by a close relative has exposed the ‘dual life’ of a police head constable. The head constable attached to Jayanagar police station had allegedly taken another name and identity in a village in Kanakapura to get a land grant from the government.
 
 The High Court on Wednesday disposed the case saying the complainant is at liberty to initiate criminal proceedings by filing a complaint with the jurisdictional magistrate.
 
 Poojary Ramaiah of Karikaldoddi village, Kanakapura, approached the high Court with a petition late last year. He alleged that his nephew Chandra­iah, working as a police head constable in a police station in Bengaluru had committed ‘serious fraud’.
 
 Ramaiah alleged that Chandraiah, under the false name of Srinivasaiah, had applied for grant of land from the government. The government is said to have sanctioned one acre 20 guntas of land to ‘Srinivasaiah’ – none other than Chandraiah himself.
 
 
 
 
 Ramaiah claimed in his petition before the High Court that Srinivasaiah was none other than his own nephew Chandraiah. He produced the school certificate and police records of Chandraiah to prove his point before the court.
 
 Ramaiah has claimed in the petition that he realised Chandraiah was using dual identities after the latter filed a case for injunction against him towards the 1 acre 20 guntas land. The case was filed in the name of ‘Srinivasaiah’ and also signed as ‘Srinivasaiah’. The suit filed by Srinivasaiah was ruled in his favour by the lower court.
 
 A vengeful Ramaiah then filed complaints with the local authorities against Chandraiah-Srinivasaiah. Alleging that the local authorities did not take action against his nephew, Ramaiah filed the petition in the HC. He also charged Chandraiah of presenting himself as Srinivasaiah to obtain an agricultural grant.
 
 Ramaiah’s vengeance against Chandraiah also saw him approach the Lokayukta. He had complained to the Lokayukta that the police were not taking action on his complaint. This case too is pending.
 
 The High Court on Wednesday disposed Ramaiah’s petition. But the fight between the uncle and the double-role nephew seems to be far from over with the court telling Ramaiah that he can initiate criminal proceedings against Chandraiah.
 
