Nagpur: Categorically denying a poacher’s anticipatory bail, the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court stressed on maintaining prey base of tigers in forests and its entire ecosystem for mankind’s survival. Petitioner Vasanta Rathod and his accomplices were accused of killing a barking deer, a scheduled-III animal at Umarkhed of the Nanded Road. They are facing prosecution under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. “The animal which has been prima facie poached is an endangered species of herbivores and constitutes a significant part of prey base of larger predators, including tiger. Healthier the prey base, better is health of predators. If animals like tiger are healthier, higher is the degree of pristine condition of forest ecosystem, which is so essential for survival of mankind,” a single-judge bench of justice Sunil Shukre said. Before ruling out any relief, the court pointed out that crime committed in killing of a scheduled animal was of very serious nature. “In order to enable forest officials to make a detailed probe into all angles of the crime, it may not be in the interest of society that this court exercises its discretion under Section 438 of the CrPC in petitioner’s favour.” While on patrolling duty, the forest officials came across petitioner and his two accomplices carrying two gunny bags. Suspecting some forest produce or contraband, they accosted the accused. However, they only managed to nab Dinesh Jadhav while the other two, including Rathod, managed to escape from the spot. On searching, they found two carcass of barking deer and also recovered animal traps. On interrogation, the arrested accused confessed on how they conducted entire operation and killed the endangered animal. The forest officials came to conclusion that killing was a part of organized crime of poaching endangered species of a wild animals. Subsequently, offences were registered against all three and further investigations started. The petitioner then approached HC contending that he had got nothing to do with the crime as he was not present at the spot.  While citing co-accused’s statement, justice Shukre noted that he named petitioner’s involvement in the offence in detail. “When the material collected during investigation is considered as a whole, one is convinced that crime has been prima facie committed in an organized manner with meticulous planning. It gives rise to the possibility of crime having larger ramifications. Therefore, a detailed investigation into such a crime is necessary.” He added that such an investigation wouldn’t be possible without there being any inquisitorial petitioner’s interrogation which can occur only when his custody is obtained by the forest officials. “It’s the fact that petitioner was earlier prosecuted for yet another wildlife offence. He may have been acquitted, but his involvement on previous occasion is sufficient to indicate his propensity. It gives rise to a reasonable apprehension that if released on bail, he’s likely to do something which may once again involve him one way or other in similar crime,” the judge stated, before dismissing his case. 