MUMBAI: Sahar police on Thursday arrested two   resident for flying to   with a   tourist and work visa. Immigration officials at Sharjah seized boarding pass and   from the duo—Mohammed Rafique (29) and Abdul Hafeez (25)—after landing their and deported them back to Mumbai. The duo flyer has paid Rs80,000 for the job of carpenter and tailor in Sharjah. However, they were unaware that all the documents, except their passports, was fake.

 Rafique and Hafeez flew to Sharjah with a hope of getting a job that will help them to give a good lifestyle to their family members in Lucknow. They got in touch with the agent in Lucknow who provided the duo with appointment letters and visas. “The two managed to clear the immigration check in Mumbai. But was caught at Sharjah when officials there found out that they travelled on tourist visa and after landing there showed the work visa. They used fake visas to reach Sharjah,” said Sahar police senior inspector BT Mukhedkar.
 
 Sub-inspector Rajshri Dudale said they are searching for the agent who provided the duo with fake visas and job call letter. “The two said that the agents were known to them and assured them with a job. However the officials at Sharjah found out after they landed there that the job offer letter was fake after confirmed it with the respective companies where Rafique was supposedly offered carpenter’s job and Hafeez with tailoring work,” said Dudale.
 
 Rafique and Hafeez has been booked under the Indian Penal Code sections 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 465 (forgery), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating) and 471 (using as genuine a forged document or electronic record). The two are in police custody till May 22.
 
 On March 22, a 27-year-old Uttaranchal man’s attempt to hide his work visa and fly with a fake tourist visa has landed him in jail. Officials stopped Gabbar Singh, a school dropout, at the city’s international airport when he produced his   for immigration check and found two visas stamped in his passport. The immigration officials handed him to the Sahar police, after finding Singh tried to skip getting the Protector of Emigrants (PoE) clearance before flying to Gulf nation to work as a worker in that country.
 
