SECUNDERABAD: The government's ambitious Strategic Road Development Plan (SRDP) to ease traffic in several areas of the city faces hurdles with the traders in   deciding to oppose tooth and nail the proposed construction of an 11.5 km elevated skyway -from Jubilee Bus Station (JBS) to Air Force Station, Hakimpet. Another skyway from Paradise to Bowenpally forms part of the SRDP .A couple of days ago, the ro ads and buildings (R&B) department began the process of marking the properties between   towards Karkhana and Trimulgherry that are to be acquired for the skyway . This touched a raw nerve with the traders whose properties face bulldozers. They have formed an organistaion called `Owners of Commercial Buildings on the Road from Secunderabad Club to Trimulgherry' to fight the state government's move.

 According to the detailed project report (DPR), a 11.5-km elevated skyway has been proposed on State Highway-1 (Rajiv Rahadari) connecting Tivoli Junction, Karkhana, Trimulgherry , Alwal and Air Force Station, Hakimpet. As many as 400 commercial properties on both sides of the stretch will be affected as per a survey conducted by officials of the   (state wing), R&B department, Defence Estate Office, Telangana and AP Circle, and Secunderabad Cantonment Board. The R&B authorities have marked several properties, including the compound wall of Secunderabad Club, Kendriaya Vidyalaya, Picket (opposite: Secunderabad Club) and several private properties and commercial establishments like banks, shopping malls, grocery shops, etc., on the stretch.
 
 On Wednesday , nearly 200 traders, whose properties have been marked, met Malkajgiri   member Ch Malla Reddy and Secunderabad Can tonment MLA G Sayanna and demanded that the width of the proposed project be restricted to save their buildings. They also met the R&B minister Tummala Nageswara Rao and discussed the issue. He said he would resolve the same.
 
 “The proposed expressway will affect nearly 400 to 500 commercial properties. We have spent lakhs of rupees over a period of 30 years to construct them. Almost all the properties would be affected in case the ro ad is widened to 200 feet (100 feet on both sides),“ K Ramesh, the owner of a commercial establishments told TOI.
 
 The project would also rob thousands of employees working in commercial establishments on the stretch of their livelihood. The properties located in a densely populated area command a very high commercial value, Ramesh said.
 
 Another property owner wondered why government needs 200 feet for an expressway when a similar project in the city -PVNR Expressway -has been built on 100-feet road. This would result in disastrous for owners of properties, he said and demanded that the project be restricted to less than 100 feet. The state has sanctioned `2,000 crore (` `1,300 crore for construction and `700 crore for compensation to property owners). R&B department will need to acquire nearly 90 acres of defence, cantonment and private land, said an official.
 
 Survey done, land acquisition to start
 
 Sources in the R&B (NH-State Wing) department told TOI that a survey had been completed and land acquisition would begin soon in Secunderabad Cantonment for widening the road to 200 feet for the proposed skyway. Currently, the width of the stretch between JBS and AFS, Hakimpet, is 40-60 feet , said the official. The process of marking affected properties will be completed in a week's time, said the R&B official.
 
