The internet is abuzz with the debate over AR  's   concert in Wembley, London, after many who prefer listening to Hindi songs walked out of it halfway, saying that he performed more Tamil songs than Bollywood tracks. And some of them, who were unhappy, are even demanding that the organisers refund their ticket money. How would you have reacted, if you were there among the audience and didn't really enjoy a concert? While you could tweetpost your views on our pages and Twitter handle @ChennaiTimesTOI, here is what a few Chennaiites, including some musicians, we spoke to, told us...

 
 I don't know if there is any reason to add fuel to the fire by talking about it. But I would like to mention about a Rahman concert that happened way back in 2000 in north America. It was a four-city tour and I was also a part of it. I clearly remember the Toronto concert. There were around 30,000 people and out of them, at least 28,000 of them were Sri Lankan Tamilians and we had a huge list of Hindi songs. And the compèring was also mostly in Hindi. Many of the Sri Lankan Tamilians don't understand a word of Hindi, but they still enjoyed the concert. Music is beyond language.Rahman scored music in several languages and therefore, when you go for a Rahman concert, you can't expect him to perform just Bollywood numbers.Rahman can't be confined just to Bollywood or  , he's beyond all that. What's important is to respect music, be it in whatever language it is.
 
  
  
 
 
 I think it's been blown out of proportion.But my question is `Will Tamil-speaking audience sit through an entire concert if it has 80% Hindi songs?'. Definitely not. A good number of them will walk out of the concert. It happens if it doesn't resonate well with the audience. Even when you go for a film, if you don't find it interesting, won't you walk out of it midway? The same happened at this concert also. There's nothing wrong in it, if people walked out of the concert half way through after not finding it interesting to them. That's their personal choice. On the other hand, those who walked out shouldn't ask for a refund, because the concert was titled Netru Indru Naalai. Reading the title, they should have realised that it would be a concert in Tamil and shouldn't even have come for it, in the first place.
 
  
  
 
 
 It was a really petty thing to do. I don't know if these people are real connoisseurs of music. Take food or art connoisseurs -they are ready to experience everything.Music is not bound by language, it is the content you appreciate. But I wonder why these people confine music to language? When I write songs, I usually write in English. Of late, I have begun to explore Hindi and Tamil, too. Each language has its own beauty . It is a mere cliche then when you say `music is beyond language'. For me, lan guage is only one aspect of music. And that's what people need to understand. And when the show has been titled Netru Indru Naalai, he could have even done a 100% Tamil show. Several international musicians, say for instance Metallica or Norah Jones, per form new material that people haven't even heard of.
 
 
 
 If I were in a foreign country, I would be happy to see anybody whom I can relate to from my own country . I would go simply to connect with my culture and something that I am familiar with.Musicians are sensitive when they perform at concerts. When I am doing a concert in Delhi, 80% would be Hindi. But in Chennai, I would opt for more Tamil songs. When you are performing overseas, there is a mixed crowd there. It is mandatory to give everything. I don't understand why people are defining the artiste's expression? 
 
 You do a show called Indian Idol and get participants from all over the country to perform in Hindi. But that's not the case with American Idol.If that's your choice, then why listen to Bruno Mars or Justin Bieber? You can accept something that is so alien to your culture, but shame someone who is from the same culture as yours. It just shows the narrow-mindedness of people. There is a reason why Indian stereotypes are still shown by stand-ups. Because, even in 2017, you get to see these petty things.
 
  
  
 
 
 First of all, the name of the show was   and I think that gives a fair idea about the show. So, they should have gone prepared for it. It was really silly of them to say that they faced an unfair experience because he sang more Tamil songs than Hindi. Moreover, I am more of a purist when it comes to my choice of music or the singers I like or the people I look up to. I love AR Rahman sir entirely for his music. Even if he were to sing a Chinese song, I would gladly go and listen to it. It doesn't matter what the name of the concert is or what language he sings in. I do admit that audi ence have expec tations. What happened was very insulting to the great musi cian, his music and his legacy, when you talk about returning money . That is just stooping really low, for the kind of effort he has put into his music for the past 20 years. He has been rev olutionising music and has done several internation al tours. I think their love for him and his music was not pure, which is very sad.
 
 
 
 
 Music has no language or boundaries, and if this is the actual reason people walked out of a concert, then it reflects sadly on their taste. When it comes to art and its aesthetics, understanding and appreciating it will only enrich our own lives, no matter what our cultural roots are. By doing a walkout, they have lost experiencing a good music session.
 
  
  
 
