MUMBAI: Bolstered by the Centre’s reiteration that  , the  , a consumer organisation, is set to write to the Union and state governments urging them to ensure restaurants and hotels do not add “tip” to the bill while giving it to customers.

 “If the service charge is added to the bill, it puts the customers in an awkward position (to ask it to be removed),”  , chairman of the Panchayat, said. Tip should be discretionary and voluntary as stressed by the government, he added. 
 
 Consumer activists are already fighting against double taxation at eateries—calculating service tax on the bill amount after VAT is added. 
 
 Abhinav Gupte, a Dadar resident, said, “On a food bill of Rs 1,000, taxes add up to extra Rs 191 and a service charge another Rs 100 (10%). So we have to pay roughly around Rs 300 extra.” Meanwhile, some consumers want uniformity in service charge. “Some restaurants levy up to 20% service charge. It’s unfair,” Saurish Mujumdar, a Mahim resident, said adding that many restaurants do not mention service charge on their menu cards.
 
 Hoteliers say the service charge in Mumbai is on an average 10% and that too on the food bill, before service tax is added. Meanwhile, the Federation of Hotels and Restaurants Associations of India said hotel that levy service charge display it prominently on the menu and thereafter, it is the choice of customers to patronise the restaurant or not. The courts have upheld restaurants’ right to levy service charge, it pointed out.
 
 Ansh Seth, co-founder & director,   in Andheri, said, “Service charge is not a ‘hidden’ charge. It is clearly mentioned on our menus and the customer is well aware of it while placing the order. At Brewbot, we share 80% of the service charge with our staff and 20% is kept for breakages (for which customers are not charged). Also, in case of an unhappy customer, we also provide discounts or complimentary dishes or beverages, which work out to more than the service charge levied.”
 
 Mihir Desai, co-owner, of   that owns The Bar Stock Exchange, Soi Kitchen and Mr. Baozi, said, “Customers cannot deny after using your services. They should be well informed before ordering that we levy service charge. Charging it is not wrong but it should be mentioned on menu cards so that if customers don't wish to pay they won’t avail of those services.”
 
 — With inputs from Mohua Das 
 
 
