NEW DELHI: The BJP has withheld names of candidates for constituencies from where kin of home minister  , ex-chief minister   and senior party leader Hukum Singh are claimants while announcing the first list of 149 candidates for the UP assembly polls.
 
  The first list included candidates for 131 off 140 assembly segments going to polls in the first two phases, on February 11& 15 and 16 other MLAs from other regions of the state. Candidates for nine seats in the first two phases have been held back.
  
  According to sources, Sahibabad, Kairana, Debai and Barhapur are from where kin of senior leaders are seeking tickets. The nominations were also withheld for Noida, won by Union minister Mahesh Sharma in 2012. Sharma is considered close to BJP president Amit Shah.
  
  The list for consideration presented before BJP’s central election committee late on Sunday night, which ET had previewed, had Rajnath Singh’s son Pankaj Singh’s name in first priority. Rajasthan governor Kalyan Singh’s grandson was listed as first preference candidate from Debai assembly segment.
  
  Likewise, the Moradabad MP was demanding ticket for his son from the Barhapur assembly segment. Kairana Lok Sabha MP Hukum Singh’s daughter was second preference candidate for the assembly seat with the same name, presented to the CEC.
  
  In what could be a controversial decision, the BJP also announced candidature of former national OBC Morcha president   from Tundla assembly constituency reserved for Scheduled Castes.
  
  Baghel did not respond to ET’s repeated attempts to find how he could be eligible for the reserved seat.
  
  
 
  
  The BJP also decided to allow national secretary Shrikant Sharma to have his electoral debut in state politics by fielding him in Mathura.
  
  The BJP also announced candidates for 64 of 70 seats for Uttarakhand where it has renominated all MLAs and rewarded Congress’ rebel MLAs with the exception of former chief minister Vijay Bahuguna, whose son has been given the ticket instead. The BJP also announced remaining six candidates for Punjab. The meeting for candidate selection took place late Sunday night. Another meeting is slated for Tuesday for the remaining tickets from  . 
