NOIDA: A day after a   was found dead under mysterious circumstances in   of  , yet another 18-year-old was found dead in Avenue I, L Tower, in the same society. The dead has been identified as Dipali Chauhan (18), an original resident of Assam. She worked as a maid at the 24th floor of the high-rise apartment and also lived with the owner.

 The owner, who did not wish to be named, said he had gone to his Delhi office while his wife was at her Noida office. “My mother and daughter were at home in the evening. Around 6.30pm, a photo of a maid started circulating in our residents’   group. She was found on the ground floor with some head injuries. I immediately identified her because she was working with us for nearly one and a half years,” he said.
 
 The local residents had already gathered at the spot and called police and ambulance. The woman was rushed to district hospital where she was brought dead. The body was sent for postmortem and the report is awaited.
 
 The police said that prima facie it seemed the woman committed suicide by jumping off the 24th floor. Rakesh Kumar, circle officer, Greater Noida III, said the police team found the maid’s slippers on the 24th floor. “We do not see a correlation between the two deaths, except that both were maids. On Thursday’s incident, the medical reports suggested only antemortem injuries due to fall. The report did not indicate anything else,” he said.
 
 The residents expressed concern over Friday’s death as only a day earlier Nishu (18) was found dead under similar cirumstances. Her body was found with head injuries on the ground floor in Galaxy North Avenue Apartment in Gaur City. The police had found a pair of her slippers on the 12th floor and suspected she jumped off that floor.
 
 Himanshu, a local resident, said it can’t be a mere coincidence as two maids died in two days. “The residents are worried about safety and security. The police and the developers should beef up the security of residents and workers,” he said.
 
 Manoj Gaur, MD of Gaursons India Ltd, said the two incidents are separate. “The Galaxy North Avenue Apartment, where a maid mysteriously died on Thursday, has been developed by another developer. The Avenue 1 is developed by Gaursons. The residents have been living there for almost two years. We have installed all safety measures and the CCTV cameras on the premises. It is now the police’s duty to investigate the matter and find out how it took place,” he said.
 
 
