CUTTACK: The   on Friday issued show cause notice to the CBI asking it to reply as why the agency sleuths entered the house of sitting HC judge Justice CR Dash on September 19 late night. Division bench of Chief Justice Vineet Saran and Justice B R Sarangi has also issued notices to state government and Centre on the matter.

 The direction came in response to a public interest litigation filed by   seeking a judicial inquiry into the incident and stringent action against the erring CBI officials, who visited Justice Dash’s official residence for conducting raid after mistaking him for a former high court judge I M Quddusi.
 
 “Hearing the PIL, the court has asked CBI and other involved parties to present the reason behind the move. The court has clearly asked CBI to answer as with whose permission it had visited the house of a sitting judge,” said secretary of bar association,  . The next hearing of the case will be held on October 16
 
 After the high court’s direction, the bar association that was on cease work on the issue since Wednesday suspended its stir. After two days, normalcy returned in high court and lower courts. Describing the act of CBI as an attack on judiciary, the bar association has been firm on its demand of judicial inquiry into the incident.
 
 “As per guideline, the CBI should have verified the address and informed the chief justice before entering into a sitting judge’s house. But throwing norms to wind, the CBI showed hooliganism in the case,” added Behura. The lawyers said they will hold a meeting over the matter on October 19 to decide their further course of action.
 
 Meanwhile, the   have registered a trespassing case against CBI and started its probe. The police had sought details of the officers who had visited Justice Dash’s house from CBI. The case has been registered against sections 448 (house trespass), 353 (criminal force to deter public servant from discharging duty), 511 (punishment for attempting to commit offences punishable with imprisonment for life) and 34 of IPC 
 
 In a related development, BJD MP Tathagata Satpathy has accused the CBI of playing a smart game and trying to give Odisha a bad name. The MP through his tweets questioned as why retired judge Qudussi, who was arrested by the CBI from his Delhi residence in connection with MCI scam, was being referred as a judge of Odisha, even though he retired from   High Court. EOM
 
