KOZHIKODE: Amidst reports of law violations by many self-financing institutions, an inquiry conducted by the   has unravelled startling lapses in the way self-financing college teachers are conducting evaluation of   of students.

 The inquiry into the mass failure of around 200 private BCom students in the second semester examination held in 2016 has revealed that the teacher of a self-financing college in Malappuram district, who had been assigned the answer scripts by the varsity, had ‘outsourced’ the evaluation of papers to a teacher teaching a different subject.
 
 “On inquiry we found that the teacher of the commerce department of the college had outsourced half of the 800 answer scripts assigned to him to a teacher of the economics department. The flawed evaluation by the two teachers were responsible for the mass failure of students,” said Syndicate member K M Nazeer, who was a member of the inquiry committee.
 
 The committee has recommended blacklisting the teacher of the commerce department and has asked the examination standing committee to consider banning him from being appointed as teacher in any of the affiliated colleges under the varsity.
 
 The varsity had received complaints from around 200 students that they had failed due to discrepancies in the evaluation process.
 
 “During the hearing the teacher admitted that he had given half of the BCom papers to a teacher of the economics department,” said Nazeer, adding that the attempts by the varsity to trace the economics teacher failed as he had left the job and has gone to Gulf.
 
 The committee also found that the teacher was not part of the list of examiners and he had been allotted answer scripts by the Pareeksha Bhavan after he approached the varsity expressing willingness to take up the evaluation work.
 
 The varsity had over the years diluted the eligibility for examiners with the academic council reducing the teaching experience of examiners from two years to one year due to scarcity of examiners.
 
 “Currently the varsity has no mechanism to check the qualification or academic credentials of teachers from self-financing colleges who take up evaluation duty. We are planning to make a list of examiners from among the retired teachers of regular colleges to address the shortage of examiners,” said Syndicate member P Sivadasan.
 
