KOCHI: The state is facing threat of spread of communicable diseases even before the onset of monsoon. The number of dengue, chikungunya, leptospirosis and typhoid cases in the first four months of this year has gone up when compared to the numbers reported in the same period for the past five years.

 Capital city of Thiruvananthapuram is leading the tally when it comes to diseases like dengue, chikungunya and leptospirosis. Waterborne diseases like diarrhoea and hepatitis B are more prevalent in northern districts like   and  .“Cooperation from the local bodies and the public is the key in controlling spread of communicable diseases,“ said Dr  , additional director of health services (public health).“Proper management of waste would help reduce the number of vectorborne diseases like dengue and chikungunya. This requires effort from local bodies and the public. Unfortunately, most people don't care about treating the waste generated at source,“ Reena said.
 
 The Thiruvananthapuram corporation, which witnessed a spurt in diseases like dengue, chikungunya and leptospirosis, was late in initiating steps to control them. “We had alerted them months ago. We even held meeting with mayor. But, the officials started field work only by mid-May,“ an official with health department said.
 
 According to health department officials, one of the reasons for the increase in the number of dengue cases was the shortage of water due to drought-like conditions. “Most wells in the state went dry this summer. So, many people stored drinking water in buckets or other utensils which became breeding ground for mosquitoes,“ Reena said.
 
 In 2016, the number of dengue cases in the first four months was around 1,400. This year it went up to 2,266 during the same period. “Vast majority of cases go unreported. In past few months, many of the private hospitals and labs have started to share details with the government. Though the public perceives the increase in the number of communicable disease as health department's failure, we wouldn't shy away from reporting such cases. We can chart out measures to check and prevent such diseases if we get a real picture,“ Reena said.
 
 Acute diarrheal diseases (ADD) are being reported from districts like Malappuram, Wayanad and Kasaragod. “Diarrhea is widely reported from coastal areas.   and typhoid are also high in the districts like Malappuram, Wayanad and  ,“ said Dr Manjula Bhai, assistant director, health services.
 
 In Wayanad, the district health department has sought the support of other departments to check the outbreak of communicable diseases. This year, around 310 cases of hepatitis A have been reported from the district so far. The number of dengue cases reported from the district till date is 30.According to health department, coliform bacteria were found in water samples collected from many areas in the district.
 
 Health department officials who conducted surprise inspections in eateries in Ernakulam district said water provided by many of them are not safe.“Following detection of a hepatitis outbreak among the students of National University of Advanced Legal Studies and Government Medical College, Ernakulam, we conducted inspections on wayside eateries in Kalamassery area. We found that the water supplied in the eateries is contaminated. In Nellikuzhi near Kothamangalam, around 400 cases of hepatitis A were detected a few months ago. Later, it was found that those who had food from a particular hotel had contracted the disease,“ a health department official said.
 
