MARGAO: Margao Municipal Council ( ) has found itself in a rather piquant situation regarding the recovery of dues from the South Goa Planning and Development Authority ( ).

 While SGPDA owes a huge sum of money to MMC towards garbage collection charges over the years, a ‘huge’ bill raised by SGPDA recently towards MMC hiring its ground for feast fairs and other events has raised the hackles of the council.
 
 MMC chairperson Babita Angle Prabhudessai on Tuesday convened a meeting of both the bodies in a bid to find an “amicable solution” over the settlement of the dues. SGPDA’s member secretary   and MMC’s chief officer Agnelo Fernandes were among those who participated in the deliberations. Interestingly, both SGPDA and MMC are now under the sway of the Goa Forward Party.
 
 Sources said that the SGPDA had failed to pay its dues to MMC over the last several years largely towards lifting of garbage from the two SGPDA markets - the wholesale fish market and the vegetables-cum-fruit market. With arrears the amount is now a whopping 15 lakh. Sources says MMC has explained to SGPDA that the corporation has been accumulating losses by collecting garbage from the two markets as garbage collection rates have not been revised over the last 17 years. While MMC charges SGPDA the rate of 611 per trip, the quantum of garbage at these markets has increased manifold. MMC also incurs an expenditure of 2500 per trip towards engaging vehicles and labour. Sources informed TOI that the garbage generated by the SGPDA’s two markets constitutes nearly 10 percent of the total garbage generated by the city.
 
 At the meeting, SGPDA has asked the MMC to send a formal proposal detailing its revised charges, said sources. This will then be placed before the SGPDA body meeting for approval.
 
 On the other hand, though MMC has disputed the bill raised by SGPDA, sources said moves are afoot to settle the dues “in a mutually acceptable manner”.
 
 When contacted, Prabhudessai declined to divulge details about the money matters stating it was an “internal matter” between the two bodies.
 
