PATNA: The Patna police have made special traffic arrangements from 4pm to 5am on Wednesday, Thursday, Friday and Saturday to facilitate smooth movement of pandal hoppers during the Durga Puja celebrations.

 No vehicular movement, except that involving emergency services, will be allowed on the stretch from Dak Bungalow crossing to Kotwali police station. Vehicles are also not permitted to ply from Bhattacharya Road towards the Dak Bungalow crossing.
 
 Vehicles coming from   road will not be allowed to move towards Samanpura. Heavy vehicles will not be permitted on Bailey Road and Ashok Rajpath from Wednesday to Saturday. 
 
 Small vehicles coming from Saguna Mor to Bailey Road will be diverted towards the BMP ground near airport. Those moving towards the airport will have to go towards the BIT. 
 
 However, vehicular movement is permitted on the Bailey Road overbridge. 
 
 Vehicles coming towards Gandhi Maidan from Danapur via Bailey Road will be turned left from the Voltas Mor. 
 
 On Ashok Rajpath, vehicles coming towards Gandhi Maidan will be diverted towards Udyog Bhawan, from where they can move towards Exhibition Road flyover. No vehicle from Gandhi Maidan side on Ashok Rajpath will be allowed to move beyond NIT Mor. Vehicles moving from Station Road towards Gandhi Maidan will have to go via Goria Toli Chowk and Exhibition Road. 
 
 On Bari Path, vehicles will not be allowed from Bakerganj to  . The stretch connecting Nala Road Mor and Thakurbari Mor will also be closed for vehicular movement. 
 
 In Makhania Kuan, one way vehicular movement will be allowed from south to north, but Govind Mitra Road will be closed for vehicles. On Khazanchi Road, vehicles will be allowed to ply from north to south. No vehicle will be allowed on Dariyapur Gola Road and Thakurbari Road. 
 
 Vehicles coming from New Bypass will be diverted towards left from Anisabad to Pulwarisharif and   path. 
 
 Parking will not be allowed around the Gandhi Maidan. On Fraser Road, vehicles can be parked on the roadside from LIC office to Bata showroom, and on both sides of the stretch running from Dr C P Thakur’s residence to the radio station.
 
 Two-wheelers will be allowed to be parked on the stretch running from   to Bihar School Examination Board office. Parking will also be allowed on the campuses of Patna College and Patna Science College. 
 
 
