GURUGRAM: More than half-a-dozen issues related to   have been identified by a committee set up by the state transport department to identify “black spots” in the city that witness accidents very often. The panel has pinpointed the bus stand in old Gurgaon,  ,  , Signature Tower, Sector 55/56 and Sector 29 as the places that need an urgent fix.

 The committee, which consists of officials from the district administration, traffic police, regional transport authority and highway administration, has also asked the departments concerned to take necessary steps to reduce the number of accidents at these six trouble spots in Gurgaon.
 
 The panel has observed that the lack of parking space near the bus stand and the nearby Huda market in old Gurgaon has been a major cause for snarls in the area. Chaotic driving on this congested stretch has led to many accidents in the area. Similarly, vehicles visiting the CNG stations in sectors 55/56 and 29 choke the roads leading to the pumps. As a result, traffic movement is obstructed in these areas and there are always chances of accidents.
 
 On Delhi-Gurgaon expressway, motorists often try to take a wrong side from Hero Honda Chowk towards Rajiv Chowk to avoid the U-turn from  . But this is extremely risky for their safety and often leads to a chock-a-block situation at this busy intersection and its vicinity.
 
 Similarly, the committee observed that vehicles coming from Jaipur often take the wrong side in order to get to the service road on the right side near the Kherki Daula toll plaza. This is among the major causes of traffic snarls at this busy junction. And vehicles exiting from Sector 15 and taking a turn towards Delhi on the expressway chokes the Signature Tower intersection. 
 
 Most importantly, the committee has recommended implementation of stick and cat’s eye reflectors on all dividers and speed breakers in the city, and reflective paints on zebra crossings near crossroads, traffic signals, schools and hospitals — all to boost the safety of pedestrians and motorists.
 
 “Our priority is to improve the traffic movement and decongest the roads. The committee observed that the city’s main roads and slip roads are in very bad shape at many places. We have intimated the authorities concerned to do the necessary repairs and provide better infrastructure,” said Sushil Sarwan, sub-divisional magistrate of Gurgaon, told TOI on Wednesday.
 
 
