HUBBALLI: Most communities, including dalits, have been following   for centuries. Due to  , there are a few attempts at  . A dalit couple, who entered into married life in Gadag on Friday, shunned these rituals and followed the teachings of Buddha, Basava and Ambedkar. 

 The marriage was a different experience as there was   but there was prayer of Buddha and reading of Basavanna's vachanas in Kannada. Instead of rice grains, the couple was blessed with flower petals by relatives and well-wishers.
 
 Somashekhar Sanninganavar, a postal employee, said it was his dream to get married as per the teachings of Buddha, Basavanna and Ambedkar. "It it was difficult to convince all my family members but I took the help of a few likeminded ones. I was fortunate to get my fiancee's cooperation," he said.
 
 Nijalingappa Kale, his paternal uncle and an auditor in the cooperative department, said he got a call from the groom seeking his help to convince his parents ten days ago. 
 
 "When we said there would be no showering of rice grains, everyone was furious. We formed a network of relatives and friends to work on this so that everyone could be persuaded. After discussions for a week, all the family members agreed to it," he said.
 
 Mallappa Sanninganavar, the groom's father and a police sub-inspector, said that he was worried about societal reaction. "We're happy that we have set an example," he said.
 
 The bride Pratibha Bellad, a diploma holder in education, said she had been thinking about getting married in a progressive way since her college days. "But my priority was to get married as per my mother's wish. My mother is a widow and I wanted to keep her happy. When Somashekhar expressed his interest in such a marriage, I told my mother about it. She did not agree initially but after several rounds of discussion, she finally agreed to it. She wants me to be happy and said my choice is hers," she said.
 
 Basavanand Swamiji of Nargund said there was strong resistance for simple and progressive marriages in the 12th century. "Despite resistance from society and rulers, Basavanna and other sharanas could shun orthodox marriages. Today, there is a need to spread awareness about such marriages."
 
 Veteran writers Allamaprabhu Betadur, SS Harlapur, AB Hiremath, Basavaraj Hugar, DSS leader Venkateshayya and others were present at the marriage.
 
 The couple presented copies of the book 'Naanu Hindu Aagi Sayalaare: Dr BR Ambedkar' compiled by Sadashi Marji to all attendees at the wedding. The couple exchanged Vachana Samputa compiled by slain scholar MM Kalburgi as a token of love.
 
 
