GURUGRAM: More than 250 huts were gutted in a major fire broke out on Friday evening in a slum near the marble market close to   station. There were no reports of anyone being injured.

 The fire started around 5.45 pm on Friday in   colony. The residents of the settlement claim that the fire started after flames from a fire wood stove spread to the straws of a hut, and then to nearby huts, which were made of bricks and straws. The fire tenders reached the spot only after 6.40pm, only after repeated calls were made to the seniors officials of the fire department.
 
 Kavita, a 35-year-old woman, who lived with her family in one of the huts, said she noticed the fire after she heard her children screaming. “When I came out, I saw the hut adjacent to that of ours was on fire. I rushed out with my children. Soon, the fire spread to my hut too,” said Kavita, whose hut was burnt completely. Her husband Ashish, a mason, was on his way home when the incident took place. “I have been living here for five years. I have lost all my life’s savings. We don’t even have clothes to wear. All our belongings have turned into ashes,” he said.
 
 Ram Ashish, another resident, was seen crying after he lost all his money that he had saved for his daughter's wedding.
 
 The wind direction and a number of cylinder blasts accelerated movement of the fire. According to the fire officers present at the spot, the number of huts which were burnt could be anywhere between 200 and 300, but a final number can only be confirmed after a proper investigation on Saturday.
 
 IS Kashyap, the fire safety officer, said 10 fire tenders were sent to douse the fire and bring the situation under control. “The fire started at a time when all the families were preparing the dinner and from preliminary probe it appears that the fire started as an accident while a resident was cooking. It was a major fire incident, but there are no casualties. The firemen were on the ground, even hours after the fire was doused, to make sure that there wasn’t a relapse,” said Kashyap.
 
 Deputy commissioner Hardeep Singh told TOI that the priority now was to relocate the affected people to a safe location. 
 
 “We are working with the fire department and the   for the rescue and relief operation. We are making arrangements for food and shelter for the affected. We will discuss about the compensation on Saturday, ” he said.
 
 
