Coimbatore: While environmentalists, researchers and courts across the state are busy discussing the menace of seemai karuvellam or prosopis juliflora, not many people know that there is another exotic species of trees slowly invading the shola forests in Palani hills and the Nilgiris. Scientists from the Institute of Forest Genetics and Tree Breeding (IFGTB) are mapping out the spread of wattle trees (Acacia mearnsii) and the extent to which it has invaded the above-mentioned forests. 

 IFGTB’s geo-informatics department has begun working on a three-year project to map the spread of wattle trees in Palani hills and the Nilgiris. “We want to map the spread of the species, arrive at the extent of area it occupies and also find out how much of the shola forests area and grasslands it has invaded,” said the head of the forest research information management division, A Rajasekaran. “We have already visited Kodaikanal and managed to get pictures of areas occupied earlier by shola forests but now have wattle trees,” he said. 
 
 Wattle trees were planted by the forest department across forest regions and hills in late 1950s and early 1960s to cater to the need for tanning barks. 
 
 “Till the 1990s, the trees were harvested regularly and aggressively to cater to the leather industry’s demands. But once leather factories moved to the use of chemical dyes, the department stopped harvesting them,” said Rajasekaran. “As a result, these huge trees which produce thousands to lakhs of seeds, which get dispersed with the help of animals, began spreading easily,” said the scientist.
 
 The conservator of forests, S Ramasubramanian, admitted that wattle trees have begun invading the shola forests. “Wattle trees do inadvertently invade the shola forests when the conditions are conducive in terms of moisture and availability of space,” he said. 
 
 “The shola forests are usually dense and are naturally made to prevent intrusion, but when there is a small space, the wattle seeds creep in and trees come up,” he said. 
 
 The forest department has already taken up initiatives to clear the wattle trees in shola forests. “We have removed the trees and natural vegetation has also begun growing. However, the wattle clearing activity is only being taken up as a pilot activity,” said Ramasubramanian. 
 
 “We are studying how the eco-system is responding,” he said. “Immediate removal of all wattle trees suddenly will cause other ecological problems such as soil erosion. It has to be done in a phased manner,” said Rajasekaran.
 
 
