BHOPAL: With the state capital falling in a unique ‘man-tiger’  , there is little that the government can do to relocate the tigers straying around the   or the outskirts of the city.

 According to law, an animal can only be captured or relocated if it becomes a  . “If a tiger attacks a person then we can relocate it. Large cattle population around the dam area attracts the tigers as they are easy prey, the forests in the area provides a cover making it a good habitat for them,” said a senior officer.
 
 There are around 8 tigers in the jungles around Kerwa dam and their population is increasing. Spotting the big cat prancing around the Kerwa-Kaliasot area during the day has become a common sight. Carcasses of cattle killed by the tigers can also be seen a number of times, sometimes in close vicinity of human population. To curb their movement, the authorities have put up fences around residential areas. Recently, it was also decided that small eateries and other shops will be shut down so that the commuters do not stop there for long duration. 
 
 The area also has many educational institutes, government offices in addition to farmhouses of politicians, bureaucrats and businessmen. The possibility of any untoward accident cannot be ruled out. Experts believe that the threat is not just to the visitors but also to the tigers with poachers getting easy access.
 
 In October 2015, a big cat entered the campus of Central Institute of Agriculture Engineering (CIAE) at Nabibagh in Karond area, triggering panic among staff. It was tranquilised and shifted to a reserve park. Forest officials say that if any such incident occurs in Kerwa-Kaliasot area they will relocate tigers. 
 
 “Sensors were placed between Ratapani and Kerwa last year, but they were smashed by villagers and tigers on the prowl,” said a forest official. The forest department had also installed cameras to track the movement of the big cats. But, a solution to keep the tigers away could not be come up. Deepak Khandekar, additional chief secretary (forest) said that the department is aware of the situation and is keeping a close watch on the activities and tiger movements.
 
