NEW DELHI: The Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore, and the Indian Institutes of Technology remain India's top educational institutions.While IISc bagged the top position in the overall and university categories in the National Institutional Ranking Framework's India Rankings 2017, seven IITs are in the top 10 in overall ranking.

 JNU and Kolkata's   -which have been in the eye of a storm over alleged anti-national sloganeering -also figure in the top five universities of the country. The rankings were launched in 2015 and the first rankings were done in 2016. This year, NIFR, under the human resources development ministry, added two categories -overall and colleges -to the existing engineering, universities, management and pharmacy categories. It has also expan ded the parameters, including outreach and inclusivity.
 
 In world university rankings, IISc has remained India's top bet since 2013. Even in the national rank ings, IISc has maintained the top position for the second consecutive year in the university category as well as securing the first position in the overall category , which has been introduced this year. Though IISc's score has fallen from 91.3 to 83.3 this year,  , with 73.9, and JNU, scoring 61.5, are a distant second and third, respectively .
 
 Union HRD minister   said the universities have been ranked for their quality and not for controversies. “JNU or Jadavpur University have not been ranked for raising (pro-Parliament attack convict) Afzal Guru slogans. They have not been ranked for confining the vice-chancellor but for their research work science, biotechnology and other fields," he said. The  , which hit the headlines over the suicide of its PhD student Rohith Vemula, has been ranked seventh in the list of universities.
 
 In another new category , “college“, in which 535 colleges participated,  's  , a women's college of liberal arts and basic sciences, topped the list. Here the competition is much tougher with a close contest between the first three positions.Chennai's Loyola College and DU's Shri Ram College of Commerce are the close second and third. DU's St.Stephen's, Hindu and Kirori Mal Colleges didn't participate in the ranking process.
 
 In the engineering category, there is no change in the top six positions, with IIT Madras taking the top position, followed by Bombay and Kharagpur. However, IIT Guwahati broke into the top 10, securing the seventh rank. Of the top 10 engineering institutions, eight are IITs.
 
