A truck championship held this Sunday with several national and international drivers heating up the tracks at the   in  , was akin to watching a fast and pacy   movie. The speeding trucks left sports enthusiasts gasping as they zipped past. Not just from NCR, but sports enthusiasts from across the country came to be part of the fourth season of the T1 Prima Truck Racing.

 
  
  KHILADI KUMAR'S NEW TOY:   atop a truck. When he came to flag off the race, the crowd cheered. Even though some of them were unable to hear what he said, they didn't seem to mind it
 
 
 
  
 The vroom of the high-powered engines reverberated around the circuit. Some trucks even collided and went off track, although no major accident took place. Angad Gaur, a college student from Greater Noida, said, "The accidents were a reminder that even at such events, not everything can be under control. When two trucks went off-track in the International Pro-round, I started whistling as it almost appeared like a scene from 'Fast And Furious'. However, it is only when a truck met with an accident during the international championship round that I realised how serious it was." The accident happened at a turn and the driver told us, "I didn't realise for a long time what actually happened, somebody just hit me and my truck went off track."
 
 
  
  Driver  ' truck met with a collision in the championship round
 
 
  When Akshay Kumar came to flag off the race, the crowd cheered. Even though some of them were unable to hear what he said, they didn't seem to mind it. Diana George, a chief executive from Gurgaon, told us, "I am a huge fan of Akshay, but today I didn't mind not being able to hear what he said. It was a great experience – ek film star saamne tha, and there were speeding trucks. Aisa lag raha tha ki koi movie chal rahi ho." The youngsters from SaReGaMaPa L'il Champs also performed on stage.
 
 
  
  The championship saw several national and international drivers heating up the tracks at the Buddh International Circuit in Greater Noida (BCCL)
 
 
 
 Pratham Seth, an IT employee, who lives in Beta-1, Greater Noida, said, "When you are watching this race, you forget that you are in NCR, where cars crawl on the roads. The concept of street racing is extremely challenging and interesting. It felt like an IMAX experience in a cinema hall." His friend, Sukarna Mandal, a government employee, compared it to a "gaming experience", and said, "I play games on a PlayStation, but I never thought that watching a race could be so thrilling. It's all like – zip, zap and zoom. I came from Bangalore to see the race and it was worth it. With every move, you take a deep breath, with every collision you pray. I spent eight hours on the ground, without even realizing it."
 
  
  Akshay Kumar kicked off the race (BCCL)
 
  The only woman driver,  , who participated in the race for the first time in India, caught everybody's attention. She drove past her competitors, overtook them and bagged the eighth position among 12 contenders. Talking about her experience, she said, "It was a great experience. I loved being part of this championship."
 
 
  
  (BCCL)
 
  
  (BCCL)
 
  
  My truck is stuck: Driver Oly Janes reacts after his truck met with a collision (BCCL)
 
 
 
  
  The kids from SaReGaMaPa L'il Champs also performed at the event (BCCL)
 
 
 
 
