She is a actor and dancer who made a prolific debut in   when she became part of Madonna’s famous show, Reinvention. But this time, her achievement has taken her to an even higher plane. She is the girl in the yellow dress who owned the opening song, 
 in the Oscar-winning movie 
 . CT found the LA girl on Facebook and had a conversation over the phone…

 
 Yeah… I am first generation American and
 I grew up in California. My parents immigrated to America from  . Two years ago, I got married to musician and director, Miles Crawford and we live in Los Angeles.
 
 I was very energetic in my childhood. When I was only three years old, my mother got me admitted to a dance school. She put me in ballet, jazz and gymnastic classes. So, I started dancing as soon as I started walking — at least it feels like that! (
 ) I continued to dance because it made me happy and it was my hobby. Dance was my first friend and my first love.
 Dancing became my identity and it did a lot for me as a minority kid struggling to balance two cultures. It gave me an outlet to express myself. When I graduated from high school, I was encouraged to go to college like most Indian Americans. I started my studies in Biology and stopped dancing but somewhere inside, I was missing it. I decided to take a dance class and I could feel myself come alive again.
 Not really. At the college, there was a professor of dance — Lisa Norris. She saw potential in me and introduced me to dance conventions. I auditioned and won a scholarship to The Edge Performing Arts Center in LA. It was then that I realized I wanted to be a dancer and began to build my career. Years later, I went back to tell her that she changed my life.
 
 Growing up my mom couldnt find a Bharatnatyam school near us and when she finally did I was already hooked on ballet and jazz. During the audition process for  , I knew I would have to stand out so I asked my friend who was a Bharatnatyam dancer to teach me some basic steps and I choreographed a solo where I fused it with hip hop. Looking back, I really wish I could have also learned Indian Classical. I am keen on learning Indian dance forms and recently started taking workshops in Odissi.
 
 Till the age of 16, I grew up visiting family in India every four years. I remember, when in high school, I would dream of going back to India in my own way. I came to India on a fellowship called Indicorps doing volunteer work. I came back again a few years later and lived in Mumbai producing and acting in a film where I met a lot of wonderful people including singer/actress Monica Dogra. Last year I came to India to collaborate on her video SHIVER, where I play the lead protagonist. 
 
 Being brown works both to my advantage and disadvantage. That being said, I never would have expected the part I got to play in Another day of Sun to go to a minority, let alone Indian. I was beyond thrilled to get the role and be part of the change toward diversity. Its exciting times and I am loving the support I am getting from India and fellow Indians.
 
 
 
 
 La La Land put me on the map as an actor just like working for Madonna established me as a dancer. I am getting a lot of opportunities to act which has been great because its exactly the direction I want to go! 
 
 I have grew up watching Bollywood movies and Amitabh Bachchan’s is my all time favorite. He is the man!
 
 I love my mom’s hand-cooked Gujarati food and anything with paneer in it!! The only Indian dish I make on a regular basis is khichdi.
 
 I have a Ganesh at my front door, ghee and a tray full of Indian spices including chai masala in my kitchen, a water filled copper jug on my bedside table and closet full of my moms Indian clothes, saris and jewelry — I treasure it all!
 
 
