Lucknow/Indore/New Delhi: The anti-terror squad ( ) of   on Tuesday was locked in a fierce encounter with two suspected members of Khorasan module of the  , linked reportedly with the Ujjain train blast. The two were holed up inside a house in Dubagga near Thakurganj area of the city.

 The encounter that started around 2 pm was on at the time of going to press. Police said one of the suspected terrorists was immobile while the other one was still firing shots. One of the suspects is Saifullah – a member of the IS module that is behind Ujjain train blast -- they said. DGP Javeed Ahmed said a high alert has been sounded across the state.
 
 In the first-ever strike in India by the so-called  , a module radicalised by the deadly terrorist organisation triggered a low-intensity blast in a train in Madhya Pradesh on Tuesday, injuring 10 passengers. The morning blast on the Bhopal-Ujjain passenger train at Jabri railway station spurred the MP and UP police to launch coordinated operations in the two states.
 
  Eight members of the group were arrested, while UP’s anti-terror squad was engaged in an operation in Lucknow to capture its leader Saifulllah and his unidentified aide. Ahmad said MP police had earlier arrested three persons in connection with a train blast in Shajapur area of MP and were identified as Danish Akhtar (Kanpur), Sayyed Meer Hussain alias Hamza of Aligarh and Atish Muzaffar alias Al Qasim of Kanpur. The three during interrogation revealed names of three other associates from UP, including a brother-duo Faisal and Imran from Kanpur and Fakhre Alam from Etawah. Another member, suspected to be the courier of the explosive which went off in the train, was injured in the explosion and was arrested from the spot. On the basis of the information provided by the MP ATS, their UP counterpart arrested the three on Tuesday. As per those arrested in MP, their other associate Saifullah – also a native of Kanpur – was living at a rented house in Dubagga area of the city along with his unidentified associate. 
 
 
