GHAZIABAD:  , the woman who voluntarily managed traffic at the   on NH-24 in Ghaziabad for years, is not just admired and respected, but is also a trendsetter. There is one person who is following in her footsteps and standing in for her in her absence at the Khoda Cut.

 As Dorris is being treated for cancer, and has been bedridden for several months,   (37) has taken her place at the Khoda cut on NH-24. Kamal, who owns a boutique material retail shop in Kala Patthar, Indirapuram, and lives with his family in Khoda. Inspired by the work of Dorris, who devoted herself to the cause of road safety, Kamal had been an apprentice sorts with Dorris since Feburary 2016.
 
 When this correspondent met Kamal on NH-24 on Thursday morning, he was busy at work regulating vehicular movement at the junction armed with a wooden staff in one hand and a mask on his face to ward off pollution. “I met Dorris after reading about her work in newspapers. Initially I assisted her in her work on a few occasions. Last year, when she had to travel to London for a felicitation ceremony for around one week. I took up her position on the highway all by myself for the first time,” Kamal told TOI.
 
 In November last year, Dorris was diagnosed with cancer for which she had to undergo treatment at AIIMS. She is still recuperating from her illness with sessions of chemotherapy but forced to remain indoors. Kamal has been manning traffic at the junction regularly every morning, from 7am to 10am, ever since Dorris was bedridden. He goes to his shop around 10am after his work on NH-24. Locals in the area said that Kamal was dedicated to the cause and arrives at the junction at 7am every day despite the biting cold conditions.
 
 Much like Dorris, whose daughter was killed in an accident on the Khoda Cut thereby inspiring her to become a ‘traffic heroine’ on NH-24, Kamal also has a tragic tale behind him that egged him on to follow in her footsteps. His father, Keshav Dutt, could not be provided timely medical treatment for a cardiac arrest because of a traffic jam on NH-24 on April 13, 2009.
 
 Kamal, whose hometown is Nainital, said that his wife, Radha, and schoolgoing kids, have fully supported him in this noble cause.
 
 
