CHENNAI: Around three months after he was suspended from the primary membership of the  , actor   has made a reentry into the forum, as the council revoked his suspension on Friday. 

 An order revoking the suspension was issued by the council's honorary secretary R Radhakrishnanan, citing the apologies tendered by the   in the high court. 
 
 The revocation, however, has come only after the first bench of the Madras high court faulted the suspension order on Thursday and gave a day's time to the council to pass appropriate orders. 
 
 Indicating that the court would step in to revoke the suspension if the council failed to do so, the bench orally observed that dissent was a form of freedom of expression and that it should not be responded with suspension. 
 
 It all started with Vishal's interview to a Tamil weekly published in August 2016, wherein he criticised the manner of functioning of the producers’ council. He was just out of the   election where he had trounced the formidable Sarathkumar-Radharavi combo to become general secretary of the Sangam. 
 
 However, taking offence to the interview, the Tamil Film Producers Council suspended Vishal from membership. Assailing the decision, he moved the high court, where the council told a single judge that they would reconsider the suspension if he apologised for the remarks.
 
 However, when he offered apologies, they refused to accept it, saying the actor had repeated same views in another interview to a television channel. The single judge then dismissed Vishal's plea. 
 
 He then filed an appeal before a division bench, Vishal's counsel Krishna Ravindran told TOI.
 
 On Thursday, the first bench made light of the reported comments by Vishal that council members conducted katta panchayat and said such comments could not be basis for suspensions. 
 
 Perhaps sensing the mood of the court, the council on Friday decided to accept Vishal's apology offered before a single judge and revoked his suspension. 
 
 Once the bench is informed of this development, the case will be closed formally.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
