INDORE/THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: A   (RSS) leader from Ujjain on Wednesday announced a reward of over Rs 1 crore to anyone “who beheads   and brings his head to me“, a   that evoked widespread outrage and condemnation in Kerala though RSS and BJP were quick to officially dissociate themselves from it.

 Holding the Kerala chief minister and CPM politburo member responsible for “killing of over 300 sangh workers“ in the state, Kundan Chandrawat, RSS's mahanagar sahprachar pramukh in Ujjain, made the announcement during a function organized by   in that city on Wednesday. “If somebody beheads Vijayan and brings his head to me, I will put my house, my property in his name,“ Chandrawat said to loud applause from around 100 people gathered at Shaheed Park.
 
 Vijayan himself, with characteristic bravado, laughed off the incident in Kochi on Thursday but the Ujjain threat, coming as it does on the heels of several attempts by Sangh Parivar affiliates to disrupt his official functions outside Kerala including, most recently, the CPM-organised Harmony Rally in Mangaluru last week, is bound to raise the temperature between CPM and RSS who have already had several violent confrontations since LDF came to power in June last year. Chandrawat on Thursday retracted his statement and expressed regret ­ “I was hurt and angered by the continuous killings of RSS swayam sewaks in Kerala .... I take back my statements on chief minister of Kerala ... I express my regret“ -but independent political observers in Kerala claimed the damage has already been done.
 
 While many said they would normally shrug off Chandrawat's rhetoric ­ a fallout of the violent feud between the two ideologically and cadre-driven fronts ­ what was alarming in this case was that it was directed not just at a rival political functionary , however high in the hierarchy , but at an elected chief minister of a state.
 
 CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury tweeted that Chandrawat's comments “revealed true colours of RSS as a terrorist outfit“. Yechury also questioned the “silence“ of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the NDA government over the remarks. “The death threat is grave as it was issued in the presence of Chinthamani Malavya, MP, and Mohan Yadav, MLA. Chandrawat should be arrested immediately and UAPA should be slapped on him“, the   state secretariat demanded in a statement.
 
 Chandrawat, an inspector with malaria control section of Madhya Pradesh government's health department, called Vijayan a `traitor' and said, “Such traitors have no right to stay in the country; they have no right to murder democracy.“ He referred to Godhra incident and subsequent riots in Gujarat and threatened Leftists saying that “three lakh people will be slayed to exact revenge for killing 300 RSS workers“.
 
 The video of Chandrawat's speech went viral on social media, evoking strong reactions from different quarters. RSS immediately distanced itself from the announcement, claiming that it was his individual opinion. “Chandrawat attended the function organised by Jan Adhikar Samiti in his individual capacity.RSS does not associate with violence in any form ­ deeds or thoughts,“ RSS Ujjain mahanagar pramukh Sameer Choudhari told TOI. “Sangh has been functioning democratically. Even after repeated assaults from CPM in Kerala, we have only organised peaceful protests. The sentiments expressed in Ujjain are not shared by RSS“, J Nandakumar, all-India saha prachar pramukh, said in a statement.
 
 Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala asked the Madhya Pradesh government to arrest Chandrawat immediately. “This indicates how far the RSS would go if it lost balance. Those who celebrated the assassination of Mahatma Gandhi would act against anybody“, Chennithala said in Thiruvananthapuram.
 
