HYDERABAD: It was a love story torn apart by caste walls, alleged dowry demands and a tragic end with murky undertones. They fled to marry, but finally the bride was found hanging, just a day after the Hyderabad high court ordered the government to produce 20-year-old T Swati on May 18 after the boy’s father moved court. Swati allegedly committed suicide at her parents’ house in Pallerla village near Atmakur early on Tuesday while her husband, Naresh, is missing.

 The high court intervened based on a habeas corpus petition filed by  , the girl’s father-in-law, who was concerned about the safety of his 24-year-old son Naresh. The vacation bench had directed the police to file a detailed affidavit on the missing person and produce Swati before the court on May 18. 
 
 Swati, who belongs to the Reddy community, had married Naresh, who hails from the washermen community, in Mumbai on March 25 without consent of elders. She was in second year of graduation in Valigonda when she fell in love with him.
 
 “Naresh and Swati had come to Bhongir on May 2. Once they reached the town, the girl called her father, T  , to pick her up. On May 6, the boy’s father Venkataiah approached   police with a missing complaint. When we asked Srinivas about the boy’s whereabouts, he claimed he had no information,” deputy commissioner of police (DCP), Bhongir, P Yadagiri told TOI. 
 
 Venkataiah later moved the court in search of his son. Hours after the court order on May 15, Swati reportedly attempted suicide by consuming cleaning acid. Her family rushed her to a hospital, where she was given a stomach wash and discharged. 
 
 “After the suicide attempt, the girl’s family stayed up with her till 4am. After they retired, the girl went to the bathroom and attempted suicide by hanging from the ceiling with a chunni (stole) around 4.30am. While tying the noose, she seems to have kicked a bucket, the sound of which alerted her family,” the DCP said. 
 
 Her family rushed her to a local medical practitioner, who told them to take her to a hospital. “They rushed her to the Bhongir government hospital, where she was declared brought dead. The girl’s father alleged that Venkataiah, a dabbawala in Mumbai, was harassing her for dowry. On May 2, while dropping the girl home, Naresh had reportedly told her he would meet her at the Nampally station to collect her and the dowry on May 15. We sent out a search party, but could not locate him,” Yadagiri said.
 
 Police have booked a case under section 304-B (dowry death) of the Indian Penal Code against the boy’s family. They said they have been trying to track Naresh since May 2. The couple had not approached Telangana police for protection. Cops are verifying if they had approached Mumbai police.
 
