NAGPUR: When the Sinchan Shodh Yatra team visited   project’s left bank canal (LBC) in 2015, the members were informed that the entire work would be completed and water would start flowing within three years. Two years down the line, when the team revisited the site, they were shocked to see not even half the work of 22.93 kms canal competed. 

 Even the work of the distributaries — minor and sub-minors — is far from completion as land acquisition procedure is yet to be completed even after 34 years. When the canal was conceptualized, the original estimate was Rs24.81 crore.
 
 Since then the cost was revised thrice and is now pegged at Rs662.351 crore, for which administrative approval was granted on September 21 last year. But the farmers from about 90 villages in   and Lakhandur in Bhandara, whose lands were ‘forcibly’ acquired for the project, are yet to get water for their crops. Some villages near the first phase of the canal — between 1 and 10 kms — are the lucky ones to get water sometimes.
 
 Ironically, the canal lining was being replaced due to extremely shoddy work by the contractors who allegedly used sub-standard material. The fraud came to fore after the Mendhegiri Committee pointed it out in 2009 in its report. Even after that, the work was entrusted to same contractors — Srinivasa Constructions and Bhangadia Constructions — as they assured to rebuild the canal.
 
 Even the water in the dam and canals stinks and it was difficult to stand there without protecting one’s nose as the entire sewage of Nag and other rivers from Nagpur and Bhandara is being released in the dam. The entire reservoir is being contaminated despite repeated directives from the Nagpur bench of  .
 
 This is yet another example of complete mismanagement, faulty planning, government-contractors nexus and apathy of Vidarbha Irrigation Development Corporation (VIDC) officials’ that has marred the project. Even though it was conceptualized in 1983, its actual work started in 2007, but even after a decade, a majority of work is pending.
 
 Yatra activists, including Jan Manch president Anil Kilor, Sharad Patil, Pramod Pande, Ramesh Borkute along with   coordinator Avinash Kale, accused the VIDC officials of favouring the contractors. Instead of blacklisting them for poor quality of work and inordinately delaying the project, they were asked to complete the work.
 
 The officials including superintendent engineers —   and JM Sheikh and executive engineer Pravin Zod — however assured that the project would be completed by 2020. Their statement is in complete contrast to Maharashtra government’s assurance in an affidavit to Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court to complete the entire Gosikhurd Indira Sagar project before 2019.
 
 They informed that the retaining wall of the left bank canal collapsed in 2009 due to some problems with the soil and no structure could stand there. Subsequently, they roped in IIT Gandhinagar for suggesting a solution. Its team inspected the site and took soil samples for study, but is yet to submit a report even after six months.
 
 “Even during the 2015 visit, the officials had made same assurances, but done nothing on ground. The project should ideally have been completed in 2009-10. Generations of farmers have been just left hoping to get water for their parched fields. But the officials hardly act against contractors and there is no accountability on anyone for the inordinate delay,” Kilor told TOI.
 
 Govind Bhendarkar, who headed the project-affected persons (PAP) panel, pointed out that farmers from 90 villages had sacrificed their ancestral lands for the project but instead of providing water to them, “it’s being diverted to a power plant”. “The soil survey is conducted before the project is finalized. In this case, it was not the case,” he said.
 
 The officials stated that they had already taken security deposit and bank guarantee of Rs15 crore from the contractors and if they failed to complete the work, the VIDC would assign the task to other contractors using that amount. “The land acquisition is never a problem as villagers are getting increased compensation much above the market price as per the new Act,” they said. 
 
 
