MUMBAI: With the stage set for cricket board's (BCCI) state units to come together for a Special General Meeting ( ) on April 9, TOI has learned that almost every units will back former   president and ex-International   ( ) chairman N   to be appointed India's nominee representative at the game's governing body.

 A five-point agenda has been floated for the SGM, one that has been called for by BCCI's acting president  . The agenda states: 1) To appoint BCCI representative(s) to the meetings of ICC; 2) To discuss decide on status of changes in ICC governance and financial matters; 3) To note legal matters; 4) To discuss developments post Supreme Court's January 2 order; 5) To appoint an ombudsman.
 
 Of the five-point agenda, the first one 足 to appoint representative(s) to the meetings of ICC 足 is the primary reason this SGM is being called for.
 
 Srinivasan may not attend the SGM and sources in the know of things say "it is not for him to back his own representation. It is for the state units to take a call".
 
 The Chennai-based senior administrator will be most willing to represent India at the ICC albeit on the condition that he has the BCCI's support. He has it.
 
 The question that the fraternity is asking is this: Will CoA be at ease backing this representation?
 The BCCI old guard has come to believe that ex-CAG and present CoA chief   足 given his experience as one of India's senior-most bureau crats 足 is best placed to understand this scenario, should he be looking to bring about a solution to the prevailing stand-off as soon as possible.
 
 "We met him the other day and he came across as really considerate and someone willing to understand the other side. Unlike in the past, it was a refreshing change and look how smoothly have things progressed this week," an official privy to developments said.
 
 The BCCI establishment expects Rai to understand the complexities at hand where the ICC is concerned. "If Srini could accomplish what he did at the ICC, it was because he spent six years there. Likewise, CoA should also look beyond merely listening to the audio of one particular SGM minutes and understand that state units were lied to, during that SGM. For that, the y'll have to sit across the table with these state members and listen to them," adds the official.
 
 Given the manner in which Rai has cleared the air and allowed state units to call for the SGM, saying "BCCI officials don't need CoA's approval to convene", state units are hopeful that he'll take the time out to listen to them too.
 
 "He's (Rai) not in the country on April 9, but when he returns, and if he decides to discuss these issues in detail, the state associations will be really happy to cooperate," says another BCCI functionary.
 
 BCCI is still wary that the CoA may have taken ICC chairman   into confidence and arrived at a consensus on the ICC front, where proposed policy changes are concerned. 
 
