JALANDHAR: The much-talked about dera factor fizzled out in Punjab with the routing of SAD and BJP. The incumbent SAD-BJP alliance could not win even a single seat in two districts Bathinda and Mansa where the clout of Sirsa’s Dera Sacha Sauda, which had extended support the ruling combine, is considered to be maximum. The election has made it clear that deras alone can’t ensure victory of a party in Punjab.

 Playing up of “dera factor” started in 2007 when Sirsa dera’s chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh issued a diktat to his followers to support the Congress. While the party got a good number of seats in parts of Malwa, it fell short of figure needed to form the government. SAD-BJP retained to power after getting most of the seats in Doaba and Majha regions.
 
 In the 2012 assembly elections, Sirsa dera head’s close relative Harminder Singh Jassi lost from Bathinda Urban by a margin of 6,645 votes. This time Jassi trailed at number three from Maur constituency as AAP won the seat.
 
 Like previous elections, this time also information was ‘leaked’ to media about the candidates of different parties visiting the dera headquarters in Sirsa to seek political support.
 
 It was not just the Sirsa dera extending support to SAD-BJP alliance, even a Majha-based prominent sect also extended political tactical support without making an open declaration about it. A senior SAD leader, who was a candidate and lost in Doaba region, said he was conveyed about the support by the representatives of the dera and later a meeting was also held.
 
 Some Sikh deras also supported Akali Dal and even issued an open appeal. Damdami Taksal-led Sant Samaj issued open appeals to its followers to support SAD. Baba Lakha Singh-led Nanaksar Dera also supported Akalis. However, all this could be of little help to the ruling alliance.
 
 Senior SAD leader and former general secretary of Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) Kiranjot Kaur made a remark on the dera factor on her Facebook wall saying, “Dera Sirsa supported BJP-SAD in Delhi poll, AAP won. Dera Sirsa supported SAD-BJP in Punjab, Congress won..........‘Hun tah kuch samjho!! Guru val pith karke jitt nahi honi.’ (At least now understand, you can’t win with your back turned towards Guru).”
 
 
