NAGPUR:   has initiated action against some subject experts and its own officials after the Hindi translation of a question in   caused an outrage with many Twitteratis claiming a ‘communal’ conspiracy. 

 The April 5 paper carried a question asking students to justify their assumed stand to “promote burying and discourage burning” with regards to the problem of air pollution. Though the question did not include the word ‘body’, its Hindi translation dafnana (to bury), enough spark to ignite a controversy.
 
 Tagging union HRD minister Prakash Javadekar in most of the tweets, some even went on to question if the ‘kabrastan’ and ‘shamshan’ debate was being restarted. Those two words were widely discussed by political parties during the poll campaign for Uttar Pradesh elections. 
 
 In the English version, the question at the centre of the controversy was published as ‘How would you justify your arguments that promote burning and discourage burning’? The question did say that this topic was to be discussed by the student in a meeting organized by “Residents Welfare Association of your locality”. 
 
 In an official statement, CBSE clarified on April 6 that the question had “no communal angle” with which it was being associated. The central board said it “is a value-based question which intends to highlight the proper disposal of various kinds of wastes by using landfills, compost pits etc, thus reducing the impact of such wastes on environment”. CBSE added that the question is “framed to inculcate environment friendly behaviour and increase the sensitivity towards safe disposal of various kids of wastes”. 
 
 While CBSE’s statements seem to cross out doubts in the English version, the outrage over the Hindi translation cannot be ignored. The board too acknowledged this by swinging into action the day after the exam. The board said, “Due to ambiguity in interpretation of question and its translation in Hindi, CBSE has taken strict action and debarred the subject experts besides issuing show cause notice to the concerned officers also.” 
 
 No school in Nagpur reported receiving the question paper set that had this question. The CBSE statement mentions that the controversial question no. 23, was published in the ‘Delhi scheme’. 
 
 A city school principal said, “CBSE publishes question sets separately for Delhi, All India and Abroad. Nagpur gets the ‘All India’ lot and even in that we got three sets. We did not receive a single mention from students about it.”
 
 A Biology teacher from a another school said, “Even in my school none of sets had this question. But I can assure you that the chapter on Ecology, which has the air pollution topic, does not talk about disposal of bodies.” 
 
