MUMBAI: The city collector has asked the   to deposit Rs 1.9 crore as its share of half the income generated by allowing mobile towers on its premises.   Merchant of the trust recently rushed to Bombay high court to challenge the demand. The HC vacation bench is scheduled to hear the plea for urgent intervention on Wednesday.

 The trust, established a century ago for religious and charitable purposes, obtained the land it occupies in south Mumbai from the collector on lease. In 1920-21 the trust became a lessee of over 4,000 sq yards of land, which included two pieces. In 1940 and later in 1951, 111 sq yards and 60 sq yards were additionally leased. These leases placed no restriction on the user from letting out any part of the leased land, said the trust.
 
 In 2009, the trust gave a small portion of the land on leave and licence to four cellular companies. The income generated is used by the trust for the benefit of the community at large, it said.
 
 The city collector, however, viewing it differently, addressed a letter to the trust on May 4 asking it to deposit Rs 1.88 crore within 20 days. The demand is based on an April 2005 notification that sought 50% share of income from such lease on leasehold land from societies. The collector passed an order on March 21, 2017, directing the trust to share 50% of the income from the cell phone towers.
 
 The trust’s contention is that the 2005 notification applies to housing societies and other private societies but not to any religious or charitable trust that is not a profit-making entity.
 
 In 2008, 2011 and 2012 too, there were leave and licence agreements made by the trust with cellular companies, the trust has stated.
 
 In September 2016, the collector first issued a notice to the trust alleging breach of lease agreements and sought a 50% share of income. 
 
 The trust replied to the notice in November. But the then collector, Ashwini Joshi, then followed it with an order to deposit the amount. After the trust sought four weeks’ time on April 6, on May 4, the recovery officer from the Mumbai collector’s office asked for the payment within 20 days, failing which recovery proceedings would commence. Recovery proceedings would include attachment. Hence the trust rushed to the HC for relief.
 
 The matter is to come up before vacation judge Justice P D Naik where senior counsel Dipan Merchant may appear for the trust. 
 
 
