NAGPUR: Deputy commander of Kasansur dalam Jyoti Gawade was shot dead by   police’s C-60 commandos at Botejhari and Badgaon forest on Thursday. She is alleged to be the architect of the state’s worst Naxalite arson attack which took place at Surjagarh on December 23 last year. 76 trucks, 3 JCBs and 1 motorcycles were burnt by the rebels.

 Intelligence agencies have claimed that Jyoti had shifted to the north of Gadchiroli in the last fortnight to evade police. Shivaji Bodkhe, IG of state anti-naxal operations (ANO), said that Jyoti was trying to break through the police cordon when she received bullet injuries in retaliatory fire. “Police have also seized Jyoti’s .303 rifle,” he added.
 
 Police said Jyoti was trying to contact her family at Botejhari village when the police swooped down on her. On Wednesday, the police had cornered Naxals at Nihalkai forest near Gyarapatti from where two .12 bore rifles were seized. After intensifying the search operations, the police spotted Jyoti’s dalams following which a battled ensued.
 
 Jyoti, alias Sagobai Narsingh, was earlier commander of Surjagarh local guerrilla squad (LGS) which was later amalgamated with Kasansur dalam. Senior Naxal cadres had killed Jyoti’s husband, Diwakar who was a popular and seasoned leader of Tippagarh, in cold blood around four years ago. 
 
 After Diwakar’s murder, Jyoti was shifted to south Gadchiroli where she later was elevated to the rank of commander of Surjagarh LGS. 
 
 Gadchiroli SP Abhinav Deshmukh said that verifications are under way for “collecting concrete evidence” of Jyoti’s presence at the arson site.
 
 The police had claimed that Kasansur dalam was present during the arson attack. Jyoti was its second-in-command after commander Mahesh Gota and divisional committee member Surjan Akka. The other dalams present at site were Perimili, Gatta local organization squads (LOS) and Bhamragarh. 
 
 Police claim that mine workers had said about the presence of a woman leading the Naxal attack. There were other women in the group too. The other leaders who are likely to have participated in the arson are commander Sainath of Perimili dalam, Dinesh of Bhamragarh dalam and Ramco of Gatta LOS. 
 
 
