NEW DELHI:   kick-started its municipal poll campaign on Monday with a havan and announcement of 14 committees to oversee its election preparation, including one to “expose” the AAP government. 

 The party has appointed 96 people, including MPs, MLAs and councillors, to these committees, each focusing on different issues such as manifesto preparation, social media management, organisation of road shows and public meetings of senior leaders. Several councillors have been accommodated in these committees in a bid to pacify them following the party’s decision to not give tickets to any sitting corporator or their relatives. 
 
 While all other parties have started their campaigning, BJP, in power at all three corporations, is yet to hit the ground. Members said the party would start campaigning in a day or two. A four-member committee of MPs, appointed by Shah, met on Sunday to finalise various committees. 
 
 Monday’s havan at the Delhi unit office was attended by Northwest Delhi MP Udit Raj, MLA Vijender Gupta,   chief  , organising secretary Sidharthan and senior leader Arti Mehra along with other state unit members. However, several senior leaders were absent.
 
 BJP members said the civic elections would be a referendum on the AAP government. The committee to “expose” AAP is headed by Rajya Sabha MP Vijay Goel and have Delhi opposition leader Gupta, MLAs O P Sharma and Jagdish Pradhan, and seven other members. 
 
 Till Monday evening, the committee also included the name of one ‘G. Virmani’. Many said it was Gulshan Virmani, OSD to Union minister   and a central government employee. But Kuljeet Chahal, general secretary of Delhi BJP, later said, “It is a typographical error. It is Veena Virmani (Gulshan Virmani’s wife).” 
 
 Vardhan will be assisted by MPs Ramesh Bidhuri and Parvesh Sahib Singh Verma along with six others to prepare the manifesto. East Delhi MP Mahiesh Girri is in charge of finances while Udit Raj and former Delhi BJP chief Satish Upadhyay will oversee interactions with RWAs and NGOs. 
 
 The party has not formed any committee for candidate selection. Sources said they would be finalised by the Shah-appointed team after taking suggestions from district units and MPs. 
 
  bypoll: BJP is likely to allow its ally SAD (Badal) to field its candidate in the by-election to Rajouri Garden assembly constituency. Though a decision couldn’t be reached till late Monday night, sources said, Manjinder Singh Sirsa would contest on BJP’s symbol.
 
 
