LUCKNOW:   and the Congress on Wednesday accused Prime Minister   of trying to sabotage the Rahul-Akhilesh roadshow in Varanasi on March 4. The two parties alleged the PM was afraid of losing the elections and was now mounting pressure on district authorities in the temple town to allow his movement through the same route on which the Congress-SP roadshow is slated to be taken out.

 The two parties also came down heavily on the plans of the PM and a host of his ministers to camp in Varanasi—Modi’s parliamentarty constituency —for three days starting March 4, claiming it was unprecedented and a sure sign of desperation in  . 
 
 SP MP Naresh Agarwal and his fellow parliamentarian from Congress, Rajiv Shukla said BJP was jittery about elections results after the voting trends in the first five phases of UP polls and was now trying to polarise the elections on communal lines by talking bringing up non-issues like “kabristan-shmashan” and banning slaughter houses in UP.
 
 Attacking the BJP on the issue of banning slaughter houses in UP, the two leaders said if the party was serious about it, the leaders should first ensure that slaughter houses in BJP ruled states were shut down. “Gujarat is the biggest exporter of meat in India and they are talking about closing down slaughter houses in UP,” said Rajeev Shukla, adding that the Modi government should also share about the relations a senior BJP leader has with the country’s largest meat exporter.
 
 “We have already got permission from authorities concerned and election commission for the joint road show of Congress vice president Rahul Gandhi and SP chief   but the PM is now trying to disrupt the programme and wants to move through the same areas,” said Agarwal talking to the media in Lucknow. He said the PM has decided to stay put in Varanasi for three days for campaigning ahead of the final phase of elections which suggests the BJP is panicking. “They have realised that they will be wiped out in the polls and such acts are clear signs of the PM’s desperation,” he said.
 
 Shukla, who is also the chairman of IPL, gave a measured response when asked to comment on former cricketer Virendra Sehwag’s tweet on the Gurmehar Kaur issue. “Everybody has condemned it and such acts are unacceptable,” he said. The SP MP was, however, upfront in his reaction and said Sehwag had no cricket left in him, so he should now join politics. Daughter of a Kargil martyr, Gurmehar (22) is in the spotlight for raising her voice against violence on campuses in the wake of clashes in Ramjas College in Delhi last week.
 
