PATNA:   will remain out of action till June 10.

 This was decided at a meeting on Tuesday at which Patna divisional commissioner Anand Kishor reviewed the progress of ongoing work to demarcate parking space on the Patna roads.
 
 A number of complainants earlier protested against the towing away of vehicles parked on the roadsides. There’s no parking space on many city roads from where jambusters were towing away the vehicles, the complainants pointed out.
 
 Reacting to the complaints, the commissioner had convened a meeting on May 10. Traffic police, Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC), transport department and state road construction department (RCD) officials were told at the meeting to demarcate parking spaces by May 17. Till then, jambusters were withdrawn from the roads.
 
 The deadline was extended for a week and has again been extended till June 10 as the demarcation work has not been completed. The jambusters will operate only after the parking spaces are demarcated on all targeted roads, sources said.
 
 According to the sources, the executive engineer of the RCD’s New Capital division has been given the responsibility to mark the parking zone with yellow lines. The RCD will also install retro reflective sign boards at both ends of the parking lots. ‘No parking zones’ have also to be properly declared. 
 
 The commissioner directed PMC’s executive officer Vishal Anand to remove the illegal nurseries from the parking spaces. Three such nurseries are in the parking spaces on   and two in the parking space stretching from Boring Road roundabout to Hartali Mor. 
 
 Anand has also been asked to remove the encroachments from the parking space near Udyan hospital.
 
 Illegal parking fees: FIRs to be lodged
 
 Patna divisional commissioner Anand Kishor has ordered lodging of FIRs against private individuals collecting parking fees at few places in the state capital.
 
 Irked at reports of illegal realisation of parking fees near   on Fraser Road and under the flyovers on   and Exhibition Road, the commissioner also directed SP (traffic) P K Das to take over these spaces and provide parking facility for free.
 
 The parking space near Dumraon Palace has been created without permission from the authorities. The contracts for maintaining the parking spaces under the flyovers have not been awarded as yet by the   to anyone after one of the contracts expired and the other was terminated.
 
