HUBBALLI: Students of an 87-year-old teacher, who has dedicated his life to poor students in Gadag, will felicitate their guru by publishing two books on him and unveiling a statue on Sunday.

 Basavantappa Gurappa  , born in Mudenagudi village of Ron taluk in 1930 and retired from service in 1988, has tutored thousands of students, including RDPR minister  .
 
 Speaking to STOI, Siddhalinga Mahaswami of Tontadarya Mutt, said Annigeri is a synonym of sacrifice. “He spent all his salary and pension for the welfare of poor students in the region. He is also leading simple life. As he is a pride of the region, people are expressing their gratitude to him,” he added.
 
 G B Havanagi, a student of Annigeri and one of the organizers of the felicitation programme, said: “Even though our sir is publicity-shy, we felt the need to document his life and thoughts in the form of books. Siddhalinga Mahaswami had convinced him to heed our request for books in 2013. Now, we have come out with two books which narrate his life and times, and thoughts.”
 
 Satish Pattar, an engineer in the US, and R M Vijapur, a medical shop owner in Badami, have sponsored the publication of the books.
 
 Former MLA D R Patil said many families have directly or indirectly benefited from Annigeri. “The statue is only an acknowledgement to his selfless service. Many of his students are now successful, and spread across India and abroad. They have come together for this thanksgiving,” he added.
 
 MLC S V Sankanur said that the only criteria to get a seat in BG Annigeri Ashram is “having interest to learn”. The ashram has grown like an institution after Annigeri’s retirement. “Apart from his engagements at the ashram, he takes tuitions for students of other schools. He may have taught around 1,000 students every year for free,” he added.
 
 Shantalinga Swami of Doreswami Virakta Mutt (Bhairanahatti), who is also a student of Annigeri, said their guru used to take classes from 5am to 11pm. “Continuing his legacy, many of his old students are taking classes for their juniors. He has shaped the lives of lakhs of students, including economist R S Hugar, former chairman of Corporation Bank. He used to fast if any student stole a pen or book in the ashram. Fearing guru’s self-inflicting punishment, erroneous students would apologize for their acts. He follows Gandhi’s teachings,” he added.
 
 Speaking on the felicitation, Annigeri said: “I have done nothing. But these boys are doing a lot for me. I’m proud to have such students.”
 
