AURANGABAD: The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court recently   to one of the four accused in a   saying that   cannot be ruled out because of contradictory statements by eyewitnesses.

 Yogesh Bansi Chavan (24), who has been granted bail by the high court, was arrested on November 2 last year, while his brothers Maruti (32) and Hemraj (28) were arrested a few days earlier along with their friends Jalinder Borude and Sunil Magar. 
 
 All the five were charged under various sections of the IPC, including murder, for allegedly killing   Salve (28) on the evening of October 23 in the limits of   police post. According to the chargesheet, the accused had attacked the man with iron rods and a bat.
 
 According to the chargesheet, Ashish waylaid Maruti, who was returning from work, and tried extorting money for liquor. When Maruti objected to his move, Ashish allegedly assaulted him.
 
 “Maruti reached home, picked up a cricket bat and informed his brothers and two friends about the incident. All the five reached the spot and assaulted him, resulting in his death. There are primary reports that the deceased was allegedly under the influence of liquor at the time of incident,” says the chargesheet..
 
 In an attempt to make the case watertight, police recorded the statements of three eyewitnesses — Jyoti, Amol and Akash — before the magistrate and also filed a detailed chargesheet.
 
 Lawyer Abhaysinh Bhosale, representing Yogesh, contested that Akash stated before the magistrate that Yogesh assaulted the victim with a rod while Jyoti said Yogesh instigated the attackers.
 
 Justice N W Sambre of the high court ruled: “If the statements of witnesses, at its face value, are appreciated, Jyoti has attributed the role to the present applicant of that of instigation and not of active participation, that is use of any weapon. 
 
 “Akash, in his statement recorded on October 24, 2016, does not name the present applicant (Yogesh) or his presence in the crime in question. Statement under section 164 of CrPC gives the role of assaulting by rod. So far as the statement of witness Amol is concerned, he is not claiming that Akash was present as a witness on the spot.
 
 “Amol is not naming the present applicant as accused, who was present and participated in the crime. In fact he named other two brothers, which shows that Amol was aware of the relationship of present applicant with the two accused and he identified them also.
 
 “In the aforesaid background, in my opinion, the false implication cannot be ruled out, particularly, so as to implicate all the family members of the applicant, that is all the three members. In view thereof, once the applicant was subjected to custodial interrogation, his further detention is not warranted. As such, applicant is entitled to be release on bail.”
 
 The five have been booked on charges of murder, attempt to murder, voluntarily causing hurt, criminal intimidation, rioting and unlawful assembly. In addition to this, they were also slapped with sections of the stringent Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act.
 
