MUMBAI: The death of a 14-year-old student who apparently jumped off the terrace of the Andheri building in which he stayed has raised concerns over the popularity of a 
  .

  are probing messages circulating on social media that he was playing the game that is based on a 50-day dare. The player has to tackle each challenge—posted online daily—and post selfies on the private group. The last stage of the game is suicide. 
 
 
 
 
 Police sources said they learned about the suicide pact from Manpreeet Singh Sahani’s friends’   group. While Meghwadi police said they did not find any representation of a whale etched into his skin—which is normally part of the game—cyber police are scanning the Std IX student’s gadgets.
 
 Schoolmates told police that Manpreet had told them last week that he would not be going to school from Monday. 
 
 Last Saturday, Sahani had gone up to the sixth floor terrace of the building in Sher-e-Punjab society in Andheri (E) around 5.30pm and clambered up the parapet of the side wall. Residents from other buildings shouted out warnings to be careful, but he jumped before they could do anything. Manpreet’s parents left for their native place on Monday for his final rites. Their neighbours refused to comment.
 
 Deputy commissioner of police (zone X) Navinchandra Reddy said they have collected the boy’s laptop, mobile and other gadgets to try and find out what may have led him to end his life. “His parent’s don’t know the reason. We are recording the statements of his friends too as he had told some of them that he would not be attending school from Monday,” said Reddy.
 
 Assistant commissioner of police (Meghwadi division) Milind Khetle said they did not find any self-inflicted mark on him. “The reason is yet to be known. We are 
  We are taking the help of experts. Depending on the findings we will decide if the suicide case should be converted into an FIR,” said Khetle.
 
 Sahani’s father is an aviation engineer and the boy was the youngest in the family. 
 
 Psychiatrist Harish Shetty said one need not speculate about the death. What is very important at such times is to stand with the parents in their hour of grief, he said. “To understand the issue, the state should not only do a physical autopsy but also a psychological autopsy,” he added.
 
 
 
 
