KOCHI:The city which is lagging much behind other cities when it comes to the number of   has taken   

 As the corporation authorities opened 13 toilets in west Kochi while another 17 are in various stages of construction or renovation in different parts of the city.
 
 The corporation authorities said that the construction of the toilets was started as part of   project. 
 
 "We inaugurated 7 toilets in Thoppumpady last month. Earlier, we had opened six in South Beach, Fort Kochi," said V K Minimol, chairperson, standing committee for health. "The work on four toilets at Kaloor, two at Vyttila and four at Kaloor has been started. Renovation two e-toilets at Palarivattom also have started. Moreover, three toilets would be constructed in   while six will be constructed in Ernakulam market," she said.
 
  The local body has entered in to an agreement with a private firm for renovating e-toilets in Kacheripady and   premises, which remained defunct ever since they were erected a couple of years ago.
 
 Kochi corporation had suffered a setback during the rating as part of Swachch Survekshan project. The corporation which got fourth rank in the ratings as part of Swachch Survekshan in 2015 slipped to 55 and 271 ranks in 2016 and 2017 respectively.
 
 As the civic body couldn't declare open defection free (ODF) status, Kochi had lost 150 marks during the Swachch Survekshan ranking recently. According to mayor Soumini Jain the local body couldn't declare ODF as they most of the beneficiaries delayed the construction of toilets. "Those with their own toilets also applied for the financial aid for constricting toilet. As per the norms, the second instalment of the aid can be distributed only if the beneficiaries complete certain works. But, those received the aid failed to start the work," mayor said.
 
 A total of 1,950 beneficiaries were shortlisted for the project. "We distributed the first installment of Rs 5,000 to 1947. Of this, 157 families retuned the amount they received as they failed to construct the toilets. The second installment of Rs 8,000 has been disbursed to 626 persons," said V K Minimol, chairperson, health standing committee.
 
 
