MANALI: The tiny tourist resorts of Manali have continued to break all its previous records of tourists’ arrival as this year the town is gearing up to set a new milestone with many hotels occupied to full capacity in advance for the coming summer season.

 In 2016, over 35 lakh domestic and foreign tourists visited Manali. Despite ban on many tourism activities and limitation in number of vehicles allowed to go to   pass, it has failed to stop tourists from making beeline. Tension in Kashmir has also forced tourists to choose Manali as their alternative holiday destination. If hoteliers are to be believed, Manali can touch 40 lakh mark this year.
 
 “All hoteliers are reporting good response,”   president   said adding that January and February have been good for Manali with regular arrival of tourists. “The heavy snowfall in January brought some problem which sent negative message among tourists but all are engaged in renovation work to welcome tourists these days,” said Thakur.
 
 It was one decade back when many tourists visiting Manali had to spend nights in vehicles or go out of the town in search of accommodation during peak summer season when all hotels and guesthouses here used to be fully packed. “A large number of hotels have come up in last few years. All hotels, guesthouses and homestays have nearly 25,000 bedding capacity now which has doubled since that time. We have hotels of all categories and price is cheaper than many hill stations. That is why tourists are heading to Manali,” Thakur added.
 
 About 10 lakh tourists had visited Manali in 2001 and the number kept increasing gradually. Highest number of foreign tourists visiting Manali was 1.44 lakh in 2012. Financial crisis in many nations after 2012 is blamed for less foreign tourists’ arrival in Manali since then.
 
 Tourism department deputy director Rattan Gautam said more and more tourists are visiting   every year and numbers of hotels have also increased. “Manali hosts maximum number of tourists in Himachal due to availability of snow almost throughout the year. We have been framing policy to promote eco-friendly tourism here and trying hard to stop crowding of eco-sensitive zones including Rohtang. New destinations like Hamta are being opened to stop clogging of one particular destination,” he said.
 
