NEW DELHI: China has warned small and medium-sized countries in the   not to take sides “among big countries”.

 In a white paper it released earlier this week on Asia-Pacific security cooperation, Beijing also said major countries should treat strategic intentions of others in an objective and rational manner, reject the Cold War mentality, respect others’ legitimate interests and concerns and respond to challenges with concerted efforts.
 
 This is significant in the context of India’s own attempts to deepen security and defence ties with countries in the region, most notably with Vietnam and Japan, who are involved in serious maritime territorial disputes with China.
 
 After PM   took over in 2014, India’s Act East Policy has converged sharply with the US Rebalance in the region with New Delhi helping Washington to draw international focus on the significance of freedom of navigation and overflight in  .
 
 China’s state-run Global Times warned the US of a “devastating confrontation” and called for the two countries to prepare for a military clash after Rex Tillerson, who will soon head the state department, declared that China had to be denied access to the artificial islands it has built in South China Sea.
 
 The white paper did not touch upon India’s concerns over China’s refusal to clear its path to the membership of the  , or even its decision to block   sanction of JeM chief  , but said China’s strategic partnership with India for peace and prosperity had deepened.
 
 It said the two countries had maintained communication and coordination on international affairs and enhanced collaboration in the UN, Brics, G20, China-India-Russia and other mechanisms. On the issue of counter-terrorism, though, China again seemed to bat for Pakistan.
 
 “China believes dialogue among different civilisations should be enhanced and a holistic approach taken to eliminate the breeding grounds of terrorism... there should be no double standard in fighting terror, which should not be associated with a particular country, ethnicity or religion,” it said.
 
