AJMER: The   (RBSE), taking mass copying and cheating in the era of technology as a challenge, has asked members of special flying squads to check such practices. The board said that confidentiality of board exams depends on coordination between invigilators and flying squads.   are scheduled in March.

 The board on Tuesday organized a meeting of coordinators of special flying squads here at the board premises. The board members said that the role of such squads is important in checking mass copying and cheating during examinations. “Coordinators have been directed to inspect examination centers that fall in remote regions. It is also important to inspect sensitive examination centers of the state,” said BL Choudnary, chairman RBSE.
 
 According to the board, 66 special flying squads have been formed. Out of these, four are women squads. There will be one flying squad for every district and at least two in districts that have sensitive examination centers. “The squads have been directed to continuously inspect examination centers and check that there are no incidents of mass copying or cheating,” said an official. He added that these squads will remain active 45 minutes prior to commencing of the exams in their district and will inspect at least five examination centers. They will also inspect the process of distribution of question papers.
 
 The coordinators have also been directed to inspect the surroundings of the examination centers minutely. “These special squads are eyes, nose and ears of the board and will send their reports from the field and suggestions to change or rectify any process for next board examination,” said Meghna Choudhary, secretary of the board.
 
 “Last time during conducting   (REET), devices like mobile and watches were banned. Even invigilators and other staff entering the centers were not spared. This time the board is planning to ban mobile phones for invigilators,” added Choudhary.
 
 These squads will also check the functioning of CCTV cameras at examination centers and inspect the footage. The board has banned internet, photostat services and hostels at and near the examination centers during this period. Police will be deployed at every center in the state. 
 
 The board will begin distributing admit cards online to class XII students from February 22 and from February 27 to class X students. The control room on the board premises will start functioning from February 23.
 
 
