Much before   became Gurugram, the first Gurugrammers arrived here, a clean, green place then, a short drive away from south Delhi. Some came from Delhi, some from far-off states. This was a growing tribe of professionals, moving to this Delhi suburb that was fast becoming a corporate hub and a melting pot of identities and culture. It would take a while before a new identity would get forged, a Gurugrammer identity that we see today. But what was it like in those early days? And who were the first Gurugrammers? In the second part of our new weekly series, TOI turns the spotlight on the early settlers

 When Suprio and Suman   came to Gurgaon in 1991, there was only one landline in DLF Phase-1 (and just the one bus, which would leave in the morning and come back in the evening). But there was no shortage of camaraderie. The Mukherjees, who in 1994 moved to then-pastoral  , spoke fondly of a time when urban distractions were few and far between, when there was only nature for company. Even now, the whistle from a passing train is a gentle reminder of that Arcadia.
 
 Back then…
 
 A train would pass very near the house, coming from Delhi Cantonment and going towards Bikaner – we’d go up to the terrace and see it coming!
 
 Suprio: I had an aunt here. We moved because Delhi had water problems, and the power situation wasn’t so great either. Here, for half the money, we were getting three times the accommodation.
 
 On either side of our house, there were two plots. One we’d use for growing vegetables, the other for playing badminton.
 
 Suprio: I absolutely fell in love with Gurgaon. It was nature at its most basic and raw, but it was amazing. Just loved it.
 
 To get by, we had to get to know each other. We’d visit each other in our houses — you never called and dropped in, like you have to do now! If we wanted to get together, we’d go ahead and do so. There was no making plans because we had all the time!
 
 The Millennium City (before the new millennium)
 
 In DLF Phase-1, there was this guy who’d deliver bread and cake on his cart, twice every week. And Chakkarpur and Sikanderpur were our village ‘malls’, since they had vegetable shops! But for our monthly groceries, we’d go to Old Gurgaon.
 
 Water was plentiful, but power was a problem — in DLF Phase-1, power cuts in summer would sometimes last for days. Connectivity was probably the biggest challenge. But we survived, it wasn’t too difficult. Actually, apart from 2-3 months of the year, it was nice.
 
 Gurgaon then was small and beautiful. But having become big, it has become ugly.
 
 Nature
 
 Back then, the lake at Damdama had water. You could go and see birds. It was a good drive but an adventure reaching it — Sohna Road was all broken!
 
 Suman: There was a lot of nature around. There were snakes, frogs and butterflies, and peacocks laying eggs. In our front garden in Palam Vihar, we had a fish pond, to which a kingfisher would come. He would catch some fish, take it back to his perch on the tree and then eat it!
 
 Now, while the house sparrows have gone, pigeons have proliferated.
 
 Day to day
 
 Everything was exciting, there was nothing unnerving. If we didn’t get 25 kilos of rice, we’d make do with 20 kilos. We would drive down to Manesar to try a dhaba we’d heard about. Life was interesting, in every way!
 
 We learnt to be organised — petrol should be in the car, food should be on the table, there should be medicines in the house (especially with kids around). I learnt the importance of preventive maintenance, like servicing the car, or checking for water in the inverter. If you took care, life was fine – if you were disorganised, you had it!
 
 Past/present
 
 Because of the green belt out in front, Palam Vihar has retained its character. We haven’t been affected much, because there’s been little change. Even now, if you go out, it’s so peaceful. You can hear cuckoos in the morning and doves in the evening.
 
 
