MUMBAI: When   could finally call his son from under the rubble five hours after the   had collapsed, he knew he would live. Bedridden for two months, Doshi said he couldn’t run to safety and relied on prayers and his “karma” to save him. Karma or not, the fire personnel managed to pull him out alive after 14 hours with no significant injuries. 

 Doshi said there was pitch darkness all around as he lay on his bed for 14 terrifying hours. “Two pillars had fallen on each other about two feet away from my bed. There was enough room for me to breathe though it was absolutely dark inside. It was very scary,” the 54-year-old recalled from his ICU bed in the Shantiniketan Hospital, located at a stone’s throw from the Siddhi Sai Housing Society that had collapsed around 10.46am. It was in the same hospital that Doshi had undergone a procedure for his diabetic foot about two months ago.
 
 All rescue efforts were directed to saving Doshi once he established contact with his son Darshan around 4pm. “There was no network before 4pm. Suddenly the network bars appeared on the mobile screen and I could dial my son and tell him I was alive,” said Doshi. The rescue team took another hour to locate his position and close to five hours to reach him and offer banana, biscuits and four bottles of water. “My anti-diabetic medicines were also administered,” Doshi recalled.
 
 The challenge to get him out continued for the next two and half hours. The rescuers had to cut the pillars before bringing him out alive at around 12.50am. He was rushed to the Shantiniketan Hospital in a breathless condition. “He was vomiting blood and was under tremendous trauma. It took us a few hours to stabilize him,” said Dr Praful Lokhande, who heads the hospital. By Wednesday afternoon, Doshi was stable and conversing with family and friends.
 
 “My prayers kept me alive. I could hear people drilling and talking around me for hours. I was also speaking to my son throughout.” Fire personnel said he was the last survivor to be pulled out. “As he was on the bed and had the mobile in his hand, he could call us,” said Darshan, who along with his mother were out at the time when the accident occurred. The Doshis lived on the second floor.
 
 Around seven people continued to be hospitalised on Wednesday. While four were admitted in the ICU of Shantiniketan, three were undergoing treatment in Rajawadi Hospital. Dr Lokhande said that firefighter Ganesh Thange was stable. Pradnya Jadeja and Riddhi Khulchandani had sustained minor fractures and blunt trauma injuries. At Rajawadi, most patients were stable. Varsha Sakpal (20), who used to work in the premise as an accountant, suffered head injury while Geeta Ramchandani (58) was diagnosed with fracture in lumbar bone.
 
