PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: In a bid to decide on removing unauthorized scrap godowns and shops in Kudalwadi area of Chikhli, the   (PCMC) will hold a meeting of the newly elected corporators of various political parties.

  The meeting is expected to take place after the election of the mayor and appointments of new civic office bearers.
 
 Municipal commissioner   told TOI, “There are 1,498 unauthorized scrap godowns and shops in Kudalwadi as per our survey. Removing them is a gigantic task. A decision on the same will be taken at a meeting of the new corporators. This is necessary as they need to be taken into confidence before taking such a big decision to avoid problems later.”
 
 The scrap godowns and shops are located on private land in a residential zone and can not be permitted to operate there, Waghmare said.
 
 A civic official on condition of anonymity said, “Small and big fires occur regularly at the scrap godowns and shops in Kudalwadi. The scrap dealers utilize all the space in their plots to stack various types of scrap materials leaving very less space for movement of their own workers and vehicles inside the premises. So the fires spread quickly from one godown to another as many of them are separated by tin sheets instead of brick walls.”
 
 He said the scrap godowns and shops are commercial establishments, so they must have primary fire safety measures, which no one has. “They need to keep fire extinguishers as well as construct underground or overhead water tanks to store water that can be used to douse a fire. In case of a fire, fire engines have to travel a long distance to bring water. The roads are narrow, due to which the fire engines cannot manoeuver properly. The regular fires are causing air pollution on a large scale particularly due to burning of rubber, plastic and other goods, which take a toll on human health,” he added.
 
 Newly elected   ( ) corporator Rahul Jadhav told TOI, “Earlier there were less houses around the scrap godowns and shops in Kudalwadi. But now the number of houses has increased and the regular fires occurring in the scrap godowns and shops pose a threat to the residents. We want the unauthorized godowns and shops removed for the safety of the locals.”
 
