Mumbai:   has been the subject of market speculation on a possible merger. In an interview with TOI,  , MD & CEO, dismisses the rumours and draws out her vision for the bank. Excerpts:

 
 
 
 I think it got triggered by Kotak Bank’s need to dilute promoter stake. We are among the top five banks in the country in terms of financial strength and growth parameters, so there is no reason for us to look for a merger. The government has also subsequently clarified in your own newspaper that they see no reason for a merger as far as Axis Bank is concerned. So there is absolutely no basis for the rumour.
 
 
 
 
 The government had a holding of close to 100% at one point of time, which has come down to 11.5%. Nothing of that has ever triggered any conversation around consolidation. The last divestment that the government did was around 10%, which was absorbed very easily by FIIs (foreign institutional investors) and  . That was a time when we did not have enough headroom for FIIs. If and when the government chooses to divest, I am sure there will be enough demand for the shares, given the   headroom. We also do not have any reason to believe there is an imminent divestment because the government has so many other holdings.
 
 
 
 The ordinance gets the focus on resolution. Now, as long as 60% of lenders by value and 50% of lenders by number agree, then you can get a forced decision on all lenders, with no pre-conditions and automatic approval. This forcing mechanism will ensure there is a clearing price. Without the forcing mechanism it would not have been possible to arrive at a fair price as any lender not interested in a decision can hold the others to ransom.Some of the companies sitting there can turn around if they get support at the right moment. There are enough safeguards put in the form of an overseeing committee (OC) which will look at proposals and then take a decision. The   has mandated a process that once an OC has approved a decision, you go ahead and implement it. This also provides protection to executives in decision-making.
 
 
 
 While the process will start, the loans will go into ‘standard asset’ category only after it performs for a year. So if it is already recognised as   (non-performing asset), then it is not going into standard assets in FY18 — that will happen only in FY19. But to the extent that you see cases with incipient stress coming in where they have not become NPAs, there the resolution would have an impact.
 
 
 
 Last year, corporate credit growth had been weak because we have not seen an investment cycle at all. The only place demand for credit can come is working capital, and with wholesale prices remaining low, working capital demand also did not grow. Now that we are seeing an alignment between   and  , we might see working capital demand going up. We might see some investment activity in a couple of sectors. The government housing scheme will kick-start housing investment cycle.
 
 
 
 I hold the view that there will be five-six big public sector banks and five to six large private banks. Our vision is to be very much top of that list. Even today we are by asset size at number seven and already among the largest banks. As shifts in market share happen, we would expect to be among the top four to five banks in the country. In credit cards, we are in the top four despite being a late entrant. Similarly in mutual funds, we are in the top 10 despite being a late entrant. In wealth management, we have the second highest AUM (assets under management).
 
 There has been a divergence between the NPA declared by the bank and the one identified by RBI in its subsequent audit...This is a second order impact of the asset quality review by the RBI in the earlier year when banks were directed to classify some loan as NPAs. Once a company became an NPA with one bank, they stopped paying others as well. Since then, we had classified a large part of loans identified by the RBI as NPA in the first and second quarter.
 
 
 
 
 We are there in insurance as a distributor. When it comes to making best use of capital, we have enough opportunity in the banking space. We are looking at open architecture (in insurance distribution) and we have moved from one company to two and at some point of time we will go up to three.
 
