GURGAON: The state government on Saturday sacked chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s publicity adviser  , just two days after he alleged large-scale corruption at Haryana’s golden jubilee celebrations in Gurgaon two months ago.

 “The services of Shri Jai Bhagwan Mittal alias Rocky Mittal as publicity adviser (audio/visual) and also to assist the government with   celebrations, are hereby dispensed with immediate effect,” state chief secretary DS Dhesi said in an order.
 
 While talking to reporters in the city on Thursday, Mittal had claimed a senior IAS officer who was made in-charge of organising the Haryana Swaran Jayanti celebrations in Gurgaon gave contracts to people known to him. “Over Rs 11 crore was splurged on organising the event, which was attended by Prime Minister  . This event could have been organised in less than Rs 6 crore,” he had said.
 
 Mittal had also claimed that Khattar was being misled by some senior IAS officers and they were not allowing him to take the right decisions. “A list of corrupt officials is being prepared by the state information and public relations department.”
 
 Sources told TOI soon after the claims were reported in the media, the state’s top BJP leadership took note of the same and slapped a show-cause notice on Mittal, whose shot to fame are his songs that he penned in honour of Modi.
 
 “The BJP leadership in the state summoned Mittal and asked him why he was issuing such baseless statements and that, too, against his own government. It is believed the CM also met him and sought an explanation, after which it was decided to remove him from the post of publicity adviser,” sources said.
 
 However, the opposition has claimed Mittal was sacked as he tried to expose the corruption in the BJP government. “Corruption is there at all levels in the government and whoever tries to expose it will be shown the door,” said Karan Singh Dalal, Congress MLA from Palwal.
 
 “Removing him from his post alone will not do. It has to be found out how he managed to get a red beacon-fitted vehicle. A corruption case should also be lodged against him and all others who were involved in this,” he added.
 
 Former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda had earlier ridiculed the idea of Khattar having a publicity adviser.
 
 “This government talks about maximum governance and minimum government, but its actions are completely contrary to what it says. I have never heard of such a post existing in Haryana government ever. By creating such posts, the state government is wasting public money,” he had said.
 
 Despite repeated attempts, Mittal could not be contacted.
 
 
