MANGALURU: The health department will start its second annual Post-filariasis Transmission Assessment   (TAS) in the district in March-April this year.

 This survey is carried out before declaring the district free from  . District Vector-Borne Disease Control Officer S B Arun Kumar said the previous transmission assessment survey was carried out across the district in February 2015 among children aged five years.
 
 World   (WHO) guidelines state that when the number of microfilaria cases detected in a state is less than 20, it qualifies to be declared as filaria-free. TAS conducted among school children in the district in 2015, detected six cases positive for microfilaria, though no new case has been detected in the state since 2010. A total of 1,800 children were covered under the survey. This, Dr. Kumar said, was far below 18, which is the number considered as safe. This survey revealed that there have been no new infections. If the second TAS also turns out with similar results, the district may soon get a tag of filariasis-free district.
 
 Filaria spreads through the culex mosquito that breeds in stagnant water. Unlike malaria and other vector-borne diseases, symptom of filaria become evident only after 10-15 years, and by then it is too late to reverse the condition of the patient. If detected early, microfilaria can be cured successfully. As yet, there is no cure for chronic filaria.
 
 In the 2017 TAS survey, Sullia and Belthangady taluks will not be included since they do not have any cases of lymphatic filariasis. Dr Kumar said random assessment of about 1,800 school kids in three taluks of the district would be done by a computer programme software.
 
 The other districts in   where this disease is prevalent are Kalaburagi, Raichur, Koppal, Vijayapura, Uttara Kannada, Udupi, and Yadgir. According to Journal of Vector Borne Diseases, lymphatic filariasis (LF) is endemic in 83 countries and territories, with more than a billion people at risk of infection. Some 120 million people are affected worldwide of whom about 40 million are incapacitated and disfigured by the disease - elephantiasis.
 
 
