NAGPUR: “Leadership is the biggest factor in application or implementation of any public policy. Lack of leadership in government is the main reason for failure of public policies,” said John Mary Kauzya, chief public administrator, DESA,  , on Monday. 

 Speaking at the valedictory function of the three-day   on ‘Public policy and administration: Issues and concern’, Kauzya said, “The future of any country depends upon its public policies. It provides an opportunity to transform lives of citizens for a sustainable growth. But to make it possible, the mindset of people must be changed.” There are many ideologies in society some of whom evolve while others do not. For transformation, ideologies must evolve with time. Transforming ideology means transforming minds of people for a successful approach,” added Kauzya.
 
 Kauzya emphasized the need for working together of economic and social platforms. “To have an inclusive growth, the work of social and economic platforms needs to come together. These platforms should work together with the help of political institutions to ensure good governance,” he added.
 
 In his valedictory address, Arvind Tiwari, dean,  , TISS, Mumbai, said, “Lack of implementation of public policies is the reason behind the failure of governance. India is a young country, a social capital of development in the world. The young generation should not just criticize the government. Instead, they should come up with an action plan to resolve problems faced in implementation of various policies. Public administrators should first analyse the goals of any public policy and then present their plans for better implementation,” he added. 
 
 Prashant Holkar, superintendent of police, Washim, who was the chief guest at the programme, said, “In the past 15 years, the work of administration has changed. Now, there are many aspects through which we can correct the wrong in public policies. Research from academicians is necessary for good public policies and better implementation is necessary from bureaucrats. So for the success of any public policy, academicians and bureaucrats should work together,” he added
 
 Ajmer Singh Malik, president of Indian   Association, New Delhi, and MP Singh, editor of Indian Journal of Public Administration, New Delhi, were present at the event. Supriya Dravid conducted the programme while Jitendra Wasnik proposed a vote of thanks.
 
 
