Ludhiana: Panjab University has decided to introduce the subject of Goods and Services Tax (GST) in BCom and BBA degree programmes from this academic session.

 Deepak Kapoor, chairman, University Business School, Panjab University, said, “The proposal to introduce GST in the curriculum has been approved by the   in Commerce. The changes have been made to bring students up to date on the new tax norms. It will replace the subject of indirect taxes.” 
 
 Kamal Sharma, PU senate member, said based on the market needs, the syllabus for BCom and related courses has been changed. “We have incorporated two major changes for students from this year. They will be taught how to eliminate VAT and include GST,” he added. 
 
 In a meeting of Undergraduate Board of Studies in Commerce held on Tuesday, it was decided that guest faculty, part-time and contractual teachers, ad hoc faculty and those who have cleared UGC and have three years of teaching experience would be eligible to mark the answer books of undergraduate classes, he added. 
 
 Ashwani Bhalla, Panjab University business management and commerce faculty and SCD Government College, Ludhiana, professor said, “GST has replaced the study content of ‘other indirect taxes’. The GST papers will carry 100 marks.”
 
 GST as an optional subject would be introduced in choice-based credit system (CBCS) from 2018-19. 
 
 Professor Sanjay Gupta, cost management accounting (intermediate), Shri Aurobindo College of Commerce and Management, said, “It could have been an optional subject from this year, but CBCS implementation got postponed to next year,” he added. 
 
 The concept is part of classes XI and XII syllabus, too. But schools rue that none of   books have a chapter on it. 
 
 Drishti Innovative Public School commerce department head Rajesh Khanna said, “The books were published before the July 1 GST rollout. With no information in books, teachers are preparing notes for students.” 
 
 SUBJECT MATTER
 
 Introduced in 2017-2018 session, GST will be part of BCom syllabus in third semester as second paper.
 
 In BBA programme, students will study GST in the fifth semester. The paper will be compulsory for students as core course (compulsory)
 
 
