VADODARA: A total of 27 students from the city including specially-abled students and a twin, cleared the integrated professional competence course (IPCC) on Tuesday as the results of IPCC also known as chartered accountancy (CA) intermediate exams were declared. 

 The   (ICAI) declared the results of the IPCC exams which were held in November last.
 
 The city registered a marginal improvement in IPCC results as 27 out of 519 students who had appeared in the exam cleared both the groups giving 5.20 % results of the November 2016 exam. Earlier, it had registered 4.88 % results in the May 2016 exam. 
 
 The overall result of the city is however much lower compared to the all India pass percent which stood at 32.33%. 
 
 In Group I, a total of 366 students had appeared of which 182 students cleared the exams giving 49.73 % result much better compared to 6.60 % result which was registered in the last attempt. 
 
 Similarly, in Group II, total 465 students had appeared out of which 140 students cleared the exam giving 30.11 % result – which is also better compared to 5.96 % result of the last attempt. 
 
 Wheel-chair ridden  , who is suffering from muscular dystrophy since childhood, was amongst those who cleared both the groups in first attempt. 
 
 Muscular dystrophy, which is presently incurable, is a hereditary condition marked by progressive weakening and wasting of the muscles. 
 
 Shrey had also stood first in Vadodara centre in   (CPT) results of which were declared in January last year. 
 
 “After completing CA, I want to do MBA. Simultaneously, I am pursing correspondence course in B Com in accounting and finance from IGNOU,” said Shrey, whose father Sandip works with GSFC while mother Ketki is a homemaker. 
 
 It was time for celebrations for twins Pankti and  , students of third year bachelors of commerce of M S University’s Faculty of Commerce. Both Pankti and Pragati have cleared their IPCC in first attempt. Interestingly, their results have remained same in HSc, first and second year bachelors of commerce exams.
 
