MUMBAI: The January 30 order of the Supreme Court of India categorically states the following: Mr   shall be the Chairman of the   (to supervise the BCCI). The CEO of   ( ) shall report to the Committee of Administrators (COA) and the administrators shall supervise the management of BCCI.

 Thus, the apex court has laid down the ground rules of who will be in charge of the board's administration, until the time the court-appointed COA ensures smooth election of fresh office-bearers as mentioned in the July 18 order of the SC.
 
 It is clear that a section of BCCI officials haven't read the full order yet. Else, there would have been no debate on Tuesday afternoon over who would convene the meeting of the selection committee in Delhi to pick the Indian team for the one-off Test match against Bangladesh and the India 'A' team for the three practice matches against Australia. Thus, BCCI joint secretary Amitabh Choudhary, who convened the meeting of selectors, was stopped by Rai from going ahead and was categorically told that he was not eligible to attend the meeting.
 
 From the four administrators appointed by the SC - Ex CAG Rai, historian  , former India captain   and IDFC MD   ­ three attended the meeting here in Mumbai. Guha was unable to make it.
 
 These administrators have clearly taken it upon themselves to remind BCCI's officebearers ­ eligible or ineligible ­ that they're the men in charge now and any obstruction to their writ will only be seen as contempt of the country's highest court.
 
 Meanwhile, there's another twist coming up very soon for Choudhary who has been appointed by SC to attend the International Cricket Council's (ICC) board meeting on February 4, albeit with a rider. The court said that Chaudhary can attend the meeting as a 'one-off ' case because he's well-versed with the affairs at ICC, but added that he would have to attend the meeting alongside Limaye.
 
 However, as the ICC Board meeting allows only one representative to sit at the table, Limaye, by virtue of being the SC-appointed administrator, will attend the meeting. "Why will   (ICC Chairman) make an exception for two members to sit in the meeting when that's not the rule," a source in the know of things said.
 
 TOI has also learned that BCCI CEO Johri will attend the ICC's chief executives meeting on February 2. 
 
 
 
 
 
 The office-bearers of the BCCI ­ still eligible under the   norms but rendered redundant in the backdrop of the January 30 Supreme Court order ­ are all set to head back to the apex court on Wednesday seeking clarification over their roles. After Tuesday's drama surrounding the selection committee meeting, sources told TOI that the board office-bearers ­ led by joint secretary Amitabh Choudhary ­ are likely to request the court to throw light on what his and his team's role is in the current circumstances. However, sources added that SC ­ which had asked these office-bearers to submit an undertaking that they will implement the Lodha Committee reforms ­ is unlikely to entertain the request considering that the undertaking has been filed with several caveats. 
 
