CHANDIGARH: Cricketer-turned-politician Navjot Singh Sidhu’s name was missing from Congress’s third list of candidates for the assembly polls in Punjab on February 4, further fuelling speculation on whether he will join the party and contest the polls. His close aide and former   MLA Pargat Singh, who has joined the party with Sidhu’s wife, too was not named in the list.

 The latest list has named 23 candidates but held back 17 of the most contentious names. This, even as the process of filing nomination papers has begun and will end on January 18. This included Amritsar East represented by Sidhu’s wife Navjot Kaur. Sources said Sidhu has refused to join the party till Pargat is given a seat of his choice. While Pargat prefers the Jalandhar Cantonment seat, it is believed that   wants to give him Nakodar near Jalandhar.
 
 Many in Congress feel that the brass has started flirting with danger with its cautious approach. They feel that if the last few names are delayed any further, candidates will get very little time to campaign. Also, there will be no elbowroom to firefight a rebellion if one breaks out. The situation is starkly similar to the 2012 election when candidates were announced at the 11th hour.
 
 Sticking to its ‘one-familyone-ticket rule’, the party will field Karmjit Kaur Chaudhary, wife of Jalandhar MP Santokh Singh Chaudhary, from Phillaur (SC), while from Samana it is Rajinder Singh, son of Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee senior vicepresident, who will be fielded.
 
 Even though a section of party members were expecting   Gubaya, son of sitting Akali MP Sher Singh Gubaya, to be fielded against deputy CM Sukhbir Singh Badal from Jagraon, he has been nominated from Fazilka, on the third list, which consists of two women candidates, taking the total number of women to 10.
 
 Among the former Akali members, Kamaljit Singh Karwal, considered an aide of the Bains brothers in Ludhiana, has been chosen as the “most suitable candidate” to fight on the Congress ticket from Atam Nagar. Another ex-Akali member to find his name in the list is Pritam Singh Kotbhai from Bucho Mandi. Deepinder Singh Dhillon (Dera Bassi) and Rajwinder Kaur Bhagikay (Nihal Singh Wala-SC) are the other former Akali members on the list.
 
 Expressing satisfaction at the candidate selection, Punjab Congress president Captain   said the remaining 17 seats would also be declared soon.
 
