BENGALURU: The   on   is a turf for over 200 drivers, who make merry with their heavy vehicles parked around. Sharing space and camaraderie with the men is a gutsy woman, who traverses highways to ferry tonnes of goods to every nook and corner of Karnataka.

 Meet Jyothi R, a 34-year-old mother of two teenagers, who’s the only   in Bengaluru. Sipping coffee next to her Tata 1613 at the bustling truck stand, Jyothi is expecting a load of 10 tonnes of steel to be transported to Mysuru. “It was my childhood dream to own a truck and it was fulfilled in 2011 when I bought it with my husband. But the new purchase came with some trouble as we appointed drivers to transports loads. Thirty-three of them cheated us and left us with mounting debts,” says Jyothi woman, who decided to get behind the wheel and take care of the business.
 
 It was Jyothi who taught her husband Parashiva Murthy (39) how to drive a truck, but his lack of confidence forced her to take the wheels. Her first drive was in June 2014, when she tranported steel-fencing material from Nayandahalli to Hoodi industrial area. There has been no looking back for the T Narasipura woman, who began ferrying construction material on a regular basis to Mangaluru, Mysuru, Hassan, Davanagere and others part of the state, accompanied by Murthy as the cleaner.
 
 “She is the tiger of the Nayandahalli stand and we all stand by her. She has faced harassment by cops and transport officials, but she was undeterred and carried on only to support her family,” says Narasimhaiah, a fellow driver at the stand.
 
 Jyothi does eight to nine trips a month, manoeuvring the vehicle through highways and bottlenecks. With she and her husband taking turns to drive these days, Murthy credits his wife with giving him the much-needed confidence. Apart from a few hooligan drivers on the highway, Jyothi says a majority of the male drivers support her and are in awe of a woman being behind the wheels of a heavy vehicle.
 
 With a single trip lasting not less than three days, Jyothi rests in her truck wherever she halts for unloading. Night driving is vital in her line of duty. “She is the only woman   in Bengaluru operating across districts. She is extremely hardworking like the menfolk. We all admire her,” says BV Narayanappa, general secretary, Federation of Karnataka State Lorry Owners and Agents Association.
 
 
 
 
 Driving a truck isn’t a cakewalk for a woman, but Jyothi enjoys her profession despite all odds. But she claims the state’s sand restrictions have hit truckers hard. “We are struggling with debt and the government has been turning a blind eye to the problem,” says Jothi, who fears if the crisis continues, she will be forced to sell her vehicle. However, Jyothi can’t imagine a life without the vehicle, and plans to drive a school bus to ferry cheerful children.
 
 
