LUCKNOW: The executive council of the   on Wednesday formed a three-member committee headed by a retired high court judge to probe charges of misconduct against five professors, including J V Vashampayan, who is currently on leave from LU and serving as vice-chancellor of Chhatrapati Shahu Ji Maharaj   University.

 Three professors are facing allegations of increasing marks of students by tampering records, while two have been charged with misrepresenting facts at the time of appointment. 
 
 Governor Ram Naik, chancellor of state universities, had directed   to take action as per rules in the case of the professors accused of tampering answer copies. He also attached a report of the vigilance department which had probed the matter earlier. The vigilance probe was conducted on the complaint of another professor Nar Singh (now retired) lodged in 2012. 
 
 LU EC constituted the committee to probe charges against the three professor. It also handed the committee the case of two other professors who have been accused of misrepresenting facts. 
 
 “The committee will be headed by retired high court judge Alok Kumar, retired DGP K L Gupta and Lucknow University vice-chancellor S P Singh and will submit its report within a month. Allegations of tampering answer-copies have been levelled against three professors J V Vaishampayan, Rachna Mujju and R K Maheshwari, all from the applied economics department. Former head of Journalism and Mass-communication R C Tripathi and Sukant Chowdhury of Sociology department, are facing charges of misrepresenting facts at the time of appointment,” LU vice-chancellor SP Singh told TOI. 
 
 The executive council also gave approval to LU for Bachelor in Engineering and Technology (BTech) courser from this academic session. 
 
 Five associated colleges got EC approval to start BCom courses from the coming session. These five colleges are Shashi Bhushan Girls College, Isabella Thoburn College, Lala Mahadev Prasad Verma Balika Mahavidyalaya, City College of Management and Narvadeshwar Management College. 
 
