It's indeed a defining moment in the life of any aspiring singer, when the living legend and music maestro A. R Rahman praises his or her vocal abilities. All the Li’l Champs received what they consider the highest honour and the most coveted compliment of their life.
 
  
 
  
 
  
  And, it came their way in the form of a few words of praise from none other than the Oscar-winning music maestro A.R Rahman. On   Special Weekend this Saturday (May 13) at 9:00 PM on Zee TV, catch the internationally acclaimed musical genius A.R. Rahman as a celebrity guest on India's No.
  
  1 singing reality show Sa Re Ga Ma Pa Li’l Champs to promote the highly anticipated movie ‘MOM’ and to encourage the current season’s super-talented contestants with his musical genius & experience! As a double bonanza over the weekend, on Sunday (May 14), the gorgeous   will up the glitz and glam quotient of the most anticipated evening of this season.
  
  
  The episode starts with quite a bang! All the Top 10 contestants, who were waiting with bated breath to perform in front of the music wizard, gave power-packed performances. Mr. Rahman was floored by the pool of talent so much so that he couldn’t stop praising the tiny singing prodigies and even shared some priceless tips on improving their singing prowess.
  
  On hearing 11-year-old Li’l Champ from Kolkata - Shreyan Bhattacharya sing Rahman’s popular number ‘Maa Tujhe Salaam’, the music legend became nostalgic and remembered the recording of the song. He said, “Your singing took me back to 1997 when I had sung this composition. There is something going on with this generation, they sing like ustaads at such a young age.
  
  I’m honored to be here on the sets of Sa Re Ga Ma Pa Li’l Champs and furthermore honored that the current generation is still singing my songs. I thoroughly enjoyed all the performances and must say that these kids are phenomenally talented and have a long way to go.”
  
  Well that’s not all! The music maestro gave a lifetime opportunity to 12-year old Orissa boy Satyajeet Jena. Impressed by his singing and his talent to compose music, when Rahman was informed that this li'l dhamaaka is a music composer too, he requested Satyajeet to perform, as he wanted to listen to his composition.
  
  Spell-bound by his abilities, Rahman immediately offered Jena a week-long internship at his studio. Well, not even in his wildest dreams would this Li’l Champ have imagined landing such a rare opportunity with the musician he idolised.
  
  When 14 year old Shanmukhpriya from Vishakhapatnam sang Rahman's Jazz-infused Jaane Tu Ya Jaane Na, he commended her choice for singing a challenging genre. Having reassured her that her pitch and tonality was spot on, he gave her feedback that would help her take her Jazz renditions to the next level.
  
  He requested jury member and playback singer Suzanne D'Mello' to give a sample of her breezy, airy vocal quality. Suzanne graciously demonstrated and coached Shanmukhapriya on this specialised vocal style, post which the Li'l Champ performed a Jazz vocal routine with flair and aplomb.
  
  Clearly, the Master that Rahman is, he wasn't about to leave without adding value to each contestant's musical journey.
  
  Over the last few weeks, the talent pool from the current season of Sa Re Ga Ma Pa Li’l Champs has been receiving appreciation and applause from all quarters. Be it the show’s very own mentors - Himesh, Javed and Neha Kakkar, the 30 jury members or celebrities like  , Shradha Kapoor, Parineeti Chopra,  ,  ,   and Udit Narayan who’ve visited the sets recently, everyone’s praising them to the moon and beyond.
