KOCHI: A city gets its character from its theatres and museums, said renowned writer MT Vasudevan Nair. Whenever he travelled to a new place he would first enquire about the art centres, Nair said. 

 Speaking at the inaugural session of the diamond jubilee celebrations of the   in Kochi on Saturday, the Jnanpith recipient said, "It is a matter of pride to have an art centre in the city." MT described art as a journey in  . He said it may not be possible reach the end or 'essence', but it was worth to embark on the voyage.
 
 Emphasising on the value of arts and culture to the society, he said artists can change people's perceptions. Nair recounted Mahatma Gandhi's lack of interest in cinema. It was when Gandhi met   in London that his opinion changed. "To one of Gandhi's questions Chaplin replied that artists entertained and enlightened people. Gandhi was impressed. And his objection to cinema also diminished," he said. Speaking on the occasion,   criticized the concept of megastars and superstars. "The essence of art is completely lost in movie making. There is no story, and no imagination. It's all about money," he said. The minister spoke on the cultural significance of fine arts and also the need to promote such performances. 
 
 "Fine arts is not something to be performed before foreigners," he said adding that people should learn to appreciate their "own culture."
 
 The function honoured artist Namboodiri for his contributions. In his speech Namboodiri said, "I got the opportunity to draw illustrations for works of eminent writers. I illustrated for MT's 'Randamoozham' and 'Varanasi'. Governor P Sathasivam reminded the audience how the Kerala Fine Arts Society started functioning in Kochi. He appreciated the growth of the society as well as the efforts taken by them to promote art in the city.
 
 The governor inaugurated the diamond jubilee celebrations. A photo exhibition on the history of Kerala Fine Arts Society and major cultural events conducted by them in the last 60 years is also being held.
 
  The cultural programmes, as part of the celebrations and the photo exhibition will be held till January 11. 
 
