Mumbai:   International’s global head of tax,  , views India’s budget as a ‘balanced’ one for most MNCs. But she adds that the top basic headline rate of 30% is high, compared to global standards. In an interview during her recent visit to the country, she shares some global best practices that India could emulate. Excerpts:

 Is India’s   rate of 30% attractive for foreign investors, given the lower headline corporate tax rate in neighbouring China and other countries?
 
 In India, companies having a turnover of less than Rs 50 crore (based on the financial year 2015-16) pay an effective tax rate of 28.84% (or a basic rate of 25%). For others, it is 34.6% (or a basic rate of 30%). This headline rate of 30% is looking high by global standards as everyone is reducing their tax rates. In China, it is 25% and in UK 20%. We think that the US tax reforms may reduce their corporate tax rate of 35% to 25% or rather 20%. The average in OECD countries (most developed regimes are OECD members) is close to 25%. However, it is important to note that as countries reduce their headline tax rate, they are also widening their tax base. Over time, the Indian government will have to think about it — whether it really wants to have a rate that looks high by global standards. That said, for international investors, predictability of the tax system and   are much bigger issues.
 
 Which are the top three best practices that India could adopt when it comes to tax policy and tax administration?
 
 The first is having a process by which legislation is enacted, digitisation — which India has already adopted to a large extent — and betterment of dispute resolution are others.
 
 Proper Process: A number of countries have a clearer road map and a process. In the UK, the government announces a policy. This is followed by a period of consultation on how the policy can be achieved, and only subsequently is the legislation drafted. The only exception to this process of consultation is regarding anti-avoidance provisions. This helps avoid the missteps that we sometimes have when legislation is brought forth and brings about unintended consequences. A burning topic of conversation during my visit has been the unintended consequences arising out of the proposal to levy long-term capital gains on unlisted shares that are sold post listing, for which clarifications are now awaited.
 
 Digitisation: India, with the introduction of GST and the demonetisation process, is heading very quickly in this direction. This is the right road to take and other countries have benefited. Over a period of time it is also possible to reward honest taxpayers. The real issue is the journey, which is not free from pain. Brazil has introduced a technology-based system in its realm of indirect taxes in 2008, referred to as the SPED system. First, it has helped create a level playing field as all companies were obliged to issue electronic tax invoices to do business. Secondly, the parallel economy was reduced or almost eliminated in some specific sectors. Thirdly, there is more up-to-date economic data per sector available to the government through one single official database. It enables tax authorities to carry out electronic tax audits on practically all Brazilian companies. It is possible to cross-check information provided by a given company with the information from suppliers, clients and banks. Electronic payroll reporting and inventory controls are expected to be mandatory in Brazil by 2018.
 
 Dispute Resolution Process: India has made good progress on building confidence with foreign investors on the litigation front — this needs to be stepped up. The Good Management Rule (or the Model Litigant Rule) introduced in Australia in 2005 requires tax authorities to endeavour where possible to avoid, prevent and limit the scope of legal proceeding by considering Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR). This has significantly cut down on court litigation — of 26,000 disputes in 2015 (a minuscule number in itself), only 150 were taken to court.
 
 
