KOLKATA: Seventy-six years after it became part of the great escape - taking   from his   to   to catch the   to Delhi - the iconic   has been restored to its original  .
 
 On January 18, Sugata Bose, Netaji's grand-nephew and Trinamool MP, will drive the car with President Pranab Mukherjee on the rear seat to commemorate the 75th anniversary of the great escape. Bose has been practising driving the 1937 make car for the past few days.
 
 The sedan was driven regularly till 1957 by Sugata's father, Sisir Kumar Bose, who was also at the wheel during Netaji's escape from Kolkata.
 
 The restoration of the 1.8-litre limousine was not an easy job with the original maker, Auto Union of Germany, having shut down after World War II. But one of the four entities that the company metamorphosed into, Audi, was a big help.
 
 “Audi gave technical expertise and a vintage car restorer, Pallab Roy, and his team started working in May 2016 to restore it fully. It is the most prized possession of the Netaji Research Bureau museum. Now, once a week, people will see this car in motion in the driveway of the building," said Sugata.
 
 The great escape was meticulously planned by Netaji - who was under 24x7 surveillance of the British - with his nephew Sisir. “There was a great deal of discussion on the choice of car. First it was decided to use the car of his elder brother, Sarat Chandra Bose. But it was too well known. Then it was decided to take the Wanderer, which was bought by Sarat Chandra Bose and registered (BLA 7169) in the name of Sisir Bose, my father. Back in 1937, the 1.8-litre four-door limo cost him Rs 4,680,“ said Sugata. It was in the middle of the night on January 16, 1941, that Netaji left home in the guise of Mohammed Ziauddin. He took the rear seat as Sisir, then only 21, drove the Wanderer from Kolkata to Gomoh and back.
 
 Sisir Bose continued to drive the car till 1957. “I remember riding it regularly after my marriage in 1955," recalled Krishna Bose, wife of Sisir Bose and a former MP. “By then, the car had got a fresh coat of a black paint. Later, it was painted grey. Even as a baby, Sugata, my elder son, took many a drive in that car with us. At times it used to break down and I have so many memories of having to push it down Rashbehari Avenue," said Krishna Bose, now the chairperson of NRB Pallab Roy, who has suc cessfully restored a 1928 Studebaker President 8 State Limousine and a Mercedes 230 S 1967, was roped in by Audi in May 2016 to restore the car.
 
 “Audi took me to Netaji Bhaban and I immediately agreed because it was a chance to be part of history,“ said Roy. He started work on July 1 and will formally hand over the refurbished car to NRB on Tuesday. “We did it in record time. A restoration work like this takes more than a year. But this job was like a passion for me and I worked round the clock. My son, Sourav, too helped me," he added. The real challenge was to restore the engine, which was “in a bad shape“, he said. Sugata Bose said the restoration is also a tribute to some excellent mechanics of Bengal.
 
