NASHIK: Chief minister   has said he will soon spell out the priorities to bolster Nashik’s development. 

 The chief minister responded to a TOI query sent to him by SMS requesting him to share his priorities for the city since his party has come to power in  . The BJP swept to power for the first time on its own in Nashik with an impressive 66 seats in the 122-member body.
 
 “The priorities will be spelt out soon,” Fadnavis replied back in a text message. 
 
 All eyes in Nashik are on the chief minister’s next move, especially since he announced during the election campaign that he would adopt Nashik if the city’s electorate votes for BJP to enable it to come to power in the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC). 
 
 During the rally, Fadnavis had assured personal attention towards the development and growth of Nashik by adopting the city. “I am making an announcement now that I am adopting Nashik as my city. I vow to personally look after every aspect of Nashik’s development and complete all projects that my party has promised for the city.”
 
 “Some people may have a notion that I am ignoring Nashik for my hometown Nagpur. But, that is not true. Union minister   alone is capable of developing Nagpur. Henceforth, development of Nashik will be my responsibility,” he said, as thousands of Nashikites at the venue raised their hands to show their support to the idea. 
 
 Fadnavis’s announcement had an immense impact on the voters, who were looking for some assurance regarding the city’s development, claimed the city unit of BJP. 
 
 Shiv Sena, who many had predicted as the clear favourite to win the elections in Nashik, was placed second with just 35 seats. The elections concluded with a whimper for other major parties such as   and Congress-Nationalist Congress Party alliance. 
 
 Nashik has been plagued by several civic problems and issues like Godavari pollution, shoddy plight of the city’s bus services, weak garbage collection mechanism, lack of pavements for pedestrians in busy thoroughfares need urgent attention from BJP that is set to come to power in the civic body. 
 
 Sources in the Nashik Municipal Corporation said the new regime should focus on some of the important sectors that need immediate attention. 
 
 “Traffic management should be given high importance. This includes taking over the management of the city public bus services so that the commuters can be assured for affordable and quality public transport system, decongestion of the city roads for smooth movement of vehicles and pedestrians, installation of CCTVs at vantage points across the city,”said a NMC official. 
 
 Solid waste management, which include garbage collection from homes, and cleanliness of the city should be the other areas that must be focused on to ensure that Nashik has very high level of cleanliness. 
 
 “The cleanliness of the rivers, including Godavari, must be on the   list of the new regime. This issue has been lingering for quite a long time and needs immediate attention,” added the official.
 
 Even some of the newly-elected corporators had said that they want improvement in the public transport system, especially for the connectivity between the outskirts and the city areas. Better lit streets and roads were some of the other demands of the citizens. 
 
