VISAKHAPATNAM: Newly appointed panchayat raj minister   is a man on a mission. His aim is to ensure that sarpanches in Andhra Pradesh get Rs 2,000 crore in 2018 from the finance commission and that each one of them is provided Rs 25 lakh for development works.

 “Bigger panchayats would get Rs 3 crores. The state government has already laid cement roads spread over 10,000 km in the rural areas. Our aim is to transform rural AP by ushering in unprecedented development,”   told   in an exclusive interview during lunch break of his tour of Ankapalli and Payakaraopet constituencies in Vizag district on Friday.
 
 According to Lokesh, laying of roads and providing drinking water in the rural areas are the biggest challenged facing him. “The government will lay new roads with Nabard funds. On the issue of drinking water, we will provide it through the NTR Sujala Sravanthi that was successfully implemented in Kuppam. Towards that end, we have set up a call centre and sent messages to all sarpanches. The aim is to provide drinking water at the door step of a village resident within six hours,” he said.
 
 When asked whether two years will be sufficient to bring all these projects to reality, Lokesh said the focus will be to execute them at the earliest as the next two years will see the party in the election mode. Asked about the comments made on him by opposition leader and YSR Congress president Jaganmohan Reddy, Lokesh said he is also the son of a chief minister but that he does not behave like him. “I am bound by ethics. Power is not new to me as when I was born, my grandfather was the chief minister. I can also live like a raja in Hyderabad but I have entered politics in order to serve the people. Barking dogs will always bark. I will show my efficiency with my work,” he said.
 
 On his performance as IT minister, Lokesh said within one month of taking over, he has brought seven IT companies to AP and generated 12,600 jobs. “The Million Towers proposal will take off soon and my aim is to ensure that in the next two years, the state gets one lakh jobs in the IT sector and five lakh jobs in various industries. We also aim to promote Vizag in a big way as an IT destination in view of its cosmopolitan culture,” he said.
 
