PATNA:  , which has seen several important rallies in the past, witnessed one of the   of the world on Saturday. The maidan was the nerve centre of more than 11,000-km long   formed across  . 

 The Gandhi Maidan stands testimony to many historic rallies, including that of Mahatma Gandhi, Jawahar Lal Nehru, Mohammad Ali Jinnah, Subhash Chandra Bose and Loknayak Jayprakash Narayan. Subhash Chandra Bose had organised an important meeting of his Forward Bloc at the ground in 1939, a year after its formation. In 1974, Loknayak Jayprakash Narayan had launched his ‘Sampoorn Kranti’ (total revolution) from the same Gandhi Maidan to oust Congress from power.
 
 The ground has also seen many caste-based and political rallies, which changed the course of Indian politics. Be it Kurmi Chetna rally of Nitish Kumar in 1994, Garib rally by RJD supremo Lalu Prasad in 1995, ‘Maha Raila’ in 1996 and ‘lathi me tel pilawan’ rally in 2003, Adhikar rally by Nitish Kumar in 2012 or Hunkar rally by the then BJP’s prime ministerial candidate Narendra Modi in 2013, Gandhi Maidan has seen it all. However, cutting across political affiliations, religion, caste and creed, people from all walks of life gathered at Gandhi Maidan on Saturday for a noble cause – liquor-free society. The historic event had nothing to do with politics.
 
 “We have achieved the world record,” said a human chain participant. Others, who participated in the historic event, echoed his tone.
 
 Chief minister Nitish Kumar started the event by releasing balloons in the air and standing in the human chain along with RJD supremo Lalu Prasad,  , legislative council chairman Awdhesh Narayan Singh and others. The ‘Bihar Gaan’ in the background created a sense of patriotism among the participants. Deputy CM Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, state education minister Ashok Chaudahry and health minister Tej Pratap Yadav were also present in the chain at Gandhi Maidan.
 
 The 45-minute event concluded at 1pm with CM’s message, “Bihar has laid the foundation for a social change.” 
 
 Education department principal secretary R K Mahajan said at least 70,000 students from different schools and colleges in the city voluntarily participated in the event. 
 
 Womenfolk seemed to be most excited. Patna City resident Yasmeen Bano, who was present at Gandhi Maidan, said, “We are happy with liquor ban in the state. There is now peace in in all houses.”
 
 Akhil Vishwa Bharti Parishad zonal head Ashok Kumar too hailed the Bihar government for enforcing total prohibition in the state. Former St Michael’s principal and co-ordinator of Jesuit Alumni Association, Fr Peter Arockiasamy said prohibition would give healthy life to all which in turn lead to healthy Bihar. Kawaljeet Singh, a resident of Punjabi Colony, said the Punjab government should learn a lesson from Bihar and impose prohibition there.
 
