JAIPUR: Agreements signed in the   during the Resurgent Rajasthan are proving to be a major disappointment for the state government. Despite big promises, the major firms have failed to back their commitments. Apart from that, sectors like tourism and mines too have reamined let down in getting the  . 

 As per the figures available, nine firms signed   (MoU) worth Rs 1,90,000 crore during Resurgent Rajasthan in solar projects. Most of the agreements were for the investments in solar parks while rest was for power generation.
 
 However, officials pointed that despite making promises, some firms are yet to turn up for fulfilling their commitments. “Biggest disappointment was Reliance which signed MoUs worth Rs 25,000 crore but not even made headway in identifying land in the state. We have approached them but not received any response,” said an official. 
 
 Along with them, the two international firms expressed their interest and signed MoUs of total Rs 36,000 crore. Official’s claim that very little has happened on these agreements. 
 
 Though there has been some advancement by three firms and Rajasthan Renewable Energy Corporation. Adani Enterprises Ltd, Essel Infraprojects Ltd and IL&FS Energy Development Company Ltd, have made significant advancement and bought land where development is underway. The total investments from all three groups combined together are Rs 47,000 crore. 
 
 Apart from that tourism sector where 221 MoUs of worth Rs 10442 crore were signed, no single project has been implemented. In mining sector 25 agreements amounting Rs 76057 crore out of which only one project has been implemented.
 
 “In toursim the major issues is of land conversion while in mining though there were commimtents but lack of mining rules have forced promtoers to keep their investment on hold” added the official. Sector which showed maximum conversion is textiles where almost all MoUs have been implemented. Around Rs 6,500 crore in textile sector and most of the projects in this has already been grounded.
 
 As per available data, out of 470 MoUs inked during and after the event, total 34 MoUs have been implemented bringing investment of Rs 5,000 crore. Total 87 MoUs worth Rs 65,000 crore are under construction while 136 MoUs with investment of Rs 50,000 crore are at several stages of clearance. 
 
 Some of the projects are stuck due to land availability, paucity of funds on part of investors or because of their focus on other projects instead of what promised at RR. “As far as land is concerned we constantly focusing on it and trying to resolve the issue with promoters by involving JDA and UITs. For other factors there is not much that state government could do,” said an official from industry department. 
 
 Planned to organize Resurgent Rajasthan as a biennial event, the state government has dropped the idea to organise the event this year. The last time it was held in 2015 and next edition was scheduled for 2017. Official claim that despite relatively better success rates compared to other investment meets in the country, a formal structure could not be established. Maintaining that priority of the government is to implement the announcement rather than making new ones.
 
