NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court’s landmark judgement banning use of religion, caste, race, language and community in electioneering has left open many loopholes, given the ingenuity of political parties and candidates in canvassing for votes. 

 Name of none of the national political parties has the identity of a religion inscribed in it. But there are several state political parties which either have a language or race inscribed in them — Telugu Desam of Andhra Pradesh, Mizo National Front, Naga People’s Front and the use of word Dravida in almost all big parties in Tamil Nadu. Would seeking vote in the name of their party amount to seeking vote in the name of language or race? 
 
 Religion is inscribed in the name of two state political parties —   (Kerala) and All India Majlis-E-Ittehadul Muslimeen (Telangana). Would their candidates fall foul of the SC judgement if they seek vote in the name of their party? 
 
 Similar predicament is faced by many other registered yet unrecognised parties — Akhil Bharat Hindu Mahasabha (Delhi),   (Maharashtra), Paschim Banga Rajya Muslim League, All India Christian Democratic and Backward People’s Party (both West Bengal), Christian Democratic Front, Christian Mannetra Kazhgam, Indian Christian Front and Indian Christian Secular party (All Tamil Nadu), Sehajdhari Sikh Party (Punjab) and   and Muslim Majlis (both UP). 
 
 The SC judgement is also silent on the eventuality when a religious or a linguistic leader appeals on those counts to voters to support a particular candidate without the candidate giving consent to that leader for the purpose of canvassing in the elections. Given the secrecy in such dealings between candidates and religious leaders, it would be very difficult for a person bringing charges of corrupt practice against candidates to garner evidence of the candidate’s consent for canvassing votes on his behalf in the name of religion, race, caste, community or language. 
 
 Sources in some political parties said the only fallout of this judgement would be an unprecedented spurt on election petitions before the courts. Every election will now be challenged before the court citing corrupt practices by the winning candidate citing one or the other reason mentioned in the SC judgement. 
 
 The apex court though has clarified that anyone bringing charge of corrupt practice under Section 123(3) of the Representation of People Act would have to provide evidence before the court took cognisance of the allegations.
 
