Nagpur: City police chief K Venkatesh on Friday formally announced formations of 29 units of ‘Nagpur traffic clubs’ (N-TraCs) across the city inviting alert citizens to join them to be able to participate in active policing for monitoring issues like unhindered vehicular flows, encroachments on carriageways, illegal parking and such other concerns. The clubs would be formed on the platform of social media which would be also it’s primary bridge of communication. 

 Venkatesh, who addressed a press conference at city polices’ in-house training centre ‘N-Cops excellence’ flanked by DCP traffic, Ravindrasing Pardeshi and Zonal DCP Rakesh Ola, laid down the basic aims for forming N-TraCs stating that the units primary objective would be to ensure that there is a public participation in resolving traffic issues. N-TraCs was conceptualized by the top cop and his traffic team on the basis of the suggestions received from citizens and section of media. Though there had been an earlier attempt to organize the local groups in different localities by the respective traffic chambers for public coordination and volunteers, this is the first time that the scheme is being revamped with a more concrete plan.
 
 Venkatesh said every traffic chambers have been sub-divided into beats, on the lines of police stations, each of which shall have an unit of N-TraCs functioning under it. “Every traffic beat officers would form social media groups on WhatsApp with interested citizens as members who would be inducted only after certain screening exercise to ensure that none with vested interest or criminal background finds a place,” he said. “The traffic beat officer would be the administrator of the group who would monitor the communications of chats and coordinate with the concerned member to address the issues. There would be periodic meetings in which the problems would be discussed and sorted out,” said CP. 
 
 Venkatesh also said that citizens are welcome to discuss the traffic issues in the group where they perform a range of activities from pointing out a glitch to suggest a solution regarding local problems, accidents and mishaps and vehicular flows. “Traffic police is not just keen in raising the numbers of cases done on the roads by the constables but to reach at the desired outcome. It is much more important for us to reduce the fatal accidents which had taken place due to drivers or riders under influence of alcohol than to statistically taking up the numbers of cases of drunken driving higher,” he said. Venkatesh underlined the fact that the goal oriented policing in the traffic wing would be the hallmark of the specialized wing in the coming days.
 
 Venkatesh, buoyed by the success in de-congesting Dhantoli locality, said similar systematic approach would be repeated wherever there is a problem waiting to be addressed. He also said the documents of some hospitals and commercial complexes are being verified to ensure whether they have adequate parking facilities as claimed to obtained permissions from the concerned departments. “We are also coordinating with Metro and other agencies engaged in road or bridge constructions so as to ensure maximum comfort for the motorists and riders,” he said. 
 
 
