Actress Zaira Wasim’s ‘confession/apology’ in response to being bullied online has once again opened a debate on the nuisance of trolling. It has led to the internet increasingly turning into a cesspool of violence and hatred. Given the rise of horror stories of online  , counsellors and cyber experts point out that the cloak of anonymity that the web space provides is to be blamed for it. Says Harish Iyer, cyber security expert, “The internet has certainly grown darker. Trollers misusing and abusing on social media is on the rise. Blame not just the anonymity and easy flow of information, but also the lack of conscience for this.” Adds psychiatrist Dr 
Harish Shetty, “Total strangers play absolute havoc in a person’s life by trolling. There is so much misguided anger around and people look for targets to unleash it on; it makes them feel good.” The recent spurt of incidents affirm these observations...
 
 
 
  
  
 Two days ago, 16-year-old Zaira was trolled with a spate of hate messages for being an actress and meeting J & K Chief Minister,   Sayeed. She posted an apology for ‘offending’ and ‘unintentionally hurting’ people. She wrote, “I know that many people have been offended and displeased by my recent actions or by the people I have recently met. I want to apologise to all those people who I’ve unintentionally hurt and I want them to know that I understand their sentiments. The first and foremost thing is that I am being projected as a role model for Kashmiri Youth. I want to make it very clear that I do not want anyone to follow in my footsteps or even consider me as a role model.” She then deleted the post, and wrote another message, asking everyone to not blow the issue out of proportion, but deleted that post as well. Her apology drew indignation and support from the corners of society. 
    came out in support of Zaira online, and called her ‘a role model for him’.   wrote, “Where is the #azaadi? This is a real step back. U are a real #RoleModel and u need not worry or be scared #ZairaWasim We are all with you.”   wrote, “Trolls have no religion. They just have a wing: Right-wing. #ZairaWasim.”
  “It’s a shame she was pressurised/coerced into issuing an apology. For what?” fumes columnist Shobhaa De. “She’s a young, non-political actor — why troll her? I want Zaira to know she has the support of all right thinking Indians. There is absolutely nothing she needs to feel bad about,” she adds. 
 
 
  
 Last year,   was trolled for her beau, Virat Kohli’s performance, forcing the latter to come out in her defence. “Stop trolling Anushka,” tweeted Virat. This January, cricketer Mohammed Kaif faced criticism online for doing the Surya Namaskar. Cricketer Mohammed Shami slammed   after he was hounded for posting a picture of his wife in a gown. And age is no bar when it comes to trolling someone. Saif Ali Khan and   bore the brunt of troll fury less than 24 hours after their baby’s birth, all for their choice of his name — Taimur. 
 
 
 Gone are the days when you had a right to view your thoughts freely. Three days ago, South actress Trisha was in the line of fire for her association with an animal rights group after the SC banned   (traditional bull taming sport, which is played as part of the Pongal celebrations). She was trolled and attacked, and several obscene memes/posters about her were doing the rounds. Her account was also hacked. The trolling became so intense that she was forced to deactivate her account. 
 It’s not just a result of the dark side of fame, you could also be trolled next. Admits city-based investor, Vistasp Kaikobad, “I have been trolled for my political views and it got very nasty. I realised if I let things go, it would only get worse. So I took on the trolls one-on-one,” he says. 
 For someone who has also tasted such online venom on more than one occasion, how did Shobhaa De deal with it? She admits the key is to stay calm. “Anonymity provides protection to these hate-filled people. Personally, I am not bothered. I think trolling has become a national menace; I ignore trolls and consider them the worst cowards,” she states. 
 
 
 
 The tech-savvy, campus crowd also doesn’t take trolls seriously, especially in the wake of revelations that likes, tweets, trends and even trolling a rival are manufactured. In her book, journalist Swati Chaturvedi wrote about how political parties hired people to abuse, blackmail and threaten those who criticised them on social media. Says Suchitra Nanda, a third year student at a suburban college, “Trolls make no difference to me. Everyone has their point of view and people will judge you no matter what you say or do. There’s no point in mulling over what seems to be speculation or fad and take it seriously. In fact, I believe that some are hired to just get something to trend or run down a rival.” This may not go down well with the trolls, whose mere agenda in life means to get attention, even if it means negatively.
 
 
 
 Believe it or not, trolling is caused by a sense of insecurity. Says clinical psychologist Varkha Chulani, “It’s simply the case of an average Joe wanting to be recognised by a celebrity. This is someone who otherwise would not even be recognised and is suffering from a deep sense of inadequacy,” she explains. 
  People need only small reasons to attack someone else, adds Dr Batra. “Often, it’s a spark that starts this. And trollers get a vicarious pleasure out of what they do. There is a certain accomplishment in bringing down a person in a position of fame. I have come across cases where a young girl was cyber-bullied online and she didn’t want to even leave the house. Trolling can make one feel depressed, but only if you let it affect you.” 
 
 
 Psychologists share recent case studies of people affected by such social media onslaught. “Body shaming, which is a harsh kind of trolling, has become most common now, especially among youngsters,” says Chulani, “I had a case of a 12-year old, who faced venomous comments for her pictures on social media. She said it made her feel ‘pathetic’ and she actually quit social network as she couldn’t handle such harshness. Another well-known writer was ripped apart and abused when he came in support of someone being targeted by trolls. He felt very shaken by the incident and told me, ‘It’s unbelievable how vicious people can be out there’.” 
 
 
 Dr Shetty says it’s rampant in the corporate world, too. “I’d attended to a corporate executive, who shared his views regarding intolerance on social media. He was lambasted for a few days for it, even by people from his own office. He went on to apologise, but owing to their behaviour, he started feeling isolated and soon wanted to quit his job. I suggested he stay away from social media for a while and get in touch with the HR, but it had already taken a toll on him. He could not handle the hostility and ultimately left the workplace.”
 
 
 
  
  
 Psychiatrist Dr Shefali Batra shares tips on what to do if you’re under troll fire...
 
 
 
 
 Last July, the Union Ministry of Women And Child Development (WCD) launched an online hashtag to take up and track complaints of online sexual harassment. The tag, #IAmTrolledHelp, saw complainants flag 
 messages by abusive trolls and harassers on social media.
 
 
 
 
 
