JALANDHAR: Punjab Congress chief spokesperson   has claimed in a complaint to Punjab chief electoral officer   that liquor baron and SAD leader Shiv Lal   had been using seven mobile phone numbers from inside the   jail, where he is lodged in connection with a murder case.

 Jakhar has provided the phone numbers in the complaint and alleged that they were functional till the time Fazlika deputy commissioner (DC) had headed a raid on the prison in which 24 outsiders, including SAD leaders from Abohar, were found meeting Doda inside the jail illegally. He said the phone numbers had been switched off after 6.15pm, January 4.
 
 He said tower location and call records of the phone numbers should be made public to zero in on the people Doda was in touch with. Addressing a press conference here on Saturday, Jakhar said even a DGP-level officer of Punjab Police was in regular touch with Doda through the phone numbers and a fair investigation would bring out the real picture.
 
 He said an officer on special duty of deputy CM Sukhbir Singh Badal was also in touch with Doda. In the complaint, Jakhar claimed that though the raiding team showed a seizure of 25 mobile phones from others who were meeting Doda, nothing was shown to have been seized from Doda, who is facing trial for the December 11, 2015, murder of Dalit youth Bhim Tank.
 
 Jakhar said Doda was using six of the phone numbers and his cook, who was engaged in his service from outside, was using the seventh one. Reportedly, the raid on the jail was conducted after Jakhar tipped off the Election Commission. Doda has by now been shifted to Amritsar jail.
 
 Seeks call details of DC, cops: Jakhar
 
 Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar demanded that the call details of police and administration officials who raided Fazilka jail on January 4 should also be made public. “It will bring out the truth about who was calling them up during and after the raid. Politicians pressured the officers to register an FIR with the simple charge of trespassing against those found with liquor baron Shiv Lal Doda, and not seize mobile phones from Doda,” he said.
 
 ‘Doda’s nephew an absconder’
 
 Jakhar also alleged that Doda’s nephew Amit Doda was an absconder of the Rajasthan Police in a liquor smuggling case. He added that even though Amit was lodged in Fazlika jail, Rajasthan Police had not been allowed to reach gim. He alleged that the liquor was meant for supply in PM Narendra Modi’s home state Gujarat, where prohibition is in place.
 
 
