MUMBAI: New Zealand U-17 football team skipper   on Monday said his side wants to play opponents which would test their skills in the FIFA tournament.

 "For us, getting an opportunity to play against Brazil and England, leading into the World Cup here (at  ) is going to be an awesome experience.
 
 "It will let us tweak the areas that we spot in the games. The harsh reality for us is that this is the (level of) opposition we will play when it counts. We want to play teams who are really going to test us, this is perfect. It will show the character of each individual and as a team," Mata told reporters here.
 
 The New Zealand U-17 side will play against Brazil in a practise game on September 28 scheduled at 5 pm. The Kiwi team then plays England on October 1 at the same venue.
 
 New Zealand, after landing in India, visited the D Y Patil stadium in neighbouring Navi Mumbai.
 
 The skipper said his side will like to continue scoring goals in the U-17 World Cup, which begins on October 6.
 
 "Goal-scoring side of our team is a positive for us. We are planning to continue that, but don't expect the same outcome in the World Cup. When we do get our chances, we will finish (convert) them," he said.
 
 Saying the players fully trust their coach  , the skipper said that the team has the best coaching staff.
 
 "Danny Hay, ex All-Whites (New Zealand) captain, is head coach. Two former captains, Chris Zorocick and   are assistant coach and goalkeeping coach. The preparations getting into the World Cup qualifier is getting better and better. We are picking up little things each time, so that we can get even better. We can trust him (Danny) 100 per cent and that is exactly what we have done," he singed off.
 
 New Zealand, figuring in the U-17 tournament finals for the eighth time, have been grouped in Pool B with Mali, Paraguay and Turkey.
 
 The Kiwis are set to play on the first day of the tournament itself at the D Y Patil Stadium against Turkey, who had made the grade in 2005 and 2009. 
 
