JAIPUR: The Congress has issued a seven-day ultimatum to the state government to withdraw its order about discontinuing   to Jan-Dhan account holders who deposited Rs 50,000 or more after  .

 Congressmen, including former ministers and legislators, staged a protest at the state’s social justice and empowerment department headquarters here on Monday and submitted a memorandum to additional director Sanchita Vishnoi.
 
 “Poor people had to deposit their lifetime’s savings, which they were keeping at home earlier, in these accounts because the Centre banned high denomination currencies on November 8. Now, how can the government treat this as black money or an annual income of an individual and deprive the genuinely underprivileged of the social security pensions?” asked Pratap Singh Khachariyawas, ex-MLA and president of Jaipur City Congress Committee, who led the protest on Monday.
 
 Khachariyawas added, “Jan-Dhan account holders are senior citizens, widows, separated women and specially-able persons. To summarily conclude that the money deposited in their accounts after demonetisation cannot be the entire family’s savings or someone’s lifetime savings is not only irrational but also illegal.”
 
 Congress leaders were not the only ones to question the move, as the state BJP government has faced opposition from its own leaders. BJP leader and former minister Pratap Singh Singhvi too issued a statement asking the state government to reconsider its order of December 26. “Note ban was an effective action by PM Narendra Modi against black money and corruption but it was not intended to hit the poor. We cannot rule out possibility of Jan-Dhan accounts being misused by corrupts, but to punish every account holder because of some suspected people is not fair,” Singhvi said.
 
 Khachariyawas said if the Rs 50,000 limit imposed by the Centre for these accounts was any hurdle, the state government should start paying pensions through money-orders. “Previous Congress government started pensions for 60 lakh people in the state. Present BJP government, however, stopped these first by declaring the living as dead. And now the Rs 50,000 limit is being cited as an excuse to hit the poor,” the Congress leader said. He added, “If the government does not reconsider its decision in seven days, we will gather all Jan-Dhan account holders and gehrao the chief minister’s residence.”
 
 
