CHENNAI: The principle opposition party in the state, the DMK has preferred to wait for the Madras high court to order a fresh floor test to put the ruling AIADMK on the mat, rather than it be seen pulling down the government by any other means. It has also called for a meeting of the party legislators on Tuesday to take stock of the political scenario in the state and discuss further action.

 The party has already moved the HC last week with an application seeking a fresh floor test, in the wake of the revolt by 21 MLAs of the AIADMK, representing the warring T T V Dhinakaran faction. The matter is coming up for hearing again this Wednesday, September 20 and the party is confident that the court will order a fresh floor test.
 
 The plans were firmed up after DMK’s working president M K Stalin consulted legal experts of the party, R Shanmugasundaram, N R Elango and party’s Rajya Sabha MP, R S Bharathi, on Monday, soon after Tamil Nadu assembly speaker P Dhanapal disqualified 18 ruling party MLAs, belonging to the   camp. 
 
 “The Speaker’s action is on expected lines and entirely unsurprising. Anticipating this sort of underhand move and apprehending an attempt to change the composition of the assembly by the ruling party before opting for a floor test, we had moved the high court. What the speaker has done is the oldest trick in the book and nothing innovative at all. It has actually strengthened our claim that this government has lost its majority and hence fearing to face a floor test,” DMK spokesman Manuraj Shunmugasundaram told TOI.
 
 “While the revolt was initially termed as an internal party matter, the move to disqualify them exposes that too. We are fully confident that the speaker’s action is totally malafide and the court will take this into consideration, while passing an order on Wednesday,” he added. The DMK and its allies including the Congress and IUML have 98 MLAs in the assembly, while that of the ruling party has been reduced to 115, excluding the speaker, now.
 
 “The DMK will have to pursue the legal option to force a floor test and then go to the people, when the right time comes (once assembly is dissolved). This looks like the best option for them, even while ensuring that they do not miss the bus this time,” said M Kasinathan, political analyst.
 
