HYDERABAD: Gachibowli, Madhapur and Hi-Tec City that fall under the information technology (IT) corridor will get improved   by the year-end. 

 The Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and   (HMWSSB) is getting ready to invite tenders for laying a 'ring main line' from Shamirpet to the   to supply  . Till a few months ago the IT corridor used to get supplies from Singur. The supply of water from the Godavari will solve the water shortage in the IT hub. 
 
 The water board had sought 400 crore to lay 1,800 mm diameter ring main line. The state government has allotted Rs 1,420 crore to the water board in the state budget 2017-18. The board will utilise a part of the budgetary allocation for supply of Godavari water to the IT corridor. 
 
 The main pipeline will be laid between Shamirpet reservoir and Madhapur. It will also be connected to Prashasan Nagar reservoirs. The total length of the pipeline is 40 km. The board is currently supplying Godavari water from Shamirpet reservoir to the city and also to Gachibowli, Madhapur , Hi-Tec City and surrounding areas. "We need not acquire land as the pipeline will pass along the outer ring road (ORR). The work will be completed soon," an official in the water board told TOI. 
 
 At present to compensate for the loss of supplies from Singur/Manjira to Gachibowli, Madhapur, Hitech City and surrounding areas a few months ago, the board is diverting Godavari water from Prashasan Nagar and Madhapur reservoirs through 'reverse pumping'. The board is supplying water from Godavari and Krishna to Madhapur. 
 
 Gachibowli and surrounding residential areas are getting water from the Krishna, he said.
 
 "Works pertaining to laying of 1.000 mm diametre water supply lines between Tolichowki and Madhapur are in full swing. The board is spending 25 crore. At present, we are providing alternate day water supply to the IT corridor. A few areas get water once in three days," said HMWSSB general manager (operation and maintenance), Division-XV, P Venkateswara Rao. 
 
 Once the new pipeline is laid, the entire IT corridor will get improved water supply every other day.
 
