Nagpur: A team from Thane police made another trip to Nagpur on Wednesday for investigations into the army paper leak case. So far, three army personnel of below officer’s rank have been arrested for their alleged role in the case. The paper leak happened on February 26 for the exam to be held the same day. With even army conducting a parallel inquiry, the question as to how the trio got hold of the papers remains unanswered. This has left the investigators boggled as well. The three were not involved in the paper handling process which is entirely an all-officer job. The papers, that are set in Delhi, are e-mailed to Pune’s zonal recruitment office. From Pune, it comes to Nagpur which is among the several army recruitment offices (AROs) within the zone.  The officers handling the papers at examinations centres are not from the ARO. A presiding officer, who is of Colonel’s rank, is appointed from a different unit. The presiding officer gets the password for opening the files containing question papers a day before the tests.  Once opened, the printing begins in a closed room in which only officers are present. After a few copies of computer printout the rest of photocopied in a machine kept in the room itself. “This job is also done by the presiding officer’s team,” said sources familiar to the procedure. A closely guarded place, the room is sealed till the exams begin next day. Here at Nagpur, it was found that the seal was intact. The envelopes in which the papers are kept are also sealed. Even these seals where found not tampered. This raises a question how the clerks who have no access to the copying process get the papers. It’s learnt that papers for all the three posts, running into over 20 sheets, were leaked. The entire room is under CCTV coverage leaving no scope for any trespasser to sneak in. Meanwhile, the police has sealed the copying room at Nagpur for further investigations.  Sources say no centre can be singled out as source of the leak. The same process is carried out in different centres across the country at the same date and time. There is a likelihood that the papers may have been leaked from anywhere in the country where recruitments rallies are being held. Meanwhile, the police officials handling the case have said that the involvement of the three clerks have been confirmed and further investigation will continue. Santosh Shinde, who runs a pre-recruitment coaching class, was among the first to be arrested. One of them, Ravindra Kumar, an army clerk, had approached him with the papers.