PATNA: Police raided a birthday party at the Amrapali banquet hall at   in Patna around midnight on Monday and arrested 19 revellers, including four bar dancers, on the charge of consuming liquor despite prohibition in the state.

 A liquor bottle, several glasses containing diluted IMFL and snacks along with a bike and two SUVs were seized from the NRI Plaza building in which the banquet hall is located.
 
 City SP (central) Chandan Kumar Kushwaha said birthday boy Sunny Kumar of Digha had called his friends and also arranged women dancers through a local event management firm for the party. “Three guests tested positive for alcohol. Raids are on to nab Sunny and his other friends,” he added.
 
 According to police, it was around 1am that an SUV was stopped for checking on Ashiana-Digha road. “We spotted some undergarments of women on the rear seat, which aroused our suspicion. The driver asked for the location of NRI Plaza, and Rajeev Nagar police station SHO Mrityunjay Kumar boarded the vehicle, telling him that he also had to go at the same location,” said a police officer.
 
 The police patrol vehicle followed the SUV and also informed Pataliputra police station SHO Sanjeev Shekhar Jha. Soon a police team from Pataliputra police station also reached the NRI Plaza and the cops raided the premises, only to find youths consuming liquor and dancing with the four girls at the banquet hall.
 
 Police said the arrested youths were identified as Rohit Kumar (19), Himanshu Kumar (22), Preetam Kumar (24) and Mrityunjay Kumar (22) of Digha, Chandan Kumar (20), Chandan Kumar (25), Jitendra Kumar (19), Golu Kumar (19) and a 17-year-old of Alamganj, Monu Kumar (21) and Avinash Kumar (35) of Patrakar Nagar, Munna Singh (29) of Kankarbagh, Sanjeev Kumar (22) of Pandarak and Mukesh Kumar (39) of Noorsarai in Nalanda.
 
 The dancers were identified as Jagriti (22) of Siwan, Maahi Raj (19) of Dehradun, Jyoti (24) of Panipat and Pooja Dey (22) of Dibrugarh. Pooja was living at Kumhrar while the remaining three were living at Kali Mandir Road in Patrakar Nagar in Patna, police said.
 
 Police later also arrested Neetu Kumari (38) of Kesri Nagar, who owns the NRI Plaza building. “She told us her husband, Arun Kumar Singh, is a petrochemical engineer working in Russia,” another police officer said.
 
 
