One of the most auspicious Hindu festivals,   is celebrated with great devotion and enthusiasm. ‘Navratri’, meaning ‘nine auspicious nights’, is a pious festival which is celebrated to honour Goddess Durga, Saraswati and Lakshmi. People fast, perform spiritual rituals and pray with great devotion during these nine auspicious days.

 As these are pious days, it is important to know the exact rituals and customs that should be followed by those who follow Navratri. 
 
  
 
 
 Idol or picture of Goddess Durga
 
 A red dupatta to offer the deity. People also offer saree to the Goddess.
 
 Hindu sacred book: Durga Saptshati
 
 Sandalwood
 
 Coconut
 
 Roli, which is also referred to as red sacred red powder used for tilak
 
 Ganga water in kalash (picture). If you don’t have Ganga water, take plain water
 
 Fresh mango leaves. Use them after washing
 
 Supari (Areca nuts)
 
 Paan (Betel leaves)
 
 Cloves
 
 Cardamom
 
 Incense sticks
 
 Fresh flowers to offer the deity
 
 Fresh fruits
 
 Some sweets like ‘laddoo’
 
 Kumkum (vermilion)
 
 Gulal
 
 Fresh grass
 
 Moli, which is red sacred thread
 
 Raw rice
 
 Now to perform the ritual, you need to get up early in the morning. Get fresh and after taking bath, wear clean clothes. Early morning is the right time to perform Navratri Pooja. Sprinkle ‘Gangajal’ in your house to make it pious. Light the ‘Akhand Jyoti’. All people who light ‘Akhand jyoti’ should keep it in mind that after this, they shouldn’t leave their home vacant. One person should be present in the house. ‘Akhand Jyoti ‘should be kept at the left side of the deity and on the right side, keep some incense sticks. Perform all the rituals with great devotion. Before you start your prayers, blow the ‘shankh’ or you can also ring the bell.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 After ‘Akhand Jyoti’, now you should perform ‘Kalash Sathapna’ ritual. Keep the Kalash filled with water or Ganga water near the deity and put some mango leaves in the kalash. After putting leaves, place coconut in it. Coconut should be wrapped in the red cloth and tie moli (red sacred thread) around it.
 
  After placing kalash and coconut, offer deity sandalwood powder followed by fresh grass. Now, offer saree or red dupatta to the Goddess and place some fresh flowers. Offer ‘paan’ leaf with 1 clove on it and those who are married should offer two ‘paan’ leaves. Light incense sticks and start your prayer. Chant this mantra: 
  
 
 If you are performing ‘havan’, chant this mantra and give ‘aahuti’ 11 times.
 
 Lastly, offer ‘prasad’ that you have kept in the form of sweets. After distributing prasad, sing "Kshama Prarthana". Refer to the 13
  chapter of the sacred book ‘Durga Saptshati’. The mantra goes like this…
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Now conclude the Puja and pray for happiness, prosperity, peace and blessings for your friends and family.
 
 
