AHMEDABAD: No one would have imagined that the shy city birds would choose to stay beside a smouldering mountain of filth — where toxic fumes and nauseating smell are repulsing for many who stay besides   — Gujarat’s largest landfill site for domestic waste. A private tutor who stays besides the dumping Yard today created a heaven for sparrows at Pirana wherein he rears over 150 little avians.

 Imran Shekhani, the private tutor and a casual announcer for a radio station, began his conservation effort five years ago when sparrows had nearly disappeared from the city’s scape. For this, Imran got an artificial nest from   - who was mentioned by Prime Minister   on his radio program -- 'Mann Ki Baat' on Sunday for former’s book ‘Save the Sparrows’.
 
 But unlike his mentor, Shekhani’s work has not got appreciation as he still struggles to collect nests for the sparrows. “Earlier, I used to get regular support from the people, but it reduced for last few years. As I am a tutor, I also ask my students to set a nest at their home for sparrow conservation,” Shekhani said.
 
 Shekhani does not charge anything for the kids living near Pirana dumping yard but he only insists that they should put nests at their home for the sparrows. “Har Ghar Shiksha (Education in each house) and Ghar Ghar Chidiya (sparrow in every house) is my desire and thus giving free tuition to needy kids is fulfilling both the wishes,” he said.
 
 “Every year, over 150 sparrows come and hatch their eggs. My place is like their maternity home. Not only me, but my 9-year-old son Amaan also cares for them and feed those sparrows during morning and evening,” Shekhani said.
 
 When asked how he could create such a heavenly place for the sparrows, Shekhani said, “This is nothing but a miracle by nature as these sparrows are mingling at a place where in human being cannot even stand for a while.”
 
 He added, “We stay at a place where toxic fumes are coming out from a huge mountains of filth and especially on Sunday, smoke covers the entire place. But I feel Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who promotes cleanliness, will do something for Pirana dumping yard.”
 
