Mysuru: Amid heavy rain over the past week, the city has geared up for the final, resplendent cavalcade of cultural troupes, caparisoned elephants and horses and tableaux that showcase the state and tradition of   on September 30. 

 This is the 407th edition of the Mysuru Dasara and there are many firsts this season. Tripod turnstile gates will be installed near Jayamarthanda gate for entry, infused paper technology used to print tamper-proof ticket so that forgery can be checked on the spot, quadcopters used to get real-time updates on the procession and a contingency plan to protect howdah elephant in case of heavy rain. 
 
 Elephants are the cynosure of all eyes in the procession as the lead elephant Arjuna will carry the golden howdah on its back with the idol of goddess Chamundeshwari in it and amble for nearly 4.5kms from Mysuru Palace to Bannimantapa Grounds, which is the USP of Mysuru Dasara.
 
 The procession followed by the   later at night will bring down the curtains down on the ten-day grand celebration. At the end, firecrackers will be lit at Bannimantapa grounds. 
 
 Chief minister Siddaramaiah will inaugurate the procession at 2.30pm at Mysuru Palace, the starting point of procession, after performing puja to Nandi dwaja, a customary practice, at the north gate of Mysuru Palace around 2.15pm. The final leg of the procession will be Arjuna carrying the deity in the howdah to which CM will offer puja by showering flower petals along with other dignitaries between 4.30pm and 4.45pm, as 21 cannon shots will be fired and the National Anthem is played.
 
 In all, 60 cultural groups and 30 tableaux will participate in the procession. 
 
 The district administration and city police have made unprecedented arrangements for the finale. Seating arrangements have been made in the Palace and all along the procession route for guests and invitees. Cops are using quadcopters to keep tabs on the procession. The procession is planned on the lines of the Republic Day parade in New Delhi by maintaining precision and discipline as suggested by the chief minister. Police also want to reduce the crowd around elephants.
 
 Deputy commissioner D Randeep, who is the Dasara Special Officer, said they are making contingency plans to safeguard the howdah elephant in case of heavy rain. “As Mysuru has been receiving rain for the past few days and rain is predicted on Saturday, we’ll take a decision in consultation with forest officials,” he said.
 
 DCP N Vishnuvardhana requested devotees and public to follow instructions on the tickets and enter from designated points to avoid any inconvenience. Anti-sabotage checks and dog squad personnel will be at work on the day and randomly check baggage, venues and procession routes. 
 
 Who will ride Arjuna? 
 
 The forest department is yet to decide on who will ride the howdah elephant Arjuna in the procession on Saturday. Last year, Sanappa, the kavadi (32), who had handled Arjuna for nearly a decade along with his father Doddamaasti, was given the responsibility. This year, the department wants to give it to Arjuna’s mahout Veenu (27), a novice. Veenu is the son of Doddappaji, mahout of former howdah elephant Drona, and was recently promoted as mahout. He was given charge after Doddamaasti, who is credited with disciplining Arjuna, retired in 2014.
 
 Tamper-proof passes/tickets 
 
 For the first time, tamper-proof entry tickets have been printed to check forging of tickets. Infused-paper technology is used so that the authenticity of tickets can be verified on the spot. A red-coloured paper can be seen if the ticket is torn and it indicates it is original, said DC D Randeep. 
 
 
