Mumbai: The country’s largest institutional investor is wary of equities with its equity investments barely increasing during the current fiscal despite a 40% jump in new business premium. The corporation is however bullish on public sector divestment and looking at upcoming issues including that of the state-owned insurance companies. “We are subdued in equity investments because the market has gone up very high. In any case LIC has always been contrarian and we continue to follow our 1958 policy of investment which says primary duty of LIC is to protect the hard earned income of policy holders and investment return is secondary,” said LIC chairman VK Sharma in his first interaction with the media after taking charge last year. Sharma said that LIC has used the rise in stock prices to book profits. In the first nine months of the current fiscal, the corporation has booked profits of Rs 16,000 crore as against Rs 9,500 crore in the corresponding period last year. The corporation has sold shares worth Rs 39,000 crore as against its purchases worth around Rs 38,000 crore. Sharma said that there was no pressure on LIC to invest in PSU companies and the scenario was quite contrary to that belief. “In fact we had applied for 60% of the issue of Bharat Electronic Limited (a government divestment) but we did not get a single share,” said Sharma. He also indicated that the corporation was keen to invest in shares of the General Insurance Corporation. When asked about the likelihood of LIC getting itself listed, Sharma said that being a statutory corporation, reply on this question could be given only to parliament. In the first nine months of the fiscal the corporation saw its total premium income grow 12.43% to Rs 1.45 lakh crore and total assets rose 12.8% to Rs 24.41 lakh crore from Rs 21.64 lakh crore a year ago. Gross income (including investments) increased 15.8% to Rs 3.37 lakh crore from Rs 2.91 lakh crore Sharma said that of the total investments of around Rs 1.98 lakh crore during the current fiscal, the corporation has pumped in Rs 1.83 lakh crore into government and government backed bonds and the rest had gone largely into fixed income investments. When asked about the corporation roles in the boardroom battles taking place in the Tata Group and Infosys, Sharma said that LIC would primarily depend on the Insurance Regulatory Development Authority of India’s proposed code on principles of stewardship. The principles are intended to strengthen the role of insurers as stewards on behalf of the policyholders. “We are sensitive to protecting every single rupee of the policyholder. But at the same time we have no business to be in their business,” said Sharma. “Our focus is on clean corporate governance, whether it is for us or whether it is for other companies,” said Sharma.