JAIPUR:   near   sits within the new airport. Land of seven villages had to be acquired for the airport. While the villages falling closer to National Highway 448 got a higher compensation and moved, the people of this village, which falls further away from the highway, have been on protest seeking fair compensation. The Rajputs here claim their village might never have been in the way of the airport at all, if the original plan had been followed.

 Deputy secretary Indra Singh Rao of the state department of civil aviation agrees that the alignment of the runway was altered by three degrees. “Land for the power station had already been acquired by the state government although construction had not begun when the airport project began. Since much money had already been invested, we needed to save it.”
 
 Villagers point also to a large building near the power station. “That building project is backed by people in high political office. The idea was to save it too,” says Pratap Singh, a former army man who now leads protesting villagers. TOI was not able to verify this claim independently.
 
 Ajmer is the hub not only of pilgrims travelling to the dargah or the Brahma temple in Pushkar – one of the rare temples in the country dedicated to this deity – it is also the centre of the marble business. “Besides, many Hollywood celebrities visit the durgah ahead of major projects to seek blessings, the women often in purdah to keep crowds from mobbing them,” said deputy secretary Rao, adding that if the government sought permission from local villagers for such large projects, “Indira Gandhi International Airport in New Delhi and the Jaipur airport too might not have been constructed. Compensation has been offered to villagers in keeping with norms.” 
 
 Constable Roop Singh of Rajasthan Police is now on suspension after joining fellow villagers on protest. His house too is set for demolition. The villagers feel government – whether led by Congress or BJP – has done them in. The earliest notification on land acquisition was printed in a Sindhi paper, ‘Adhunik Rajasthan’ on August 4, 2011. No one in the area had even heard of this newspaper. Most villagers only came to know about the airport when compensation money had moved to the treasury and they were instructed to collect it in December 2012. 
 
 “Many villagers, not knowing that accepting the amount is tantamount to giving up claim to the land, accepted,” says Pratap Singh. Villagers have been offered land in compensation within the Kishangarh Nagar Nigam area. Compensation is arrived at by equating the value of the land taken with what is given; this is paid either in cash or kind. Since plots allotted are in an urban centre where the value of land is higher, the area smaller. 
 
 “How will we continue to keep our cattle? We now have space enough for them in our homes,” says Puja Vaishnav, who is getting ready to move. “The site we were given was earlier part of a stone mine. Levelling the ground ahead of construction proved expensive,” she says.
 
 While computing compensation, authorities also did not measure the huge courtyards that many of these rural homes possess, measuring only built area. Villagers also complained that those who held no pattas were considered encroachers and not given any compensation at all. Roop Singh said, “Just look at these walls. They are over a foot wide. This village is 700 years old, and we are considered encroachers!”
 
 “We earn our livelihood selling milk and growing crops. Now, authorities are threatening to cut off electricity to our homes. There is space in the airport boundary wall that allows us easy access to our fields – they are threatening to close that. The government school was closed five years ago. Our children go to private schools. No anganwadi worker comes our way -- our village is not supposed to exist,” Vaishnav says. 
 
 Ajmer district collector Gaurav Goyal says 95% of work on the airport is complete. During a visit to Ajmer on Wednesday, state education minister Vasudev Devnani said the airport would begin functioning by August 15. 
 
 Rao of the state civil aviation department said, “We already have three private services interested in operating flights to this airport. It could well become the second-busiest airport in the state after Jaipur, busier than Jodhpur.” 
 
