AHMEDABAD: The first crush on a teacher is a feeling almost every boy has felt. Chirag also fell for his teacher,  , when he was in class XII. However, his feelings did not shrink to the mere physical but gradually expanded to love. Usually, teachers help students out of problems, but here Chirag became a saviour for Hetal.

 Their seven-year age difference is no chasm, as Chirag and Hetal are now parents to a five-year-old boy, Hetveer. Hetal is grateful for Chirag’s support through her tough times — like a disturbed previous marriage, pregnancy through IVF and caring for their critically-ill newborn.
 
 Hetal, 36, first married in 1999 and was going through a disturbed marital life when Chirag started taking English tuitions from her at Mehsana. Hetal’s first husband fell into alcoholism and criminal activities, to the extent that he was once booked in an Arms Act and abduction case.
 
 “My faith in him was shattered when I learned that my house had been sold and that too from Chirag. My first husband had sold the house to Chirag’s family and Chirag was feeling guilty about it so he told me. After that, I divorced him in 2005,” Hetal, a lecturer at a Mehsana college, said.
 
 “A few months after my divorce, Chirag first proposed to me and I scolded him and rejected his proposal, telling him not to pity me. But he remained quite firm,” says Hetal.
 
 Chriag, 29, a pharmacist, says, “On Christmas 2005, I gave her a card and proposed again, but she told me to consult my friends and parents. Even though, my friends told me not to marry an older woman, I was firm on my decision because I knew I loved her.”
 
 “I fell for her in my teenage, when she was my teacher. I tried to woo her through various methods, like if she needed anything, I would make sure that I brought it first,” Chirag giggles.
 
 When Chirag’s family learned about their relationship, they made him leave his education. On March 17, 2009, Hetal’s brother died of liver cirrhosis and then Chirag, who was struggling to convince his friends and family, took the final decision. “As I was all alone, Chirag convinced me to get married on March 18, the day after my brother’s demise and the day Chirag turned 21. That showed his maturity and I agreed.”
 
 The couple went into exile for two months and returned to convince their parents. Ultimately, Chirag took the lead and all were won over, which led to a happy ending.
 
 
