BENGALURU: Bharat Ratna Prof   on Wednesday said Indian scientists are “lazy” compared to those in countries like Japan, South Korea and China. “We are generally a lazy lot. If a person is angered by his superiors or something like that happened in Japan, he tends to work for an additional two hours. But in India, we stop working,” he said at a ceremony organized by the Karnataka State Council for Science and Technology, and the department of Information Technology, Biotechnology and Science & Technology to honour scientists and engineers.

 Rao, while praising the state government for having given due importance to science and technology, said: “While Karnataka has some of the best work happening in the field of science, there’s a lot more that is desired. If India needs to become number one, the focus must be on science. Look at how China is pumping in money. They’ve realized that just having the largest army is not enough.”
 
 Chief minister Siddaramaiah urged scientists and engineers to draw inspiration from people like M Visvesvaraya and Prof Satish Dhawan. “Look at their achievements when there were barely any facilities. I keep telling people that they must work hard so as to at least get close to the kind of achievements people like Visvesvaraya have managed,” he said.
 
 Twelve people received awards in the field of science and technology, life sciences, engineering, physical sciences & mathematics, chemical sciences and  . The awards have been constituted in the names of M Visvesvaraya, Dr Raja Ramanna, C V Raman, Prof Satish Dhawan and  .
 
  Sir M Visvesvaraya Award (2015 & 2016)
 
 Prof M K Surappa, Indian Institute of Science (Science & Technology)
 
 Dr P Satishchandra, Nimhans (Science & Technology)
 
  Dr Raja Ramanna Award (2015 & 2016)
 
 Prof Hemalatha Balaram,   Centre for Advanced Scientific Research (Science Education)
 
 Siddapura Ramachandrappa Niranjana, vice-chancellor, Gulbarga University (Science Education)
 
 Sir CV Raman Award (2015 & 2016)
 
 Gurumurthy Hedge, BMS College of Engineering (Physical Sciences & Mathematics)
 
 K Mantelingu, the University of Mysore (Chemical Sciences)
 
 Dr Suresh Bada Math, Nimhans (Medical Sciences)
 
 Ganesh Nagaraju, IISc (Life Sciences)
 
 Raghavendra Bhatta, National Institute of Animal Nutrition and Physiology (Agricultural Sciences and Animal husbandry)
 
 Prof Satish Dhawan Award (2015)
 
 Sunilkumar S Manvi, Reva Institute of Technology (Engineering Sciences)
 
 Dr Kalpana Chawla Award (2015)
 
 T Sharmila, Bangalore University (Science & Technology)
 
 Shailaja S Patil, BLDE University (Science & Technology)
 
 
