Chandigarh: The commission of inquiry headed by Justice Mehtab Singh Gill (retired) has ordered re-investigation by an independent agency into a corruption case registered against retired Punjab IAS officer Mandeep Singh, who was booked by the vigilance bureau (VB) in 2015 during the last leg of the SAD-BJP regime.

 Once considered as the blue-eyed boy of former deputy chief minister Sukhbir Singh Badal, Mandeep was booked under the Prevention of Corruption Act on August 26, 2015, after three months of his retirement. A 1979-batch Punjab Civil Services (PSC) officer, Mandeep was later nominated to the IAS in 1991. He mostly remained posted in the transport department during the previous government.
 
 The commission said, “Reinvestigation/further investigation by an independent agency (SIT) other than the vigilance bureau recommended to be done after taking permission of the court in which the challan has been presented.” The retired IAS officer had approached the commission against the VB submitting that he was wrongly implicated in the case.
 
 Mandeep was arrested by the VB in February this year for accumulating assets more than his known sources of income and was last month granted bail by the high court. As per the chargesheet filed by the VB on March 8 at a Mohali court, Mandeep had accumulated movable and immovable assets worth Rs 9.7 crore between 1998 and 2014 whereas income from his known sources was Rs 4.13 crore during the said period.
 
 Punjab vigilance bureau’s investigation had revealed that Mandeep had bought various properties in the names of his family members. He had bought three houses measuring one kanal each in sectors 3, 8 and 33 of Chandigarh and also owns two showrooms in Sector 22 and one in Sector 10 of Chandigarh. Mandeep had also bought a house in Shimla, has 80% share in a hotel at Zirakpur and purchased 113 acres of agriculture land near Chamkaur Sahib in Rupnagar district.
 
 The commission of enquiry headed by Justice Gill (retd.) was constituted by Captain Amarinder Singh-led Congress government on April 5 to look into false cases registered in the last 10 years during the SAD-BJP regime across the state. After probing 178 cases, the commission had submitted its interim report to the chief minister on August 23 recommending action against police officers, some sarpanchs and complainants for registering false cases.
 
 
