Panaji: Former St Cruz MLA Atanasio ‘Babush’   on Thursday said that if he contests the Panaji byelection then it will be on the Congress ticket and not that of any other political party. Monserrate said he will take a final decision once the state election commission announces the date for the bypoll.

 The former St Cruz MLA on Thursday held a meeting with AICC general secretary and Goa Congress desk incharge A Chellakumar and discussed the strategy for the Panaji byelection. He said that Monserrate had conveyed his willingness to contest the Panaji byelection on the Congress ticket.
 
 “We had an open talk. There was a discussion and there were various issues that were discussed. There is a lot of time. The election commission has not announced the dates of the elections. A decision will be made then,” Chellakumar said. Monserrate, who is chief of the United Goans Party (UGP) that he floated, had a tie up with the Congress for the February 11 polls.
 
 Nearly all the Congress MLAs visited Monserrate at his home in Taleigao to convince him to contest the bypoll against  . 
 
 “We met Chellakumar at ICG and then we went to meet Babush. We requested him to contest on the Congress ticket and he said he would do it if we supported him,” Curtorim MLA Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenco said.
 
 Chellakumar denied that any discussion about a probable change in the party state leadership came up during the meeting with Monserrate.
 
 Speaking to TOI Monserrate said that nobody can take the people of Panaji for granted. He also said that he has realized what mistake he made in Panaji during the recently concluded assembly elections and that this would make it easy for him to rectify the same, if he contests from Panaji.
 
 Saying that last time around his campaigning had been very low profile, Monserrate added, “I have visited houses in the constituency only once and, with my team in Taleigao, I was unable to do follow ups.”
 
 About why his team was positioned in Taleigao, he said, “It is always said that one should save one’s own front first before capturing another.”
 
 Monserrate contested the March 4 assembly polls from Panaji on the UGP ticket. He lost to   MLA Sidharth Kuncalienker by over 1,000 votes. Kuncalienker on Wednesday resigned as MLA to make way for chief minister Manohar Parrikar to contest from Panaji.
 
 
