Finance minister  's budget speech is itself an ad mission of what demonetisation has done to the country's informal sector, the middle economy and the daily wage earners.

 While discounting Bengal chief minister  's blistering attack against PM Modi on demonetisation in public, Jaitley has touched upon some of the concerns expressed by the opposition over sectors -MSME, salaried class, district cooperative banks and farmers -hit hard by the notebandi. The total budgetary outlay showing an 8% increase compared to 2016-17 and the 11% increase last year (compared to the year before that) is also an indication that the common man will have to wait for some more months to come out of the effects of demonetisation.
 
 A case in point is the MSME sector. Mamata has been crying foul over the plight of this sector that accounts for 25% of the GDP. This happens to be the mainstay of Bengal's industry . The finance minister has lowered the effective tax on units with Rs 50-crore turnover in this sector. He has also promised credit guarantee to SME loans, raising the cap from Rs 1 crore to Rs 2 crore. However, for this, the MSME transactions have to go digital before they can get access to credit. A study by the Naitional Institute of Public Finance and Policy (NIPFP), New Delhi, indicates that the demand for credit would be low post demonetisation.
 
 Next comes investment in the rural sector. Even as the agriculture ministry has been claiming that the all-India acreage figures didn't show any dip post demonetisation, ground reports from Tarakeswar, Burdwan reveal that potato acreage has suffered because the district cooperative banks didn't get enough money to disburse as loans. The finance minister has provided for a Nabard corpus of Rs 20,000 crore to finance district cooperative banks and societies so that farmers get bet ter access to loans. And in a very limited scale, Jaitley has given a tax relief of Rs 1,000 a month for the sa laried middle class who bore the pains of demonetisation for days.Chances are that the small relief may not be enough to tackle the rise in indirect tax after the Centre rolls out GST.
 
 Third, there's hardly any takeaway for the rural poor in Bengal. In a state where a total 24,250 villages don't have any bank branch, it will be a tough task for the MGNREGS workers, or those under other schemes, to avail of the direct cash transfers. “Look at what women got from this Budget. It's even less than the allocations the Mamata government has made for Kanyashree. Worse, from now, respective states have to co-fund the railway projects,“ said Trinamool Rajya Sabha leader Derek O'Brien. CPM state secretary Surjya Kanta Mishra sees little chance of public spending in the state's infrastructure projects. “Budgetary allocations for capital expenditure during the last financial was 1.86% of the GDP . This time, including railways, it's 1.84%. There has been a contraction in capital expenditure,“ Mishra said.
 
