GAYA: The powerful contractor lobby of the   ( ) enjoying the patronage of several university bigwigs has suffered a big jolt with vice-chancellor Prof   virtually banishing private contractors from the university premises. According to the VC, private contractors will not be engaged by the university for any future project. The construction job would be entrusted to government agencies like building construction and public health and engineering departments.

 All water related projects on the university campus and the constituent colleges would be executed by the PHED, said the VC. The job was earlier entrusted to private contractors. Asked about the fate of the university’s own engineering cell, the VC said it will remain functional, but its area of work has been redefined. The engineering cell would be undertaking repair job involving an expenditure of less than Rs 15 lakh.
 
 The VC hinted that for the UGC funded schemes, the services of   may be requisitioned. The decision to get the projects executed by government agencies has been taken to avoid favouritism and office level corruption. The vigilance department is already probing big ticket corruption in different sections of the university. The ambit of vigilance inquiry includes alleged fraudulent award of PhD degree to foreigners, large scale fund diversion from the examination department of the university and transfer of huge money from the university’s exam fund to individual accounts and Distance Education Directorate funds. The vigilance team has been camping in the university headquarters for the last two days.
 
 Although the university does not have its own rule for compassionate ground appointments, such appointments had been made in a somewhat whimsical manner in the past. The VC said government rules in respect of compassionate ground appointments would be adopted by the university in its totality. He has directed registrar   to seek government guidelines with respect to compassionate ground appointments.
 
 On promotion of non-teaching employees, the VC made it clear that the proposals would be considered only after getting the nod from the pay verification cell constituted by the government. 
 
