CHENNAI: The failure of the north east monsoon, with a deficiency of 62% rainfall, has left the state in distress.   O Panneerselvam on Tuesday declared that all 32 districts in the state were drought hit and promised to increase the number of working days under the rural job guarantee scheme (MGNREGS) from 100 to 150 to help agricultural labourers who lost their livelihood. A government order to this effect will be issued shortly. 

 Following a spot assessment made by high-level teams comprising ministers and senior bureaucrats in all districts, barring Chennai, on Monday, Panneerselvam announced a slew of measures to mitigate the crisis. He said 17   committed suicide in the past two months. Relief assistance of Rs 3 lakh would be extended to each of the bereaved families. “Detailed reports have been sought from collectors on the deaths reported in the media. After receiving the reports, similar assistance will be extended to those families as well,” he said, adding that land tax would be waived totally for farmers. 
 
 Revenue administration, disaster management and mitigation commissioner K Satyagopal said the state would send a memorandum to the Centre within a week seeking relief assistance. “We expect the Centre to depute a team to assess the situation akin to the one sent in the aftermath of cyclone Vardah. On getting its team’s report, the Centre will extend relief assistance under the national disaster response fund,” he told TOI. The memorandum, with inputs from various agencies, including agriculture, water supply and animal husbandry, will get ready shortly.
 
 Panneerselvam said that with the situation turning worse as days pass, assistance will be provided to the affected farmers who have sustained crop loss of 33% and above, as per disaster relief guidelines. In line with this order, Rs 5,565 will be extended to paddy crop per acre, Rs 5,465 for irrigated crops, Rs 3,000 for rainfed crops, Rss 7,287 for perennial and Rs 3,000 for sericulture crops. Insurance companies will extend compensation after embarking on “crop cutting experiment” shortly. 
 
 As part of mitigating acute water crisis, the state government will take up Rs 160 crore worth schemes in urban local bodies and Rs 350 crore in rural local bodies. A sum of Rs 5 crore will be spent towards supply of water to wild animals. That apart, Rs 25 crore worth schemes will be implemented by the public works department to improve the ground water table. Schemes costing Rs 78 crore will be implemented by the animal husbandry department to ensure adequate fodder supply in the wake of the drought.
 
 
