Nagpur: In order to promote performing arts and commemorate the occasion of  , a unique   performance was staged by delhi-based Pandit  . Like it does every year, Spic Macay’s Nagpur chapter organized a dance recital, this time in collaboration with Chitnavis Centre, at its premises on Saturday evening.

 Ragendra Gangani started off by narrating about a temple called Shri Rajrajeshwari, dedicated to the deity which opens only once in a year during Shivratri. “Shiva is a universal and global icon when it comes to dance. In this temple, there are long queues of devotees that day to get a glimpse of Shiva. More importantly, in that temple, Shiva has been referred to as ‘Rangeela’, a departure from his usual avatars as Bhairava, Bholenath. I want to explore this part of him where he is like a white wall, on which all colours are painted,” he said. The dancer matched his footwork to the presentation of a traditional composition in raag Pilu and his graceful steps recreated the appearance and characteristics of Shiva. His worship, as performed by devotees, and the devotion felt by them was palpable in Gangani’s expressions.
 
 The Sangeet Natak Akademi award recipient also briefed the audience before each act and formed a balance of theory and demonstration. The Kathak maestro, trained in the Jaipur Gharana, was accompanied by Pandit Kishore Gangani on tabla, along with Ravi Shankar Sharma on Sitar and Vinod Gangani on vocals. He demonstrated the nuances of rhythmic dancing through his footwork and the spirals, referring to dancer Martha Graham.
 
 In his second presentation, he attempted to portray a different presentation of Natraja, by emphasizing on ‘nritya bhaav.’ He also brought out the ‘laya’ and recited verses for the audience. His acts drew inspiration from the vast literature on epics and mythology, and the sound of his ghungroo reverberated through the hall. In his third act, Gangani said he wanted to portray the unique relationship of Meerabai and Krishna. “Meerabai used to chide Krishna for dancing with the gopis and not meeting her. I want to present this frustration and dilemma through my act,” he said.
 
 
