CHENNAI: Reiterating its pre-conditions for resuming merger talks with the rival AIADMK-Amma faction, the O Panneerselvam group on Monday said its leader should be sworn in as   chief minister and made the leader of an united  . 

 “Unless these conditions are met, the faction is not ready for unification of the party,” said former school education minister K Pandiarajan. “Though it is my personal view that   must head the party and government, most of us feel that the unification of the party can happen only under Panneerselvam’s leadership. We have also laid down two conditions — one is for a probe into the death of former chief minister J Jayalalithaa and the other to keep the Sasikala family out of the party and government. These conditions remain,” Pandiarajan told TOI. 
 
 The Avadi MLA said the faction wanted to prove its popularity and strength. “We have been asking the Edappadi government to hold the local body elections. But the government has been dilly-dallying and it is not ready to hold the elections. We wanted to prove our strength in the RK Nagar byelection, but unfortunately it was cancelled. We are waiting for an opportunity,” said the former minister. 
 
 “If the government continues to postpone the local body elections, then one of our MLAs will resign and force the Election Commission to hold a byelection. We are definitely hopeful of winning such a byelection and prove that the party is with OPS,” said Pandiarajan. 
 
 On the coming together of the Sasikala clan, the OPS group was of the view that it was nothing but desperation. “All talk about TTV Dhinakaran coming to the party headquarters on August 5 as well as the family members coming together show they are desperate to retain their grip on the party,” he said. 
 
 The OPS faction draws huge crowds at each public meeting organised by the faction leaders. “Even at the Coimbatore meeting, there was a sea of cadres, cheering OPS when he spoke. Each and every meeting gives us hope that cadres are with us,” Pandiarajan said. 
 
 Meanwhile, there is growing suspicion among sections in the O Pannerselvam faction that the   would prefer a divided AIADMK house in order to strengthen its own position in Tamil Nadu. A few senior leaders, seeking anonymity, said the actions of the BJP leaders seem to “indicate this”.
 
