MUMBAI: Big-ticket railway projects in the   got Rs 636 crore in the budget this year.

 The   (MUTP) III, which includes capacity expansion schemes for the extended suburbs, bagged the lion’s share at Rs 411 crore, paving the way for   (MRVC) to float bids for various works.
 
 Token allocations of Rs 10,000 for the Bandra-Virar elevated corridor and Rs 10 lakh each for the Panvel-Vasai-Virar route and the CST-Panvel elevated corridor indicated approval for these projects.
 
 MUTP III, which includes the Airoli-Kalwa link, quadrupling of the Virar-Dahanu line and the new Panvel-Karjat corridor, had received a paltry Rs 5 crore in the last budget. Last year, the city had got about Rs 771 crore, with Rs 631 crore given to complete MUTP II projects.
 
 “With this year’s allocation in hand, we are not only in a position to invite bids but also allot work to successful bidders,” said MRVC chairman and managing director Prabhat Sahai.
 
 Projects under MUTP III, like under MUTP I and II, will be executed on a 50:50 basis between railways and the state government. “Since the railways has allocated Rs 411 crore, the state government will contribute a matching amount,” said an official.
 
 TOI had mentioned in its pre-budget report on February 1 that Mumbai was expected to get a substantial sum, particularly for MUTP III, which is worth Rs 10,085 crore. The concept plan for MUTP III was approved in 2011 and cabinet approval came in 2016. The project is planned to be completed in five years.
 
 MRVC is looking for funding from World Bank, which had backed MUTP I and II. “Even though loan negotiations are yet be concluded, it will not have any impact in floating or awarding of the contract,” said Sahai.
 
 Under MUTP III, a 3-km Airoli-Kalwa link will provide commuters travelling between Kalyan and Panvel a direct train link, reducing congestion at Thane station. The quadrupling of tracks between Dahanu Road and Virar will address the demand of burgeoning commuters from the region. It will also extend suburban services from Churchgate to Dahanu Road. The double-line Panvel-Karjat project will provide an alternative route between Karjat and CST via Panvel. It will be shorter by 23 km than that via Kalyan and will cut travel time between CST and Karjat by around 40 minutes. Procurement of new coaches under the project will enhance travel comfort and reduce congestion. The works proposed under trespass control at 22 locations are expected to significantly reduce trespass and provide safer environment for the public.
 
 MUTP II, which includes projects like 5th line between CST-Kurla, sixth line between Borivli-Mumbai Central, extension of harbour line up to Goregaon, has got Rs 137 crore. The state government will match that allocation.
 
 
