PANAJI: Former India coach   has been named acting technical director by the   (AIFF) following the departure of  . Scott packed his bags for Australia on Thursday after his contract came to an end and the   were quick in asking Medeira, former India captain, to step into his boots, at least for the next six months.

 Medeira, until now the AIFF's coach education instructor and development officer, will also function as the new director of coach education and will play an important role in the appointment of a coach for the India under-17 squad, preparing for the World Cup later this year. “Savio will be the technical director for the next six months.After that we will review his performance and decide on the way forward. Scott strongly feels that Savio can do the job of the technical director; he is good with coach education and has been looking after the academy as well,“ said AIFF general secretary  .
 
 Richard Hood, head of youth development at AIFF, has also been given additional responsibilities and the two have been tasked with taking Indian football forward. “Scott feels between the two of them, they can manage quite well.(We will) Give him some time and see how it works,“ said Das.
 
 Medeira and Hood will both be away in Kuala Lumpur next week for an international coaching conference and the task of ensuring that the India Under-17 World Cup squad faces no hurdles on the training field has been handed over to former India assistant coach Mariano Dias. The academy coaches will also have a role to play.
 
 “The under-17 team will be looked after, primarily by Savio, and the academy coaches. There is a basic training programme in place which will continue till we find a coach,“ said Das.
 
 Meanwhile, the AIFF has started the process of looking for Nicolai Adam's replacement by releasing an advertisement on its website. AIFF decided to part ways with the German coach following accusations of alleged verbal and physical abuse towards players.
 
 “The AIFF is looking for a highly qualified and experienced football coach, under 65 years, to prepare the Indian U-17 National team towards achieving a competitive performance in the Fifa-17 World Cup 2017, which will take place in India during October 6 to October 28,“ the AIFF said in its advertisement.
 
 
