PUNE: A table and a chair used by Babasaheb Ambedkar for drafting some parts of the Constitution, a medal that was awarded to an army personnel in 1917 for fighting in the First World War and the jersey that Sachin Tendulkar wore while being carried on the shoulders of his teammates after the 2011 cricket World Cup victory are some of the items on display at the three-day   ‘Museums of Pune’.

 The display has been organised to mark the   by Symbiosis Society’s Dr Ambedkar Museum and Memorial on Senapati Bapat Road.
 
  “There are around 36 museums in Pune but hardly three or four are well known. The founders and curators of these museums are conserving a part of our history and we should encourage them. For the first time, 12 museums in the city have come under one roof and we are hopeful that after this effort more people will visit museums,” said Sanjivani Mujumdar, director of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Museum and Memorial.
 
 The other museums participating in the exhibition include Arya Nagarjun Museum, which proudly displays various statues of Lord Buddha. Dilip Wankhede has been collecting these statues for the past 40 years and now has 1,200 statues in different poses made of different materials.
 
 Darshan Museum, a biographical museum which depicts the life-changing experience of a professor who became a saint, offers insight into Sadhu Vaswani’s teachings. Joshi’s Museum of Miniature Railways tries to showcase our surrounding world in miniatures. Ravish Joshi, who showcased the collection of by his father, not only inherited the museum but also made efforts to expand it.
 
 Pradnya Kadgave, a resident of Bhandarkar Road who entered the exhibition after seeing the banners, said, “It is fascinating. I was born and brought up in Pune but had no idea about any museum other than Kelkar and the one at Agakhan Palace. Now I know where I can take my guests to.”
 
 Meanwhile, a museum that traces the origin and evolution of bicycles, was inaugurated by mayor   in Karvenagar. A Cycle Muesum, which will be on permanent display, showcases 22 years of efforts that Vikram Pendse put in to build his collection.
 
 
