MARGAO: The latest order of the   (MHA) pronouncing Benaulim MLA   a citizen of India “and not a Portuguese national” has come as a huge relief for the many who had registered their births in Portugal but have not yet acquired a   or  . 

 Advocate Byron Rodrigues, legal counsel for Silva, speaking to TOI, pointed out that it was their contention that though they refuted the claim that Silva had registered his birth in Portugal, “even considering that to be the case, registration of one’s birth is only the first step of the long-drawn process of acquiring a Portuguese citizenship”. 
 
 “There are many other things that are being verified, including crime records, personal interviews, etc, before a Portuguese citizenship is bestowed on an individual. If Silva had acquired Portuguese citizenship on account of his birth being registered there, then he would have travelled to that country without even seeking a visa from Portugal. But that was not to be, which only goes to prove that registration of birth in Portugal is just a part of the whole process of acquiring its nationality,” Rodrigues said. 
 
  “The MHA order will be a precedent to be followed for several cases like that of Silva,” concurred lawyer Rajeev Gomes.
 
 Another legal expert, on the condition of anonymity, said that the foreign government verifies the intention of the applicant with regards to seeking Portuguese passport before the nationality is conferred upon him.
 
 “One may register his birth in Portugal for various reasons, but that doesn’t mean he has the intention of making Portugal his home. The Portuguese government, therefore, looks at various aspects – whether one has any moveable assets in Portugal, if he has made any sizeable investments there, etc – while processing his request. There are many who have registered their births in Portugal – not with the intention of moving to Portugal, but to facilitate their children to make a choice in that regard for a better future,” he explained. 
 
  The Portuguese government verifies the intention of the applicant with regards to seeking Portuguese passport before the nationality is conferred upon him
 
 
