Did you miss the first day of Amazon India Fashion Week, in association with Maybelline New York? Here’s everything that happened on the first day. The AIFW show was held Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium, Delhi. The first day was dedicated to 71 designers, who showcased different ensembles from corners of India. The opening show had 13 designers showcasing at The Handloom School Show, supported by Good Earth India and the closing show was a sari blast with Monica Dogra singing at the Vogue Sari Show.

 Here are the best highlights of Day 1:
 
 
 
 The Handloom School of Women Weave supported by Good Earth did the opening show for the 29th edition of AIFW. The show brought together 13 key designers - Akaaro, Antar-Agni, Eka, Good Earth, Neeru Kumar, Nicobar, Pero, Rajesh Pratap Singh, Raw Mango, Rohit Bal, Suket Dhir, Urvashi Kaur & 11:11 Eleven Eleven. Hues of pastel, white, grey ruled the ramp. The ensembles were created by talented students of The Handloom School.
 
  
  
  
 
 
 Indonesian designer, Novita Yunus, was present the Day 1 of AIFW. She presented her collection that reflected design techniques in batik and eco print. The collection Titled as Bumi Lagit (Earth and Sky) was inspired by the colour palettes of the autumn leaves and the cold winter skin. Bumi represented the falling leaves and Langit is symbolized by Surya Majapahit (The Sun of Kingdom of Majapahit). The outfits were a mix of kaftans, palazzos, and traditional embroidered kebayas.
  
  
  
 
 
 Ace designer, Madhu Jain showcased her collection at Day 1. Her collection celebrated her life long journey in crafts and textiles. The evening started with a singer, Raghav Meattle playing the guitar and singing songs like “Can’t help falling in love’’ and ‘’You look wonderful tonight.”
 "This year we completed 30 years of my label. We started in 1987. I don't do shows; I work with installations because I work with textiles. I think you can't see the work so closely at shows like you can at installations. The occasion was so special with the emphasis being on crafts and textiles which are the principle on which my entire 30 years is based," Madhu Jain told IANS.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 The duo designers, Abraham & Thakore showcased the new fashion buying format at the fashion show this year. The collection that was presented, will be available soon for sale in Delhi and Bangalore stores. And, also few selected pop ups shops in Mumbai, Chennai and Kolkata this March onwards. The collection ‘Back to work’ was about simple separates in pure cotton, which is easy to wear for work every day. The collection was made keeping urban Indian women in mind and the hot weather in India. The collection was in hues of ivory, madder, indigo and black.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 The fashion show also saw the presence of Jharkhand Silk Textile (Jharcraft). Jharkhand is India’s largest producer of Tussar and Kuchai silks. The collection was a showcase of saris in tussar silk to kurtas woven from kucha—they were created from one of the best organic fabrics of Jharkhand. Designers Rina Dhaka, Shaina NC, Shruti Sancheti, Divya and Ambika Jain showcased their collections from Jharkhand’s rich fabrics and handlooms at the Jharcraft show.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Vogue India completed 10 years in India and celebrated it via Vogue Empower. As part of their initiative, Vogue took the task to empower   by bringing the sari in spotlight. This was their first show at AIFW, where designers like Manish Malhotra, Anita Dongre and AM:PM participated. The show kicked off by Monica Dongra singing in a beautiful white sari, while the collection was a mix of unique drapes, silhouettes and different fabrics. 
 
  
  
 
