GURUGRAM: The state government has finally come up with its draft rules to set up a   regulatory body mandated under the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act or  , passed by the   in 2016. But most ongoing housing projects, which have been delayed, are left out in the draft rules, much to the disappointment of many investors.

 The draft Rera rules seek to exclude projects which have applied for occupancy certificate or part completion certificate, provided the same is granted by the competent authority within three months of the application. Plotted colony projects which have received completion or part completion certificate and building blocks of integrated complexes like group housing, commercial, cyber park or cyber city that have received occupancy certificate, have also been let off in the rules.
 
 “(However) the remaining area/building blocks of the colony for which part completion/occupation certificate has not been granted/issued by the competent authority, shall not be excluded,” says the draft rules. So, if a project has 10 towers and part occupation certificate has been granted to four towers, then only the remaining six towers of the project will be covered under Haryana Rera.
 
 Moreover, the draft Rera rules have a provision wherein developers can get extension for completion of their projects by submitting to authorities details of the same as well as reasons for the delay.
 
 The department of town and country planning ( ), which issued the draft Rera rules on Friday, has sought suggestions and objections from people towards the same in the next 15 days.
 
 The original Rera rules, issued by Union ministry of housing and urban poverty alleviation, which were expected to be a model for other states, define ongoing projects as the ones that are under construction and have not received completion certificate on May 1 this year, the day when the Act comes into effect.
 
 “With such provisions, large numbers of ongoing projects which have been the prime concern of homebuyers in the state would not be covered under Rera. 
 
 Instead of protecting the interest of homebuyers, the draft rules seems to have given relaxation to developers,” said real estate expert Pradeep Mishra.
 
 According to an Assocham report, released on April 9, a large number of projects are under construction in Haryana, and on an average, real estate projects are running 44 months behind schedule. For the past one year, homebuyers of several projects in   have been protesting against the delay in delivery.
 
 A senior DTCP official told TOI, “People have two weeks to give their suggestions and objections, following which the final notification will be issued. Developers will have three months to get their projects registered with Haryana Rera.”
 
