GHAZIABAD: Four days after the local police in   cremated the body of a 24-year-old auto driver as ‘unidentified’ despite his family having had registered a ‘man missing’ complaint, the inspector general (rules & manuals),  , recommended an inquiry into his mysterious death and cremation. The IG made the recommendation after local residents in Sahibabad complained to him over alleged police lapses in the case.

 The local police, meanwhile, booked four persons for the   of the auto driver on Monday.
 
 The victim, Mandeep, used to live with his family in D Block of Lajpat Nagar in Sahibabad. On July 9, he had gone out for a walk around 10pm but did not return. His father, Girish Negi (50), told TOI that their attempts to trace him on the next day proved futile.
 
 “On July 11, we registered a ‘missing person’ complaint with the police. Over the next three days, we regularly followed up with cops who said Mandeep had not been traced yet,” said Negi.
 
 However, on July 15, Mandeep’s family members received a call from police at around 4pm asking them to come over to the local police outpost at Shyam Park Extension. “My younger son, Rajiv, went to the police outpost. He was told that Mandeep’s body had been cremated as ‘unidentified’ on July 13. It is puzzling how cops from Sahibabad police station cremated him without informing us despite a   complaint registered by us. It is still more puzzling as to how cops identified Mandeep two days after the cremation and decided to inform us,” added Negi.
 
 According to police, Mandeep was beaten up by a few men when he was strolling adjacent to a park near his house on the night of July 9. He was taken to a hospital where he succumbed to his injuries on July 12.
 
 The police had registered an FIR under Section 364 (kidnapping for murder) of IPC. “We have added the section pertaining to murder in this FIR. The autopsy report has revealed that Mandeep died due to brain hemorrhage sustained from head injuries. The accused will be nabbed soon,” ASP Anoop Kumar Singh said. 
 
 “I have recommended an independent inquiry by an official of the rank of additional superintendent of police from outside Ghaziabad district. Moreover, I have also asked for transferring out the officials involved in the case till completion of the inquiry,” IG Thakur told TOI.
 
 
