LUDHIANA: The anti-narcotics cell of Ludhiana police seized 452g heroin in two different cases. The contraband is worth Rs2.26 crore in the international market.

 In the first case, police arrested Dilbagh Singh, 29,  , 40, Jaspal Singh, 31 (all of Goraya, Jalandhar) and  , 44, of Hamirpur district in Himachal Pradesh.
 
 On Friday the four were coming from Jail road side in a car and took a U-turn when they saw a check point established by anti-narcotics cell at Kakka village. The police party gave them a chase and nabbed them. On search, police recovered 422g heroin from their possession worth Rs 2.11crore.
 
 According to information, Dilbagh Singh is a truck driver in Dubai and had come to India for a two-month holiday. Vijay Kumar is a watchman in his village Dhaletan of Jalandhar. Accused Jaspal Singh is a gas cylinder supplier and accused Parveen Kumar is a farmer.
 
 In-charge of anti-narcotics cell   said accused Jaspal Singh and Parveen Kumar have already been booked under different NDPS cases in Ludhiana and Himachal Pradesh, respectively.
 
 Further the cop said Praveen Kumar has been awarded 10-year imprisonment and Rs 1 lakh fine in Himachal Pradesh, but he had challenged the order and was on bail.
 
 “Praveen Kumar is the kingpin of the gang. He purchased heroin from Srinagar to sell it to his customers in city. While Praveen deals with big customers, other accused sold heroin to small customers,” said SI Harbans Singh.
 
 In second case, the cell arrested Jagdev Singh, 34, and Surjit Singh, 53, of village Koomkalan near civil hospital. A check point was established near Civil Hospital, Ludhiana for checking vehicles. The accused were in Ford Fiesta car that was stopped at a check point and on search police recovered 30g heroin priced at Rs 15 lakh in the international market.
 
 On questioning, the accused revealed that they used to purchase heroin from Parveen Kumar of Himachal Pradesh and sell it further to customers.
 
 Police said that the accused would be presented before the court to get them on remand. Police are also hoping to trace other suppliers and customers soon.
 
