BENGALURU:  's 2011 Test debut against Sri Lanka in Galle was promising, but over the years the subcontinent hasn't be much of a happy hunting ground for the 29-year-old-finger spinner. 

 Till Saturday, that is.
 
 At the beginning of the Australian season, Lyon was far from taking his berth in the lineup for granted. But on a sun-kissed Saturday, he did more than assert his presence in the team.
 
 The New South Wales-born spinner added many records with his eight-wicket haul in 22.2 overs, which left the famed Indian batting line-up looking toothless when challenged by spin.
 
 Lyon's personal best was also the best bowling figures by an overseas bowler on Indian soil, and he also became the most successful Aussie bowler against India. The turnaround for the spinners started much before his impressive bowling in the opening Test in Pune, in which Lyon was overshadowed by Stephan O' Keefe's heroics.
 
 Like a diligent student, Lyon studied the art of finger bowling by sometimes picking people's brains and on other occasions trying to learn by watching videos of India's spin wizard  . His other `teachers' include Sri Lankan spin ace  , personal coach John Davison and South Australia and Sydney Sixers coach Darren Berry.
 
 As he walked into the post-match presser the tremendous feat had far from sunk in, as he was sent out as the nightwatchman. "This is very special. I don't think it's hit me because for the last hour I was padded up as nightwatchman. This is actually the first time I've smiled. I'm very lucky to be able to take eight wickets, but there's still another 10 out there that we need to take as a team. It's all about Australia's success; I don't care who takes wickets. As long as we're taking wickets as a bowling unit, and hopefully we're winning," Lyon explained.
 
 On his learning curve, he pointed out, "After the tour of Sri Lanka (in 2016) I went home and reflected on my performance there. I worked very hard in the lead-up to the BBL (Big Bash League). I was going to the matches two hours before and bowling in the nets. John Davison and Darren Berry worked on my strength and obviously I studied what Ashwin does. He is one of the best spinners in the world. Credit has to go to John Davison and Darren Berry for putting in the hard work and it is very satisfying."
 
 Speaking about the lessons learnt from the 2013 tour's 4-0 whitewash in India, Lyon said, "I learnt a lot on and off the field. It's just about learning to play cricket in tough conditions. India is the toughest place to play cricket, we know that. You're outside your comfort zone. It's an interesting wicket. It's what we expected over here. We knew we weren't going to have much grass on the wicket.
 
 "I didn't expect so many cracks on day one but they're there," Lyon said.
 
