GURUGRAM: Hundreds of students from   thronged the deputy commissioner’s office at mini-secretariat on Friday to   against the university authorities for allegedly charging them hefty development fees for facilities they were never provided with. 

 Students shouting slogans and carrying placards against the university forced the DC, Hardeep Singh, to give them a patient hearing.
 
 Talking to TOI, the students alleged that Ansal University was extorting money from them in the name of development fees, while all the claims it made about providing facilities like sports centre, swimming pool and gym turned out to be a “cruel joke”. 
 
 “One of our students, Yogender Pal, is on hunger strike for the last four days. The university takes a hefty amount from us in the form of development fees but provides nothing in return. They are also engaged in degree-selling business,” said  , a BTech student at the university. The students claimed some people “who even did not have their attendance on the university registry, received degrees”. “We have evidence of all these, even the names of the students who benefited,” said a student. “For providing sports facilities, they charge Rs 10,000 from us every year, but if someone visits our university they wouldn’t even find a volley ball,” said Ankit Dalmia, a BBA third-year student. Some women students claimed there was no security at the university hostels.
 
  “We feel unsafe. We tried to take up this issue with the authorities. We asked them to show the university norms because we are entitled to know where our money is going and how it is being spent on our welfare. But they refused to share any information with us,” said a student, who did not wish to be named.
 
 Anil Gujjar, another student who represented the delegation that met the DC, said the meeting was inconclusive. “The DC was very cordial to us. He listened to our demands very patiently. He agreed that our demands were fair. During the meeting, two representatives from the university were also called. They said the university will agree to most of our demands, not all. But we will not call off the strike until all our demands are met,” he said. Among the issues the university said it will agree with the students is reducing the late fee, ordering sports equipment, creating a grievance cell and waving off low attendance fees.
 
 When contacted, a spokesperson for Ansal University said they have resolved the issue amicably with the students “We have agreed to most of their legitimate demands. But all demands cannot be met as they are not legitimate. For instance, they asked us to reduce the minimum attendance to 50% from the existing 75. This is against the   ruling. Also it’s a false allegation that our hostels don’t have security. There are hostel wardens as well as three to four security guards,” she said.
 
 
