COIMBATORE: The OPS camp, the support base of which had been dwindling, might soon suffer yet another major blow with Kavundampalayam MLA   announcing his plans to switch loyalty to   (Amma) led by chief minister Edappadi K Palanisami.

 Arukutty was the first one to extended support to O Panneerselvam when the latter revolted against party general secretary V K Sasikala in February this year. The MLA alleged that he was   in the OPS camp after he hailed the EPS government for announcing several development schemes for his constituency. He, however, evaded questions on whether he would meet EPS soon and join him.
 
 “I thanked Palanisamy and a few ministers at the assembly session for announcing schemes for my assembly constituency. After this, I was sidelined by Pannerselvam and other MLAs supporting him,” Arukutty said.
 
 “I have consulted the voters of my constituency to take a decision. I want both factions (of AIADMK) to merge soon,” he added.
 
  P R G Arunkumar and Mettupalayam MLA O K Chinnaraj are still with the OPS camp. They had met the city police officials on Thursday to obtain permission to conduct MGR centenary celebrations at Codissia Grounds in Peelamedu on July 29 where OPS would address a public meeting. The two hadn’t invited Arukutty to meet the city police officials.
 
 Arunkumar and Chinnaraj on Friday came down on Arukutty, saying that MLA wanted to break ranks with the faction and was citing lame excuses for the same. “I was the first one to thank the government for announcing schemes for my assembly constituency. Only after that Arukutty thanked the government. So, no one is sidelined in the OPS faction,” Chinnaraj said.
 
 Arunkumar said Arukutty was part of the team to organise MGR centenary celebrations at Codissia Grounds till they noticed some changes in him. “We noticed changes in Arukutty after he visited Chennai to cast vote for the presidential election. We do not know what type of pressure he is facing now,” Arunkumar said.
 
 The Coimbatore North MLA also said they were planning to ask Arukutty to preside over the public meeting scheduled for July 29. “It’s Arukutty who started to avoid us. And now, he has levelled charges against us,” Arunkumar said.
 
 The chief minister would attend an MGR centenary function at Palladam in Tirupur district at 5pm on Saturday. Arukutty MLA, who is invited to attend the function, is likely to meet Palanisami in person and extent his support.
 
