VISAKHAPATNAM:  , located close to Simhachalam Railway Station in Gopalapatnam, falls under ward number 36 of   ( ), lacks basic amenities. There are a lot of issues that the local residents suffer from and they need to be looked into by the civic as well as railway authorities.

 Nearly 500 households reside in Prasanthi Nagar. But the area lacks basic amenities such as proper drainage system, street lights, roads, drinking water and individual toilets besides safety of the residents. Uncleared garbage, stray dogs, cattle, rodent and mosquito menace are also rampant in the area close to the Simhachalam temple. 
 
 R  , a retired railway employee residing in the area, said, “The area is located along the Chennai-Howrah main line. The road along the railway track lacks streetlights. When we lodged a complaint with the GVMC, the officials said they do not have the jurisdiction to look into the infrastructure in railway-owned premises. The railways also did not negotiate with the GVMC to set up streetlights. As a result, we face a lot of problems after sunset and the local residents are always at risk of accidents.” 
 
 Another resident P Mahesh complained that some of the residents leave their cattle to roam on the roads and cause inconvenience to other people. “The GVMC should hold awareness campaigns on the importance of cleanliness and how hygiene can be improved in localities similar to ours. They should also penalise the owners who let their cattle free,” he added.
 
 “Garbage cleaned from the drainage canals are left along the roads for days before it eventually goes back to the canals. GVMC proudly says Vizag was adjudged the fifth cleanest city in the country in the Swachh Survekshan competition last year and this year it aims for the third spot. But what is the use of such ranks if residents of certain localities like ours are forced to live in unhygienic conditions,” questioned P Mohana Rao, a Visakhapatnam Steel Plant employee who resides in Prasanthi Nagar. 
 
 The GVMC should hold awareness campaigns on the importance of cleanliness and how hygiene can be improved in localities similar to ours. They should also penalise the owners who let their cattle free
 
 
