LUCKNOW: It was like the last over of the   match on Tuesday. Candidates arrived with enthusiasm and under cover of pandits and maulanas, lest anything went wrong. Some candidates delivered a statement in favour of development while others chanted religious slogans. At both ends of the Collectorate, band baaja and dhol added to the din.

 As   candidate for Lucknow north seat Abhishek Mishra arrived, his supporters chanted ‘Yeh puttar jeetega uttar’, ‘Akhilesh ki fauj hai, Pradesh ki mauj hai’ and ‘Akhilesh Yadav, Abhishek Mishra zindabad’ to the beat of dhol.
 
 The 400 metre stretch of Collectorate turned festive as supporters celebrated after the nomination and many candidates of the same party for different constituencies hugged each other. Anurag Yadav, SP candidate for Bakshi Ka Talab (BKT) seat arrived with hundreds of supporters amid loud cheers.
 
 When female candidates like Swati Singh from BJP who is fighting for Sarojninagar seat and Raj Bala Rawat of SP contesting for Malihabad seat arrived at the gate, many lawyers turned into supporters.
 
 Swati Singh’s supporters shouted ‘Jai Shree Ram’. Speaking to TOI, she said, “Main election jeetne ke baad har jagah jaane ki koshish karoongi aur jahan nahin jaa payi wahan mera kaam jaayega.”
 
 Raj Bala Rawat said, “The chief minister selected me, so I see no rivals in the race.”
 
 Known to be Akhilesh’s right hand man, Anurag Bhaduria, famous for conducting Indian Gramin Cricket League (IGCL) arrived to loud cheers not only from his supporters but also from Congress workers. Bhaduria has been asked by the CM to contest for Lucknow east seat on a Congress ticket, because the party had no suitable candidate. Bhadauria enjoys support of Fakhir Siddiqui and Rehan Naeem, who is contesting for Lucknow west on SP ticket too and Maroof Khan, contesting for Lucknow central for Congress. The group chanted slogans like ‘Balla ghumaayenge, kismat banaayenge, Anurag Bhaduria ko jitaayenge’. Supporters also cheered for Maroof Khan with ‘Madhya ko aur chamkana hai Maroof ko jitaana hai’.
 
 Leaders of small parties too came with candidates in support. There was a big noise when Kafeel Ahmad from   contesting for Lucknow north and Independent candidates and P K Singh a retired PCS, contesting for Lucknow east arrived to file nomination. 
 
