VISAKHAPATNAM: With summer approaching, Vizagiites are apprehensive about the water situation in the city. The   ( ) and other authorities should take measures immediately to address the water woes, especially maintain the reservoirs properly, implement rain water harvesting and generating public awareness against water wastage, they say. Demand-supply gap 

 Vizag is one of the fastest growing cities in India, particularly post bifurcation. However, the water supply has not grown commensurately with growth in population with the deficit between demand and supply growing by the day. This year, thanks to the northeast monsoon, the water levels in the seven reservoirs appear to be better than last year. However, there should not be any scope for complacency as this summer is expected to be very severe, lest the vulnerable sections living in slums and hill tops suffer. On the part of authorities, the augmentation of PLIS (Yeleru canal) should be expedited as it will supply an additional 275 cusecs to the city as well as create sufficient storage space for the remaining 1,000 cusecs from the scheme for future plans. Desiltation of reservoirs and arresting leakages in the pipelines should be taken up on a war footing. Illegal water business and unauthorised water use should be thwarted.
 
 Maradapu Srinivasa Rao, Retired bank employee
 
 Prevent wastage
 
 The city is self-sufficient in drinking water as it is surrounded by many lakes and reservoirs such as Mudasarlova, Kambala, Raiwada, Gambhiram, Tatipudi and Yeluru canal. At the same time, people should be responsible while consuming water and should know that water saved is water generated. Plenty of water is wasted from the public taps in the streets. To generate awareness that water is precious, the civic authorities should issue water bills on actual consumption like electricity bills instead of levying a nominal fee.
 
 V Ramesh, Retired employee
 
 Rain water harvesting 
 
 GVMC should ensure all leakages in water reservoirs and overhead tanks are sealed and also strictly implement the ‘Rain Water Harvesting Scheme’ which has been successfully implemented in a state facing water crisis like   over the past five years. Further, public awareness through social media and the press should be undertaken for saving water and utilisation.
 
 R Sekar
 
 Save trees, set up borewells
 
 To tackle water woes, the government should come forward and issue permission to set up private borewells wherever possible so that water problems get reduced. Trees should be saved from being axed as their absence in the long run would adversely impact rainfall and environment as a whole. When there is less rainfall, it hits supply of drinking water as well as water for irrigation, crop or food production.
 
 Choppa Rama Raju, Private employee
 
 Special supply units
 
 Civic bodies need to act fast on the water scarcity problem in the district by establishing special water supply units and deploying tankers on standby for emergency purpose. The administration should ensure that ground water is available in all the areas, especially in apartments. The authorities should take necessary steps to supply water at regular intervals as the usage of water will be more during the summer season in suburban areas.
 
 Lohit Ganivada, IT Professional
 
 Maintain reservoirs
 
 The existing reservoirs should be properly maintained. Power cuts, insufficient supply, irresponsible workers and bad usage of water, old leaking pipelines are all adding to the problem. All these issues must be addressed by the civic authorities at the ground level.
 
 Satya Chunduri, Teacher
 
 Vizag city has some beautiful parks, especially lining  . But are there adequate number of parks in colonies and localities? Are the maintenance of the existing city parks and amusement facilities satisfactory? Are more parks required? If you feel strongly about this or any other issue, mail us at sayitloudvizag.toi@gmail.com. Do not forget to send in a photograph of yours along with your opinion and phone number
 
 
