CHANDIGARH: Punjab’s deteriorating   and the urgency to deal with it got the attention of governor  . In his address in   on Tuesday, Badnore also made some remarks about the demand for a white paper.

 “The state government is mulling to bring out a white paper on development, governance reforms and the financial position of the state, clearly apprising the common man of the present situation inherited by the incumbent government,” he said.
 
 There are roughly unpaid bills of Rs 6,000 crore, including flagship scheme of atta-dal for below poverty line (BPL) people in Punjab and Punjab’s bank balance went into negative for a record 137 times in 2016-17 when it sought overdraft limit from the RBI besides putting properties worth Rs 2,200 crore on mortgage between December 2013 and 2015.
 
 Badnore used harsh words to describe the current financial situation. “The state government has inherited an empty treasury, with a revenue deficit of Rs 13,484 crore and the fiscal deficit of Rs 26,801 crore. Large borrowings coupled with lack of any concerted efforts to increase the revenue and control the expenditure aggravated the financial stress,” he told the House.
 
 He also hit out at the shortfall in targets of state excise and VAT revenue collections, saying they were never achieved. In an apparent dig at the   (SAD) government, Badnore said the total debt of the state increased manifold from Rs 48,344 crore in 2006-2007 to Rs 1,82,537 crore at the end of 2016-2017.
 
 “The government during the past two years borrowed Rs 15,632 crore on behalf of the   (PSPCL) alone,” he told the House.
 
 “In order to settle the gap in cash credit limit (CCL) for procurement, the government took another loan of Rs 31,000 crore which has further burdened the state. Even the Atta Dal Scheme and the urban and rural missions were undertaken by borrowing huge amount of money from commercial banks, mortgaging a large number of properties of the state."
 
 Badnore also hit out at the “increased political interference in policing during SAD regime”, saying cops were controlled through halka in charges.
 
 He blamed them for forcible occupation of government and private businesses, both in transport and mining sectors in the recent past.
 
 The governor also took a dig at unsolved cases of desecration of Guru Granth Sahib and the subsequent crimes involving assassinations and operations of gangsters in the state, saying the cases were not fully resolved.
 
 
