Well, it’s that time of the year again. Once again the stage will be set for divas and dudes in white waiting to be drenched in a sea of  . Everyone’s into planning that perfect get-together where they can indulge in some colourful and joyous moments. Planning for a   or a Dhuleti party, we suggest some Holi 2017 celebration ideas. While this celebration is all about music, fun and lots of mouth-watering food, playing the host to a perfect Holi party really needs some prior planning and making all the arrangements.
 
  
 
  While pre-Dhuleti parties have already let youngsters warm up to the festival of colours in the city, with the spring equinox leading to longer days and shorter nights, one can always enjoy the festive mood the best at the outdoors. So, spruce up your lawn, deck up your terrace with lovely trinkets, give your garden a fine manicure, create a landscape that will bring all the zing to make your venue the happening party destination.
 
  
  
  
 
  When it’s an occasion like Holi, the art of acoustics is one thing that one can hardly give a miss on. So, pep the atmosphere up with a music console that will complement the mood of a medley of colours. Pick up some peppy numbers. Well, you will be tempted to pick up those Bollywood Holi numbers. You can add more fizz by adding some Indian fusion — classic and trendy.
  
  
 
  It’s common during Dhuleti to swallow some specks of colour smeared on your face along with your food. So, make sure your dining area has only organic and safe colors which are edible. The safest is turmeric, which is a vibrant colours and safe for your stomach as well. Make sure to wash your hands and wipe your face with wet wipes before indulging in foodie moments.
  
  
 
  While your ensemble and your face say all about the colourful story of the occasion, why should the platter be bereft of creativity! Arranging your food, especially the snacks and sweets in a very creative way that will appeal to all, especially the little ones in the family will add more fun to your parties. Taking from arranging your crockery in eye appealing ways to placing some miniature pichkaris as props will definitely make even elders take part in some colour play.
  
  
 
  When it’s an occasion like Holi, it’s gotta be mithai moments. While chandrakala and gujiya are the all time must haves at parties as sweet offerings to guests, the sweet fare also can have a variety of traditional home-made stuff like sukhadi, gaun na ladvo, phirni alongside syrupy temptations like rasgulla, gulab jamun and some pan-hot jalebis dunked in the syrup served piping hot.
 
  
  
  
  (By Navya Maliniyv)
