PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: Serving a jolt to the   ahead of municipal elections in Pimpri Chinchwad, its leader and former mayor   joined the BJP in chief minister Devendra Fadnavis’s presence late on Sunday night in Mumbai.

 BJP’s Chinchwad MLA Laxman Jagtap and Bhosari MLA Mahesh Landge, who himself joined the party two months ago, were catalytic in bringing Pansare — a Muslim face — into the party.
 
 Pansare, former president of the NCP’s Pimpri Chinchwad unit, was upset with MLC Anil Bhosale’s nomination for a second term. The former mayor was one of the close associates of NCP chief   as well as of former deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar. 
 
 If Pansare’s switchover to the rival team would affect the poll prospects of the NCP would be keenly observed. 
 
 The BJP, on the other end, is trying to make inroads into the NCP bastion. It had got 81 seats in the 2012 municipal elections, while the BJP won only three.
 
 This is the second biggest jolt after five NCP MLAs joined the BJP in the chief minister’s presence in November last year at the launch of ‘Bhosari Vision 2020’.
 
 A leading NCP veteran, Pansare was elected mayor in 1992-93. He was also nominated for the erstwhile Haveli Assembly constituency, as well as Maval Lok Sabha constituency. But he lost because of alleged internal politics. In 2012, he was appointed the president of the state consumer protection council. In 2013, Pansare joined the  , but soon returned to the NCP.
 
 With Pansare’s move to the BJP, it would be a Herculean task for Ajit Pawar to get the maximum number of NCP corporators elected in the ensuing election. Pawar has been inaugurating a number of development projects in the past few weeks as elections are around the corner. He is likely to give the election responsibility to former MLAs Vilas Lande and Anna Bansode.
 
 The spokesperson of Pimpri Chinchwad unit of the NCP, Yogesh Behl, said, “He (Pansare) was the seniormost leader in the unit, but the void he left would be filled by young party workers. This will not have much impact on the electoral prospects of the party in the 2017 municipal elections. Voters are bigger than any leader. We shall not hurt the voters in any way and work for fulfilling our electoral promises. Our efforts to gain a majority and return to power for a third consecutive term will continue.”
 
 
