Ludhiana: The two-day Pashu Palan Mela in Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (Gadvasu) witnessed launch of several new products starting from food products to machines that will be beneficial for farmers.

 Black currant lassi
 
 College of Dairy Science and Technology has developed a new variety of lassi with natural fruit pulp extracted from black currant. The lassi, which contains high concentration of antioxidants, comes with lot of health benefits, said Dr S Sivakumar, assistant scientist, College of Dairy Science and Technology, Gadvasu. He said it would help improve the gut health, blood flow, eye health, skin care and also improve the immune system.
 
 Shrimp pickle
 
 Shrimp pickle prepared by College of Fisheries was introduced for the first time in Punjab. Vijay Kumar Reddy, working as assistant scientist, department of harvest and post-harvest technology, College of Fisheries, Gadvasu, introduced Vannaei shrimp pickle from the saline water of Fazilka and Muktsar with the technical advisory of the GADVASU.
 
 Fish products
 
 With an aim to boost farmers’ income and increase fish marketing and consumption in Punjab, the aquaculture department has developed various technologies for processing of fish and shellfish. For the purpose, the department has trained the final-year fisheries students in various aspects of processing and value addition of fish and shellfish. During the training, students developed various value-added products like fish cutlets, fish balls, fish pickles, fish soup, fish nuggets, fish sausages, fish protein powder, which were displayed as well as sold during the mela.
 
 Research on fish feed
 
 College of Fisheries has come out with fish feed which contains ginger, garlic and alovera. Results are very encouraging. This model was also introduced during the mela.
 
 Wheat straw cleaning machine
 
 A model of wheat straw (turi) cleaning machine, developed by Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Barnala, was launched during Pashu Palan Mela at Gadvasu. It is used to separate impurities, dust particles like stones and mud from the wheat straw. Dr Prahlad Singh Tawar, director, Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Barnala, said the cost of the medium sized machine is Rs 10,000 (approximately).
 
 
