When the Goods and Services Tax (GST) rolls out on July 1, it will not only herald the dawn of a new tax era, but also promote ease of doing business. A uniform tax structure will bring down costs and firms can forget inter-state tax hiccups and expand their businesses. The expansion, say experts, will open up a huge job market in which there will be nearly four lakh jobs for chartered accountants who would reap the benefits of regulatory changes and a new tax regime.

 Since GST will change the indirect tax platform, many auditing firms and companies have set up special wings to adapt to GST. “Migrating to GST is going to take some time. Many companies have set up dedicated wings to prepare for the GST platform,” said Bengaluru-based chartered accountant P Shivanand Nayak.
 
 Founder and CEO of Clear Tax, Archit Gupta, said GST will open employment opportunities at different levels. “There will be need for three to four lakh CAs once GST is implemented. It will also increase the demand for candidates at the subordinate level in the financial and accounting departments,” said Gupta. At the same time, the boundaries between states will get eliminated. “You will then see auditing firms from different states tying up with one other to handle their clients,” said Gupta.
 
 A new set of regulations means that the tax compliance burden of companies has increased. “This will keep the demand for CAs high. With all the tax procedures becoming online, we need more young professionals who are tech-savvy,” said Coimbatore-based chartered accountant C S  .
 
 “The Centre is pushing for a   and as we move towards it we will have more tax compliant people. This will also open opportunities for more CAs,” said Gupta.
 
 Besides GST, there are other regulatory reforms which have prepared a fertile field for a CA. 
 
 “It is a part of the profession to see regulatory changes. But one has learn and re-learn,” said Nayak. The Institute for Chartered Accountants of India, New Delhi conducts   for practising chartered accountants to keep themselves abreast of these reforms, he said.
 
 Shivanand says today’s CAs face unique problems. “It is very important to be an expert in one section of the profession. In the olden days, there were three opportunities — industry, auditing firm and practice. But today if you are not an expert in one of the fields, say auditing or indirect tax, then it will be difficult to survive,” said Nayak, adding that several new-gen CAs are unsure about their choices. “Many CAs are unclear about their interests. Some pick up indirect tax based on what their seniors or family members say. And two years later, they realise that it was not their cup of tea and move to auditing.”
 
 Gupta says being an expert in one section will bring opportunities at the national level. “With the GST being implemented, state boundaries will be eliminated. So when there is a uniform tax platform, consultancy for indirect tax could fetch national level  ,” he said.
 
