GURUGRAM: The recurring complaint of office-goers at   is that frequency of tiresome   is worsening by the day, despite recent infrastructure improvements such as underpasses and road diversions. Commuters keep making frantic calls to TOI, claiming jams in the morning and evening   often last for up to 2-3 hours. 

 “For seven months, I’ve tried putting up with this,” said Mukul Rathore, who shifted jobs and arrived from Bangalore in January this year. “I leave at 8.30am every day, but can’t reach office in Udyog Vihar before 10-10.30am.” Rathore said every day, the jam starts near Sikanderpur Metro while driving down Golf Course Road. “That’s where the ordeal begins,” he said. “Until one reaches Shankar Chowk, the traffic barely moves 2-3 ft every minute. On top of that, everyone keeps honking. I am left with a headache every day.”
 
 Bhupinder Singh, who works in Cyber Hub, said the morning rush-hour jams are worse than evening ones. “It’s not that it’s any better at night,” he said. “But in the morning, once you enter Cyber City from any side — NH-8, MG Road, Golf Course Road or Shankar Chowk — it’s all jam-packed.” 
 
 He said the reason for recurring traffic jams was that Cyber City has become a confluence of most of the city’s important roads. “There are three routes from MG Road — a flyover, a road and an underpass. Commuters going to Cyber City, who take the flyover, are supposed to take a right, while commuters going to same destination but approaching via the underpass, have to take a left,” he said. “Such an incoherent traffic plan is bound to throw up chaos.”
 
 Commuters also said DTC buses coming from Shankar Chowk also aggravate the bottleneck. “A lot of passengers wait on the roads for DTC buses arriving from Shankar Chowk, crowding it. It’s not the main reason for jams, but is definitely a factor,” said Disha, who works in Cyber City.
 
 Traffic police inspector for Cyber City area Ravi Khundia told TOI that jams were a result of the area’s proximity with Udyog Vihar. “We try our best to ensure smooth traffic ,” he said. “But with Udyog Vihar and NH close by, there are a lot of vehicles, causing jams,” he said. Khundia said he has only five cops — a home guard, an ASI and three constables — to regulate Cyber City traffic. “But remember, NH and other nearby areas don’t come under my jurisdiction,” he said.
 
 
