Nagpur: In this month’s second accident due to stray cattle, a 70-year-old man died on Sunday of injuries suffered in an attack at Netaji Market in Sitabuldi on Thursday. On September 14, Subhash Dev, a resident of Jattarodi near Dhantoli, was walking in the market when a bull attacked him. “A large group of stray cattle is always present in the flower market. The main reason is dumping of vegetable waste. My uncle was walking when the animal suddenly attacked him,” said Dev’s nephew Shailesh. Police officials said that after being attacked by the bull, Dev had fallen unconscious. “We rushed him to Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), where doctors said he had sustained severe chest injuries. Many of his bones were broken,” they added. After being hospitalized for three days, Dev succumbed to the injuries on Sunday. Dhantoli police registered an accidental death report (ADR). The post mortem was performed on Monday. Slamming the increasing number of strays loitering on city roads, Dev’s kin said these cattle pose serious threat to human lives. “Almost everyday, there is a traffic jam in our area due to cows and buffaloes sitting in the middle of the roads. There have been several incidents of scooterists falling or motorists colliding with animals,” Shailesh said. He demanded that Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) should take strict against cattle owners who have let their animals roam free. “They fail to realize the danger their animals pose,” he said. This is the second death and fourth major accident due to stray cattle in last one year. On August 24, 70-year-old Tarabai Zade was severely injured after being attacked at Zade Square in Lalganj. After being in intensive care unit for almost a week, the victim is now stable, but yet to recover completely. Zade’s family too had blamed cattle owners for their negligent attitude. Last year, 25-year-old Sagar Telang and 30-year-old Manoj Durgesh had met with a serious accident after their bike collided with stray cattle at Futala. Activists said that civic authorities take action for some time only when a major incident occurs. “We need stronger norms. Rather than letting go of cattle owners after collecting fine, they should be put behind bars. Cattle owners have no fear of action and thus continue to release their animals on roads. The number of cattle deaths too has increased,” said animal activist Smita Mire.