HYDERABAD: A 17-year-old youngster who sexually abused and later murdered a 10-year-old boy on the terrace of a  , was a   himself. He was reportedly sexually assaulted by two persons a year ago. Also, he sodomised 15 children in the past few years.

 During investigation, the Hyderabad police came to know that the accused himself was a victim. Two persons--Mohammed Talah and Mohammed Ghalib--had abused the 17-year-old a year ago and subsequently he too started exploiting other children.
 
  
  
 
 On interrogation, he confessed he has abused 15 children. “Since it is a sensitive issue, we are probing it carefully as it can disturb the parents of those 15 children,“ police said.
 
 The teenager turned out to be a tough nut for police to crack. Initially, he denied having any knowledge about the victim. When police confronted him with CCTV footage in which he was seen in the company of the victim on June 28, he started   to cover his tracks, but finally confessed that he killed the boy and even showed the lo cation of the body.
  
  
 Police learnt that the culprit had been visiting the terrace of the government school building, where he abandoned the body , twice every day to check whether the murder came to light or not.
 
 Ever since the parents of the victim started searching for their missing son, the culprit, who works at a pan shop, used to frequent the boy's house to gather information about the case. He used to even extend moral support and tell boy's parents that their son would return soon and not lose hope. When worried parents went without food in grief after their son did not return, he would take food to the victim's parents.
 
 “On July 2, the teenager's sister's marriage was scheduled. He feared if the victim disclosed the sodomy episode, his sister's marriage might get cancelled. For him, his sister's marriage was the most important thing and that could be one of the reasons for the murder. So, food prepared for the marriage and other ceremonies, the accused used to make a parcel and give it to the victim's family. Also, he would visit the murder spot daily to check whether the body was still there on the terrace,'' deputy commissioner of police (South Zone) V Satyanarayana told TOI.
 
