JAIPUR: The state government will soon be applying for a hearing with the ministry of health and family welfare after permission for proposed six medical colleges here were disapproved by the   ( ) following an inspection of these premises by the council in December last year.

 According to health minister Kalicharan Saraf the state would remove all shortcomings pointed out by the MCI. “We will work hard and remove all the flaws pointed out by MCI. After that we will invite the MCI team again for inspection,” Saraf told TOI. He said that they will take all possible measures to start the first academic session from 2017-18.
 
 The MCI team that carried out inspections found that not a single faculty or resident doctor has been appointed at these government hospitals. After receiving the report of the inspection, the MCI’s executive committee decided to ask the Centre not to grant permission to establish new medical colleges in Dungarpur, Churu, Pali, Sikar, Bhilwara and Barmer under the IMC Act, 1956, for the 2017-18 academic year.
 
 In fact, some of the private medical colleges in the state which were denied permission to continue with the   course by the MCI have already had a hearing from the ministry after their pleas were under consideration by it. “The facts were presented before the ministry of health in February this year stating that no deficiency exists in our medical institute. A few insignificant ones have already been taken care of. I am sure that MCI will grant approval considering the merit of the case,” said Sandeep Bakshi, chancellor of Jaipur National Institute for Medical Sciences and Research Centre ( ), a private medical college based in Jaipur that was also denied renewal permission.
 
 According to the MCI report of JNIMSRC, there were nil deficiencies in the institutes clinical material and resident doctors. The anomaly that existed in its infrastructure and teaching staff is within the permissible norms of the MCI.
 
 Pacific Institute of Medical Sciences (PIMS) based in Udaipur which has also been denied renewal approval due to long list of deficiencies. Rahul Agrawal, secretary of Shri Tirupati Balaji Society said, “Our educational society has applied for hearing before the ministry of health. We are yet to get the date for the next inspection. I am hoping to hear from MCI soon.” The society runs PIMS.
 
 The new medical colleges will add about 750 MBBS seats in the state with the six new government medical colleges expected to add 100 MBBS seats each.
 
 
