SECUNDERABAD: The grand plan to conserve the centuryold   at Bowenpally in   is now faced with `Army' hurdle.   authorities have stopped the work on laying of a ring sewer around the Lake pending permission from the Army.

 The SCB asked the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWSSB), which is the implementation agency, to put on hold the work “till the Ministry of Defence (MoD) gives permission as the lake comes under the jurisdiction of local military authority (LMA).
 
 “The SCB deposited Rs 45 lakh with HMWSSB to lay the ring sewer abutting the lake.We completed cement concrete work. It is a-200 metre long sewer line. Once the pipeline is laid the lake will be free of pollutants. The contractor has readied 600 mm diameter pipes. But the SCB authoriti es have asked us not take up the work till MoD's clearance is obtained. Accordingly, we have stopped the work a few weeks ago,“ HMWSSB general manager (project division-III) P Ravi Kumar told TOI.
 
 SCB ward member-V (Bowenpally) Pandu Rangam Yadav, who took initiative to protect Ramannakunta Lake from pollution, is running from pillar to post to obtain permission from Telangana Sub Area.
 
 “Over 60 per cent works pertaining to ring sewer were completed and meanwhile, LMA interfered and stopped the work. As an elected representative, I am answerable to the nearly six residential colonies, which are facing severe problem due to lake pollution. Particularly, during rainy season, the lake used to overflow and sewer water enter into low-lying areas. Moreover, locals complain that they are living in unhealthy surroundings. The lake is stinking. It has become a mosquito breeding grounds. The LMA does not understand the problem,“ said Pandu Rang am Yadav.
 
 In May 2016, the Board also passed a resolution in SCB Board meeting seeking reclassification of Ramannakunta Lake from A-1 (under active occupation of Army) to take up ring sewer works to prevent sewage discharge into the Lake. “I have made several requests to LMA to give permission, but all my efforts went in vain. Fed up with the LMA's attitude, I have decided to approach Union Defence Minister  ,“ the ward member said.
 
 The LMA also ignored the request made by the   (TSPCB) to the Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) to construct a `sewerage treatment plant' (STP) to treat the sewage joining the Ramannakunta Lake.
 
 “A proposal was sent recently seeking permission of the local military authority to allow ring sewer works. We are yet to hear from them,“ said SCB chief executive officer SVR Chandra Sekhar.
 
