LUCKNOW: The ISI operative arrested from Faizabad on Wednesday,   had been in touch with Meherban Ali directly through an online messenger before and after the surgical strikes by India. Now settled in Karachi, Meherban was among the group of six who were pulled out of the Pakistan High Commission in November 2016 for being part of an espionage ring.

 The ISI ring was busted with Aftab’s arrest from Faizabad on Wednesday. On the basis of his interrogation, ATS had arrested Altaf in Mumbai the same evening. On Thursday, ATS arrested Altaf’s aide Javed. The two were into hawala trade and were involved in transferring funds to Aftab. 
 
 Through Aftab, the group posted under Pakistan High Commission extracted information about movement of troops under Central Command (particularly from Lucknow and Faizabad cantonment) after the surgical strikes.
 
 Two other hawala operators who circulated money to ISI operatives in the country have been held from Mumbai by anti-terrorist squad of UP police and Maharashtra police in the past 48 hours. According to ATS, some people posted in the high commission continue to extract information and name of the mole who pressed Aftab to keep sharing information about military installations in Uttar Pradesh and Punjab will be forwarded to Union government for action.
 
 Inspector general of   Asim Arun said Aftab had crossed over to Pakistan via Wagah border on a valid   in May 2014 on the pretext of visiting his ailing maternal grandmother. “His visa application was rejected thrice and Meherban, lured him into the   ring by promising to get visa through his connections in the Pakistan High Commission,” said Arun. In return, Aftab was asked to attend a training session at Karachi which was organised by ISI.
 
 Apart from chatting with Meherban, Aftab also came in contact with ISI handler in Pakistan and also continued to receive instructions from an individual posted in Pakistan High Commission in Delhi.
 
 Sources in the ATS said Aftab was constantly sending classified information to his Pakistani handlers when India conducted surgical strike in Pakistan occupied Kashmir. Based at Faizabad, Aftab Ali was keeping close watch on movement of forces in Lucknow and eastern Uttar Pradesh when tension had escalated along the border in Jammu & Kashmir after the surgical strike.
 
 “In early October 2016, some army units were moved to Jammu and Kashmir and Punjab from Central Command. While examining Aftab’s phone we found out he had passed on information about the number of army personnel and trains they had boarded,” said the source.
 
 Though he managed to hoodwink intelligence and security agencies all this while, his number was deemed suspicious in January when ATS arrested some people for running illegal international call centre (through SIM box) in Lucknow, Hardoi and Sitapur. Investigators found that Aftab had made and received several phone calls from Pakistan.
 
