The   was a study of socio-political debate snowballing into violence. Rational thought was drowned out in the din as 10 districts erupted in  , leaving 30 dead and over 200 injured. But a few tunes could be heard above the cacophony , as two artists chose to express themselves through music.

  
  
 The intent was to deliver the   and to drive home the point that all problems cannot be solved by coming to blows.
 
 Music binds all people, regardless of their nationality and religion. Its appeal is universal and it can either stir a mob to violence or soothe it to sanity.
 
 Gajendra Phogat's songs, Mata Ka e-mail, Bhaichara and   were greatly appreciated.They have had over 10 lakhs views on YouTube.
 
 “I was in Rohtak throughout the protests. I had shows lined up in other cities but I couldn't step out of my house. There was so much violence everywhere. I had not seen something like this before. We kept hearing things like, 'their people' are coming to kill us and 'our people' are going to kill them. I was constantly coordinating with the police, the media and my friends from other com munities to ensure dissemination of information,“ he says.
 
 Phogat be lieves his song, which was a plea for peace and harmony, was his attempt to mitigate the hatred which poisoned the atmos phere in Haryana. “A Punjabi artist has given the music of my song. Isn't that brotherhood?“ he asks.
 
 Interestingly, Phogat is a follower of Kabirdas, a mystic poet and saint and his songs are inspired by Kabir's philosophy. “His message of love is the basis of my song, Bhaichara. Besides advocat ing mutual brotherhood, I also want to call out those who are trying to create a rift between communities. Such people should be punished,“ he says.
 
 Phogat also mourns the loss of traditions that cemented interpersonal bonds. “Earlier, people would serve milk and lassi to guests, which was considered a sign of respect. Also, if people from one village went to another where a woman from their village had been married, they would visit her and give her a token of affection in the form of gift or shagan.People do not care now,“ he rues.
 
 Stressing the need to treat religion strictly as a matter of personal faith, Phogat says for him, religion is music. “I believe there should be raagneeti not rajneeti,“ he says.
 
 Phogat wants his songs to reach youngsters, who, he feels, react violently without even understanding the issue clearly.
 
 “They are in a hurry to form an opinion and react. They should take the time to understand what is going on. I provide these youth with infotainment,“ he says.
 
 Another singer, Bittu Sorkhi, whose song on the Jat agitation got around 1,08,972 views on YouTube, says, “I wanted to deliver a message and music is the best way to do that.When words are phrased in music, they touch the heart.“
 
 Disturbed by the volatility and senseless violence, Sorkhi even suggested   during the agitation to soothe frayed nerves.
 
 “Music is like meditation. Even during the agitation, I suggested musical shows and performances to prevent people from going on a rampage. I believe where there is music, there can be no violence.Music is a therapy ,“ he says.
 
