LUDHIANA: A day after a burnt body of a man was found from  , police arrested his wife, her paramour and two others for the murder.
The victim, identified as   , 30, had allegedly asked his  , who had an  , to hand over their sons if she wanted to go with Jevak.
 
 Jugal hailed from Raghunathpur Sivan in Bihar and was presently residing at Mundiyan. Jevak Lal, 32, is a vegetable trader. Other accused in the murder are his two workers Sanoj, 27, and Ashu, 20. Deputy commissioner of police (investigations) Bhupinder Singh Sidhu said after a thorough investigation, it was found that Rupa Devi, mother of two sons, had illicit relations with Jevak Lal. He added that Rupa had run away from her home and taken her sons along to live with Jevak Lal. But Jugal wanted his sons back.
 
 The officer said as the deceased asked his wife to return his sons ­­ nine-year-old Rohit and five-year-old Rahul, she hatched the murder of her husband with the help of her lover. He added that on Tuesday night, Jevak Lal met Jugal near Bullaypur Chabewal vegetable market.
 
 “After making him consume a lot of alcohol, the accused hit him in neck with a sickle. Later, they burnt the body in a vacant plot belonging to one Pawan Malhotra before running away . The wife of the deceased had told them to kill him,“ said station house officer (SHO) Sahnewal Surinderpal.
 
 “Jevak Lal had an affair with Rupa Devi for the past five years and he lived in the neighbourhood.“ He added that the accused persons were arrested from Sahnewal area on Thursday .
 
 The SHO said the accused were booked under Sections 302 (murder) and 201(destroying evidence). He added that they will be produced in court on Friday and police will try to get their remand for doling out more evidence.
 
 Police officials said that on Wednesday morning, some passerby had spotted the body with more than 75% burns and cut in neck.
 
 After Jugal went missing, his colleagues and neighbours started looking for him in various areas and also approached the police for help.When they heard about the body , found in Bullaypur, they went to police station and identified the deceased from his clothes. They later informed police about his wife and children and also her illicit relation with Jevak. Cops later arrested the four accused and on interrogation they “confessed“ to have committed the crime.
 
