MADURAI: At least 15 people sustained injuries when police resorted to a lathicharge to disperse the protesters who continued to protests for the eighth day in Alanganallur. The protest continued on Monday morning even as a section of protesters, particularly villagers from  , called it off. Police, who gave ample time for them to leave the place, resorted to the lathicharge to disperse the crowd. 

 In the melee, about 15 people, including women sustained injuries. A few of them who sustained bleeding injuries were hospitalised. At least three policemen sustained injuries when the protesters resorted to stone pelting. Meanwhile, a section of the villagers who withdrew the protest held discussions to conduct   on February 1. 
 
 When police tried to remove the protesters, women in the agitation held their hands tight and surrounded others in order to protect them. They were removed using women police constables, before evicting others. The incident resulted in heightening the tension prevailing in the village.
 
 A few people were detained by police in connection with Alanganallur clash. However, police were tight-lipped in divulging the number of injured in the incident. They also did not reveal the number of detained and arrested.
 
 Madurai district superintendent of police, S Vijayendra Bidari said the situation in Alanganallur is peaceful and normal. The assembly of protesters was declared unlawful by executive magistrate and enough time was given to disperse. While effecting arrest miscreants resorted to stone pelting on police. Minimum force was used to disperse the gathering.
 
 “No serious injuries to anyone. Police have been deployed at all locations. Don't believe any false rumours or false WhatsApp and Facebook posts about Alanganallur,” Bidari said. 
 
 Meanwhile, after seven days, essential commodities started entering the village which was cut off from Madurai and its surrounding villages due to the blockade. Madurai rural police took control of the town panchayat and a large number of police force was deployed in the rural pockets to avert any problems. All barricades put by the protesters to prevent others from entering the village including police and revenue officials were also removed. 
 
 
