INDORE: Around 117 schools under   have sought exemption from following only   books for Classes 1 to VIII this year. 

 The schools in the city have written to the regional office of Central Board of Secondary Education in Ajmer seeking exemption from the same. CBSE schools had received a letter from the regional office stating the board’s decision of ensuring the use of NCERT books. 
 
 “Vide above circular, CBSE schools were requested for raising on-line indent for requirement of NCERT books (class wise) for the entire school,” read the letter from the board. 
 
 “For submitting the online indent the link was open from February 15 to February 28 but it is seen that most of the schools have not submitted their indent which is viewed seriously by CBSE and ministry of HRD,” the letter further stated. 
 
 However, the CBSE schools in the city still remained adamant about the use of NCERT books not being mandatory. 
 
 “The circular from the board did not mention mandatory use of NCERT books. However, the letter was regarding raising the online indent for NCERT books for which we have written back to the board officials disclosing our problems following the same,” said group chairman  . 
 
 CBSE schools also claimed that they have been using maximum number of NCERT books in schools.
 
 The letter from the CBSE schools to the CBSE officials stated that, this year too for the academic session 2017-18, they are prescribing the NCERT text books /publication or other books based on the National Curriculum framework as prescribed by NCERT. 
 
 As the board had questioned the schools on not raising online indent for NCERT books, the schools in their letter have stated issues owing to which it is getting difficult to follow the orders for raising an online indent. 
 
 “The Govt. of MP does not allow the schools to sell the books from the school. The schools can only prescribe the books. Parents are free to purchase the books from the open market as per their choice,” read the letter from the CBSE schools in the city.
 
 “Since the schools do not have the license to sell the books etc., thus we can’t order the books of NCERT to be purchased directly online through the website. Moreover we have requested the book vendors to order the books of NCERT /publications books for the convenience of parents,” further read the letter.
 
