By   

 There’s an apocryphal saying we advertising folk like to throw around: “Don’t tell my mother I work in advertising. She thinks I play piano in a whorehouse.”
 
 For decades, we’ve taken such disparagement on the chin, with a smile, a wink and (dare I say) a little pride. Because, hey, we work in advertising! We may not make the most money, but we have the licence to dress the way we want, come to work at our leisure, use language that would make a sailor blush, and even (at times) drink in the middle of the afternoon. Take that, investment bankers!
 
 For too long, we’ve rolled with the punches, safely ensconced in the belief that any and all criticism leveled at our profession is at some point justified. But here’s a wild idea: What if it’s not? What if advertising is just as honorable, rewarding and socially beneficial a profession as any other?
 
 Before I go forward, I’d like to go way back. It is the summer of 1985 and a seven-year-old boy is discovering the joys of Indrajal comics, specifically Mandrake the Magician. Mandrake is “gesturing hypnotically”, and people around him are seeing exactly what he wants them to see, behaving in exactly the manner he wants them to behave. The seven-year-old boy is intoxicated by the idea of such power and firmly resolves to become a magician when he grows up.
 
 But as he grows up, the boy realises two things. One, his talent for magic is middling at best, and two, while magic still exists in the world today, it goes by the name of advertising.
 
 I’d like to argue that advertising goes beyond clichés that have come to define our profession. It is the ‘white magic’ of the modern era. Just like the shamans of old, it uses words, pictures and songs to entrance people, but for good. It transforms a simple object with a basic functional ability (and very often, not even that) into something that has a deeper meaning, which resonates across cultures and generations. Advertising transforms the mundane into the mythical, the insignificant into the iconic. And what is that, if not magical?
 
 For every piece of advertising that is offensive, contrived or just plain annoying, there is advertising that is beautiful, evocative and hypnotic. Advertising creates popular culture. Still, all of us (myself included) have often bemoaned the ‘death’ of advertising. We lament the lack of talent across the board and celebrate the ‘golden age of advertising’, which was typified by long-copy print ads and erudite, articulate ‘ad men’. What we fail to realise is that the world has changed and that advertising has probably never been as difficult and challenging as it is today.
 
 Advertising is storytelling on speed. An entire narrative collapsed into a 30- or 60-second window of opportunity. Before mobile phones, before YouTube, before digital television, people had time for you. Advertising campaigns often became iconic by sheer virtue of the time they were run for. We lived with campaigns for years, rather than weeks. But in today’s world of constant information overload, advertising has become an irritant, an impediment standing in the way of the viewer/reader and the Main Event. Building brands and getting attention has never required more ingenuity, more insight and more empathy than it does today.
 
 So let’s sell our brands, but let’s not sell ourselves short. Because we are too deeply embedded in our profession to be able to stand back and view it for what it really is: modern-day magic. That seven-year-old boy didn’t grow up to be a magician. But he did grow up to join advertising. And his Amma is proud of the fact that he did.
 
 (Author is Executive Planning Director, FCB Ulka)
 
 
