With film distributors wary of backing their movies, independent filmmakers in Chennai have be gun thinking out of the box (office) to not just get their work out to audiences but make some money as well.Online streaming, foreign theatre releases, cafes or offices, independent filmmakers are panning unconventional avenues to reach viewers, and generate revenue.

 Because, as filmmaker Hari Vishwanath puts it, making a movie is “no big deal“, getting it to an audience is. And he should know.His 2015 Tamil film `Radiopetti', which won awards and competitions at several international film festivals including Busan, found its way to   this month, and will be released in South Korean theatres soon, but it has not managed to hit screens in its home ground.“And probably never will,“ says Vishwanath, who was told his film -about a man and his radio set -was “too clean“ to do well in  .
 
 But Vishwanath says he is not perturbed because his ratings are climbing on Netflix, his earnings too are on the rise, and he has the Korean deal to be excited about.“I've been told mine is the first Tamil movie to see a theatrical release in Korea without one in India. It is also the first Tamil film to be released on Netflix despite not being released in a theatre,“ says Vishwanath.
 
 Other Chennai-based indie filmmakers such as   (who made the crowd-funded `Nila' in 2016) and  , whose 2016 drama `Revelations', too are in the process of signing deals with international online distributors, finding international acclaim does not necessarily translate to a theatre premiere. “We make our money and we get a worldwide audience,“ says Selvaraj.
 
 “Increasingly filmmakers are beginning to realise that online the reach is wider. Why else would you find films like `Their' and `Kabali' on Amazon Prime Video or `OK Kanmani' on Netflix,“ says Jayapal.
 
 Earlier, there were three outcomes for a filmmaker -make money, lose money or earn zero revenue. Now with so many options, the third option virtually does not exist. “Almost everyone manages to find some way to make money,“ says Sanjay Seksaria, CEO of content aggregation firm Media Movers, which among other things sources films for online distribution. Filmmakers say companies like Netflix pick up independent movies for amounts that can vary from $10,000 to even 200,000 based on interest, reviews and ratings of the film.
 
 According to T A Arulpa thy, president of  , while a theatrical release is the first option as it means more revenue, if the movie is not “marketable“ enough, then online is a viable option.
 
 `Offline' too filmmakers, who find theatre doors closed, are trying various strategies to get their movies to an audience. Independent filmmaker Sandeep Mohan for instance, took his film `Hola Venky' (2015) literally to the doorstep of his viewers. He told the media it was because he did not want to take his films to theatres as he did not want to worry about the Censor Board and that he wanted to reach his audience directly .
 
 Terming it the `Great Indian Travelling Cinema', Mohan journeyed across the country, from cafés to library and offices to hotels, with a projector, playing his film for anyone willing to watch. All he wanted was an honest opinion, as for payment that was left to the viewers. He managed more than 70 screenings worldwide, and is now travelling with his film `Shreelancer' for his `Pay as you wish, if you wish' shows.
 
