JAIPUR: A day after Kota witnessed high   at Mahaveer Nagar police station between  , five policemen including one deputy superintendent of police (DSP),   and three constables were sent to lines.

 On the other hand a total of five FIRs were registered at the police station including three by BJP MLA   and 2 FIRs by the police. In the FIRs lodged by the police Chandrakanta Meghwal's husband Narendra along with six other BJP workers have been named as accused.
 The action on police came as a shock for many in Kota as on Monday Narendra Meghwal from Ramganj Mandi had allegedly first slapped Sreeram Badesara, in-charge of Mahaveer Nagar police station publicly during a verbal spat.
 
 On Monday while BJP workers were protesting against traffic penalty charged by the police they entered into a violent scuffle with the cops. Later when Narendra Meghwal allagedly first slapped in-charge of the police station, the cops used batons in which many BJP workers were injured. Demanding action against police officers, senior BJP leaders including Om Birla , Kota MP, along with others staged a protest at Mahaveer Nagar police station till wee hours on Tuesday.
 
 When contacted, senior police officers in Kota were not been able to justify the action against their fellow men. When asked why Sreeram, the circle inspector of Mahaveer Nagar police station was sent to lines despite the fact that he was slapped, Vishal Bansal, inspector general of police, Kota range, talking to TOI, said, "He had requested for a change of police station. "
 
 Meanwhile, those named in the five FIRs include Chandrakanta Meghwal, her husband and other party workers, five police personnel, including deputy superintendent of police (DSP) and circle in charge (CI) and three constables, under relevant sections of IPC and SC/ST Act at Mahaveer nagar police station. "Police have registered a case of voluntarily causing hurt, criminal assault and deterring a public servant from performing his duties. The MLA and her husband have charged policemen of criminal assault and registered a case under appropriate sections of SC/ST Act against them," said Sawai Singh Godara, superintendent of police, Kota.
 
 On Tuesday members of Jat community staged protest against action taken on police officers. "It was the policeman who was assaulted by the MLA's husband then how can he be sent to lines. We will not tolerate it," said one of the protestera from Kota.
 
 During confrontation five police personnel and about a a dozen BJP workers, including MLA, had sustained injuries. No arrests have been made so far and the situation is peaceful at present.
 
 Meanwhile, supporters of BJP MLA Chandrakanta have called for a bandh on February, 23.
 
