BENGALURU: It’s been two weeks since   leader  , who was convicted in a disproportionate assets case, was imprisoned at   on the outskirts of the city, and a steady stream of visitors has been calling on her.

 Ordinary prisoners have been affected by Sasikala’s presence. Everytime VIPs stop by to visit Sasikala, security around the jail is increased and other inmates are not allowed visitors.
 
 About 150 people, including family members, friends and advocates, come to the jail every day to meet the inmates. “Since Sasikala arrived, the number of visitors for other prisoners has come down to about 50. A special room has been arranged for Sasikala to meet her visitors. But we do not have adequate police personnel to guard the regular visitor rooms as well,” sources in the prison said.
 
 Visitors have to undergo a security check and register their details before getting time with a prisoner. “Each visitor gets 30 minutes with an inmate,” a sources said.
 
 Due to Sasikala’s presence, the number of police available for checks is fewer. “We need at least 10 police officers to watch the crowd of visitors. Sasikala’s presence has brought the number down to two or three,” the source said.
 
 “Last week, 50 to 60 of Sasikala’s family members had come to meet her. Getting them all in one room was a big problem. Sasikala’s advocates visit her every day. Each time, we have to provide security to them,” the source added.
 
 On Tuesday, four AIADMK ministers from Tamil Nadu, K A Sengottaiyan, Sellur K Raju, R Kamaraj and  , met Sasikala.
 
 Chief superintendent of the prison   denied there were any problems being faced by prisoners due to Sasikala’s presence. “Sasikala’s visitors are given separate time and place. There is no question of others getting affected,” he said.
 
 Asked about the rules and regulations regarding visitors, Krishna Kumar said inmates are allowed visitors twice a week. “But it doesn’t apply when advocates drop in. Sasikala’s is a special case,” he said.
 
