The cold wave this month gave schoolkids in Noida plenty of reasons to cheer. The district magistrate ordered all schools to suspend classes till Standard 8 from January 7 to 10, and on January 12, announced that all schools will be closed for the week. This meant that most students in Noida had over a week-long extended winter vacation. The closure of schools, coinciding with fresh   in the hills, gave Noidawallahs the perfect opportunity to head to the hills for a snowy getaway. However, it wasn’t a rosy vacation for many, as they soon realised that most hill stations in north India are filled with tourists eager to see the snow, and so they had to make do with lesser-known holiday spots.

 
 
 Ravi Arora, who travelled to Himachal with his family earlier this week, says, "Every year, the administration closes schools for a few days when it gets really cold. Naturally, that is the time when it snows in the hills. So jab bachhon ke school band ho, toh it doesn’t make sense to just sit at home. We always go to either Manali or Shimla during this time."
 
 Aarti Jain, a Sector 26 resident, says, "With schools closed for almost a week, we decided to try our luck and head to Uttarakhand. Socha jiss hill station mein jagah mil jaaye, we would stay there for a few days. Fortunately, we had some luck in New Tehri. It would be criminal to miss the snowfall."
 
 
 
 Places like Mussoorie and Shimla are the top choices for Noida families when it comes to a quick getaway because of their relative proximity to the NCR. Jitendra Sharma, who went to Shimla for the break, tells us, "Shimla is just so picturesque during a snowfall. I had made reservations there when schools were first closed, and fortunately, the administration ordered them shut again a few days later."
 
 Richa Anand, a housewife who went to Mussoorie with her family, adds, "Going to Mussoorie is convenient because it is the closest hill station to the NCR, barely a seven-eight hour drive. Although it’s crowded this time of the year, it’s still a great place for a three-four day vacation."
 
 For those looking for less crowded destinations, Landsedowne was the top choice. RK Arora, who took his family to Lansdowne for three days, says, "I already knew that Shimla and Mussoorie would be too crowded. And without advance booking, it would be impossible to stay there. So I played it safe and went to Lansdowne instead. But even that was so crowded, we had to stay at a hotel outside the main city."
 
 
 
 Many Noidawallahs who wanted to see the snow didn’t get lucky because of the tourist rush. They had to make do with lesser-known hill stations. Aakarsh Jindal, a Greater Noida resident, says, "We were just about to reach Mussoorie when the cops stopped us. They told us that only those with advance bookings were allowed as the place was already full. Reasoning with them didn’t work, so we took a detour and headed to Chamba.”
 
 A few travellers changed their travel plans at the last minute after hearing about the tourist rush. "When we learnt that they were turning people back from Mussoorie and Nainital, we decided to go to Rishikesh instead. We spent a few days in Rishikesh and Haridwar. It wasn’t exactly the snowy vacation we were looking for, but something is better than nothing," says Shrey, a Sector 62 resident.
 
