CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday issued a notice to the Centre and the   on a plea challenging the constitutional validity of the Sikh Gurdwara Amendment Act 2016, enacted by the Parliament, debarring   from voting rights in Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) elections.

 A division bench headed by Justice   issued the notice after taking cognizance of a petition filed by Sehajdhari Sikh Party through its president Paramjeet Singh Ranu.
 
 The petitioner alleged that neither proper facts nor any figures were placed before the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) before making an amendment in the Act. It was further alleged that the amendment had been done by the Union government just to appease the   (SAD), which was a partner in the NDA government.
 
 The petitioner also argued more than 70 lakh Sehajdhari Sikhs were being deprived of their voting rights in the SGPC elections. The petitioner also submitted that similar step was also taken by the Centre earlier by amending the Act through a notification, issued on October 8, 2003, which was quashed by a full bench of the high court on December 12, 2011.
 
 It was further submitted that the HC judgment was challenged before the   by the SGPC and was disposed of in view of an amendment.
 
 According to the petitioner, while disposing of the petition, the apex court, however, had given the Sehajdharis to challenge the constitutional validity of this amendment.
 
 The petitioner has sought directions for quashing of the amendment in the Act, thereby restoring the voting rights of Sehajdhari Sikhs. It also sought update of the voter list of SGPC electorate by including Sehajdhari Sikhs and to hold fresh polls to the gurdwara body, which was not constituted in accordance with law as its term had expired on December 17, 2016.
 
 The matter has been fixed for August 10 for further hearing. The Union government had amended the 1925 Act in the Parliament and notified the new law on May 5, 2016, denying Sehajdharis the right to vote.
 
