He is an adviser and legal counsel to over 40 labour unions in and around the city, and also the patron-in-chief of two others. However,  , firmly believes in conciliation and dialogues, and not strikes, to resolve disputes between labourers and management. He has nearly 15 years experience of dealing with labour laws.   says contrary to common perception, labourers here are very much cooperative and willing to work. He, however, adds that labourers are still exploited, particularly in private companies. Deshpande called on the public to view labourers like any other human beings who also have same needs and expectations. Currently, he runs two unions of popular trade union leader Datta Samant who was murdered in 1997. 

 In a tête-à-tête with TOI, he explains about the problems and expectations of labour class and offers a solution to minimize labour-management conflict.
 
 Excerpts...
 
 Q. Which are the laws governing labours?
 
 A. There are many, but the two major ones are Industrial Disputes (ID) Act, 1947, which is central government enactment, Maharashtra Industrial Relations act, 1942, and   and Prevention of Unfair labour Practices Act, 1972. There is also Maharashtra Building and Other Construction Workers (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Service) Rules, 2007.
 
 Q. Explain the actual problems faced by the labour class.
 
 A. Problems range from poverty to exploitation. Sadly, the mentality towards them has hardly changed since the British era. They’re still considered as slaves who will work from 12-16 hours and end their day with country-made liquor. We need to understand that they also have families and expectations which can’t be fulfilled in meagre salaries of just Rs5,000-Rs 10,000. They also want their kids to study in good schools, go out with families for a picnic, use gadgets like TV, mobile phones, and refrigerator, among others. Unfortunately, there is a huge disparity in wages paid to those in government-run organizations and in private sector. The former is getting at least Rs20,000 per month but latter has to be content with half of it.
 
 Q. Is this the only reason that labourers go on strike?
 
 A. There are numerous reasons behind it. The labour class, particularly those in the private sector, is constantly under strain for looking after his family in meagre salaries and also the official workload. They work in extremely demanding conditions, from underground mines to machines, where high risks are involved. Many a time, they lose their limbs and other body parts, in case of slightest or error or ignorance towards safety. Many have also lost lives. Due to heavy workload, their health also deteriorates quickly. It’s human nature to get angry in such tough conditions. In such case, even the slightest of provocation can lead to clashes after which they go on strike.
 
 Q. Labourers in Vidarbha are often accused of being lazy.
 
 A. Frankly, no person, be it a labourer or manager, would want to close down the company, which is their bread and butter. They only go on strike or stop production in extreme conditions, when the management is not cooperating with them. Nowadays, even they are educated and can judge right or wrong. The situation has completely changed from   strike in the late 1990s. Now, the atmosphere is most conducive here in Vidarbha for investment, as they will get cheap but quality labour in comparison to developed industrial belts like Mumbai and Pune.
 
 Q. You said you have a solution to mitigate their grievances.
 
 A. They understand that it is difficult for new or private companies to provide facilities like those offered by government organizations like WCL, NEERI, NTPC or even the police. It includes housing, schooling for children, playgrounds, hospital, recreational activity centres among others. Some companies like Indo Rama Synthetics and Uttam Steel provide these facilities, but not all can afford. I have suggestions to private firms to join hands and collectively fund these facilities. Even the government should it make it mandatory to setup all facilities like schools, hospitals and marriage halls while setting up MIDC. If all companies in MIDC come together and offer all these facilities, they could retain the labour who also work without thinking about their children’s studies, housing and other problems. Even the government could join them in extending a helping hand by granting extra FSI to such companies. 
 
 Q. What are the basic expectations of a labourer?
 
 A. Like any other employees, they also expect proper deduction of provident fund, retirement benefits, group and medical insurance, and job assurance. The human resources (HR) personnel have a major role to play in the industrial disputes. However, the courts dealing with labour cases are overburdened and extremely slow in disposal of cases, which leads to their suffering. Their demand is to increase number of such courts and there should be special bench in high court dealing with their cases, as JMFC courts lack expertise to deal with labour issues.
 
 Q. Your views on SEZ?
 
 A. It’s actually a Chinese concept, but we neither support nor fully opposed to it. We understand that companies coming under SEZ would offer plenty of jobs. We just want them to extend all benefits to the labour class and not to exploit them. Only a happy labour class could bring about industrial growth in this region.
 
