BADOPAL (HANUMANGARH): The government will have to look into the problem of Badopal farmers whose land has been affected by waterlogging (Sem). The population of the village today is 11,000. The land holding farmers are living in abject poverty with most having turned to working as daily wage labourers. 

 80-year-old Deva Ram once a sarpanch and owner of 55 bigah land under Sem, today works as a daily wager earning Rs 100-150 per day.
 
 It was in 1998 that Sem or waterlogging started in the village and by 1980 nearly 40,000 Ha became waterlogged. Twenty-five villages of seven gram panchayats in Hanumangarh are affected by excessive water due to the floods from   in 1974 and the continuous seepage from  . This has not only raised the water table but also brought to surface sodium and other infertile elements. In the year 1975-85 the rise in ground water table was 4-5 ft and standing water up to 1 to 5 ft. 
 
 However, it was in 1992 that the government paid compensation and re-located 90% of the farmers. Today out of 705 farmers, only 45-48 are left in Badopal with no agriculture land and no means of livelihood. Over the years several schemes to drain water have been experimented with and all failed.
 
 In 2008, a pumping station was installed at Badopal in Pilibanga by legislator Rampratap Kesriya to rid the area of Sem at the cost of Rs 964 lakh. The villagers were hopeful that the area would dry up after pumping out water and they would be able to get their farming land back. But even in 2017 the area is as it was over three decades back, submerged in water. The pump is rotting and rusting, surrounded with several Common Coots frolicking in water. But now the water resources department is coming up with schemes worth nearly Rs 250 crore.
 
 “As the stagnant water in Badopal area has already become brackish/saline owing to high evaporation in dryland environment, any efforts for draining of this poor quality water to other locations/storage reservoir/pond will merely shift problem/ difficult ground reality to another site and will at best be a short-term measure and thus resulting in wasting huge amount of financial resources,” recommended Dr Sudesh Kumar Wadhawan, former director general, Geological Survey of India.
 
 Remediation on such issues requires a holistic approach after due diligence and considering geoscientific parameters for long-term sustainable practices. Central Arid Zone Research Institute, CAZRI and Central Ground Water Board CGWB, need to be consulted for geoscientific inputs and dryland agriculture, soil conditions.
 
 Developing fisheries and ecotourism for watching presently emerging migratory Birds Sanctuary linked with the famous Kalibangan, Pilibangan and the Harappan equivalent archaeological/ cultural heritage sites near these tracts are viable alternatives that will boost conservation and local community involvement and generate new sources of employment. It will also encourage development of new international tourist routes in this neglected part of northern   which holds immense potential and opportunities that are yet to be tapped, said Wadhawan.
 
 
