Gurgaon: The medical fraternity welcomed the Haryana FDA’s move to ban use of   in food and drinks out of health concerns, but owners of eateries complained everyone was being made to pay for one person’s mistake.

 “This technique enhances cooking. If one person made a mistake, why should it be banned for others too? If someone is burnt by cooking gas, will they ban cooking gas too? Accidents happen,” said Sandeep Verma, owner of Sandys Cocktails & Kitchen in Sector 29. Verma is planning to file a PIL in this regard.
 
 Prankster, a restaurant-cum-bar, also in Sector 29, uses liquid nitrogen for its rose kheer and dahi bhalla. They will now have to reinvent the dishes. “Safety is certainly a primary concern but our creativity with food will be affected by this. Experiments have to happen in order to serve these dishes in a better way because as entrepreneurs we cannot let it die. But this was one version of the kheer we had experimented with and took it to a new level,” said Inderjit Singh, owner of Prankster. 
 
 Zorawar Kalra, owner of Farzi Café in Cyber Hub, stressed the need for training of bartenders. “We will follow the government’s decision. However, liquid nitrogen can be compared to fire. We all know fire is dangerous too, but people have been trained to handle fire, and create delicious meals over it. Similarly, there should be a proper training to handle liquid nitrogen,” he said. 
 
 At the other end of the table were doctors, who said it was not worth the risk. “Liquid nitrogen damages tissues in two ways. If consumed directly, it causes frostbite and freezing of internal structures. Indirectly, it causes dehydration of cells, microvascular coagulation, large vessel coagulation and reperfusion injury,” said Subrat Raul, senior consultant, surgical gastroenterology, at Paras hospital.
 
 “When consumed in lesser quantities, it can cause superficial necrosis and ulcers of mouth cavity and stomach. If consumed in higher quantities it may cause perforation of the oesophagus and the stomach. So a ban is certainly a good move in the short run. But in the long run, the solution is to create awareness,” Raul added.
 
 Dr Mriganka Sekhar Sharma, consultant (bariatric and minimal invasive surgery) at Columbia Asia Hospital led the surgery on the 30-year-old Delhi businessman, whose cocktail accident in April led to the ban. He told TOI, “Any closed body cavity, when exposed to this substance, may be harmed if proper safety measures are not adopted. Had this gentleman been told how to consume such a drink, this eventuality may have been avoided. However, in the absence of trained personnel serving such drinks, it is better to ban them and avoid such medical catastrophe.”
 
 
