Chennai: UTI, the original pioneer of mutual funds (MFs) in the country, may have lost its leadership position to private sector peers. But the fund house’s top executives are now the best paid in the MF industry.

 Leo Puri, managing director (MD) and CEO of UTI MF, was the highest paid executive in the MF industry in 2016-17. He took home Rs 7.07 crore as annual salary (fixed and variable pay) during the year, a 23% increase compared to the previous fiscal, pipping Milind Barve, the MD and CEO at HDFC MF, the highest paid executive in 2015-16.
 
 The median remuneration for UTI— which stood at Rs 19.6 lakh during the year, more than twice the average pay of employees at the country’s top-4 fund houses by assets under management (AUM) — is high as the average tenure of our employees is more than 20 years. Incidentally, UTI is only the sixth largest fund house by AUM and lost its place in the top-5 league to SBI MF in April last year. “Since we do not have a long-term incentive plan, the salary (cash) component is high,” Kamlesh Dangi, Group president & head HR , UTI MF.
 
 While the median remuneration of employees at ICICI Prudential MF, the largest fund house by AUM, was Rs 5.84 lakh, employees at HDFC MF, the second largest fund manager got Rs 8.77 lakh as average pay. 
 
 Employees at Reliance MF and Birla Sun Life MF, the third and fourth largest fund houses respectively, got an average pay of around Rs 8.49 lakh and Rs 7 lakh respectively.
 
 More than a dozen executives at UTI were paid in excess of Rs 1 crore in 2016-17. 
 
 Sundeep Sikka, the executive director and CEO of Reliance MF, got the highest pay rise among executives of top-6 fund houses in the country. 
 
 Sikka earned Rs 5.01 crore as annual salary (fixed and variable pay) during 2016-17, a 43.1% jump on a year-on-year (y-o-y) basis. In addition, he also got a one-time payment of Rs 3.41 crore for the year.
 
 Despite the stellar show by equity mutual funds (MFs), which touched record highs soaring past the Rs 5 lakh crore AUM mark in 2016-17, the top-2 equity fund managers saw negligible hike in their annual pay. While Sankaran Naren, the executive director (ED) of ICICI Prudential MF, who also heads the fund house’s equities team, saw no change in remuneration during the year, the annual pay of Prashant Jain, ED of HDFC MF, who dons a similar role, inched up by 3.9%.
 
 The annual salary of Jain, however, remained the highest in the industry among fund managers. Incidentally, HDFC MF’s average AUM in the equity category increased 18.4% y-o-y to Rs 80,592.2 crore while ICICI Prudential’s average AUM surged 33% y-o-y to Rs 77,223.3 crore for 2016-17.
 
 MFs were not disclosing the remuneration paid to its star fund managers earlier. They were disclosing compensation paid to key managerial personnel (KMP), which included the MD. 
 
 Interestingly, KMP included the MD and CEO, CFO (chief financial officer) and the company secretary and not the chief investment officers (CIOs) who run the fund management business.
 
 Markets regulator SEBI however directed fund houses to disclose information on remuneration of CEO, CIO and COO or their equivalent within one month from the end of the respective financial year effective from 2015-16.
 
 
 
