

 
 
 
 
 
 The violence didn’t begin today. We see that violence increases whenever the communist party comes to power. Whenever   or some other party comes to power, violence comes down. It’s clear the communist government gives patronage to violence. The Left recently came to power. (Several) BJP and RSS workers were killed in the CM’s district. Who is responsible? I have a question for Yechury. If your government is unable to handle law and order, it must quit.
 
 
 
 You must have heard my speech. I didn’t raise any political issues there. I only spoke about Leftist violence inspired by ideology. We selected Kannur because it’s essential that the people of Kannur become more courageous. The CM is from this area. Terror has gripped this region. One after the other, people are being killed. It’s necessary to boost the morale of people of Kannur. That’s why we have planned a march from Kannur to Trivandrum. This yatra will take place in Delhi as well... We will organise this march in every state capital. We are spreading awareness. We want the people to realise that wherever the Left is in power, political violence has increased.
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 If someone calls RSS and BJP anti-national, the people alone will make a decision on their opinion.
 
 
 
 
 Yechury must answer for the murders of our workers. Isn’t it his party’s government in Kerala? Isn’t it his government responsible for the law and order situation? 
 
 
 
 He’s the CM. Do you think he would’ve spared us if we were guilty? He shouldn’t pin the blame of Left’s internal rivalries on us.
 
 
 
 
 Why are those who protest against violence silent when BJP workers are killed? In both Kerala and Karnataka (where Lankesh was killed), it’s not our party in power. (rationalist MM) Kalburgi was killed (also in Karnataka). Who was caught? Why hasn’t anyone been caught? Who is shielding the killers? The onus is on Congress to catch the culprits. Violence must be protested against. But when BJP workers are killed, and it is the Leftists who are spreading violence, why is there silence then? There must be candle light vigils for these victims too.
 
