PUNE: As many as 20 people died of   in the city in 2016 after they were  .

 The number of   casualties rose last year compared to 2015, when there were 16 deaths.
 
 However, barring a lone local resident, the other 19 patients who succumbed to rabies at civic-run Naidu Infectious Diseases Hospital were from areas adjoining Pune. They were referred to Naidu hospital for treatment after their condition worsened.
 
 “Among the 20 people who died of rabies, 11were men and nine were women. Most were from rural parts of Pune, Satara, Sangli, Kolhapur and other adjoining areas,“ said S T Pardeshi, chief of the health department at Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC).
 
 The city recorded a total of 15,724 dog bite cases in Pune city between January and November last year.
 
 Officials said the prominent reason for rabies casualties, especially among the rural populace, was lack of awareness about the appropriate ways of treatment.
 
 People in rural areas tend to use traditional methods to treat dog-bite cases before reporting to a hospital. In rural Maharashtra, for instance, a paste of lime, turmeric and bitter gourd leaves is applied to the wound from a dog bite.
 
 “People also cover the wound by tying a cloth around it, which is wrong. The wound needs to be kept open as covering it can facilitate the spread of infection,“ a state health official said.
 
 The `National Guidelines on Rabies Prophylaxis,' issued recently by the Union health ministry , has stressed on the use of rabies immunoglobulins (RIG) not only in category III dog bite cases (that currently prevails) but also in category II dog bite cases if the patient has a weak or impaired immune system arising out of conditions such as HIVAIDS, pregnancy or even cancer, where the patient is undergoing chemotherapy or radiation therapy . Other conditions such as genetic disorders can also lead to poor immunity .
 
 “Post exposure prophylaxis (PEP) against rabies takes preference over any other consideration as it is a life-saving treatment. Moreover,   does not have any adverse effect on pregnant woman, course of pregnancy , foetus or lactating mothers. Hence, complete PEP should be given depending on the category of the exposure,“ the guidelines state.
 
 The guidelines have also clearly underlined that antirabies treatment should not be denied to patients who report late for treatment.
 
 “Bite by all warm-blooded animals necessitates post-exposure prophylaxis. As rabies is practically 100% fatal, bites by dogs and cats in particular must be considered as a “medical emergency“ and the “life-saving“ PEP must be provided immediately ,“ the guidelines state.
 
