JAIPUR: Rajasthan has performed second worst in girls 'out of school' in the age group of 11-14 years in the   (ASER) tabled recently. The report says that 9.7% girls in the age group of 11-14 were out of school in the academic session 2016-17. 

 This figure is almost half to the national average of 5.2%. Leading the pack is Uttar Pradesh which recorded 9.9% girls as out of school. It is important to note that state may have record second worst in the country but has significant improved its rate dropout rate from 12.1% in 2014 to 9.7% in 2016.
 
 Experts opined that poor performance of the state has more to do with prevalent societal norms rather than defects in the education system. “Girls of this age group 11-14 in rural areas are considered as marriageable age. It is trend that girls drop out after upper primary due to several reasons: family pressure, marriage, no separate school at secondary and senior secondary level, distance of school etc,” said KB Kothari, managing trustee of Partham NGO Rajasthan Chapter. 
 
 The figures are very alarming for the desert state whose literacy level for women is far below the national average. The census report states that literacy level of women was 52.1% in Rajasthan and the national average was 65.46%. Government officials claim that this year the figure will go below the national average as different government departments are working in tandem to curb child marriages. “Even the rise in institutional deliveries and check on   the   of several districts has already shown improvements which will ultimately improve the sex ratio of the state,” said a government official
 
 While the education department is hoping that with toilets in all government schools the drop rate will decline. State has taken slew of efforts to ensure that enrolment of girls’ remains the same at all levels in school. The most recent was financial incentive for girl child enrolling in government schools. The scheme says that every girl joining Class I will receive Rs 4,000, those enrolling in Class VI will get Rs 5,000. Girl students who clear classes X and XII will receive Rs 11,000 and Rs 25,000, respectively. In a nutshell, a girl who enrols in Class I at a government school in 2016-17 will receive a total cash benefit of Rs 51,000 by the time she clears Class X.
 
 
