Kavita Kaushik’s sudden plan to tie the knot may have come as a surprise to some, but the bride-to-be is certain that this is the best decision she has made in her life. She will wed   Biswas on January 27; the haldi and mehendi will take place over the next two days. In an exclusive interview, the actress talks about her father’s battle with cancer, how Ronnit helped her cope with life’s vagaries and her decision to marry in the  . Excerpts... 

 
 
 Contrary to my image of an extrovert, I have a small but strong inner circle. I’ve been blessed with the best parents and a few amazing friends, who’ve kept a wild child like me grounded. A few have put a spy after me, too, I’m sure (laughs). So actually the people closest to me knew what was was happening in my life.
 
 
 
 Ron is one of my closest buddies. In fact, he is a reflection of me, not the outer image that people know of me, but the real person that I am, my habits, my dreams, the drive, the love for a simple life and more. My father was a great source of strength for me. With him around, I could goof up and not regret. I could fight the world and not be scared; he gave me the luxury to be reckless. 
 
 
 
 My dad was all the things movies like 'Dabangg' and 'Singham' are made of, only more real. I’ve seen him fight for the country and serve the nation as a hero. The iconic character Chautala in my show ' ' was a complete rip off of my dad’s real personality. He was the strongest man I knew emotionally and physically. I’d seen him take on 10 goons and emerge a winner. You know, it’s not the years or age that matures you, but when your strong father struggles to open his water bottle and looks at you meekly to open it for him, you realise that life spares no one. The three years my father fought cancer, my mom and I fought it too, not just on the outside with his medicines and hospitals, but we felt like it was attacking us from the inside, too. My mother started to age by the day and I started losing interest in everything. The workaholic and the professional in me started to feel burnt out. I was receiving awards for best actor (comedy) for 'F.I.R.', but I would come back home sad holding on to the trophies, feeling like I’m falling deep into a dark, endless pit. I was insecure and petrified of losing my dad. Each time the phone rang, I would get startled; I would dread receiving any news from home. This made me an angry and unhappy person. I was exhausted fighting it alone and that even caused me to choose wrong relationships and wrong work projects, damaging my self-confidence and individuality. Ironically, the actor making the nation laugh was hurting miserably inside as she delivered punches on the camera. I met Ron around that time. His energy was that of a companion. Ours was a platonic but close equation, which I think is the real definition of true friendship. His simplicity, his large-heartedness and compassion drew me towards him. Ron completed me. He stood next to me while I saw my father’s pyre burn and that’s where we both locked our hands to never let go. In my earlier relationships, I knew it was perhaps wrong and I was always searching for something else. But now I know that I don’t want to grow old with any other man. I’ve never been more sure.
 
 
 
 Ron and I share our love for Shiva, the Lord of destruction and the creator of life. I’ve experienced the destruction when everything was going wrong and collapsing around me and Ron gave me a new hope and 
 new life. He saw the struggling woman behind the angry, manly Chautala and kept me alive and happy after my dad. For me, he is no less than Shiva in my life because he is my saviour. The place where we are getting married is the place where Shiva and Parvati got married, if legends are to be believed. Also, I love the mountains, have trekked a lot and I’m happiest when I’m doing that, so there is no other place for me more suitable than the Himalayas.
 
 
 
 
 What’s that? I’m marrying my best friend and I want to make it special for him. And for my mother too. 
 
 
 Apart from being hardworking guy, who is busy all week with his event management firm, Ron is a fantastic singer, has played cricket for Delhi, is a foodie and a traveller. He is respectful towards people, loves kids and plays with every dog that crosses his path. He’s simple and real. He had never watched an entire episode of 'F.I.R.' but he knew who I was. I joke with him that when we are old and living somewhere in the hills, he can watch all 1,500 episodes then. He has immense respect for who I am and what I have achieved alone in this city.
 
 
 Like I said, although I was working in the last three years, I wasn’t at my productive and happy best. But the dark cloud has passed and with this beautiful new energy in my life, I am raring to do something bigger and better workwise. I just wrapped up a Punjabi film, in which I play the lead and I can’t wait to do more. The break is actually over now. You have had your share of relationships, the last being with actor Nawab Khan. Are you in touch with your exes? Like everyone, I too have had some interesting exes and I think it will be nice to be friends with them, but I don’t think they like me too much for that!
 
 
  
 
