CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and   high court has asked the department of town and country planning, Haryana, to apprise the court about “effective steps” taken by it to recover external development charges (EDC) amounting to Rs 14,241 crore from various builders/realtors/developers in the state. 

 Division bench headed by Justice Rajesh Bindal passed these orders after director (town and country planning) T L Satyaprakash informed the court that Rs 14,241 crore was outstanding against 772 licenses granted to various developers and no litigation was pending regarding the said amount.
 
 As per departmental figures, several realtors and developers or colonizers in Haryana owe Rs 18,563 crore to the state exchequer in the form of EDC. While Rs 14,241 crore outstanding against 772 licenses is not under any litigation, a sum of Rs 4,322 crore is stated to be under litigation.
 
 Now, the state has to inform the court on October 9 about steps taken by it to recover Rs 14,241 crore EDC from the realtors, who were given licences to develop colonies in the state. The EDC is supposed to be utilized for developmental work in new sectors and is a one-time charge levied on owners for development of various facilities like roads, water supply, sewerage systems and storm water drains. 
 
 The matter is pending before the HC in the wake of a bunch of petitions alleging delay in compensation to landowners by   ( ) that had acquired thousands of acres in the past.
 
 Meanwhile, explaining Huda’s financial status regarding availability of funds and liabilities, development authority’s chief administrator J   told the court that a of Rs 7,500 crore had been sanctioned as loan by different banks to Huda while approval for another Rs 2,700 crore is in the pipeline. 
 
 It was further stated that around Rs 4,226 crore had already been disbursed as compensation. Available amount with HUDA for disbursement to the landowners after including Rs 2,700 crore would be Rs 6,226 crore and in addition to this around Rs 70 crore are lying in Huda’s bank account, which was earlier attached by subordinate courts.
 
 Against the aforesaid available amount with Huda, disbursements have been made wherever the claims are received. Wide publicity is being given to landowners for payment of compensation wherever they are entitled to, Ganesan informed the HC. The development authority has also submitted that certain land acquisitions had been set aside and around Rs 4,226.09 crore paid as compensation to those landowners were recoverable. It has a total liability of around Rs 15,000 crore, which has to be paid to farmers across the state in lieu of acquisition of their land for development of various projects.
 
