DEHRADUN: The implementation of eco-sensitive zone (ESZ) notification is going to be a major poll issue in Uttarkashi region, where a section of people are fighting a case in   (NGT) in its favour. The people of over 80 villages say that they would dispel the negative publicity against the ESZ notification spread by main political parties in election by holding public meetings and door-to-door campaigns.
 
  Gopal Singh Rawat, BJP candidate who lost from Uttarkashi seat in 2012, told TOI: “It is by raking up the issue of ESZ, BJP will target Congress. The ruling party deliberately delayed framing of zonal master plan (ZMP) for two years. Public feedback was missing, which was mandatory before the preparation and submission of ZMP before the environment ministry.”
  
  Rawat, however, reiterated that ESZ, as packaged in notification form, is not suitable for the development of the area. “People would need roads, bridges, hydropower projects etc. which would otherwise get hampered with the ESZ being in the picture,” he said.
  
  A large delegation from the Uttarakhand government led by chief secretary,   has submitted a range of objections to the ESZ notification at a meeting called by ministry of water resources to discuss the zonal master plan for the implementation of ESZ.
  
  The National Green Tribunal (NGT) which is hearing a petition pleading for speedy implementation of the ESZ and adequate compensation to those affected by the 2013 floods had recently directed the  , secretary, ministry of water resources to hold this meeting.
  
  Uttarakhand demanded allowing hydro power projects (up to 25 MW), riverbed mining, and construction of roads among others which are all restricted by the ESZ notification.
  
  Local Congress MLA Vijay Pal Singh Sajwan was also against ESZ. Sajwan had met chief minister  , along with representatives of 88 villages, some months ago to appeal to do away with the notification.
  
  Environmentalists also allege that it is due to this propaganda, the people of 88 villages have been protesting against ESZ. Sajwan could not be contacted for his version in the story.
  
   , petitioner in Bhagirathi ESZ case before NGT, said, “Though it seems that the BJP is slightly inclining in favor of ESZ just to oppose the Congress in election, it is clear that the leaders of both these parties do not want ESZ in its present form to favor the contractor and mining mafia lobbies.
  
  He said that those, who have borne the brunt of the “disaster” because of the indiscriminate installation of hydro-power projects and constructions, would hold their own public meetings and run campaigns to dispel the myth spread by the candidates of the main parties about ESZ.
