NEW DELHI: From this  , Delhi University will not   multiple   by a candidate seeking admission to an undergraduate programme. The move will help colleges to arrive at a “reasonable” cutoff, said   officials while announcing the dates for UG admissions on Saturday.

 “Once a roll number of Class XII Board is fed into the system, the candidate will not be able to register for the second time using the same. This will put an end to the practice of   registrations by a candidate,” said Gurpreet Singh Tuteja, deputy dean, students’ welfare.
 
 However, in case of any error while filling up the centralised online registration form, candidates can edit it till the admission   is underway.
 
 Barring this, the admission policy remains the same. This year, the focus will to make the online platform “more user friendly”. 
 
 The registration process will begin on Monday and close on June 12. The first cutoff list will be released on June 20.
 
 Several new initiatives have been taken this year to make the admission process hassle-free. For instance, in the online application form, candidates will just have to fill their Board roll number and their marks will be automatically added to it. This is applicable to students of national Boards such as CBSE and ICSE.
 
 The entire procedure has been made online, including the payment of fees. The students have to furnish their bank account details at the time of filling the admission form, so that refund requests or transfer of fee on account of changes in college can be facilitated easily. 
 
 The application will be deemed complete only when the fees has been made. Officials said no extra fees would be charged in case students apply to multiple colleges and courses.
 
 This year, women applicants from the NCT need not register separately for admission to the Non-Collegiate Women’s Education Board (NCWEB). They need to click gender as female and area of residence as Delhi on the centralised online registration form and they will be automatically registered for admission under NCWEB. The first cutoff for NCWEB will be issued on June 24, 2017 and the list will be displayed on the website (www.ncweb.du.ac.in) as well as at all the centres. 
 
 The university is planning to hold its “Open Days” between May 22 and 31 on North Campus. 
 
