NEW DELHI: The government is looking to set up a mechanism for faster resolution of stressed assets that will allow state-run lenders to take a bigger haircut on their   without fear of vigilance action.
 
  This process is expected to be initiated with the top 50 nonperforming assets ( ) in the banking sector, officials said. Bad loans of state-run banks grew more than Rs 1 lakh crore in the first nine months of this financial year to Rs 6 lakh crore by December 31, 2016.
  
  A senior finance ministry official said that the government is working in consultation with the   to provide such comfort to bankers to fast-track the process.
 
  There will not be any forensic audit of such NPA accounts unless it’s a case of wilful default, since this may further delay the resolution process, said the official, who did not wish to be identified.
  
  Under the proposed mechanism, banks may bring in rating agencies to assess the quality of the asset, its financial health and future prospects, allowing them to reach a valuation.
  
  “Based on the rating of these assets, the banks will price them accordingly, which in some cases will not include the interest amount,” the official said, pointing out that it has been observed that in some cases that banks are unable to find any investors due to overpricing of assets.
  
  “So, if there is a feasible turnaround plan and for that banks may have to take a larger haircut, they should be able to do that without fear of vigilance action.”
  
  The valuation process based on ratings of the project may also be brought to the oversight committee set up by RBI to ensure that all due diligence has been done.
  
  “There has been this fear of vigilance action among bankers which has also led to delay in resolution process. This mechanism will ensure that bankers will be able to take more proactive stance in such cases,” said another government official.
  
  A senior executive with a state-run bank said that the process may work if it is supported by the government.
  
  “If the bank is getting a fair amount it may be open to taking a larger haircut rather than keep that account on its books,” the official said on condition of anonymity.
  
    chairman   recently wrote a strongly-worded letter to the finance ministry and the Prime Minister’s Office, highlighting the lack of action by banks on bad loans and suggesting a possible way ahead.
  
  Last week, finance minister   had said at the first meeting of his ministry’s consultative committee that the government is taking sector specific measures to deal with bad loans, especially resolution of large debts. This may include setting up more oversight committees for faster settlement of such cases.
