PUNE: Licences of 144 errant drivers were impounded on Thursday after they were caught by the traffic police for using their cellphones while behind the wheel.

 Taking serious cognizance of risks involved in talking or texting on cellphones while driving a vehicle, the traffic department launched a special campaign to catch such offenders on Wednesday . If caught, they could lose their driving license for the next 90 days. Officials said the action has been taken in accordance with provisions under Section 250(a) of a state government notification against dangerous driving under Maharashtra Motor Vehicles Rules, 1989.
 
 Officials said two-wheeler drivers as well as car drivers were caught on the second day of the all-out drive. The department is likely to continue taking action in the days ahead.
 
 The officials also said that information about the licenses that have been recommended by the traffic department for suspension are being forwarded to the   for further action.
 
 Deputy commissioner of police (traffic)   said it is unfortunate that citizens take a lot of risk while driving. “Half the attention of a driver is diverted when he or she uses a cellphone while driving. The photo evidence against some of those we caught on Wednesday was shocking -some were riding with the phone between their heads and shoulders, and a few others were dri ving with just one hand on the wheel,“ he said.
 
 Regional Transport Officer B I   said the driver runs the risk of not only injuring oneself but also other road users. “There are many occasions when two-wheelers and cars have near-misses on the roads because they were talking, texting or even looking at their phones.No one should stretch their luck till a serious accident happens. In fact, the new Motor Vehicle Act has gone after this and other such offences with more seriousness and steeper fines,“ he said.
 
 The RTO will start issuing show-cause notices in the coming days to those caught on Wednesday and Thursday , Ajri said. “Where there is photo or video evidence, there is no scope for argument or being lenient,“ he said.
 
 
