CHENNAI: The number of deaths on railway tracks under the jurisdiction of the Chennai   district came down by around 5% in 2016 since last year.

 Till November 2015, a total of 1,569 people lost their lives in the Chennai police district, which has three major sub-divisions -  , Egmore and Coimbatore. A comparison of the same period in 2016 shows the numbers have come down a notch to 1,479. The official data was recently released by the superintendent of the Chennai police district P Vijaykumar. This could be the result of some measures taken by railway officials over the past six months.
 
 “The major decrease, a drop by 64 deaths, was recorded in Chennai Central sub-division where the population density is higher,“ a senior railway officer said. The suburban sections of Chennai-Arakkonam and Chennai-Gummidipoondi fall under this sub-division.
 
 Only the Egmore sub-division stood out with data showing an increase by 8. This subdivision accounts for the Chennai-Tambaram-Chengalpet suburban train section, where   operates the maximum number of daily services. Interestingly , a number of educational institutions like schools and colleges are also located along the tracks. Sources said the Govern ment Railway Police and Rail way Protection Force have been acting on short, medium and long-term plans devised by au thorities to prevent accidents for the past few months. While railway officials in the engi neering department are work ing to construct boundary walls at certain locations to prevent people using the railway tracks as a shortcut, the security per sonnel are conducting aware ness campaigns at stations.
 
 “We have undertaken exten sive counselling sessions for students of educational institu tions. We explain to them the dangers of trespassing on the tracks and advise using foot over bridges and rail under bridges. We highlight how the deaths have an adverse impact on their families,“ said the official. Another warning is against use of earphones or speaking on the cellphones while crossing tracks, flouting which will invite strict action.
 
 Statistics show that nearly 15% of the deaths are due to suicides. For this, the zonal railway has tied up with Sneha, a NGO which deals with suicide-prevention.
 
 Decreasing the number of train runover deaths is a priority for the railways. Policy decisions have been taken to remove level crossings and replace them with bridges as apart from the loss of human lives, the death also traumatises loco pilots and causes operational difficulties.
 
 
