The courageous tale of 22-year-old   flight attendant   was immortalised on screen by actor   in the film 'Neerja' (2016), directed by Ram Madhvani, which won critical acclaim. Neerja’s family members supported the makers throughout the film's shooting but now, Neerja’s brother,  , has sent a notice of arbitration to the film’s producers, alleging that they refused to keep their side of the bargain. 
According to a contract signed between Neerja’s family and the producers, 10 per cent of the film’s net profit was to be received by the family to aid the Neerja Bhanot Pan Am Trust, which helps women who face social injustice. Bhanot’s lawyer, Anusha Nagarajan, told BT, “The amount offered to the family was substantially less than what was agreed upon.”
  
 Apparently, when the contract was signed between the producer, Bling Unplugged and the family, it was decided that the Bhanots would get a share of the profits made by them. The lawyer added, “There was some agreement between Bling Unplugged and  , because of which what the former got as profit was not much. As a result of which, what the Bhanot family was eventually offered was also not enough. They feel they have been unjustly dealt with.”
  
 When we got in touch with Aneesh, he didn’t want to elaborate on this issue. All he said was, “We will not tolerate injustice.” Meanwhile, 'Neerja's producer Atul Kasbekar said, “We had acquired the rights to make 'Neerja' from the Bhanot family. The agreement between Bhanots and Bling clearly spelt out that the Bhanots would be paid a fixed amount upfront (which was paid as per the timelines) and a variable amount, which was to be computed as a share of net profits that we would receive. It was always abundantly clear that we would partner with a studio, in this case  . The Bhanot family was aware of it. In fact, they met the studio representatives on many occasions. To imply otherwise is simply untrue. Integrity is a very important aspect of our company’s values and we are committed to meeting all its contractual commitments. All financial transactions, post release, have been shared with the Bhanot family immediately and in a transparent manner. Their share of the profits, which is a share of ours, was immediately offered. They have declined to accept the same and now wish to get a share of the studio profits. This is effectively a retrospective negotiation and not as per what was signed by them years ago. It is unfortunate that despite having a clear contractual arrangement, the Bhanots have decided to dispute the financial understanding at this belated stage. To reiterate, the amount due to the Bhanots, as per the existing contract, has been repeatedly offered by us to them.”
 
 Both sides in the battle for justice have not been able to agree upon a common arbitrator and the petition for appointment for an arbitrator will be placed before Punjab and Haryana High Court.
 
 
  
 
