SARDULGARH:   in   could not cross the 80% mark on Saturday, but electors in   constituency registered a turnout of 88.9% — the highest in the state this time and slightly better than its tally of 88.35% in the 2012 elections.

 According to locals, there are two major issues because of which electors here turned up in large numbers: one, industrial waste polluting the Ghaggar river, which flows through many villages in Sardulgarh; and two, the constituency’s proximity to Haryana’s Sirsa town, which is home to self-styled godman Gurmit Ram Rahim’s politically influential sect Dera Sacha Sauda.
 
 This year, 1.53 lakh of the segment’s 1.72 lakh registered voters exercised their franchise. Last time, 1.38 lakh of the total 1.56 lakh electors had turned up at polling booths. Ajit Inder Singh Mofar of Congress had won at that time.
 
 As far as Ghaggar is concerned, the river flooding areas in its vicinity is another problem, and locals have been demanding the construction of bundhs to control the situation. Though locals would drink the river’s water till some years ago, such is the pollution in it now that is not even considered fit for animals. “Ghaggar has been the biggest poll issue for us. We have been looking to the state government for a solution to the problem for 10 years,” said a resident of Sardulgarh town, Karnail Singh.
 
 One of the reasons why the constituency’s proximity to Dera Sacha Sauda is believed to have helped in the high voter turnout is the number of the sect’s followers who live in the area. According to the dera, there are nearly 28,000 of its followers in Sardulgarh.
 
 Agriculturists, too, came in large numbers to vote. “Farmers are hoping that a new government in the state would do something to help them,” Karnail added.
 
 Sardulgarh, which is 37km from Mansa and only 30km from Sirsa in Haryana, became an assembly segment after the trifurcation of Punjab in 1967. In all these years, it has been the battleground of Mofar and Shiromani Akali Dal’s (SAD’s) Balwinder Singh Bhundar.
 
 In the 11 elections since 1967, Bhundar has won 5 terms, while Mofar has won three times. This time, Mofar is facing Bhundar’s son Dilraj Singh. With AAP’s Sukhwinder Singh Bhola Mann also in the fray, the contest is triangular. Since 1997, Bhundar family and Mofar have faced each other in 4 elections. Of them, Mofar won in 1997, 2007 and 2012.
 
 Mofar described the high turnout as “verdict” against the present regime. “If Congress formed a government, we will solve the Ghaggar tangle,” he said. Dilraj, however, said people came to vote in such large numbers because of rapid development in the past 10 years.
 
 Mann felt voters were angry with the Congress and the SAD. “The turnout is because people want to oust both these parties and had been looking for a third option,” he said.
 
 
