Jaipur: Protesting against the recent state government’s announcement to shift the houses situated in 500-feet periphery of city airport, residents of nearby colonies gathered at Member of Parliament (MP) Ramcharan Bohara’s residence on Thursday morning . 

 Residents claimed that many houses are constructed 25 feet away from the airport boundary after receiving lease deeds and permission from the Jaipur Development Authority (JDA). Amendments in rules without a physical survey is unjustified as it would affect several plot owners who have invested their hard earned money. Protesters also believe that the state government is planning to acquire houses near the airport. 
 
 However, while meeting the protesters, MP claimed that he is not aware of any such order. The appeal could be forwarded to chief minister only after examining the orders. 
 
 A JDA official source said, there are no orders to acquire or demolish the houses near the airport. However, the Airports Authority of India (AAI) has put a cap on the construction of multi-storied buildings in 500 feet area from the boundary wall of Jaipur airport.
 
 In this regard the AAI has written a letter to Jaipur Development Authority (JDA). The JDA will now make amendments in the building bylaws and forward it to the state government for final approval. After the AAI orders, possibility of demolition of few buildings near the state hanger has increased.
 
 According to officials, there are three high–rises in the close periphery of the state hanger and Sanganer airport. Out of three, two developers have constructed buildings above 15 metres after receiving permission from the JDA. The matter is pending in the court.
 
 Also, there are many G+3 buildings constructed in Jagatpura and Siddharath Nagar, which nearly 300 feet away from the boundary wall. “The JDA will seek directions from the state government regarding the existing buildings,” said a JDA official of town planning department.
 
 High-rises and other buildings near the airport boundary wall have increased in the recent years due to negligence of JDA. To keep a check on high-rise buildings near the state hangar and Jaipur airport, the urban development and housing (UDH) department had also proposed to formulate separate bylaws for this zone.
 
 Two years ago directions were given to JDA’s zone commissioner to analyse and examine the bylaws of other airports in the country and formulate new norms. Sources in the department said, “The then additional chief secretary, Ashok Jain sought a report in 15 days. However, the report has not been prepared till date.”
 
 
