Gurgaon: DLF-3, one of the city’s most affluent areas, is Ward number 35. Its residents are only asking for basic facilities in the upcoming civic polls and hope the new   can get their broken   repaired, stormwater drains constructed, power infra upgraded and encroachments removed before the MCG finally takes over the maintenance of the area.

 Residents claim there has been no   development for years and their repeated requests to civic authorities have only fallen on deaf ears. “No infrastructure upgrade has been done here in the past decade. The MCG councillor should be powerful enough to make sure the area gets the due share promised by the developer,” said Om Prakash Sharma, a resident.
 
 “Roads are non-existent in the area. There are also no functional stormwater drains in an upscale area like ours. Natural drains are blocked by illegal encroachment. We have been struggling to take up the issues with MCG, but the civic body officials say they can’t do much as the area is still under a private developer. We need a councillor who can take up the matter with MCG,” said Rajinder Singh, another resident of DLF-3.
 
 Talking about encroachments and mushrooming of illegal paying guest (PG) facilities, Inderjit Sahni, another local resident, said, “Encroachments by street vendors, parking mafia and PGs is one of the biggest problems in our area. Be it Nathupur village or DLF Phase III, paying guest facilities have come up illegally all across the ward. The security of the area is also at risk due to illegal construction.”
 
 Some residents also pointed out that encroachments and illegal construction are leading to power outages and   crisis in the area.
 
 “Power infrastructure in the area is not built to take up the current load as the population in the area is much higher than it should be. Illegal construction of floors on 60 yards plots is a major cause of outages. Similarly, the area faces water crisis across the year due to this issue. We expect the new councillor to take immediate steps in these regard,” said Sadhana Punia, another resident of DLF-3.
 
 Sudhir Kapoor, president of DLF City RWA, said, “DLF-3 is a complex place. Some blocks such as U Block has many 60 yard plots that have been converted into paying guest facilities. Residents have constructed five to six floors with a basement on these plots. There is so much encroachment in the area. Despite our repeated attempts and intervention of MCG, very little work has been carried out in the area.”
 
 Apart from DLF-3, ward number 35 also covers National Media Centre, Ambience Island, Cyber City, Garden Estate, Nathupur and Sikanderpur Ghosi.
 
 Residents of National Media Centre, another township, on the other hand, demand better traffic management on Delhi-Gurgaon expressway. “The prime focus should be on better traffic management on the expressway as entry and exit to/from the township is a regular struggle for us,” said Rachna, a resident of the township.
 
 “We expect the new councillor to help resolve issues like illegal parking and bad traffic management on Shankar Chowk. I feel that an urban candidate will be able to address the issues properly,” she added.
 
 However, when contacted, the incumbent MCG councillor, Sunder, pleaded helplessness. “I worked day and night for the development of the area. However, areas like DLF-3, National Media Centre and Ambience Island have not been taken over by the corporation. So despite my will and hard work, I couldn’t help the residents of these areas,” he told TOI.
 
 
