NEW DELHI: The high court on Friday said “darshan” by devotees at   should be streamlined and summoned the local station house officer to chalk out a roadmap.

 “This court is of the view that darshan of the deity to the devotees should be managed in a systematic manner as is being done in other temples. In Vaishno Devi Shrine, two single person lines are permitted and each devotee is allowed an unobstructed darshan, may be for a fraction of a second. In Jhandewalan Temple, there are separate lines from different directions and one un-obstructed darshan from a distance is available to the devotees,” Justice J R Midha noted in his order.
 
  was hearing a priest’s plea seeking a judicial order to restrain his two sisters from doing puja and ‘sewa’ at the temple and sharing offerings collected. As an interim arrangement, the priest agreed to pay Rs 6 lakh each to his two sisters from the offerings collected during the ‘puja sewa’ from February 7 to March 7. In view of the proposal made by the priest, the court directed them to give within three days post-dated cheques of February 24 to both the woman.
 
 The court used the opportunity to express its thoughts on the running of   temple, saying priests shouldn’t obstruct communication between devotees and God. It also appointed the two lawyers appearing for the siblings as amicus curiae and asked them to visit temples at Kalkaji and Jhandewalan.
 
 Seeking ways to manage the rush of people, HC remarked that as it is “there is only a fraction of a second for a person to view the deity and within that fraction, there should be no obstruction between devotees and God” adding that “it seems the priests are there only to obstruct. Give a person one or two seconds to communicate with God. The people there (the priests) are not better enlightened that they can communicate to God better than devotees.”
 
 Against a lower court order that ruled in favour of the sisters, the priest had approached HC through his counsel B L Wali, arguing since the married sisters belong to different families and gotra, they have no rights to perform ‘puja sewa’ between February 7 and March 7.
 
 He said the lower court’s February 4 order should be stayed and his sisters be restrained from performing the puja. Earlier, the priest’s lawyer had told the court that from time immemorial, only male descendants of the family were entitled to proceed with offerings since they performed puja and other rituals.
 
 
