MUMBAI: The year 2017 couldn't have started on a worse note for the present bunch of Indian cricket administrators than it did on Monday, with the Supreme Court dismissing   Anurag Thakur and secretary Ajay Shirke from their posts.

 In doing so, the apex court also ordered that the senior-most of BCCI's five vice-presidents to take over as interim head and the joint secretary to act as the secretary till Jan 19.During this period, senior advocates Fali S Nariman and Gopal Subramanium ­ also the amicus curaie to the SC ­ will decide on the new set of administrators to govern the board.
 
 As per the court's directive, joint secretary  , who represents the Jharkhand State Cricket Association, will act as the secretary during this interim period. But none of the five vice-presidents - ML Nehru (North), Gautam Roy (East), G Ganga Raju (South), TC Mathew (West) and CK Khanna (Central) - look ineligible under the new tenure and age-caps recommended by the Lodha panel. While J&K's Nehru is 70-plus, the other four have already completed their tenures and have to go in for the mandatory cooling-off period.
 
 However, sources said Khanna, the senior-most VP in the board, could be made the interim president till January 19 if his tenure in Delhi & District Cricket Association (DDCA) is not taken into account.
 
 Explaining the impending scenario, a source in the Lodha Committee told TOI that “it's perfectly alright if there's no president for the next couple of weeks. The committee will get in touch with the (BCCI) CEO and ensure that the administration functions smoothly till the new set of administrators are appointed”.
 
 The new set of administrators, it is learnt, is likely to be from outside the BCCI. The Lodha panel expects to have former home secretary GK Pillai on board along with two other individuals of a similar stature or with solid cricketing background. Subramanium, for the record, had mentioned the names of ex-CAG Vinod Rai and former India allrounder Mohinder Amarnath.
 
 “Once the new administrators are appointed, they will oversee the implementation of the Lodha Committee recommendations in state associations,” the source added.
 
 Anurag Thakur and Ajay Shirke had maintained all along that while they ­ in capacity of being office bearers ­ were ready to implement the recommendations in toto, the state associations had refused to budge on this issue. Now with Thakur and Shirke gone, it is unlikely that associations will continue to be defiant. “The state associations will certainly agree. The individuals responsible for creating certain impediments have been removed,” the source said.
 
