 College, Panaji, on Sunday won the general championship trophy 2017 at ‘Bravolia’, the inter-collegiate competition organized by the Bachelor of Management Studies, Sant Rawool Maharaj College, Kudal-Maharashtra.
 
  Over 350 students from 14 colleges mainly from the western region - Belgaum, Mumbai,  , Sindhudurg, Ratnagiri and Goa, participated in the two-day event.
  
  State universities which took part were Mumbai, Shivaji (Kolhapur),   (Belgaum) University and Goa.
  
  Geeta Heble, a US-based writer and teacher of 40 years, enlightened the students on adopting the right communicative skills to succeed in life. In her keynote address, Heble spoke to students on her life as an Indian and a teacher living in the US for over 50 years.
  
  Speaking on effective communiction, she emphasised on correct usage of words, sounds, signs and behaviour.
  
  “I handled 13 schools, 10,000 students and 650 teachers as an administrator. I had to understand the American language and the accent to be able to communicate effectively to the students and teachers,” she said.
  
  “One shouldn’t adopt a foreign accent to show off. You must also maintain eye contact with the person you are speaking to. Also, learn to be a good listener. Besides, never interrupt any speaker while making a point. After the speaker has spoken, you can excuse yourself and make your point politely,” she said.
  
  It was also her advice to students to preferably take up the unbeaten path in life and pursue their goals with perseverance. Geeta also highlighted the importance of English fluency to be able to survive in the world full of opportunities today. Giving an example of American poet,  , in his poem ‘The road not taken’, she encouraged the youth on taking the unbeaten path and to make a difference through hard work and practice.
  
  Anil Nerurkar, a noted US-based gynaecologist, who voluntarily visits the college twice a year, guiding pupils, said that for top interviews, 50% of their chances depend on communicative skills, 25% for their analytical mind, and whatever knowledge they gain in college is bare minimal.
  
  The trophy and awards were given away by Nerurkar, Heble, Avinash Talekar (vice -chairman of K M S P Mandal’s, Kudal), Mohan Hodavdekar, principal V G Bhaskar, head of department and ‘Bravolia’ coordinator Somdatta Chavan.
