MANGALURU: The scholars of Vishwa   Scholarship Fund Alumni Association (VAA) came together on Saturday for the third edition of Prerna — a confluence of ideas and motivation — and engaged in an enlivening discussion that was both invigorating and inspiring. The speakers at the event included personalities from various walks of life, from television anchor Sonia Shenoy to Brigadier (retd.) CMF Prabhu to the managing director of IFMR Capital Kshama Fernandes. Corporate social leader   was seen keenly following the discussion. 

 Sandeep Shenoy, chief mentor for Prerna, said, “The idea behind Prerna is to expose the youth to the best minds from various fields, and help them learn a lesson or two from the interaction.”
 
 Sonia Shenoy set the stage by reminding students about the benefits of failure and the need to find one’s true passion. Brigadier Prabhu highlighted the virtues of a disciplined life. Kshama recalled the journey of her life, from growing up in a small fishing village in Goa to becoming the MD of a financial institution, wherein she was in a position to help those who were underprivileged. 
 
 President of Coca-Cola India and  , Venkatesh Kini appreciated the idea behind Prerna. “I am passionate about motivating and helping youngsters,” Kini told STOI. 
 
 He added that the involvement of Mohandas Pai at the event made Prerna a must-attend event for the youngsters in the city. Kshama too said that youngsters could expand their horizons by listening to experts from various feilds. “Youngsters will absorb everthing that comes their way at this stage. This is the best time to interact with youth, when they are most receptive to ideas,” she added. 
 
 Dr Sunil Shenoy, head, urology department, A J Hospital and Sundeep V Bambolkar, joint MD, Indoco Remedies were the other dignitaries present at the event. 
 
 ‘It is pride that matters most to soldiers’
 
 Indian Army has a long tradition of officers leading from the front and this explains the high number of casualties of officers on the battlefield. Soldiers who come from rustic background are willing to lay down their lives to follow such officers. For them (soldiers), it is their izzat (pride) that matters and they will do anything to defend that. 
 
 – C M R Prabhu | Brigadier (retd.)
 
 ‘It is important to have a fit body for a fit mind’
 
 With each mistake, I learnt a little more about myself and people around me. It was my constant endeavor to change myself and not repeat the mistakes I committed and then strive to change the world around me. To accomplish something big in life, it doesn’t matter where you come from. It is imperative to have a fit body for a fit mind, and one should not discount knowledge that one gains from textbooks. 
 
 – Kshama Fernandes | MD, IFMR Capital
 
 ‘Even leading B-schools will envy our lineup of speakers’
 
 It has now become a lot easier for VAA to bring speakers of repute to Prerna. This lineup of speakers will definitely be a cause for envy even for leading B-Schools who often boast of getting the best in the industry to interact with their students. The lineup has taken care to address all sections of professional education and the energy shown by VAA office-bearers in arranging the whole thing is laudable. 
 
 – Sandeep Shenoy | Chief mentor, Prerna.
 
