MUMBAI: The   upheld the acquittal of a 74-year-old lawyer in a case of bigamy, cheating and  . The case was filed 23 years ago by a woman he was allegedly married to for two decades and who lived with him and his first wife and their children for 13 years.

 “Satishkumar Tiwari practices criminal law in Pune. The HC order vindicates his innocence,” his counsel Abhaykumar Apte said on Sunday.
 
 A magistrate in Pune, where the FIR was registered, had acquitted Satishkumar Tiwari in 2001. The magistrate had held that the prosecution had failed to produce any evidence against him. The state, however, had chosen to appeal, even for bigamy. On July 7, in what would have been the ‘43rd wedding anniversary’ of Tiwari and complainant, Justice Vibha Kankanwadi, while dismissing the state’s appeal, held that the magistrate’s view on appreciation of evidence was a plausible one. Justice Kankanwadi relied on Supreme Court verdicts which state that when there are two possible views but the view taken by the trial court is a plausible one, it can’t be set aside and substituted during an appeal against acquittal. 
 
 Tiwari and the complainant had allegedly got a ‘registered marriage’ in Nagpur in 1974. She didn’t explain in court why it was a registered wedding and there wasn’t an official seal on the ‘marriage certificate’. Also, the prosecution didn’t examine proper witnesses to establish the marriage, the HC observed. 
 
 Tiwari would visit her in Nagpur twice a month. When she went to Pune in 1974, to check why he didn’t want take her there, she found that he had a wife since 1967 and four children. She gave birth to a child in 1976 and got a job transfer to Pune in 1981, where they all lived together till she filed the FIR in 1994, accusing him of threatening to kill her and getting her to sign blank stamp papers to take over her bungalow. 
 
 Tiwari’s counsel Apte said not once did she accuse him of harassment when they all were living together. 
 
 The offence of bigamy was ‘not even attracted in this case’ said the HC as she was ‘well aware’ of the lawful wife. Tiwari was charged under IPC Section 494, a non-conizable offence, which is punishable with up to seven years in jail. It makes it an offence to marry again during the lifetime of a wife or husband as the second marriage is void. “Section 494 IPC can be invoked for subsequent marriage and not for previous legal marriage,” said the HC. “She has not given details of the alleged harassment or ill-treatment,” said the HC, observing that ‘there was less scope of harassment’ as she was ‘residing with accused since 1974 and the FIR was lodged on July 1, 1994.”
 
 The HC also found that she was ‘silent’ on any misrepresentations made before her alleged marriage. “Unless the deception is since beginning, it won’t mean a cheating case,” said the judge. The HC added that when evidence on record shows that she was aware of his first wife, “her claims that she, as the legally wedded wife, goes away and therefore, the question of attracting the provisions of Section 498A IPC (cruelty to wife by husband, in-laws) will not arise.”
 
