CHANDIGARH: A one-day national   on the theme of ‘Next-Gen Challenges in Pharmaceutical Sciences’ was held in the Panjab University campus. The symposium was organized under the aegis of Centre of Advanced Studies (CAS) at the   (UIPS). The symposium chair and chairperson, UIPS, Prof Renu Chadha, welcomed the delegates and resource persons with a warm greeting address. More than 120 delegates from across the country participated in the symposium and showcased their research work.

 CAS co-ordinator Prof  , the organizing chair of the symposium, highlighted the genesis and details of the symposium, and the benefits that will be reaped by the gathered scientific community. A brief overview of the one-day event was elaborated by organizing secretary Prof Ranju Bansal. Imtech (Institute of Microbial Technology) director Professor Anil Koul, the chief guest on the occasion, highlighted the demand for new drug molecules in the market, sharing his experience in the birth of Sirturo, a drug molecule approved by the FDA (Food and Drug Administration) for the treatment of multiple drug-resistant tuberculosis.
 
 The keynote address, delivered by Prof Ram Vishwakarma, director of   (IIIM) Jammu, touched upon the new opportunities in discovering leading drugs from natural products. He encouraged the young faculty and researchers to harvest and tap natural resources to formulate drugs for the betterment of mankind. In his presidential remarks, Prof OP Katare, director of Research Promotion Cell, Panjab University, highlighted the importance of integrating medication with medicine.
 
 The scientific lectures were delivered by Dr RC Malhotra, director, Palmdale Regional Medical Centre, California, USA; and Professor SK Chadha, professor and chairperson,   (UBS), Panjab University, Chandigarh. The scientific sessions evoked excellent response, as they witnessed interactive exchanges between young researchers with their innovative queries, and pharma experts with their pragmatic solutions. 
 
