PANAJI: Taking over as the new state Congress president from Navelim MLA Luizinho Faleiro, senior Congressman and outgoing   MP Shantaram Naik said he had no intention of bringing down the BJP-led  , which currently enjoys the support of 21 MLAs. The three-time Goa Pradesh Congress Committee (GPCC) president did however assert that the   government would not last long.

 “Formation of government is not my top priority. I will not topple the government, but the government will fall, and when it does, you can be sure that the Congress will not shirk from its responsibility,” Naik said, sending a clear signal to many who felt that his appointment would pave the way for the Congress to combine with BJP allies and pull down the state government.
 
 Outlining his objectives for the party, Naik said that first priority would be to build the party from the grassroots level, while also improving its membership.
 
 “By stating that the party will be strengthened at the grassroots level, I mean I will monitor every ward at the panchayat level,” he said.
 
 Naik’s appointment as the party president comes after months of murmurings within the Congress that Faleiro’s leadership was a hindrance. 
 
 Congress MLAs, especially Curtorim MLA Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenco, had openly challenged Faleiro’s leadership and even blamed the Navelim MLA for the party’s failure to form the government despite emerging as the single largest party in the assembly elections.
 
 Other than opposition leader Chandrakant Kavlekar, Faleiro, Ponda MLA  , Taleigao MLA Jennifer Monserrate and St Cruz MLA Antonio Fernandes, no other   was present for the handover ceremony. Political observers noted that the absence of Margao MLA Digambar Kamat, Poriem MLA Pratapsingh Rane and Mandrem MLA Dayanand Sopte clearly indicates that all is not well within party ranks.
 
 When asked how he proposed to unify the party MLAs, Naik’s cryptic remark raised more questions than answers. “I can’t turn people’s head to face one direction. They will come together,” he said.
 
