At the crack of dawn on Sunday, tens of thousands of people thronged the   sporting colourful jerseys. Some sported blue crowns reading #autism, while others carried signs demanding gender equality and child rights. They were all there to participate in the   — either to test their own endurance or support a cause they believed in.

 The 14th edition of   saw over 42,000 runners —elite, amateur, differently abled people, senior citizens and those with a social messages—cross the finish line. And it wasn’t Mumbaikars alone. The starting line saw runners from across the country—and some from outside, too. 
 
 Marathoner Pritam Kumar travelled from Kashmir, while orthopaedic surgeon Samir Patil came from Malegaon in Nasik district to participate in his fifth Mumbai Marathon.“I keep coming here for the spirit of Mumbai. This city is one of its kind,” said Patil, who was cheered on by people along the half-marathon route. Cheering the 14,000-odd half marathoners from the grandstand were also chief minister Devendra Fadnavis and wife Amruta.
 
 The full marathon was flagged off by governor Ch   Rao. Ravinder Bhakar, chief PRO of Western Railway who ran the full marathon, said, “It was more humid than we expected it to be as the past few days had been cooler. We were sweating a lot and took around 25-30 minutes more than what we had planned to finish.”
 
 Several runners had similar complaints. On Sunday morning, the humidity levels in the city touched 91%. The IMD’s Santacruz observatory recorded a minimum temperature of 18.2 degrees celsius, almost two degrees higher than on the race day in 2016.
 
 What kept the runners’ spirits from flagging, especially during the uphill   stretch, was the cheering by residents and onlookers. “The people of Mumbai were terrific,” said Sanjeev Singh (48). “They came out with juices, sandwiches and biscuits and because I am an old man I would get even more cheers,” said Singh who got the motivation to run the marathon after reading a newspaper report about a 94-year-old woman marathoner. “After reading that, I felt I had no excuse not to run,” said Singh. 
 
 Some overcame challenges to compete. Nihar Modi, for instance, tore his ligament while playing football in November. Overcoming the injury, he finished the marathon in 3 hours 52 minutes. “I had exam practicals scheduled for Sunday but I wrote to the university requesting that it be postponed and they agreed,” he said.
 
 Similarly, 68-year-old retired army officer Virendra Rawat completed the full marathon despite having fever a couple of days ago. "I trained for a year and so I was disappointed when I got fever just two days before the run. My family did not want me to run but I wasn't ready to give up," he said. As soon as he touched the finish line, Rawat walked in with the help of a volunteer, straight into the medical base camp. 
 
 Naresh Dewani (40) who has been wheelchair bound for the past few years following a road accident, had his 10-year-old son give him a push to the finish line. “I have been participating in the run for seven years to encourage those with disabilities to get out of homes and lead a normal life. I take people out on excursions to show them it’s possible,” said Dewani who was joined by 432 others in the champions with disability run. 
 
 The 6-km Dream Run, which had the highest number of participants (almost 20,000), was a carnival of colours as people turned up in costumes— such as dressed like an ATM or with their face painted— to drive home social messages.
 
 Dressed in khaki kurtas and dhotis, a group from the Isha Foundation in Coimbatore took part in the half marathon. This non-religious, non-profit organization runs a rural education program called Isha Vidya. They were participating to draw attention to the issue of rural education and raise funds for the school, which takes 60% of scholarship students.
 
 
