Nagpur: The Nagpur bench of Bombay   disposed off the plea on horrible conditions of state mortuaries after the government made a statement that they would be upgrading them within three to four years as per its policy decision.

 “While accepting statement by additional government pleader and affidavit by then Medical Education and Research’s additional chief secretary (Medha Gadgil), we direct the respondents to abide by the time schedule specified therein and to complete the work accordingly,” a division bench comprising justices Bhushan Dharmadhikari and Rohit Deo said.
 
 The bench however kept open suggestions given by petitioner. “Procedures or model being followed by the respondents can be compared by the petitioner with his suggestions and can approach HC again if necessary,” the judges said, while partly allowing the PIL by Sahyog Trust trustee Ravindra Bhusari through counsel Smita Singalkar.
 
 The PIL cited “disturbing” media reports that rodents continued to eat bodies at Indira Gandhi Government Medical College’s (IGGMC)  , on account of authorities’ shocking apathy and negligence.
 
 During last hearing Gadgil informed about complete timetable on entire procedure for erecting additional infrastructure. She sought three to four years to upgrade mortuaries at Government Medical Colleges (GMCs) and hospitals in terms of additional infrastructure like new buildings, equipment and manpower.
 
 According to Gadgil, she had instructed Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER), to present comprehensive progress report of all state-owned mortuaries. Accordingly, DMER informed that Rs61.71 crore would be required for their upgradation and recruiting manpower. Subsequently, she convened an emergent meeting on March 23 where it was decided to move file to finance and planning departments for funds.
 
 She informed that the government accepted expert’s panel’s report for mortuaries upgradation and agreed to release Rs27.37 crores for additional civil construction. The funds will be provided to Public Work Department (PWD) after obtaining necessary sanction and budgeting. 
 
 
