COIMBATORE:   have now developed a small wafer made of nanofibers that delivers chemotherapy and dissolves  . Made in India, the product that will cost just Rs 50,000, one sixth of the price of imported devices, is expected to hit the market in five years, the scientists said.

 The implant was developed by a group from   with Rs 5 crore funding by the department of science and technology, government of India. The research was published recently in  , Nature.
 
 Oncologists say there is risk of reoccurrence of high grade brain tumours, despite surgery, chemotherapy drugs and radiation. “Cells that are invisible to the surgeon will remain in the tumour resected margin. Some of these cells may be resistant to chemotherapy and radiation. These cells multiply and cancer recurs. In most patients recurrence happens within the first two years,“ said Manzoor Koyakutty, a professor at Amrita Institute of Nanomedicine, who developed the implant.
 
 The nano-wafer which will be placed in the tumour cavity has the potential to destroy residual tumour cells. It will also release chemotherapy drugs slowly over two month and fade away, said Koyakutty. “The drug it elutes will significantly inhibit tumour recurrence and extend the life of the patient,“ he said.
 
 What has excited oncologists and neurosurgeons even more about the flexible and biocompatible wafer is its cost. Sri Ramachandra Medical University consultant neurosurgeon Dr K Selva Kumar said that similar implants are available abroad. “They are generally purchased from Germany, Japan and the USA for Rs 3-4 lakh but their effect lasts for about four years,“ he said.
 
 Koyakutty said it was a challenge to get the wafer to release the drug in a continuous and controlled manner. “Products in the US and European market deliver drugs in the brain for just upto a week, but we wanted our implant to deliver the drug up to two months at a lower cost,“ Koyakutty said.
 
 Scientists say indigenous wafer has undergone extensive testing in animal models and no adverse effects were seen.“We are now testing the drug on larger animals such as pigs,“ said Koyakutty. If these trials succeed, the wafer will have to undergo clinical trials before it hits the market.
 
 Glioma -a tumour that starts in the brain or spine -accounts for 5-6% of all tumours in India. The disease has high mortality rates because   does not effectively kill tumours cells in the brain. “Only 30-32% of the drug reaches the brain. But a   can elute 100% drug directly in to the tumour,“ said Dr Dilip Panikar, head of neuro surgery at Amrita Hospital.
 
