PUNE: Builders have urged the state government not to increase the Ready Reckoner (RR) rates considering a 30% dip in property sales post demonetisation.

 The RR rates, which will be announced on April 1, form the basis on which stamp duty is collected from property purchasers. 
 
 In a letter to the state revenue department, builders’ body Credai has requested that the last year’s rates be maintained this year too. The body is not sure if the market will see an immediate recovery in the New Year. “A lot depends on the   (Regulation and Development) Act, 2016 (RERA) too,” it said.
 
 Shantilal Kataria, president of  , told TOI that the government should consider the overall slump in the market and low property sales while deciding on the RR rates. “They should either maintain the same as last year or keep it lower,” Katariya said, adding that the government cannot think of only increasing their revenue.
 
 The stamp duty and registration department provides the maximum revenue to the state exchequer. This year, the department has been given a target of Rs 23,548 crore from stamp duty and the department has already achieved nearly 60% of the target till December-mid last year.
 
 Katariya said in many states RR rates are announced once in three years. 
 
 When contacted, Credai vice-president   said property registrations have gone down considerably over the last two months. “We are not sure as to when the sector will return to normalcy. So this is the time when the government should respond and give a true representation of the market. Like last year, we are proposing that the rates should not be increased,” he said.
 
 However, revenue officials from the mantralaya said preliminary meetings on the issue are yet to take place. Revenue minister   is expected to meet various sectors this week to initiate talks on the RR rates. “While the sector and survey-wise rates will be considered, some rural areas do not represent the current rates and will have to be changed accordingly,” senior revenue officials said .
 
 Last year, the RR rates were increased amid lot of protest even when the real estate sector was going through a lean phase. The revenue officials had then termed the hike as “moderate” when compared to the increase in the rates in the last six years. The realtors said the revision in rates will hit home buyers and also impact the construction cost for properties.
 
 Home buyers have to pay stamp duty equivalent to 6% (including 1% VAT) of the RR value or 6% of the actual property value as mentioned in the sale agreement, whichever is more while property tax computations are also linked to RR rates in the city areas. “Last year, the moderate hike was implemented considering the drought-like situation in the state. Also, the actual property transactions recorded in 2015 were taken into account then and the same should be done this year too,” the revenue officials said. The rates last year were an average of 8% for properties in rural areas, 7% in peri-urban areas and 5% in the areas falling under the municipal corporations.
 
 Last April, Maharashtra and Mumbai saw an average increase of RR rates by 7-8%, Navi Mumbai by 4% and Pune at 6%. Last year’s rise was the lowest in comparison to the earlier years. In 2014, the RR rates were increased by 22% and in 2013 by 27%. 
 
