VISAKHAPATNAM: The state government is focussing on a second   on   as its planned Signature Tower has failed to take off. 

 The second tower will come with a capacity of 2 lakh square feet built up space.
 
 “We are planning the second tower as we feel the capacity of the under-construction tower is not sufficient for future growth of IT and IT enabled services. Suitable land for the second tower is yet to be identified, but it will come up at  ,” JA Choudary, chief adviser to the IT department, told TOI
 
 The state government had sanctioned Rs 80 crore for construction of the first IT Millennium Tower with a built up area of 3 lakh square feet. The tower will include a ground plus four floors. The total area of the first tower will cover around four acres close to the existing   on Hill Number 3 of Rushikonda IT SEZ. 
 
 The IT Millennium Tower at Rushikonda is set to house   when it becomes operational within the next one year, said JA Choudary, chief adviser to the IT department. 
 
 An IT expert from the city said mere provision of physical infrastructure like a building may not give the desired results in the IT sector. “There should be recreation facilities like entertainment, malls, residential buildings, parks in the surrounding areas of the Rushikonda IT SEZ besides and requisite manpower and IT products also play a role in the development of IT in the city,” the IT company head said.
 
 When contacted, K Vijayanand, principal secretary to the IT department in the state, said, “The government is aware of all the essential things required for the IT development in the state. We are concentrating on creation of an ecosystem that can attract IT companies to the city. It takes some time to bear fruits of the government’s endeavours.” 
 
 Meanwhile, officials said the government invited global tenders three times for the Signature Tower, which was supposed to have a built up area of 10 lakh square feet in Rushikonda. However, no firm has evinced interest in taking up the project.
 
