LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh expressed its interest in using the expertise of Israel in development of agriculture, irrigation, horticulture, energy, science and technology, smart cities and other sectors, chief minister   said in a meeting with Israeli ambassador Daniel Carmon here on Tuesday.

 Yogi informed the visiting envoy that owing to depleting ground water level, many regions of the state have been declared dark zones and techniques developed by Israel could be of help in areas like Bundelkhand.
 
 Yogi directed state chief secretary to constitute a joint-group to identify ways and means by which Israel and Uttar Pradesh can cooperate in the fields of agriculture, trade, culture and other policy related matters. The Israeli envoy thanked the chief minister for extending him an invitation to visit the state.
 
 “It was a historical meeting and exciting. Doors are now open for us. We shared options for future collaboration in various fields and we hope there will be results on ground. The chief minister took keen interest in knowing about our technologies, especially our expertise in agriculture technology,” Carmon told TOI after the meeting.
 
 Carmon said strengthening of bilateral ties with India was one of the priorities of the Israeli government and narrated the problems Israel faced during nation building. He added that other than solving the problem of water shortage, special attention was accorded to food security for its citizens.
 
 The Israeli envoy informed the chief minister that at present Israel was assisting India in 40 projects related to agriculture and horticulture of which 15 projects have been completed. Two projects are also being developed in Uttar Pradesh of which one is in Basti and the other is the vegetable development centre in Kannauj.
 
 Carmon also said that his country can also extend their cooperation to the ' ' project rolled out by Prime Minister  . With this, Israel can also assist in coordinating and facilitating investment from Israeli investors and industrial houses.
 
