MUMBAI: Those who believe that the past is always present are in for a treat. Long before `globalization' became a tired buzzword, India has had dialogues with the world. Who knew, for example, that Dutch master Rembrandt had sketched a portrait of the Mughal Emperor Jehangir; or that, in 1515 CE, Albrecht Durer created a stunning woodcut print of an Indian rhinoceros, based only on travellers' reports, long before Instagram obliterated imagination.

 These incredible exhibits are going to be a part of an iconic and vast exhibition, titled India and the World: A History in Nine Stories, which will open at Mumbai's Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Vastu Sangrahalaya (CSMVS) later this year, and then travel to Delhi's National Museum.
 
 The exhibition has been inspired by A History of the World in 100 Objects, a fascinating book and radio series by former   director  . It brings together collections from the British Museum in London, National Museum in Delhi and CSMVS in Mumbai as well as several other Indian museums. The proposed exhibition will select nine impor tant historical mo ments of India to explore what was happening across the globe,“ says  , head of CSMVS.“The unique aspect of this project is that the starting point for each section will be what was happening in India in a particular timeframe.“
 
 Visitors will begin in the gallery called Shared Boundaries, which displays stone tools. They will journey through seven eras divided chronologically as First Cities (Harappa, Mohenjodaro, Ur, Babylon, etc), Empire, Faith and Society , Picturing the Divine,   Trade, Court Culture, Shared Worlds (globalization). The exhibition will end with a dreamlike interpretation of history--Time Unbound.
 
 Planned to coincide with 70 years of Independence, the exhibition presents objects from India and around the world brought together in conversation with each other.“The wider, global context of these moments will be suggested by objects from the British Museum, including a head of Emperor Hadrian, one of the most famous Roman emperors, one of the earliest hand axes found in Africa that speaks to our shared beginnings, whilst the contemporary Throne of Weapons from Mozambique comments on globalization and empire, but is ultimately a symbol of reconciliation and peace,“ says Hartwig Fischer, director, British Museum.
 
 “All museums rest on the hope -the belief -that the study of things can lead to a truer understanding of the world...,“ MacGregor wrote, in his book published last year. Like Durer, who drew an animal he had never seen but only imagined based on evidence and information gathered, these objects seek to help build images of a world in the past, which can only help to get a better understanding of where we all come from.
 
