PATNA: A week after PM   and   CM   showed unusual bonhomie at a function to mark the 350th birth anniversary of tenth Sikh Guru Gobind Singh here, the JD(U) on Friday sent an invitation to   to join its ‘dahi-chura’ (curd and flattened rice) special feast on January 15, a day after Makar Sankranti.

 It is for the first time since the alliance between the two parties broke in June 2013 that JD(U) has sent an invitation to BJP seniors for the ‘dahi-chura’ feast which is organised every year during the Makar Sankranti by the JD(U)’s Bihar unit president and Rajya Sabha member Bashishtha Narayan Singh. More interestingly, all the BJP seniors, who have got invitations, have agreed to join the feast to be organised at Singh’s residence. 
 
 “Bashishtha Singh has personally telephoned me and requested me to join the feast. I have personal relations with him since our college days. We know each other for the last 40 years. I will join the JD(U)’s feast,” former deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi told TOI on Friday. Modi admitted that it is for the first time that he and other BJP leaders have got invitation for the annual feast from the JD(U) after the two parties severed ties in June 2013.
 
 He, however, said ‘dahi-chura’ feast is just a social event and no political meaning should be derived from it. The leader of opposition in Bihar assembly Prem Kumar too confirmed having received an invitation from JD(U). 
 
 “I don’t recall if BJP leaders joined our ‘dahi-chura’ feast in the last three years. But if they have accepted our invitation, it is a good sign. The feast will ease our political bitterness,” JD(U) spokesperson and MLC Neeraj Kumar told TOI. 
 
 The BJP, which initially criticised the stringent liquor law of the state government, softened its stand after the PM publicly praised Nitish for enforcing prohibition in the state, and decided to join the human chain to spread awareness against harmful effects of liquor. 
 
 In Bihar, it is the season of politics over ‘dahi-chura’. Besides the JD(U), RJD boss Lalu Prasad, like previous years, has organised a similar feast at his residence on January 14. Lalu has invited all leaders of the RJD, JD(U) and Congress to his feast. He has also sent invitations to a select group of senior NDA leaders, including former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi and Sushil Kumar Modi.
 
 BJP MLC Rajnish Kumar will also organise a similar feast on Saturday, but he has invited only his partymen. The LJP will organise ‘dahi-chura’ feast at its office on January 16.
 
 
