HUBBALLI: Fearing attack from hardline organizations, many colleges in the city have decided to ban the celebration of Valentine’s Day on their campus. The decision has not gone down well with many students, who on condition of anonymity, said that they should be allowed to celebrate the day like any other event. 

 Terming the decision retrograde, they called upon college authorities and   to ensure the safety of students who celebrate Valentine’s Day.
 
 Colleges in the city are keeping a tab on students to ensure that no celebrations take place on the campus. Many college principals told TOI that they will not encourage Valentine’s Day celebrations on the campus. They said that nobody will be allowed to exchange roses or gifts in the college. D V Honagannavar, principal,  ,  , said: “We will not allow any student on our campus to celebrate V-Day. We have already told students to refrain from organizing any event related to V-day on the campus. Anyone, who doesn’t follow our instruction, will have to face action from the management.”
 
 Many colleges admitted that the ban was necessitated to avoid the wrath of some organization, who barge into colleges, vandalized classrooms and thrash students celebrating Valentine’s Day. Ashok Shettar, vice-chancellor,  , Hubballi, said, “We don’t interfere with the personal lives of our students. If they want to celebrate, they can do so outside the campus.”
 
 Preeti S Hunagudi, principal,  , too, offered the same reaction. “We are not encouraging such activities on the campus,” he said.
 
 P H Rane, police commissioner, Hubballi-Dharwad, promised adequate security on the day. “We will depute enough policemen in parks, gardens, colleges and other places to track down on elements trying to create disturbance over Valentine’s Day celebrations. Officers have also been told increase patrolling at such spots. We will take stern action against those who try to disturb people during V-Day,” said Rane.
 
 Many colleges had banned Valentine’s Day celebrations the previous year as well.
 
 
