THANJAVUR: Endorsing the claims of farmers that their crops had withered due to drought, state agriculture minister  , gave his assurance here on Saturday that the kin of the deceased farmers would get compensation and those that suffered losses would get crop insurance money.

 Heading the high-level committee comprising transport commissioner Satyabrata Sahoo, Thanjavur district collector A Annadurai and elected representatives, Duraikannu enquired about the plight of farmers in Pudhupattinam.
 
 "The late chief minister had introduced the samba and kuruvai packages for farmers. The state has witnessed such unprecedented drought after her death. Action has been taken on a war footing to help distressed farmers. After discussing the issue with the chief minister on January 10, some measures would definitely be taken to compensate farmers for their losses," Duraikannu told reporters.
 
 The high-level teams comprising ministers and bureaucrats visited Thanjavur, Perambaur, Ariyalur and Karur districts to assess the crop damage on Saturday.
 
 Thanjavur, once considered to be the rice-bowl of Tamil Nadu, remained one of the districts witnessing the deaths of farmers either due to stress following the failure of crop or suicide. Going by the claims of the farmers' associations, around 130 farmers have dead in the state in the past one month, unable to bear crop loss.
 
 A team led by tourism minister Vellamandi N Natarajan, principal secretary, municipal administration and water supply department Phaninder Reddy, district collector K Nandhakumar and elected representatives visited the drought hit areas in Ariyalur and Perambalur districts which also witnessed the deaths of a few farmers. 
 
 In Perambalur, the team assessed the withered crops of corn, cotton, small onion in Pommanappadi, Kaarai and Chathiramanai respectively. Natarajan said that crops across 70,649 acres had been affected in Perambalur. A detailed report in this connection will be submitted to the government. However, he said it would not be possible to declare the entire state as drought-hit. "The ground reality would be assessed and proper compensation would be provided," he said.
 
 Another team headed by backward and minorities welfare minister S Valarmathi, principal secretary and managing director Tamil Nadu slum clearance board Shambu Kallolikar and Ariyalur district collector A Saravanavelraj, visited damaged paddy crops in Idankanni, Madhanathur, Udaiyavattheeyanur and corn field in Ottakovil villages. 
 
 In Karur, a team comprising transport minister MR Vijayabaskar, drought monitoring officer Kakarla Usha, district collector G Govindaraj and MLAs visited Nallipalayam, Thalinji, Kaaniyalampatti, Velliyanai areas. 
 
 Minister Vijayabaskar said that Tamil Nadu had received only 30% of monsoon rainfall leaving farmers in the lurch.
 
 The high level team is expected to visit Tiruvarur district on Sunday. 
 
