BHOPAL: The Indian parliament represents true democracy as there is a strong feeling about social welfare and community development through public motivated discussions, observed the members of   in Legislative Drafting, who visited state assembly under the   and Training (BPST), New Delhi on Tuesday.

 The 40-member delegation of foreign parliamentary and government officials comprising students from 27 countries arrived here to pursue the four-week course in legislative drafting for the individual experience.
 
 “I was overwhelmed to visit Madhya Pradesh assembly as we have been travelling all the way from New Delhi to get a know-how of legislative interactions in states. We met the Speaker and leader of opposition and were delighted to know that matters related to public were discussed, solved and decided in a legal, democratic manner,” Dr Matyas Modos, senior legal adviser, Office of the Hungarian National Assembly told TOI. 
 
 The programme conducted by BPST since 1985, consists of lectures and interactive sessions with senior parliamentarian and legal experts. It also helps the participants improve their drafting skills through drafting session and drafting exercises under the supervision of course director. 
 
 “Group discussions were also held in realm of law and legislation, participants get a chance to present country paper, witness the Parliament at work, visit legislative department of the  , branches of Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha secretariats and deal with legislative business'', said a senior official of BPST.
 
 The bureau also arranges visit of participants to Supreme Court of India, high courts, election commission, faculty of law in University of Delhi and important institutions in the field of law.
 
 “It’s very much encouraging and learning. I have visited India first time and hope to visit the legislative assemblies and Parliament during my tour. When I return and draft laws, I will hopefully be able to draw from these experiences and try to make a difference to my country’s laws,” said Abdoulaye Ahmed, director, National Assembly of Niger (West Africa).
 
 Assembly Speaker Sitasaran Sharma and LoP Ajay Singh met the members and explained the proceedings of the house.
 
 ``Overall, it’s been a fantastic experience,” observed Ahmed echoing the sentiments of all the other attendees.
 
