NAGPUR: “Since the time of Independence, leaders are forming parties with a mission of generating employment and eradicating poverty, but the dream remains unfulfilled,” Union minister   said.

 “We are a rich nation with a poor population and we can blame wrong economic policies, corrupt governance and visionless leadership for this,” the minister added.
 
 He was speaking during the launch of India’s most automated high speed Cross Belt Sortation Technology set up at National Distribution Centre of Future Supply Chain Solutions Ltd, at Mihan on Saturday.
 
 Being the city’s representative in parliament, Gadkari urged the CEO of  ,  , to provide job opportunities to the youth of Vidarbha. He said, “My aim is to make sure that at least 50,000 youngsters get employment during my reign of five years.”
 
 Popularly known as the founder of  , Biyani said, “The distribution centre will be a milestone in Indian warehousing sector. With brilliant technology used in the sorting system at the DC along with individually coordinated system solutions, we can ensure highest level of service to consumers of the nation.”
 
 Biyani also said this new technique will bring down the cost of production. He said, “The system will make it India’s first ever ‘GST ready’ distribution centre. It will enhance the transportation and logistics industry while accommodating upcoming tax reforms to help India emerge as one of the global leaders in the logistic world.”
 
 The Union minister said, “We aren’t competitive in the international market owing to our logistic cost, which is presently 18%, higher than China and other European countries.”
 
 The centre has been developed by  , headquartered in Germany, while adhering to the Make In India concept, since most of the project supply and execution has been done by the company’s branch in India.
 
 The cross belt tray sorter has a 12m-high spiral conveyor, which is the tallest in the country.
 
 Gadkari said, “Government officials should not pose inconvenience for the investors and help in fast execution of the process, before they change their mind. This plays a major role in increasing employment potential.”
 
 Cursing former chief ministers, the minister said, “Big shot stakeholders dropped the idea of setting up companies at Mihan because there was excessive delay in granting permissions and other paperwork which had hit Vidarbha hard financially.”
 
