CHENNAI: A squabbling couple on a motorbike on the   road in the night of October 18 came close to inadvertently saving   from   bullets, says Veerappan hunter K   in his upcoming.

 The couple, arguing loudly, entered the scene five minutes before the fake ambulance (codenamed cocoon) carrying the Veerappan gang was to arrive at the designated ambush spot, forcing teams to abandon bunker-building and switch off gadgets tracking the target vehicle.
 
 Superintendent of police N K Senthamaraikannan, after receiving a radio message, had alerted the ambush team that cocoon will be reaching the spot in ten minutes. Hardly five minutes later came the sound of a vehicle. While the teams took cover wondering how it reached so fast, an old motorcycle sputtered into their view.“A couple were sitting on it,“ says Vijay Kumar, “involved in what seemed to be a heated argument.“
 
 One of the teams, building a bunker with sandbags, had to abandon the job. A tech team, seated in a sugarcane lorry (codenamed sweet box) parked in the middle of the road, had to switch off their gadgets so the couple wouldn't see their glow.“The last thing we needed was the couple to be still there when the ambulance tur ned up.Thankfully , they gradually faded from sight,“ says the book. As soon as the motorbike moved away , the teams got back to work, one building the bunker, the other re connecting gadgets, and within three minutes they were in position, their guns aiming the designated parking space for cocoon.
 
 STF driver Saravanan was behind the wheel, and Vel laidurai, an officer brought from Chennai, was acting as the messenger of a certain Mr X, “a prosperous man with a reputation of being an upstanding citi zen“ who Veerappan trusted.
 
 Reaching the spot, Sara vanan slammed the brakes of the van which bore the name SKS Hospital, Salem (in the haste of repainting the STF van into the ambulance, someone had misspelled the word `Salem' as `Selam' on one side of the vehicle). He switched on lights in the rear cabin where Veerap pan and his three associates were sitting and ran out with Vellaidurai who had by then unpinned a stun grenade kept in a secret chamber under his seat in the van. In four seconds, the grenade went off, and Senthamaraikannan asked, through a megaphone, the gang to surrender.
 
 Vijay Kumar says the announcement was greeted by a round of AK-47 fire from the van.“Brass hosed down on Cocoon from every direction,“ says the author. The STF teams emptied 338 bullet shells in 20 minutes.Veerappan took three of them, one through his left eye. His aides Govindan, Sethumani and Chandra Gowda also fell to bullets.
 
 After STF men pulled wounded gang members out of the van, the officer says, he hobbled over, ignoring a cramped muscle. “It was my only face-to-face moment with Veerappan, if it could be described as such. He was unable to speak and clearly dying.“
 
 
 
 
 Sometime in June 2001, K Vijay Kumar, then IG (operations) of BSF, was in a meeting in North Block after an ambush that killed 15 BSF jawans when a junior officer came with the message that there was an urgent call for him.Stepping out, he took the call. It was Tamil Nadu chief minister J Jayalalithaa.
 
 She said she wanted him to head the Tamil Nadu STF since the sandalwood smuggler problem had gone too far.Throughout her stint in the opposition, Kumar notes, Jayalalithaa had charged the DMK government with being soft on the brigand. Kumar said it would be an honour.
 
 Three years and four months later, on October 18, close to midnight after gunning down Veerappan, Kumar's first call was to Jayalalithaa. “The CM has retired for the night. Is it urgent?“ Kumar recalls CM's secretary Sheela Balakrishnan telling him.
 
 He replied: “I think she will like what I have to say.“ When Jayalalithaa came on the line, the STF chief said: “It's done, ma'am.“
 
 Then he summarised the ambush.
 
 Congratulating Kumar and his team, the CM said: “This is the best news I've ever had as CM.“
 
