MUMBAI: “We went door to door before the polls and compiled a list of the actual number of voters from the building so that today the security manager can call the residents every two hours to check and remind them that they need to come out and vote,” said Parag Udani, chairman of Cuffe Parade’s  . 

 Perhaps it is such zealousness that led to a high   turnout of the urban elite at the upscale Cuffe Parade. Early estimates show that voter   in this locality crossed 50%, in stark contrast to the previous years. In the 2012 civic election, voter turnout for the entire A-Ward, not just  , was just 35%. One of the reasons why the well-heeled were so mindful of their civic duty is because housing   took up the challenge of getting their residents to the polling booth.
 
 To ensure that no potential voter succumbed to the holiday languor, security personnel at not just Venus Society but even Sunflower Apartments were assigned the role of alarm clock. 
 
 Although attendance was lean in the early hours, enthusiasm was palpable by mid-morning in this neighbourhood. “It’s not even noon and already 78 out of 109 have cast their vote at the Sunflower Apartment while around 65 out of 150 residents have voted from Venus,” he added. 
 
 Outside the polling station at Sunflower Apartments, 48-year-old Atul Zaveri was asking everyone with an inked finger to be part of a photo op, which he planned to upload hoping it would encourage others to vote. “I’ve been telling friends, family and even strangers to exercise their right to vote,” he said. “If you don’t, you can’t afford to complain.” His eight-year-old daughter and nine-year-old son tagged along to see democracy at work. “I wanted to inculcate in them the good habit of choosing someone to represent you.” 
 
 Zaveri’s ad hoc conversations with neighbours seemed to have paid off.   was so inspired that he personally went flat to flat in his society urging residents to vote.
 
 Taking stock of the poor voting percentage in the previous years, residents of the area were also served a rare treat—a free shuttle cab service to ferry them from their apartments to the polling booth followed by tea and biscuits. That apart, a help desk was set up at some of the buildings to assist residents in reading their voter slip and to guide them to voting booths.
 
 In Jolly Maker 3, the secretary came up with a scheme whereby those with inked fingers would get 50% off the next time they serviced their car.
 
 It was perhaps a desire for change that brought dutiful citizens to the polling booths in droves too. 
 
 Sulakshana Chowgule, former vice-president,   was there with a mandate. “There are three major issues that need immediate attention—security in terms of people entering from the seaside, garbage disposal and traffic control.”
 
