NEW DELHI: The separatist camp in Kashmir has decided to cancel the routine Friday protest in the valley this week as it falls on the festival day of Mahashivratri, as TOI reported this morning.

 The separatist camp comprises Syed Ali Geelani, Mirwaiz   and Muhammad Yasin Malik.
 
 "Hindu festival Shivratri falls on the same date so joint leadership (separatist camp) has decided to cancel the protest call," the Syed Ali Shah Geelani-led Hurriyat spokesperson Ayaz Akbar told TOI today.
 
 "We weren't aware that the Shivratri festival falls on (the) coming Friday (February 24). But when the issue was reported, we took the matter as urgent and started working on it," Akbar told TOI earlier.
 
 That's why an earlier calendar last week scheduled the protests on February 24. 
 
 "We have time still. We have taken note and will reschedule protest soon," he added.
 
 Meanwhile, other constituent parties, including the Mirwaiz Umar Farooq-led Hurriyat, also expressed their concern over the protest date coinciding with the Hindu festival. They too have extended support to the Hindu community in the state.
 
 "The issue is under consideration and new date will be announced soon," the Mirwaiz Umar Farooq-led Hurriyat spokesperson Shahid-ul-Islam told TOI. 
 
 "We haven't issued any bandh on the date", he added.
 
 The Jammu and Kashmir Police, while issuing advisories to ensure peaceful celebration of the Mahashivratri, appealed to the people of Jammu region to cooperate in maintaining security.
 
 While directing police personnel deployed to remain extra vigilant, a senior police official asked them to perform regular foot patrolling all day and night.
 
 Police have also asked people to cooperate at frisking points and not complain about "harassment".
 
 "The people have been asked to remain vigilant while travelling in passenger vehicles (or in) crowded areas (especially the places of worship)," the senior police officer said.
 
 He added that people have been asked to not touch any abandoned objects and to inform police if they see any suspicious persons or objects.
 
 "If you have any information about any anti-national, anti-social elements (who can disturb the holy occasion of Shivratri) please inform the police immediately. Identity of informant shall be kept confidential," he said.
 
 Mahashivratri is a Hindu festival celebrated annually in honour of the god Shiva. Shivratri occurs every luni-solar month of the Hindu calendar, on the month's 13th night /14th day and once a year in late winter (February/March) and before the arrival of spring. 
 
 
