KOLKATA:   - a model in 19th-century university-town planning - is now a lesson in the classrooms of  , US (MIT). Students from MIT are studying Tagore's unique concept, how the university influences the environs and economy of the place, even outside the   and how, with time, unchecked growth outside the campus is adversely affecting its character.

 The credit course is being taught at MIT in collaboration with  .
 
 The idea is to turn at least a slice of Bolpur, outside the campus, into a signature township that will bear the imprint of Visva-Bharati in every nook and corner. The idea germinated from a project that the architecture and town planning faculty of IIT-Kgp did for the state urban development department in trying to identify areas of preservation for areas imme diately outside the campus, including the Khoai, which has been identified as ecologically endangered.
 
 Armed with this land use control pattern report,   , the head of the project, collaborated with MIT professors Bish Sa nyal and Arindam Dutta to start a collaborative course spanning a whole year that will end in May. The credit course has been christened 'Triple Bottom Line Approach for a Sustainable Heritage City'. "Santiniketan is a world-class example and though we are initiating it, many more foreign universities should study the relevance of this 19th-century town planning marvel even today," said Sanyal, who the Ford International Professor of Urban Studies at MIT. "The three key areas of research are urban design and heritage, creative economy, and environment," Chattopadhyay added.
 
 For many, Santiniketan represents the epitome of an older, nationalist imagery of cultural pastoralism, a pastoralism that defined the arts with an emphasis on the rural and the agrarian as the primary scene, from which a modern economy would emerge. This region in Bolpur district is the hub of the Bengali elite. Today, both the rural and the pastoral imagery that celebrated it are in danger from unbridled urbanization all around it, reads the introduction to the MITIIT project.
 
 The team, comprising 15 students from MIT and 12 from IIT-Kgp, led by their respective faculty members, has studied the architectural significance of Visva-Bharati and are coming up with a plan of how these imprints could now move on to a catchment area of Bolpur. This would then be developed into a showpiece or model township for visitors. The haphazard growth outside the campus, which has no connect with the essential spirit of VisvaBharati, will also be addressed in the plan that is being drawn up. IIT-Kgp has liaised with Visva-Bharati and the state urban development department, and will share the plan with them on completion so that additions and alterations can be considered. “We have the example of Shakespeare's birthplace, Strat ford-upon-Avon, before us.The entire town has been designed keeping the bard's house as the fulcrum. Even bank ATMs or the sandwich outlet is in sync with the design. We want to create that effect here,“ Chattopadhyay said.
 
 A large part of the exploration and conservation plan will centre around the Khoai.The natural canyon-like formations caused by the effect of wind and water erosion on red laterite soil are part of the country's natural heritage and need immediate attention.
 
 
