BIJNOR: Farmers growing flowers and   (floriculture) are happy lot these days as the demand for their produce has shot up despite demonetisation with the canvassing for the   on February 11 going full throttle.
 
  Normally, too, the demand of flowers and decorative plants starts picking after the   (an inauspicious month in Hindus) when the wedding season sets in. However, whenever elections come — irrespective of time, season and month — they give a silver lining to the floral industry as the demand goes up exponentially in the wake of increasing number of political rallies by parties and candidates, say farmers.
  
  Due to demonetisation of higher currency notes, the floral industry too saw a downturn, but things seem better now.
  
  Divan Chand, florist and broker at the Ghazipur flower mandi in Delhi, said, “Farmers from Kannauj, Bijnor, Muzaffarnagar, Shamli, Agra, Hapur and Dehradun bring their flowers to the mandi. Flowers’ prices have seen a quantum jump in the last few days as the demand has shot off by 20%, and it is understood that the prices would remain high till June end.”
  
  “Earlier, gladiolus was being sold for Rs 50 per bunch (24 stems), but now it is Rs 110. Similarly, gerbera price has shot up from Rs 10 to Rs 25 per kg, while marigold’s price too increased from Rs 5 to Rs 25. There several reasons for this quantum jump — first, it’s a poll season and political parties use flowers to decorate the stage and garlands; second, marriage season is approaching, so there is a huge demand and we are receiving orders from difference places,” he added.
  
  “Flowers are in full bloom during January-March, and various political parties in the region have already procured and booked large quantity of flower. As the campaigning gets more aggressive, the sale will rise too,” said Mukesh, a flowers grower from Ahraula village.
  
  According to the  , farmers mostly grow gladiolus, different varieties of roses, marigold, gerbera, etc., whereas most of the farming takes place in Jaleelpur, Ahraula village, Bagadpur, Hirnakhedi (Amroha), Harewali village of Najibabad tehsil and at least four farmers grow flowers in poly-houses as well.
  
  District horticulture inspector Narpal Malik told TOI, “This is a money-spinning season for the flower growers, who have got huge opportunities to sell their produce. They are hopeful of increasing flower prices. However, last month, demonetisation had shaked the market, which is easing now.”
  
  Mukesh further said, “Last month, gladiolus was being sold for Rs 120 per bunch, but due to demonetisation, the flower market too saw a slump and I had to sold gladiolus for Rs 40 per bunch. However, the price has again reached to Rs100 per bunch which, I hope, will go up further.”
  
  “Besides elections, there are several opportunities before flower growers to sell there produce, including marriage Valentine’s Day. At Ghazipur market, I earned Rs 40,000 to Rs. 50,000 per bigha. But, this season I hope to increase my earning despite of demonetisation,” he added.
  
  Giving further details, Himansu Tyagi, another florist from Hrewali village, said, “I grow some varieties of roses in poly-house. In all, I grow flowers over five bighas and sell them in Lucknow, Delhi and Dehradun markets. Last year, I had sold a rose at Rs 7, and now, it is again being sold at Rs 7. The moot point is that markets are surviving as per expectations in spite of demonetisation. I hope that prices will soar during Valentine’s Day, marriage season and polling. I am supplying 1600 roses per day. The demand is increasing gradually. On the other side, marigold is being sold at Rs 30 per kg.”
