Whenever one hears the word ‘shopping' in the  , one usually thinks of heading to malls and spending a bomb on expensive clothes and accessories. While some shopaholics might head to Janpath or Sarojini on rare occasions, there’s no denying the fact that the distance travelled and time spent isn’t worth the moolah they intended to save. But it turns out, that Gurgaon, much like Delhi, also has its own market like Janpath or Sarojini. Tucked in a residential area,   Phase I, the   is a small export market, a hub of all the popular brands for the brand-conscious Gurgaonwallahs. It offers affordable winter wear, including some stylish pyjamas, boots and jackets at surprisingly low prices.

 
  
  The prices for jackets for men start from `1,500 and go up to `2,500, while sweatshirts are easily available at prices starting from `650 to `750 (BCCL)
 
 
 
 
 According to the shopkeepers here, this export market does not have copied designs. These are the actual designs of the shipments that were either cancelled or were in surplus, they say. Arvind Singh, one of the shopkeepers, says, "These are not copied designs. We sell them keeping in mind the kind of designs people here prefer to buy. Yahan woh samaan aata hai jo export se shipment cancel ho jaati hai ya agar koi brand ka logo thoda sa bhi galat ban jaata hai." He adds, "If you look around in the market, you can get almost all the designs. You cannot compare this to any flea market because of the difference in design and quality."
 
  
 
  Although the 'high-end' products sold here are very economical, shopaholics are also able to bargain easily, just like in any other market. Track pants from H&M, Marks and Spencer and Superdry start from `350 and the price goes up till `780. "Do hafte pehle tak, people were not coming to the market to buy winter wear. Par ab jab se thand bhadh gayi hai, log aa rahe hain aur achhe se shopping bhi kar rahe hain," says Raju Negi, a shopkeeper. 
 
  The prices for jackets for men start from `1,500 and go up to `2,500, while sweatshirts are easily available at prices starting from `650 to `750. "The market is popular because of the affordable prices. Gurgaonwallon ke liye ye prices zyada nahi hain, tabhi log aate hain yahan shopping karne. Brand bhi mil jaata hai, aur sasta bhi hota hai," says Satpal Kumar, another shopkeeper. 
 
  
  The high and medium-length boots are sold for `1,200 (BCCL)
 
  
 
  Though the market does not offer a lot of women wear, one thing that you surely can’t miss is the variety of boots starting from `1,200. One can pick from high and medium-length branded leather boots and shoes from brands like Wrangler and Apepazza. "The boots start from `1,200 and the prices go up till `1,850. Winters mein sabse zyada high leather boots bikte hain. Aap bahar se lo toh ye kam se kam `6,000 se `7,000 ke milenge, par yahan `2,000 se bhi kam mein mil rahe hain, toh log bahut lete hain," says Ajay, a worker at a shop. Mona Bhatia, a customer who lives in Sushant Lok 1, says, "I often come here to shop, not only for shoes, but for other things as well. The market can offer a lot at prices which one might not find anywhere in Gurgaon."
 
 
