BENGALURU: The   on Monday suggested that BBMP devise a technological solution to deal with complaints on illegal constructions in the city.

 “Why can’t you use a software for this? You are sitting in the   of India. Why can’t you hire the services of software professionals,” Justice   asked BBMP commissioner N Manjunath Prasad.
 
 The judge noted the new system should be accessible to both BBMP officers and citizens. He also suggested that the commissioner set up a settlement committee to handle disputes.
 
 The commissioner agreed and said the civic body will strive to evolve a process to deal with illegal constructions at the earliest. He told the court the agency will have an online system in place by four months for various issues relating to khatas — transfer, bifurcation and amalgamation. He added the Palike will offer a separate online service regarding building plan approvals.
 
 Take action under other laws
 
 Admitting to the negligence on the part of officials, the BBMP chief explained the court that lack of punitive powers under the   (KMC) Act is preventing him from taking action against them. The judge suggested the commissioner to apply the clauses available under general laws (IPC, CrPC) to punish non-performing officials. The court advised the commissioner to conduct a workshop to train officials on administrative law.
 
 Noting that the lack of response from the administration would erode the public’s trust, the judge asked the commissioner not to let Bengaluru, which is famous for many reasons, slip to the level of Patna, known for its poor administration. 
 
 BBMP seems to be in coma
 
 On February 15, HC had passed an order seeking the BBMP commissioner’s presence in court. It had said it was flooded with a large number of petitions, in which people had requested the civic body to take action against unauthorized constructions or seek commencement/occupancy certificates from them.
 
 “But despite the submission of such representations, BBMP seems to be in coma. For, it refuses to react to the representations and take the necessary action. The court is inundated with petitions which needn’t be filed if BBMP is efficient,” the court had observed.
 
 The court was hearing a petition filed by  , seeking a direction to consider their representation dated January 3, 2017 to issue a partial occupancy certificate for blocks 3C and 3D of a structure they had built in Rajajinagar after depositing Rs 70.40 lakh as per the civic body’s direction.
 
