BENGALURU:  's one-time 'Batman'   returned to haunt his former club as   asserted their   supremacy with a crushing 3-1 win over the defending champions on Saturday night. Robin's double blow in the second half at the Sree Kanteerava Stadium here has now almost extinguished Bengaluru's hopes of defending their title.

 Exposing the Blues' three-man defence and the absence of injured stars - defender John Johnson and goalkeeper Amrinder Singh - the Red and Gold brigade put all hopes of the vociferous home fans to rest in less than an hour as they pumped in three goals without any reply.
 
 After Haitian Wedson Anselme put Bengal ahead in the 23rd minute, Robin struck in the 54th and 59th minutes, braving the torrent of abuse from the West Block supporters and stunning them into silence. Despite staring down the barrel, the Blues put up a stiff fight and reduced the margin in the 85th minute through CK Vineeth.
 
 It was Bengaluru's third defeat in 10 matches and their winless run now extends to seven games. The champions remain in fifth place with 13 points while East Bengal retained their top spot with 24 points from 11 games.
 
 The visitors took the lead 23 minutes into the game and in emphatic fashion when midfielder Anselme drove in through the middle and scored with a scorching left-footer. The move began when Ugandan defender Ivan Bukenya found Anselme lurking in the rival territory. The Haitian then set off into the Bengaluru box, quickly changing gears into overdrive, where he had to get past defender  . Showing great touch, Anselme danced past the Spaniard and scored with a curling shot that beat Bengaluru's reserve goalie Arindam Bhattacharya all ends up.
 
 The home team returned strong from the break, searching for the equalizer, but once again it was East Bengal who seized control.   had a great chance to restore parity for Bengaluru but the substitute striker missed from close after Udanta Singh and Sunil Chhetri worked the ball into the box.
 
 It was a costly miss and Robin - later named player of the match - made the hosts pay dearly from a swift counterattack. The towering forward latched onto a cross from skipper Robert Lalthlamuana and headed it in comfortably in the 54th minute. The former Bengaluru striker, who helped the side to their first title, completed his brace five minutes later to put the match further away from the hosts.
 
 "They punished us at the worst moment when we were looking good," Bengaluru FC coach Albert Roca said, adding that "we had doubts in our minds and it showed." Asked about the three-man defence, the coach said in hindsight, the tactic appears to have misfired.
 
 Bengaluru tried their best to get back into the match, including in six minutes of added time, but they had nothing to show except for Vineeth's goal. The exciting encounter almost ended with acrimonious scenes when East Bengal midfielder Mehtab Hossain went to the Bengaluru bench and celebrated his team's win. The Bengaluru dugout was soon all over Mehtab and for the next 30 seconds, players from both teams pushed and shoved each other before better sense prevailed.
 
 "It was important for us to show character. And the guys deserve to celebrate tonight after such a wonderful performance. Great goals and a top performance from everybody tonight," East Bengal coach   summed up his team's show.
 
 
 Bengaluru FC 1 (Vineeth 85) lost to East Bengal 3 (Wedson Anselme 23, Robin Singh 54, 59).
 
