AURANGABAD: The state power utility, which has intensified its ongoing recovery drive by snapping power supply of those who have not paid their dues, is taking the short-cut by not following the due procedure before undertaking such an action. 

 As per section 56 (1) of the Indian Electricity Act (IEA) 2003, it is mandatory for the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited ( ) to serve notice to consumer 15-day prior to disconnection. It may be noted that the   (NCDRC), an apex authority under the Consumer Protection Act (CPA), in 2014, had even rapped the state power utility for resorting to illegal practice of disconnecting power supply without issuing notice under the enabling sections of the said Act. 
 
 Speaking with ToI, a few affected consumers narrated their experiences. “A few MSEDCL staffers came to our house saying that our power connection will be cut if dues are not paid. I did not have money on me then and my son was also in company,” said middle aged woman, who did not wish to be named. 
 
 Nalini Beedkar, a resident of N-11 sector, said that the electricity at her place was cut when she was not in town. “Our dues for three months were pending as a toddler at our home had misplaced the last bill. It was wrong on our part to not pay the bill on time, but snapping power supply without any written intimation is unfair,” she said. 
 
 While the crackdown has been in full-swing in urban and rural limits with an aim to boost revenue, power utility has been accused of not following the law, it has been alleged. 
 
 The MSEDCL is undoubtedly violating key provisions of the Indian Electricity Act (IEA) 2003 by cutting power supply without serving written notice to its consumers. If such arbitrary crackdown is challenged in the court of law, the power utility would have to face serious consequences,” said Hemant Kapadiya, consumer representative on   (MERC). 
 
 Consumers who have not paid their electricity bills for three months and have dues more than Rs 1,000 have been on the radar of MSEDCL authorities during the ongoing drive. Power connection of as many as 2,349 consumers from Aurangabad and Jalna districts have been snapped temporarily so far with total outstanding dues amount to Rs 4.15 crore. On the other hand, power supply of another 259 consumers has been cut permanently for not paying bills amounting to Rs 61.95 lakh. The firm has also netted Rs 1.70 lakh from 2,671 consumers in the drive.
 
 When contacted,  , superintendent engineer associated with Aurangabad urban circle, said that some cases where power supply was disconnected without serving due notice could not be ruled out.
 
 “We are focussing on defaulters who are reluctant to pay since considerably long time. We have issued notices in some cases before cutting the power. The lower-level authorities and ground staff will be asked to ensure notices are served before any extreme action,” he said. 
 
