BENGALURU: Seeking to expedite various pending projects, including the controversial steel bridge, the Karnataka government has proposed to raise the   (TDR) limit to three times from the present 2.5 times the land or building surrendered by private property owners.

 TDR envisages permitting an additional floor area ratio (FAR) to owners of land/building acquired for road construction, widening, development of amenities, construction of housing for slum dwellers etc. Under the proposed formula, the person who relinquishes a 1,000sqm plot will get 3,000sqm of virtual space against it. This space can be sold at market rates.
 
 “We will table the   and Country Planning (Amendment) Bill, 2017, to enhance TDR from the 2.5 times the cost of land lost to three times the cost, in the ongoing legislature session, before coming out with a new attractive TDR policy,’’ Bengaluru development minister K J George said.
 
 George said the idea is to make TDR an attractive compensation tool for land acquisition and even better than the monetary compensation provided under the new Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013. As of now, the civic body acquires land in two ways -- either by paying the cost of land to land owners, or against TDR. Many landowners claim that present TDR rates are very low and land-holders do not agree to surrender their land to civic bodies like municipal corporations, municipalities or other government departments, against the TDR.
 
 It costs civic bodies crores of rupees if they have to acquire land by paying money under the Land Acquisition Act of 2013. Higher TDR helps civic bodies convince land owners to surrender their land. Moreover, civic bodies or government departments will also get land free of cost.
 
 The current TDR policy which offers 2.5 times compensation had few takers and many development projects got stuck owing to various reasons. To avoid a similar failure, the state government decided to increase the incentive so that development goes on in an effective manner. “It will be a win-win situation. Besides, we will be able to develop infrastructure to cater to the growing population’s demands,” said George.
 
 Moreover, he said since utilization of TDR has been linked to guidance value rates, the increase will ensure it’s on par with the market value of the property.
 
 “Due to the lower incentive, most of the owners on whose land reservation had been imposed were reluctant to hand over these reserved plots to the government or any other authority. In some cases, they even moved court against the state’s decision of acquisition. This complicated the whole thing and delayed the land acquisition procedure. By increasing TDR, we will motivate land owners to hand over the reserved plots for the development of amenities," George said.
 
 
