NEW DELHI: A 30-year-old traffic police constable was mowed down by a truck he was flagging down for speeding near Salimgarh bypass on Saturday morning. The truck driver fled from the spot, but police hope to apprehend him after going through the video footage captured by a police interceptor van stationed nearby.

 Garima Bhatnagar, joint commissioner (Traffic), said the accident took place at 6.55am when ASI Kanhaiya Lal and constables Binesh Kumar and Anand were stopping vehicles breaching the speed limit at a barricade at Salimgarh bypass. The police interceptor vehicle parked just a little distance away alerted them to a  , and Kumar stepped out to stop it.
 
 Instead of stopping, the truck driver overtook another vehicle, rammed the barricade and crashed into Kumar. Anand too suffered minor injuries while trying to prevent Kumar from being hit. Kumar’s colleagues said that he was thrown into the air on impact and landed on the back of his head, suffering severe fracture injuries. He was taken to   at Civil Lines, and later transferred to Max Hospital, where he succumbed to his injuries.
 
 The truck was carrying bricks, and possibly other illegal goods because of which the driver was afraid to stop. The two other cops pursued the truck, but failed to catch up with it. Officers at the Kotwali traffic circle alerted their counterparts posted along Ring Road, but the green-coloured truck could not be apprehended. It appeared to have driven towards GT Karnal Road.
 
 Perhaps because it was ferrying illegal goods, the truck driver had smeared mud on the licence plate to avoid detection. Police said that footage from cameras installed along the stretch is being scanned to identify the truck. They said that efforts were being made to track both the driver and the owner of the truck.
 
 “We have registered a case invoking Sections 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder), 186 (obstructing a public servant) and 353 (assault to deter a public servant) under IPC and also some provisions of the Motor Vehicles’ Act,” said Harendra K Singh, additional DCP (North). Several teams, including from the Special Staff and other specialised units, have been asked to help nab the truck driver.
 
 Sources say that the Kumar would be honoured for sacrificing his life in the line of duty on Sunday as per traffic police procedures. His family will receive compensation too.
 
