BIJNOR: Ever since UP chief minister   directed administrative officials of the state to be present in office at 9am for work, the senior bureaucrats have asked clerical and other staff to also report in at the same time, which has irked the latter so much that hundreds of them gathered under the banner of UP State Employees’ Federation to protest the order.
 
  Abhishek Ror, Bijnor district president of the federation said, “The 9am order is only for administrative heads and not for staff. Why are we being asked to come so early? This is sheer exploitation. If any clerk is harassed on this account there will be widespread agitation.”
  
  The state government has asked officials to reach their places of work by 9am for redressal of public grievances till 11am. District-level officers received this order on April 26 and they began sticking to 9am-6pm duty hours following surprise inspections. Now these officers have also instructed their staff to report by 9am, which has led to increasing confrontation between officers and other employees.
  
  In Bareilly on Friday, top officials discovered that almost 98% of employees across 16 departments were not present at 9am. Officials then ordered that the missing staff be marked as absent. A visibly agitated group of employees gathered in front of   and protested against the move and also raised slogans against the government. A delegation led by president of Vikas Bhawan Karmachari Kalyan Parishad Vivek Dubey gheraoed several officials and demanded to be shown the government order which specifies that staff need to be report in at 9am.
  
  On Saturday in Bijnor, hundreds of government employees led by Ror and president of Karamchaari Maha Sangh,  , raised slogans against the 9am order.
  
  “The order issued by the state government is only for certain officials, not for all employees. We can’t be forced to come to office at 9am. If we are forced, we will oppose it tooth and nail. We will also go on strike,” Ror added.
  
  Sharma said, “All the employees are united against the move. No one can force the employees to reach office before 10am. Nowhere in the rules is it written that we have to turn up for work at 9am.”
  
  Bijnor chief development officer Indramani Tripathi said, “It is very logical that when the officers reach the office at 9am, our main aim is to listen to people’s problems and redress them. It is possible only when the staff is around, as without staff we cannot give instructions. The main idea is to help the people.”
  
  Tripathi further maintained, “We have not given hard and fast rules to the employees. Our aim is that they should be a balance and harmony between the officers and employees. Only then, we can solve the problems of the people and fulfil the aim of the regime.”
  He further claimed, “Talks are going on between the employees and officers over this issue. We hope that we get rid of this problem soon.”
  
  (With inputs from Piyush Rai in Bareilly)
