KOLKATA: A part of childhood for an entire generation died on Monday as  , 52, better known by his ringname, the  , took off his gloves, dropped his black coat and black hat and walked slowly out of the ring, symbolically retiring from wrestling after his defeat at the WWE’s   33.

 For as long as professional wrestling is around, Undertaker has been the backbone of the World Wrestling Entertainment, an American publicly traded and privately controlled entertainment company that deals in wrestling.
 
 But Undertaker’s popularity is beyond barriers. No matter how many times he went away, how many times he was buried on screen and burnt to death on live TV, he would always come back — out of the darkness, rising from the ashes, digging himself out from 6 feet under. His entire character was a gimmick that he pulled it off brilliantly over the past 27 years. Dead Man Walking, the world would call him.
 
 “For us, as kids, he was the man who couldn’t die. It’s impossible to forget his chokeslams. It looked seemingly impossible to pull off, but he had us practicing that on our younger siblings all day long,” said Soumya Banerjee, 37, now a senior manager at a multinational audit and consulting company.
 
 Another senior software engineer said he used to try and roll his eyes into the head imitating him. “The wrestling business relates him to the devil as he had played a negative character for most part of his career. But for us he was nothing short of god. He did what he wanted to, beating legends like   and Yokozuna to current generation wrestlers like   and CM Punk.”
 
 But things changed on Monday as he lost to Roman Reigns, 31 years of age and just five years into the business. This was Undertaker’s second loss at Wrestlemania as he finished with an envious tally of 23 wins out of 25 appearances.
 
 The character was so popular that he even featured in a 1996 Akshay Kumar movie ‘Khiladiyon ke Khiladi’, but he was not Callaway but another actor named Brian Lee, who had played the character of ‘Imposter Undertaker’ at WWE.
 
 As the iconic bell sounded on Monday, Google Trends recorded him as the most searched topic in India, with Kolkata bagging the number three spot, next only to   and Delhi.
 
 
