HYDERABAD: The fate of thousands of   in the state continues to remain uncertain with the government showing no signs of conducting the  . This, after they qualified in the entrance exam.

 With the Supreme Court ordering a stay on the inclusion of 11 new BEd colleges, in the second phase of counselling,   claim that the situation is likely to worsen. 
 
 “We were hoping for a positive judgement, but considering it’s order on the inclusion of these colleges we have nowhere to go. It’s already February, it’s clear there will be no second phase of counselling,” said  , president, Telangana BEd, DEd colleges.
 
 “Now we are only hoping that the higher education council approves B category (management) seats. If not, it will be very difficult for us to run colleges. We don’t know what will be the fate of students and colleges,” he said, sharing his concern over the failed talks with the Telangana State Council of Higher Education (TSCHE), on Friday, on this issue. 
 
 The second phase of counselling was initially scheduled to take place in the fourth week of July 2016. While it was later pushed to October 3, 2016, it did not happen even then. The process was cancelled after 11 new colleges, approved by National Council for Teacher Education (NCTE), went to high court as the government refused to include them in the counselling process. Though the HC directed the TSCHE and convener of EdCET 2016 to conduct counselling and also include these 11 colleges in the list, the government failed to do so. The students, subsequently, filed a contempt of court. 
 
 The legal battle continued as the Telangana government went to SC against the inclusion of new colleges. On Friday, SC ordered a stay on judgement. 
 
 While colleges urged the government to at least release the notification of EdCET 2017 and appoint a convener, to address their woes for this academic year, the EdCET 2016 convener said that it was not possible. “Unless all the cases are cleared, we can’t say anything about EdCET 2016 or 2017,” said Prasad Padala, the convener of Telangana EdCET.
 
