KOLKATA: Many of the   vends along Bengal’s   continued to sell their wares with impunity in obvious violation of the   mandate banning the sale of liquor within 500 metres of high-ways, even as various gove-rnment agencies, too,continued to turn a blind eye to the phenomenon.

 On its part, the state excise department — the law enforcing body — cancelled the transport IDs of liquor shops along the National Highways effective April 1, the day the Supreme Court ban came into force. The cancellation takes away the vendor’s licence to procure fresh stocks. However, the official directive from the excise department to the vendors doesn’t make any mention of this. It only directs them to relocate their shops as specified by the apex court. 
 
 The ambiguity led to mixed reactions at the grassroots: most liquor vends from Dankuni to West Burdwan remained open on Saturday while many along Panagarh to Barakar remained shut. Some shops along the   stretch of NH6 and some others along Diamond Harbour Road, Jessore Road continued with the sale on the plea that they were clearing old stock. Some big bars said they had already started shifting operations while the smaller ones complained that they had no option but to quit the trade. 
 
 “The cancellation of transport IDs is no plea to escape contempt. It’s good that the state excise department has done this. But what has the department done about the old stocks? It should have seized these if it was serious about the court order,” senior high court lawyer Bik-ash Bhattacharya said.
 
 According to the liquor vendors, the excise department wants them to relocate between April 10 and April 14. “We were verbally instructed to liquidate the existing stocks by April 10 in some areas and April 14 in other areas,” said a liquor shop owner in Hooghly. However, excise sources claimed the department had asked all shopowners to relocate as per the SC directive. “We have told liquor shop and bar owners to inform us whether or not they can shift,” said the excise department sources. 
 
 But liquor vendors wondered how they could relocate within such a short period of time. “We have to identify the land, which in most cases will be agricultural land, purchase it and get it mutated before shifting. Is all this possible in less than a week,” asked a liquor shopowner said. The vendors have appealed to the excise department for more time. 
 
 The owner of a popular bar and restaurant between Dankuni and Singur said he expects to clear the existing stock by April 10. However, a   restaurant owner, who reopened the bar on Friday following rumours of some sort of an intervention from the President’s office, downed shutters on Saturday. “We have land and would like to shift as per rule,” he said. 
 
 Those having liquor shops elsewhere complain that a section of liquor vendors along National Highways is flouting the apex court order in collusion with some excise officials and police.
 
