NEW DELHI: Lieutenant governor Anil Baijal, along with three municipal commissioners, inspected Bhalswa   site on Saturday morning and directed them to take immediate measures to tackle problems like regular   due to methane emission.

 Despite two active waste-to-energy plants, scientific management of trash has not been fully achieved in the city due to lack of segregation of waste at source. Baijal directed the corporations to use modern technologies to resolve the problems at the earliest.
 
 He said efficient solid waste management strategies needed to be implemented and municipalities should work in coordination with Delhi Pollution Control Committee. Landfill fires are among the factors contributing to the highly toxic air in the capital.
 
 The   has called a special meeting on Tuesday with the three municipal commissioners and asked them to give a presentation on their preparations to resolve landfill issues.
 
 The 40-acre dump-yard, which was commissioned in 1994, had reached its saturation point years ago, but the north civic body continues to use it due to non-availability of land. 
 
 P K Gupta, commissioner of the north corporation, said that four bulldozers had been deployed at the Bhalswa landfill to cover the garbage with construction waste and soil to curb incidence of fires.
 
 He informed that a plan was being prepared for setting up of a separate waste-to-energy plant at Bhalswa. “From the fund we have received under Swachh Bharat Abhiyan, we are preparing an action plan to install a separate waste-to-energy plant at the Bhalswa landfill site. This will take some time but we are constantly trying to escalate the work,” said Gupta.
 
 The commissioner said the corporation was in talks with National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) to utilise garbage in road-widening and construction projects. “NHAI has already signed an agreement with the east corporation and we will follow suit soon. Once, this agreement is signed, 70% of the total garbage will be utilised in road-widening and construction projects. A fund of Rs 40 crore has been allocated for redevelopment of the landfill site,” added Gupta.
 
 
