KOLKATA: Commuters had a harrowing afternoon for the fourth day in a row on Thursday as several roads in north Kolkata and the city centre were shut down following BJP's “Lalbazar Abhijan“.

 From Brabourne Road in north till J L Nehru Road in south, people were stuck in traffic jam for close to two hours between 1pm and 3.30pm as cops closed down several key roads and made scores of diversions that kept commuters on the road.
 
 Swapan Banerjee, a resident of Behala, had taken an air-conditioned bus from Howrah at 1pm and it took him an hour to reach M G Road cros sing, barely a km away . “The bus was then turned towards CR Avenue and when it reached there we saw a car was on fire and people demolishing two other police cars. It was scary, cops were chasing protesters and some even tried to get on our bus but the driver did not open the door. The protesters banged at the glass doors and tried to break it till cops caught them,“ said Banerjee, who finally reached his home around 4.30pm, two and half hours late than usual.
 
 Brabourne Road, CR Avenue, Bentinck Street, Phears Lane, Colootolla Street, J L Nehru Road, G C Avenue, R N Mukherjee Road, Old Court House Street, Canning Street, Rabindra Sarani, Vivekananda Road, M G Road and College Street were some of the roads where commuters suffered a lot on Thursday. Manasi Chatterjee, a resident of Taltala, had come to the CESC office on Bentinck street to pay the electricity bill when the clash began and the officials closed the collapsible gate. “I had just stepped out of the bank when I heard the sound of a bomb blast. I rushed inside and then cops closed the gate. I don't know when I will be able to return home,“ she said, trapped inside the bank.
 
 Manilal Jain, 63, who had to catch a train from Howrah station was found walking with his wife and two relatives on C R Avenue around 2pm.“There is no transport available but we have to reach the station. Why don't these political parties think about us while organising such protest rallies?“ asked Jain.
 
