BHUBANESWAR: In the wake of the startling revelation by  , chief of   (AT) Group chit fund company, about the alleged involvement of two ministers in the  , the police are jittery and not leaving anything to chance. In an apparent bid to prevent recurrence of such embarrassing moments for the BJD, the commissionerate police asked the jail authorities here to produce the accused in court via video-conference.

 "We have written to all the courts in Bhubaneswar and Jharpada special jail, requesting them to produce all undertrials before judges through video-conference," DCP Satyabrata Bhoi told TOI. When asked about what prompted the action, Bhoi said the proposed move will save time and ease manpower scarcity.
 
 Sethy's recent reaction before the media outside the court had created a flutter in the BJD. On January 30, Sethy had said two ministers had taken financial benefits from him to support his business, leaving the ruling BJD in a spot. However, Sethy had not named any minister. On February 2, the police vented ire on two constables and suspended them for not gagging Sethy.
 
 Many feel the latest move by police is a deliberate attempt to keep the ruling party in good humour. This is not the first time an undertrial prisoner like Sethy has spoken to the media outside the court. Like him, several accused persons have been talking to the media outside the court. "We never saw any disciplinary action being taken against any police personnel after under trial prisoners spoke to the media," said Prashant Mohanty, a duped investor.
 Now, the ruling BJD is apprehensive about its image for the upcoming rural election. "Fearing a repetition of the Sethy episode, the police do not want to risk producing prisoners in court," Mohanty said.
 
 "We do not have a problem. Every day, at least 40 undertrials are being produced in court via video-conference in jail," said jail superintendent Rabindra Swain.
 
 The BJD has been in trouble ever since the CBI started its probe into the mega chit fund scam by 44 companies in May 2014. The ruling party suffered a setback after the arrest of Banki MLA Pravat Tripathy and Mayurbhanj MP Ramachandra Hansdah in separate chit fund scams in 2014. But the probe slowed down mysteriously after the interrogation of Saroj Sahoo, perceived to be a close aide of chief minister Naveen Patnaik in November 2014. On January 12, the CBI raided the houses of MP Rabindra Jena, MLA Pravat Biswal and Saroj Sahoo for their alleged involvement in the Seashore Group Ponzi scam.
 
