KOLKATA: Actor   Chatterjee’s fans are a worried lot: they are not only distressed about his health but also apparently concerned about the fate of his character in the popular serial, ‘Ichche Nodi’, not sure if Anurag, as the protagonist is called, would be removed from the story altogether. 

 Rumours had been doing the rounds that the serial would “send” Vikram’s ‘Anurag’ abroad. “No, that can’t be done. We have just shown Anurag return from the US. How can he go abroad again? We are thinking on other lines,” said creative director and scriptwriter of the serial, Leena Gangopadhyay. Some viewers thought the character would die. “That is because what happened in ‘Jol Nupur’. When actors Ronnie Chakraborty and Pijush Ganguly died, they were both in the same serial, and we showed the characters, too, died But we can’t do that here. With so much of media coverage, people know what’s happened to Vikram,” Gangopadhyay said.
 
 In fact, she reportedly planned to link events from Vikram’s real life to the screenplay. “In the script, someone would break the news that Anurag had had an accident. While the car was found, he was untraceable,” she said. Dialogues were being written to build the anxiety over searching Anurag. So, will the crash be shown on Rashbehari Avenue? “No, we are showing the accident on Durgapur Expressway,” she said.
 
 In fact, two days after his accident, Vikram himself had apparently spoken to Gangopadhyay, expressing his apprehension if he would be able to ever work again. The question rose because he was aware of the problem of episode-banking that serial-makers faced. He knew that if an episode was not ready, there could not be a repeat telecast of an earlier episode. Unlike in other industries—where someone else could replace the person concerned in an emergency to fill in the blank—a “temporary stand-in” could not take on an actor’s role. So, even Gangopadhyay hoped once Vikram recovered from the trauma of the crash, he would be able to face the camera again. 
 
 Fortunately, Gangopadhyay said, ‘Icche Nodi’ had a bank of seven episodes, though usually, it was restricted to merely two. So, the serial could run for seven days till next Friday before they might face any problems, she added. 
 
 
