CHANDIGARH: Introduced at a wider scale in the Punjab assembly elections, a number of voter-verified paper audit trail (VVPAT) machines, besides   (EVMs), developed snags during the polling process on Saturday.

 Chief electoral Officer (CEO) V K Singh said 6,668 VVPAT machines were used. In the morning, during mock trial itself, 538 VVPAT machines were replaced. In addition, 187 were replaced during the polling. The voting process was interupted at 25 polling booths of Majitha, and 10 each in Muktsar and Sangrur. VVPAT machines were used in 33 of the 117 constituencies for the assembly polls and two assembly segments of the Amritsar Lok Sabha seat where by-polls were held. 
 
 Similarly, 195 EVM machines were replaced during mock trial and 47 afterward. Singh said that there was not a single case of disruption of poll and inducement of voters that was brought to the notice of the commission during the day. The Election Commission (EC) had to replace these machines with the stand-by stock. In all 31,460 voting machines were used.
 
 Punjab revenue minister Bikram Singh Majithia had to wait to cast his vote in the morning due to the technical snag in EVM at the polling station number in Majitha constituency in Amritsar district. Voting started around 45 minutes late at two polling booths in Jalandhar and Amritsar too due to technical glitches.
 
 Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Sanjay Singh took up the matter of delay caused by faulty EVMs at Majithia with the EC during the day.
 
 The online portal of the EC had a section showing poll interruptions, it listed at least half a dozen polling stations in Malout (Muktsar), besides those in Zira (Ferozpur), Sultanpur Lodhi, Sultanpur Lodhi (Kapurthala), Jalandhar Central having developed problems.
 
 Asked about faulty EVMs, Singh told mediapersons that a report was being compiled on the machines that developed snags at different places. “The VVPATs were introduced for the first time and some hitches had to be there. Proper training was given to the returning officers (ROs) on how to use the equipment. But the number of machines that developed technical snags is still very less,” the CEO said.
 
 The EC has, however, ruled out any repoll for now on account of EVM-related delays. Asked if the poll panel was considering ordering re-poll in constituencies where there was inordinate delay, Singh said no such demand has been received from any political party.
 
 Sources claimed the EC felt short of technical hands to rectify the large number of VVPATs and EVMs that went phut.
 
 During the Lok Sabha election in 2014, the election department had installed outdated EVMs that baffled not just the staff on election duty — as many as 478 had to be replaced — but also made the voters wait due to delays caused during replacement of the equipment. Most of these EMS were made before 2006, and manufacturers say these have life of 6-7 years.
 
 “My wife had to wait to cast vote as there was a problem with the EVMs. We were told that the faulty ones were replaced,” Amarjit Singh, a resident of Jalandhar.
 
