Indore: Indore Railway Station under Ratlam Division of western railways is set to get a world-class makeover as it has been selected for the priority list of Indian Railways to provide amenities and services to passengers in line with world class railway stations. The railways on Saturday released a list of 23 railway stations across the country which have been prioritised for the first phase of its ambitious Station Redevelopment Programme. Officials of Ratlam Division of the Western Railways said, “Union minister of railways Suresh Prabhu had announced that the Indian Railways is ready to redevelop 23 major stations across the country. The list also includes Bhopal Railway station from Madhya Pradesh among others.” Officials said that these stations will be redeveloped through a public-private partnership model without straining the railways' finances. “The redeveloped station will improve passengers’ experience by providing amenities like digital sign boards, escalators/elevators, self-ticketing counters, executive lounges, luggage screening machines, walkways, holding areas for passengers, grand roofing and flooring, free and paid Wi-Fi, etc,” they said, while adding that the programme will benefit thousands of passengers that visit Indore Railway station daily. Officials said that a meeting is scheduled to be held on February 8, 2016 at the office of divisional railway manager, Ratlam for a detailed discussion with private parties. As per initial plans, the Railways will provide around 145 acres of encroachment free land at stations to developers on a 45-year lease. The railways has also appointed nodal officers in each zone to ensure smooth interactions with developers. An official release from Ratlam division of the Western Railways on Saturday said these stations are in addition to those being redeveloped by Indian Railway Station Development Corporation (IRSDC). “In addition to Habibganj being contracted to Bansal Pathways under PPP program, IRSDC has inaugurated Gandhinagar station in partnership with the Gujarat state government and invited bids for Bijwasan railway station,” it stated The railways is also working out on its organisation structure and processes to handle the programme in a holistic and sustainable manner. The recommendations will be centered on strengthening the organization and processes at both Railway Board and Zonal Railways.