BENGALURU: Preference to second rung leadership and youngsters is the clear message that has been sent across in the appointment of party MP K C Venugopal as the AICC general secretary in charge of Karnataka, handpicked by Congress vice-president  .

 According to party sources, Venugopal was chosen for poll-bound Karnataka for his election strategies in Goa where the party won but failed to act in time and form government. In charge of selecting candidates for seats where new faces were given tickets, it was his decision to go alone in the polls.
 
 A similar situation is there in Karnataka where a majority of the 122 Congress candidates are facing anti-incumbency in their constituencies. There is a constant reiteration by party leaders of going alone in the polls and the suggestion of giving the second rung leadership an opportunity to contest.
 
 The removal of   as the AICC general secretary is seen as a setback to CM Siddaramaiah. Sources said the CM has become strong with the slew of programmes introduced following victory in the recent bypolls in Gundlupet and Nanjangud. “From now on decisions on Karnataka will be taken by Rahul, which includes who should be the KPCC president. The common complaint against Singh was that he never interacted with the workers,” they added.
 
 Four secretaries to assist Venugopal have been appointed with an eye on the upcoming polls. They will either be made in charge of the frontal organizations of the party, which have never been put to optimum use by the state unit during elections in the past or will be assigned districts.
 
 The Four Secretaries
 
 The four secretaries — Manickam Tagore, P C Vishnunadh, Madhu Yashki Goud and Sake Saijanath — are all second rung party leaders. Tagore (42) had unsuccessfully contested from the Virudhunagar LS seat in Tamil Nadu in 2014, while PC Vishnunadh (39) was a Kerala MLA. Goud (56) is a former MP from Nizamabad in Telangana and Saijanath (53) contested from Singanamala assembly segment in Ananthpur and was a minister in the N Kiran Kumar Reddy government.
 
