Bhopal: ​Acting on the advice of party president Amit Shah to field full-time ‘Samaydani’ workers to strengthen booth-level networking ahead of the 2018 assembly elections, the state BJP has decided to bear all the expenses of its full-timers to enable them to dedicate themselves entirely to party work. 

 The party is not willing to disclose how many full-timers have been roped in so far to meet the target of 20,000. But the move has already triggered attacks from the Opposition Congress, which wants to know how much BJP will pay these Samaydanis, and how it is getting the funds.
 
 “BJP is known for its booth-management and has involved full-timers for booth-level networking in all 56 organisational districts in MP. We have shortlisted 350 full-timers to be fielded in each assembly constituency and plans are on to appoint them in all 367 tehsils, too”, BJP state general secretary and project in-charge Vishnu Dutt Sharma told TOI. He said the party has already fielded five full-timers in every block and tehsil, and selected 64,000 block in-charges to manage block-level activities. Recently, the state unit appointed 16,963 booth expanders (Vistarak) to boost its rural networking for the assembly elections. 
 
 
 But the party will not bear expenses of all of them, he clarified. “BJP has more than 15,000 dedicated workers who are participating in the organisation activities daily. But they are based in their home districts, while 24-full-timers have been allotted specific areas in the state. In the absence of proper resources, the party has decided to provide them boarding-lodging and vehicle for their convenience,” Sharma said.
 
 Sources in BJP said that the party’s Chhattisgarh unit recently decided to provide Rs 20,000 per month as remuneration and a motorcycle to each full-time worker to help them travel in their respective constituencies — workers in Madhya Pradesh expect the same. “We have been leaving our family and homes to dedicate our life to the party cause. We expect our leaders to take care of our family and fulfil our basic needs,” said a full-time worker, asking not to be named.
 
 The MP BJP unit party is mulling paying Rs 15,000 per month to each full-time worker, sources say, adding that 500 workers have been selected to begin with. The number could increase with the involvement of 16,000 expanders as the polls draw near, sources said. “So far, 190 workers have been trained. The party is not involving paid workers, as alleged by rival political groups,” said BJP state spokesperson Deepak Vijayavargiya. 
 
 Congress doesn’t buy the explanation. The BJP plans to spend Rs 75 lakh on full-timers, Congress leaders said. “BJP has a big booth management plan ahead of assembly elections. With the dwindling voter base, saffron leaders will leave no stone unturned to manage the polls. The party must disclose from where it would siphon funds to manage its full-time workers,” said Congress state spokesperson K K Mishra. Congress claims BJP has recently appointed 20,000 workers in different government panels in the state, calling it an effort to ‘pacify disgruntled factions within the party’.
 
 
