NOIDA: The new year has started on a stinking note for residents of  ,  , who have been complaining about   for the past six months and   that has been accumulating at spots for the past three months.

 With the   turning a deaf ear to their repeated complaints, the sector RWA members have now taken the issue to the Federation of   Residents’ Welfare Associations (FONRWA). While the garbage was cleared to some extent on Tuesday morning, the blocked sewers still raise a stink strong enough to cause an epidemic.
 
 Shramik Kunj, which is located near   traffic light in Sector 66, is a cluster of about 960 low-income flats which today house over 6,000 people, according to Main Pal Yadav, Sector 66 RWA president.
 
 Though founded in 2003, housing complex walls have developed cracks. The sewer lines are old, rusting and choked, with the overflowing sewage making the road swampy.
 
 Yadav said the area was inhabited mostly by daily wage earners, labourers, housemaids, workers, etc. They take rooms on rent here as they move around the city for work in factories and, residential societies or construction sites. “They are a neglected lot living in poverty in an area that is under the Noida Authority,” Yadav said.
 
 Yadav, who is tired of approaching apathetic officers at all levels of the Noida Authority for redress, has now taken the matter to FONRWA. “A couple of people died last year because of the unhygienic conditions in the area. Are we waiting for more deaths now,” Yadav asked.
 
 When contacted,  , project engineer, work circle 5, which covers the area, said that the issue involved the health and the Jal/sewer departments of the Noida Authority. “I’m not entitled to take action in this context,” Prakash said.
 
 Yadav, meanwhile, said that this shifting of blame by Authority officials was a routine affair. “The only outcome of the apathy is the residents of the area are subjected to a grave health hazard,” Yadav said.
 
 On Monday, N P Singh, FONRWA president, visited the area with other FONRWA office bearers. “The living conditions are very poor. We need to help these people on humanitarian grounds. These flats come under Noida Authority and are allotted by the Authority. So they must look into the matter. I will be speaking to CEO Deepak Agarwal to ensure some action on it on an urgent basis,” Singh said.
 
 
