COIMBATORE: In its latest efforts to fight the prevalence of   fever, the city health department has urged private hospitals to send all patients suffering from fever to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH), if their platelet count were less than 50,000.

 The city health officials also have plans to hold a meeting with residential welfare associations on Friday to create awareness on dengue fever. Schools have been, meanwhile, asked to report daily the number of students absent due to fever.
 
 According to the officials, as many as 4,000 dengue cases were reported across the state last year. “This year, the state has reported an equal number of dengue cases in the first six months. Most number of cases was reported from Coimbatore, Pollachi, Erode, Tirupur and Palani,” they said. The city reported as many as 27 cases last week alone.
 
 City health officer   said more than 200 doctors from various private clinics and hospitals would be trained by experts on WHO (World Health Organisation) protocols to manage the spread of fever. “Most times, doctors check temperature and prescribe tablets. Later, injections and intravenous fluids are administered. Only when it gets out of control, patients are referred to the government hospital,” he said.
 
 During a joint review meeting by health minister, health secretary, director of public health and other officials, all the district health officials were instructed to control dengue deaths and create awareness among people about the fever. They were also told not to allow private hospitals or practitioners to treat patients with fever and thrombocytopenia, if their platelets count were less than 50,000.
 
 “All such cases should be considered as dengue and must be referred immediately to the nearest government hospital. Any death occurring in private hospital or late referral will be dealt severely and the hospital and physician/pediatrician will be fully responsible. All dengue deaths will be investigated and audited by the government,” it was said at the review meeting.
 
 All pharmacies have been instructed to stop the sale of over-the-counter drugs for fever and refer fever cases to nearby hospital considering them as dengue cases. “All pharmacies will be monitored by assistant drug controller and drug inspectors. Death audits will reveal the name of treating pharmacies and severe action will be initiated,” an official said. 
 
 The review meeting had also taken a decision to conduct fever camps everywhere in co-ordination with government institutions. “The report of such camps has to be submitted to the deputy director of health,” it said. Clinics, pharmacies and hospital premises should be checked regularly for mosquito breeding grounds, the officials said. 
 
