Mysuru: Fuel stations in the city will stop accepting credit and debit cards from Sunday midnight responding to a call given by the Petroleum Dealers’ Association protesting the decision of some banks to levy one percent service charge on each transaction made using plastic cards. 

 Following the announcement, some fuel stations in the city witnessed huge rush. With most of the ATMs in the city still being shut after demonetization and people still facing hardship to get lower denomination currencies, many vehicle owners seen queuing up before fuel stations to fill their vehicle tanks.
 
 President of Federation of Mysore Petroleum Traders S K Dinesh told TOI that the decision by the banks to levy one percent charge for each transaction through PoS machines is against the concept of Digital India and needs to be withdrawn forthwith. 
 
 “While the central government is aggressively promoting cashless transactions, the banks have issued notices to fuel stations stating that they will be levied one percent service charge from January 9. Fuel stations get just 2 percent commission and if the banks take away one percent, then running petrol bunks will become difficult,” Dinesh said.
 
 To a question, he said fuel stations have already received notice from HDFC and Axis banks about levying charges from January 9. “We are expecting a similar communication from other banks too,” he added.
 
 “We were happy with cashless transactions as it had helped to avoid fake notes besides solving problem of change. Every fuel station used to suffer around Rs 6,000 to Rs 8,000 loss every month due to fake note menace. Miscreants used to cheat the fuel station staff by handing over fake currencies during night. Due to cashless transaction after demonetization, the problem was solved,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, the sudden decision of fuel stations has irked the motorists as they feel they will be at loss in the fight between the banks and the fuel stations. 
 
 M Ravikumar, who runs a mineral water business, said that he travels from Gundlupet to   every day for business purposes. “I usually use debit card at fuel stations as it is easy and reliable. But if fuel stations stop accepting cards, then it will definitely affect everyone as carrying cash everywhere is difficult and dangerous,” he said.
 
 Nagaraju, owner of a computer training centre, urged the central government to resolve the issue immediately. “Levying tax on cashless transactions has become an extra burden on people. Banks are levying such charges on general public too,” he said.
 
 
