Cleared/Ali

 As the cash crunch due to demonetization is slowly easing, president of Institute of Cost Accountants for India Manas Kumar Thakur spoke to Adarsh Jain about price fall due to the central government’s move, solutions to resolve black money and changes in syllabus for CMA course. 
 
 How do you look at  ?
 
 We are ready to support the (central) government. Based on the requests made by the Union minister for finance Arun Jaitely, we are submitting a report on demonetisation. We are going to study the present market situation and assess how market will be in the next 10 to 20 years. We will also identify when India will face a situation for another demonetisation. The previous demonetisation was in 1978. We are looking into three main parameters - the cash flow in the market, the factors that create the parallel economy, and reasons for unaccountability of income. 
 
 On New Years’ Eve, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had made some announcements. As a result, we saw banks cutting rates for home loans. 
 
 Yes, banks are becoming richer with cash flow into their kitty increasing in the last two months. So, this is an obvious move. 
 
 In the same speech, Modi gave a big tax relief for micro, small and medium enterprises 
 
 We can divide loan borrowers into three categories: those borrowing less than Rs1 crore, between Rs1 and 5 crore and those above Rs 5 crore. If you see the records, you will see that many of them in the third category are often defaulters. And to the contrary, those borrowing small amount show more willingness to repay the money (up to 95% of the sum borrowed). So, the Centre feels that it is important to empower the micro and small units. 
 
 Do you expect the Centre to make some products cheaper this budget?
 
 I cannot comment on it. But if people cooperate with the Centre’s steps, then inflation will come down. And, in a year or two, we will get to see the actual impact. Almost every sector will see fall in prices. 
 
 Black money is a big issue. How can we resolve it?
 
 See, I look it from a different point of view. A lot of agriculturists or farmers do not show their income as they are exempted from income tax up to Rs6lakh. Now, there is no record of their income. We are submitting a proposal to the Centre to make it mandatory for farmers to declare their income. Let them be exempted from tax but when they show their income, the money will be termed accounted. It applies for every sector. 
 
 With GST going to be implemented, do you plan to change the syllabus for the courses taught by ICAI? 
 
 The process is already on. Syllabus for indirect taxes and tax planning will change. 
 
 
