Eleven years. That’s a long, long time to be waiting. And if you are just 14, that’s almost an entire lifetime! Vani and Veena, Nalgonda’s famous   who’ve grown up amidst media attention since they were four, are 14 years old now. And they’ve spent 11 of those 14 years in a crammed ward in  , waiting for some sign of hope in the form of a surgery that could possibly separate them. Earlier this month, the twins —who’ve been joined at the cranium since birth — had to leave behind the only people they called ‘friends’ and all that they considered ‘home’, when they were shifted to a state-run home for children in  , where better facilities and care could be provided to them. It’s been a little short of a month, and the sisters are still getting used to their new world and life. But when you meet them, none of life’s ordeals show on their faces. they greet you with warm, if shy, smiles when you say ‘hi...’. 
So, how do they like their new home? “I love it,” exclaims Veena, who uses a handheld mirror to see those who are facing Vani. She’s the more chatty one of the two, clearly. Vani takes her time to respond, and in a soft voice, says, “I like it.” Veena quickly takes over: “She still misses our friends back at Niloufer...” 
 The sisters, who’ve lived their entire lives attached at the head, have never seen each other’s faces, except in pictures. And yet, they seem to be tuned in to every little detail about each other. Ask anything, and Veena volunteers to answer for both of them. but she quickly adds, “She’s actually the more talkative one; but she’s still adjusting here.” That makes Vani flash her shy smile, and she warms up to us a little more: “We already made new friends... they come see us every day,” Vani shares, offering to show us around a little and tell us about their new life. 
 Their little room is spacious, colourful and thoughtfully decorated with all the things little girls would like. There’s a poster that says, ‘Welcome Vani Veena’ on the wall, made by their friends at the home, a custom-made L-shaped bed that accommodates them both and lots of fluffy soft toys. Their routine is simple. At study time, they are taught by a designated tutor; there are health check-ups to be done every day; there’s meal time and medicine time. “But best of all, there’s play time!” The twins are taken out to a park in the evenings to play ball after which they stroll around the open grounds of the home. “that’s the thing we love the most about this home. We like the freedom we get here. We get to play outside —we could never do that when we stayed in Niloufer,” says Veena.
 As Veena chats away incessantly, their caretaker, Vijayalaxmi, cuts in to tell us: “Veena is a good singer.” Really? 
 “...Bheegi Bheegi sadko pe main…tera intezaar karu... Sanam Re... Sanam Re...” she’s sings, in response, eliciting applause from everyone around. And what about Vani? She doesn’t sing. Instead, she walks up with her sister to their little cabinet and pulls out some drawing books. As she proudly shows off her work — filled with bold strokes and bright colours — there’s a smile on her face. The girls are extremely quick to grasp whatever they are taught, the caretaker tells us, adding, “sometimes even what they aren’t...” causing the girls to break into a naughty giggle. 
 “We love story books,” they both say at once. “I like Cinderella, because she is beautiful,” Veena says, while Vani adds, “I like Snow White.” Among the other pastimes they enjoy, watching TV comes first. And they have very distinct tastes in that as well. “Vani is a cartoon buff and I like game shows and music channels,” Veena says. And like siblings usually do, they too fight for the remote! “We fight when we want different things,” Veena quips, throwing in a complaint: “She also overthinks a lot!” 
 “No, I don’t, you’re lying,” Vani retorts. 
 Watching the sisters poke fun at everything, break into muffled giggles and pull each other’s legs, you too lighten up and become just as happy-go-lucky as them. So what next, we ask, figuring out a way to take their leave, so that they can go back to their books and games. “Next? I want to be a scientist,” Veena says. “I’ll be an engineer,” Vani chimes in. 
 Now, how’s that for some serious life goals? More power to these wonderkids!
 
 
