PUDUCHERRY: Maintaining that the CBI will not register a case without credible evidence on corruption charges in postgraduate medical admission in private institutions in  , lt governor   demanded chief minister V   and health minister Malladi Krishna Rao to take responsibility for the ‘colossal failure and embarrassment to Puducherry’.

 Bedi, while reacting to Narayanasamy’s remarks that ‘certain forces’ have been attempting to paralyse the functioning of Puducherry government, sought the chief minister to ‘accept the criminality which has happened’.
 
 “I have no doubt that the CBI will investigate whose instructions the officers were carrying out. The blunder they committed was that they carried out wrong verbal orders, perhaps nowhere placing them on record. Which is why they are now responsible and the prime accused in the case. They shall all have to defend themselves before the court of law for years to come at their own expense,” she said.
 
 “Their careers will be severely affected. Hence they need to tell the truth as to whether they were committing these irregularities on their own or were being directed to and by whom? If they do not tell the truth now they will suffer for the rest of their lives. Speaking the truth is their only chance to explain” she said. 
 
 Bedi said the political and administrative failure led to the present crisis. “It is the primary failure of the chief minister, his cabinet colleagues and chief secretary. It’s not an outsider who has caused this failure. It is all from inside leadership. The chief secretary failed to ensure due coordination between the departments for effective corrective action,” she charged.
 
 Bedi said repeated efforts by the parents-teachers forums ably supported by the lt governor’s office and report of Madras high court retired judge justice Chitra Venkataraman and timely intervention of the Madras high court and Supreme Court and the Medical Council of India finally yielded fruitful results.
 
 The CBI registered cases against six government servants and seven representatives of private institutions on charges of criminal conspiracy, criminal misconduct and cheating in the admission of postgraduate medical programmes in private institutions. According to the FIR,
 
 Mahatma Gandhi medical college and research institute denied postgraduate medical seats to 23 eligible students but admitted 18 ineligible students, Aarupadai Veedu medical college and research institute denied seats to 13 eligible students but admitted 13 ineligible students, Vinayaka Mission medical college denied seats to 21 eligible students but admitted 10 ineligible students, Sri Lakshminarayana institute of medical sciences denied admission to one eligible student but admitted six ineligible students, Sri Manakula Vinayagar medical college and hospital denied seats to 15 eligible students but admitted 26 ineligible students, Pondicherry institute of medical sciences denied seats to 15 eligible students but admitted 18 ineligible students and Sree Venkateshwaraa medical college hospital denied seats to five eligible students but admitted five ineligible students.
 
