SHIMLA: On the issue of opening  , especially   at  ,   and health minister Kaul Singh Thakur came face to face inside assembly on Friday. Dhumal even alleged that minister had tried to mislead the house.

 Joginder Nagar MLA of BJP Gulab Singh Thakur had asked question on ESIC medical college. In reply, Kaul Singh Thakur said that during previous regime of Dhumal, medical college was notified by ESIC on their request. He said now college has been taken over by the state government and work is being executed in phased manner. He said on December 9-10 last year, Medical Council of India (MCI) team had inspected the college and government has submitted a report on February 10 this year and has tried to remove those deficiencies pointed out by the MCI team. He said efforts would be made to start classes for 100 MBBS seats from August this year.
 
 Dhumal said the minister has tried to mislead the house and that the UPA government had taken the decision to allot ESIC college and hospital in the states that would provide the land and need the institution. He said during previous regime when Rajeev Bindal was health minister, state government took the initiative and after inspecting many sites, Ner Chowk was finalized. He said that the then Union minister Oscar Fernandes too had said the state got the ESIC medical college due to the efforts of Dhumal and to verify this even records could be checked.
 
 Kaul Singh said it is wrong to say that he was misleading the house. He said during 2007 elections, Dhumal had promised that on coming to power, classes would be started in a month. “We too have this recording,” he said.
 
 Dhumal said that on October 10, 2007, Election Commission of India had declared elections in state and for one month Congress was trying to hold elections in March and when this effort failed, notification for ESIC medical college was issued in backdate on which a complaint was made to EC that directed to take action against the then health secretary of state.
 
 Kaul Singh said the then chief election commissioner had done injustice with then Congress government of Himachal by declaring elections five months in advance.
 
 
