HYDERABAD: IT professionals and residents of Madhapur, K Chandra Sekhar, 32, and his wife K Ramani, 30, recently walked into a   in the city after they decided to have a second child — a plan they had previously shelved. The mother of a four-year-old boy is now waiting to  . 

 This medical procedure, fast becoming popular among urban couples in the city, reopens the fallopian tube in women who’ve undergone tubectomy and want to conceive again. Tubectomy is a surgical procedure in which the fallopian tubes are clamped and blocked, which prevents eggs from reaching the uterus for implantation. Among men, recanalisation can reverse a vasectomy. The cost of the surgery is upwards of Rs 1 lakh (approx). 
 
 “In recent years, there has been a 10% increase in cases of recanalisation. Couples who wanted to stick to the one-child rule earlier are now opting to break away from that norm,” said Dr Srinivas, a plastic surgeon practicing in the city.
 
 Incidentally, the total fertility rate in the state is just 1.8 births per woman, which is way below the national average of 2.7 births per woman. 
 
 “When we had our first child two years ago, we thought we could not have another child owing to financial constraints. But now our salaries have increased and so we approached a doctor for recanalisation,” said S Padmavati, a private employee from Himayathnagar.
 
 Doctors say that couples also opt for recanalisation in case of some serious ailment or death of their first child. “Then there are people who are in their second marriage and want a child. Most of those approaching us are working couples,” said Dr  . On an average, gynaecologists in the city get about 10 such cases each in a month. The number was zero until a few years ago. 
 
 According to doctors, the success rate of recanalisation is around 60%. “If it is done within six months to one year from the time of tubectomy/vastectomy, the chances of success are very high. It is a very complicated procedure that lasts for about three to four hours,” said Dr  , vice president of the Hyderabad chapter of the Federation of Obstetric, Gynaecological Society of India.
 
