NEW DELHI:  , who was sworn in as the 44th chief justice of India on Wednesday, will go down in history as the first member from the Sikh community to hold the nation’s top judicial position.
 
  The turbaned, suave judge was elevated to the   on September 13, 2011. In his long stint as judge, 64-year-old Justice Khehar made a mark for himself with his firm demeanour and punctuality, on display on his first day as the CJI. His court sat down at 10.30 in the morning, as usual. He is believed to have left the Ashoka Hall of the Rashtrapati Bhavan soon after the swearing-in ceremony.
  
  His court work went off with equal precision: he adjourned cases in which lawyers were not ready or pleadings were incomplete and passed orders in some, disposing of 30-odd cases in a matter of an hour before getting up to deal with administrative work. Here’s a snapshot of some of his key judgments:
  
  
 : In 2009, Justice Khehar, then at the Punjab and Haryana HC, ruled that retaining hair unshorn was a fundamental tenet of the Sikh religion. His interpretation of the Sikh Gurdwara Act, 1925, brought forth a howl of protest. The Act was challenged by a Sikh girl after she was denied admission to an MBBS seat reserved for the community on the ground that she plucked her brows. “… a Sikh is not permitted to dishonour hair, or even to harbour any antipathy to hair of the head with which a child is born. Dyeing one’s hair is considered as an act of dishonouring hair. Transgression of these norms is treated as ‘tabooed practice’ condonable only after suffering a chastisement,” he ruled.
  
  
 : In a separate opinion in the presidential reference, he conceded that the policy of allocation of natural resources for public good can be defined by the legislature and likewise determined by the executive. Auction, he said, may not be the only constitutionally recognised method for alienation of natural resources, but that should not be understood to mean that it can never be a valid method for disposal of natural resources. “No part of the natural resource can be dissipated as a matter of largesse, charity, donation or endowment for private exploitation. Each bit of natural resource expended must bring back a reciprocal consideration. The consideration may be in the nature of earning revenue or may be to ‘best subserve the common good’. It may well be the amalgam of the two.”
  
  
 : He, along with Justice KS Radhakrishnan, sent Sahara Chairman Subrata Roy to the Tihar jail for failure to deposit thousands of crores with the market regulator as ordered by the court. He explained the decision saying Roy had “adopted a demeanour of defiance constituting a rebellious behaviour, not amenable to the rule of law”. He recused himself from hearing the case later after recording his displeasure over the arguments of lawyers Ram Jethmalani and Rajeev Dhavan, who had accused the bench of violating Roy’s human rights by not hearing him before jailing him.
  
  
 : A bench led by Justice Khehar ruled that temporary employees would be entitled to draw wages at the minimum of the pay scale extended to regular employees holding the same post. 
