No goals, a spate of misses, alert goalkeeping and a few frenetic moments marked a generally dour Group ‘A’ encounter between former champions   and Punjab at the  , here, on Wednesday.
 
  The teams remained unbeaten after two matches but Mizoram lead on goal difference in a tight group.
  
  Kerala, who beat   4-2 at the GMC Athletic Stadium, Bambolim, in their first encounter and Maharashtra are the other teams in the group.
  
  Mizoram forced the pace right from the start and called the tune for much of the encounter. A busy Punjab goalkeeper Paramjit Singh was called into action in the ninth minute when he tipped the ever-threatening Lalsangbera Sangbera’s attempt over the bar.
  
  He kept the Punjab goal intact again the very next minute, blocking Lalchhuanawma Vanchhawng’s header for another corner.
  
  Eight-time champions Punjab, pinned back into their own half, had their first look at goal in the 15th minute but Lalruatpuia punched away Vijay Kumar’s essay.
  
  Sangbera, inevitably perhaps, was at the centre of Mizoram’s next threat but a sliding Paramjit was equal to the occasion.
  
  For all Mizoram’s domination, Punjab went desperately close on the dot of halftime but Harpal’s cross eluded Amandeep Singh.
  
  With either side labouring to take control, the match produced a rare moment of excitement. A spectacular overhead clearance by Israel Laldingngheta after Punjab’s promising U-21 player Manvir Singh seemed destined to score created a buzz to proceedings.
  
  It was Mizoram’s turn to agonize in the 65th minute when a blunder by Punjab goalkeeper Paramjit Singh went unpunished by Lalbiakhlua who failed to direct the ball into an open goal.
  
  The result was met with contrasting emotions from the camps.
  
  Mizoram coach Lalsangzuala Hmar cried foul of the refereeing. “It was 11 vs 12 because of the referee (Ramaswamy Srikrishna),” he said, drawing reference to Punjab’s physical challenges. “Our players were fallen on the turf and play was waved on. The referee stole points from us,” Hmar said remorsefully.
  
  Kuldip Singh, guiding Punjab, was more than happy with a point from the encounter with the 2014 champions.
  
  “We had to pull out Rajbir Singh who scored both goals against Railways because of a chest infection in the second half but we are happy with a point from the game against Mizoram who are a top team now,” he said.
