JAIPUR: Eighteen students of Jagadguru Ramanandacharya Rajasthan   (JRRSU) were in for a shock after re-evaluation of their copies by experts outside the varsity. Twelve students found that their marks in   had decreased drastically after re-checking while six others failed to clear the exam.

 TOI has documents that prove that contrary to the second evaluation, students were awarded minimum of 40% to 72% marks on the answer sheets in the first evaluation. No student failed in the first evaluation. It has raised doubts over the evaluation process of the state’s lone   varsity. The second evaluation comes to the light when students complain about scoring marks way below expectations.
 
 Record says that university doesn’t have any provision for re-checking of answer copies unless a serious objection is observed in checking process. The copies once evaluated can go for re-totalling on request by the students.
 
 Documents say that answer copies of 18 students were first evaluated by the assistant professor, department of Philisophy (Darshan Shastra) Gopal Mishra who awarded minimum of 24 and maximum was 36 marks in philosophy papers out of 50 marks.
 
 Justifying the re-checking, Bhashkar Sharma, convenor, Central Evaluation Scheme at JRRSU reasoned that Mishra’s checked copies had many irregularities. “We found his checked answer copies not up to the mark during random checking. A team of experts also concluded irregularities which is a reason that we had to cancel his checked answer copies,” said Sharma.
 
 Later vice-chancellor Vinod Shastri invited Rani Dhadhich, who is an instructor, to evaluate the answer sheets. The evaluator has awarded zero to many students who were awarded upto 70% marks by Mishra, says a record that TOI possesses. The exception was one student only whose marks were reversed positively in the re-examination. The student was tracked as university students’ union president Bholo Ram.
 
 The varsity records say that appointment of Dhadhich for the second evaluation was objected by the officials as the evaluation has to be done by a person whose academic qualification is equal to assistant professor with three years of experience.
 
 “The objection was raised as the V-C has not given any reason for re-evaluation,” said a university official. TOI called up the vice-chancellor from different numbers throughout the day but he refused to speak citing network problems.
 
 Meanwhile, students are crying foul over the way their answer copies were treated. “I have always scored first division marks. This time they awarded zero marks which I challenge that the second evaluator goofed up miserably,” said Mukesh Sharma, a student of the university.
 
 
