INDORE: While they'll be relieved that they won't have to face in-form seamer  , Mumbai must surely be eyeing one man's wicket early in both the innings in their   final against Gujarat, which begins here from Tuesday.

 After having slammed 1270 runs in nine games at a Bradmanesque average of 97.69,   looks set to finish as the top run-getter of the Ranji Trophy this season by a significant distance. This tally includes five hundreds, the most by any batsman in the competition, with an unbeaten 314 against Punjab at Belgavi being his best score.
 
 Mumbai have already had a taste of what this 26-year-old can do, when he cracked 232 against the defending champions at Hubbali in the league stage to help Gujarat take the first innings lead against the Ranji giants. The opener had enjoyed a prolific time with the bat in the previous Ranji season too, having scored 665 runs in eight games @ 55.41, including three hundreds.
 
 Panchal gave a major credit for his success to his family. "It was my father's dream that I'll become an India cricketer some day. He had played cricket at the university level. However, he expired when I was just 15. At that stage, my mother (fashion designer) and sister (interior designer) both began to work to keep his dream alive. Their sacrifices helped me become a cricketer," Panchal opens up to TOI in an interview while gearing up for the big game.
 
 The Ahmedabad resident then explained the reason behind his golden run this season. "I'm now reading the game much better in the past two years. I've learnt to take responsibility, and be aware about which shots to play at which stage. I analysed about how I can rectify my mistakes. I also made slight changes to my technique. For example, I realised that on wickets where the ball stays low, I need a low back-lift. When I practiced, I imagined myself to be in a match situation as much as possible," he elaborates.
 
 The secret to those marathon knocks is also a conscious effort to work hard on fitness and diet. "I love to work on my fitness. I never miss my gym and running sessions, even in the off season and during the game. I follow a certain diet. I eat more vegetables, fruits, dry fruits. I avoid gluten food, because it makes the body lethargic," he says.
 
 Its isn't easy for a Gujarati to look the other way when something sweet is offered to him, but Panchal managed to stave off that temptation. "I avoid sweets. I only have vegetables and yoghurt at night," he says, while revealing that practicing Yoga and meditation has helped him become a better cricketer too.
 
 Panchal rates his unbeaten triple-hundred at Belgavi against Punjab as his 'best'. "We were put in to bat on a green top. The ball was moving around, and they were playing with four seamers. Apart from that, the hundred on a difficult track at Lahli also gave me a lot of confidence," he says. It helps Panchal that he gets to face a quality pacer like Bumrah in Gujarat nets. "It's a challenge to play him. He bowls at the same pace to even the tail-enders at the nets, and doesn't refrain from bowling bouncers at them. We love to play him because it teaches us how to play in tough situations," Panchal says.
 
 The batsman is a big fan of batting legend  . "Whenever I'm free, I watch his batting during India's 2011 tour to England, when he scored three hundreds in a series," he says. Like Dravid, he likes to read autobiographies of cricketers too. He says that it has helped him learn a lot about the game.
 
 "In his autobiography,  's written about how one shouldn't be satisfied with just getting a hundred, but look to make a big hundred," he says. Like most cricketers of the present generation, Panchal finds India skipper Virat Kohli's batting inspiring too. "The way he places importance to singles is an art which must be learnt," he admires.
 
 It has helped Panchal that he's played under experienced 'keeper-bat Parthiv Patel since he made his Gujarat debut. "He has a great work ethic. He always stays positive, and never quits hope," Panchal compliments.
 
 Self-belief, he stresses, has been the engine behind Gujarat reaching their first Ranji final since the 1950-51 season. "In the last few years, we would generally not qualify because of just one point, or an inferior net run rate. We knew that once we qualify for the knock-outs, we'll make the final. This time, our sole focus has been to win the Ranji Trophy. Even if we had a bad session, we never let negativity creep into the dressing room. However, we're holding our excitement back till we win the trophy, because we want our focus to stay on the final," he says.
 
 Panchal expects his team to give Mumbai a tough time in the title clash. "It's a formidable team. It's a usual thing for them to reach this stage of the tournament. We took three points off them in the league stage, so obviously they won't take us lightly, more so after we've reached the final," he says.
 
