JAIPUR:   are no longer in reach of   only. The   has created 30 first-of-its-kind   on a pilot basis in   in  . These schools will be inaugurated by the minister of state for finance Arjunlal Meghwal on February 22 in Ajmer. One class each in the 30 chosen schools was converted into smart classroom equpped with projectors and screens. They are connected with 4G and broadband internet connection to access web portals.

 “These smart classes are no less than those at elite schools. They have air conditioners, power back-up, LED lights, printers, scanners and are connected with education portals —NCERT, SCERT, Khan Academy, etc., to give an enriching experience to our students. There are minimum 30 chairs in each class so that students can sit for hours,” said Amit Sharma, coordinator of smart classrooms in Ajmer. 
 
 These classrooms were built by State Bank of Bikaner and Jaipur under its CSR initiative. It gave a grant of Rs 1 crore for the overall project. 
 
 Vasudev Devnani, state education minister, said, “This is an attempt to enhance the quality of education by making technological interventions. These new-age tools – projectors and screens – will be within the reach our students and will fulfil our aim of making education inclusive in the state.” 
 
 The minister wants to see smart classes in every district. He will be making an appeal to MLAs in the upcoming Vidhan Sabha session to rope in corporates and Bhamashah for sponsoring smart classes, he told TOI. “If every MLA creates smart classes in his/her constituency, that day is not far when at least one class in all government schools will be covered under this project,” said Devnani. 
 
 As this is a pilot project, school principals were given a free hand to utilise the classrooms in the manner which contributes best to improving the learning outcomes of students. 
 
 Moiniya Islamia Sr School, Ajmer, has started doing the test run of smart classes. Shiv Prasad Gautam, principal of this school, has created email ids of senior secondary students. “The attendance has shot up since the test run has started. We have showed Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Mann Ki Baat episode, which had a message for students appearing in exams, more than twice on the demand of students,” said Gautam. 
 
 
