PUNE: Ankit has to travel 20km to office and again 20km back home every day.

 The roads he has to take have turned slushy and are full of potholes. Navigating a chaotic traffic during peak morning hours is quite a daunting task for him, particularly when it rains.
 
 His routine hit a rough patch when he started experiencing stiffness in the lower back and radiating pain in the right leg. He managed to fight it initially with analgesics, but the medicines soon became ineffective. Investigations revealed that the cushion-like discs between his spinal vertebras were damaged because of the recurrent jerks he suffered on the rough roads. It is not just adult professionals and autorickshaw and cab drivers, most children traveling to school by buses, vans or autos on the bumpy roads are equally prone to developing musculoskeletal disorders (MSDs) -conditions that can affect muscles, bones, and joints.
 
 Similarly , driving over potholed roads increases the risk of miscarriages among women with poor obstetric history . It also puts the elderly at high risk of developing compression fractures. Doctors are worried that the roads with potholes have unleashed an epidemic of sorts of musculoskeletal disorders.
 
 “Awareness about the hazards of driving or riding on dug-up and pothole-ridden roads is not much among the commuters. Many ride over the potholes at high speed with complete disregard to the harm in their spine,“ orthopaedic surgeon and chairman of Sancheti Institute for Orthopaedics and Rehabilitation Parag Sancheti says.
 
 Senior citizens and middleaged people are the ones who complain most of back problems because of the potholed roads.
 
 “The growing number of potholes quadruples disabilities among the older adults.Complications like lower back pain, cervical spine pain and whiplash injury are very common among the elderly due to potholes. The worst part is that it might disturb a person's emotional balance,“ says the doctor, who is also the president of Asia Pacific Arthroplasty Society.
 
 Spine surgeon Ketan Khurjekar shares the same view.“There has been approximately a 20% rise in the number of patients complaining of back pain because of bumpy stretches and pothole-ridden roads. I see a lot of elderly people who drive themselves or sit pillion on two-wheelers. They usually suffer from insufficiency vertebral compression fractures due to frequent riding on roads full of potholes,“ he says.
 
 Can using a lumbar support help prevent the damage?
 
 “ Lumbar support doesn't really have much of a role, as most of these injuries are due to vertical transmission of force leading to compression or bust fracture of the spine,“ says orthopaedic surgeon Ramesh Ranka of  .
 
 “The most commonly involved spine is at the thoraco lumbar junction because it is the place where the spine changes its curve and all the forces of impact are transmitted on the D12 and L1vertebrae,“ he explains.
 
 Orthopaedic surgeon Kiran Shete of   says, “Riding a bike over potholes is like working on a vibrator. It starts degenerative changes in your joints and spine -mainly affecting both hands and spine vertebrae.“
 
 The dangers are more sever in children aged less than two years . “The sudden jerks can lead to Shaken Baby Syndrome in which a baby's brain hits against the skull which, in future, can result in developmental delays, learning disabilities, behavioural problems or seizures,“ he says.
 
 Spine surgeon Arvind Bhave of   hospital says, “It is also seen that two-wheeler riders and motorists cannot judge the depth of water in potholes. This causes severe injuries and fractures.“
 
 “As such potholes do not affect pregnancy , as babies are well protected in womb by nature.There is no evidence supporting abortions or pre-term labour due to bumpy rides. But chances of backache, sprains and muscle pulls are more,“ says gynaecologist Pankaj Sarode, secretary of Pune Obstetrics and Gynaecological Society .
 
 Orthopaedic surgeon and founder-director of   Surendra Patil said, “Back problem is almost an epidemic among the young IT professionals and those traveling long distances daily and doing little exercise. Bad roads certainly have a role to play .“
 
