LUCKNOW: For the first time,   in as many as   spread across 22 districts in UP would be printed in Urdu as well. In Uttar Pradesh, the voters’ list is generally prepared in Hindi.

 Senior officials of the   told TOI, “If 30% of the population of an area (assembly constituency in this case) speaks a different language than the rest, then voters’ list is prepared in that language as well. In case of UP, it is Urdu.” 
 
 According to the official website of the chief electoral officer of UP, among the 46 assembly constituencies, three are reserved for scheduled castes. These are Nagina and Nehtaur in Bijnor district and Chandausi in Sambhal district. In Lucknow, voters in Lucknow Central and Lucknow West would find their names appearing in Urdu.
 
 District Bijnor leads the state on this front with eight assembly constituencies — Barhapur, Bijnor, Chandpur, Dhampur, Nagina(SC), Najibabad, Nehtaur(SC) and Noorpur — where the electoral rolls would be made available in Urdu as well.
 
 Five assembly constituencies in   district too would see electoral rolls in Urdu. These are Moradabad Bilari, Kundarki, Moradabad Rural, Moradabad Nagar and Thakurdwara.
 
 Apart from this, three assembly constituencies each in districts of Meerut, Rampur, Saharanpur and Sambhal would also have a first-hand experience of usage of electoral rolls in Urdu.
 
 Aliagarh, Amroha, Bareilly, Kanpur Nagar would see Urdu electoral rolls being made available in two assembly constituencies.
 
 EC sources added that the Hindi roll would be considered the authentic version in case of a dispute.
 
 INFO:
 
 46 assembly constituencies in 22 assembly constituencies would see usage of Urdu electoral rolls
 
 Trend more visible in western UP as compared central and east UP
 
 39 of the 46 said assembly constituencies are in west UP, 3 are in east UP (Mau, Sant Kabir Nagar and Ambedkarnagar) and 4 are in central UP (Lucknow and Kanpur)
 
 3 assembly constituencies are reserved for scheduled castes
 
 District-wise, Bijnor dominate with 8 assembly constituencies, where Urdu electoral rolls would be made available, followed by Moradabad (5 assembly constituencies)
 
