BENGALURU: Karnataka chief minister   took a leaf out of his former   counterpart J Jayalalithaa’s book to court public popularity through subsidised food canteen in his pre-election budget for 2017-18.
 
  In a marathon four-hour ‘growth-oriented, inclusive’ presentation to the state assembly on Wednesday, Siddaramaiah, reading out a record 12th budget as finance minister, announced `100 crore for “Namma Canteen” (our canteen) along the lines of the “Amma Canteens” that dot TN and are thronged by the masses.
  
  “We will give breakfast at Rs 5, lunch and dinner at Rs 10 at one centre in each of the 192 wards in Bengaluru,” he said.
  
  The Rs 1,86,561-crore budget is the last full-fledged one he can present ahead of the 2018 state assembly elections in April-May. The next one is expected to be a vote-on-account.
  
  He announced the setting up of Saviruchi mobile canteens in all 30 districts through the Stree Shakti self help groups, a mid-day meal scheme for 12 lakh pregnant women, milk supply to the over a crore school and anganwadi children five days a week and eggs to the malnutrition-hit anganwadi children twice a week.
  
  “Darkness will not cast on the future of the land where women and children are the focus of development.
  
  This is a simple truth which I have found out by experience,” he said. There was much thumping among the treasury benches for the proposed laptops for 1.5 lakh students entering government and aided medical, engineering and degree colleges, but the loudest cheers were reserved for the announcement of 49 new taluk, welcomed with celebrations across the state.
  
  Siddaramaiah, however, did not announce the much-anticipated loan waiver for the drought-hit farmers, though he gave in to the demand to increase free rice under the flagship Anna Bhagya scheme from 5 to 7 kgs.
  
  “Let Yeddyurappa (state BJP chief) and Jagadish Shettar (opposition leader) fight for the state’s rights at the Centre. I asked the PM (Narendra Modi) to waive 50% of commercial bank loans and said I would match it in cooperative loans.
  
  If they can waive farmers loans in Uttar Pradesh, why can’t they do it here?” he asked, in a combative post-budget press conference.
  
  He came down harshly on the PM’s demonetisation drive. “Any public policy, apart from the purpose of achieving the intended target, should also be very efficient in its execution.
  
  Demonetisation caused huge amount of distress to the public but the Union Government is yet to disclose what outcome has been achieved by it.”
  
  Siddaramaiah, who had earlier stated that black money constituted hardly 0.002% of the country’s economy, said: “While the need for demonetisation itself is debatable, I think that the Union Government and the Reserve Bank of India could have at least foreseen the exigencies and could have put in practical and robust systems in place to insulate the common man from these hardships.”
  
  He announced policies in line with the Centre’s decision to implement the GST and do away with the distinction between plan and non-plan expenditure.
