Few hours after introducing his lady love   to the world through social media,   came in news once again for all the wrong reasons.
 
  While returning from Melbourne and Sydney after performing a stage show, an incident took place when Sunil was seated on his seat and Kapil suddenly walked up to him and allegedly started hurling abuses.
  
  According to report, in no time he held Sunil by his collar and raised his hand on Sunil. The actor, who plays Dr. Mashoor Gulati on the hit show didn't respond to Kapil's abuses and beating and stayed mum.
  
  
 
  
  The Kis Kis Ko Pyaar Karoon actor was allegedly drunk and called Sunil names like Tu Mera Naukar hai, tere show flop tha...". The entire team soon came to Sunil's rescue and took Kapil away.
  
  The whole internet has been speaking about this and now finally Kapil spoke about the same by putting a status on his Facebook this morning.
  
  
 
  
  He said "Hi.. good morning friends .. was celebrating my best time n suddenly I heard a news about me n sunil paji fighting.. first of all see where it is coming from.. what r the intentions behind this.. if I fought with him in the flight then who saw it n informed u.. is he trustworthy..? Some people enjoy these kind of stuff.. we eat together .. we travel together.. I meet my brother once in a year.. n spending almost everyday with my team.. specially sunil .. I love him.. I respect him.. yes I had a argue with him.but r we not normal people..?I shouted at him first time in 5 years .. itna to chalta hai bhai. we will sit n talk that where is the problem.. I love him as a artist as a human being.. he is like my elder brother.. why so much negativity all the time.. I respect our media.. there r some other serious issues which we need to focus. Is me n sunil's issue is so important n realted with the security of my country ..? We spend a lot of time together rather then our families .. n sometime it happens in family.. its our family matter.. we will sort this out.. zyada maze mat liya karoo. OK now m tired typing .. n one more thing.. I m going for the final schedule of Firangi. Hahahahaha.. sorry again promotion.. thank u so much for ur love n blessings... keep smiling n stay happy always :)) love u all"
  
  
 
  
  According to Kapil, this was the first time he shouted at Sunil in 5 years and still love and respect him. The actor also made sure to promote his movie 'Firangi' while speaking about the issue.
  
  Sources close to   informed us that Sunil is very hurt with Kapil's disrespectful behaviour and is in no mood to return to the show. It is not the first time that the TKSS host has behaved in such a manner. It has now become a matter of respect for Sunil and it would be beyond his dignity to stay back on the show as he was not at fault. 
