GAYA: President Pranab Mukherjee’s decision to commute the death sentence of four persons convicted for killing 34 upper caste people at Bara village in   district in 1992 means little for the family members of the convicted men. 

 Setting aside the state government and Centre’s recommendation, the President had commuted the death sentence of the four persons – Krishna Mochi, Nanhe Lal Mochi, Bir Kuer Paswan and Dharmendra Singh alias Dharu Singh – on Sunday.
 
 While the quartet languish in Bhagalpur central jail, their family members are not enthused by the President’s decision, the reason being that they will spend their remaining lives in jail. “Jail mein jina kya jina (life in jail is no life),” says Chandrami, wife of Krishna Mochi.
 
 One of the four children of Krishna, who is a local band master, was born when the Bara case accused was in jail. Krishna’s other children, including a daughter, are now married and have their own families. The four marriages took place in Krishna’s absence. Notwithstanding the conviction by the TADA court and its approval by the Supreme Court, the family continues to regard Krishna as innocent.
 
 Krishna’s son Ajay, a daily wager, said being poor he can hardly afford to visit Bhagalpur jail to see his father. “If he is transferred to Gaya, we can visit him once in a while,” Ajay added.
 
 Since Nanhe Mochi’s family migrated to some other distant village soon after the massacre, they could not be contacted. Dharmendra’s family members refused to talk.
 
 Legal circles are not surprised by the turn of events and the commutation of death penalty into life imprisonment. According to Sartaj Ali Khan and Ashok Kumar, two of the defence lawyers in the   case, the inordinate delay in disposal of the   favoured the accused. BJP functionary and former chairman of   Tarakant Jha presented the main argument on behalf of the accused in the TADA court presided by Jawahar Prasad, the then district and sessions judge.
 
 “Holding condemned men on death row for long goes in his favour,” said Khan, now the public prosecutor of Gaya. The mercy petition was filed in 2003 and its disposal took 14 years.
 
 Thirty-four male adults belonging to the Bhumihar caste were butchered on the outskirts of Bara village on February 12, 1992 under the then Tekari (now Alipur) police station. The TADA court’s judgement was upheld by the Supreme Court. 
 
 
