TRICHY: Farmers and agriculture labourers in Trichy have alleged that the ongoing crop damage assessment by a high-level team was nothing but an eyewash. 

  "Till yesterday, no officials came to our villages to listen to our grievances when we were struggling for cultivation as well as for drinking water," said a farmer on Friday. Agriculture labourers have alleged that they were asked to come for 100 days' work on the eve of the high-level visit to their area after four months.
 
 District president of Desiya Thenninthiya Nathigal Inaippu Vivasayigal Sangam Lister alleged that the entire episode of assessment of crop loss and water shortage was "an eyewash". Nothing would fructify following the visit. He also "strongly" condemned tourism minister  's remark that there was no information about farmers' deaths in Trichy district.
 
 Meanwhile, minister for handloom OS Manian, who visited four of the seven blocks in Nagapattinam, said that nearly 74 per cent of the samba and thaladi cultivation on 3.22 lakh acres had been badly affected due to water shortage. Farmers along with villagers told the high level committee that they had never encountered such a dreadful drought and appealed to the government to compensate their losses. 
 
 When he was checking out samba paddy crop in Thirumarugal area, a group of farmers asked for subsidy under 'Uzhavar Pathukappu Maniyam'. They also raised their voice saying that many farmers had not been provided crop insurance amount. The minister explained that since the Union government had not sanctioned funds to the tune of Rs 190 crore as their share, the disbursement has been delaying but assured early release of the same.
 
 A group of   in Thiruppattur near Manachanallur in Trichy intercepted a vehicle carrying reporters after the minister's convoy that went ahead did not stop when women tried to air their grievances. 
 
 They told the reporters that for the last three months they were not given any work and it has been four months since they got their wages. It was only on the eve of the high level team's visit to Thiruppattur that they were asked to return for work. 
 
