Varanasi: Despite having a disagreement over   for UP Assembly poll 2017 the   Patel led Apna Dal (Sonelal) is not in a mood to create trouble for senior alliance partner Bharatiya Janata Party.

 Union minister and   (S) chief Anupriya Patel said she felt more pain than anger over the seats given to her party by the BJP for UP Assembly polls. However, she said that she would put her grievances on right forum and claimed that   will form government in UP with full majority.
 
 Anupriya, who was in the city on Wednesday, admitted that seat sharing by the BJP had caused resentment in her party. Denying to disclose the number and names of Assembly seats claimed by her party, she hinted that reason behind the anger of her party against the BJP is fielding of candidates on seats like Rohaniya.
 
 Anupriya had emerged victorious from Rohaniya seat in 2012 Assembly election following which her party contested parliamentary election as BJP’s alliance partner. She emerged victorious from Mirzapur parliamentary seat in 2014 and later resigned from state Assembly. Her mother Krishna Patel contested the Assembly by-election from Rohaniya in 2014 but lost against Samajwadi Party’s Mahendra Patel. Following this defeat rift increased between Anupriya and Krishna Patel leading to division of the party. Krishna Patel led AD has not finalized its candidates to contest Assembly polls so far. But, Anupriya’s group is busy finalizing seats with BJP to field its candidates.
 
 Reason behind this reaction of Anupriya is the announcement of name of Surendra Narain Audhey as BJP candidate to contest from Rohaniya seat. BJP’s move made it clear that the party has left seats like Sevapuri, Ajgara and Pindra for AD(S). Anupriya also denied commenting on possible moves of Krishna Patel as well as prospects of SP-Congress alliance. She criticised Janata Dal United MP Sharad Yadav for his alleged sexist remarks and said women would show the power of their votes to leaders like Yadav in coming election.
 
 
