NEW DELHI: He has no problem with 
  of "negative vibes", but what former UP chief minister   does have a problem with is what he says is "blatant discrimination" against "policemen of one particular caste" barely a week into the   administration. 

 "I don't have any problem with shuddhikaran (purification) of the CM house. I just hope they look after the peacocks that had flown in there," Akhilesh said addressing the media ahead of a national executive meet of his Samajwadi Party.
 
 And Akhilesh being Akhilesh, he couldn't resist another dig at Adityanath's coterie - on day one of the administration a minister and several police officials were 
  , etc. 
 
 "Mujhe nahi pata tha ki adhikaari itna acha jhaadu lagate hain. Agar humey jaankari hoti toh jhaadu bahut lagwaya jaata unsey," Akhilesh said to guffaws. ("I didn't realize officials are so good at sweeping. If I'd known that, I'd have given them a ton of sweeping to do.")
 
 
  
 
 
 
 Akhilesh is fond of talking about the BJP and the Modi government and their "affinity" for brooms or 'jhadoos'. He talked a lot about that on the campaign trail.
 
 "Where are the 'achche din' that were promised three years ago. Instead people have been given brooms in their hands in the name of Swachh Bharat and are bring given lessons in Yoga .... but nobody can see the Achche Din that were promised," Akhilesh said in January after allying with the Congress party for the UP Assembly elections.
 
 
 
 
 In January, Akhilesh had also talked of opposition parties "selling dreams and trying to identify themselves as the well wishers of certain communities." He was referring to the BJP's Hindu outreach and the BSP's Muslim outreach.
 
 "... people in UP know who is their real well wisher," Akhilesh said at the time.
 
 Post the Assembly elections - and of course his loss - Akhilesh reiterated these sentiments today when he alleged that policemen from the Yadav community in UP are being targeted.
 
 "Only policemen of one particular caste are being suspended/transferred, everybody knows. But will you report that?" asked Akhilesh today.
 
 Interestingly, Akhilesh's comments about discrimination against "policemen of one particular caste" came almost minutes after an IPS officer in Lucknow was suspended. While the given reason for his suspension was "indiscipline", the move raised eyebrows because Himanshu Kumar, the officer, alleged the same as Akhilesh did - discrimination against the Yadav community.
 
 Earlier this week, IPS officer Kumar, a 2010-batch Indian Police Service officer attached with the Director General of Police's office in Lucknow, said in a tweet that those police officers with a 'Yadav' surname were being targeted. 
 
 
  
  Such actions, barely a week since the Adityanath government took office in UP don't bode well for the state, Akhilesh said, as he bunged in another dig at the new BJP CM.
 
 "The chief minister (Adityanath) told me he's ahead of me in age - by a year. I say 'he's behind me by a lot when it comes to work done…so what if he's a little older than me."
 
 
