All ears on the symphony of the spatula hitting the wok, eyes on the 
 chefs playing antics with the griddle, the tongue wiggling out to take a nip of a rainbow coloured 
  and the nose soaking in the aroma of the flavours coming from the diverse kitchens of Indore that blend intensely at the   is an experience in itself. If there is one ingredient that binds the gastronomically inclined Indoreans together, it has to be food. This   Sarafa Bazaar which comes alive in the night has become a place to be for the residents and expats alike who swear by the thought that good food is good mood.   takes a trail at this legendary food street and unravels what’s hot this summer.
 
  
 
 For food blogger Rakesh Dawani, Pyramid Dish Bowl (baraf ka gola) and   bettered with rose ice cream, is just the right thing to have in summer at Sarafa Bazaar. He shares, “Sarafa is a lifeline of Indore and for me is a place for reunion. Whenever I have guests coming from abroad, I bring them here. The place these days has become a sight-seeing destination for tourists.”
 
  
  
 
 Another food buff, Ganjendra Singh Rathod adds, “The Joshi ji ka dahi vada, kanji vada, mango kulfi and the coconut crush from Naveen bhaiya’s shop are some delectable summer dishes. However, it would be foolish to call it a night at Sarafa market without having the gundi paan.” This special minted paan is a recipe of Sachin Yadav who runs a shop called Annupurna Paan. He shares, “We also add an ice cube to the paan with the mint and masala to give the right summer sensation to our guests.”
 
  
  
 The old kiosks in Sarafa specialise in age-old recipes which are passed down generations. Kapil Jadwani, a food blogger, is of the opinion, “Nothing can beat the staple dishes like  , jumbo jalebi, combination of malpua and rabdi, bhutte ka kees, spice laden pav bhaji, paneer chole-tikki and the Nagori ki Shikanji. Though, in the past few years, dishes like momos and pasta have also found place at Sarafa Bazaar. I have been coming here since childhood and the taste of the staple dishes is just the same.”
 
 
 
 Rishabh Mundra, a college goer who lives close to Sarafa shares, “Most of my cousins come for a vacation stay at my place and taking them to Sarafa becomes a routine. I love being a guide for them and help them explore my city.” While summer vacations and pleasant evenings are a few reasons to keep the street super busy, youngsters who are appearing for semester exams also choose to have their supper at the market post the rigorous group study sessions. 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 The shelf life of most of the dishes has slashed down to less than a day which has driven the shop owners to ensure maximum quality and hygiene. Omprakash Joshi, who is famous for playing different antics with the dahi-bada bowl informs, “We have stopped over stocking the dahi. We prepare only a quantity that can be consumed on the same day. Preserving the raw material is no option in summer.”
  
  
 Picture Credits: Arpit Joshi
 
 
