The   (MAI) and its members released a statement on Wednesday in response to the   government's decision to cap   at Rs200. Calling the decision unconstitutional, the association questioned the rationality of it and asked the government to withdraw the cap. The statement says, "We believe that this step is retrograde, irrational, unfair, against the interests of film industry and the people of Karnataka, and also potentially unconstitutional." The MAI urged the   to withdraw this notification immediately.

  
  
 
  A national association, the MAI represents over 18 regional and national multiplex chains in the country. The associations claims that their members operate more than 500 multiplexes with more than 1800 screens across the country. They represent around 80% of the multiplex industry in India. Key points they made in the statement:
 
  
 In any democratic free market society, the State regulates the prices of only such goods or services which are essential or critical for the economically deprived sections of society, eg, life-saving drugs, or medical services, essential foodgrains, etc., in the public interest. It is extremely unusual, and even unfair, for States to regulate prices of discretionary spending like entertainment. With a multitude of television channels, internet broadcasting services, and other channels of entertainment delivery, all of which have absolutely no pricing control, capping ticket prices on cinema theatres alone, is patently unfair, and goes against the principles of equality enshrined in the Constitution of India.
 
  
  
 
  
 MAI believes that the move to cap ticket prices in Karnataka is extremely investor unfriendly and will stop the growth of new multiplexes in Karnataka. It would also lead to many existing multiplexes to consider shutting down because of financial unviability.
 
  
 Ticket prices vary per seat type, per screen, per show of the day, per day of the week, per movie being screened, per month of the year, and per nature of facilities/technology being provided. This flexibility in deciding ticket prices enable multiplexes to optimise occupancies and hence remain financially viable. This flexibility is an important element necessary for the survival of multiplexes, and if this flexibility is lost, the financial viability of multiplexes will be under serious threat.
 
  Being able to charge relatively higher prices on peak shows (like evening shows on weekends) help multiplexes charge lower prices on non-peak shows (like morning shows on weekdays). This helps multiplexes cater to all segments of the market. Loss of this flexibility will actually be counterproductive – if the peak price is capped, the ability of multiplexes to keep lower prices will also be reduced, and hence, this will deprive audiences with limited paying capacity to be able to enjoy a multiplex experience. This will therefore go against the interests of the relatively less affluent sections of the society.
 
  
  
 
  
 Multiplexes make huge investments in world class facilities, cutting edge technology and outstanding service delivery. The experience of watching a movie at a multiplex in India is second to no multiplex anywhere else in the world. These facilities, technology and service cost significantly and multiplexes need to charge ticket prices so as to be able to recover their investments. If there is a price cap, the industry will not be able to make investments in state-of-the-art technology. Features and formats like 3D screens, Dolby Atmos Sound, Laser Projector screens, Screen X, Playhouse/ Junior cinemas, Dolby Cinema, Barco Escape, etc will become unviable and multiplexes will not be able to afford the capex and the opex of such technologies. 
 
  
 It is a myth that multiplexes charge astronomically high prices. Multiplexes only charge prices that the audience are willing to pay. Film entertainment is a discretionary spend. If multiplexes charge such a high price that patrons would not be able to afford it, then people would stop seeing movies, occupancies would start to fall, and this would be counter-productive to the commercial interests of such multiplexes.
 
  
  
 
  
 The two largest multiplex chains in India, which together account for around 50% of multiplex screens in the country, have a combined net profit margin of less than 5%, not even sufficient to provide any return on capital. In fact, most of the other multiplexes are barely able to meet their costs. With huge manpower, electricity and lease rental costs, as also extremely high burden of taxes, most multiplexes are either losing money or making very meagre returns on their investments. This clearly shows that multiplexes are not making humungous profit at the cost of their patrons. If there is a ticket price cap, as is proposed, even those multiplexes that are barely surviving, will start making losses.
 
  
  
 
 
  
 The Government does not control prices of other similar activities, like airlines, amusement centres, hotels, restaurants, etc. There are no price controls on other retail activities as well, like malls, etc. There is no rationale for controlling ticket prices only of cinema theatres, and not any other commercial activity.
 
  
 There does not appear to be any scientific basis for determining the cap of `200. Such arbitrary cap irrespective of the city, the quality of the multiplex, the kind of investments that have been made in the property, etc smacks of irrationality and arbitrariness. There is also no rationale for allowing only 10% "gold-class" seats to be free of a price cap, or for exempting only Imax, and not other advance technologies, from the price cap.
 
  -- With inputs from Niharika.Lal@timesgroup.com
 
  
 
 
