VADODARA: The Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) that had set the ball rolling for their restoration project in March is set to clear the work for the   and Gendigate even as it invited bids for   and Champaner Darwaza. 

 The VMC had invited bids from experienced restoration contractors in March for the two gates. It got only one tender in the first attempt. In the second attempt too only one contractor came forward and the administration has decided to award the work to this contractor.
 
 The civic body has proposed for restoration of Panigate and Gendigate and has forwarded this to the standing committee. The committee has included the works in its agenda and will be deliberating on them on Friday. The civic body has also advertised the tenders for work on Mandvi.
 
 The civic body will be spending Rs 98.1lakh on Panigate and Rs 96.57lakh on Gendigate. Officials said that the agency that has proposed to take up the work has experience of handling such projects across the country including  .
 
 The estimates prepared by the VMC for the Mandvi indicate that it will be spending around Rs 1.19crore on it while Rs 90.8lakh will be spent on Champaner Darwaza. The bids for the two projects will be opened on Saturday.
 
 The VMC had in 2008 set the ball rolling for the renovation of the four gates popularly called as 'Char Darwaza' of the walled city. But the work materialised in right earnest only on the   after chunks of the gate fell in 2013. Some work on the surface of the Panigate was done in 2011, but it was not complete restoration.
 
 The work on the Laheripura Darwaza was conducted by the   (ASI). But in May 2016, the VMC decided to empanel agencies that had expertise in heritage structure renovation and wanted to award work to one of them. Bids were invited for this last year, but the civic body found the rates too high and decided against getting work done through them. VMC then decided to invite bids for each project separately instead of empanelling agencies. VMC is still looking to get the work supervised by ASI.
 
