LUDHIANA: A 13-year-old   in a   refused to keep her   with her. She informed the   about this at the  . An   was conducted on Wednesday afternoon to ascertain the exact age of the victim. 

 The victim’s mother said, " my daughter has accepted she doesn't want to keep the baby. We want her future to be secured despite whatever happened. The team visited us and made inquiries. I hope police catch the accused as soon as possible.” 
 
 District child protection officer, Rashmi, who visited the victim, said, " The safety of the new born is very important. We wanted to know if the victim wants to keep the baby or not or if she is being pressurised to take a decision. During our visit, she said she doesn't want to keep the baby and narrated the incident. Her case will be presented in front of the Child Welfare Commitee (CWC) and their decision will be followed. It is legal procedure and the child will be given to an adoption agency. Anyone who wants to adopt her will have to follow complete legal procedure.” 
 
 Meanwhile, the baby, who was born prematurely, is being taken care of. Both the victim and the newborn will be discharged only after they recover completely. Dr Kulwinder Singh, senior medical officer, civil hospital said, "We were asked to conduct the age assessment test and we have done that. An X-ray has been conducted and reports will come in a day or two. We are giving our best service to the newborn so that her health improves and discharge will be given once her health is perfect and all legal formalities are done.”
 
 The victim delivered a baby girl at a private hospital on Sunday and was later shifted to the Civil Hospital. PAU police registered an FIR against the accused, a vegetable vendor, under sections 376 (rape) and section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Posco) Act, 2012 after the girl got her statement recorded. The district child protection officer visited the victim and will present a case before the Child Welfare Committee (CWC), which will take action.
 
 
