HYDERABAD: An engineer, Shiva Kumar has been on an unsuccessful job hunt for almost two years now. The many professional courses that he completed in the interim, hoping to up his employability quotient, have failed to yield any results and have only left him poorer.

 With his son not finding a job, Shiva’s 60-year-old father continues to work at a private firm for a modest salary of Rs 9,000 a month. His ailing mother too has taken up a part-time tailoring job to make ends meet. She makes close to Rs 2,500.
 
 “I completed my engineering in 2015. Since then I have been aggressively trying to secure a government job, but to no avail. While I try and take up any odd job that comes my way, to support my family, it isn’t enough,” said Shiva, frustration ringing in his voice. The engineering graduate’s monthly earnings seldom cross the Rs 3,000 mark.
 
 Like Shiva, there are close to 25 lakh graduates and post-graduates in Telangana who’ve been waiting for years to secure a government job. Worse, there are another 25 lakh   youth, who have no basic degree, but are in a desperate need of a job to earn a livelihood, show records.
 
 “There are lakhs of candidates who have completed their post-graduation and yet have no jobs. Desperate for employment, many of them take up catering jobs to earn a measly Rs 100-Rs 200 a day,” said  , one of the protesters at Sundarayya Vignana Kendram on Wednesday.
 
 Concurring with this, Srinivas U, an unemployed post-graduate said, “Irrespective of what my qualification is, I am willing to settle for any job that assures a steady pay. I am even ready to work as a library assistant or constable, which requires lesser qualifications. Sadly, even those jobs are hard to come by owing to stiff competition.”
 
 This state of despair among students can be gauged from the heap of PG degree holders’ resumes that the   has received for the post of library assistant. The position requires a candidate to have cleared Class 10. Scores of engineers and post-graduates have also been found lining up for a constable’s job. The required qualification: intermediate for general category candidates. (SC/ST candidates require to have appeared for intermediate first and second year exams).
 
 Not surprisingly then, the district employment officer of Ranga Reddy district has about 60,000 applications lying in her office.
 
 “Every day at least 200 people register in hope of landing a job. Whenever we get intimation about an opening, either in the government or the private sector, we send 20 students for an interview for a single post,” said Padma N, the DEO.
 
