MUMBAI: The state budget was presented on Saturday amid loud protests from the opposition   and  . The BJP-led government's alliance partner,  , which had joined the protests in the run-up to the budget, back-tracked and cooperated during the budget presentation. 

 The opposition has dismissed the farm allocation as misleading. "These so-called allocations to the farm sector are nothing but financial jugglery. The budget is hugely disappointing to farmers," said NCP's  .
 
 "A farm loan waiver will require Rs 30,500 crore, and there is no guarantee the farmer will be out of debt for good. Instead we are investing in the farm sector," countered CM Devendra Fadnavis. He said the state had also approached the Centre to help in extending institutional credit to farmers who had defaulted on loans.
 
 Within the budget's farm sector spend, the main focus is irrigation. The budget allocates Rs 8,233 crore to the water resources department and Rs 1,200 crore for the state's water conservation scheme, the Jalyukta Shivar Yojana. An allocation of Rs 2,812 crore has been made under the PM's Krishi Sinchai Yojana. Another Rs 225 crore has been set aside for its wells and farm ponds scheme and Rs 250 crore for Marathwada's irrigation. A sum of Rs 100 crore has been allocated to micro-irrigation schemes in Vidarbha and Rs 979 crore towards agricultural pumps. In order to boost farm income, the budget has set aside Rs 200 crore to set up Farmer Producer Companies for group farming and marketing. 
 
 Given that Goods and   ( ) is expected to be introduced from July 1, the state government has not introduced any new taxes, nor proposed an increase in taxes, except for liquor and tax on lottery.
 
 Tax on lotteries which are payable by organisers stands increased by Rs 30,000 to Rs 1 lakh. Liquor is out of the GST ambit and with an increase in the VAT rate on MRP of country and foreign liquor to 25.93% from the existing 23.08%, the state will stand to gain. 
 
 For the purpose of compensation to the state, under GST, the annual growth rate of 14% on the revenue for the financial year 2015-16 shall be considered. The compensation amount shall also include octroi in Mumbai (approx Rs 6,500 crore) and local body tax. 
 
 The budget has exempted sugarcane purchase tax from 2015-2017 to sugar factories. This will generate Rs 700 crore which they could use to pay the cane price to farmers, it says. The budget also exempts the 13.5% VAT on card swipe machines to encourage cashless transactions.
 
 In line with the Centre's budget, the state budget has merged plan and non-plan expenditure. The change will bring more flexibility to each department to use their department allocation instead of only the plan component, which is only 25% of the total size of the budget, the state says.
 
 
