LUCKNOW: UP will be in a position to wheel in an additional 2000MW of power from its own resources in the coming week with as many as four power   expected to come out of their maintenance schedule.

 To begin with, two units of 660MW each in   would be fired up to produce 1320MW of power on Monday. Of the two, Unit-III had closed down on March 19 for maintenance work, while Unit-II went off the grid two days ago following a boiler tube leakage.
 
 This would be followed by a 660MW unit in Bara power plant which tripped because of a snag in the boiler. Likewise, a 110MW unit of Tanda too is expected to get operational by May 4. The NTPC owned unit went off the grid after it was closed down for annual overhauling on April 1, according to the  .
 
 The revival of the units comes at a time when demand for power notches close to 16000MW forcing the state government to resort to other arrangements, including power trading to meet the ever rise in demand.   estimates the demand for power would touch 17000MW in the next couple of months, given state government’s commitment to provide round-the-clock power supply to urban and at least 18 hours to rural areas. Notwithstanding the promise, some districts continue to face repeated power cuts because of local electricity distribution problems, UPPCL officials said.
 
 Sources said UPPCL was already in talks with other states to get more power through bilateral trading arrangements. Already, the corporation is buying around 600MW power through bilateral trading. This is apart from state government pushing forth to get power from the energy exchange at relatively cheaper rates. According to records, UPPCL is at present purchasing around 1000MW of power the exchange, while another 400MW is being wheeled into the grid from the co-gen   set up in the functioning sugar mills.
 
 As a matter of fact, UP has been getting a significant support from the central pool. Records, updated till April 29, show that the state got close to 7000MW from the central sector.
 
 
