PUNE: Whoever thought toilets could be put to so many uses? Just blame it on the ingenuity of villagers in  . 

 For want of better uses of toilets that have been foisted on them by the state administration, the residents of Garmal   have thought of novel ways to turn them into   or as places for safekeeping. 
 
 Godubai Palwe, a villager, would rather have a concrete roof over her head than a spanking new toilet in her dilapidated shanty. “At least it would protect us during the monsoon,” reasoned Palwe. She and others in her village are confused over the government’s priority on building toilets. But they have decided not to oppose construction of toilets as they think they can be put to better use as storerooms or for keeping valuables.
 
 “We live in mud houses which get inundated during the monsoon. We don’t know any government scheme which will help us to build houses, but some people are now saying that we will get money if we construct toilets. Whatever it is, if we get a cement structure we can use it for many purposes” she says. The women here felt that the bigger the size of the toilet, the better as they could take shelter in it during heavy rains.
 
 Toilets are hardly of any use in the village as it faces acute water scarcity. “There are some toilets here, but hardly anyone uses them. There is perennial water scarcity. If we are struggling to get drinking water during the monsoon, how can people be expected to use precious water in toilets?” asked Mangal Mahale who runs a small grocery shop.
 
 A state officials who has worked on the sanitation campaign in Nashik district said, “We have put in lots of efforts to convince people not to use toilets for keeping valuables but they are unwilling to pay any heed to our advice,” he said adding that some women wanted to keep pictures of idols in toilets.
 
 However, in Ahmednagar, villagers have already started using toilets but for bathing and washing clothes. “Earlier women use to bath in open. Now with toilets they can take a bath safely” said Yelubai, a villager in Akole taluka. 
 
 Sanitation expert Gourisankar Ghosh, who played a pivotal role in launching India’s first cleanliness and sanitation campaign in 1980s, felt   isn’t a people’s programme. “It is time the government step back and do a mid-course correction and also tap the private sector in the mission. There is more publicity than proper communication that has left the people confused,” he said.
 
 
