PUNE: Citizens had to wait for long hours in serpentine queues for property registrations as all 500 IGR offices across the state had to stop the process with the server remaining down for most parts of Monday.

 The system was restored late in the evening, but hundreds of people had lost an entire working day by then. Sanjay Awti was one of them. He works with a Mumbai-based private company and had taken a day's leave to get his registration work done at the Inspector General of Registration and Controller of Stamps department.
 
 Awti waited for four hours at the Haveli registration office here, only to be told that the server was down.
 
 His lawyer, Amitabh Mehta, said, “My client will now have to wait till Tuesday . There was no communication from the IGR office that the system will not be functional during the day . There should be some mechanism in place during such situations. People come from far-off places and they suffer a lot under such circumstances.“
 
 Sharad Janardhan   had come to Pune all the way from   only after confirming his appointment on Monday . He, too, failed to get his registration done. Advocate  , who was helping Lokhande with the work, said the system at the IGR office “often crashes“.
 
 He added, “At a time when we are moving towards the digital mode in all transactions, the government should be capable to tide over such technical challenges.“
 
 Senior citizen B Fernandes, whose release deed was supposed to be registered on Monday , had to return home after an agonizing wait at the office. Inspector General of Re gistration of Stamps (IGR) Anil Kawade attributed the snag to the less space on the server and the time taken to register data back-up. “We told the officials to collect the documents manually . But most people preferred to wait to complete the process digitally,“ he told TOI.
 
 The citizens, however, claimed that such “system failures“ were not uncommon at the IGR offices. “Why can't they make the process simpler and have a good technical system in place?“ asked  , who too faced a harrowing time on Monday .
 
 “It's a major issue with all the offices,“ said   who helps out with documentation. “Such incidents are frequent and several complaints have not helped,“ he said.
 
 Kawade admitted to the citizens' complaints about the frequent technical faults and said discussions were on with the   (NIC) to ensure that a technically sound system was in place.
 
 Another concern area for several citizens was the e-payment system, GRAS, which was also not working since Saturday .
 
 “I have contacted the revenue ministry to resolve the problem. But the work was not done with Saturday and Sunday being holidays. I had seven documents of clients from various parts of the state and they would now have to wait until Tuesday ,“ advocate Mehta said.
 
 The government receipt accounting system (GRAS) has been put in place by the finance department. Among the departments collecting taxes via online methods is IGR.
 
 
