On his   through America,   plans to take his social mission of spreading happiness forward
Nitesh Square sure knows how to  . He goes on trips and requests people to give him hugs; in return, he gifts them a   on the spot.
 
 This unique initiative is his way of making society a tad better place to live in by helping people overcome their fears, and spreading happiness.
 
 The 29-year-old former journalist-turned-photographer is now gearing up for a cross-country road trip called "Fiazi Safar 2017" across North America in June. And though demonetisation initially put a spanner on his plans with sponsors backing out, Nitesh is going ahead with the trip and if required, is ready to spend his savings on it.
 
 Milaap.org, a crowdfunding portal, has provided him a platform to raise funds. As of Tuesday, Nitesh has been able to pool in Rs 1.4 lakh, well short of his Rs 10 lakh target.
 
 "Some of the sponsors, who had promised to fund my trip, backed out because of the impact of demonetisation. But I just woke up one day and decided to go ahead with it," said the photographer, who used to work as a journalist in Ahmedabad before moving to Mumbai in 2009.
 
 Last year, Nitesh covered 15,000 km across India in four months to collect hugs and gift pictures. The idea was to help people address their fear of the unknown and take the leap of faith with strangers.
 
 "Earlier, we had the barter system, which taught people to place trust in strangers. That is missing now. These days, people are living in fear and apprehension. My main objective is to help them overcome this," explained Nitesh, who is upbeat about undertaking a similar journey from New York to California within a span of three months. This time, he will be covering 12,000 km to spread cheer among the Americans.
 
 His first brush with travel was in 2014 when he journeyed 1,000 miles from Mumbai to Delhi with no cash. He followed up the "penniless march", as it was called, with another one in 2015. He undertook a 45-day journey in Thailand, Malaysia, Vietnam and Cambodia. "We take so much from the world; I wanted to give back what the world had provided me. I also wanted to see how people react to a stranger and how keen they are to take that leap of faith," he said. Struggle is nothing new to Nitesh, who had quite a rough patch in his initial days in Mumbai, which included taking refuge at Mahim station for a couple of days.
 
 The turning point in his life, however, came when he went back to Ahmedabad to understand the "philos ophy" of a cafe, which did not charge its cus tomers. "The cafe simply gave diners an envelope at the end of the meal and they put whatever amount they deemed fit," said Nitesh, who imbibed the same practice in his photography profession. "Why restrict art to people who can afford it?" he asked.
 
 Mayukh Choudhury, co-founder & CEO at Milaap, hailed the initiative. "It is heartening to see people like Nitesh use fundraising for causes other than the conventional ones."
 
