AHMEDABAD: As many as 107 people, including 48 children, from   in the city were hospitalized at   early on Sunday after they showed symptoms of  .

  The ailing persons said they had Doodhi no Halwo and Biryani at the weeding feast after which they became ill.
 
 The victims said they had nausea, vomiting and diarrhoea just a couple of hours after eating doodhi no halwo (a sweet dish made of bottlegourd and milk-cake) and biryani at the feast in Fatehwadi area of Juhapura.
 
 Doctors said that around 20 people were discharged after their condition improved while the others are stable. Incidentally, this food poisoning incident occurred on the day after daily temperatures started rising.
 
  Dr Kuldeep Joshi, resident medical officer of V S hospital, said the victims were from Juhapura. 
 
 “The 48 children and 59 adults were brought to VS hospital at around 2 am on Sunday after they complained of nausea, diarrhea and vomiting. They said they had eaten Doodhi no Halwo and Biryani at a wedding fearst after which they became ill,” Joshi said.
 
 Joshi said that as many as 23 female patients were kept in ward number-1 and 36 male patients were admitted in ward number 10. All the 48 children were under observation of paediatricians in ward number 13.
 
 Shayrabano Pathan, whose 80-year-old grandmother  , has been hospitalized said that she began experiencing symptoms of food poisoning with severe vomiting, dehydration and abdominal pain. “She just had two spoons of the sweet dish and, after an hour or so, she started showing symptoms of food poisoning,” Pathan said.
 
 Another patient named   (36), said that she too had consumed the sweet dish at the wedding. “A couple of hours after the feast, I had vomiting and diarrhoea. I first went to a private doctor in Juhapura but as my condition was not improving, I was referred to VS hospital,” Mushrat Bano said.
 
 Mohammed Imran Rangrej, whose seven family members including three kids, have been hospitalised said they had to rush to VS hospital. “No hospital in Juhapura is well-equipped to admit such a large number of patients,” Rangrej said.
 
 His 1-year-old niece Anaya, three-year-old son Irfan, and 4-year-old nephew Hamza had also fallen ill due to food poisoning. “Their condition improved only after 4-5 hours of treatment,” he said.
 
