JAISALMER: The   of two   who were allegedly raped by a member from upper caste met the chairperson of   on Tuesday demanding justice. 

 The father, a resident of Barmer, claimed that despite filing two complaints — one one September 22, 2016 and the other on January 10 this year — police have failed to take any action against the accused. The complaint states, his two daughters — aged 17 years and 15 years — were raped by a person from upper caste who also made videography of the whole brutality and made it viral. Chairperson of the commission Manan Chaturvedi, during a meeting with victims’ father n Jaisalmer on Tuesday, assured him that necessary actions will be taken and directed the child welfare committee (CWC) to look in to the matter.
 
 It has been written in the complaint that two sisters were harassed by one Sumer Singh and his friend Jagraj, who first raped the elder sister and filmed the whole incident. Threatening to make the video clip viral, the duo raped her repeatedly and targeted the younger sister later. A case of eve-teasing was lodged by the father on September 22 and later a   complaint against 20 persons including Sumer and an anganwadi worker was filed under SC/ST and POCSO was filed with Chauhatan police station in Barmer on January 13. Two victims were sent for medical examination on January 13. 
 
 Barmer SP Gangan Deen Singhala said, “We are investigating the complete case and and collecting the evidence. We will take action on culprits.”
 
 On the other hand, Chaturvedi on Tuesday met the victims at the circuit house and took information by meeting various representatives of both sides. She directed CWC member Navneet Pachaeri and Rajaram Saraf, president of Barmer to investigate the matter at their level. She also took information from district collector Sudhir Sharma, SP Gagandeep Singla and SHO Prabhati Lal and gave necessary directions.
 
 While talking to media, Chaturvedi said police are investigating the case and she has directed CWC to investigate at their level. The chairperson said that the girls will be sent to a girls’ home in Jodhpur for rehabilitation on priority basis.
 
 
