CHENNAI: If cutting and smuggling trees are the bane of forests, not felling over-aged trees is that of forest department-owned   headquartered in Kanyakumari district.

 Periodical cutting and replanting of trees are compulsory for   to generate optimum yield, but this has been postponed twice in the corporation owing to alleged political interference. As a result, the corporation is saddled with 40 and 50-year-old trees that generate little yield.
 
 Officials in the forest department told TOI that in October last year, e-tender was floated by the managing director of Arasu Rubber Corporation to cut 56,000 trees in the 10,900 acre estates spread over five divisions based on a board meeting decision taken on September 19, 2016. The 56,000 trees earmarked for cutting could be worth more than Rs 15 crore. 
 
 As per the   norms, the trees were to be slaughter-tapped (extraction of maximum latex from the trees) and cut and removed within five months of the award of the tender. When trees in most estates are felled before they reach 30-35 years of age, and when their girth is less than 40 inches, some   in the Arasu Rubber Corporation have 80 inches girth, a clear indication that they have outlived their utility.
 
 Soon after floating the tender, the then managing director   went on leave. The department appointed Kayarat Mohandas, based out of Trichy, as the managing director in charge. He cancelled the tender on October 20, 2016, said a highly placed source. 
 
 In the subsequent board meeting held on November 25, 2016, the cancellation of the auction was ratified and the e-auction was changed to tender-cum-auction ( manual auction). While there is little scope for interference in e-auction, manual auction can be subverted by cartels and intimidation, and the rubber tree auction is no different, says the source. An e-auction will not only open it up but also ensure transparency. 
 
 Once Dogra returned to duty, he called for another tender and the date for tender-cum-auction for sale of rubber trees was fixed for January 20 and 21, 2017 at Nagercoil. This time the tender was cancelled on January 19, citing  .
 
 When contacted, Dogra said, due to the protests, many contractors from different parts of the state were unable to reach Nagercoil in time. “Maybe within a month a fresh tender will be floated and the auction will be conducted,” he said.
 
 Despite having more than 3 lakh ready-to-cut trees worth several crore rupees in its estates, the corporation is struggling to pay salaries to its employees and has ended up taking high-interest loans. 
 
 
