Nagpur: Creating history of sorts since its inception, the   (RSC) has crossed one crore visitor mark in 2017. Till date, it has received 1,00,44,963 visitors. The centre, set up to simplify and popularize science among the masses, completed 25 years on March 7.

 As part of the silver jubilee celebration, the RSC organized a programme in which former regional director of Atomic Mineral Directorate for Exploration and Research (Nagpur), Dr Amit Majumdar, was the chief guest. RSC coordinator N Ramdas Iyer and Government Medical College and Hospital occupational therapy department head, Dr Sofia Azad, were among those present on occasion. A large number of citizens, students and teachers were also present on the occasion.
 
 Narrating the history of RSC, Iyer said, “Till 1985, the place near Gandhisagar lake, where the centre stands today, was a garbage dump. A few citizens came forward and developed the piece of land into a garden. In 1987, the garden was thrown open for public. Later, it was decided to convert the garden into a centre so as to popularize science. Thus came into existence the Raman Science Centre, which was inaugurated on March 7, 1992, by the then Prime Minister PV Narasimha Rao.”
 
 “Five years before the centre was officially inaugurated, a mobile science exhibition concept was introduced,” said RSC education officer, AK Bhelave. Since then, the RSC has been conducting mobile science exhibitions wherein a van carrying various science models travels extensively in rural areas of Vidarbha to explain and demonstrate scientific principles. Till date, the mobile expo has covered 1,832 schools, reaching out to over 50 lakh students. In a way, the mobile exhibition has reached every district of the region more than 10 times, he added.
 
 Addressing school students, Dr Majumdar said, “People have various misconceptions regarding radiation. Many believe radiation is harmful for human beings. However, contrary to the popular belief, radiation can be used for medicinal purposes as it has the potential to cure cancer. There is nothing to be afraid of it.”
 
 The programme took an interactive turn when a lady, cancer patient who had undergone chemotherapy, stood up asked Dr Majumdar about the ill-effects of radiation emitted by mobile towers. Dr Majumdar answered, “There is still no authentic proof that radiation from mobile towers can be dangerous. He explained that any radiation above a certain intensity can only be harmful.”
 
 RSC, in the last 15 days, organized various activities for students and teachers. A special exhibition on ‘Glimpses of Nagpur’ and new 3D show ‘Dinosaurs: Patagonia’ was also inaugurated on the occasion.
 
 
