JODHPUR:   of all the constituent hospitals of   in Jodhpur have called an   demanding arrest of all the four accused, who had beaten up three resident doctors of M G Hospital on Monday night.

 The resident doctors struck work from Tuesday night stating that unless all the four accused, against whom a complaint had been given to the police, were arrested, they would not resume work.
 
 “We have given a complaint to the police with the names of four persons. But none of them has been arrested so far. Unless they are arrested, we have decided to suspend work in all the hospitals associated with the medical college,” said Sukh Dev Choudhary, president of Jodhpur resident doctors association.
 
 According to the report, an old woman was admitted in the CCU of M G Hospital, who passed away late on Monday night. Accusing the doctors of negligence in attending to the woman, her attendants and relatives turned violent and started beating the doctors present there.
 
 Three resident doctors on duty Rajat Gupta, Ravi Rana and Sandeep Dadheech were badly injured in the brawl. One of the attackers allegedly hit a doctor with a tubelight.
 
 Choudhary said that Dr Gupta sustained intra-orbital fracture below his left eye and is undergoing treatment in the ICU.
 
 In fact, one of the accused, Mahendra Ratnani, is a government doctor.
 
 Principal of the college Amilal Bhat said that alternative arrangements have been made to handle the situation in hospitals in the wake of this strike.
 
 “We held a meeting of all the heads of the departments in the evening and took assurance from them that all the necessary alternative arrangements would be put in place,” said Bhat.
 
 Besides this, some doctors have been arranged from district hospitals, who will resume their duties from Wednesday in order to compensate for the absence of resident doctors.
 
 Prior to this, in a meeting with striking doctors, Bhat urged them to give police 48 hours to arrest the accused, but they did not agree and decided to go on indefinite strike.
 
 
