BHUBANESWAR: People across the state reeled under an intense   on Monday. The   has issued an orange alert, a   in the state for the next two days. 

  recorded 46.2°C, the highest temperature at any place this season on Monday. "The heat wave situation is likely to persist till May 20 and temperature may increase another one degree in the interior areas, said director of IMD, Bhubaneswar Centre, Sarat Chandra Sahu. 
 
 Life was thrown out of gear in the state as at least five urban centres recorded temperature   and 16 centres recorded above 40°C on Monday.
 
 "It is like an undeclared curfew in most towns in western Odisha as the heat is quite unbearable even at seven in the morning. Unless anyone has an urgent work one should not go out as it may turn fatal," said Newton Ray, a resident of Sambalpur town where mercury reached 45.7°C on Monday. 
 
 The crippling water shortage and unscheduled power cuts in several parts of the state has made life miserable for the common man. People in Keonjhar's Telkoi block have called a 12-hour bandh on Monday protesting frequent power outages in the region. 
 
 Expressing concern over the rising temperature experts blamed the rise in temperature essentially to the loss of forest cover in western and central Odisha and drying up of rivers and water bodies.
 
 Forest cover of Odisha must be increased substantially by proper management of water like construction of some 60, 000 micro dams in the mountainous parts of the state. "All major rivers of the state must be revived through an extensive programme of dredging. Once rivers die civilizations die. The state must revive all dying ponds," said Nachiketa Das, geologist. 
 
 Environmentalists said the state government must make it mandatory to install solar panels, rain water harvesting, and roof top gardening, Das said. 
 
 Rising temperatures have reportedly killed 38 people across the state so far while the state government has confirmed five deaths due to sunstroke this season. 
 
