Patna: The BJP protested against the Nitish Kumar government in both Houses of the Bihar legislature on Friday for serving show-cause notices on several IAS officials who had left their headquarters without permission and formed a human chain at Raj Bhavan on February 26 to oppose the arrest of their colleague Sudhir Kumar.

 The 1987-batch IAS official Sudhir had been arrested in connection with the Bihar Staff Selection Commission examination paper leak case. 
 
 BJP members entered the wells of both Houses on Friday and shouted slogans against the state government for its “dictatorial attitude” towards civil servants. “The prevailing scenario in Bihar is almost similar to the situation during the Emergency under Congress rule,” leader of the opposition in legislative council Sushil Kumar Modi told journalists.
 
 The disagreement between the state government and the bureaucracy in Bihar over the February 24 arrest of Sudhir has worsened. Sources said the Bihar chapter of the IAS Officers’ Association is likely to convey its stand on the show-cause notices to its central body, which has already supported its stand.
 
 “The Bihar chapter can convey the matter to the IAS Officers’ (Central) Association stating that the state government is trying to take disciplinary or punitive action against them. However, the DMs would be charged guilty (sic) if they had not taken the consent of their divisional commissioners to leave their respective district headquarters. In that case, even the central IAS association would not be able to do anything,” said V S Dubey, a retired chief secretary of undivided Bihar.
 
 “However, if the officers had come to Patna after taking the requisite permission and the state government is still pressuring them, then the central IAS association may communicate the matter to the government of India to seek intervention,” he added.
 
 Sources said the general administration department issued show-cause notices on Thursday to 18 district magistrates, including those of Aurangabad, Jehanabad, Gaya, West Champaran, East Champaran and Nalanda, to explain within two weeks whose permission they had taken to leave their place of posting to participate in the IAS Officers’ Association meeting and form a human chain at Raj Bhavan. Sources claimed the DMs of eight districts had taken permission for leave on February 26 citing various reasons. 
 
 Sources claimed a show-cause notice has also been served on the Bihar chapter of the IAS Officers’ Association to explain the grounds on which it opposes the state government and the action taken by the police against Sudhir Kumar. “This is an attack on our liberty. We are not going to sit silent. We will convene a meeting soon to chalk out our course of action,” said an IAS Officers Association (Bihar chapter) functionary of principal secretary rank.
 
 State government sources said chief minister Nitish Kumar may initiate departmental proceedings against the officers to set an example and had said as much in the assembly on February 28.
 
 
