BHOPAL: Some 200 students, who were awarded LLB degree (three-year) by   in past five years, face uncertain future for no fault of theirs. The university, oldest in the state and in existence for more than 6 decades, is running the course without bothering to get an affiliation of  . In the absence of council’s affiliation, as norms lay down, they cannot enroll themselves with state bar council, making them ineligible to pratice law. 

 Students over the years tried to highlight the issue before the authorities of the university, but nothing fruitful came off it and no remedial action taken all these days. Tired of the indifference of authorities, poor students have decided to attend university from January 30 this year by wearing black bands.
 
 Surprisingly, all this is happening in university whose founder, Sir Hari Singh Gour, the first Indian vice-chancellor of Delhi University, was top jurist of his times. 
 
 Frustrated with the sad state of affairs, Students have even decided to attend university from January 30, 2017 by wearing black bands. “It is to tell everyone about wrong doing by the university,” students told TOI. The student intake per batch was 40 students.
 
 The council shot off a letter to the university on January 23 this year asking the university to get approval in next 15 days. Any failure will lead to invalid degrees distributed since 2011. In 2010, the council had informed university to take affiliation from it. 
 
 In the letter written to university, the council stated that the law department had approval for 3-year law course till 2010-11.
 
 Students say their future hangs in the balance. “Our degree has no meaning, if the course is not affiliated by the Bar Council of India. I am worried about my future,” said a student without quoting his name. 
 
 Another student, requesting anonymity, said, “It is not a private college. It is a central university. If such issues plague the university, it raises question mark over standard of education,” said another student. 
 
 When contacted, registrar   said the university received the letter on the issue from the Bar Council of India. “We are trying to sort out the issue. We are confident the issue would be over soon,” she said. 
 
 Rajesh Vyas, president,   says: There is no meaning of such degree. University or college cannot degree without affiliation of the Bar Council of India. 
 
 The legal education committee of the council at its meeting on October 23 in 2016 looked into the issue of law colleges, who applied for approval of affiliation after two or three years from the date of expiry of approval of affiliation. After considering the matter, the committee was of the view the principle of Justice Kurian Joseph sub-committee was to be applied to those colleges, who had not applied in time for further extension of affiliation. 
 
 The council directed the university to pay Rs 10 lakh to regularise admissions made by the law department for academic year 2011-12 to 2015-16 in respect of 3-year LLB course for purpose of enrolment of students who were admitted during these years and are unable to get enrolled in state bar councils on account of non-extension of approval of affiliation. 
 
 The law department was asked to deposit Rs 3.5 lakh as inspection and application fee from 2017-18. 
 
 The council sought information from the university’s law department regarding BA-LLB (5-year integrated course). The council stated that the law department of the university had approval for affiliation of 5-year law course till 2005-06. Since then, there was no approval of running the same course in the university. The council sought information whether any student was admitted to the five-year course or not since 2006-07. The council added that the issue would be considered after receiving the information from the university.
 
 
