HYDERABAD: Lightning Kills 6 In State, Heavy Rain May Lash City Till Oct 1
In a parting shot, the southwest monsoon, which is all set to recede in a couple of days, turned vigorous over Hyderabad and parts of   on Wednesday bringing in copious rainfall.
 
 Thunder showers were witnessed in the city and parts of the state, particularly Mahbubnagar district. There may be thunder showers over the next four days.
 
 Lightning claimed six lives and left four severely injured in Telangana -three in Mahbubnagar, two in   and one in   districts - on Wednesday. The lightning activity was quite unusual during the receding phase of the monsoon. Wednesday's heavy rainfall would boost the groundwater table in the city.
 
 With the India Meteorological Department (IMD) predicting heavy rainfall in the next two days, the southwest monsoon might recede early next week. The city is likely to get rainfall towards evening till October 1.
 
 The retreating southwest monsoon would herald the northeast monsoon. Only a few areas of Telangana are served by the northeast monsoon though there have been occasions when Hyderabad received heavy to very heavy rainfall even during late October. According to weather experts, the southwest monsoon has been delayed due to continuous formation of cyclonic storms and depression in the   and the Indian Ocean.
 
 Many parts of Hyderabad on Wednesday received heavy rainfall inundating low-lying areas. Moderate to heavy rainfall is likely to occur in the city even beyond September 30. “The cyclonic circulation over  , now lies over north coastal   and adjoining Odisha and neighbourhood,“ an IMD Hyderabad weather bulletin said, adding that the southwest monsoon over Telangana was normal since Tuesday .
 
 Explaining the delay in recession of southwest monsoon this year, private weather forecasting agency, Skymet said, “This year, withdrawal of monsoon has been delayed considerably. One after another cyclonic systems have been developing over Odisha coast that further moved towards central India and sometimes even up to southeast Rajasthan and Gujarat. These systems had kept the monsoon active over the region."
 
