Kolkata: Mayor Sovan Chatterjee on Tuesday unveiled a multicrore beautification plan for   amidst protests from green activists over cosmetic makeover and concretization of the 3-acre green patch.

 While environmentalists welcomed the reopening of the square with a waterbody that has been shut for nearly three decades after it was embroiled in controversy in the late 1980s, they questioned the beautification drive that involved paving with concrete and allowing cars into a park. 
 
 Chatterjee, who toured the park on two successive days, brushed aside objections from green activists and a ruling by the National Green Tribunal against allowing cars into Rawdon Square and said Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) was determined to carry out the work that it had begun. 
 
 “We will clear the overgrowth, restore the waterbody, create a pathway around it with paver blocks, create proper seating arrangements and a separate enclosure for children,” the mayor said. He has already sanctioned Rs 2 crore for the project.
 
 Rawdon Square had come into the limelight after Kolkata Police and PWD decided to turn it into a parking lot. But outcry by citizens led to the expansion plan being dumped. 
 
 Kolkata Police promised to keep the remaining green portion and maintain it as well but refused to relent on the parking lot. NGO Public then went to the NGT. The green bench ordered to stop work but paving the ground had continued. NGT issued a second stop-work notice that has now prompted the mayor to step in and back the project. 
 
 The mayor claimed that the beautification project would follow the Victoria Square model. Though KMC did play a part, it was schoolchildren under the guidance of Public that had done much of the work before KMC stepped in. Furthermore, no area was encroached like it is being done at Rawdon Square. 
 
 Bonani Kakkar of Public welcomed the civic body’s decision to reopen Rawdon Square but did not agree with its definition of beautification. “Any attempt to concretize the space in and around the waterbody will mean gobbling up green space. That is against green norms. Also, treat a park as a park, not a parking lot,” she said.
 
 
