JAISALMER: In the name of renovating  , a village that lies 18 km away from Jaisalmer and was abandoned by Paliwal Brahmins many years ago, the basic structures are being tampered with. The old ruined houses are being removed by earthmovers and efforts are being made to give the place a new look. This 200-year-old architecture is under crisis. The work is being done by a private company on   (PPP) mode without the supervision of experts.

 Till now more than 18 houses have been removed from their place. Other houses too have been tampered with which is endangering this heritage. Many tourists, historians and local people have expressed their shock over tampering with the basic houses in Kuldhara. They have all have condemned the face and expressed concern. They are of the view that the district administration and art and culture department are not paying any attention towards this development.
 
 The state governemtn and a private company had signed a memorandum of understanding ( MoU) for restoration of Kuldhara village. The work to restore and conserve the heritage began recently.
 
 Abha   has been given the responsibility to restore this 200-year-old abandoned village. However, people told TOI that till now 18 houses have been demolished and a new stone road is being laid in place of the old one. They added that new construction is going on amid old houses and now with the parking lot also being constructed in the middle of the village, it will absolutely ruin the aesthetic look of the village. Lakhs of people come to see this abandoned village, but if such work continues then Kuldhara will lose its existence and a new village will come up instead, said a local.
 
 Sumar Ram, a resident of Kuldhara who now works as a guard said, “I have spent my entire life here, now looking at these changes is very distressing. Kuldhara is losing its existence and there is no one to listen to us. People come here to see the old village, but if such work in the name of restoration continues then Kuldhara will lose its original form completely.”
 
 American tourist John who was at Kuldhara said, “No heritage site should go through all this. The fascinating story I’d heard about Kuldhara is not about this place, this place seems strange to me. This abandoned village should be restored without changing its basic form and as per its image. Constructing parking area in the middle of the village is beyond understanding and tourists will not be lured.”
 
 Famous historian   lamented that tampering with the original form and appearance of Kuldhara is really very sad. The company is demolishing old houses and going ahead with new construction, which will not only kill the original appearance but also the history and lore that is attached with it.
 
 Sharma said, “Messing up with cultural heritage is not at all fair and construction is on without the supervision of experts. If this goes on then tourists will stop coming to this place.”
 
 He said that the opinion of historians was not taken before construction at Kuldhara began and also no meeting of experts was called.
 
 Virendra Kavia, deputy director of state art and culture department said that the company incharge of the project has been warned about tampering with the original form. He added that there was no reason to remove old houses and he has asked for a report regarding this.
 
 The superintendent of art and culture department, Jodhpur zone, B L Maurya said, “This work should be carried out under the supervision of experts and in the MoU that has been signed with the company there was no clause to remove old structures. We have asked for complete information on this. There should be no tampering in any form.”
 
 As per the MoU signed with the state government, around Rs 10 crore will be spent on the work. The company was warned not to tamper with the original form after the MoU, but it seems that despite that the company did not pay any heed to the warning.
 
