CHANDIGARH: This college seat doesn’t depend on any cutoff. There’s choice and flexibility. Plus, it’s abroad and in a fancied institute. Foreign education—instead of waiting to be graduated, the students from Chandigarh are going for it now, after Class XII.

 The huge variety of courses and the flexibility to change the major and minor subjects anytime has attracted them to overseas institutions. This year, more than 15 students from Tricity will fly to top universities of North America and other continents in August and September for courses of their choice.
 
 Shreya Bali was seduced by the option to do research during undergraduate programme. “The education quality abroad is better, and we can do research while in college. No Indian college offers that. If one looks for a postgraduate course abroad later, they ask for portfolio and research work etc. Moreover, the university I am going to has a research centre that builds real-life products that make it to market actually. One can never imagine something like this in an Indian undergraduate course.” She is off to Carnegie Mellon in the US to study artificial intelligence and computer science.
 
 Chakitan Puri, who is going to the University of Cincinnati in the US to pursue computer science, looks for stability, while job opportunity is the reasons why Bhavan Pahuja is joining Concordia University in  . Along with the knowledge of computer engineering, he hopes to get quality exposure.
 
 Muskaan Goyal, headed to the University of California at Berkley, to study astrophysics, is excited at the prospects of pursuing her stargazing hobby. “The dual-certificate option abroad helps you pick any course related to your hobby. This is not possible in India,” she said.
 
 Another Class XII pass-out, Raika Sethi, had no way to incorporate her musical talent into academics in India. Not many options, so she searched abroad. She is now going to Purdue University in the US to pursue music and psychology. “I want to be a music therapist, but I can’t do it in India, because you can’t club music and psychology.” She wishes to return to India after the degree “to payback the country”.
 
 Parul Singh Kanwar, off to the University of Alberta, Canada, to pursue creative writing, said: “I like to write about environmental issues. Abroad, I can shift my course any time I want, or study something parallel on the sides.” For Khushi Gupta, the clinching factor was “the availability of a course best for me”—acturial science (discipline that applies mathematical and statistical methods to assess risk in insurance, finance, and other industries)—which has not picked up in India, so far. She is going to Illinois at Urbana-Champagne, US.
 
 Kunwar Pradeep is flying to the University of Florida to pursue acturial science and business management. What works for him is the flexibility of dual course. Sukhman Dhillon, headed to the University of Washington for computer science degree, likes the promise of flexibility and exposure.
 
 Many of the foreign-flying students aren’t from the elite bracket of scores above 95%. They and their parents now don’t despair. “The best part is that the universities abroad look at your passion and not just your marks. They look at not what you have done but what you are capable of doing,” said Sukhman Dhillon, who says he will return to India after studies.
 
