CHENNAI: A   helped police identify the victim of a murder and catch the killer who had left the body near a stretch of railway tracks in   late on Tuesday night.

 Investigators on Thursday identified the victim as Dhanasekaran, 23, an airport employee who worked in the facility’s cargo section.
 
 “We recovered the body from the railway tracks on Wednesday,” an investigating officer said. “In his pocket, we found a suburban train ticket for a Tuesday night journey from   to  .”
 
 The Vyasarpadi police contacted the Thirumullaivoyal police to help establish the victim’s identity and his address. Pictures of the man, identifying him as Dhanasekaran, had been circulating on a local WhatsApp group after he went missing on Tuesday, police officers found.
 
 When police made inquiries in the locality, some residents said the victim’s wedding took place on Monday. This initially led police to believe that the marriage was the motive for the crime.
 
 “Dhanasekaran had married Ranjani, 21, a nursing student and his girlfriend of three years, only a day before the murder,” the officer said. “We contacted Ranjani and members of his family, who said Dhanasekaran usually took a train from Thirumullaivoyal to Chennai Central.”
 
 “Ranjani told us that Dhanasekaran left home on Tuesday afternoon after receiving a call from his friend   alias Guganraj, 22,” the officer said. “He said Settu had promised to give him Rs 5,000 as a loan and that Dhanasekaran left home to get the money.”
 
 When Dhanasekaran failed to return, his family started a search for him and went to Settu’s house, but the man was missing. They tried to call Settu on his cellphone but found the device switched off. Investigators launched a search for Settu and took him into custody. During interrogation, Settu told police officers that he had a fight with Dhanasekaran, who demanded the money and was furious when Settu rebuffed him.
 
 “The two men exchanged blows and Settu, finding a boulder in the vicinity, used it to smash Dhanasekaran’s head,” the officer said. “Dhanasekaran died on the spot and Settu fled the scene.”
 
 Police arrested Settu and charged him with murder. A court remanded him in prison in judicial custody.
 
