JAIPUR:   list announced by the Centre on Wednesday has two names from Rajasthan –  , the Hindustani classical music instrumentalist, for the Padam Bhushan, while  , the maestro painter, for the Padam Shri. 

 Bhatt, apart from his exemplary services in the field of Hindustani classical music, is also the creator of Mohan Veena and is a recipient of Grammy Award.
 
 Talking to TOI over phone from Mumbai, Bhatt said, “I have been inclined towards music since my childhood, but I never thought of winning awards or acclaims. Even today I am just into my music without bothering if I am competent enough to get any award.” 
 
 However, Bhatt who was performing at St Xavier’s College in Mumbai on Wednesday evening, said these acclaims from the government of India give satisfaction. “To me music is a journey which is ongoing. You can’t say that I have achieved everything and can now stop. One has to keep moving,” said Bhatt.
 
 Another name that features in the list is Tilak Gitai, an acclaimed miniature and Phad painter. Craftsman and sculptor with a contribution of over 30 years, Gitai is named for Padma Shri. Born in 1949, Gitai hails from the second generation of royal court painters patronized by the rulers of Bikaner. 
 
 “I am extremely glad that government is honoring me for my work. As an artist, it is the appreciation that matters, rest everything will follow. I will keep contributing to the field of art,” said Gitai. Adding, he said, “I must add that this recognition would not have come if the whole process of nominations were not made transparent. Government must receive applause for this.”
 
 Gitai specializes in making paintings on different surfaces like old handmade paper, fine silk and wall murals. He also restores the old miniature paintings. The distinct quality of Gitai is that he makes his own colours from precious, semi-precious stones, minerals and herbs. Real gold and silver colours are made from gold and silver leaf. He also makes his own brushes from squirrel’s hairs.
 
 
