PUNE: Just 11 minutes! Soon that could be the   time — almost one-fourth the time taken to fly between the two cities.

 Wondering what would be the mode of transport? Hyperloop technology would move people and cargo faster than flights between the two cities.
 
 The Pune Metropolitan Regional Development Authority (PMRDA) is seriously toying with the idea of moving people faster than flights for the price of a bus ticket using the Hyperloop technology on the Mumbai-Pune axis — one of the major urban agglomerations where huge population is slated to get congregated. The average flying time between Pune and Mumbai is 45 minutes.
 
 The Hyperloop is a passenger and freight transportation that would propel a pod-like vehicle through a reduced-pressure tube that would exceed jet speed.
 
 “We had three successful meetings with the team of Hyperloop as an exploratory exercise to understand if this nascent transportation system could be implemented in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) and between Pune and Mumbai. As you know, the project could become feasible and if implemented it would take about 11 minutes to travel between these two cities. You may continue with the dialogue with the Hyperloop One officials,” said PMRDA’s outgoing CEO Mahesh Zagade in a confidential letter to the  
 
 Hyperloop One is the global leader in developing the world’s first operational Hyperloop. Shervin Pishevar, the executive chairman of Hyperloop One, was recently in India.
 
 He said, “India is an extremely important geography for developing Hyperloop networks and reimagining how cities and regions work. The Prime Minister’s vision of connecting the country is directly aligned with the Hyperloop One’s objective of connecting the world. With initiatives such as ‘Make in India’ and ‘Digital India’, we do see ourselves working in this direction in India.”
 
 To facilitate speedy travel between Pune and Mumbai, the PMRDA is planning innovative traffic and transport modes. It has issued tenders for the execution of various schemes on the Pune-Mumbai corridor and the   (ELU) plan is almost ready. The authority has to publish the intention for preparation of the development plan according to the vision created in the past two years.
 
 “This topic (developing the corridor) is a humongous task and we have finalized all aspects of it to create future-ready cities. The execution must happen now,” said Zagade.
 
 Zagade in his letter (a copy of which is with TOI) pointed out that he had to face opposition from many corners for his “out-of-the-box” ideas for the PMRDA. He had joined the PMRDA in 2015. He has been transferred as   commissioner now.
 
 “It was a challenge to break away from the traditional overpowering views about governance from  , within and without. But together we could make a definite headway in a very subtle, yet in a robust manner,” said Zagade.
 
 He acknowledged out-of-the-box thinking was not always welcome in the government set-up, where traditional administration is considered to be the norm, but he got full support from the PMRDA officials.
 
