LUDHIANA: On Sunday, the view of   was amazing when some Punjabis joined the silent protest of   people living in city, with the demand of lifting ban on   festival permanently. Moreover, Punjabis also supported for bullockcart race of Kila Raipur, which were also banned with Jallikattu.

 Around 20 people belonging to Tamil Community, living in different areas of city, came out on road with posters demanding justice and the right of celebrating their festival Jallikattu, which was banned by   in May 2014. The Jallikattu is decades old festival of Tamil Nadu in which men fight with bulls.
 
 Although Center has given nod to Jallikattu on Saturday, however for six months and the community people are demanding the ban to be lifted permanently
 
 Vel Murugian, a businessman from   said, "Although government has given approval to organize Jallikattu however the ban is lifted for six months only. Since this festival is an inevitable part of our community and culture we want the ban to be lifted permanently. We do not want to come on road every year to get the ban lifted."
 
 During the peaceful protest many Punjabis were also seen supporting them.
 
 A school student, Manjot Singh (15), who was also carrying a poster with the demand of justice, said, "My friends are from Tamil and I have come here to support him. It is their significant festival and thus band should be lifted from it."
 
 Another businessman, Amit Gupta said, "I am supporting it because the famous bullock cart race of Kila Raipur games were also get banned with Jallikattu. When there are parameters to ensure that no cruelty is done to animal, then why to ban such festivals that are the part of our culture."
 
 Another protester from Tamil community, Satish Kumar from Chandigarh road said, "If a bull gets hurt during jallikattu we consider it ominous. No bull is hurt during the festival."
 
 He added, "Moreover, the fight also helps a bull to be healthy an health bull would produce health calf. This breed of female bull produces A2 milk which is scientifically proven very health."
 
 Besides, watching them conducting a peaceful protest, many commuters were coming and joining them.
 
