BENGALURU: With delay in   hampering key infrastructure projects, Karnataka government has taken steps to set up district-level authorities to facilitate speedy disposal of disputes relating to acquisition, compensation, rehabilitation and resettlement.

 The Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Authority will be constituted in line with the provisions under the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013.
 
 “Land holds the key for infrastructure development but legal disputes are coming in the way. We are hoping that the new authority will help resolve disputes at the earliest,’’ said revenue minister  .
 
 According to officials from PWD and water resources department, several ongoing infrastructural and development projects have come to a standstill due to decision paralysis and unwarranted disputes - be it the   (ITIR) near Devanahalli, or the   project or the Yettinahole project. “The setting up of an exclusive authority to decide issues within a prescribed time is a step in the right direction. Such disputes should be resolved within 30-45 days on a priority. These corrective measures will help speed up projects,’’ said a PWD department official.
 
 There had been a proposal from some quarters to set up a revenue fast-track court in each district to deal with all revenue land disputes. However, Thimmappa said they cannot take it up now because of monetary and logistic constraints.
 
 The setting up of the authority has been mandated under section 52 of the UPA’s Land Acquisition Act-2013. It mandates the authority shall consist of a presiding officer who should be of the rank of district judge or a person qualified as legal practitioner for not less than seven years.
 
 The government, in its January 10 notification, had designated first additional district and sessions judge of the district as presiding officer. If there’s no additional district judge, the principal judge would become the presiding officer of the authority.
 
 Recently, Karnataka High Court had disposed of a petition seeking directions to implement the 2013 Act after the government submitted a notification appointing the authorities to handle land acquisition disputes. The petitioner had contended that though the 2013 Act was imposed from January 1, 2014, it was not being implemented. He had sought directions to the state government to implement the amended Act.
 
