PUNE:   have slammed the state government’s move to   built before 2015 as an “unethical” and a “political move”, which will put a burden on the  .

 Corporations and PMRDA authorities had earlier drawn up a list of illegal structures. With the state assembly clearing an amendment to the Maharashtra Regional and Town Planning (MRTP) Act to regularise unauthorised structures built before 2015 for a charge, authorities believe that the list will have to be reviewed again as they do not have a break up of pre-2015 structures.
 
 It was only recently that the   (PMRDA) issued notices to 18,300 structures for which 21 First   were registered and 9 demolitions carried out. Officials told TOI that once the amendment takes place they would have to check all the parameters.
 
 The state assembly on Saturday cleared an amendment to the MRTP Act to allow the government to levy a premium or a compounding fee on residents and owners of unauthorized structures constructed before December 2015.
 
 On paying the premium, the building will be a tagged a “compounded structure’ and will be saved from further action, including demolition. The bill was cleared by the assembly and will now have to be passed by the legislative council to become a law.
 
 Once cleared, the amendment will bring relief to lakhs of residents and owners of such illegal structures in Mumbai, Thane, Navi Mumbai, Pune and PCMC areas. The state government will decide the compounding charges and the terms and conditions for regularisation on a case by case basis.
 
 Former town planner Ramchandra Gohad told TOI that the move was merely a political one and not in the interest of the people. “The government wants to increase revenue and regularising such structures will mean not only giving boost to such illegal buildings but also putting more load on the basic amenities,’’ said Gohad.
 
 Former additional chief secretary to the government TC Benjamin explained that such initiatives will not help the planning authorities but put an additional burden on the authorities. “Giving these illegal structures basic amenities will deprive those that fall under the legal purview,’’ pointed out the former bureaucrat who was at the helm of affairs at the Urban Development Department.
 
 Moreover, regularising such structures without actual checks and sanctions can be a threat to life and property as what happened at Ambegaon, where the entire structure collapsed, he added. Residents who have been issued notices recently stated that they are relieved but want the structural audit and checks of their buildings done. 
 
