KALYAN: Celebrations over a five-day-old boy’s naming ceremony cost a 13-year-old boy his life in Ulhasnagar. A reportedly drunk guest at the event fired in the air but the bullet hit a teen, Pratik Gaikwad, who succumbed to his injuries later during treatment. Incidents of such celebratory firing are rare in the state.

 After the incident, on the basis of information provided by eyewitnesses, the Shivaji Nagar police on Wednesday arrested three suspects including a former corporator   (30), Aadesh Gaikwad (25) and his brother   (21) while the hunt is on for Satyajeet Gaikwad (28), who organised the event. CCTV footage of the incident was found to be destroyed, which police said they believe may have been done by Satyajeet to shield his guests.
 
 Satyajeet and the other accused, who are his friends, are residents of Chinchpada area in Ambernath while Satyajeet’s in-laws live in Gaikwadpada village, in Ulhasnagar. Police said Satyajeet’s wife gave birth to a boy five days ago and on Tuesday night, he organised the naming ceremony at his in-laws’ place in Ulhasnagar.
 
 After the naming ceremony, guests at the party were having alcohol and dancing to the DJ’s tunes when Pratik, who lived nearby, was drawn to the event by the music. Police suspect around 12am, either Kabir, Ashok or his brother Ashish fired in the air but the bullet hit Pratik on the chest. Locals rushed Pratik to Central Hospital in Ulhasnagar, where during treatment he died at around 2am. His parents were not informed immediately and only told about the incident after he succumbed to his injuries.
 
 Pratik’s father Bhaskar is a daily wage labourer while his mother works as a maid. Pratik, who studied in Class VI, has two sisters. Talking to reporters, Bhaskar said, “I want those who killed my son to be punished.” 
 
 Sunil Bhardwaj, deputy commissioner of police (zone-III) of Thane police said, “Our team managed to nab three accused, one of whom is believed to have fired the weapon. There was CCTV footage of the event but the organiser deliberately destroyed it, so a hunt is on for him and we have also booked the four for conspiracy.” Police booked all four accused under IPC sections 302(murder), 201(conspiracy) and 34(common intention) and sections related to the Arms Act. 
 
 However, the arrested trio is yet to reveal anything on who fired the revolver. Police said they suspect the revolver belongs to the ex-corporator and a probe is on to ascertain the same. A few years back Kabir’s father Naresh, also a corporator, was killed over a political rivalry, which Kabir had cited to get a licence for the weapon. 
 
 The incident exposed the failure of the police to take pre-emptive action, as music at the event was on well beyond the court-stipulated deadline of 10pm. Moreover, the election code of conduct is in force in Ulhasnagar, due to the upcoming civic elections, which bars carrying any weapons within the city limits.
 
