
 
  
 
  Everything has a timeline. There are certain things that are beyond our control. The real estate market is not controlled by us. But in the last few months we have moved swiftly on it. We have got bids for Jammu and will soon be getting for Kozhikode station. We plan to redevelop almost 400 stations and it would entail an investment of Rs 1 lakh crore. We are undertaking station redevelopment under three different mechanisms. One is government-to-government, where we have got interest from Malaysia, Japan, Singapore, Belgium, Germany and the UK. The talks are still on and around 50 stations could be done on this model.
  
  The other is that our PSUs (public sector units) such as NBCC, Mumbai Rail Vikas Nigam Ltd and state government corporations take stations for development. We have already decided to give NBCC 10 stations for redevelopment. Several oil PSUs have approached us for real estate to set up offices and petrol pumps. The third is the public private partnership (PPP) model under which we have called bids for 23 stations. The project is integral for us…
  
  That will give our revenue (a) boost through commercial exploitation. Nowhere in the world is railway revenue only dependent on passenger and freight fares. Globally, 20% of non-fare revenue through commercial exploitation of rail real estate is the norm. We are trying to do the same here in India. You’ll see by the end of the term of this government almost 100 stations would be under different stages of redevelopment
  
  
 
  Railways is on the path of gradual recovery but it still has to be kept in the ICU as it needs to be strong enough. Passenger revenue, which was down in the last five years, has now shown an uptick. We have registered almost 9% growth in the first quarter of this fiscal. We have launched five different premium train products. Given that passenger numbers are now growing, we are in the process of adding six crore more berths.
  
  Freight growth has also come back. We are now focusing that our reliance on coal transportation, which is almost 50% of our freight basket, is reduced. Currently, we are dependent on 10 commodities. We have identified 30 more commodities such as agriculture, white goods and cars that will give us growth. We’ll need new policies for this along with a fresh strategy. We’re going to the customers. We have customer managers for our key clients now.
  
  We are signing long-term contracts and offering discounts to clients. We have signed long-term contracts with three major cement companies. You’ll see that our revenue would soon touch Rs 2 lakh crore. Once we have our dedicated freight corridors ready--that are being constructed at the cost of `1 lakh crore--we’ll have much more cargo carrying capacity. Also, our existing lines would be freed up and that would be used to increase passenger trains and also the train speed.
  
  
 
  The government along with several private stakeholders will invest at least Rs 8 lakh crore in expansion and modernisation in the next five years. We have identified several low-hanging fruits where results would be visible in a short span of time. One is passenger facilities such as elevators, food on demand, wifi and also significantly improving the facilities in trains. Then we are modernising our entire track network and upgrading the signalling network. Today, we are building 8 km of tracks every day, which is a huge jump from the time when I took over when we were doing only 3 km a day. We are focusing on infrastructure in a big way and that too meaningful infrastructure. In 70 years since independence, we had accomplished just about 16,000 km of doubling. In the last two years, we sanctioned almost 14,000 km of doubling on which work is underway. This would give a huge boost to infrastructure in the next two years when these projects would get commissioned.
  
  
 
  Operating ratio is a traditional way of calculating how much we are spending to earn Rs 100. We had a good operating ratio 20 years ago because then we didn’t have to pay such commissions. When I took over, the operating ratio was already 93%. Whenever there was a pay commission in the past, there was a huge jump in operating ratio.
  
  We had the seventh pay commission last year. Railways has had an additional burden of Rs 25,000 crore as seventh pay commission impact. Our social obligation itself is Rs 36,000 crore. Now, to give you a perspective, the operating ratio moves by 1% when the expenditure increases by Rs 1,725 crore. That would mean that operating ratio should have increased by almost 15% as compared to last year. If it was business as usual we would have ended up at 105% as operating ratio. But due to boost in passenger, non-fare earnings and various cost optimisation initiatives, we managed to pull back the operating ratio to only 96%. Today, our target is to focus on longterm growth. Today, we are spending so much on infrastructure. Our capex has
  
  Increased from Rs 35,000 crore some five years ago to Rs 1.31 lakh crore. The old operating ratio concept cannot be implied here. This is the time when we are focusing on overhauling railways. We have new revenue streams as well. We’ll have almost `15,000 crore as non-fare revenue. That will boost our internal generation and improve operating ratio.
  
  
 
  We have rolled out the enterprise resource planning (ERP) programme… aimed at efficient management of huge human resources and to integrate all of the railways’ entire freight, passenger and administrative operations across the country. ERP can give us a benefit of Rs 50,000 crore in the next few years. Through ERP you can watch your entire rail operations sitting in your room. It will help us use our routes efficiently and also the rolling stock. The productivity of employees will also increase. We’ll know where all our profit centres are
  
  
 
  We are trying three different mechanisms. One is long-term vision. We are trying to get technology where it’s possible to run trains at a speed of 500 km. We are already in talks with Hyperloop. We can have a pilot run of the train in India. The second is high speed, which is 350 km (per hour). Japan is helping us with that. In the short term, we are trying semi high speed where we are increasing the speed on corridors such as Delhi-Mumbai and Delhi-Kolkata to 160 km per hour on average. The plan to upgrade these routes at a cost of Rs 18,000 crore has been approved by Niti Aayog and will go to cabinet soon. If we don’t do this, people who have any paying capacity would prefer airways.
  
  
 
  It should be in 2022 between Mumbai and Ahmedabad. Japan is providing around Rs 80,000 crore for that. It’s a soft loan for a period of 50 years at interest of 0.1%. We’ve never had such a cheap loan and the tied component is as low as 15%. Since everything is in place, we should be able to meet the project deadline.
  
  
 
  It’s my responsibility to ensure passengers have a safe journey. I have already got a plan worth Rs 1 lakh crore in place to be spent over five years on upgradation of our safety parameters. The entire money would be spent on upgrading the network. Finance ministry is funding it partially.
  
  
 
  If anyone is targeted because of religion, it will not be tolerated. The Prime Minister has also recently tweeted about it. We have already directed railway police to be more active and improve safety. I have also requested the states to do that as well. It’s a telling message--whosoever is doing it should be given strictest punishment. We are putting in a centralised monitoring system. We are also spending Rs 500 crore to install CCTV on trains which will increase vigilance.
  
  
 
  I’m yet to see the report so cannot comment 
