VADODARA: When they shifted to the city from Surat 20 years ago, they lived in a   on   before shifting to a rented   that they eventually bought. Marred by financial crisis, their father Himanshu Pandya even suffered heart attack in 2011. 

 But cricketing brothers, Hardik and   will soon be moving to a plush house in Diwalipura area with their family.
 
 The Pandya brothers have bought a spacious 6,000-square feet penthouse in an apartment. “Work on interiors of our new house is on. It will be ready in about three months following which we will move in,” Krunal told TOI. “We are all excited about moving into our new house. It is much bigger than our current residence. It has been a dream journey for us,” he said. 
 
 “I will be in the city for a couple of months so I will be able to supervise work of the new house,” Krunal, who is expected to return to Vadodara in a couple of days, added. He was away from home with brother Hardik for two months as they were playing in the Indian Premier League (IPL). Krunal went on to win man of the match award in the finals as he played a winning 47-run knock for  . 
 
 When asked if they have made any special arrangements in the new house, Krunal revealed, “We will be fitting a home theatre system with a big screen as all of us are fond of movies.” 
 
 Their father, Himanshu, who was a loan consultant, too is ecstatic about the new house. “We bought all the four flats on the top floor to build the home of our dreams. The house will have about 2,500 square-feet of garden apart from spacious rooms,” he said. “I had shifted to Vadodara so that my sons could get better cricketing facilities and opportunity. And now they both have achieved success. Our sacrifices paid off and I am a proud father,” Himanshu, who is now retired, added. 
 
 The Pandya brothers used to travel in a second-hand car to the cricket grounds in the city but they were always conscious of the money they spent on fuel. “We are well off now but still we share the cars we own,” Himanshu said.
 
