PATNA: Indefinite strike by home guard jawans, who are mainly engaged in the city traffic management, has started showing its impact in the form of long jams on the Bypass, Patna-Gaya highway and roads leading to  . The home guard jawans are on strike demanding equal pay for same work as police constables. 

 On Saturday, there was a massive jam on Patna-Gaya road and Zero Mile on the Bypass. Thousands of vehicles, including some school buses, got stuck in the jam which was around 8 to 10km long. 
 
 Jyoti Sinha, a schoolteacher, who has to travel to her school situated near the Bypass everyday, said the traffic snarls on the Zero Mile has always become a routine affair. 
 
 “Even though the traffic police took measures to ensure smooth traffic within the city, the roads on the city outskirts still experience major traffic problems. We encounter half an hour jam almost every day near the Zero Mile. At times, we are stuck in traffic jam on this route for almost a two hours. My students travelling along with me in the school bus are mostly five to six years old,” said Sinha.
 
 According to traffic SP Prantosh Kumar Das, the traffic police are facing a major manpower problem leading to traffic slowdown. Das said he has requested his seniors to help tackle the situation. 
 
 Traffic DSP   said, “Traffic personnel around the city are working up to 14 hours a day to manage the crisis. Previously, we had the support of 400 home guards, but we are short of them now due to the strike which is going on for the last 15 days. Jams occur mostly during office hours when the vehicle pressure increases.” He said the vehicles move slowly but never stop as there are policemen to check. “We are working very hard to ensure smooth flow of traffic,” he said. 
 
 The   even blamed public for the jam. “Around 50% traffic problems occur due to rule violators who overtake other vehicles to move forward even in jams,” he added. 
 
 Director General of   and Home Guard P N Rai said the home guard strike is indefinite. “The traffic police can take help from the NCC cadets and scouts to manage the situation if they are having manpower issues.”
 
 In answer to Rai’s comment, Ahmed said the NCC cadets are still children and cannot be posted on heavy traffic routes such as Gandhi Setu or highways to man traffic. “Only trained personnel can be posted at these places. We cannot use NCC cadets as they have not undergone the extensive training required for this kind of job,” he added.
 
