PUNE: Winds of change may blow into at least 12 colleges affiliated to  . They are likely to go   over the next year following the announcement on Wednesday in the   to revise the framework to grant such a status.

 Vice-chancellor of Savitribai Phule Pune University W N Gade said, “There are many proposals with the university from colleges and institutions across Pune, Solapur and Nashik which have proposed autonomy for themselves. With the government revising the fram ework, at least 12-13 colleges and institutions affiliated to SPPU from all three districts will get autonomy status in one year.“
 
 Once they have academic autonomy in hand, colleges can design their own courses, frame syllabi and conduct evaluation for their students.Autonomy helps educational institutions upgrade the quality of education and attract competent faculty too.
 
 Other autonomous colleges across the country stick to the fees' structure of the universities that govern them. They devise their credit, semester and continuous internal evaluation systems that can match international standards. The Union government will undertake reforms in the University Grants Commission. Good quality institutions would be enabled to have greater administrative and academic autonomy.
 
 Colleges will be identified based on accreditation and ranking, before they get autonomy. A revised framework will be in place for the outcome-based accreditation and credit-based programmes.
 
 Gade said of all the proposals received by SPPU, at least three to four were from Pune.On the revised framework, he said, “The government is trying to eliminate unnecessary procedures in granting autonomy to institutes that deserve it. Those that have been accredited 'A' grade for three or more years would receive autonomy without any unnecessary formalities which will speed up the process.“
 
 Kiran Shaligram, mem ber of the governing body of  , said, “While   has received academic autonomy for all its courses, we have proposed autonomy for Brihan Maharashtra College of Commerce. The university has moved this proposal after scrutiny to UGC and it is a matter of time. However, it remains to be seen whether the government is talking about academic autonomy only or financial autonomy as well. Once the revised reforms from UGC are out, most of these questions will be answered.“
 
 College of Engineering Pune (CoEP) has been trying to get a `Deemed University' status for years.
 
 The status will enable CoEP to become a degree-awarding institution and bring flexibility in introducing academic programmes of its own without being at the mercy of professional regulatory bodies like the All-India Council for Technical Education.
 
