KOLKATA:   on Monday indicated it will not deviate from its   and thus boycott the first two days of   The party, under instructions of chief minister  , while protesting against the “illegal” arrest of its two Lok Sabha MPs by CBI, including its Lok Sabha leader Sudip Bandyopadhyay, will also strive to build up a larger consensus among other parties, including Congress, to sting the  .

 In a statement issued after a meeting of all senior MPs at the CM’s Kalighat residence, the party argued, “The demonetisation was implemented without taking Parliament into confidence, and restrictions on withdrawal limits from bank accounts are still in force.” The party’s national spokesperson Derek O’ Brien claimed, “The entire budgetary exercise,   believes, will be an attempt to whitewash the damage done by demonetisation and pretend the economy is not sinking.” But Derek also went a step ahead when he said, “The opposition will not allow this to happen.” Asked specifically whether Trinamool will also reach out to Congress, a non-committal Derek said, “We will reach out to all parties who share our views.”
 
 To the same query, Trinamool’s chief whip in the Lok Sabha, Kalyan Banerjee, said, “We have one point agenda of removing  . We will be with those who will also work in that direction.” Newly appointed party deputy leader in Lok Sabha, Saugata Roy, said, “We are working together. Our party supremo has given us the direction and we will work accordingly”. To a question, Banerjee said Sudip Bandyopadhyay will continue to be their leader in the Lok Sabha. 
 
 The party statement added, “In the ensuing session, Trinamool will, among other issues, raise the issue of the illegal arrest of its Lok Sabha leader and another MP which is a clear case of political vendetta by the ruling party at the Centre by misusing CBI and abusing its power.” According to party sources, the February 1 budget which has been brought forward from end-February, will be tailor-made to “influence” voters in Punjab, Uttarakhand, Goa, Manipur and Uttar Pradesh. Neither was the party’s urge to be culturally sensitive on the occasion of Saraswati Puja, which also falls on February 1 and is a state holiday, considered.
 
 Trinamool alleged the BJP is giving itself an unfair advantage in state elections by misusing its privileges in government. 
 
 
