Patna: The chorus to project Bihar CM   as opposition’s prime ministerial candidate for the 2019 general election has begun afresh following the massive win of the BJP in the just-concluded assembly polls in four states.

 While functionaries of Nitish’s JD (U) have repeatedly said Nitish is PM material, former PM H D Devegowda and NCP stalwart Sharad Pawar have also gone on the record in the past to opine that ‘Nitish is the best PM candidate for the 2019 election’.
 
 The JD(U) wants Nitish, who is the party’s national president, to lead the efforts for formation of a Bihar-like grand alliance at the national level before the 2019 polls. The party has also urged him to lead the opposition camp against PM Narendra Modi.
 
 The chorus this time seems to be louder apparently because the Congress-Samajwadi Party alliance tasted a humiliating defeat in UP while the AAP of Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal, another contender for the PM post, failed to score an impressive win in Punjab.
 
 “These results betray that neither Congress vice- president Rahul Gandhi nor Kejriwal can give a fight to Modi. While former UP CM Akhilesh Yadav does not have a strong mass base, his father Mulalyam Singh Yadav has already been thrown out of the ring. RJD chief Lalu Prasad cannot contest elections due to his conviction in a fodder scam case,” argued a senior RJD functionary.
 
 Lalu had also once said he would be happy if Nitish became the PM. “Nitish has never said he wants to become PM. He is like my younger brother and I will be happy if he becomes PM,” Lalu had told reporters in Delhi on April 20 last year.
 
 JD(U) national secretary general   told TOI on Friday a Bihar-like alliance was the need of the hour. “All secular and democratic forces should come together. Had Mayawati been part of the Cong-SP alliance in UP, the Cong-SP-BSP alliance would have won 301 of the 403 seats in UP,” he said.
 
 Tyagi said it would be difficult to defeat Modi in 2019 unless a Bihar-like alliance was formed at the national level. 
 
 On the candidature of Nitish for the PM’s post, Tyagi said the Bihar CM never projected himself as the PM probable, but the JD(U) was proud to have such a towering leader with the competence and capability to lead the country. “Of course, Nitish is a PM material. He has the experience of working with a PM like Atal Bihari Vajpayee and the experience of leading a coalition government with both the BJP and the Congress-RJD,” Tyagi said.
 
 
