NAGPUR:   striking work has increased recently. Have the assault on   increased in recent past?

 Residents have gone on strike in the past too. In 1978, I remember being a part of an agitation. But the agitation was not for security. It was for the hostel conditions, working conditions, food etc. It’s sad that such conditions still continue. They continue to live and work in pitiable conditions. The environment and ambience where residents work is not conducive for providing the desired care.
 
 Then why do   and relatives attack the doctors so often?
 
 There are a number of factors responsible for it. But mainly I see lack of training in the behavioural and attitudinal aspect of residents. Security and safety are paramount for good behavioural response from the doctors. They can’t work in hostile atmosphere.
 
 What can be done to improve their attitudes and behaviour?
 
 A lot. The curriculum itself should be include communicative skills. The curriculum can be divided into three groups, cognitive (covers the knowledge aspect), psycho-motors (skills) and the conative (behavioural). But unfortunately the conative area is completely missing in medical curriculum. The residents should know how to share seriousness of the disease, how to break the bad news. They need to be very professional.
 
 Has the Medical Council of India made any efforts towards this direction?
 
 Yes. I was a part of the committee which worked on ‘Integrated competency based curriculum’. 20% weight is given to this part. We have prepared an attitude and communication based manual. In the first phase, we are training 60,000 teachers as a national faculty development programme which will help teachers train the residents further. Behavioural competencies form the basis of any profession and it applies to medicine too. 
 
 Has this become a part of the syllabus now?
 
 Sadly not. The subject was cleared by the MCI executive council in 2014. But it has not been notified yet. Truly speaking such amendments don’t warrant a notification or intervention by the government. We asked for a modification in sec 33 in this regard in 2016. But the gestation period for bringing any such change is not less than 4-5 years.
 
 At a local level, what role can be played by the administration in creating more harmonious situation?
 
 The authorities in medical colleges should have continuing medical education (CME) programmes where at least 30 credit points should be given to these CMEs on behavioural and attitudinal aspects of service to the patient.
 
 Patient is already being termed as client. Isn’t medicine also becoming a commercial profession?
 
 Client may be used as a word but definitely in circumstances the doctor-patient relationship can be equated with any other professional relationship. The relationship is always based on faith and understanding. It has to be a mature and meaningful relationship for a healthy conversation. Patients require to be as much aware as the doctors about it. Both sections of society, doctors and patients need to be empowered and enlightened about the pros and cons of  . A ‘reactional’ behaviour always is unacceptable. We are not living in a brutal and barbaric society so why should relatives always be brutal?
 
 There are laws for protection of doctors. But rarely are they implemented. What needs to be done?
 
 It is sad that the Maharashtra Medical Council (MMC), especially Dr Kishor Taori, took a lead in the framing of such a law. All others states should follow it. But, surprisingly, despite assault of doctors being a cognisable and non bailable offence there have not been many trials or any convictions so far.
 
 So what is the solution to this problem?
 
 The MCI has been always suggesting fixing of working hours for resident doctors. The residents needs to deal with the patients with empathy and not sympathy. They should continuously update the relatives on the progress of the patients — whether he is improving or deteriorating from time to time. This includes the mandatory disclosures on the part of the hospital and doctors but definitely it should uphold the confidentiality of the patients where needed.
 
 
 
