A brand new high performance recovery centre has opened doors in Delhi, helping hardcore   buffs “cut back” a little. They have ordered swanky new gym equipment… all geared to relax the body, not push it. Well, with the frenzy of marathon training lessons, barre, spin and HIIT classes, one needs to make room for recovery... for the body to go on. The West is lapping up extensive recovery classes and workshops, a far cry from the 5 min stretching at the end of a workout. In fact, recovery is becoming a   all of its own. 

 
 
 Recovery in wellness can be defined as one’s ability to recover from physical and mental stress from workouts and, in general, from life. “Recovery in the fitness industry is often a forgotten variable as clients and trainers are focused more on improvements and accomplishments,” says Gagan Arora, fitness trainer who spends a lot of time in testing and teaching his clients efficient breathing which is crucial for recovery. “It is directly related to fat metabolism and even for strength and endurance gains,” he says, adding, “Only doing stressful workouts will limit your achievements and you could get stuck to a specific plateau, become ill or even injured.” 
 
 
 
 Anybody and everybody. Sitting all day behind a desk also wreaks havoc on your muscles, increasing your risk of muscle pain and injury. “Ordinary people carry mental, physical and job stress! If they are not properly recovered, it could affect their cognitive and job performance,” says Raoul Hirani, strength and conditioning coach, who decides a person’s recovery level by checking the morning resting heart rate. “Nowadays people have a stressful life and the lack of time makes their workout routine even harder. Either they do a short intense cardio, a High Intensity Interval Training or a Circuit Training type of workout. They are trying to pack in too much in too little time,” adds Arora. This doesn’t apply to gym sessions alone, one should start easy and give enough recovery in between sessions even in running, cycling, weight training or group classes. 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 Though high-tech gyms are roping in foam rollers and specialised stretching classes, the road to recovery is made of some basic things – hydration, nutrition, ice baths, meditation and massage. “We have a nap time room and stretching zone at our centre. It is very important to sleep well, flex your muscles, and eat right and cool down every day after exercising. This is the basic premise of recovery fitness. Throw in a little meditation to bring your heart rate back to normal,” adds Hirani. Recovery classes are just as much mental as physical. They refresh your breath mechanics, balance your nervous system, mood and mind. And fix your breathset and mindset!
 
 
 
 
 Diaphragmatic breathing 24x7
 
  Foam rolling on daily basis
 
  Mobility, flexibility and 
 pranayama 
 
 Any form of meditation 
 once a day 
 
 Keep a check on caffeine and 
 alcohol intake 
 
 Get more sleep. A power nap of 25 minutes has a strong positive impact on stress levels
 
 Daily stretching can strengthen muscles, release your spine, improve alignment and deepen your breathing.
 
 
