Theatre connoisseurs might have had a field (World Theatre) day with the repertoire of plays that were staged in various parts of the city on Monday, but those who attended the staging of The Balancing Act at Kala Chhaya Kendra, were in for another surprise. It was officially announced there that the Indian centre of   (ITI) has opened in the city. But will the move be local theatre groups’ ticket to more international collaborations, visits to festivals, competitions, and cultural exchanges? Theatre practitioners discuss...

    (NSD) alumus   of PINK fame, feels that platforms like these are essential, not just for people to create work but also to come together and share ideas. “Since I’m also involved in a lot of teaching, it’s important to highlight what training can do in shaping the way theatre-makers work, which such institutions can provide. Such platforms must, however, stress on the need for theatre practitioners to be up-to-date with what’s happening across the world, but also not forget traditional theatre that continues to form the foundation for experimentation,” he says.
 
 
 
 
  
  
  City-based playwright, actor and director   hopes regional theatre will benefit from the platform. “This can be helpful for the new generation of playwrights and directors experimenting with Marathi theatre. There’s still scope to work on how plays should be presented,” says Virajas, adding that Marathi theatre’s strongest pillar is its content. “However, when you perform your work in the local language, it remains in the community. It’s only when we start interacting with people from different languages, cultures, styles of writing, acting and direction, and even nationalities, we will be able to gain more perspective, while also giving our work larger exposure,” he adds.
 
  Meanwhile, actor-director   believes that the move means, more and more international theatre artistes will get a chance to come to India. He says, “Many times, here in India, we are doing some good work, but we have no idea where we stand on the global theatre scene. If international artistes get to see what we are doing, we too will be encouraged to explore beyond what we do. There’ll be a cultural and form exchanges that will help everyone grow.”
 
  
  
 
 
  The centre will be a forum for theatre artistes across the country to access information about festivals, residencies, and collaborative opportunities, as well as help, explore possibilities of global recognition. So many artistes do not know that they can apply for festivals and that funding is not always a problem. The centre’s website says: ‘ITI centres shall promote the performing arts in their respective countries through research, distributing information, conferences, festival, competitions, showcases, best performances of the country, workshops, publications and other means as well as facilitate international cultural exchange.’ 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  Four years after it was closed down in Delhi by the ITI officials, for lack of any initiatives from its end, the Indian centre has been reopened, in Pune this time. The official announcement was made by  , founder-director of city-based International Association for Performing Arts and Research (IAPAR), who, along with his team, has been instrumental in bringing the centre back to life. The new centre will be headed by veteran theatre personality  , while well-known names like   and   will also be associated with it.
 
  “Some really big names were associated with ITI, but information that came to the centre was rarely shared with the national theatre community. I spoke to several artistes in India and the ITI community abroad to restart the centre. They finally said, ‘If you feel so strongly about it, why don’t you take initiative to restart the centre in India?” says Prasad Vanarase, Secretary General, ITI India
 
  
 
  
 
 
  Talks about the opening of the Mumbai branch of National School of 
 
  Drama have been on for years. Recently these talks grew, but there has been no official announcement from NSD regarding this. It will be a welcome change, feel theatre artistes.
 
 
