From Arab horses to South American, African and European fruits and Chinese pottery, ripples of cultural influences have passed through Goa during and much before the Portuguese era, via a prosperous port operating from this speck on the   of the Indian subcontinent. This flourishing trade left its mark on the local population and their language.
 
  And while 450 years of Portuguese colonial rule saw many words from the rulers’ language being absorbed into the local tongue of Konkani, many other cultures have contributed to the language’s rich vocabulary.
  
  The source of one such major influence on Konkani, which its speakers are little conscious of today, has been Persian or/and Arabic. Long before the Portuguese could reach Goa, the Kadamba kings filled their coffers by importing horses from the Arabs and selling them to the neigbhouring kingdoms. Naturally, Konkani did not remain unaffected from this exchange.
  
  In ‘A History of Konkani Literature’ by Manoharrai Sardessai, he records words gifted to Konkani by Persian or Arabic, including abru to mean honour, noxib for fate, iad for remembrance, farik to repay, maja for joy and garib for poor.
  
  So essential have some of the words become to modern-day Konkani that it is difficult to imagine the language without them. Khobor (news), tarikh (date), badal (change), chabuk (whip), dhang (engrossed), fakt (only) are only some examples.
  
  Dr  , in his book ‘Old Konkani Language and Literature’, writes that the language began its separate and independent journey as a language from the 10th century onwards. According to linguists, Konkani has been derived from the blend of Sauraseni and Maharashtri Prakrit. It is later believed to have received influences from the Magadhi Prakrit, during the reign of Mauryas in Konkan. And so it developed from a different branch of Prakrit from Marathi, which came from the Mishra or mixed Prakrit.
  
  Between the 10th and 13th centuries, when the Kadambas ruled over this Konkani-speaking belt, one obvious influence was that of Kannada. Duddu (money), bhangar ( ), hallsande (kind of beans), tai (sister), boraup (to write), tantim (egg), hau (something to be dreaded), modd (storm), mama (maternal uncle) and manv (father-in-law) are some words assimilated from Kannada, as recorded by Sardessai.
  
  Possibly it was the trade links with other Indian regions that also saw Konkani borrowing words from other South Indian languages like   and Telugu. Chakho, a preparation from jackfruit, is believed to have come from Malayalam chake for jackfruit. Similarly, tuvare is said to have given the Konkani word for raw mango.
  
  The Telugu sambaru, Sardessai writes, has given to Konkani sambarem, which is a container of spices, leading to samarem as a word for a particular blend of spices specific to Goa. This very trade exchange, which further prospered under the Portuguese rule, also saw other languages drawing from Portuguese. The English and Hindi word ayah has its etymological roots in the Portuguese term for nanny.
  
  On the other hand, Konkani could not remain untouched by the growing use of English across the subcontinent in the 19th and 20th centuries. Origins of some of the Konkani words like bottler (butler), avtto (out or out of senses), pikas (pick axe), pano (spanner), tanki (tank) are said to be in English.
  
  French too has made its contribution with tamret for a wooden stool and volter for a reclining chair (supposedly derived from the French writer  ).
  
  As for Persian/Arabic, it continues to enrich Konkani like few other languages have, if we go by what the linguists have to tell us, so far. Akal (intelligence), bhogos (pardon), barik (thin), nazuk (delicate), ajap (wonder), xar (city), nodor (glance), saib (master), forok (difference), zap (answer), vogot (time), buniad (foundation), goroz (necessity) are some other such examples.
