MUMBAI: Lucky, a pet dog, was stabbed to death by a man as it tried to come between him and its owner when he was threatening her in Sion Koliwada. The man was arrested after a police complaint and is now out on bail.

 Vyanketesh Devendra, 23, was having a heated argument with his girlfriend around 11.30pm on Sunday, when she ran into a nearby house to escape him. Infuriated, Devendra pulled out a knife and followed her.
 
 Sumathi Devendra, who lived there with her brother, said she tried to push the man away to protect the woman, but he started waving the knife.
 
 “Devendra got furious as I asked him to go away and began threatening me. Since he was brandishing a knife, my young pet dog Lucky tried to protect me by coming between us. That is when he fatally stabbed Lucky in the abdomen,” said Sumathi in between sobs.
 
 Sumathi filed a police complaint under section 429 (mischief by killing or maiming cattle, etc) of the Indian Penal Code. If the charges against Devendra are proved, he could be imprisoned for a term which may extend to five years and/or fined.
 
 Devendra, after being arrested by the Antop Hill police, said he was having an argument with Sumathi when the dog came in between. He alleged that the dog was barking at him and tore his dress. He was later released on a surety of Rs 5,000. The police have recovered the knife Devendra used to kill Lucky.
 
 Lucky’s body was sent to an animal hospital in Parel for post-mortem. Sumathi said she feels sad and disheartened to see the dog-killer roaming freely as if nothing has happened. “Some stronger IPC section should have been applied against the youth since he was armed with a knife and was also aggressive towards me. My pet was only trying to safeguard me. He has killed our dear pet dog, I will never be able to get over it,” she said. 
 
 The stabbing of the dog rekindled demands from animal rights activists for stronger animal protection laws. “The accused youth could easily get bail as our animal protection laws are rather weak. While efforts are on to bring in amendments in the existing Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960, the government must do it sooner to stop such cruel offenders,” said Ganesh Nayak of the NGO Animals Matter To Me.
 
 Lt Colonel J C Khanna, secretary of the Bombay Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (BSPCA), recalled that a few years ago, there was a terrible case of animal cruelty when a rash motorist had killed a heavily pregnant stray dog. “The man was bailed out by paying pittance. Only if the offenders have to pay heavily and even serve time in jail, will they learn not to harm animals.”
 
 
