LUCKNOW: Panic gripped   once again on Sunday night when unidentified bike-borne men stopped outside the house of trader Vijay   at 8pm on Sunday and enquired about him. Resident of Matadin road in Saadatganj, Gupta has been most vocal for justice in the   murder case and at the forefront of protests against  .

 The unknown visitors were roaming around the streets in the area since 7.30pm, holding copy of a Hindi newspaper that carried exhaustive reports and pictures related to the case and after taking directions from residents stopped right outside Gupta’s house. On coming to know Gupta was at his shop, the men showed his wife his photograph in the newspaper and confirmed if it was his home.
 
 “What time does he return home,” they asked the housewife before she desperately called out for help. Before escaping hurriedly, the men gave a stern look to the woman. Gupta rushed to his house and informed fellow  . President of Saadatganj vyapal mandal Pramil Kumar Gupta said police were informed immediately and some constables visited the house.
 
 “The newspaper carried photograph of Gupta while he was protesting against Shravan Sahu’s killing and he appeared standing next to a senior police officer,” said   Gupta, who visited Saadatganj police station along with other office-bearers of the local vyapar mandal on Monday noon. The group felt suspected goons of Aqeel were behind the act. 
 
 From the time Shravan was murdered on February 1, residents, traders and businessmen residing in Saadatganj have been living in fear. “And another incident to threat Shravan’s sympathiser show miscreants have no fear of being caught by police,” said Lalu Khatri, another trader.
 
 Officer-in-charge of Saadatganj police station Samar Bahadur Yadav said police received the complaint and were trying to find out who the bike-borne men were. “Vijay’s wife could not note down the registration number of the motorcycle. She was also not sure about the make or the model of the vehicle,” said Yadav. As not many households and shops have installed CCTV cameras, police were struggling to get clues on the suspects.
 
 
