Nagpur: Bhupesh Mor (28), a probationer divisional accountant at AG office, was found dead under questionable circumstances in front of Manas Bungalow on Walker’s Street, Civil Lines, on Saturday early morning. The deceased, son of a police personnel from Haryana, had a deep injury on his forehead. 

 The bike on which Mor had left his residential quarters at CPWD at Civil Lines, was found lying in shrubs around 200 metres from his body. 
 
 Mor also had a blunt injury on the left side of the upper lips, chest and also on the back which seemed to have got grazed against rough surface. Sources in   police, which have registered accidental death, said Mor was alive when he was spotted lying on the road by morning walkers. There was no damage to the bike like accident cases. Only the indicator on one side was broken with no other scratch on the bike. 
 
 Mor partied with his friends and colleagues on Friday evening at their quarters. After partying, Mor borrowed a bike from a friend, identified as  , as he wanted to go out for purchasing cigarettes and had also taken Rs100 from a friend. 
 
 Cops have learnt that Mor and others would often visit   near   station to purchase cigarettes. In the morning, police found Rs70 and a few cigarettes in his pocket.
 
 Police said Mor had left his mobile phone at the quarters. The cops also said that his friends did not contact police or search for him as they were tired after a prolonged party. They learnt about Mor’s death from cops who found the body just a few metres away from the CPWD quarters. 
 
 Cops initially tried to arrange for an ambulance through their control room but failed to get one. Later, he was shifted to Mayo hospital in police van. A senior officer said that Mor was declared dead at Mayo hospital but was showing signs of life when constables reached the place. 
 
 As per their preliminary findings, forensic experts at Mayo have indicated that the death could have taken place due to an accident. 
 
 Senior PI Manoj Sidam of Sadar police station said that a concrete chunk has been collected from the place where the body was found. “Though Mor’s injury appears to have been caused due to a sharp object, it might have also caused after a crash on the concrete chunk with face banging against it,” he said. 
 
 Police are now trying to quiz residents from local slums behind the locality where the body was found. “The body was not there when the police van was patrolling the locality at 2.30am,” said Sidam. “Also, there were no valuables on Mor’s body. Though it seems to be an accident or a case of hit-and-run, we are probing it from murder angle too,” he said.
 
 
