KOCHI: India will emerge as a country with the largest young workforce in the world. The quality of labour (workforce) will improve in coming years, said Dr Ila  , former principal economic advisor to government of India.

 Speaking on `Economic Growth in India: Trends and Cycle' at the 14th quarterly lecture organized by the Kochi Think Tank Centre for   (CPPR) in Kochi on Thursday, she stressed on the need for a healthy workforce. There had been a rapid improvement in the literacy rate and nowadays around 70% of workforce is literate.
 
 “We hear how India is only second to China in  . We also hear that there is a slump in job creation, investments and bank credits.How both the stories coex ist is a puzzle. While one is about India's potential long-term growth, the other is about the growth that we are experiencing at present,“ she said.
 
 The country has in its favour three major economic advantages ­ a growing human capital, rising capital stock and numerous micro-economic drivers of productivity. India's literacy rate has increased from 41% in 1980 to 72.1% in 2014.
 
 The rapid improvement in literacy will lead to increased supply and quality of labour. In the next decade, everyone entering the labour force will be literate and 20% of entrants to the workforce will be graduates. India is also slated to achieve 100% female literacy rate. In the global space, India has an advantage of high-end scientific and technical labour force.
 
 Slowdown in industrial production does not go with the healthy growth rate that is predicted for India. The net sales of firms are subdued. There is also a slide in bank credit to the commercial sector and under-implementation projects. This proves the dearth of major investments in the country.
 
 Data on business cycles present a problematic picture. They indicate that India is still at the bottom in terms of net sales, investments, production and bank credits.
 
 “Though we are not at zero growth rate, India is much lower than the potential growth rate. The downturn in investment cycle will affect trend growth. If investment does not pick up, capital stock will not pick up. There is a downward trend in the projects announced by the private sector,“ Dr Patnaik said.
 
