HYDERABAD: "I would just sell out completely, give this whole establishment up and live on the income from my investments,"   told the   when its correspondent Joseph Lelyveld asked him what he would do if the Indian government went through with the proposal to abolish the Privy Purses of the former rulers. It was a few months after Prince Mukarram Jah was coronated as the titular   VIII of Hyderabad on April 6, 1967. The   published the report on August 17 that year. 

 Fifty years after his coronation Prince Mukarram Jah continues to live outside Hyderabad. Heritage activists and admirers of the Nizam VIII will celebrate the golden jubilee of his coronation recalling the grand event that held Hyderabad in awe. Film recordings of the coronation event will be screened and special prayers for the good health and longevity of the Nizam will be offered. April 6 also happens to be the birthday of Prince Mukarram Jah's grandfather,  . The Nizam VII had bypassed his eldest son Prince Azam Jah and made Prince Mukarram Jah his successor. Prince Mukarram Jah was reportedly fascinated by automobiles. News archives reveal that he had proposed to set up an automobile manufacturing unit in Hyderabad, long before the indigenous car   rolled onto the roads. 
 
 The proposal did not get through but the new Nizam had "inherited a scrapyard". The NYT had quoted Prince Mukarram Jah as saying "I inherited a scrapyard. I have a lifetime's work before me".
 
 News archives reveal that the Nizam VIII in his younger days in fact had a large collection of cars. He used to repair his cars, old timers recall. He reportedly did enough groundwork to launch a car-manufacturing unit in Hyderabad. Mukarram Jah reportedly approached his grandfather with the proposal of establishing a car plant. City historians reveal that in a few years Mukarram Jah was able to mobilise sufficient funds for the project. Australian journalist John Zubrzycki, who wrote a book on Mukarram Jah, said he had heard about the car factory plan but did not gather enough recorded evidence. 
 
