BENGALURU: Srishti Institute of Art,   is turning 21 this year. The   are known for their multi-disciplinary hues, including technology, law, environment, new humanities and many more combinations.

 
 
 
 
 It's not been easy. When we started, there was   (NID) and National Institute of Fashion Technology (NIFT), but there was nothing for design in south India. While we have grown over the last 21 years, we aren't one dimensional. We did start with basic art forms, but now they have been clustered with other techniques and have been modernized with time and technology. For in stance, furniture designing has become public space designing. What makes us different are four things: credibility over the years, believable, marketable and uniqueness.
 
 
 
 
 A series of accidents (she laughs). But I will keep it simple. Between 1971 and 1996, I was a maths teacher and had been part of several prominent schools in Bengaluru, Madurai and other places. So, within our group of friends evolved the idea of `home school', where our children could go and study together. That's how Mallya Aditi International School evolved. After it was set up, I still wanted to do something more in the field of education and everyone suggested we do something more than a school. That's when the idea of a design school came up and Srishti happened.
 
 
 I find inspiration from every small thing in daily life -during conversations with friends, family or students. For instance, we have a course in information design. Here we have clustered information with art, designs, images, etc., so that it's visualized in a way that is communicative to the common man, such as an informative Metro rail map.Simply put, it's a creative cluster of disciplines which creates multi-dimensional view of any practice. A few other courses are correlated with environment, law and design.Srishti's mission is facilitated by its organizational structure of 'community of learners', comprising industry-experienced faculty and energetic students. Since its inception, students and teachers have been con tinually exploring and experimenting with art and design pedagogies, aesthetics, values and innovative practices in assorted spheres.
 
 
 
 
 There is a 360-degree change to this thought.Today, students as well as parents understand that art and design have moved ahead with time and we need to look beyond the artefacts. Design is required everywhere and by everyone, thus we need to change it for the comfort of people who need it. There is a need of art and design in activism, in IT sector, NGOs, education, business, etc. And if one does that, there are endless opportunities to earn and that's what our focus is with each cluster of subjects.
 
 
 
 
 Srishti Collective is a mega event held annually and puts forth the innovative approach of students of Srishti Institute of Art, Design and Technology. Students from undergraduate and postgraduate courses exhibit their works on this platform. There'll be 240 students putting up an exhibition on varied issues and topics at the kings court, Bangalore Palace, from July 17.
 
 
 
 
 Art for me is a catalyst for building a better tomorrow. It changes with technology, expression of ideas through multiple mediums and representations. If we see around, people are using several artworks to express themselves, to raise their voice against things going wrong in society or for prevention, protection, expression and invention.
 
