TRICHY: If not for the   available at the  , S Adaikalamary, a   from the city, would have found it to difficult to prepare for  . The 28-year-old recently cleared a bank exam in her first go. 

 The audio and   section of the library has helped many such aspirants like Adaikalamary to realise their dreams. Apart from braille books, the section has a wide range of talking books, including study material for competitive examination created by student volunteers from colleges in the city, especially those from the National Institute of Technology (NIT-T). 
 
 “There are over 1,000 talking books available in the section and the numbers are only increasing,” says coordinator of audio and braille books section J Abdul Jaffer. 
 
 There are over 100 registered volunteers in the Jegajothi voluntary readers circle for the visually-impaired. Mostly students, they visit the library during weekends and record audio books.
 
 M Kathiresan, 32, a visually-challenged postgraduate teacher at Syed Murtaza Higher Secondary School, says that earlier they had to visit Chennai for the study material, but often found that the braille books failed to meet their needs. “Braille books for the autonomous colleges and Bharathidasan University are hardly available in Chennai. But now many of the books are available here as talking books,” says Kathiresan, who has cleared Group-4 exam, TET and a few other competitive exams with the help of talking books. 
 
 Over 50 visually-challenged candidates have secured government jobs in the past three years with the help of material available at the audio and braille section, says Abdul Jaffer, who is also a Tamil teacher at a government school in Trichy. 
 
 There are five computers in the section on which the talking books can be accessed. “The interesting part about talking books is that they can be copied on mobile phones and other electronic devices. Candidates can access them whenever they want. They don’t even have to visit the library,” says volunteer S Gokul who is currently converting a 4,000-page book for competitive exams.
 
