The   in the wake of `Make in India' and `Skill India' as well as taxation reforms such as   (GST) offers a huge business opportunity for Japanese companies in India. Japan, on the other hand, wants to help India in skill and human resource development.

 “India is on the path of a radical change at many levels. Whether it is ease of doing business or  , taxation reforms or  , India is transforming completely. This is a huge opportunity for Japanese businesses,“ said Prime Minister Narendra Modi while addressing a business event organized as part of   on Thursday.
 
 Inviting more Japanese companies to India, Modi added that the growing convergence between Japan and India on strategic and economic issues has capacity to stimulate the global economy. “Japan can benefit tremendously with the size and scale of our potential and skilled hands that India offers,“ he said.
 
 Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani stated that the contribution of Japanese companies is growing in Gujarat. “Japanese investment in Gujarat is expected to increase to $3 billion in years to come,“ he said. At present Japanese investment in the state is over $1 billion.
 
 Japan is the third largest investor in India and our country received Japanese investment worth $4.7 billion in 2016-17, which is 80% higher than that in the preceding year. “It clearly shows how much confidence and optimism is prevalent in Japan towards India's economic development and a golden tomorrow. And by looking at this investment, it can be assumed that in the coming days people-to-people ties between India and Japan will grow further along with growing business,“Modi added.
 
 Stating that skill and human resource development is an area where Japan can help India, Japan's prime minister, Shinzo Abe, said, “The investment environment will further improve. Under India-Japan roadmap for investment promotion, a business support centre will be set up in Ahmedabad.We will support advancement of Japanese companies and SMEs in Gujarat.“
 
 However, industry players demanded that Indian companies should be given greater access to Japanese market. “There is a need for more partnerships with Japanese companies, including small and medium enterprises,“ said  .
 
