KOLHAPUR: Activists and members of progressive organisations in the state have welcomed the government decision to ban religious worship, display of photos of gods or religious slogans as a “step towards achieving values inscribed in the Constitution”.

 Recently, the state government directed the civic bodies to remove photos of gods or religious figures from the offices and state-run schools with immediate effect. The offices also have been reminded that solicitation of any religion by displaying slogans and performing puja was against the provisions of the Constitution of India. 
 
 The offices have been directed that performing religious rituals, celebrating festivals and putting up posters and slogans on the walls was against the constitutional provisions and hence should not be practised.
 
 Krishant Kore, a young executive of   (MANS), said the decision was one step in the direction of strengthening the constitutional values. “We will meet the district administration and request officials to remove religious frames and slogans in offices,” he said. 
 
 Several activists and members of organisations felt that the multilingual and multicultural framework of the country calls for differentiation between religion and governance. 
 
 Social activist and professor   said that in a multicultural country like ours, religion and government institutions should be separated. “Religion is a private affair. We have adopted secularism in the Constitution. The decision should be implemented in a serious manner and the constitutional values should be preserved,” she said. 
 
 Shamshuddin Tamboli, president of  , said that different citizens of the country and state practice different religions. “Public offices where people from all religions visit should remain secular. One particular religion should not be highlighted. Secularism should also be followed in minority schools, where the day starts with prayers. It should not happen. Religion should be a private affair,” he said. 
 
 Legal expert Asim Sarode told TOI that it might take time to implement the decision in an effective manner, but it is a step towards maintaining secularism and bringing the constitutional values into action. 
 
 “We cannot bring religion into the public domain. We have demanded that the practice of performing puja and displaying portraits of idols inside court premises should be stopped,” he said.
 
 
