NEW DELHI: The drama behind closed doors has been prolonged and threatens to continue, but now that the Supreme Court-appointed Committee of Administrators has urged the BCCI to announce the Indian team for next month's   Champions Trophy, it is time to look beyond the politicking to what the make-up of the squad could be. 

 India's pool of players for their defense of the  , scheduled across England from June 1 to 18, is expected to be announced following the BCCI's SCG on Sunday (May 7). Ahead of the much-awaited announcement, here are five pertinent questions: 
 
 
 
 
 With KL Rahul ruled out, the selectors need to pick three openers for England. Rohit has not played for India since October, when he sustained a thigh injury during the ODI series against New Zealand, but is slated to return after scoring 173 runs in nine innings for Mumbai Indians, the first team to qualify for the play-offs. 
 
 The strongest candidate to join Rohit looks to be his long-time opening partner Shikhar Dhawan, after a strong run of form for defending   champions Sunrisers Hyderabad: 369 runs at a strike-rate of 125.51 with two fifties. Dhawan made 1 and 11 against England in January, but his IPL form should be good enough for the selectors. 
 
 The other option from within the expected squad is  , who in the last 12 months has opened the innings six times each with returns 144 runs. He has not had a good IPL, scoring 226 runs in 11 innings with a solitary half-century, but could be used up the order in England given his experience of opening there (309 runs in eight ODIs). 
 
 
 
 
 The 19-year-old wicketkeeper-batsman could not have timed his spike in form any better. On Thursday evening at the Feroz Shah Kotla, Pant slammed 97 off 43 balls for Delhi Daredevils to power a stunning chase of 209 inside 18 overs. When he was out, having slammed nine sixes and six fours, Daredevils had a run rate of 12 and the target was 30 from 33 balls. Pant has had pundits talking of his India potential for a while now, and following a successful Under-19 World Cup and Ranji Trophy season for Delhi, he was ushered into India's T20I squad in January. He offers India not just an explosive batting option, but also serves as reserve wicketkeeper to Dhoni. Will the selectors punt on Pant?
 
 
 
 
 India's previous ODI squad contained four pace-bowling options in Jasprit Bumrah,  ,   and Hardik Pandya. Each of these bowlers should go to England, but considering the nature of surfaces there it is expected that one more quick will be picked. 
 
  has not played an ODI since the 2015 World Cup semi-final, but could be line to travel to England. After two wicketless matches for Daredevils, the 27-year-old was Man of the Match in the win over Sunrisers Hyderabad on Tuesday, taking the wickets of Warner and Kane Williamson while conceding 36 runs in four overs. It can be argued that two wickets in four IPL games is no great shakes, but Shami has had the selectors' faith ever since he returned to international cricket after a long gap. 
 
 
 
 
 There is merit in employing legspin in England. In the last five years, in ODI played in England, the second most successful spinner after James Tredwell is the legspinner Adil Rashid, with 29 wickets in 19 matches at a superb economy of 5.70. India did not pick   or Yuzvendra Chahal in their last ODI series, at home against England in January, but one of the two may be in the reckoning. 
 
 Mishra took five wickets in his last ODI, in a resounding victory over New Zealand that gave India the series 3-2, and in two T20Is against England this year took two wickets at an economy rate of just six. In that same series, Chahal was the top wicket-taker with eight and claimed the best figures for India in the format, a remarkable 6/25. In three ODIs, Chahal has taken six wickets. R Ashwin and Jadeja are the frontline spinners, with Kedar Jadhav's part-time offbreaks a good backup option. But going for a third spin option in one of Mishra, Chahal or Kuldeep is not a bad idea, especially for variety.
 
 The bowler who could prove a wildcard pick is Kuldeep Yadav, the 22-year-old left-arm wrist spinner. He has yet to play an ODI, but enjoyed a successful domestic season for Uttar Pradesh, proved an inspired pick for the deciding Test match against Australia in Dharamsala where he stunned the visitors with a game-shifting four wickets on day one, and so far in the IPL has nine wickets for KKR. 
 
 
 
 
 Going back to the question of openers, there are a few batsmen in the IPL proving difficult to ignore. The gulf is wide between the IPL and international cricket, but there's no denying the correlation between success in the league and international call-ups. 
 
  is in the middle of a fine run of form at No 3 for Kolkata Knight Riders, striking at 170.66 and with a crispness not seen over the past two seasons. His 384 runs from nine innings include five fifties - the most by any batsman - and 21 sixes, second only to David Warner by two hits. Or could the selectors perhaps consider Uthappa's KKR captain, Gautam Gambhir, who so far has 411 runs at 51.37, with four fifties? 
 
 Maharashtra batsman Rahul Tripathi is on course to be named Emerging Player of the IPL for scoring 352 runs in nine innings at a strike-rate of 155.06, his most recent outing being a stunning 93 off 52 balls to complete a hat-trick of wins for Rising Pune Supergiant. His would be a totally out-of-the-box selection, however. 
 
 And should the selectors look beyond Mohammed Shami, could there be a recall for Jaydev Unadkat, the left-arm seamer with 12 wickets for RPS, the highlights of which have been some very good death-overs bowling? 
 
