HYDERABAD:  , the wife of slain Indian engineer   in Kansas has demanded answers from the US government for the killing of her husband.

 “I need an answer. I need an answer from the government. I need an answer from everyone out there. That what is that there are gonna to do stop this hate crime,” she said speaking to the media in Kansas. Meanwhile in Hyderabad, IT & NRI affairs minister K T Rama Rao of Telangana state said the government would work with the Ministry of External Affairs to offer support to the distress. “Shocked and anguished at the spate of attacks in US. Vamsi last month, Srinivas and Alok now,” the minister tweeted.
 
 It may be mentioned here that a student   who belonged to Telangana had been gunned down in Milpitas, US a couple of weeks ago. In the incident that took a few days ago in Olathe, Kansas, US, Srinivas Kuchibhotla was shot dead and his friend Alok Madasani was injured when a gunman opened fire in what is being described as a hate crime.
 
 Sunayana Dumala was met by officials of CGI Houston after the shoot out and assured all help to transport the body of Srinivas back home to India.
 Regaining her composure Sunayana who spoke to the media in Olathe said her husband would have celebrated his 33rd birthday on March 9. “He did not deserve a death like this. In two weeks he would have celebrated his 33rd birthday. March 9 in his birthday. I don’t know what to say. We prayed many times,” she said adding that in they had been following newspaper reports about ‘some kind of shooting happening everywhere’.
 
 She said they had always wondered how safe they were. "And I especially, I was always concerned. Are we doing the right thing in staying in the US?" she asked.
 
 Srinivas assured her that ‘only good things happen to good people’. “That guy came back and he did what he hade to do. He has taken a life,” she said about the gunman who opened fire at Austin’s Bar and Grille in Olathe, Kansas.
 
 Sunayana described her husband Srinivas as a ‘very lovabe soul’.
 
