LUCKNOW/BASTI: Hitting back at CM   over his donkey jibe, PM   said on Thursday that he took inspiration from the animal to work tirelessly for the people even under adverse conditions.

 “Some people don’t like the donkey. But we take care of donkeys in Gujarat in the manner we take care of lions,” the PM said addressing an election rally in Bahraich, north-central UP.
 
 “We could learn from the donkey as it obeys its master and complete its task even when tired, hungry or ill, and irrespective of heat, cold or rain. It doesn’t matter how heavy the load is. I’ve taken inspiration from the donkey. My master are the 1.25 crore countrymen and I will work tirelessly 24 hours without taking a holiday for my master,” Modi said.
 
 The PM repeated the remarks at another rally in Basti town near Gorakhpur.
 
 Building on the theme, Modi said the situation was very different in UP, where the entire government machinery was set in motion to catch the thieves involved in lifting a buffalo.
 
 His reference was to SP minister Azam Khan’s buffaloes which had gone missing in Rampur, and police had tracked them down.
 
 At Basti, PM Modi also recited a poem on the donkey by Sarveshwar Dayal Saxena, a well-known poet from the town. “Neta ke do topi gadhe ke do kaan; topi adal badal kar pehne gadha tha hairan; ek roz unko gadhe ne tang gali mein ghera; kayi dulatti jhaar un par aur jor se renka; neta ur gaye topi ur gayi ur gaye unke kaan; beech sabha mein khada ho gaya gadha seena tan.”
 
 Roughly translated, the poem means: A leader had two caps, a donkey had two ears; donkey was upset to see leader changing his cap, one day the donkey cornered him at an alley and kicked him hard; the neta flew, so did his cap and his ears; the donkey stood with pride before the people.
 
 After reciting the verse, Modi said Saxena’s poem was an apt reply to the donkey jibe.
 
 At a rally in Raebareli, Akhilesh had taken a dig at Modi by referring to a Gujarat tourism promotion campaign featuring actor Amitabh Bachchan. “There’s an ad on TV which feature donkeys. I appeal to this century’s biggest movie star, please stop endorsing the donkeys of Gujarat),” Akhilesh had said.
 
 “Akhilesh ji has not even spared donkeys,” Modi said, amid cheers from the crowd at the Bahraich rally. “You are even afraid of donkeys,” he added.
 
 "Donkeys don't differentiate whether it is carrying ‘chini’ (sugar) or ‘chuna’ (lime)", the PM said.
 
 Modi said people who were unaccountable had no right to ask for votes. “Votes are pious. Five years ago you voted for SP but they turned UP into a state of misery where law and order is entirely missing. They are doing everywhere but not answering what they did in these five years. If one is not accountable, one has no right to ask votes,” he said.
 
 Alleging that lawlessness ruled the state, Modi said, “The complaint of the poor is not registered in police stations unless police get approval from musclemen… Crime and mining has become the leading trade of the state.”
 
 A major part of Modi’s speech focussed on sugarcane farmers in this cane belt. “Mulayam Singh promised you five years back that the Munderwa sugarcane mill will be restarted. I want to ask you that whether he fulfilled his promise? Sugar mills are closed and sugarcane farmer is in bad state.”
 
 “I’ll tell you how work is done. As we came in power, we waived loans of Rs 22,000 crore of cane farmers and the money directly reached 32 lakh farmers without a mediator,” he said.
 
 Training his guns on the Congress, Modi said, “In 2012, Congress had no agenda and it was contesting the state election on the promise that it would raise the limit of LPG cylinders from nine to 12. But it is we who have given LPG connections to poor households.”
 
 With a touch of sarcasm, he said, “People are unhappy with me as medicines which were selling for Rs 30,000 now cost just Rs 3000 and the price of stents used in heart disease has come down from Rs 1.25 lakh to Rs 25,000. All the people who were making huge profits are angry with me.”
 
 Those with black money too were angry, Modi said touching on demonetisation. “Those who were hoarding money in Rs 1000 and Rs 500 notes have also become angry with me,” he said.
 
