BHUBANESWAR: The BJD on Friday accused the BJP of politicising the   a day after the Centre constituted a   to resolve the river water dispute between Odisha and Chhattisgarh. 

 The party said it is also apprehensive about the outcome of the committee since two previous meetings mediated by the Centre had failed to resolve the Mahanadi deadlock. 
 
 "First, the BJP announced Chhattisgarh chief minister   as its star campaigner for the rural polls. Now, when panchayat elections are round the corner, the Centre announced the committee.This clearly indicates that the BJP is trying to gain political mileage," said BJD spokesperson Pratap Deb while addressing the media.
 
 He expressed doubt about outcome of the panel since the two meetings - one attended by chief ministers of both the states led by Union water resources minister Uma Bharti and another between chief secretaries of both the states - failed to resolve the issue. 
 
 Accusing the Centre of failing to stop constructions by Chhattisgarh over Mahanadi until a mutual decision is arrived at, Deb said by forming such a panel, the Centre is only delaying the process thereby allowing the Chhattisgarh government to go ahead with the constructions.
 
 The BJD leader also raised objection over inclusion of representatives from states like Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Jharkhand in the committee. "The Mahanadi issue is between Odisha and Chhattisgarh, so it could not be understood, why the Centre has included these three states which may not have any catchment area," he said.
 
 Asked whether the ruling party rejects the panel, Deb said they are apprehensive about its result. "We are firm on our demand regarding a tribunal which can only put an end to the dispute," he added.
 
 To a query if Odisha would have any representation in the committee, he said the state government would take a call on that after receiving the terms of reference of the committee. 
 
 Sources in the chief minister's office said the state government is yet to receive any formal communication from the Centre regarding formation of any such committee. "Once we receive the communication, the chief minister would react," said an officer.
 
 "The Congress also accused Centre of trying to gain political mileage on the Mahanadi issue. The Centre announced the committee to gain in rural polls. I urge the state government to reject it and to go for a tribunal end the deadlock," said Congress leader Taraprasad Bahinipati.
 
 "The allegations are baseless. The negotiation committee formed would largely help Odisha to protect its interests over Mahanadi," said BJP spokesperson Sajjan Sharma.
 
 The Samajwadi Party's Odisha unit on Friday moved the State Election Commission accusing the Centre of violating poll code by announcing the negotiation committee.
 
