KOLKATA: In a shocking case of  , a   held a man by his throat, dragged him for around 100 feet before finally   against an   and speeding away. The 31-year-old is on ventilator support and battling for life with a skull fracture and multiple critical injuries. A fare dispute triggered the attack, a witness said.

 The incident was reported on Thursday morning from the Doighat area under Watgunge police station, less than 25 metres from the Vidyasagar traffic guard. Almost 12 hours after the attack — and despite it tak-ing place in front of several witnesses — the yellow cab driver is absconding. Locals alleged that when they chased the cab on their bikes, at least two traffic sergeants posted near Prinsep Ghat and Babughat refused help, saying “the area does not fall under our jurisdiction”.
 
 Cops have identified the victim as Rajesh Shaw, a res-ident of Doighat. “It was around 9.30am when Rajesh came out of his residence on Garden Reach Road to hail a taxi to SSKM, where he wanted both his parents to undergo a check-up. The car’s registration number is WB04C8946,” said Sourav Singh, one of the witnesses.
 
 “We saw the driver haggling for some extra money and both were arguing. Rajesh had pushed his head inside the cab through the driver’s window when he was arguing. The next thing we saw was the driver holding Rajesh by the throat and accelerating the car. For about 100 feet, the taxi kept swerving with Rajesh hanging in the air. Even as the vehicle crossed the traffic guard, no one stepped forward to help. The taxi finally took right on to the Adi Ganga bridge and smashed his head on the iron structure. As Rajesh collapsed, the driver sped away,” said Pratik Pandey, another witness.
 
 Locals were the first to react. “Some of us hailed an app cab and rushed Rajesh to CMRI Hospital. His head looked smashed. At CMRI, he was put on ventilator,” said Gopal Das, another resident.
 
 CMRI authorities said the “patient was extremely critical”. “He has multiple injuries. Whether it is by dragging or deliberately beating him up, he has injuries all over his body. We are monitoring his situation,” a hospital spokesperson said.
 
 Another set of locals who chased the driver towards Babughat said they even clicked a photo of the cab involved in the crime, a photo that is now with TOI. “However, none of the sergeants came forward to help. We lost sight of the cab near Eden Gardens,” said Singh.
 
 Police said they have collected CCTV footages from nearby residences that will help in the probe. An investigation by TOI revealed that the taxi is registered in the name of one Ram Kishor Rai and was registered on November 10, 2006. At present, there are 138 cases pending against the vehicle. We are expecting to arrest the driver soon. We have registered a case under IPC 307 (attempt to murder) at Watgunge police station,” said an officer.
 
 Locals later put up a roadblock at the spot, demanding immediate arrest of the accused.
 
 
