PUDUCHERRY: The tussle between   lieutenant governor   and chief minister   grew bitter on Thursday with Bedi cancelling a circular issued under the instructions of the CM directing government staff to desist from using social media for official work.

 The “circular dated January 2 of the department of personnel and administrative reforms (personnel wing) has been issued in contravention of guidelines, rules and policies in force and is hereby declared null and void with immediate effect”, Bedi said in an order. 
 
 She also posted a copy of the order on her official Twitter account, saying, “If Puducherry has to be a progressive UT, it cannot be retrograde in communications. Hence @CM_Puducherry’s order stands cancelled:@ PMOIndia.” 
 
 
 
 In a video on Twitter, Bedi said the circular went against the Centre’s policy of using social media for government work.
 
 
 
 
 It is the policy of the Union government to use social media for government official purposes. He (CM) disbanded it (WhatsApp groups) and everyone left. He issued a written circular banning use of social media. He does not know that he does not have the powers to do so,” Bedi said in a video posted on Twitter.
 
 “How can a Union Territory administered and supported by the Union government, and I as an administrator, issue such as an order? It is contrary to the Union government’s policies. Our PM says communicate, collaborate, coordinate, share, implement and redress grievances,” she said.
 
 In a circular on January 2, undersecretary (personnel and administrative reforms) M Kannan said the CM had directed all government officers to avoid using social media for official work. “No group shall be formed for official communication and they should not be members of any official group run in such social media nor interact with seniors, bypassing the administrative hierarchy and routine official channel,” the circular said.
 
 The circular came immediately after Bedi suspended a PCS officer A S Sivakumar for posting an obscene video in an official WhatsApp group.
 
