MUMBAI: Around 1 pm, when he walked in to bat,   must have felt the world's weight on his rather frail shoulders.

 Having lost their top order, barring skipper  ,   had slipped to 63 for four while in pursuit of 379, and seemed to be hurtling towards defeat against   on Day Four of their   clash at the Brabourne Stadium here.
 
 Under pressure to retain his place in the Indian Test squad, the wicketkeeper then produced the most defining knock of his first-class career -a brilliant, unbeaten 123 (214b, 16x4, 3x6) to take ROI within 113 runs of victory with a day remaining.
 
 The 32-year-old has added 203 runs so far for the fifth wicket with Pujara, who looked his usual rock-solid self at the other end, following up on his 86 in the first innings with an unfinished 83 (181b, 10x4) in the second. Together, the duo have ensured that ROI, who finished at 266 for four, are now within sniffing distance of snatching victory from the jaws of defeat, barring a collapse on the final day.
 
 Since the time a thigh injury ruled him out from taking further part in last November in the India-England Test series, Saha's replacement Parthiv Patel has been in the limelight, first for making a successful return to international cricket after eight years, and then leading Gujarat to their maiden Ranji Trophy title with two superb knocks in the final.
 
 The courageous hundred, which came in a crisis situation, will do a world of good to inspire the selectors' confidence in Saha again.
 
 Till he produced this memorable knock, a game which was billed as a `Saha-vs-Parthiv' clash, it seemed to turning to be a nightmare for the Bengal cricketer. After being out for a duck in the first innings, Saha made things worse for himself when he grassed a regulation chance which Chirag Gandhi offered at 56 off Siddharth Kaul on Monday morning.
 
 Though he enjoys a healthy first-class record (5054 runs @42.11), Saha his endured an ordinary record in the Irani Cup, where his highest score previously was merely 29 not out. This time, though, Saha seemed determined to leave his stamp.
 
 Standing at least a foot outside the crease, even to the medium pacers, to prevent a repeat of his LBW dismissal in the first innings, the Bengal gloveman showed guts of steel. He started his innings with a couple of mistimed lofted boundaries to midwicket off Gujarat seamer Mohit Thadani. If he had lost his wicket in that fashion, Saha would've been hauled over the coals, but the man was ready to take the bull by the horns.
 
 Continuing the counter-attack and trusting his ability to clear the field against both pace and spin, he later perfected the lofted shot, smashing Patel for two more sixes over long off, apart from crashing the medium-pacers through the cover region. Fittingly, it was an aerial drive to long off over four, off Chintan Gaja, which saw him get to his century.
 
 During his what should be a match-winning knock, Saha suffered cramps on his elbow too, but nothing could stop him from playing an innings he, and those who saw it, will cherish for a long time.
 
 
