A lot has changed since members of the veteran Hindrock ensemble   shot into limelight sailing across the ghats of Varanasi on a boat crooning Dhoom pichuk dhoom... Notably, Indi-pop is dead and buried, the Internet has become the biggest record label, numbers of TV channels promoting home-grown independent artistes have shrunk and if that’s not enough,  ,   and  , who starred in the band’s earlier videos, have become established Bollywood hit makers. 
But one thing hasn’t changed — the zeal and passion of Dr   and his band mates to keep on making non-filmi music. Talking to us over the phone from a recording studio in Delhi on Thursday, two days before Euphoria’s first public concert in Hyderabad in the last 3 years, the “Rock Doc” sounded as upbeat as he was 25 years ago before the release of the band’s chartbuster album Dhoom. “We are recording Kabootar from our 2011 album item and would soon shoot a video for the song,” says the 51-year-old vocalist.
 
 
 
 It’s been five years since Euphoria released a new album. Sen says though he has been feeling the anticipation brewing among the fans but couldn’t do much following the changing trends in the music business. “The trend of cutting albums is passé. Now it is about releasing singles on the Internet and online music start-ups. Moreover, for a band that has seven albums to its credit, it becomes difficult to be on the same page with that of the newbies and follow the trends,” he explains.
 “But it won’t take any longer than August,” says Sen adding that recording of a new album is nearing completion and if everything goes according to plan, fans will get to hear the Sha Na Na Na hit makers yet again. “The new album will focus on different shades of love; the different emotions that love emanates — be it crush, infatuation, passion, envy and so on. And the best part is, this time around we will try to reach out to all our fans directly by making the album available on their doorstep,” he says. Sounds enthusiastic, but how does he plan to do that, we asked. “Through the Internet of course,” he avers.
 
 
 
 Recently, Sen shared controversial rapper Raftaar’s new single Baby Marwake Choregi on his microblog. When asked if that’s what he has been listening to these days, the singer quickly apologised saying he made a mistake by posting the song without giving it a good listen. “It’s very embarrassing now when I think of it. I should have listened to the song properly before posting it. I realised the song’s pun-intended lyrics later. Actually, I appreciate the talent of new-age rappers such as   and Divine. But didn’t know this song would turn up to be such a shame,” he says apologising to fans adding that it was completely unlike him. 
 
 
 
 This is no secret that Sen has had his share of Internet trolling when one of his remarks during a show in IIT Bombay’s Mood Indigo 2013 didn’t go well with the girl students of the institute and they “misinterpreted” it to be sexist. Sen was vehemently trolled by many on the web and the result was Halla Bol in 2016, a satirical single addressed at everything that Euphoria thought was plaguing the fabric of the nation. “When I was getting trolled I realised two things —– the power of social media and that opinions have no individuality in the web. I wrote Halla Bol to address everything that’s happening in the country that I wasn’t happy about. It was like my answer to those who trolled me and misinterpreted my words,” he informs. 
 
 
 
 Recently, when Sen released another single titled Jesus: Lord Has Risen on the auspicious occasion of Easter, he found himself yet again in the centre of a controversy. This time, a few netizens weren’t happy with the vocalist-cum-composer for adopting a religious approach to the song. “This is a strange time to live in India. There was a time when the 
 different princely states in the country were united by a few able men to form India and now in 2017 it’s disintegrating again. Religion is a tool for a certain 
 section of the society to use it for their advantage. If everybody can cut a Sufi album or a bhajan, why can’t I release a song on Jesus? Only because this 2 to 3 per cent of Christians in our country are nobody’s vote bank, that’s why? In fact, I still don’t have a censor clearance for the song,” he laments.
 
 
 
 The frontman of Euphoria feels non-filmi music has been annihilated by Bollywood. “The Hindi film industry killed non-filmi music very systematically. It lured the good musicians with money and forced them to think everything in the terms of commerce. As record labels were not putting in any money on their albums and film producers on the other hand are splurging for the sake of their movies, musicians had little choice but to join the bandwagon,” Sen rues adding that if all creative people go on selling their souls, everything will become just marketing. “And that’s exactly what’s happening today,” he concludes.
 
