AURANGABAD: Even as the state government in July last year had given administrative approval for renovation of hostel facility at the state-run Industrial Training Institute ( ) here, the desired work has not yet started causing inconvenience to the students.

 The state government had given administrative approval for necessary renovation at the financial outlay of Rs 95.77 lakh.
 
 Student activists have flayed the government especially skill development minister  , who hails from Marathwada, for ignoring the state-run institution. The youth wing of the Nationalist   (NCP) went a step ahead by staging Bheek Mango agitation for raising funds.
 
 Rahul Tayde, city president of youth wing of NCP, blamed the government for making tall claims about skill development.
 
 “The hostel facility at government-run ITI has been locked up as the repair work has not been undertaken. The accommodation facility meant for 300 students is gathering dust and the government makes tall claims for boosting skill development,” he said.
 
 Tayde alleged that the skill development department of Maharashtra exists only on paper.
 
 “While granting administrative approval of Rs 95.77 lakh, the skill development minister had committed necessary release of funds. It has not released a single penny over a period of last nine months, implying that the department has meaningless existence,” he said.
 
 The hostel facility in question was handed over by   to the ITI authorities in 2004. As several parts of the structure developed maintenance issues, renovation was proposed.
 
 Works related to renovation of rooms, toilets, repair of doors and windows are expected to be carried out. Repair of drainage line, compound wall and furniture are among major things that need to be taken care of besides construction of cement roads. 
 
 Student activists also feared that the cost of overall works could go up considerably if repair and renovation work lingers further. 
 
 When contacted, ITI authorities refused to comment on the issue. “All these are policy matters to be decided at the level of the government and therefore it would be inappropriate to comment,” authorities concerned said admitting that the students were facing problems as they were being deprived of the hostel facility.
 
 Senior officials from skill development department were not available for comment. The skill development minister was also not reachable.
 
 The youth wing of the NCP, meanwhile, has threatened that it would intensify the agitation if the renovation work of ITI hostel does not begin soon. “We will wait till the upcoming budget session of the State Legislature, following which severe agitation targeting the minister would be launched,” leaders said. 
 
 
