MUMBAI: Almost five months after a serious knee injury during a practice game for the   ruled him out of IPL-10 and forced him to undergo surgery, talented youngster   is clawing his way back into action. In a 'C' Division   game on Sunday, Sarfaraz, batting for Young Mohammedan against Dadar Parsee Zoroastrian at Matunga, slammed 65 (55b, 3x4, 6x6) to help his team record a win on the first innings. DPZ CC were skittled out for merely 55, after which Mohammedan made 154. The 19-year-year-old added 90 for the opening wicket with his younger brother Mushir, who took seven wickets (including five for eight in the first innings) to star in the win as well. 

 Also playing for Young Mohammedan were Sarfaraz's father-cum-coach Naushad, and his other younger brother, Moeen. Sarfaraz had played a game almost a month back since returning from inju ry, but at that time, he batted in the dying stages of the game only. Despite his quick-fire knock, Sarfaraz, who's likely to miss the initial rounds of the Ranji Trophy for Uttar Pradesh, admitted that he wasn't fully fit. "In 'C' Division games, he can afford to stand in the slips, and bat, which is important, because I want him to gain match fitness, which is as important as physical fitness," said Naushad. Giving his knee as much rest as possible, the youngster ran just nine singles and three twos, as he dealt mostly in boundaries.
 
 "I'm much fitter than before. I'm feeling good. I should be fit in around 20-25 days. Then I'll go as per the doctor's advice," Sarfaraz told TOI.
 
 The young gun had broken his anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) just before the   in April, and underwent surgery on April 13. He was operated upon by Dr Dinshaw Padiwala, who had operated on India seamer  's ACL too. The UP batsman is currently undergoing rehab at   under physio Ashish Kaushik.
 
 
 
 Parkophene CC lifted the Kanga League ' A ' Division title after drawing their last league match against Fort Vijay CC. Parkophene were led by former India left-arm spinner and current Mumbai Under-19 chief selector  . The star player for the champs was Sufiyan Rehmani, who took 12 wickets for them in the tournament.
 
 
