Indore: A team of the Atomic Energy Regulatory Board (AERB) on Thursday found MY Hospital violating norms set to operate various kinds of X-ray equipment, thereby exposing patients and staffers to radiation hazard. In a surprise drive, the team from Mumbai sealed one X-ray unit in the facility and issued notices stating that seven other units would be shut down if the hospital management fails to secure an AERB license within the next 30 days.

 “Apart from the license, the team checked availability of trained operators, room space, thermoluminescent dosimeter (TLD) badges, lead apron, lead lined door and width of X-ray unit’s wall -- which should be at least nine inches,” AERB scientific officer BK Singh told TOI.
 
 The team took an undertaking from MYH authorities that all windows of the X-ray units which were found open during the inspection will be closed down permanently to stop spread of radiation in the surroundings.
 
 “We have certificates for most of the radiation machines, and for the rest, we have applied. A quality assurance team authorised by AERB, which inspects and gives clearance for obtaining the license, is expected to visit the hospital in a couple of days,” said MYH superintendent VS Paal.
 
 “Non-compliance of the X-ray units, that include X-ray, CT-scan and Cath lab machine, with regulatory and radiation safety measurements can be hazardous for patients as well as the operators and other staffers members. It increases the possibility of cancer, cataract and hair-fall. Besides, X-ray unit staff and those residing in the vicinity are exposed to serious health-related issues depending on the amount of radiation emanating,” said AERB team member Arti Kulkarni.
 
 Apart from sealing an X-ray unit in Chacha Nehru Children's Hospital, the team initiated action against four private facilities in Indore and two in Ujjain for not complying with the specified regulatory and radiation safety requirements.
 
 “During the surprise raid, the AERB team issued two notices to shut X-ray units at Mayank Hospital, served three notices to Suyash Hospital, two to Geeta Bhawan Hospital and three to Lifeline Hospital," AERB team member Pramod Dixit told TOI.
 
 In Ujjain, the team issued three notices to shut down X-ray units being operated at Deshmukh Hospital and two to JK Hospital, Dixit added.
 
 Another team member, Neeraj Dixit explained: “On failing to show license or finding non-compliance of the regulatory and radiation safety requirements, action is taken as per the provisions of the Atomic Energy (Radiation Protection) Rules, 2004.”
 
 
