MUMBAI: Maharashtra has recorded 722 farmer suicides in the three-month span since the loan waiver was announced in June,   figures show. In the month of August alone, the state saw 260 farmer suicides.

 The farm loan waiver was announced on June 2, but the benefits are expected to roll out only by late October. The government has extended the last date of   for the waiver by a week to September 22.
 
 Overall, Maharashtra has seen 1,881 farmer suicides in the eight months between January and August. This is a slight decline from the 2,062 cases recorded in the same period last year.
 
 In two crucial regions however, farmer suicide figures are higher than last year. The sugar belt of Western Maharashtra has recorded 70 farmer suicides till the end of August. The figure stood at 54 during the same period last year. The vulnerable districts of Amravati in the cotton-growing belt of Vidarbha have recorded 691 cases till the end of August compared to 688 cases in the same period in 2016.
 
 The   is once again experiencing distress on account of the long dry spell in the region. In Nagpur division’s major dams, the water level is 35% compared to 58% last year. In Amravati division, it is 26% compared to 65.8% last year.
 
 Overall, farmer suicides continue to be highest in Vidarbha region, home to chief minister Devendra Fadnavis. The region reported 854 farmer suicides till August-end compared to 931 during the same period last year.
 
 “The long dry spell has hit Vidarbha the worst. Entire fields of soya bean are drying up. This may wipe out the benefit of the loan waivers,” said farmer activist Vijay Jawandhia. The preliminary assessment of farm output by the agriculture department last week shows a dip in the production mainly of cereals and pulses and sugarcane in the state’s kharif crop. The area under cultivation has dipped by 1 lakh hectares.
 
 ‘Even small nullahs in Vid-arbha are drying up. At this rate, even the rabi crop could be hit,” said Kishore Tiwari, chairman of Vasantrao Naik She-tkari Swavalamban Mission, the state task force on agriculture. Marathwada has reported 628 farmer suicides compared to 745 till the end of August 2016. North Maharashtra, the epicentre of the farmer agitation which led to the announcement of the waiver, reported 325 farmer suicides compared to 332 cases last year. The Konkan region has reported only four farmer suicides this year.
 
