GHAZIABAD: A day after the body of a five-year-old-girl - who was allegedly raped and murdered - was found in Indirapuram,  , the newly elected MLA from Noida constituency, met the aggrieved family members of the girl on Sunday morning in Kanawani village and promised an expedited probe into the matter. 

 Singh also committed to the speedy arrest of the absconding accused 'Afroz' and instructed the police officials to do whatever it takes to arrest him as soon as possible. Pankaj Singh also instructed district magistrate Nidhi Kesarwani to meet the family members and extend every help that is possible. 
 
 The family members of the girl, along with over 200 more villagers, demand the arrest of the accused and raised accusations against Ghaziabad police of concealing the girl's body after its recovery and not handing it over to the family members for its last rites, rather performing them in anonymity. Speaking to TOI, the girl's father said, " They did not let us bring the body home and the SP tried hiding the matter from the media persons. He said that this matter can strike communal tensions, and hence this action is necessary." 
 
 "After the body was found, the police did not let the body stay at the place where it was found, and instead said that the girl is still alive and we should take her to the hospital. I asked them to take her to Shanti Gopal, a private hospital, they first agreed but changed the route mid-way and took her to MMG Hospital Ghaziabad instead where the doctors declared her brought dead. Then they forced us to cremate the body at the same time to save trouble for them. We demand probe into this and want an answer," he added. 
 
 The family members of the girl have also demanded a meeting with CM Yogi Adityanath. 
 
 Condemning the incident, Pankaj Singh, MLA Noida said, "I have asked the administration to look into this matter carefully and arrest the animals who do things like these. I have also told the Ghaziabad DM to come and meet the family on her own and help them in whatever ways they deserve. Justice should be served in this case as soon as possible and it should be an example and a stern message for people to remember that no act of injustice will go unpunished and the accused will be severely punished for this." 
 
 "The family members of the girl have cooperated so far with the police and I have assured them that I will personally be in touch with them and look into this matter on my own," Singh added. 
 
 Singh denied speaking about CM Yogi Adityanath with the girl's family members and said, " The girl's father and grandfather just wanted that there should be no pressure on them from any side and it should be an independent investigation and I assured them of the same."
 
 When asked about the allegations raised against the police officials, he said, "The police have told me that they had spoken to the girl's grandfather before cremating her body, and they told me that they had asked for the family members to be called. I just feel that in a situation like this the emotional health of the family members should be taken into consideration by the authorities."
 
