AGRA: The city came to a grinding halt on Friday as Congress vice-president   and Samajwadi Party (SP) president   took out their road show to demonstrate their strength from Dayal Bagh, a BJP stronghold under the Agra North constituency, amid chants of "Ye hui na baat bhaiya" and "UP ko ye saath pasand hai". 

 Clad in their trademark getup, both leaders greeted the cheering crowds lined up along the roads with folded hands and by waving at them. It seemed that they kept their promise of holding a bigger road show in Agra as an unprecedented crowd thronged both sides of the 12-km-long route the two leaders traversed.
 
 Targeting opponents, especially BJP, the UP CM said, "They cheated the country and country's politics. Whenever BJP leaders speak, they spew venom. I and Rahulji want to defeat this politics of hate through path of development. Congress and SP will form the government. Our coalition will change the direction of the country's politics. I thank Rahulji for boosting our morale."
 
  Gandhi promised to throw BJP and RSS out of the state. "I want to talk of brotherhood. BJP only spreads hatred, tries to divide people. Congress and SP work for bringing people together. We will show this. We will throw BJP and RSS out of UP." 
 
 The two leaders stressed that their coalition would not remain limited to the state level, but would only grow in the coming elections. "Our government did several developmental works, which we want to continue after forming the next government," the CM said.
 
 Rahul said, "Today, I and Akhileshji, two youths, have come to change UP for the better. We will form a government which will work for farmers, poor, labourers. We will do so much development that after five years you will not be able to recognize it and think whether it is the same state. Akhileshji has done good job, he worked straight from his heart for UP. There is still work left to do and we will do that after forming the government."
 
 Targeting PM Narendra Modi, Akhilesh Yadav said, "Those who gave us the dream of 'achche din', made everyone stand in queues. He (Modi) got every penny deposited. If not more, please ask him to deposit at least Rs 15,000 in our account. Even in the Centre's budget, no provisions were made for farmers, poor and workers."
 
 While Akhilesh skipped mentioning BSP, Gandhi said he did want to talk about a party which is nowhere in the contest.
 
 Their three-hour show passing through congested bylanes of the city. Congress workers, however, were clearly outnumbered by Samajwadi Party supporters as they raised slogans pitching for Akhilesh as next CM.
 
 As Akhilesh Yadav put it at the end of the road show. "I thank you for making this road show historic. Not only us but each and every Congress and SP worker is sure that we will form the next government. Once this is done, we will work towards changing the country's politics. This is the first phase of election and I can see a huge enthusiasm, which will only grow in the coming days," he told supporters.
 
