CHANDIGARH: BJP president   on Saturday stopped short of blaming Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) for the drubbing that their alliance got in the Punjab assembly elections, saying his party was a ‘minor partner’ even as he heaped praises on their electoral success in Uttar Pradesh.

 Punjab had gone to polls along with Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Manipur and Goa in February-March. While BJP had won three out of 23 seats it contested in Punjab and SAD could barely manage 15 out of 94 seats, relegating the alliance to an embarrassing third position in the state after Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), which became the principal opposition in the Vidhan Sabha with a tally of 20 seats.
 
 “It's a fact and you all know that we were a minor partner in Punjab,” Shah said. He was replying to a query on why his party was faring well in all other neighbouring states with impressive wins and yet a dismal performance in Punjab in both the 2014 Lok Sabha polls and 2017 assembly elections.
 
 When asked if his party would split with the SAD before the 2019 general elections or the 2022 Punjab assembly polls, Shah maintained that the alliance continues “at the present”.
 
 He though admitted that his party is doing a lengthy internal analysis to understand the the loss in Punjab. “We are assessing the defeat and there will certainly be an effort for the course correction,” said Shah. “Whatever is the decision of the party will of course be shared with media,” he added.
 
 Shah also ruled out any attempt by the BJP to defect AAP MLAs. “There is no such move by our party. No body from BJP as a party has any contact with them (Punjab AAP MLAs), I can’t comment on someone on personal level,” said Shah.
 
 Last week, AAP had faced an internal crisis following elevation of Sangrur MP Bhagwant Mann’s elevation as the Punjab unit’s new convener. The move had triggered tussle with its then Punjab convener Gurpreet Singh Waraich ‘Ghuggi’ resigning from the party and firebrand spokesperson Sukhpal Singh Khaira quitting as the chief whip in the asembly.
 
 
