It’s time for the students of   Krishi Vidyapeeth, Nagpur to rejoice. After much delay and series of protests, dean of the institution Dr N D Parlawar has finally given his nod to organise a college fest after seven long years. Here is the lowdown on the fest saga... 

 
 
 The college had decided to discontinue the   festival due to an ugly spat that took place between two groups of students during one of the cultural competitions in 2010. It led to the fests being called off for years. Now that the university has agreed to organise it, management wants an assurance from the students that reputation of the institution will not get tarnished. Spokesperson of the college   informs, “We will organise the college fest during the semester break which begins from April 15. It will be a three-day fest; both cultural and sports activities will be organised for the students to showcase their talent. We shall soon issue a circular once the dates are finalised. It will be students who will organise the fest and decide on various events and competitions. The management will guide them, wherever needed. All we expect from them is — that decorum is maintained. The fest has to be a pleasant experience for everyone.” 
 
 
 
 When college authorities were not in favour of organising the fest and kept denying the permission, students tried their best to make them change their stance. In fact, students even went on strike for a while. Our source says, “We had to put our foot down to make ourselves heard. In the previous years too, despite making several false promises — the college authorities backed off at the last-minute, each time. This year too, we wanted the college fest to be organised in November when majority of the city colleges host these fests, but college management refused to budge and kept delaying the process. So it is little difficult to believe that it is finally happening. There is many a slip between the cup and 
 the lip.”
 
 
 Students, obviously, want to make the most of the event and are eagerly looking forward to this breather from the studies. One of our sources adds, “We have assured our teachers that we will not break any rules. But we really need such breaks from academics as we were not even taken for a college tour. There are hardly any activities organised to develop the students’ personality in the institution. We really hope the management finalises the fest dates soon and informs us at least 10 days in advance, so that we can prepare properly.” 
 
 
 
