PATIALA: The   in the two separate cases of  , who police later claimed were murdered by the same   (occult practitioner), on Monday approached respective   requesting that police should be asked to investigate   in the case.

 The courts were told that there was new evidence on record and that both of them were in contact with the tantrik from Sanour in Patiala. The courts, while issuing a notice to the district police, fixed May 8 as the next date of hearing in both cases.
 
 Ajay Kumar, a resident of Leena village near Sanour, was missing for the last seven months. Parveen Giri, a resident of Gurbaksh Colony, too had gone missing on March 18. The cases of their disappearances had recently been solved by the district police with the arrest of Sanour-based tantrik Gupreet Singh, along with two of his associates Sanjay Kumar and Vicky, and his wife Paramjit Kaur. Police had claimed the four have admitted to have killed Giri and Ajay and thrown their bodies into Bhakra canal.
 
 However, as the bodies of Giri and Ajay remained untraceable, prosecution counsel H V Rai moved court seeking directions that the water flow in Bhakra canal be curtailed to lunch a search for the bodies. It was done on April 10, following which 11 bodies were recovered from Narwana in Jind district of Haryana, but there was still no trace of Giri and Ajay.
 
 Meanwhile, one Manjit Singh, who was also in touch with tantrik Gupreet, came on record claiming that the later had asked him to arrange for ‘narbali’ (human sacrifice) to trace some hidden treasure in Pehowa. Manjit said that Gupreet used to ask him to come with black roosters and liquor. He said after many visits he confronted Gurpreet as to why there were no results of all the rituals, Gurpreet replied that to find treasures human sacrifice was a must.
 
 In his statement, Manjit claimed that as they got into an argument over the issue, Gurpreet threatened him to keep his mouth shut or he would offer him as a human sacrifice to please the ‘forces’.
 
 Rai said similarly, the day Ajay had gone missing, he was seen being taken away by Gurpreet with a garland around his neck and red cloth tided on his head. It had raised suspicious that he was offered as human sacrifice.
 
 The lawyer said that one of the applications was moved in the court of chief judicial magistrate (CJM) Poonam Bansal, which is trying the case of Giri, while the other was filed in the court of judicial magistrate first class (JMFC) Harpreet Kaur Nafra, where proceedings in the Ajay’s murder case were underway.
 
 
