BHOPAL: After a dilemma over use of   and non-NCERT books for the last about a month, a   circular finally clears the air as it reveals that using NCERT books from classes 1 to 12 is mandatory.

 It may sound a bitter truth to the CBSE affiliated schools in Bhopal who have been arguing on the word ‘mandatory’ despite knowing the fact that the use of NCERT books has been actually made mandatory by the board. One the circulars issued to the Ajmer region of CBSE affiliated schools (No. CBSE/RO(AJM)/CIRNCERT(BOOKS)/2017-18) dated April 1, 2017, reveals that the CBSE had asked all the schools under this region to comply with the orders as soon as possible. “It is once again reiterated that the principals, heads of schools must pay personal attention towards implementation of usage of NCERT books in their schools. It may be marked that the CBSE office makes surprise visits in the schools to ensure NCERT textbooks are used. Also in the event of receipt of any complaint regarding non-implementation of NCERT books through any source, this office will be bound to initiate action against defaulters as per rules of the board,” reads the circular, a copy of which is with TOI.
 
 It further mentions that “the parents should not be coerced to buy textbooks of private publishers, additional textbooks by the school authorities and all schools must mandatorily use NCERT textbooks from June 2017”. The city’s CBSE schools may not like it, as they have been playing with words on whether the circular issued earlier to schools termed it “mandatory or not”. TOI had reported it earlier that the CBSE schools in the city have decided to continue with non-NCERT books.
 
 Meanwhile, the CBSE circular also clearly indicates that the board has been issuing circulars from time to time for usage of NCERT books. “The schools will follow the books published by NCERT for the middle classes as far as practicable. For class 1-8, the schools will use NCERT books as per rule 15-1(d) of affiliation byelaw and for class 9 to 12 all the major subjects should be NCERT publications,” the official document reads further.
 
 “Recently the board also took the initiative of providing NCERT books for all classes from 1-8 through empanelled distributors and vendors of NCERT, so schools are requested to use NCERT books for said classes to maximum possible extent. The schools, which are yet to implement the orders, are again requested to follow the orders strictly from session 2017-18,” it further notes. Secretary, Sahodaya group of CBSE schools, did not respond to calls despite repeated attempts.
 
