BENGALURU: Despite investing heavily in   over the past 15 years,   has added just 4.71 lakh hectares of   under its irrigation programme.

 As of 2015-16, only 37.42 lakh hectares or 31% of the state's cultivable land was irrigated, holding out little hope to farmers facing increasing hardship due to successive years of drought.
 
 “Hundreds of crores were spent on irrigation projects over the past 15 years, still around 75% of Karnataka's cultivable land is rain-fed,“ said an agriculture department official, blaming the water resources department's slow pace of project work.
 
 According to the data, from 2000-2001 to 2015-16, the state brought and additional 4.71 lakh hectares under the irrigated category while majority of farmers relied on rainfall. Nearly 10 lakh farmers cultivate their land with the help of borewells which are increasingly becoming ineffective due to repeated drought.
 
 “The state government has not been able to provide any substantial contribution by way of major dam projects or canal-based irrigation,“ said a department official.“Further, with the drying up of smaller tanks and encroachments, the minor irrigation lands have also re duced considerably . Perhaps the only time irrigation facilities provided substantial cover was when there were floods in 2008 and the dams were filled to the peak.“
 
 The irrigated area had then gone up from 32.71 lakh hectare (in 2000-01) to 42.79 lakh hectare (in 2010-11). The figure, however, dipped over the next five years to 37.42 lakh hectares.
 
 So, has the Karnataka government failed to provide efficient irrigation systems over the last decade and more?
 Irrigation minister M B Patil said the governments in the past 15 years had done their best and utilised the entire water allocated to Karnataka by various tribunals.“Successive governments have utilized 100% of the water allocated to Karnataka, both from Cauvery and Krishna tribunals. There is no question of us having failed.Cutting across party lines, be it me, Basavaraj Bommai from the   government or H K Patil in the previous government, all of us have used the entire 100% of the allocated water,“ he said.
 
 The minister added that the Upper Bhadra, Singatha luru and   irrigation projects were all in the final stages. “Even the issue of raising the height of the Almatti dam is under way, with slight delays in rehabilitation and reclamation facilities and compensation being worked out. I do not know where these (irrigation) statstics have been generated,“ he pointed out.
 
 Water resources department officials said that while they had potentially added more than 5 lakh hectares, lack of rains and poor flow in tributaries may have led to the fall in irrigated acreage.
 
