NAGPUR: The science-II paper of SSC, which was held on Monday, was all about the textbook.

 The paper didn’t pose many challenges for the ones who referred their textbook. Just like science-I, the paper was not straightforward and questions were logic based. Although the paper was not lengthy, students had to cudgel their brains to answer efficiently.
 
 Science-II teacher Varinder Kaur Ahedi said the tricky questions will actually filter out the students who have worked hard. “Those students should be repaid and so the perplexed nature of the paper is justified.”
 
 It was expected that the paper will be based on the applied part. Ahedi said. “Many students would pass the exam but the ones who focused on keeping their concepts clear will score more. Questions were asked differently and they had to label the brain diagram given. This required skill and practice.”
 
 Sayee Jawatkar said that she checked out the brain diagram just before entering the exam hall and was not confident about it. She said, “I could at least attempt it because of last-moment revision. I was quite nervous before and felt that I needed more time to study. But when I read the questions, I heaved a sigh of relief.”
 
 She added, “I am glad that I read my textbook again and again and followed the instructions of my teacher. It was a major advantage.”
 
 Anchal Bhatia said that everything in the paper was simple, but with a twist. She said, “A few MCQs were based on practicals and some objectives were from the interior portions of the lessons. There was a question about embryology which was completely new and unexpected. Many friends said they couldn’t solve it.”
 
 Although the questions were confusing, there were ample choices, said students.
 
 Anushka Thakre said, “Overall, the paper was good. To secure my marks, I solved the extra questions too. I found the diagrams slightly tough. The last question about the reproduction in plants was the easiest.”
 
  was among the students who believe that science-II is easier than science-I, but found the former more tough in boards. He said, “I was not expecting science-II to be so puzzling. I lost two marks in MCQs as they were not from the exercise behind the chapter and I was uncertain about it.”
 
 
