AHMEDABAD: A 19-year-old girl set herself ablaze at a   on Sola Road early on  . The   suggests a possible tiff with a 16-year-old boy living in the same apartments, suspected to be her boyfriend. Police said the body of Smita Parmar (name changed) was found in a charred condition by the residents of Pratiksha Apartments near the Gujarat Housing Board Colony, at 7.48 am on Sunday. The residents called the city police control room and a team of the Ghatlodia police arrived at the scene.

 “The girl had set herself ablaze in the passage on the first floor of one of the flats in Pratiksha Apartments,” said a Ghatlodia police official. “A few residents tried to help but she had sustained severe burns which proved fatal.” Smita, a resident of Shivalay Apartments, located around 200 metres from the spot, was identified by her family after the news of the immolation spread in the area. Smita had apparently left home on the pretext of buying bread.
 
 While the exact reason for the suicide is yet to be determined, sources in the police said that Smita had developed a friendship six months ago with the 16-year-old boy, who is from the same community as hers. The boy, the son of a school principal in Amreli district, had stopped talking to her a fortnight ago. It had angered her and she had even threatened to end her life by jumping from Pratiksha Apartments where he lives.
 
 “Police are yet to record the boy’s statement. It has been learnt that the boy had gone out to bring his father home late on Saturday night and may have been asleep when the immolation took place,” said a source, adding that the nature of the relationship will be ascertained only from the boy’s statement. “She probably did not try to contact him before taking the extreme step.” Smita’s father is a sanitary worker with a city-based sports club. She was the second child among five children including four girls. Police have registered a case of accidental death and have sent her body for post-mortem to Civil Hospital.
 
 
