AHMEDABAD: With the hand of ISI suspected behind two major train accidents in Uttar Pradesh,   has decided to take a relook at the files of four mysterious   where tragedy was averted in the nick of time. All four incidents took place in the past two and a half years. 

 An ATS team has already left for Motihari in Bihar to question the accused in the UP train accidents, who have claimed they had been hired by an ISI agent based in Nepal.
 
 ATS sources said that four out of total eight such incidents are being probed again for the sabotage angle. In each of these cases, cement sleepers or discarded railway tracks were discovered on rail tracks just before long distance trains were to pass. ATS sources said these couldn’t have been errors but seem to be deliberate attempts to derail trains.
 
 “It was found during primary investigation that cement sleepers, discarded railway tracks and huge stones were placed on the railway tracks which could have easily derailed trains causing enormous loss of life,” said an ATS official. “The trains on the routes were Duronto Express, Pune-Indore Express and Saurashtra mail,” he added.
 
 “This is the reason why we have dispatched a team to Motihari in Bihar to question three accused Umashanker Patel, Mukesh Yadav and  , arrested by Bihar police for their alleged involvement in planning explosives on tracks to derail trains,” a top ATS official said.
 
 Motihari police had claimed that the accused have confessed they were paid through an ISI agent, a Nepalese citizen, Brajesh Giri, to plant explosives to derail   and Ajmer Sealdah Express in November and December, 2016.
 
 Gujarat ATS sources said three such near-accidents took place in August 2014 between Bharuch and Vadodara. “On August 6, 2014 a cement sleeper was found placed on the track between Kim and Kosamba, minutes before Mumbai bound Duronto Express was to pass,” said an ATS official.
 
 “On August 22, 2014, a discarded railway track was found placed on railway lines before   was to pass. Six days later, again, a cement sleeper was found from the tracks between Samlaya and Champaner,” added an ATS official.
 
 The fourth such incident took place on February 4, 2015 near Palej railway station. “A cement sleeper was found on the railway tracks just before Pune- Indore Express was to pass,” said an ATS official. He said if the sabotage angle finds support then the apprehension about Pakistan’s ISI enlisting disaffected groups here may prove true. “We cannot rule out the possibility of Naxal involvement,” said an ATS official.
 
