NAGPUR: Not minding the heatwave warnings and rise in temperature, thousands of people were brimming with enthusiasm and devotion to take part in   celebrations on Tuesday. Chants of ‘Jai Shri Ram’ filled the air as the two ‘shobhayatras’, one from   and another from Ram Nagar, passed through various areas. 

 Idols and huge photographs of Lord Ram and Sita were worshipped at many places even as hundreds of volunteers provided water and ‘prasad’ to devotees to keep up their energy levels intact. Enthusiastic people, young and old alike, took selfies and photographs to capture the moment.
 
 The grandest of all ‘shobhayatras’, taken out by Poddareshwar Ram Mandir, Central Avenue, had ‘Shakti Rath’ ready on the street an hour before it was to start. Assam governor Banwarilal Purohit was the first to reach the temple, followed by mayor Nanda Jichkar and guardian minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule.   reached the venue by 4.20pm and soon after, the aarti began, in the presence of several noted names of the city. Members of the temple committee, in collaboration with city policy, ensured that the roads dug up for Metro Rail project did not pose any hurdle in smooth movement of the ‘shobhayatra’.
 
 For the first time this year, the temple had about 150 volunteers who wore ‘pheta’ and performed ‘shankhanaad’ in unison. “We prepared four ‘taals’ and practised since November,” one of the volunteers said. The conches were specially brought from Rameswaram. 108 women dressed in pink saris walked before the ‘rath’ with ‘kalash’. 
 
 The symbol of unity and brotherhood was evident as the ‘shobhayatra’ was greeted by Nagar Aman Shanti Committee in Mominpura whose members flew pigeons as the ‘rath’ reached there. The procession had about 50 floats, each one more creative and dazzling than the other. Music happened to be an interesting part of the event as Punjabi dance numbers were played alongside Gujarati and Hindi bhajans.
 
 About 1,200 police personnel were deployed throughout the route of the ‘yatra’ and were divided into four groups. Dressed in white kurtas and saffron caps, like every year, the volunteers hauled the ‘rath’ through the 12km distance. The ‘shobhayatra’ that started from the temple wound its way to Itwari Chowk, Mahal, Cotton Market, Sitabuldi and back to Ram Mandir.
 
 In west Nagpur, the ‘shobhayatra’ started from Ram Mandir, Ram Nagar, at 6pm in the presence of Fadnavis, Bawankule, Purohit and Jichkar. Speaking on the occasion, Fadnavis said, “Lord Ram is known to be ‘Maryada Purushottam’ and we should always strive to follow his ideals.” Purohit conveyed his best wishes to the citizens of Nagpur, Assam and Meghalaya. The floats not only depicted scenes from Hindu epics but also had social messages like ‘save water’ and patriotism.
 
 The brass band played ‘Happy birthday to you’, ‘Baar baar yeh din aaye’ and patriotic songs, infusing mirth to the fanfare. An exhibition on saving water was conceptualized by Pravin Mahajan, president of Contractors and Builders Association of Vidarbha. Folk dances were performed by a group from Ramtek. The procession passed through Laxmi Bhuvan Chowk, Shankar Nagar, Abhyankar Nagar and Hill Road before returning to the temple.
 
