CHENNAI: When test reports last year suggested normal sugar levels, 40-year-old Anish Menon was confident he did not have  . His blood glucose levels were below 100mg/dL after the eight-hour fasting test and, a test two hours after a meal had a reading of below 140mg/dL (milligrams per decilitre). But 10 months later,   confirmed that he was diabetic.

 Doctors said a third test — an hour into the two-hour gap between the post-fast and the after-meal tests — could have predicted he was likely to contract the disease and help delay its onset.
 
 But Menon’s physician and the lab didn’t ask for the test, due to lack of awareness or because they did not take scientific evidence seriously, and could not warn Menon that he was at risk of diabetes. This despite the fact that research papers from across the world have for more than two years showed that an elevated sugar level an hour after the first test is a significant indicator of a diabetes threat even if the two other tests return results within the normal glucose range.
 
 More than a dozen studies in the past two years have warned that risk of diabetes is high if the result of 1-hour post-meal test is 155mg/dL.
 
 The country has a huge number of diabetics, doctors say, but is among those in which doctors delay diagnosis. Several hospitals in the city, particularly those that specialise in diabetes, now prescribe the   test, but it is not standard practice among all doctors and diagnostic labs.
 
 Senior diabetologist Dr V Seshiah said unless it part of disgnostic guidelines, doctors cannot advise patients to take the third test. “For now, if the two-hour post-meal sugar level is 140 or more, the person is diabetic,” he said.
 
 Multiple tests for diabetes are not new. In the ’70s, most doctors pricked their patients four times post-meal — after 30 minutes, one hour, 90 minutes and two hours — following the fasting test. Doctors conducted the tests will the late ’90s.
 
 “We cut down on pricks because it was physically painful,” diabetologist Dr V Mohan said. “After studying cases of thousands of patients, we found that three prick tests were effective.”
 
 For the three-prick test, labs test patients after fasting, give them 75g of glucose, test them twice more. Three tests instead of two may increase the cost by Rs150, but doctors say it could be vital. More than 8% of women and nearly 12% of men in India have diabetes and, with a prevalence of diabetes of more than 25% in cities, India has more diabetics than most countries.
 
 Many doctors want guidelines permitting the three-prick test. The   prepared guidelines for doctors to treat diabetes in 2005. Doctors say an update is needed as there have been many scientific developments over the past 12 years.
 
 ICMR director Soumya Swaminathan said the guidelines are due for revision. “We will have to analyse the results of all the research studies,” she said. “If we find convincing scientific evidence, then we must make it a policy.”
 
 
