KOLHAPUR: City-based private bus operators have hiked the ticket prices for the ongoing summer vacation in order to recover yearly operational losses and maximise their profits. 

 The hike is burning a hole in the pockets of travelers as the ticket prices are much higher than those of Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation ( ) buses.
 
 A private operator, on condition of anonymity, said, "  and summer vacation are two important seasons for our business. This is the time we get maximum passenger traffic. Ticket rates vary on daily basis. Hence, we don't have fix ticket rate. For example ticket fare for Mumbai ranges between Rs 600 and 1,000 in normal season. But during holidays, it goes up to Rs 1,200 to Rs 1,500 depending upon the rush."
 
 He added, "Passengers are ready to pay extra to secure tickets. There are many reasons behind the ticket rate hike. On normal days, we are forced to run empty buses many time. We hardly get passengers to fill the bus to its full capacity."
 
 As Kolhapur is loosely connected by the rail network, passengers rely on road transport for long route journey. City sees lot rush on Pune, Mumbai, Solapur, Shirdi, Aurangabad, and Nashik routes. 
 
 Taking this into consideration, MSRTC has started additional ferries on various routes.
 
 Abhidyna Chaughule, a passenger, said, "I visited offices of many private operators. I was surprised to hear different ticket rates for the same route. My relatives had to travel to Mumbai. I was told different rates ranging from Rs 500 to Rs 1,300. There should be regulations on ticket rates. It's exploitation of passengers."
 
 President of Kolhapur luxury bus operators and transportation organisation   said, "We have made several demands regarding regulations on private bus operators to   (RTO) Kolhapur. But we have not received any response. There is fierce competition among private operators to attract passengers. Therefore, they charge lower tickets. But during peak period they try to recover the losses by increasing the ticket rates. They only get summer and Diwali to recover operational losses. Government gives no excuse in passenger tax. Thus, private operators have no other option than hike the tickets."
 
 A senior MSRTC official said, "To cater to the summer rush, we have increased number of ferries for three months. We have not hiked fares on any routes. Many times, passenger rush to MSRTC buses when private operators increase ticket fares. Passengers often prefer private buses owing to their low ticket rates. But private bus operators offer no security. Our journeys are insured. Therefore, we appeal to the passengers to travel by MSRTC buses." 
 
