AHMEDABAD: State   ( ) registered an FIR against I I Shaikh, an inspector earlier working with state   (crime), for allegedly demanding Rs 5 crore from an accused in Rs 190 crore VAT evasion scam registered in March 2016.

 Sources said that the FIR mentions a top IPS officer who was to get a part of the  . ACB officials said that the allegations are yet to be verified.
 
 According to ACB officials, the complaint has been filed by a representative of one of the accused based in Ahmedabad. Shaikh, investigating officer (IO) of the case, had approached the representative soon after the FIR was registered and had asked him to come to CID’s office in Meghaninagar.
 
 The FIR mentioned that when the complainant went to the office on March 28, Shaikh had allegedly told him that he would not arrest the accused if they agree to pay Rs 5 crore. Shaikh mentioned that there is a lot of pressure from the IPS officer for the money. When the representative did not agree to pay, Shaikh persisted and called him repeatedly and also gave example of other accused of the same case who had allegedly already paid to evade arrest or further probe.
 
 When the representative refused to pay, Shaikh threatened to get a warrant issued against the accused. When next meeting took place, he agreed at Rs 3 crore — Rs 1 crore for representative and Rs 1 crore each for himself and the IPS officer. By that time, the complainant had already started recording their conversations.
 
 The recordings mentioned Shaikh claiming that other accused had agreed for ‘setting’ and even suggested to the complainant that the accused has influential friends for whom Rs 2 crore is not a big amount. In the talks, he also mentioned that the other accused had willingly paid Rs 1.75 crore to a former IPS officer and a DSP-rank officer.
 
 The recording and transcript were presented to the city sessions court in August last year when hearing took place for the anticipatory bail. The court took cognizance of the allegations and had asked the state DGP to institute a probe. Meanwhile, the family members of the accused had also approached the state DGP claiming that the fair probe cannot be expected with such practices. For a while, the probe was transferred but it again went back to CID (crime) with formation of an SIT.
 
 The anticipatory bail of the accused has already been granted by the Gujarat high court in October last year.
 
