To be seen on the small screen is very much a part of Gujarati movie actors' itinerary. But, if you are thinking our Gujarati film actors are seldom making appearances on small screen for their movie promotions, then you are mistaken.Gujarati show-makers are ensuring that they bring an element of glam in form of cameos for their viewers from the local movie industry . It also gives interesting twists and of course grab eyeballs.
 
  To illustrate a few starry moments -recently , Suri ­ Laavshe Sapna Ni Savar had cameos by   and   as the show was taking an interesting twist regarding the issue of Suri's studies.Even   took up a story as protagonist (for a few episodes) in the current season of Chhuta Chheda. Jayaka keeps on with her cameo in the other daily soap Suri, Hitu Kanodia and Mamta Soni too were part of festive cameo during Ganeshotsav. Not only that, for Janmashtami episode of Shukra Mangal ­ Siddharth Randeria was roped in to bring a twist in the tale as Tulsi ( ) is back home post a serious accident.
  
  ....AND THE TWIST
  
  To bring that turning points, many makers prefer to opt D-Town big names ­ who join the show for an episode or two and act as catalyst to twist the track. Not only that, but also to highlight few burning social issues. As Jayaka Yagnik says, “I took up a complete negative character in the episodes of Chhuta Chheda ­ and the idea was to highlight the flip side of divorces in the society .Such story-telling is important so that it brings awareness amongst viewers ­ and as an actor ­ it is a social responsibility .“ Even Sanjay Goradia, producer of Shukra Mangal says, “When we rope in a veteran Gujarati movie actor, the core idea is that hisher cameo should bring in some interesting twist in the show ­ and that's how their starry images help us with the show. It is not to simply grab eyeballs but they put in some message to our viewers as well.“
  
  FESTIVE TRACKS GET VIBRANT WITH D-TOWN VETERANS
  
  For the Ganeshotsav and Janmashtami episodes, actors like Hitu Kanodia, Mamta Soni and Siddharth Randeria put up interesting cameos in the shows: Suri and Shukra Mangal. Hitu Kanodia shares his expe rience, “It was an interesting concept to include performances and invite us on the show. It creates an interesting platform for all the actors. Infact, I have been part of a couple of stories in the previous season of Chhuta Chheda along with Mona (Thiba Kanodia) and that too was a good experience.“ Even actress Riddhi Dave added, “It is wonder ful to meet the actors from the film industry, interact with them, understand their working culture and share acting space. It breaks the element of monotony and and the grand scale of such episodes adds more excite ment.“
  
  So it is not just movie promotion ­ but the idea of these D-Town biggies is to be the part of some inter esting story telling or to bring in an ele ment of social messages.
