Nagpur: Ignoring the orders of Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) is yet to remove   from 20 roads widened under   (IRDP), implemented some fifteen years ago. Out of the total 39 IRDP roads, the civic agency has removed poles from only 19 roads. 

 The list of roads available with TOI shows that these 20 roads are spread all over the city. As a result of widening under IRDP, these poles had come in the middle of the road. These poles not only create obstructions in way of smooth flow of traffic but also pose threats to lives of vehicle drivers and their co-passengers.
 
 Nagpurians have directly paid for the removal of these poles. MSEDCL had levied a surcharge of 9 paise per unit for three years for removing these poles. Part of this amount is lying idle with the discom.
 
 As per the HC order, NMC and state discom MSEDCL have to equally share the cost of removing the poles. A MSEDCL official told TOI, on the condition of anonymity, that NMC had not floated tenders in this regard since last two years.
 
 “We have Rs25 crore in our account for this work but NMC is yet to float the tenders. We can’t hand over the money to it without a tender,” the official said.
 
 NMC electrical engineer S Jaiswal claimed that most of the work on these roads had been done. “We have completed 90% of the work. Poles remain only in places having bottlenecks. We are preparing revised estimate for the works,” he told TOI. However, the fact is that Rs50 crore meant for pole removal have not been spent so far.
 
 Anil Kilor, president of  , which had filed a public interest litigation (PIL) regarding the poles in 2010, slammed NMC for its callous attitude. “The officials had promised to the HC that they would remove the poles by April 30, 2012. They have committed contempt of court by failing to adhere to the deadline. They can’t do their basic job and talk of converting Nagpur into a smart city. In fact, they are building the cement roads without removing the electric poles creating new traffic hazards. NMC is responsible for the accidents and lives lost due to the poles,” he told TOI.
 
 The HC in August 2011 had pulled up NMC and MSEDCL for not removing these polls. There were 8,834 such poles at that time and their removal was to cost Rs101.57 crore.
 
