VARANASI: The   (BHU) remained tense but calm amidst tight security arrangements on Sunday following a night-long violence in the campus.
 
 However, massive political activities started outside the University in this episode as a Sarvadaliya (all party) march carried out by former student union leaders, employees and academicians of BHU in the evening led to panic in Lanka area as all the shops were closed. UP Congress Committee chief   along with dozens of supporters was detained while making a bid to reach BHU.
  
 Except minor scuffles with police in the bid to carry out peace march by a group of students no other untoward incident occurred on campus. The police and PAC personnel carried out a flag march after dusk on the campus.
  
 In view of the disturbed conditions, the BHU administration revised the festival holidays and decided to reopen the varsity after October 2 only. The district administration also announced that other universities including Mahatma Gandhi Kashi Vidyapeeth, Sampurnanand Sanskrit University and colleges affiliated to them would also remain closed till October 2.
  
 A total of three FIRs had been lodged by the BHU administration in the cases of sexual harassment of a girl student on September 21 evening that sparked agitation, violence on campus and display of provocative photograph on a Facebook web-page BHU Buzz that was used for live streaming of violence on campus on Sunday night. The BHU administration also formed a high-level committee to probe into the incident. Through a tweet, the chief minister   informed that a report on BHU incident had been sought from the divisional commissioner Nitin Ramesh Gokarn.
  
 Following an incident of alleged sexual harassment of a girl student of faculty of visual arts near Bharat Kala Bhawan, when she was returning her hostel in Triveni complex on BHU campus, the inmates of girl hostels went on rampage on September 21 night. They started a sit-in and demonstration by blocking the main gate of the varsity from September 22 morning. Apart from demanding proper security arrangements for them, the girls were rigid that until the vice chancellor GC Tripathi reaches the agitation venue to talk to them, they would continue their protest. Due to the stir, the route of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s fleet was changed when he was going to Durgakund temple from DLW on September 22 evening. The deadlock between the demonstrators and the varsity administration continued till Saturday evening.
  
 On Saturday late night violence erupted the campus when police canned a group of boy students, who were accompanied by few girl students, near VC lodged on campus. After this incident, the police used force to disperse the gathering of demonstrators at the BHU gate. In reaction to it, the groups of protesters started hurling petrol bombs and indulged in brick batting. The district magistrate Yogeshwar Ram Mishra and SSP RK Bhardwaj said that after increased law and order problem the cops swung into action to bring the situation under control. The BHU administration claimed that the students indulged in violence did not belong to BHU.
  
 In this violence seven students including girls and equal number of policemen including SP City Dinesh Singh suffered injuries. Injured students were admitted to trauma center. The police had to exercise hard till 3am to bring situation under control.
 
