Pune: The Kondhwa   on Thursday afternoon found the decomposed   of a 61-year-old software consultant and his 18-year-old daughter from their flat at  . 

 Kiran Devendra Patil and his daughter, Niyata a Class XI student, were staying at Kingston Elysia on rent near Sai Shradha bungalows society, around 12km from Pune.
 
 Two suicide notes signed by Patil and Niyata in English read that they were taking the extreme step because of financial constraints and domestic disputes.
 
 The incident came to light after Patil’s colleagues visited his home because he had not reported for work for a few days. On finding that foul smell was emanating from his flat on the first floor of the building, they alerted the city police control room around 11.20am. 
 
 A team from Kondhwa police reached the spot and took help of the fire brigade to break the locks of the main door and bedroom and recovered the two bodies.
 
 The police faced difficulties to send the bodies to the Sassoon General Hospital for autospy as two ambulances refused to carry the corpses because of the stench. The police finally took help of a social activist for sending the bodies to the hospital in a private ambulance.
 
 Senior inspector (Kondhwa police station) Satish Govekar said, “We are yet to ascertain the cause leading to the suicide. Patil and his daughter were found seated on chairs. We suspect that they had committed suicide around eight days ago. Details can be known only after the autopsy report arrives.” 
 
 He added, “Patil and Niyata are residents of Naupada in Thane city. Investigation revealed that Patil’s wife had filed a complaint against him under section 498 (a) of the Indian Penal Code with the Kondhwa police in 2016. He was then living in Undri.” 
 
 Police have registered a case of accidental death.
 
 Taheer Poonawala, a resident of the building, said, “We recovered a dead pigeon from the building around two days ago after some residents complained of foul smell. The stench, however, continued and we could not detect its source. We got to know about the suicides only after Patil’s colleagues called police. Both the man and his daughter never interacted with the neighbours." 
 
 The residence of Patil’s neighbour was locked when the TOI reporter visited the spot. Other residents refused to share information on Patil on the ground that he was not known to them. 
 
 
