NAGPUR: Upholding the Akola family court verdict dissolving the marriage of a couple, Nagpur bench of   ruled that the wife’s refusal to have regular intercourse with the   amounts to cruelty and is a ground for divorce.

 “The refusal on wife’s part to cohabit with husband and have a physical relationship with him has surely resulted in causing cruelty to him. There is ample evidence on record to show that he suffered mental cruelty in view of wife’s refusal to do household work, cohabit with the husband, and maintain physical relationship with him,” a division bench comprising justice   and justice Vinay Deshpande held.
 
 The couple entered into wedlock on December 17, 2001, but the wife developed a peculiar habit of often going to her maternal home, stay there for months, and come back only when the husband or other in-laws picked her up. She also refused to do any household chores, cohabit and maintain sexual relationship with the husband on one or the other pretext like Poornima and Amavasya. She also misbehaved with the in-laws. All this caused mental agony to the husband, forcing him to approach the judiciary to severe matrimonial ties.
 
 Denying all allegations, the wife said the in-laws demanded dowry of Rs50,000 from her parents and on refusal, she was driven out from the matrimonial home.
 
 Relying on the husband’s testimony, the   dissolved their marriage on April 15, 2011, which the wife challenged in the high court.
 
 Citing her cross-examination report, justices Naik and Deshpande pointed out that she was advised by elders in the family several times to freely maintain sexual relations with her husband. “If wife was freely maintaining physical contact with husband and ready to cohabit with him, there was no reason for her relatives to advise her in this regard.”
 
 The judges noted that the husband proved the wife’s insistence to stay away from the joint family, but wife failed to prove claim of dowry made by the in-laws. “The family court rightly appreciated evidence of both parties to hold that the husband was successful in proving that the wife treated him with cruelty. The family court’s verdict is just and proper, and doesn’t call for any interference,” the judges said while rejecting the wife’s plea.
 
