NEW DELHI: Delhi Jal Board’s interceptor sewer   that was scheduled to end in 2010 will take another year for completion. The sewer system is a network of parallel channels to be built along Najafgarh, Shahdara and supplementary drains for trapping sewage and ensuring its treatment before its release into the Yamuna.

 The project, promoted as the “only” workable solution to clean the river, was initially promised before the 2010 Commonwealth Games that would ensure a sparkling Yamuna for the hundreds of visitors expected during the event. However, work was commissioned only in 2011 with a deadline of three years and there is already a delay of four years.
 
 About 85% of work had been completed, but the project had stalled about a year back due to an   order which prohibited any expenditure on drainage projects, an official said.
 
 “For about nine months, no work was done and when the stay was removed, a committee was formed to oversee the work. By this time, the contractors had demobilised their staff etc. Now they are asking for an advance to start the work,” a DJB official said.
 
 Despite the advanced state of the project, it is only trapping 90 million gallons per day of sewage against the approximately 250 MGD it is supposed to trap. This, said sources, was because several small works that would provide the last point connectivity to the drains were still pending.
 
 The Rs 2,000 crore project will, even when it is completed, treat only about 75% of the total sewage released into Yamuna. It has been criticised by environmental NGOs for being a capital intensive project that would not deliver on the basic direction issued by the   — that the water should be clean to ‘bathing’ quality levels.
 
 Meanwhile, DJB has started a pilot project for using wetlands as a means of treating water. To start with, it will take up the Najafgarh basin, looking at bioremediation and creation of wetlands as a means of treating water.
 
 Mriganka Saxena, senior consultant and urban planner with DJB said that this would provide a secondary level of treatment for the sewage.
 
 “While we will be cleaning the drain, we will implement a comprehensive strategy for solid waste and sludge management. This will be followed by the additional creation of biodiversity and eco-pathways. The supplementary drain is the largest tributary of the Najafgarh drain and work for it has been tendered out. DJB has finalised an Israeli firm, Ayala, for it. In about two months, we will have finalised a revival plan for the entire Najafgarh basin,” she said.
 
 The bio-remediation process by DJB that is likely to be adopted for the Najafgarh basin, includes tertiary sewage treatment, storm water management, rainwater harvesting among others.
 
 
