I will get fit. I will save money. I will quit smoking. Every year we make these resolutions and every year we inevitably break them. Some, we break because we are too lazy to stick to them, and some we never intend to stick to anyway. This year, we have come up with a list of quirky, seemingly insignificant resolutions that will add some fun to this boring   ritual. And we bet, it will take you every bit of your steely resolve to not break them. 

 1. 
  Let’s put it this way — if you were really being honest everytime you wrote LOL, it would be you sitting on the guest chair of The Kapil Sharma Show, not Navjot Singh Sidhu. LOL is the way DGAF is really spelt in WhatsApp language. Better, switch off the read receipts (blue tick) on your phone. 
 
 2. 
  This is not New York, number one. You are not Carrie Bradshaw, two. But most importantly, we are sanskaari people and we still change the channel every time mom walks in, which is a lot. For life lessons, we have CID — one door closes... just kick it open man. #gangstaswag. 
 
 3. 
  You are going to get late anyway. It’s not like the five 45-second interval alarms are going to save you from that ominous message from boss, “It’s 9.45 am. Where are you?” It’s better you sleep interruption-free for 4*45 seconds = 3 more minutes, before getting inevitably late.
 
 4. 
  Enough deaths in real life. Enough deaths in reel life, too. And then Brangelina too broke up. I am not trying to kill myself with heartbreak. It is better to invest myself in internet personality quizzes than in the Stark siblings’ future. At least with them, it doesn’t matter what my answers are, the result is always the same!
 
 5. 
  Uh uh, if you are trying to masquerade as a wannabe-photographer, stick to your Crema or Gingham or better still, manual adjustments. X-Pro II is for the #Instanovices and it shows, trust us. Sneaky Tip: Try the vignette tool — subtly pro. 
 
 6. 
  Let’s be honest here. Nobody looks good while dancing. We aren’t talking about the swaying to the music kinda dance here, this is the real deal — the ‘can't-move-my-neck-the-next-day’ kind of dance. And rest assured, you are going to find yourself turned into a meme when you log onto social media the next day. The world has seen enough gory sights. The emotions that sweep over our face while dancing to Kaala Chashma, contorting it to gruesome levels, is something the world can do without.
 
 7. 
  That’s plain rude. How much sleep does people really get in Mumbai? All we are asking for is a bit of empathy. When we see a homie snatching 15 minutes of sleep despite the combined effect of sweat and gajra, we do not jolt them up, for our own selfish reasons. We just mutter ‘awww’ under breath. After all, Mumbai is the city of dreams, right? We wouldn’t wanna change that.
 
 8. 
  That’s it. I am #doneandout. I can not go on #livingmylife from #timetogetup to #offtodreamland every freaking day. So what if i suffer from #hashtagwithdrawal? #fighternotquitter #blahblahblah
 
 9. 
  If I do, I do! Period. It’s   and it’s time I learnt to love myself. What? You were expecting a joke here? We don’t joke about body image issues. Bodyshaming is not cool, and I am not doing that to myself. No, seriously!
 
 10. 
  Enough salivating over food porn, let’s just burp that one out and move on, shall we? Instead, I will post pictures of people digging into delicious stuff, mayo on their lips, crumbs in their cleavages and stains on their shirts. So much more wow. I can almost see a new viral trend in this — NOTglutshaming.
 
