NEW DELHI: Even as India aims to eliminate tuberculosis by 2025, un-notified cases continue to pose a major challenge along with multiple drug resistance. India, which has the highest burden of TB in the world, also accounts for the majority of the 4.3 million gap between incident and notified TB cases, a latest   assessment shows. 

 According to the UN agency's report, 6.1 million new TB cases were notified globally in 2015 to national authorities and reported to WHO. 
 
 "This reflects a 4.3 million gap between incident and notified cases, with India, Indonesia and   accounting for almost half of this gap," the report said.
 
 India is among those six countries which accounts for 60% of the 10.4 million new TB cases in 2015. Though the number of TB deaths and the TB incidence rate continued to fall globally and in India, the UN agency said un-notified cases are a reason for concern because they create an obstacle in surveillance. 
 
 Of these new cases, 5.9 million were men, 3.5 million were women and 1 million were children. People living with HIV accounted for 11% of the total figure, the WHO said.
 
 Globally, the treatment success rate for people newly diagnosed with TB was 83% in 2014.
 
 In an effort to address stigma, discrimination, marginalisation and to overcome barriers to access care, the UN agency is launching a new world campaign 'Unite to End TB'.
 
 India also has a high rate of multi-drug resistant TB cases. In fact, India along with China and   accounts for 45% multidrug-resistant TB. Nearly 4,80,000 people contracted multi-drug resistant TB in 2015.
 
 India is under international pressure to tackle the TB problem on priority, as India accounts for 1,400 of the 5,000 TB deaths daily at the global level. Poor sanitation and poor nutrition, mainly in rural areas, have also made elimination of tuberculosis from India a distant dream. 
 
 The government is now working to create awareness around the disease along with standardization of treatment. It has also roped in Bollywood megastar   for its campaign on tuberculosis.
 
 While the tuberculosis menace is on the rise, a large number of cases still go undetected. According to WHO, India tops the list of the world's missed tuberculosis cases. Almost 24% of the world's missed tuberculosis cases are from India, and 50% of detected cases are not reported.
 
 
