NEW DELHI: Once a favoured path to fame, filing of public interest litigations (PILs) turned into a nightmare for NGO ‘Suraz India Trust’ and its chairman Rajiv Dahiya as the Supreme   on Monday fined them Rs 25 lakh for filing 64 failed PILs in the apex court and also barred them for life from filing such petitions. 

 Dahiya, who had complained of not being given an opportunity to advance his arguments by the SC, was given one and a half hours to make submissions to his heart’s content by a bench of Chief Justice J S Khehar, Justice D Y Chandrachud and Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul. The court had pointed out to Dahiya that he and his NGO had filed 64 PILs in the SC since 2010 and all were dismissed for being “devoid of merit”. The NGO’s PILs, argued by Dahiya himself, were dismissed by benches headed by ex-CJI K G Balakrishnan and Justices M K Sharma, P Sathasivam, B S Chauhan, J Chelameswar, Dipak Misra, A K Goel and A K Sikri. 
 
 The NGO’s latest PIL questioned the constitutional validity of a provision in the Judges Inquiry Act. But without going into the merits of the PIL, the bench wanted Dahiya to answer why he filed so many PILs and made allegations against judges of the SC and the Rajasthan HC. The bench said, “Dahiya could not explain why no judge found any merit in any of his 64 PILs. It is apparent that Dahiya seriously lacks maturity to understand simple legal issues. Earlier too, the court had recorded that he was not competent to assist the court.” 
 
 The bench recorded in detail the NGO’s activities in filing PILs and the incompetent manner in which Dahiya addressed the court. “Narration recorded above leaves us in no doubt that   has misused the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court. On 64 occasions, it had filed PILs but without a single success,” it said. “Waste of judicial time of the Supreme Court is a serious issue as it takes up extremely important matters. But this exercise lags behind because of misconceived interventions by individuals that impede adjudication of important matters. All such endeavours have to be dealt with sternly to prevent such misuse of PILs and waste of precious judicial time,” it added. 
 
 The bench referred to the scandalous allegations made by the NGO against judges of the SC and the Rajasthan HC and recalled that Dahiya had sent letters to an ex-CJI and judges on their residential addresses. “To stop it once and for all, Suraz India Trust will not file any PIL before any court in the country. Dahiya will not file any PIL either on behalf of himself, his NGO or through anyone else,” it said. “For the judicial time wasted by Suraz India Trust and Dahiya, we intend to impose exemplary cost so as to discourage such misadventures in future,” the bench said and asked the NGO to pay a fine of Rs 25 lakh within a month.
 
