BENGALURU: A man was found hiding in the bathroom of a   when a police team, acting on a  , searched her hostel room on Saturday, said M G Chandrakanth, director,   ( ), on Tuesday. 

 However, the issue took a serious turn on Monday when students protested against police, saying it was an all-male team that had entered the women's hostel. The students demanded the director's resignation, alleging that their pleas seeking his intervention went unresponded.
 
 However, Chandrakanth told TOI that woman warden Malini had accompanied the police team that searched the hostel.
 
 Earlier in the afternoon, a woman student had filed a written complaint with Jnana bharathi police, saying that a stranger had entered a woman's room and she was feeling 'unsafe'. "Police knocked the door of the woman's room and entered it in the presence of warden. There was no one in the room other than the student. But when police opened the bathroom, they saw a man inside," he said. 
 
  The woman told police that the man was her local guardian. M N Anuchet, DCP (west), said they have closed the case since there was no offence. "We have asked the hostel warden to look into the matter. Police officials had taken precautionary measures, including the requisite permission before entering the hostel," he said.
 
 Ravindra, chairman of board of directors, said a four-member committee has been formed to look into issues and submit a report. "The committee will look into not only the Saturday issue, but also the other issues which students have raised," he said. 
 
  A student said they are not happy with the director's rules. "He objects to men entering the hostel. We are all grown-ups and mature individuals. We will have academic issues and need to interact with each other. But he treats us like schoolchildren. Since Chandrakanth took over in May 2016, we have had staged protests four times against his strict rules and issues related to scholarship. The man who was found in the bathroom was none other than the fiance of the student," he added. 
 
