MUMBAI: At a time when online sales of laptops and computers are booming, the Maharashtra government has surprisingly excluded the purchase of IT products from the Centre’s new online portal launched to buy government supplies. The decision was taken against the advice of the state industries department.

 As a result, Maharashtra is among the few states in the country to exclude IT entirely from the government e-marketplace (GEM) portal to buy government supplies patterned on Amazon and Flipkart, central officials say. Launched last year, GEM is aimed at boosting transparency and competitive pricing in public purchasing.
 
 Sources say that proposal to adopt the GEM portal for all state departments was sent by the industries department to the state cabinet on July 18th. The cabinet passed it with a crucial difference: it excluded IT products entirely. A government resolution to this effect was issued on August 24th. Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis holds the IT portfolio.
 
 The decision has raised eyebrows since IT products form a fair chunk of government procurement. In fact, IT procurement is the backbone of the GEM portal, central officials say.
 
 When asked about the exclusion, Fadnavis said IT products will be included at a later stage. “They have not been excluded. A policy is being made on how to include them. A decision will soon be taken,” Fadnavis told TOI.
 
 Currently, IT equipment is being purchased by the   set up last year through e-tendering on quantities which are fixed annually. By contrast, the GEM portal links 11493 buyers in the government to 31,323 sellers an 1.6 lakh products ranging from pens to cars. Orders can be placed for small volumes and prices offered keep changing.
 
 In its proposal to the state cabinet, the industries department said that purchasing under the GEM portal would fetch prices which were at least 10-20% lower than the MRP, sources said. Bulk purchasing on the portal could fetch prices 30-40% lower. It added that procurement through rate contract had had turned controversial with multiple complaints being received in recent years.
 
 However, the state IT department raised objections saying the Maharashtra IT Corporation had been tasked with buying IT hardware and had already received funds worth Rs 73 crores. The IT department also argued that if each office placed orders separately on the GEM portal, the government would not benefit from a bulk order discount.
 
 However, the industries department said that IT hardware orders could in fact be placed in bulk. It also pointed to the alarming fact that various government departments were still waiting for IT products ordered last year even though they had made advance payments. It said that placing orders through the GEM portal would help avoid such delays.
 
 Over the last year, few IT products have been procured for state government departments despite the demand, sources say. State government departments had placed orders for 2 lakh products since last December including 10,000 desktops, 20,000 laptops and 1.4 lakh biometric devices. But only 30% of this has been delivered so far, IT officials say. However, they say payment delays from departments contributed to the lag.
 
 State IT secretary   says the government is assessing how GEM works before deciding whether to adopt it for IT products. “The GEM portal works better for passive products like table and chairs, not for active products like IT equipment. We have managed to get lower prices than GEM in some cases,” he says. Grievance redressal and standardized anti-virus programmes are also easier when there is a contract with a vendor,” says Gautam who also heads the Maharashtra IT Corporation.
 
 However, officials from the Centre’s Directorate General of Supplies and Disposal (DGSND) which runs the GEM portal say other states with their own IT Corporations have joined the portal. “Maharashtra is perhaps the only state to exclude IT entirely from GEM. In fact, there is no reason why the Maharashtra IT Corporation cannot place its bulk orders through GEM. The IT Corporations of states like   and   are placing their orders through GEM,” said a senior officer from the department.
 
