There are no two views about cricket being a religion in this country and when the Gods of cricket in the state win their maiden Ranji title since its inception in 1934, the least Gujaratis can expect is a grand welcome for the victors. Not only have the sportspersons in white brought laurels to a state that is slowly establishing its place in the sporting firmament, they have also buried the ghosts of the past that they can never win the cup. Gujarat won their maiden   title on Saturday defeating the mighty Mumbai, who are not only the most successful team with 41 crowns in Ranji history but also a team that has scarred Gujarat the most in the past.

 “Beating a team like Mumbai means a lot to us. They are the champion team and the Goliath of domestic cricket,” Gujarat’s chief coach Vijay Patel told Mirror during the course of their journey. “Moreover, we don’t have an impressive record against them,” he said. Despite the significance of the win, Mirror was shocked to see that there was no one from   ( ) to welcome the team at the airport early on Sunday morning. When the team arrived at the airport, only their near and dear ones along with some others were present to welcome the team with garlands and bouquets.
 
 “I did not arrive with the team. But I had informed the officials about the team’s arrival,” GCA secretary Rajesh Patel said. “But we have made elaborate arrangements to felicitate the team on Monday. Our president (Amit Shah) has already announced Rs 3 crore for the team for their feat.” When Mirror contacted the officials, they had only excuses to offer. While GCA treasurer Dhiraj Jogani said that he was not aware of the schedule, joint secretary Bharat Dudhiya said he is too old to venture out so early in the morning. “Our vice-president Parimal Nathwani, secretary Rajesh Patel and joint secretary Jay Shah were with the team.
 
 But I was not informed about anything,” Jogani said. “Rajeshbhai did inform me about the arrival but I have been ill for the past three days. Also I am too old to be out there so early in a winter morning,” Dudhiya said. Brushing aside the issue, Gujarat’s Ranji Trophy coach Hitesh Majmudar said, “Our vice-president, secretary and joint secretary were there at Indore. We celebrated our win there. I have learnt that the association has planned an elaborate felicitation on Monday. Moreover, we were in a rush to catch up with our families and celebrate Vasi Uttarayan.
 
 So, I don’t think it is an issue.” Despite all the sweet talking, people associated with the game are not happy with GCA’s apathy towards its players who made the state proud. “I am quite shocked to learn that there was no one from GCA to welcome the players. Come on, these players have made us proud and reached heights that no one has scaled before. The association should have shown some consideration for them,” said Deepak Rawat, alocal coach. Deval Lathigara, who has successfully coached a local cricket team, too was disappointed.
 
 “I remember when Smit Patel and Rush Kalaria returned after winning the under-19 World Cup, there were wild celebrations. GCA officials were there and they were part of the grand welcome. I am surprised that there was no one in the morning,” Lathigara said. “I thought this win warranted a bigger celebration and I am surprised at the association’s response.”
 
