NEW DELHI: Asserting that they have no role in engaging vans for transporting students, private   in the capital have called for a blanket   on them. School authorities claim that they have consistently asked parents to avoid “illegal vans” as they often compromise on the safety of children.

 Parents go in for this mode of transport primarily because either the school bus may not be plying on their route, or they want their ward to be picked up from and dropped at their doorsteps. 
 
 Ameeta Mohan, principal, Amity International, Pushp Vihar, said: “We should stop the use of vans, as they are the most unsafe mode of transport for children. There are school buses for which the schools are responsible. Otherwise, parents can go in for carpool.”   added that van drivers were “completely irresponsible” and schools couldn’t track or monitor them. 
 
 “At every meeting with parents, we reiterate that they visit the school in the afternoon and see for themselves how unsafe these vans are. Just because of gate-to-gate drop and pickup, they can’t be the solution,” she added. These vans are unsafe on four counts: the vehicles don’t have a licence to ferry schoolchildren; they are mostly overloaded; many vans cater to multiple schools and, thus, the drivers are forever in a hurry; and the children are vulnerable to attacks by the driver.
 
 Teachers see this is as a systemic issue and say the responsibility of children’s safety squarely lies with the central and state governments. 
 
 Ameeta Mulla Wattal, principal, Springdales, Pusa Road, said: “Even traffic cops don’t stop these vans. It’s a systemic problem — both parents and police need to act. This is also a responsibility of the society and there should be a drive against these vans. We keep telling parents that we are ready to get more buses, but they prefer the unsafe door-to-door service.” 
 
 Ashok Pandey, principal, Ahlcon International, Mayur VIhar Phase-II, said safety of children should come first, no matter what the provocation for using these modes of transport.
 
