LUDHIANA:   have booked parents of the two   fished out of   on Tuesday morning on   and   

 On Tuesday around 6am, two teenage girls -- Preety, 16, and Jyoti, 17, of Barewal Road -- were taken out of Sidhwan Canal near gate number 8 of Punjab Agricultural University.
 
 While the elder sister had died, Preety was admitted to civil hospital. Earlier, Preety had told the police that they were orphans and begged near Durga Mata Mandir, near Jagraon flyover, and around railway station for a living. She had also told the police that on Monday late evening an unidentified person gave them a snack. After eating it, both got unconscious and the next morning, when she gained consciousness, she was inside the canal.
 
 Police, however, smelled a rat in her version.
 
 On being quizzed further, Preety spilled the beans. 
 
 In her complaint to the police on Tuesday night, Preety said they were both Class X students of a government school. Their parents would cast aspersions on their character and often beat them up. On Monday around 11.30pm, her father gave her and Jyoti a snack to eat. Since she had eaten half of it, she was semi-conscious, but her sister got unconscious. Afterwards, their father tied them with dupattas, put them inside his auto and threw them in the canal. When she gained consciousness on Tuesday morning, both were in the canal. Some commuters took them out, called an ambulance and took them to the civil hospital, where Jyoti was declared dead.
 
 PAU police have booked their father Udi Chand, an auto driver, and mother Lakshmi under sections 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder), 325 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the IPC.
 
 PAU SHO sub-inspector Davinder Sharma said they doubted the earlier story told by the girl, and after gaining her trust, they managed to worm out of her information about her parents and the sequence of events.
 
 The initial police inquiry found that the family was upset with both the sisters and the neighbours often heard the girls arguing with parents. On Tuesday too, they had some arguments.
 
 The police on Wednesday raided the house, but could not find the parents. The police, however, said they would cross-check the information provided by the girl. They have sent blood samples of both the girls to a forensic lab in Kharar. 
 
 
