CHENNAI:   strongman and former Union finance and home minister P   has rushed to the Madras high court against the revival of assessment of   returns filed by him and his family members six years ago and seeking to quash the department’s demand notices and the reassessment.

 Justice Rajiv Shakder before whom the petitions of Chidambaram and his family members came up for hearing on Wednesday, concurred with the submissions of senior counsel Vijay Narayan, who represented them, and stayed the demand notices. 
 
 Posting the matter to March 16 for further proceedings, the judge said: “Pending the adjudication of the writ petition, further proceedings pursuant to the demand are stayed.”
 
 The issue relates to a family-held 200-acre coffee estate in Coorg, which was inherited by Chidambaram from his grandfather Raja Annamalai Chettiar in 1956, when Chidambaram was aged barely 11 years. The estate has since been partitioned and divided into five units of 40 acres each, in the name of Chidambaram, his wife Nalini Chidamabram, son Karti Chidambaram, daughter-in-law Srinidhi and granddaughter.
 
 All along it had been shown as generating agricultural income for the stake-holders, and hence it had been exempted from income tax since then. It was disclosed as agricultural income in the income tax returns of each member for the assessment year 2009-10 as well. 
 
 Six years later, on March 31, 2016, an assistant commissioner of income tax issued individual notices saying the income had escape assessment by authorities, and asked them to file the returns afresh.
 
 Assailing the notices, they sent reply, submitted objections and then fresh returns as well. Not convinced with that, the officer slapped demand notices on each of the five family members directing them to pay up taxes of over Rs 5 lakh each.
 
 These writ petitions challenged the demand notices saying they sold coffee grown in their estates as raw coffee, after pulping and drying the raw coffee. They said they did do curing of the coffee, but pulping and curing was necessary to prevent deterioration before the sale of coffee to curing houses.
 
 Under Rule 7B(1) of Income Tax Rules, income derived from the sale of coffee grown and cured by sellers in India shall be computed as if it were income derived from business and 25% of such income shall be deemed to be income liable for tax, said the petitions, adding the family members did not cure the coffee before sale, so Rule 7B(1) was not attracted. Therefore, Chidambaram and his family members claimed exemption of the entire income derived from the sale of coffee and pepper during the accounting year 2008-09 as agricultural income under Section 10(1) of the Income Tax Act, in the returns filed for assessment year 2009-10.
 
 The March 31, 2016 notices under Section 148 of Income Tax Act was issued by an assistant commissioner of income tax in Chennai, stating that he had reason to believe that income chargeable to tax for assessment year 2009-10 had “escaped the assessment” within the meaning of Section 147 of the IT Act. The notices stated that the authorities proposed to reassess the income for 2009-10 and asked the petitioners to file fresh returns.
 
 Among several thousand such income tax returns filed by other similarly placed estate owners, the particular family had been singled by out by authorities, that too six years after the returns had been filed, said Vijay Narayan.
 
 In their petitions, the Chidambarams said the IT notices did not allege that they had failed to disclose fully and truly all material facts necessary for assessment. On April 13, 2016, they wrote letters stating that returns of income filed were correct in all respects and there was no escape of income. 
 
 In May, they filed fresh returns for the assessment disclosing the same income, claiming exemption for their agricultural income. There were several rounds of communication between the department and the family. However, instead of disposing of objection raised by them the authorities passed a reassessment order dated December 30 and issued the consequential demand notices dated December 30, argued Vijay Narayan.
 
 The assistant commissioner is not justified in passing the reassessment order which is illegal and unsustainable in law, he said, adding that the reassessment notices were barred by limitation and passed without affording reasonable opportunity to the family.
 
 Vijay Narayan further said that as per the Supreme Court rulings, the assessment officer had to furnish reasons for reopening the assessments. He is also bound to dispose of objections by a reasoned order before proceeding with the reassessment. However, in the present case, the family’s objections had not been considered at all before the reassessment, the counsel said.
 
 
