The   (MCA) stadium in Gahunje was packed to capacity, hosting two Indian Premier League (IPL) matches this month, one last Thursday and the other, this Wednesday. Naturally, there was tight security all around. Despite that, scores of   were stolen from   who had gone to watch the matches on these two days, and the Talegaon Dabhade police station was flooded with complaints.

 According to those who visited the police station to complain, there were easily 80-odd people who could have lost their cellphones. For Sunil Seth, his phone was stolen right at the entrance.
 
 As soon as he entered the stadium after standing in the ticket counter line, he realised that his phone had been stolen. “I walked back the entire route, but could not find it. I inquired with police constables who were stationed all around, but they did not help much, telling me to lodge a complaint at the Dehu Road police station instead,” Seth told Pune Mirror.
 
 Apart from Seth, Mirror got in touch with two other complainants, Akshay Nalawade and Omkar Chalekar, who had the same story to share. Chalekar realised that his phone was stolen when he went to buy water during the break. He later visited the Talegaon Dabhade police station, where he was asked to register a complaint of the phone being lost rather than stolen, he rued. Nalawade also realised mid-match that his phone had been nicked.
 
 Seth, who spoke to Mirror at length, said, “Later, after the match, I visited the Dehu Road police station to lodge a complaint and was asked to get an affidavit before they took the complaint. The following day, when I visited the police station with an affidavit, I was told to go to the Talegaon Dabhade police station as the stadium fell under their jurisdiction.” Once there, he realised that there were many others who had lost their phones, too.
 
 Inspector Mugut Patil, who is investigating the case, conceded, “While I cannot give you an accurate number of how many mobile phones have been stolen, I can assure you that we are looking into the matter. We believe that most of the thefts happened during the break, when the lights had gone off in the bathroom. The robbers could have taken advantage of the darkness.” All the numbers have been put up for tracking, with the cops hoping that the accused are nabbed at the earliest.
 
 On the surface, these complaints might seem trivial as they revolve round cellphones being stolen, something that happens across the city all the time. But, the only difference is that these robberies have taken place in a tight-security area. To the safety concerns that these complaints raise, Patil said that there is little that can actually be done. “The accused are going to take advantage of the fact that it is a crowded space. Other than increasing security, which we are currently deliberating upon, and continuously making announcements that people must take care of their belongings, there is not much that we can do. While people entering the stadium are thoroughly frisked, it is difficult to check people on their way out. Everyone has to take care of their own belongings, especially in crowded places like a packed stadium where the risk of such crimes is high,” he stressed.
 
