New Delhi: Two days after a nine-year-old   was found tortured and   near his house in southeast Delhi’s Pul Prahladpur, family members said he had gone missing twice before and was found from two different railway stations. The police are yet to rule out the possibility of the boy having been   before the murder. 

 “A security guard at the parking area where my son was found lying alerted the police. When the police reached the spot, one of the locals recognised my son and told cops where he lived. I was alone at home when they came and took me to hospital. Nobody told me that my son was dead until I guessed it myself. Almost 12 hours later, they showed me his body,” said the wailing mother. 
 
 However, this was not the first time that the boy had gone missing. “He first went missing a year ago. All of us frantically searched for him everywhere. That evening, one of our relatives found him wandering at Old Faridabad station and got him back home,” said the boy’s father. 
 
 He went missing again recently. “The second time, he was found at Nizamuddin station. Both times, he told me that a man working at a shop near our house had lured him away. After the second incident, I slapped the worker twice and suspect that he has murdered my son to take revenge,” the father added. 
 
 The boy, who lived with his parents and elder sister at a rented house, had dropped out of school last November as teachers often complained about his habit of bunking classes daily. “Since then we made him stay at home. This way we wanted to make him realise the importance of education. I had thought of enrolling him in a school again in the coming months, but that was not to be,” the father rued.
 
 Recalling the fateful day, the mother said her son had asked her to cook chicken for dinner, a meal that he could never have. “He went out around 2pm. His father was not at home, so I assumed he would come late only. But when cops came in, I got scared,” she said. 
 
 The police are yet to receive the postmortem report. “The probable cause of death was a puncture wound on the neck,” said Romil Baniya, deputy commissioner of police (southeast).
 
