SURAT: Riots erupted in Godadara locality of Limbayat area of the city after a partially decomposed head of a calf was recovered from a road here on Monday morning. Residents and members of some groups held a dharna alleging it to be an attempt to hurt their sentiments before resorting to stone pelting which inflamed tension in the area.

 The members of the crowd refused to allow police to take the calf 's head to police station for further in vestigation and tried to escape with it to   crossroads. They wanted to take it to district collectorate and when the police tried to stop them, they began to throw stones at a shop and also damaged the materials kept inside it. The rioters later torched a butcher shop in a makeshift shed and damaged its materials. The crowd damaged two shops in the area and indulged in arson, as businessmen downed shutters following the clash, said police inspector of   station, K G Limbachiya.
 
 Police booked 43 people for rioting and detained 41 of them from Limbayat. Police are investigating the role of those involved in rioting and their instigators.Six people, including five policemen and a photographer, suffered injuries in rioting. Police lobbed 69 teargas shells and also resorted to lathicharge. Additional two companies of SRP have been deployed in the area to step up patrolling.
 
 “The injured were given treatment in hospital and 41 people were detained from the spot. Police are investigating the entire incident and attempts are being made to identify how the disturbances started.Police want to assure the residents that we will take timely action as far as enforcement of law relating to cow slaughter is concerned. People should not try to create disturbance over this. Those found trying to disturb the law and order situation in the city, will face stern action,“ city police commissioner   said.
 
 “We traced a cattle breeder in Limbayat who confirmed to us that the calf had died a couple of days ago after it ate some plastic or harmful material. He mentioned to us that the carcass was lying in bushes and being eaten by dogs on Sunday,“ Sharma said.
 
 Minister of state for home Pradipsinh Jadeja said: “I appeal to people not to pay attention to rumours and indulge in activities that could affect peace in the area. Action will be taken against anti-social elements.“
 
