BENGALURU: One of the successful and much talked-about   last year was ‘U-Turn’. The film’s plot revolved around a real, but unofficial, U-turn on a city’s flyover. Now, what would you call a ‘U-turn’ in Kannada?

 The government is in the process of implementing a suggestion by the   (KDA) that makes it compulsory for Kannada films to have titles in Kannada. The government plans to link it to the subsidy and other benefits it provides to Kannada and other films in Karnataka’s languages. Though film-makers say it is a welcome move, they also caution against restricting creative liberty.
 
 A total of 51 Kannada films have released in 2017, so far. Out of them nine — ‘Rush’, ‘Smile Please’, ‘Tonic’, ‘Bengaluru Underworld’, ‘Beautiful Manasugalu’, ‘Real Police’, ‘Rogue’, ‘Engineers’ and ‘Part 2’ — had English (or partly English) titles.
 
 Prof SG Siddaramaiah, KDA Chairperson, which made the recommendation to the government, said: “It is indeed a disturbing trend in Kannada cinema. Kannada, which has a rich literary history dating back to thousands of years, has no dearth of titles. Yet, the decision to choose titles in either English or Hindi is nothing but disturbing. It leaves a bad impression on youngsters and they may permanently forget some of the Kannada words. It may appear to be a small thing, but culturally and linguistically, it has far-reaching impact on the mindset. Hence, from the KDA, we have written to CM and Kannada Chalanachitra Academy to withdraw all tax benefits, subsidies if the cinemas have other language titles. In fact, we have advised not to consider such movies for awards either.”
 
 Film-makers say the government’s decision is welcome but it may be a double-edged sword. Producer-director B Suresha, said: “Take the example of ‘U-Turn’. It is an imagery. Only urban people can understand it. What will you call it in Kannada? Tirugu Jaga? Whatever you name it in Kannada, it is unlikely to suit it. There is a story by UR Anantha Murthy called ‘Clip Joint’. What do I call it if I want to make a film out of it?”
 
 FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION
 
 Director Pawan Kumar, who has made films named ‘U-Turn’ and ‘Lucia’, says it a curb on the freedom of expression. “Malayalam cinema wants to attract audience across the world. So you can see their films being named in English like ‘Celluloid’ and ‘Memories’. If you want to keep up with today’s youth, you have to use the words they use. That is how you connect with them. Such restrictions curb our freedom of expression. Even with ‘Lucia’, people abroad would ask if it was a Kannada film. The film reaches new people with the title and along with it, the Kannada language too reaches new people. This is one more restriction we are imposing on ourselves,” he said.
 
 Director Preetham Gubbi has no doubt that it is a curb on creativity. “What you are trying to do is confine Kannada films to a particular boundary. We are making Kannada films after all,” he said. Director Yogaraj Bhat says the argument on both sides is valid. He said: “This is something you can argue strongly on both the sides.
 
 First of all, what would you call as a Kannada word? Only the ones that are in the dictionary or also those that people use on the streets? Over the centuries, thousands of words from other languages have been assimilated into Kannada. Language is like a stomach that digests all kinds of food. At the same time, we also notice
 indiscriminate use of non-Kannada words in some cases, even when they are not necessary. The rule will help Kannada films retain its identity.”
 
 TAMIL NADU’s POLICY
 
 Neighbouring Tamil Nadu has a similar policy for Tamil films. The nearly 10-year-old policy there exempts films with Tamil titles from entertainment tax. So many film-makers go out of the way to name their films in Tamil. The most famous example was of Rajinikanth’s ‘Enthiran’. The film was originally named ‘Robot’, but was forced to come up with a Tamil name.
 
 Suresh said: “It is an idealistic stand of the government [to have Kannada names for films]. At least something good will happen. Film-makers may say, ‘Okay, let us try to say it in Kannada’. Director Preetham Gubbi has named some of his films in Hindi [‘Johny Mera Naam Preethi Mera Kaam’, ‘Jaanu’, ‘Dil Rangeela’). He may be right if he says it is his wish. But with a law linked to incentives, most people may think of Kannada titles.”
 
 In the end, Sandalwood film-makers feel a law will compel many to follow it. Suresh said: “Any law will not be completely right or completely wrong. The situation in which you face it may make you think it is either good or bad. Any such rule at the end of day should be to stop the thief. But not everyone is a thief.”
 
 Director Preetham Gubbi has named his next film ‘Johnny Johnny Yes Papa’. “The maximum complaints are against me, I guess. I will consult the dictionary and find Kannada titles, henceforth. I don’t want to go against the system and will change the way of titling my films,” he said.
 
