CHENNAI: It’s been a stormy three months for the   and a year of upheaval for the   since the swearing-in of   as chief minister of Tamil Nadu on May 23, 2016.

 Jayalalalithaa’s death on December 5 and the conviction of her aide V K Sasikala in the assets case put the party through further turmoil.
 
 For the time being, Palaniswami seems to be sailing on a deceptively calm sea. His cabinet has fallen in line, his government appears to be on a slow but steady track and he has kept at bay — at least for now — a formidable opposition and rival group led byO Panneerselvam. By sailing with the Centre, on GST or NEET,   has won temporary reprieve. But the road ahead could be bumpy for the mild-mannered man whose advisors include a bunch of ministers and even Prime Minister Narendra Modi.
 
 Ensuring corruption-free, efficient governance and filling the coffers to continue populist measures could his biggest challenge yet. On Monday, a pressure group of eight MLAs emer-ged. They met the CM to demand more transparency in his functioning. It would be a historic win for Palaniswami if he wrests control of the AIADMK and wins the two-leaves symbol, now frozen by the Election Commission.
 
 This could establish him as the sole leader of the AIADMK and permit him to dictate terms to Sasikala and her family members and even to the Modi dispensation. 
 
 But before that there are huge administrative challenges. Tamil Nadu has to pass a state GST bill — something 12 other states have done so far. Only if the bill is passed can the state can replace VAT and other taxes that GST will subsume. The Centre and other states are ready to introduce the new tax regime.
 
 On another front, the EPS government is troubled byanti-liquor protests that are spreading across the state.
 
 The government has been silent on the revenue loss due to the Supreme Court order directing closure of liquor shops on highways. Caught in the storm of anti-liquor protests, the government has not unveiled a new policy to shore up revenue.
 
 “One major challenge I visualise is the collection of tax revenue,” said Madras University econometrist R Srinivasan. “The closing down of so many liquor shops will have a major impact on tax revenue. When the economy is slowing down and there is no new policy initiative, sales tax and stamp duty will decline. There will be a huge fall in revenue collection and a huge increase in expenditure. The government must also find resources to mitigate drought.”
 
