Environmentalist and member of the Supreme Court-appointed Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority, 
 , insists that   is not a way of life. The scheme is a stringent measure which may be taken under emergency situation to check air pollution but the EPCA should work not to allow such situations to arise, she says. In an   to
 , she said the authority should work with state governments to take other measures on a regular basis so that air pollution does not get out of hand in the first place. Excerpts: 

  
 We have called a meeting on Friday with member secretary of the   and environment secretaries of states to discuss implementation and rollout of the plan. We have also written to chief secretaries of Delhi, Haryana and UP, seeking time on January 23, 24 or 25 and asking them to call a meeting of their officers so that we can discuss item by item what is the graded plan and what is needed to enforce it and implement it. On Friday, we will also discuss with the CPCB how they will tell us on a daily basis about the level of pollution and what additional actions are required to be taken.
 
  
 If you look at the plan and the way it is designed, most of the actions are required in the category of poor situation. So, we will tell the states that all those actions must be taken in any case on regular basis as required under ‘moderate to poor’ category situation. We have a whole list of such actions. So, our first task will be to tell these people to make sure that this is done. Then, we will come to the next phase when the CPCB tells us when the pollution level moves from moderate/poor to very poor level category when we have to stop use of diesel generator sets and enhance parking fee by 3 to 4 times and we have to stop the use of coal/firewood in hotels and open eateries. We will see how it is done without affecting essential services like hospitals. This is how we’ll drive the action.
 
  
 No no, absolutely not. Why should it be? Even initially, we told the Delhi government that odd-even is not a way of life. It’s an emergency act. It’s a very stringent action. So, our efforts will be that we do not get into emergency category at all. People should also understand that such action will only be taken during emergency situation and that too if the situation persists for 48 hours. 
 
  
 Idea of the graded plan is if you can enforce action that are required for the ‘moderate to poor’ category level on regular basis, then you don’t get to the ‘very poor’ category. And, if you do what is needed to be done under ‘very poor’ or under ‘severe’ category, then you don’t fall in an ‘emergency’ category.
 
 
