LUCKNOW: To overcome shortage of teachers in government medical colleges, the state medical education department has proposed raising retirement age of teachers in state medical colleges from 65 to 70. 

 Additional chief secretary medical education Anita Bhatnagar Jain said officials concerned have been instructed to prepare a formal proposal for state cabinet’s approval. When asked to comment on the decision’s impact, she said, “It will help in checking the constant fall in number of teachers which puts the quality of teaching at stake.” 
 
 State medical colleges in UP face about 25% shortfall of medical teachers across various levels. Depending on the rank, medical college/institution and its antiquity, it can go up to 50%. The shortfall invites the ire of the   which often threatens to cancel the recognition of UP Colleges.
 
 Sources in medical education directorate said the proposal would be placed before the cabinet in a few weeks. They also revealed that the idea had already been cleared by chief minister   during the presentation made by the department. 
 
 The decision would immediately affect teachers in SN Medical College, Agra; GSVM Medical College, Kanpur; Moti Lal Nehru Medical College, Allahabad; Lala Lajpat Rai Medical College, Meerut; Maharani Lakshmi Bai Medical College, Jhansi and Baba Raghav Das Medical College, Gorakhpur.
 
 It will also impact teachers in newly established state medical colleges in Ambedkarnagar, Kannauj, Jalaun and Azamgarh. Teachers in institutes like King George’s Medical University, Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences, Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences will also benefit.
 
 The MCI, incidentally, has already advocated that the retirement age of medical teachers should be raised to 70 years. MCI authorities say that in the 398 medical colleges across the country, there are more than 52,000 MBBS seats and to maintain the teacher-student ratio, state governments often increase the retirement age within the prescribed limit. 
 
 Medical education experts said, “Shortage of professors limits opportunity for post graduate medical education which takes a toll on specialisation and the number of specialists remains low,” said Dr D P Mishra, former head of UP government doctors' association.
 
 However, different states have different retirement age for their teachers. While teacher surplus Tamil Nadu retires its staff at 58, deficit in Bihar, Bengal and Maharashtra made the authorities retire medical teachers at 67, 65 and 64 years respectively. In Punjab, medical teachers retire at 62 years. 
 
