KOLKATA: Chief minister   took care to oil the panchayat machinery to ensure the efforts bear fruits in the panchayat polls in 2018. 

 Unlike the Modi government, which is spending on digital network to make the system faceless, Mamata chalked out expenditure for people, who run the panchayat machinery at all the three tiers — gram panchayat, panchayat samiti and zilla parishad — hoping the enthused human resource at the grassroots would help her build a solid foundation for the Lok Sabha race in 2019 as well.
 
 Inaugurating the first government-level panchayat meet before the Assembly budget session on Friday, the chief minister announced a largesse for the 68,000 panchayat functionaries, entailing an additional liability of nearly Rs 1 crore a month. Add to this, the panchayat workers engaged on contract. They will enjoy the medical benefits under Swasthya Sathi Scheme from March. Mamata fished the funds out of the 2016-17 Budget to foot the bills, hoping the sustenance money to functionaries—from panchayat members to zilla sabhadhipati—will give her the moral authority to enforce accountability and cleanse the system of corruption she is aware of: “Work properly or you won’t get anything.” This immediate sops are likely to energise the delivery mechanism that has developed factional cogs in the wheel.
 
 “The   was in power for 35 years and I cannot understand what they did. These people (panchayat functionaries) work without money. Sudhu churi churi kore chechale hobe? Churi korbe na to ki korbe (Shouting that they are stealing will not satisfy the purpose. What else will they do)?” she said. But she cautioned the members to control their greed. “Lobh sambaran korun. Lobh na sambaran korle panch bochor ar sammaner hole sara jibon (Control greed, else only five years. If you earn respect, that will be forever),” she said.
 
 The CM also pointed out how her government had steadily been increasing allocation on building assets through capital expenditure. “Allocations have grown five times compared to that during the Left rule. Capital expenditure during the CPM regime in 2010-11 was Rs 2,000 crore. We have increased it to Rs 10,625 crore in 2016-17,” Mamata said. 
 
 She didn’t miss the opportunity to take a dig at the Centre over the release of funds. “We want the Centre to give us our dues instead of sending sermons. There’s no point setting targets of building one crore houses. We have done more than that,” the CM said.
 
 
