MOHALI:   needed to win their last three games to stay in contention for a place in the play-offs before their game against   in Mohali on Tuesday. Their 14-run win over the two-time champions, which saw them defend 168 and overcome a hectic start from   and Chris Lynn enabled them to dream on.

 That dream will gain further momentum if they can get past Mumbai Indians at the Wankhede on Thursday and Kings skipper  , who was let off by Mumbai Indians after paying over a million dollars for him in the 2013 auctions but not making much use of him, could have a point or two to prove.
 
 For the Knights, it could be yet another season where a top-two berth could be so close yet so far.
 
 Lynn could have been the hero for KKR, but his brilliant 84 went in vain as the hosts produced a clinical bowling and fielding performance under pressure and keep themselves afloat in the tournament.
 
 The start though was not very auspicious for the hosts as Kings could put up just 167 for 6 after being put into bat, but they defended the total courtesy a remarkable show by their bowlers at the PCA Stadium. The home side restricted KKR to 153 for 6.
 
 KKR, who have already booked a play-offs berth, also remained at second spot with 16 points from 13 matches and their game against Mumbai Indians at the Eden Gardens on Saturday assumes massive significance if they are to target a top-two berth.
 
 The pick of the KXIP bowlers was Rahul Tewatia who took 2 wickets for 18 runs from his four overs apart from contributing an entertaining 15 with the bat.   then bowled some beautiful slower balls and knuckle balls to strangle the visitors who were looking for big hits. Mohit conceded 24 from three overs but picked up two wickets. Sandeep Sharma did not take a wicket but conceded just 31 runs from his four overs.
 
 Lynn kept finding the boundary but did not find adequate support to take the team home and he fell run out. Kings, who had a put up a calamitous fielding performance against Gujarat Lions which stopped them from defending 190-plus, were far more energetic in the field on Tuesday.
 
 Talking of being energetic, Max well was energetic too as he struck a quickfire 25-ball 44 to help Kings scored 167 for 6 after being put into bat.
 
 They made a wobbly start but made a late recovery to put up a respectable total on a pitch that showed signs of slowing down as the slower balls started grip ping the surface as the match wore on.
 
 From 63 for 3 at the halfway mark, Kings XI took 104 runs from the final 10 overs.
 
 The hosts lost wickets at regular intervals as they failed to stitch any big partnership. Their highest partnership was the 61for the fourth wicket between Maxwell and Wriddhiman Saha (38).
 
 Maxwell, Saha and Manan Vohra (25) got the starts but could not convert them to big scores. But as it turned out, they just about got enough. 
 
