COIMBATORE: Of the 82 teachers recruited by   in November 2016, 47 joined the day they received their appointment orders.

 The 82 candidates received appointment orders at 5pm on November 22 and TOIhas a list of dates when they joined. “It is impossible to join immediately on receiving the appointment orders,“ said a   department official.
 
 The university gives a candidate up to three months to join after issuing order. “It takes 5-15 days. One has to go back to the institution he has been working with and apply for a relieving order that has to be cleared by the management (in case of private colleges) or the university syndicate (in case of government and aided colleges and university),“ said aformer professor.
 
 According to the list with TOI, almost 60 teachers joined between 5pm on November 22 and November 25. J Vijayakumar, an associate professor of electronics and instrumentation who joined on November 22 evening, said, “I joined the same evening but submitted the relieving order on November 23. In fact, I was informed about my appointment prior to the syndicate meeting itself.“ T Selvaraju, associate professor in chemistry who joined that day , refused to comment.
 
 As the recruitment was on, the university decided that the syndicate meeting to ratify appointments would be on November 20. But a higher educa tion department communique asked the   to stall appointments. “The decision was taken after media reports alleged corruption and irregularities in the appointment,“ said a department official. 
 
 Vice-chancellor   then met officials in Chennai. “Despite receiving instructions not to go ahead with the appointments, Ganapathi conducted the syndicate meeting on November 22,“ said the official.
 
 A department inquiry found that Ganapathi forced all syndicate members to switch off mobile phones during the November 22 meeting.A member, on condition of anonymity , said, “The meeting commenced at 3pm. The VC read out a notice that said appointments have to be made without any delay as directed by the higher education department. He then instructed the registrar-in-charge   to issue orders.“
 
