NOIDA: Residents from 28 societies in   came together to celebrate Udayan (the rising sun).

 The festival which was held in the community centre of Sector 82 saw performances from artists of Kolkata. The festivities also included music and dance performances by kids from various societies. 
 
 The women showed off their culinary skills through favoured dishes on Panchami and welcomed Goddess Durga on Maha Shashti by singing Agomoni followed by retro music.
 
 “In mere 47 days, we touched base with 28 societies across   and got representations from Eldeco Utopia, Parsvnath Prestige, ATS Village, Grand Omaxe, ATS One Hamlet, Supertech, Paramount Floraville, Gulshan Vivante, Royal Park, Silver city, to name a few. We already have over 110 registered members within Udayan so far, and we plan to cover all the Expressway societies next year,” said Sudip De, sponsorship secretary, Udayan Bengali Cultural Association, Sector 82, Noida Expressway.
 
 Team Udayan is also planning to perform Kali Puja in October. “We at Udayan, wish everyone a wonderful period of festivities by spreading the message of peace, togetherness and non violence,” said De.
 
 Similarly, 10 societies from sectors 74-78 in Noida organised Ahoban Durga Puja celebrations in Sector 76. The societies participating in the puja included Civitech Sampriti, Elite Homz, JM Orchid, Aditya Celebrity Homes, Griha Pravesh, and others.
 
 The ‘Aahoban Supertech Capetown Bengali Association’ took the lead in organising their first Durga Puja.
 
 Inaugurated by MLA Pankaj Singh, the celebrations started from September 25 that saw cultural performances by residents. The Durga Puja had a theme of ‘Utsaver Raja Durga Puja’ (Puja-the king of all festivals). Aahoban also came up with a theme song that played throughout the festivities.
 
 Celebrity singers from Kolkata, including Madhubanti Bagchi, Ankon Dutta, Satish and Shiyuli also performed from September 27 to September 29.
 
 The Durga Puja association published a booklet of good morning teasers and it’s digital version was posted on Facebook and WhatsApp for 66 days. The booklet is now being treasured for spectators as a memorabilia.
 
 Meanwhile, a charitable trust of Amrapali Silicon City organised their second Durga Puja festival inside the premises of the society. Titled as ‘Aikyatan 76’, the festivities included cultural programs, including music soirees and dance performances by residents. Magician S Lal and his troupe showcased their acts and ‘Sursaptak’, a musical group performed on Navami. Food stalls added to the gastronomic desires of the residents.
 
 
