HYDERABAD: From fixing an electrical appliance to  , startups today are offering a number of services at your doorstep and successfully making inroads into the local services market in  . In Hyderabad, their preferred choice of destination is the city's IT corridor.

 The mass migration of young professionals, who are accustomed to using technology-driven platforms for their daily needs, is what has spurred the growth of companies working in this sector, said startup founders. According to startup tracking platform Tracxn, the total investment in the local services sector in Hyderabad is expected to touch the $2 million mark in 2017.
 
 “Our primary customer base is the large pool of urban migrant population that has flocked to Hyderabad. The presence of big software companies has brought to Hyderabad a horde of young professionals who may not know all the local service providers, like they did in their home towns,“ explained Venky Seshadri, CEO and co-founder of Flatpebble, an online portal, where clients can post their requirement and receive quotes in order to hire a photographer for events.
 
 Saran  , CEO of Housejoy, a Bangalore-based startup that offers an online portal and a mobile app for customers to discover and book home services around them, reported a 10 per cent month-on-month increase in the demand for their services.
 
 “The demand for platforms that connect people with local services in Hyderabad has been growing consistently, since we expanded to the city in 2015. Our clients are mostly working professionals who fall within the age group of 25 to 40 years, who find these online portals more convenient and hassle-free,“ said Chatterjee, who added that air conditioner servicing and repairing are two of the most in-demand services in Hyderabad, presently. Apart from working professionals, startups working in this sector are also finding customers among the large number of hotels and IT parks mushrooming along areas such as   and  .
 
 “We offer nearly 25 services, ranging from car pentry to interior designing.Apart from providing services to individual customers, we also undertake projects with IT parks and have established annual maintenance contracts with several hotels in the Hi-Tec City region,“ said K V S Prakash, founder and CEO of Click2Fix, a startup.
 
