NOIDA: The Delhi-Noida carriageway of the  , linking the crucial Mahamaya-Kalindi Kunj route, is likely to remain closed at night for one-and-a-half months, as the UP irrigation department will   the gates of the barrage, which are almost 40-years-old.

 The Gautam Budh Nagar irrigation department has sought permission from the Uttar Pradesh department of environment and forest and traffic departments of Gautam Budh Nagar and Delhi, to start work of changing the gates between 10pm and 6am, from September 22 to November 6.
 
 Keeping in mind the traffic inflow from Delhi, the UP irrigation department has sought permission to close the carriageway during night-time for the construction work. 
 
 While the irrigation department is yet to receive the permission in writing, officials said they are expecting it within a couple of days.
 
 “We’ve got verbal assurance from the traffic police departments of both Gautam Budh Nagar and Delhi, that they will give us permission. The UP department of environment and forest has been consulted, as the Okhla Bird Sanctuary expects migratory birds from November. Hence, we’ll try to complete work before November. We’re expecting a written permission from all three departments within two days,” a senior official in the UP irrigation department told TOI.
 
 The official said it’s very important to change the gates to avoid any untoward incident, adding the situation could go out of control if the gates are not changed soon.
 
 While the GB Nagar traffic police is yet to officially give its nod for the proposed diversion, officials said it should be granted soon. “We’re waiting for the go-ahead from the Delhi traffic police, as it’s traffic from their side that will be affected by the work. If they give the permission in writing, we’ll follow suit,” said SP (traffic) Anil Jha.
 
 They said when work begins, they will divert traffic coming from Delhi to DND and the Chilla border. “Although traffic pressure on the route is low at night, many heavy vehicles use the stretch to commute from Delhi to Noida-Ghaziabad. We’ll divert them to DND and Chilla border when work begins,” traffic inspector Layak Singh told TOI.
 
 Delhi traffic police said it’s working on a traffic plan with their GB Nagar counterparts for the scheduled work period, adding they also requested the UP irrigation department to start work after September 30, to allow for Durga Puja immersions in the Yamuna.
 
 In response, the irrigation department said it will go ahead with the announced schedule. “We’ll halt work two days before September 30, so that immersions are not hampered,” said a senior official. 
 
 
