NAGPUR: Controversies and the various leagues conducted by   ( ) go hand in hand. The latest, of the never-ending series, resulted during last Sunday’s Elite Division match between   ( ) and   ( ).

 On the next day of the match, which was delayed by 10-15 minutes, NFC lodged a protest against referee Mohd Kalim’s decision to reduce the match to 80-minute affair. NFC also accused Kalim, city’s only referee to have officiated at the international level, of bias against them.
 
 On Sunday, the venue of the match — Motibag Stadium — was filled to the capacity. With no place available in the stands, YMFC supporters entered the ground and crowded the sidelines to watch its team in action.
 
 Going by previous incidents of unruly crowd behavior, the match officials urged the fans to go off the ground. Later, the officials ruled that the match won’t start unless the spectators go back to the stands.
 
 Still, the spectators refused to budge. After a lot of drama over 10-15 minutes, the officials decided to go ahead with the match. They also decided to reduce the playing time by 10 minutes.
 
 The decision didn’t go down well with the NFC camp. “There was no need to delay the start if the match had to be played with the public still on the ground. If it was delayed, the playing time shouldn’t have been reduced. In crucial matches even a minute can make a lot of difference,” Bimal Ghosh, coach, NFC, said.
 
 As the match progressed, the resentment grew further as the Kamptee-based team felt that at least three decisions of Kalim went against them in the 1-0 loss. They also accused the referee of not allotting a penalty in their favour for a clear foul committed by YMFC in the 18th minute of the match.
 
 NFC also claimed that Kalim appeared apprehensive of flashing the cards to rival players in front of the approximately thousand YMFC supporters who thronged the boundary of the play area.
 
 “This is not the first time that we have suffered due to Kalim’s bias. He did the same thing in our matches against YMFC in previous two seasons. So, we decided to bring it to the notice of the association and requested them to not allot him our matches in future,” Ghosh added.
 
 NDFA president, Haresh Vora, assured that ‘suitable action’ will be taken over NFC’s complaint. “I feel that the referee should have conducted 90-minute match during the crucial Super-6 stage of the tournament. Considering the grave charges, we will take suitable action,” Vora said.
 
 But there are many who sympathize with Kalim. A NDFA official, who wished not to named, said that Kalim is being made a scapegoat. “I have learnt that Kalim took the decision reducing play-time after consultation with NDFA secretary and also both the captains.
 
 “We have seen what happened with referee Christopher Peter around two month back. Peter was lucky to escape unhurt from the angry Nagpur Academy Football Club (NAFC) supporters. The association hardly does anything to ensure the safety of the referees,” the source added.
 
 
