NEW DELHI: The   asked Maharashtra government on Thursday to respond within four weeks to a petition by bargirls challenging the constitutionality of a 2016 state law that virtually banned dance performances in bars, restaurants and hotels.

 A bench of Justices Dipak Misra and R F Nariman issued notice to Maharashtra government on the petition filed by ' ' and asked the state's counsel Nishant Katneshwarkar to file its response within four weeks. It posted further hearing on the petition for April 20.
 
 The association had moved the court last week finding that the state government had enacted a new law - "Prohibition of Obscene Dances in Hotels, Restaurants and Bar Rooms and Protection of Dignity of Women (working there in) Act, 2016" - to completely prohibit dance performances in these establishments to step around apex court's earlier decision frowning at complete ban on such performances.
 
 SC had said that the state was within its right to prohibit obscenity in dance performances and had provided safety mechanisms while allowing dance performances in bars and restaurants. The association of bargirls said that the new law deliberately kept the definition of 'obscene dances' vague to enable law enforcing agencies target and harass bar dancers thus achieving the political goal of imposing complete ban on such performances.
 
 The petitioner said the new law unreasonably interferes in the right to free choice of expression through dramatic performances and the right of women to practice occupation of self-expression through such dramatic performances.
 
 The bargirls association said the law stigmatises the work of dance performances in bars, hotels and restaurants by assuming that all performances were obscene. It said most of the dance performances at these establishments were a copy of the choreography of Bollywood songs, which have been cleared for screening in theatres by censor board.
 
 The petitioner also questioned the provision of law banning tipping by customers and argued that it had been intrinsic to Indian dance performance culture that patrons customarily gave token money as an expression of their appreciation of a performance.
 
 
