NEW DELHI: On April 29, when a gangster, his businessman friend and his personal security officer, a   assistant sub-inspector, were shot dead in Mianwali Nagar in west Delhi, the cops had little to go on in their investigation except the enmity between the dead gangster and the man whose cousin he had married. The   has now identified the sharpshooters involved and raids are on to arrest them.

 Rajesh Rajje, one of Haryana’s most wanted gangsters, and his aide Sonu Kejriwal were the key men involved in the gangland slaying, according to police sources. They were hired by Sonu Dariyapur, the prime suspect, to eliminate Monu Dariyapur. Four others indicted for their role in last month’s shooting have been identified as Sumit Paluthra, Parneet Dabas, Sandeep and Praveen Lamba. 
 
 Except for Dabas and Lamba, who were from Delhi, the others are residents of Rohtak. With all of them missing from their houses, the Special Cell is conducting raids in Uttarakhand and  , as well as in Delhi, Haryana, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh.
 
 With none of the accused in police custody yet, the family members of Monu fear for their lives. But the cops have assured them that they are close to cracking the case.
 
 Apparently, Sonu Dariyapur, considered by police as among Delhi's top five criminals, was at loggerheads with Monu since the latter’s marriage to his cousin. To get rid of him, Sonu contacted a set of shooters who had carried out an attack on a jailed gangster named Ramesh Lohar in a Rohtak courtroom in March. Sources in gangs said that Lohar and the brother of Rajje were engaged in a prolonged war in which both sides had lost many men. 
 
 Sonu, who has evaded arrest for a decade now after jumping parole following his arrest in 2007, paid Rajje a big amount for the contract killing. Rajje took along the same set of shooters when he attacked Monu in Mianwali Nagar.
 
 The presence of the shooters and Sonu were captured by a CCTV camera. In the footage, they can be seen handling a bag that police said contained weapons. The cops also said that there was a car which ferried the shooters apart from a getaway vehicle.
 
 Since the time Monu started wooing Sonu’s cousin, he had been on the bad books of Sonu. The couple escaped death in 2006 when Sonu and his associates attacked them.
 
 
