Constable   is no ordinary cop. Always one affected by social causes, especially those concerning children, he recently motivated 40 children of slum-dwellers to go to school.

 To arrange for the uniforms they could have never afforded, Yadav spent money from his own pocket.
 
 Posted in the social media cell in the DIG office of Jhansi, Yadav says it is his passion to help the needy.
 
 Whether it is to escort the destitute and ailing to a hospital, arranging and performing last rites of those who have no one or teaching children of the slums, Yadav is always on the forefront.He says the inspiration for the cause comes from his parents.
 
 In his latest feat, Yadav has helped 40 slum children take admission to a private school. Of these, 28 are girls.He not only groomed the children for months, but also taught them and motivated their parents to send them to school. Before this, these children were seen either gambling or begging on the streets.
 
 According to Yadav, all these children belong to 30-odd nomad families which have been living in tents at the exhibition ground for years. They are mainly engaged in odd jobs with none of them being educated.
 
 “I had been observing them for a long time and thought of helping them out. For this, ensuring that they get an education was the first step,“ says Yadav, who went in his uniform to visit them to convince the parents who were reluctant to send their children to school.
 
 After much perseverance, he was able to convince the parents to send them to school. His efforts did not stop there. He taught the children for months and groomed them so that they felt comfortable enough to study with the other students. Last week, all the children were admitted to Hafiz Siddiqui National School. Motivated by the efforts of the conable, the principal of the school has stable, the principal of the school has waived the tuition fees of all these students. The rest of the expenses were borne by Yadav himself. Along with some of his fellow policemen, Yadav visits the homes of these children every morning just to ensure that they are regularly going to the school and not bunking classes.
 
 Yadav uses social media very effectively to attract volunteers for his work through an NGO. Till date, he has received Rs 67,000 as aid from good Samaritans from the city itself. He uses the funds for the uplift of the poor and keeps accounts of the donation he gets.
 
 For his good deeds, Jitendra was felicitated a few months ago by former DGP Javeed Ahmad. He recognised his efforts by presenting him a certificate of appreciation.
 
 Former DIG Jhansi range   says, “It is good that he is involved in such noble social work. I appreciate it till it does not hamper his original work for which he is appointed by the government.“
 
