KOZHIKODE: The   has decided to crack the whip on college teachers who have been refusing to undertake   of answer sheets.

 The valuation of answer sheets of second and fourth semester degree examinations at Calicut University has been severely hit with teachers boycotting the valuation camp which started off on Monday. Majority of teachers had abstained from attending the valuation camps being held at around 60 centres.
 
 The syndicate examination standing committee which met on Tuesday to assess the situation has recommended the syndicate to take action against the teachers who failed to take up valuation duty and against the college principals who had not assigned teachers to the valuation camps.
 
 Many teachers are staying away from the valuation camps to protest against the state government's decision to recover Rs 39 crore paid as remuneration to college teachers for valuation of answer sheets over the past few years. The state   had decided to recover the money paid to teachers while paying the third instalment of the UGC pay revision arrears saying that UGC had made evaluation of answer sheets part of duty of college teachers.
 
 “Also we have decided to recommend the syndicate to ask the directorate of collegiate education to take action against the government college teachers who are not cooperating with the valuation process,” P Sivadasan, member of the syndicate examination standing committee said.
 
 He said that many self-financing colleges have been disregarding the repeated directions of the varsity to assign teachers from the institutions to the valuation camps.
 
 “The replies given by some self-financing colleges amount to insulting the varsity as they have cited very flimsy reasons for not assigning teachers to the valuation camps. Many colleges have not cared even to reply to the show cause notices of the varsity. We have recommended the syndicate to take action against them,” Sivadasan added.
 
 The pro Congress   had given the call to boycott the valuation camps. The participation of members of other teacher unions are also significantly less in the valuation camps.
 
 Syndicate members said that any further delays would affect the academics of final semester degree students who are to appear for final examinations in March. The results of fourth and fifth semester examinations should be published before that date to enable the students to appear for improvement and supplementary examinations.
 
 “If the situation persists then the valuation will not be over even after 30 days. We feel that a government intervention is needed to resolve the standoff caused by the decision not to pay remuneration for valuation of answer sheets,” syndicate member K M Nazeer said.
 
