MOTIHARI: Police on Tuesday lodged a   more than three months after the   near   on Raxaul-Darbhanga section on November 2 last year.

 Chhodadano police station SHO Pankaj Kumar lodged the case as informant with Adapur police station against Braj Kishor Giri and Mohammad Mojahir Ansari of Nepal and Motilal Paswan, Gajendra Sharma, Suraj Kumar and Dipu Kumar of   for their alleged involvement in the bomb blast on the rail track at Kudiya iron rail bridge near Nakardei railway station under East Central Railway. 
 
 DSP (Raxaul) Rakesh Kumar said on Wednesday the case was lodged on the direction of NIA ( ) officials probing the rail track sabotage cases near Ghorasahan in East Champaran and Kanpur in Uttar Pradesh. Around 150 people were killed in the Indore-Patna Express derailment near Kanpur late last year. 
 
 Acting SP Suresh Prasad Chaudhary said all the accused were already in jail. 
 
 Police sources said a low-intensity cooker bomb planted on the rail track near Nakardei station on November 2 night exploded after Raxaul-Delhi Sadbhawana Express crossed the station. A rail police team inspected the spot but found nothing like a bomb blast. In its report, the team said crackers might have been used by some marriage party revellers and closed the case. 
 
 “It was only after ISI agent Shamshul Huda was arrested in Kathmandu on January 5 and revealed this information about the Nakardei blast that local and rail police started investigating the case again and arrested Suraj Kumar and Dipu Kumar from Chhodadano recently,” police sources said.
 
 Raxaul DSP said Suraj and Dipu confessed that Motilal had given them a cooker and IED to plant on the rail track near Nakardei to blast Sadbhawana Express. They were paid Rs30,000 for that. Motilal was guiding the five-member team, but the bomb exploded after the train had crossed the point.
 
 Meanwhile, NIA sources said Gajendra Sharma, one of the main accused lodged in Motihari central jail, would be produced before the NIA court in Patna. “He will be taken on remand,” NIA sources said.
 
