GURUGRAM: The Haryana government on Tuesday launched an ambitious campaign for “zero” fatality in road crashes, which will cover 10 districts, including  ,  ,  ,  ,   and   in the first phase.

 This is for the first time any state in India has kicked off such a campaign. As of now, only a few countries such as Sweden and Canada have this vision of no death in any road crash, which they are yet to achieve. 
 
 “The state will take concrete measures to achieve ‘Vision Zero’. Haryana is the first state in India to adopt ‘Vision Zero’ towards traffic deaths, and will hopefully be the first state to bring such deaths to zero,” chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said, while launching the campaign in the presence of top brass from the state police, road owning agencies and municipal bodies, and representatives from the civil society.
 
 According to unpublished data, the number of road crashes and fatalities in Haryana increased last year in comparison to 2015. Last year, 5,024 persons died in road crashes in the state in comparison to 4,879 in the previous year.
 
 The NASSCOM Foundation, NASSCOM and WRI India have partnered with the state government in this campaign. This is for the first time that private entities, particularly from the IT and BPO sectors, have joined hands to make roads safer in Haryana. Three major corporates operating out of Gurgaon — Genpact, Nagarro and Honda — also made a commitment to put their efforts and funds to make this dream a reality.
 
 NASSCOM will bear the expenses for the campaign, which will include deputing full-time associates across the 10 districts to interact with people, investigate the major road crashes and give the feedback to the government agencies. WRI will provide technical assistance and Haryana government will implement the changes on the ground to make roads safer. 
 
 “We will be working closely with these groups to ensure that we constantly reduce traffic deaths in Haryana, each day,” the CM said.
 
 Sources said the campaign has been designed on the lines of a similar initiative for improving governance known as “CM’s Good Governance Associates”. Under this, the associates are posted in each of the 22 districts for a year where they represent the CM’s office and work closely with the deputy commissioner and district officials. These associates interact regularly with the CM and present their work and recommendations to him.
 
 Admitting that the initiative taken by the government won’t be enough to achieve the ambitious goal of “no-road death” in the state, the CM said there was a need to sensitise the public towards road safety and removing the shortcomings after deliberations.
 
 Responding to the issue raised by model-actor Milind Soman about no footpath or cycle-track along Golf Course Road, the CM said “the stretch has 16 lanes and hence there is enough space to make provisions for separate lanes for pedestrians and cyclists”. 
 
 He directed the Gurgaon police commissioner to create such space in coordination with Huda and realty major DLF.
 
 
