Mumbai: The number of commuters who use   daily has risen in the past 10 years, which, in turn, has led to a “disturbing” decline in the use of  , according to the latest report of  , a forum of  .

 The report, collated with data from government and private statistical agencies, states that 77.1% of daily passenger trips were by public transport in 2015-16 down from 89.1% in 2005-06.
 
 On the other hand, statistics show   increased from 10.9% of the total daily commuters in 2005-06 to 22.9% in 2015-16. In terms of numbers, private car and bike ridership increased from 7.6 lakh to 16.4 lakh —a 116% growth in a decade.
 
 The decline has mainly been in the road sector, especially buses and taxis, said A V Shenoy of the Samiti. BEST, with a fleet of 4,000 buses, itself, saw a huge drop in commuters — from 32.9% in 2005-06 to 18.3% in 2015-16. 
 
 Public transport includes buses, autos, taxis, suburban railways, metro and monorail. Shenoy said the report also speaks about the way citizens commute by different modes of transport in Mumbai, analyses vehicles entering city through different entry points daily, and brings to the fore major transportation problems faced by rail and road users.
 
 Local trains had the highest ridership with 46% of commuters using it daily in the city. More than 18% of the citizens were ferried by public transport buses while 5.8% travelled by taxis and 5% opted for autorickshaws for daily commute. Among those who preferred to use one or multiple modes of transport to travel daily from home to office and back, 46% also chose to walk a few kilometres en route. “This should be encouraged,” said Shenoy. Metro and monorail comprises close to 2% of the city’s total commuters, the report states. Latest metro statistics show that daily ridership increased to 3.6 lakh in 2017.
 
 “An analysis of traffic counts on the outer periphery (cordon) shows that a total 5.65 lakh vehicles enter or leave Mumbai daily. Major traffic handling corridors are Western Express Highway and Sion-Panvel Highway with 28% traffic/vehicle load shared by each, followed by Eastern Express Highway (20% load), Mulund-Airoli Bridge (13.5%), Lal Bahadur Shastri Road (11%) and Gorai Uttan Road (0.5%),” the report mentions and adds that the population of private cars had increased on these stretches leading to peak-hour traffic snarls at several locations. Traffic on Western Express Highway, especially on the Jogeshwari-Kandivli stretch, was a nightmare during peak hours.
 
 While agreeing that public transport needs to be given a push, Ashok Datar of Mumbai Environmental Social Network said, “Let us have an integrated approach. If we start the odd-even pilot project in Mumbai, nearly 40% cars will be off roads and the available road space can be used to demarcate lanes for buses. We should initially restrict only to Western Express highway in the morning southwards and in the evening northwards. It should be accompanied by kerb side bus lane. BEST should run 60 to 100 buses per hour of which one-third should be AC . A bus carries the load of eight cars and occupies less road space.”
 
 Experts pointed out that unlike trains and metro, BEST did not have a “right of way.”
 
 “We need to provide solutions from the grassroots level, which is demarcating roads to create dedicated lanes for buses. Once that is done, you can expect buses to arrive punctually and with good frequency. The state and civic authorities should support/fund the BEST undertaking and ensure there are 1,000 new air-conditioned buses on roads for daily commute to dissuade citizens from using private vehicles,” they added.
 
 
