NAGPUR: Two years from now, farmers in the dry-land cotton belt of   will be able to cultivate two early maturing cotton varieties, both Bt and non Bt (straight) varieties. The crop duration will range from just 100-120 days compared to conventional cotton varieties which range from 180 to 240 days. The two short duration cotton are likely to be the earliest maturing ones in the world.

 Developed by the   ( ) these varieties will have a series of advantages over the conventional cotton varieties in the form of higher yield, quality fibre, minimum cultivation cost with more profit, minimum management, water use efficiency, insecticide efficacy, minimum pesticide usage. Above all, the new varieties are resistant to sucking pests, a problem still associated with even Bt cotton. 
 
 CICR director  , the man behind the project who had his last day in office on Wednesday, told TOI that Indian cotton attracted minimum price across the world due to its un-uniform quality. The new variety is promising and can fetch very good price internationally. 
 
 “Due to such a short duration, the flowering as well as fruiting of the crop can be synchronized with the monsoon to an extent that all bolls are same sized, mature or burst at same time and can be harvested in one go manually or mechanically due to the uniformity. This naturally will bring a higher price. Also, it gives farmer time to take another crop, particularly legumes on residual moisture in the same land during the same season. Long duration cotton is actually a bane for India,” said Kranthi.
 
 Santosh HB, the scientist who has developed the two varieties, says the yield can be increased by almost double by growing it in high density planting system. He got the initial cotton lines or material from his teacher SS Patil of the   in Dharwad.
 
 The new varieties with jassid (an insect) tolerance and compact plant architecture were developed through systematic and scientific conventional breeding approach. It involves hybridization between the chosen parents and selection among the segregating population.
 
 “The hybridized material provided by Patil was thoroughly evaluated at CICR for the last four crop seasons. The most promising plants which had early maturity, tolerance to sucking pests, compact plant architecture, bigger boll size, better yield potential and fibre quality were identified among segregating population and selected further,” he said.
 
 The identified promising lines are ideally suited for High Density Planting System (HDPS) and also to mechanize harvesting, according to Santosh. “They can provide higher cotton yields under HDPS and they require very less inputs, management and time. Returns to farmers will be better,” he said.
 
 Santosh added that they can be made available for cultivation to farmers in the form of cotton varieties both in “Bt and non-Bt versions once the uniformity is achieved”.
 
 The CICR scientist said that when the variety is ready for release it will be named ‘Yugank’ after Patil’s son who died in an accident. Patil has contributed much in the first stage of the experiment.
 
 R Tale, an organic cotton grower from Digras Bujurg near Akola, says he was looking forward to such a variety for organic cultivation. VL Bonde from Hinganghat said that he was also keen on taking both varieties and was excited about the development.
 
