KOLKATA: An affidavit filed by the   government in the Calcutta high court specifically mentioned that Maoists from “a neighbouring country” had crossed over to India and would be targeting government officials and property in Darjeeling and   districts.

 The affidavit was filed in response to the petition that led to the HC’s recent order on the deployment of more central forces in Darjeeling. “There is a serious intelligence report that Maoists from a neighbouring country have infiltrated the area and are going to target government officials working in the Hills and burn down government buildings,” the affidavit, filed by additional director-general (law and order), Anuj Sharma states.
 
 The state is finding it difficult to pull out officers from Left Wing Extremism (LWE)-hit districts, which is why only additional forces can be deployed in Darjeeling and Kalimpong, the affidavit states, adding, “There are also specific intelligence inputs that Maoists from Jharkhand are crossing over into Bengal and will make attempts to regroup in the Maoist-hit districts of Bengal if forces are withdrawn from there.”
 
 Three Bengal districts, Bankura, Purulia and West Midnapore, are designated as LWE-affected. Referring to the Gorkhaland stir, the affidavit says the situation has “aggravated immensely, and miscreants are now burning down... private houses and vehicles”. “Miscreants, with the help of conspirators, are using bombs and firearms and continuing their subversive and insurgent activities,” it states.
 
 The affidavit has drawn a sharp response from   (GJM), which headed the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration until resigning en masse in June. “The state government, on the one hand, wants us to participate in talks. But it does not hesitate to call our democratic movement an insurgent one.
 
 This is the reason why we have demanded talks with the Centre only,” party spokesperson Binita Roka said. Police claim that training of youth for Gorkhaland Personnel (GLP), GJM’s “peace-keeping wing”, has begun. Retired colonel and former GLP in-charge Ramesh Allay, however, said GLP was a democratic force, and it was not correct to compare training for it “to that imparted to Maoists in Nepal or insurgents in the Northeast”.
 
 
