KOLKATA: The   government doesn’t need additional central forces for violence-hit North 24 Parganas that the Centre had offered to the government hours after   parliamentary affairs minister   questioned the Centre’s intent over the delay in rushing forces to  .

 The state government informed the   on Thursday that it wanted central forces for Darjeeling, and not Basirhat. “Where is the central force (in Basirhat)? In these areas that have international borders BSF is always deployed. They have only moved in following the disturbance. We didn’t get any central force,” chief minister Mamata Banerjee said at Nabanna on Thursday, dropping broad hints that the Centre-state stand-off is far from over.
 
 The Bengal Cabinet instead resolved to stand firm on its ground and restore peace. The government has disallowed visits by political parties to the troubled areas like it did earlier in Dhulagarh and Hazinagar.
 
 The government has clamped section 144 CrPC in the entire Basirhat subdivision, making it difficult for the BJP MP delegation of Om Prakash Mathur, Meenakshi Lekhi and Satyapal Singh to reach the areas for submitting a report to party president Amit Shah. Police have also turned down similar proposals from Congress and Left. “The prohibition clause debars persons from paying a visit to these places,” a senior state official said. Over and above, police have been asked to give nod to rallies and meetings only after checking the antecedents of the organisations.
 
 Unable to get access to the troubled zone, BJP is taking the legal route to make the government put on record the number of people killed and those injured in the communal clashes. To add to the state’s discomfiture, a PIL was filed in Calcutta HC seeking directions to the state to ensure peace and pay a compensation of Rs 10 lakh to kin of those killed and Rs 5 lakh to the injured.
 
 Throughout Thursday, Trinamool and BJP leaders continued with the tirade with BJP national secretary Rahul Sinha giving enough ammunition to the ruling TMC to buttress its view that Raj Bhavan has turned into a “BJP den”.
 
 Sinha described West Bengal governor Keshari Nath Tripathi as “a dedicated soldier” of Prime Minister Narendra Modi hours after the governor categorically refuted the Trinamool charge. “Trinamool Congress thinks that bad-mouthing the governor would bottle him up. But they are making a mistake here. He is a dedicated soldier of the “Modi Vahini”. So, he will keep walking the path of truth,” Sinha said.
 
 Trinamool wasted little time in giving a retort. “Today, the cat is out of the bag. We have been saying for the last few days that Raj Bhavan has been transformed into a BJP den. Rahul Sinha has vindicated our view,” Chatterjee said.
 
 BJP’s Bengal minder and party national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya air-dashed to Kolkata on Thursday alleged the state government has “stooped to a new low” by trying to “malign” the office of the Governor in order to “divert” attention from its own failures.
 
 Coming out in support of Tripathi, Vijayvargiya said: “K N Tripathi is a seasoned politician. He was speaker of the Uttar Pradesh Assembly. He is well aware of the Constitution and its norms.”
 
 
