Madurai: The celestial wedding between Lord Sundareswarar and goddess Sri Meenakshi will take place on Sunday between 8.35 and 8.59 am at the Sri Meenakshi Amman temple. The temple officials headed by joint commissioner N Natarajan supervised the wedding arrangements till late Saturday night. 

 The Pazhamudhircholai Thiruvarul Murugan Baktha Sabai Trust provided supper (mappilai virundhu) to 20,000 people at the Sethupathi higher secondary school. The grand wedding feast laid for about 80,000 people at the school was prepared by hundreds of ardent devotees. C P Parimala, 56, from Palamedu, some 30 kms away from the city, said “Taking part in the food preparation has been a wish I’ve been nursing for 10 years. Now that I have been doing it for three years, it gives me peace.” 
 
 Meanwhile, the temple’s gift collection (‘moi’) will not happen at the Sethupathi school this time something which caught the devotees by surprise. The temple authorities said there was no nexus between the grand feast being held at the school and the temple. It also asked devotees to contribute offerings at the temple’s office and get receipts. 
 
 When asked about alleged misappropriation of funds in the name of collection of ‘gifts’ last year by the temple personnel, PTMBS Trust president P N Vivekanandan said, “We have been providing wedding feast since 2000. It was then provided to 3,000 people while now it is offered to one lakh people. The temple authority started collecting ‘moi’ on school premises from 2015. Last year, the temple staff were involved in swindling of money. They collected money without giving proper receipts which was also recorded in the CCTV cameras installed by the school management. We also took up the issue with the temple office through phone. But, there was no action on it. It forced the school management to deny permission to the temple authority to collect gifts.” 
 
 School correspondent and Supreme Court advocate S Parthasarathy said “Our school comes under a private management and we are providing space to the trust as a service. As we started receiving complaints about illegal collection of money last year, we didn’t want a bad name for the school. So we have refused permission to the temple authority to collect gifts.”
 
 Commenting on the issue, temple joint commissioner N Natarajan said, “The temple authority is ready to take action against the erring people if evidence to prove the swindling of money is shown. Rs 2.75 lakh was collected the previous year and Rs 3.5 lakh last year. We have sought an explanation from the school on their denial of permission. If there is no reply, we will handle the issue legally.”
 
 
