NASHIK: Vehicle buyers in the city, especially those interested in purchasing two-wheelers, got unexpected bonanza as   dealers doled out huge discounts on immediate sales.

 The dealers went into an overdrive following the   order to ban sale of Bharat Stage III (BS-III) vehicles from April 1. Buyers jumped at the opportunity to purchase vehicles at much discounted rates. Some auto dealers in the city claimed that 90% of BS III two-wheelers in the city were sold on Thursday.
 
 The apex court has banned sale of BS III vehicles from April 1, when BS IV norms will come into effect. Accordingly, registration and sale of BS III vehicles will not be allowed from April 1. 
 
 Two-wheeler showrooms on Thursday offered discounts up to Rs 14,500, including free insurance, to clear their stock by March 31. Sources in the auto sector said many two-wheeler dealers had an inventory of around 1,500 vehicles of BS-III category. Of these, dealers claimed, around 1,300 two-wheelers were sold on Thursday. 
 
 Scooters from well-known automobile firms had many takers after the discounts were announced. 
 
 Bipin Batavia, a dealer of a two-wheeler showroom, said, “I had inventory of 150 vehicles of BS III category. There was a huge rush of people after we offered discounts upto 14,500, including free insurance. Around 125 units were sold on Thursday after the Supreme Court judgement. The remaining stock of 25 units is expected to be sold before Friday afternoon.”
 
 Most of the auto companies in passenger, sedan and multi-utility vehicles have already shifted to BS-IV category, but the problem is in commercial vehicles as some companies still have inventory of BS-III units.
 
 An automobile company was offering   of Rs 3 lakh for a BS-III category vehicle, which is actually priced at Rs 18 lakh. 
 
 An official from a dealership facility said, “We had inventory of 60 units of commercial vehicles with BS III. We offered discounts on our various commercial vehicles. Around eight were sold on Thursday and we are expecting more sales on Friday,” the official said.
 
 A bench of Justices   and   on Wednesday decided to take the “drastic” step, saying that BS-III vehicles could aggravate the already deteriorating air quality in the country and such a step was needed to handle the menace of pollution. Holding that the health of millions of people is more important, the court dismissed the plea of automakers to allow them to dispose of existing stocks of 8.2 lakh BS-III vehicles.
 
