Madurai: Commerce, languages and pure science streams seem to be ruling the roost as the admission season gets into full swing in colleges post the declaration of Plus 2 examination results. With the students scouting for suitable colleges and courses to pursue higher studies, the general buzz for medicine has been missing this year. This has been primarily blamed on the confusion over NEET (National Eligibility-Cum-Entrance Test) but the demand for engineering courses appears to be waning as well. 

 The demand for BCom courses is sky rocketing in almost all arts & science colleges in the city. More than 3,000 applications have been received for commerce course. Literature and science are on the comeback trail because of the scope in government jobs like teaching positions. 
 
 “Of late companies have been conducting campus interviews in arts and science colleges too. More than 400 of our students have been placed in various companies including IT sector”, says Dr M Eyini, principal of Thiagarajar College. There was good demand from employers for bright graduates in BBA, BCA, BSc IT, BSc Mathematics and BSc Microbiology, Biotechnology and Chemistry, she said. 
 
 Considering the demand for arts & science courses, the city colleges are introducing new courses for the academic year. 
 
 For instance, the American College is launching BSc Psychology, BSc Physical Education and BSc Food Science. Principal of the college Dr M Davamani Christober said that students preferred these new courses too. “There is a good response among students for these courses because these are employment-oriented. There is good demand for physical education too because we have good infrastructure for sports”, he mentioned. 
 
 All these new courses are self-financed by the colleges. Madura College will be introducing BSc Statistics, Microbiology and BCom Banking & Insurance. “Any new course has to be self-financed but we make it a point to keep the fees affordable”, said director of self-financed courses of Madura College, K M Rajasekaran. 
 
 But the new courses are offered with a tag as ‘Subject to Affiliation from Madurai Kamaraj University’. The university affiliation committee has completed its formalities for new courses but the Vice-Chancellor is yet to be appointed in the university even after two years. “We admit students after informing them that the subjects are waiting for affiliation”, a principal said. 
 
 Like city colleges, rural colleges also have come out with new courses this year. “Our college is already offering BSc Hotel Management & Catering, Tourism Hotel Management, Aviation Management, Airlines & Catering Management, Hospitality and Hospital Management. We will be introducing Diploma in Nursing Aide course affiliated to MGR Medical University this year”, stated Dr P S Navaraj, Principal of Annai Fathima College of Arts & Science at Thirumangalam. 
 
 
