LUCKNOW: The months-long feud in the Yadav family, which came to a point of virtual no return on January 1, is likely to end on Friday with a ray of hope emerging after yet another day of hectic parleys and show of strength – the possibility of UP chief minister Akhilesh Yadav and his father Mulayam Singh Yadav coming together after their bitter falling out earlier this week.

 Sources close to the family told TOI that Akhilesh was even ready to reach the Amausi airport here on Thursday, to receive Mulayam, who flew down from Delhi in the evening. However, he changed his plan later.
 
 Early on Thursday morning, Mulayam, accompanied by his younger brother Shivpal Yadav, flew to Delhi and held a meeting with Amar Singh. Around the same time in Lucknow, Akhilesh held a meeting of SP’s elected representatives where more than 250 MLAs, MLCs and MPs signed affidavits pledging their support to him as the national president. He asked party’s district units and executive committees chiefs to submit similar affidavits by Friday. Of the 229 MLAs in the SP kitty, as many as 207 were present.
 
 While senior SP minister Azam Khan, who has been holding long talks with both Akhilesh and Mulayam since Wednesday, said that there is some “good news likely to emerge soon,” sources in the party said a formal announcement may be made on Friday on Akhilesh continuing as the national president and the factions withdrawing their claims on the  .
 
 What prompted the two sides to give it a shot at resolving the crisis was the possibility of the EC freezing the party symbol.
 
 Sources also indicated that Akhilesh’s meeting with SP’s elected representatives may have had his rival faction to think of resolving the present crisis.
 
 Akhilesh, too, is learnt to have told the party’s representatives that he could step down from the post of national president once the assembly elections were over, if Netaji asked him to do so.
 
 It is learnt that, during his meeting with Mulayam on Wednesday, Akhilesh told his father to give him three months time to prove himself and lead the party through the elections.
 
 He told them that he had called up his father thrice on Thursday and would go to the airport to receive him.
 
 Akhilesh called the meeting after the   asked the two factions to submit affidavits pledging support from their party cadres. Both sides had approached the EC last week staking claim to the party and its symbol after Ram Gopal Yadav had declared in a special party convention here on Sunday that Akhilesh had the support of a majority in the party and that he was the national president. The meet had also resolved to expel Amar Singh from the party and sack Shivpal from the post of the state president.
 
