KOLKATA: Acclaimed director   believes that censorship is an offshoot of a   governing the Indian mindset for centuries. "Censor or the government or the people with the authority have a patriarchal attitude. Censorship isn't getting abolished because nobody wants to lose control over popular culture," Jha said during a visit to the city. 

 His production 'Lipstick Under My Burkha' was in the midst of a censorship row recently. "I never expected the film to be refused certification completely. But I laughed when I saw the letter describing the film as 'women-oriented' and with words like 'female fantasy'. They can't tolerate little struggles of these women and looking at things or hearing things from their points of view. Male gaze and what   has done in his own films are permitted. It's the female perspective that they can't tolerate," he said.
 
 When asked why the government is taking long to implement the recommendations of the   committee, he said, "The intention must have been there to bring about a change. But the government develops cold feet when they realise what it might mean. They won't allow that freedom. There is no need of censor board. You can specify what the content is and the certification but there is no need of censoring."
 
 Some say censorship might not be too bad an idea in times of intolerance. "But there will always be touchy people in society who are stronger than the government. There are fringe elements who barge into Sanjay Leela Bhansali's sets and the government can't do anything. How can one stop if someone makes a documentary and uploads it?" he asked.
 
 Alankrita Srivastava, the director of 'Lipstick Under My Burkha', said: "I keep on hearing about new laws every other day. There was apparently a poll to decide if a certain word can be used in a trailer. We were told that someone can't show films at festivals abroad without certification. I don't think we can just announce laws this way." 
 
 On the Amartya Sen documentary row, he said CBFC has been doing such things for years now. He had tweeted after the ' ' protests. "I was upset with the protests. I had tweeted saying this is not done. But this is what has been happening all the time. Remember what had happened to  's documentaries which in the past have been banned?" he asked.
 
