NEW DELHI: India yesterday urged the   Security Council ( ) to use sanctions to cripple the source of funds for terrorists in  , many of whom have safe havens across the border in  .

 By emphasising that sanctions are the most effective way to stamp out   in the region, India was none-too-subtly targeting international action against Pakistan, which is home to the Afghan-oriented terror groups, the Haqqani Network and the Taliban, and the India-focussed groups Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish-e-Mohammed.
 
 In an address at the UNSC, Syed Akbaruddin, India's permanent representative at the UN, didn't name Pakistan once, but name-checked all the terror groups based there. Akbaruddin also spoke of the need to safeguard Afghanistan's sovereignty and stability that "anti-government terrorist elements are trying to undermine from their safe havens across the borders" of Afghanistan.
 
 "We support the determination to overcome the challenges of security faced by Afghanistan and the willingness of many in the international community to effectively deal with the issue of safe havens enjoyed by the terrorist organizations that pose a threat to the region and beyond," said Akbaruddin.
 
 "The   must act on the funds which the terrorists in Afghanistan are generating through their illicit activities," said Akbaruddin.
 
 Sanctuaries for terrorism cannot exist "anywhere and at any level", emphasised Akbaruddin.
  
 "We must not differentiate between good and bad terrorists, or play one group against the other. The Taliban, Haqqani Network, Al-Qaeda, Daesh, Lashkar-e-Taiba, Jaish-e-Mohammed and others of their ilk are all terror organizations, many of them proscribed by the UN. They should be treated like terrorist organizations with no justifications offered for their activities," he said.
 
 Akbaruddin then urged the UNSC to consider the Resolution 1988 sanctions regime which was adopted in 2011. This resolution targeted the Taliban by using methods like freezing of assets, travel bans and an arms embargo to cripple the terror group.
 
 "These are significant instruments and must be utilized to their full capacity," said Akbaruddin.
 
 India called the situation in Afghanistan "painful" and "disturbing" and added the security atmosphere there is worsening.
 
 "The multiple crises that have been inflicted on Afghanistan have made Afghan territory attractive for criminal and terrorist groups, who are well connected to international terror and crime networks. These groups are stealing the resources of Afghanistan which ought to belong to the people of the country," said India's Akbaruddin.
 
 
