PATNA: The state government will develop a Sikh circuit by improving the infrastructure at the gurdwaras at different places in   from all over the world, said CM   on Thursday.
 
  Speaking at the   at  , Nitish said, “Considering the fact that Bihar is a significant place for Sikhs as it was visited by Guru Nanak Dev and Guru Teg Bahadur as well, we want to develop all major Sikh shrines in the state to form a  .”
  
  The CM said the Sikh circuit would cover Takhat Sri Harmandir Ji Saheb, Guru Ka Bagh, Bal Leela Gurdwara (all in Patna City), Handi Saheb at Danapur, Guru Teg Bahadur Gurdwara at Gaighat in Patna, Guru Nanak Kund at Rajgir, Gurdwara Pacheesi at Munger and the gurdwaras at Ara, Katihar, Gaya, Nawada, Sasaram and Bhagalpur.
  
  Nitish said a multipurpose centre and a garden would also be developed near Guru Ka Bagh in Patna City. “The preparations for the Prakashotsava started several years ago and despite the constraints like narrow roads to Patna Saheb, the state government did everything to improve the infrastructure. Flyovers were constructed, roads were widened, new drains were constructed and overall infrastructure was improved. We want to develop similar facilities at other gurdwaras in the state,” he said.
  
  The CM thanked his senior officials and former Bihar chief secretary G S Kang for making and supervising the arrangements for the Prakashotsava. “Kang has been in Amritsar for the past 10 years after his retirement. I asked him to come to Patna and look after the preparations. Similarly, retired IPS officer Baljit Singh was also called for moderating the preparations for the event. All have tried our best, but we still apologize if any of the guests faced any problem here,” the CM said.
  
  Nitish also thanked people of Patna for their warm hospitality and said his government would organize a similar mega event for the centenary celebrations of Champaran Satyagrah later this year. “Bapu came to Bihar 100 years ago and started his satyagrah from Champaran. It is a great opportunity for us to celebrate the centenary year of the great movement, which paved the way for independence of the country,” said Nitish.
  
  Bihar governor Ram Nath Kovind also congratulated Nitish for successfully organizing the Prakashotsava. “It is a matter of honour for all the organizers, including central and state government and Takhat Sri Harmandir Sahib managing committee, to have hosted such a large gathering of devotees from across the world,” said Kovind.
