HYDERABAD: The   on Thursday busted a fake currency manufacturing gang and arrested four persons, including two engineering students, and seized   with a face value of Rs 34.86 lakh.

 On a tip-off,   sleuths arrested  , 40, of Bowenpally, Mothesham Ali Khan, 45, of Himayatnagar, Wajeehuddin Khan and Abdul Samad, both 20, students of Lords Institute of Engineering & Technology near Himayatsagar, on Wednesday night from different places in the city. Fake currency of face value Rs 34.86 lakh in Rs 2,000 denomination and a printer-cum-scanner were recovered from their possession.
 
 At 7 pm on Wednesday, N Ahran, canteen in-charge of Lords College, informed the police that he had identified two students who gave him Rs 2,000 fake notes.
 
 Police rushed to the spot and took Wajeehuddin an d Abdul into custody. “The students ordered snacks at the canteen and gave Ahran fake notes of Rs 2,000. Ahran verified the notes and realised that they are fake as the quality was inferior and they had the same series number,“ inspector V Umender said. Upon interrogation, the duo confessed about their associates, following which Sharma and Mothesham were arrested. A subsequent probe revealed that Sharma, who is into jewellery business, was the king pin of the fraud.
 
 Sharma and his friend Mothesham, a sales associate of Bajaj Capital, were facing financial problems. To overcome the same, the duo decided to manufacture counterfeit currency. Sharma had purchased a colour printer-cum-scanner, a photocopy machine and A4 size papers from Chenoy Trade Centre in Secunderabad.
 
 “Using the printer-cumscanner, the duo scanned Rs 2,000 currency notes and started printing counterfeit notes at Sharma's house at Bowenpally .Before they could clear debts using the counterfeit currency, Mothesham wanted to check how people would receive their product and gave RS 2 lakh fake currency to his nephew Wajeehuddin and his friend Abdul, asking them to circulate the same at the college canteen and shopping malls,“ the inspector said. The four were produced in court and remanded in judicial custody on Thursday.
 
