PUNE: The new city BJP, which is crowded with outsiders who have nothing to do with the RSS ideology, has become a cause of   who are putting their heads together to maintain the party’s original face. 

 Just days after the party emerged victorious in the 2017 corporation elections, the Sangh circle and original BJP workers in the city were ruffled with the demand to make   BJP’s first mayor. Bhosale is the wife of NCP MLC Anil Bhosale and contested as a BJP supported candidate after the NCP rejected her nomination. Anil Bhosale is a relative of BJP Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Kakade, who is wielding power in the city BJP unit. 
 
 Kakade himself had got elected as independent Rajya Sabha MP and then joined the BJP assuring   that he will ensure the party’s win in Pune. According to Kakade’s supporters, of the total 98   elected in the PMC, about 50 are his loyalists. BJP leaders, however, deny the claim.
 
 The party draws its links from Jansangh leader Rambhau Mhalgi who established the ideological base for BJP not only in Pune but entire India. 
 
 The BJP’s deviation from RSS’ ideology, which started in Maharashtra with the era of Pramod Mahajan is completed, said a former BJP MLA, who added that today the BJP might have numbers, but this does not necessarily reflect that the Sangh ideology is finally received by masses. 
 
 The fight within the veteran RSS cadre and newcomers in the party is likely to intensify with Kakade putting efforts to control the reins of the party in Pune. However, Kakade said he has no differences with the city’s BJP leaders, including guardian minister Girish Bapat. 
 
 RSS veteran Aniruddha Deshpande told TOI, “The number of outsiders in the BJP is not so big. It is controllable. These people who have joined the BJP will have to work and act accordingly, they will immerse in the culture. There might be some pressure to make some adjustments during elections. But all those who have joined the party will work cohesively.” He added that BJP will have to put up a united face and show a good performance.
 
 Guardian minister Girish Bapat, who had earlier publicly expressed his unhappiness over Kakade’s active role in selecting candidates and importing leaders from other parties, said, “BJP has emerged stronger. We have collective leadership in the party and all decisions are taken together. There are no differences between us.”
 
 However, the old and new factions of the party are already gearing up to control the civic body’s coffers. The newcomers in the party are likely to demand the post of standing committee chairman if old cadre insists on the mayor’s post.
 
 Interestingly, leaders like Pimpri Chinchwad MLA Laxman Jagtap, who has been made the city unit president of the BJP, have tried to show their loyalty to RSS by donning the Sangh dress during functions. Jagtap has spent his entire political life in Congress and NCP, and was inducted in the BJP camp to ensure the party’s victory.
 
