Visakhapatnam: At a time when several vigilance and other agencies as well as the commissioner of railway safety (CRS) are busy finding facts regarding the Hirakhand Express accident,   (ECoR) sources told TOI that use of   to build the tracks is one of the reasons for the derailment.

 CRS Ram Kripal continued the probe at the divisional manager’s office here on Tuesday. Chief safety officer of ECoR SS Mishra and chief motive power engineer of   PK Pandal accompanied him to take inputs from the people and staff having information related to the derailment. On Monday, Kripal had held an enquiry at Rayagada and Kuneru railway stations.
 
 “ECoR has a shortage of material such as rail logs for repair and maintenance of the tracks, which is why the concerned authorities including those from the mechanical wing often reuse the logs. It happens in all railway zones. The life span of each log is maximum five years. If it is reused after expiry date, its not safe any more,” a railway source told TOI.
 
 The railway authorities keep aside rail logs that have minor damages and reuse them on the tracks where high speed trains do not run. For example, if a rail log from the main line has minor damages, it is replaced with a new log. The damaged log will be reused somewhere else like platforms, loco-sheds and shunting tracks where chances of a high-speed train operating is less.
 
 “If second-hand parts are used at platforms or routes where the speed of a train is less than 20 kmph, it is okay. But, if such rail logs are used on the main railway line, the risk of accidents will be high as the durability of the logs is less,” said a senior railway official on conditions of anonymity.
 
 According to official sources from the safety and mechanical wing of ECoR, train derailments can be a result of several other issues such as extremely heavy cargo that causes an imbalance of weight and crushes the tracks, malfunctioning of train parts, failing brakes, faulty signals and poorly maintained areas around the railway line, among others.
 
 
