HUBBALLI: For the people of  , a meal is never complete without having chewed on a  . The foot-tapping number from the film ‘Don’,  , evokes strong emotions among the people of this region. However, for the past 15 days, people in the twin cities have not been able to partake of such a simple joy. 

 The price of betel leaves having skyrocketed, retail shops across residential colonies in   have stopped selling them.
 
 Riyaz Javali, a betel leaf vendor in Janata Bazaar in Hubballi, said that many provisional stores had stopped buying these leaves. “We are selling 100 leaves of kari ele, a variety of betel leaf, for Rs 120. Although the price of ambadi ele is less (Rs 80 for 100 leaves), not many are interested in buying these since their size has shrunk as a result of drought,” Javali told TOI.
 
 Lalsab Doddamani, another betel leaf vendor, said that he was struggling to sell even a single bundle recently. “Earlier, I sold one bundle of 12,000 leaves every day, but it takes me up to three days to sell the same quantity now. The demand for betel leaves has dropped drastically in Hubballi,” he said.
 
 A shopkeeper in Lingaraj Nagar, Nagaraj Bhandage cited the steep hike in the wholesale price of betel leaves for the fall in demand. “Till two weeks ago, I could sell three leaves for Rs 2, but now I would have to charge Rs 2 for each leaf. Customers are annoyed with such a huge leap in the price. To avoid arguments with my customers, I stopped stocking up on the leaves,” said Bhandage.
 
 Parvetevva Bhramagoudra observed that while the size of the leaves had reduced, the price has only gone up. “It’s not an essential food item. Now, I just eat betel nuts with some saunf,” she added.
 
 Aslam Hebballi, who acts as a conduit between the betel leaf cultivators and the wholesale vendors, noticed that there was a shortage of local leaves in the market. “Drought has had an adverse effect on both quantity and quality of production in this region. However, there has been no impact on the supply from Andhra Pradesh and Maharashtra,” he said.
 
 However, he was confident that local leaves would soon be available within a fortnight, and the prices would decline as a consequence.
 
 “The next yield will be harvested soon, and the price will come down to Rs 50 to Rs 60 for 100 leaves,” Hebballi informed.
 
 
