NAGPUR: The National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) says the Kishenji referred in   textbook ‘Democratic Politics-II’ is not the Naxalite but a former   MP from Sambalpur in Odisha,   

 Nagpur-based organization Bhumkal Sanghatan, an anti-Naxalite organization which works with tribals in Gadchiroli district, had alleged on Tuesday that the NCERT book’s chapter six had an entire page dedicated to ‘Kishenji’ which amounted to glorifying Naxalite ideology. 
 
 However, NCERT has added that the content given on page 76 will be reviewed before the next reprint edition. The book was printed in March 2007 first and the last reprint was in January this year.
 
 Bhumkal Sanghatan’s assumed that the Kishenji mentioned in the book was a Naxalite as there were references to people’s movement and work in rural areas.
 
 The fictional characters of four women are identified as those working with the people’s movement in rural parts of the country were assumed by the Sanghatan to be associated with Naxalites. Datta Shirke, secretary of the organization, told TOI earlier in the day that such topics must not be allowed in school textbooks. 
 
 NCERT spokesperson   said that the name ‘Kishenji’ has caused the confusion and even the other four fictional characters are not associated with Naxalite movement. 
 
 “It appears that the use of name Kishenji created misunderstanding. The entire discussion takes place in the context of democratic reforms through constitutional means. No reference was made to any Naxalite leader. Indeed, the inspiration behind this narrative was Kishen Patnaik (1930-2004), who was elected as a Member of Parliament from Sambalpur, Odisha in 1962,” said Kumar.
 
 Strangely, the particular page does not mention the full name of Patnaik nor does it identify him as a former MP. 
 
 Kumar also pointed out that one of the question mentions that ‘Kishenji’ passed away in 2004. “This textbook was published in March 2007. No change was made on this page since then,” said Kumar. 
 
 The Naxalite leader Kishenji was killed in an encounter in 2011. 
 
