NAGPUR: Even as the tussle between   (NU)   over taking responsibility of   continues, its functioning has gone from bad to worse. In a dubious move coming on the back of many goof ups, the exam section has issued marklists with an earlier date, to meet the deadline for announcing results.

 This has left many Master of Science (MSc) chemistry students in the lurch as they have been rendered ineligible to apply for revaluation of backlog papers. Due to this, the students would lose an entire academic year before they complete their degrees.
 
 The aggrieved MSc students claimed that their third semester (CBS) result was declared on April 29 but the marklists bear April 19 as the date.
 
 According to NU rules, the students need to apply for revaluation within five days of the result. The exam section did not realize that its illegal act of issuing marklist in back date would clash with the revaluation rules.
 
 A source blamed both, private agency Promarc and NU, for the goof up. “NU is declaring results to meet the deadline of 45 days even when the marklists are not ready. The software being used by Promarc has lots of problems, which create glitches. Many of them never come to fore,” the source said.
 
 Promarc director Mayur Kalkayian refused to be quoted. A Promarc official admitted there was a delay but blamed NU for sending the data late. “It is an old problem of results being prepared by NU’s unit and students are given deadline extensions. I don’t know why this time they are not allowing students to apply for revaluation,” the official said.
 
 On May 3, TOI had reported how the   and Evaluation director Neeraj Khaty and Pro-Vice Chancellor Pramod Yeole were vying for charge of exam section. The section is currently under Yeole but he didn’t answer TOI’s calls.
 
 Khaty denied that the result was declared with a back date. “Results are being announced early and students don’t keep track of them. If there was any technical problem, then all colleges would have complained. I received only a couple of complaints from Institute of Science and VMV College. If the tabulation register is not collected by colleges after declaration of results, it is not the exam section’s fault.”
 
 On this being a perennial issue, Khaty said the last time they had allowed students to apply for revaluation after the deadline because technical problems were confirmed. “This time there were no such issues,” he added.
 
