NEW  : The capital has witnessed over 40,000 cases of dog   this year alone, translating to over 200 cases daily or nine cases every hour. 

 In the first half of this year, north corporation has reported over 23,459 cases at its hospitals and dispensaries, while east Delhi has seen 16,488 cases at anti-rabies clinics. The work of sterilising dogs has been mostly outsourced to NGOs, which charge Rs 500-750 per dog. 
 
 Despite spending a heavy budget annually, the number of dog attacks is not coming down. Last December, dog bite cases at anti-rabies clinics of the three civic bodies were over 80,000, while in 2015 the number was above 78,000. The actual number of stray dogs on the city’s streets is not known. “The last pan-Delhi survey was conducted by the erstwhile unified MCD in 2009 in which the number of stray dogs was over 5.6 lakh. The number must have increased in the ensuing years,” said an EDMC official.
 
 A survey conducted by NGO Humane Society International in 2016 showed that south Delhi alone has over 1.89 lakh strays. “The civic bodies have floated tenders several times, but failed to get a response. It is very difficult to put an exact figure on the stray population,” the official added. Interestingly, south Delhi has reported only 893 cases of dog bites this year. Last year’s count was 2,650. Officials argue that the low count is due to lesser number of people approaching the municipal dispensaries preferring private clinics and hospitals.
 
 There are only 13 sterilisation centres under the three  . While SDMC has 12 sterilisation centres, north corporation has just one. EDMC has none. 
 
 North and east corporations are in the process of opening five more centres.
 
 NGOs argue that strays are being unnecessarily targeted. Gauri Maulekhi from   said, “So many dog bites can’t be attributed to strays. A study in Kerala showed that a large number of people were bitten by pet dogs. Infrastructure for sterilisation commensurate to the problem should be built and area-wise targets should be fixed.”
 
 
