NASHIK: The   ( ) has slashed the numbers of   on Nashik-Pune route during peak hours — from the current eight buses per hour to only four — owing to lack of passengers.

 “The MSRTC is taking strict measures to cut down its losses by various measures, including curtailing the numbers of buses on routes that do not have revenue from ticket sales. Like  , at least about 28 services have been slashed including long-distance buses to Sangli and Satara,” an MSRTC officer said.
 
 The long distance Satara and Sangli-bound buses were started during   mela in August 2015 and they have been running till date. The mounting losses, however, made the MSRTC rethink over running of buses and hence it planned to cut down the same.
 
 “There are at least eight ordinary buses that stop at numbers of stops between   and Pune every hour during the peak hours. But now the frequency has been regulated to four buses per hour. The number of buses coming from other places and heading to Pune via Nashik is also huge and they are catering to the needs of the citizens. So, the reduction in number of buses will not affect the daily commuters,” the official added.
 
 However, the MSRTC has left the frequency of semi-luxury buses untouched. The current timing of one semi-luxury   every 30 minutes and one luxury bus every 60 minutes will remain intact.
 
 The MSRTC is engaged in cost cutting and has already experimented with the same by cutting down the bus services in areas where it was suffering huge losses. The Nashik 1 depot that runs city buses only, incurs a loss of Rs 10.1 per km as compared to loss of Rs 2.51 per km in the rural areas.
 
 “The services for the people who wish to travel locally by these buses will be affected, even as Pune-bound people will not be affected much, given the options available. There will be some rise in traffic during peak hours, but we expect the MSRTC to implement the changes after the end of examinations,” Rajesh Kundalkar, a resident of Nashik, said.
 
 
