NAGPUR: Over three decades of long association between   (BOI) is all set to end next week following the bank’s refusal to refund its dues of about Rs32 lakh withdrawan fraudullanty in December 2015 using two forged cheques. TOI on March 1, 2016, had first reported about NU’s intentions to break the ties.

 The NU administration will be tabling a proposal in this regard during Wednesday’s management council meeting, after which a formal communication will be dispatched to the bank’s headquarters for ending all ties.
 
 “We’ve given them enough time, but they’re not ready to refund our dues. Instead, they blame our officials for the mess. They said our officials are also involved in the fraud and cheques were issued by us. But we showed them the original cheques,” vice chancellor SP Kane told TOI.
 
 The fraud came to light after pharmacy department employees went to the bank and realized that the accounts was having insufficient funds. They brought it to the notice of deputy registrar Anil Hirekhan, who was then handling temporary charge of NU’s finance and accounts officer. He immediately reported the matter to the Ambajhari police station. After preliminary investigations, it came to the fore that unknown accused withdrew the amount in two instalments from NU’s accounts, using two forged cheques in the name of   from the Yavatmal branch of BOI.
 
 The amount was first transferred to  , before being partially withdrawn. About Rs11 lakh are still lying in Canara Bank, after it was sealed. Hirekhan and other NU officials then visited the bank in Yavatmal and conducted further enquiry. The funds were meant for salary of NU department of pharmacy’s employees, which was around Rs22 lakh and for payment of electricity bills worth Rs8 lakh.
 
 Registrar Puran Meshram also confirmed that NU would be tabling the proposal before the management council, comprising ex officio members. “It is only after council’s decision, we will officially announce the breaking of ties. The proposal will be tabled by finance and accounts officer Raju Hiwase. The BOI is working with NU since over three decades when I was studying. Ironically, the bank is still working in the old-age in the era of digitalization and information technology,” he said.
 
 Kane, however, said the university will not ask BOI to vacant the premises immediately. “It would take some time for the bank to wind up the operations. All will, however, depend on management council’s decision,” he said.
 
 NU has already inked pacts with two private sector banks — Yes and HDFC — for the students and the colleges for paying fees and other charges, excluding the examination fees. “The decision to break up the ties was also taken because of the bank’s failure to provide all such services to the students, which was need of the hour. The students are in fact happy with the development,” an NU official said.
 
 The VC, however, refused to comment on the replacement. “We will decide on new player, once this proposal is cleared. There are plenty of options,” he said.
 
