NAGPUR: To  , the calorie rich potato, is going through a lean phase. Rates of the vegetable, which is a common source of carbohydrates, have touched an all-time low. After the fresh crop started reaching the markets over a fortnight ago,   is being sold for Rs5 to 6 a kg at the bulk market in   (APMC) yard. 

 Traders in Uttar Pradesh, the major production centre expect that sizeable surplus may be left even after the cold storages are full. 
 
 This surpasses the fall in onion prices which have been in news for touching a rock bottom last week. Onions are fetching Rs1 to 2 more per kg as compared to potatoes at the Kalamana market. Both the commodities are traded together. The neighbourhood vegetable vendors are selling potatoes at Rs10 to 12 a kg and onions are for Rs14 to 16. 
 
 From note-ban to over production, market sources are attributing a variety of reasons to the crash. The rates of potatoes and onions are nearly half than that were during same period last year. The cultivators are barely able to recover the sowing expenses, admit traders. 
 
 Jaiprakash Wasani of Pankaj Trading Co at Kalamana APMC, which trades in onions and potatoes, said the rates are at a record low. Uttar Pradesh is the major supply centre which is facing a glut. “The crop is higher even in other growing areas like Bengal and Gujarat. So, there is a huge glut all over. Lack of exports is worsening the situation,” he said. 
 
 The cash crunch after note-ban has also forced farmers to accept lower rates if payments were made in cash said a trader here.
 
 There is a little scope for potato rates to improve in coming days, say traders.  , on the other hand, have improved slightly, said Ilhahi Baksh of   at Kalamna.
 
 Cold storages for potatoes in centres like Agra, Mainpuri, Sirsaganj are nearly full and it is likely that 30% of the stock will be still left over, adding to the glut, said a trader at Mainpuri.
 
 “Potato cultivation is higher by around 10% in UP, but at the same time the output is higher in other centres like Bengal and Gujarat leading to an oversupply,” said a representative of M/s Maharashjsingh and Sons at Mainpuri.
 
 The rates had sporadically touched a high of almost Rs15 a kg last year. This prompted many farmers to increase their output. However, this time it may be difficult for them to even recoup the expenses. said the source.
 
 Traders are, however, optimistic that rates of onions may improve in the coming days. As against the red variety, white onions which are preferred in Vidarbha are costlier at Rs320 to 400 per 50kg. This is because the variety is grown locally apart from supplies Bhavnagar in Gujarat leading to limited availability.
 
 
