One cannot describe the love   ma Bilimale, professor of Kannada, Cen tre of Indian Languages, School of Lan guage, Literature and Culture Studies,   University, New Delhi, has for the 600-year-old traditional art form Yakshagana. The first thing he does when he comes to his home town is watch a Yakshagana performance. He has won an award instituted by the  . Bilimale talks about the art form's resilience and adaptive nature.

 
 
 
 Not really, because so far Yakshagana has developed and sustained on its own. The art form has 600 years of history from medieaval Karna taka. Between the 15th and 16th centuries, it flourished on its own. A broad guideline may be useful, but handholding is not necessary. That will kill the art form because it's flexible and time-bound. If you do that, Yakshagana will lose its creativity.
 
 
 
 
 The major reason behind this is the Indian psyche which connects itself to the other world.And Yakshagana does it fantastically. The characters who dance on stage are derived from mythology like the Ramayana, Mahabharata, Bhagavatha, Devi Bahgavatha and so on. When mythical characters come on stage, they are not frozen in mythical times. They are very contemporary . If Lord Krishna has to talk to the audience, he has to be influenced by contemporary society­­ be it language or argument. Though I'm an atheist, I see Yakshagana because of its contemporary nature. Those art forms which did not make themselves contemporary all died.
 
 
 
 
 There are more than 15,000 to 20,000 performances annually , of short durations and a few night-long performances. The truncated three hour version is attracting the younger generation. It draws people to it like a magnet. Why has it sustained in spite of the onslaught of digital entertainment? Answers will come only through a thorough study.
 
 
 
 
 To some extent. There have been compromises, but a majority of artists and troupes still maintain tradition. Last December, I saw five performances. I was quite pleased. It was perfect.
 
 
 
 
 I'm not a Yakshagana scholar, but will accept it humbly out of respect for Yakshagana. Since people outside Karnataka do not know about this art form, whenever I go to other universities in India and abroad, I make it a point to spread the word about it. If you can communicate a mythical story to an outside audience, the communication should be strong and Yakshagana does this.
 
