PATIALA: A post on a   in the name of   claiming that gangster Vicky Gounder, the  , has fled the country, created a stir on Saturday. The Punjab Police, however, said it was not possible.

 The Facebook post congratulated the group members on Gounder managing to flee the country. While the post does not reveal any additional details, a photo appended with it shows an aeroplane, the ground handling services for which are being provided by Indo Thai Airport Management Services. The company handles ground services for a number of commercial airlines and operates from various airports across the country.
 
 
  
  
 
 Among the slew of congratulatory comments, one message cautions “Oh veer kio show of krde a yaar kuj tan soch lea kro post paun ton frst' (You should not show off like this. You should give it a thought before putting such posts). Another post in the group which was uploaded at around 2 pm on Saturday claimed 'Nee #Baaghi_Jatt hath ni auna..' (Rebel Jatt cannot be caught).
 
 However, the police termed these claims fallacious. Inspector General of Police Nilabh Kishore, who heads the Organized Crime Intelligence Unit (INT) entrusted the task of tracking down Nabha jail escapees, said it was not possible for Gounder to leave the country. He said there were around 12 to 14 accounts active on social media in the name of Gounder and anybody could have posted this misleading information.
 
 Meanwhile, sources said no missive regarding the latest social media post was circulated among officers, suggesting that it could be a hoax. Police investigations in the jailbreak case have long established that while KLF chief Harminder Singh Minto intended to escape and disappear in Goa, where his family runs a business, gangsters Vicky Gounder, Neeta Deol, Kulpreet Singh alias Neeta Deol, Gurpreet Singh Sekhon and Amanpreet Tonda had plans to escape abroad with the help of their Hong Kong-based handler Harminder Singh Romy.
 
 Romy had slipped out of the country after jumping bail in June last year and had set up base in Hong Kong. He had arranged funds for the escape and was pro viding the accused with the monetary and logistic support.
 
 Sources in the department said there were indications that Romy had got fake travel documents prepared in the name of his associates, which were to be used to flee abroad. Sources said in case Gounder has managed to escape from the country, it is most likely that he could be travelling to Thailand to join Romy.
 
