NEW DELHI: Condemning the violence on the  , Left groups and Congress’ students’ wing, NSUI, claimed that the DU administration was instructed not to take action against   activists, who allegedly indulged in violence on Wednesday. However, ABVP said that most of the students and teachers who came for the seminar at   were outsiders and raised slogans, demanding freedom for Kashmir and Bastar, which provoked the ABVP activists.

 Meanwhile, Amnesty International India stated that the recent “events at Ramjas College in Delhi illustrate the growing threat to freedom of expression on Indian university campuses”.
 
 Slamming the violence, Harish Gautam of Krantikari Yuva Sangathan said: “It is the responsibility of the college to allow programmes to take place. Protests can be held in a democratic and peaceful manner. The vandalism in which the ABVP members indulged was uncalled for. It should be known that since BJP is a ruling party at the Centre, ABVP is using the power of the establishment to ward off any protest against its communal, casteist and anti-democratic agenda.”
 
 Students and teachers said that instead of taking action against ABVP, the police “mercilessly beat up the protesters”. Prashant Mukherjee of SFI said: “Instead of lodging FIR against the ABVP goons who went on to beat up students, assault women and teachers, the Delhi Police has thrashed the protesters and detained us.”
 
 Right-wing teachers’ group, National Democratic Teachers’ Front, too said NDTF was opposed to exploiting freedom of speech and action or alternative view on national issues for promoting anti-national, pro-Pakistan stand. 
 
 A K Bhagi, president of NDTF, said the Left’s attitude towards violence was hypocritical. “Whereas it condemns any militant opposition to its anti-national activities as suppression of free speech, the Left stands solidly behind stone throwers of Kashmir, behind murderous terrorists and separatists, behind Maoists. That’s why there is no acceptance of their stand on free speech,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, the Left groups have called a joint protest at the Delhi Police HQ at ITO at 11am on Thursday. 
 
 
