BENGALURU: Seeking to win over farmers, an important chunk of the electorate,   may announce a slew of measures to revamp   in his upcoming budget. 

 The sops may include a loan waiver for farmers, especially those who have borrowed loans from cooperative banks, and continuation of the scheme which offers concessional and interest-free loans to ryots.
 
 Siddaramaiah has asked the finance department officials to chalk out the estimates for a   scheme. “The government is contemplating whether to offer a full or partial waiver, considering the resources it has after demonetization,” said a senior official in the finance ministry. The budget, which will be unveiled on March 15, is expected to dole out more such populist offerings to provide relief to farmers, especially those hit by successive droughts.
 
 According to government data, roughly 1,500 farmers have committed suicide since 2016, though the real reasons for half of these deaths are yet to be ascertained.
 
 In a letter to  , Siddaramaiah has expressed his willingness to waive the farm loans borrowed from co-operative banks, provided the Centre waives those availed from nationalized banks.
 
 According to agriculture department officials, about 23 lakh farmers have obtained farm loans worth Rs 10,500 crore from cooperative banks and 33 lakh farmers have borrowed them from nationalized banks (Rs 42,000 crore). “Siddaramaiah apparently knows that Modi will not respond to his appeal, but the idea is to put the BJP in a poor light and project the Congress as the sole saviour of farmers,” said a senior minister.
 
 The scheme for concessional crop loans is likely to continue this year as well. The government is mulling giving some incentives to farmers who paid their dues on time and were not covered under the loan waiver scheme, said a senior finance ministry official on condition of anonymity. 
 
 Farmer leader Kuruburu Shantakumar said the CM has assured them of a loan waiver scheme in the budget after looking into resource constraints. “I am confident about our demands being met as he understands farmers’ predicament,” he added.
 
 ‘Won’t fetch votes’
 
 Experts, however, say announcement of a ‘selective’ farm loan waiver is only a bait to get votes, and will not help the farmers’ cause. “Loan waivers won’t bring votes. It’s a proven fact. The farmer solidarity witnessed during the days of leaders M D Nanjundaswamy and K S Puttanaiah doesn’t exist today. Farmer politics has fragmented in recent years as preference is being given to caste politics. Instead, the government should focus on water supply for irrigation and help farmers fight drought,’’ said an academician at the University of Agriculture Sciences. 
 
 
 
 
 Though a waiver is a short-term measure, it is needed to internalize the stress that the farm economy is facing — in the form of declining farm gate prices, a phenomenon which is global in nature. Drought and demonetization have added to the burden. It will be better if the government focuses on measures which will make agriculture productive and remunerative in the long run
 
 TN Prakash Kamaraddi, chairman, Karnataka State Pricing Commission.
 
