The portrayal of relationships and the complexity involved in it have been one among the many things which, over the years, has made Kollywood stand out from other industries. Be it an affair between lovers who are obsessed with each other, the intricacies in a father-daughter or brother-sister relationship, the mystery and curiosity about life among teenagers, and so on, Tamil cinema has dealt with all this in a progressive way , sticking to the mainstream format. Interestingly ,a few of these films have been remade into other languages as well. In a departure from the trend where run-of-the-mills from Kollywood get remade in Bollywood, the fact that a film like  , which deals with a live-in relationship being chosen for the audience there, was a welcome change.  , a feel-good movie which has tinge of adult comedy, is another film in the pipeline of remakes in Bollywood. Here are a few Kollywood films which have touched upon sensitive and topical issues of the day . The treatment such topics received in the film can always be debated and discussed, but the very fact that there was an effort to introduce an issue which is rarely taken up by filmmakers speaks of the maturity in Kollywood. We hope that touchy, uncomfortable subjects will continue to be addressed by our industry in a format that's both entertaining and effective.

 
 Set in an urban milieu in Mumbai, the film throws light into the life of a young couple that meets in unusual circumstances, after which they fall madly in love with each other. Their ambition about leading a life together, aspirations about respective careers, worry about how the society perceives their unconventional relation, etc, was something which Tamil cinema hadn't explored much before.
 
 
 
  A couple that is excited to enter wedlock after their parents set an arranged marriage for them gets the shock of their lives after they realise that the groom suffers from erectile dysfunction. A serious issue, which had all the chances of going haywire, when made into a film, however, was made in such a way that the fun element was kept intact throughout. The couple discussing about their anxiety regarding this and finally sorting it out was something completely new for audience.
 
 
 
  The movie throws light upon AIDS, is said to have its lighter moments, too, apart from the hard-hitting realities of life. It is about eight people waiting for their blood result from morning till evening. The story unfolds in the lobby of a pathology lab in a span of few hours. Billed as an AIDS-awareness film, it has the characters sympathising with each other at a point, when they get to know that one among them is HIVaffected.
 
 
 The infatuation a youngster develops towards a girl in his neighbourhood eventually becomes an obsession. The guy who stalks her irrespective of her strong dislike of him finally manages to impress her, though the girl still is not sure about the relationship. Hailing from conservative backgrounds, the scene where they make love was a shocking surprise for the audience.
 
 
 
  What happens when an introverted guy ties the nuptial knot with a girl who has male friends and is comparatively modern in her approach? The topic was dealt in the film with some interesting sequences in its beginning. Marital rape, one of the silent crimes, which has taken place in several women's lives, and its implications, too, had been depicted in it. How the girl who faced it looks up to her husband and her difficulty in explaining it to her own mother were portrayed in the film. 
 
