Despite making it to the chartbusters a decade ago, through his collaboration with Vineeth Sreenivasan for the album Malayalee, music director   has been selective about his film projects. And that seemed to pay off with his music for the Tamil superhit Dhruvangal Pathinaaru ( ), which was lauded for its unique format and musical experimentation.

 Jakes, now, has a slew of projects lined up – in Tamil, Malayalam and Telugu – and has no regrets for taking it slow in his career. In conversation with the composer:
 
 
 
 First of all, Queen’s director Dijo Jose Anthony had worked as an assistant director in Angels, for which I had composed. So, I knew him for long and he had bounced off a few subjects. Queen seemed promising. Of late, with the success of films such as Angamaly Diaries, it’s clear that screenplay is the key and the effort that Dijo put in to develop the screenplay was immense. So, those two aspects pretty much sealed the deal.
 
 
 Yes, it’s not just my first campus film but also my first proper commercial musical. Dijo is a music composer himself. So, it was great working with him as he was particular about what kind of music he wanted. It also helped that we understood each other well. I have tried to make the music appealing and specific to the story; appealing especially because I didn’t want the music to be alien to the listeners. However, there are a couple of songs for which I tried some edgy ideas too.
 
 
 There’s nothing like that. The director of Monsoon Mangoes, Abi Varghese, was brought up in the US and his sensibilities are different. He’s someone who likes Wes Anderson and films with Scandinavian settings. So, he wanted to bring in those elements to the film. Monsoon Mangoes is a dear project to me, I just think it was ahead of its time.
 
 On my forte, I like all kinds of films – I enjoyed Angamaly Diaries as much as Kattapanayile Rithwik Roshan. I am not the kind of music director who is adamant about doing a particular brand of music, but would rather do what’s required for the film.
 
 
 I think it’s because D16, the film, and how music was incorporated into the story were something new to the Tamil audience. It garnered a lot of positive response among young filmmakers too. That’s why lately many directors often say that they want something similar to D16. And frankly the music for D16 came very naturally to me. The editor of the film Sreejith Sarang and I have been travelling together for 10 years and so we have that sync. He knows what music to place where.
 
 
 
 I am doing a lot of thrillers in Tamil right now. I have Sarathkumar’s Chennaiyil Oru Naal 2 coming up next and then actor Vimal’s Mannar Vagera. I am also in discussion for a few other projects and looking forward to my Telugu movie, which will start soon. In Malayalam, I have Prithviraj’s   coming up next.
 
