BENGALURU:  , who had called his ministers for a   here on Monday, was in for a shock. For the ministers ended up giving him a list of   that would cost the state exchequer a whopping Rs 16 lakh crore.

 Siddaramaiah, who wants to load the 2017-18 budget with populist schemes, had planned to   to Rs 2 lakh crore. He had been holding a series of consultations with industry representatives, farmers’ organizations, social welfare groups and the 63 government departments on what to include in the March 15 budget. As part of the same consultations, he held a three-hour-long meeting with his council of ministers to finetune the contours of the budget.
 
 Sources told TOI: “At the end of the meeting, it was realized that the government would require Rs 16 lakh crore to implement the suggestions given by the ministers and the departments. This number put the CM in a tight spot as the demand was overshooting the proposed outlay.”
 
 The CM, who has presented the 2016-17 budget (his 11th budget) with an outlay of Rs 1.62 lakh crore, told his ministers: “I was planning to present the budget with an outlay of Rs 2 lakh crore, but what you are asking is too much. We will discuss your proposals and incorporate the best ideas.” Intervening on the issue, health minister K R Ramesh Kumar said, “We will face elections in a year’s time. We need to tell people what we have done and what we are doing.”
 
 The ministers reportedly suggested the CM announce people-friendly programmes that are in sync with contemporary thoughts and citizens’ needs. One of the suggestions that was discussed pertained to inclusion of English as a subject from first standard in schools. The ministers said that students in government schools should be taught English from the initial years so that that they can compete globally.
 
 The meeting also discussed the possibility of failure of rains this year too, and the repercussions it could have on the government. “We fear that the rains may not be adequate this year and that the drought-like situation could worsen. It was decided to commence cloud-seeding (a technique of inducing rain from clouds) in the river-basin areas by May, instead of attempting it in September-October,” said a minister. 
 
