HYDERABAD: The state government’s move on Monday to muzzle cries at   by unleashing cops in civvies to take on protesters was clearly exposed. The bid to engineer a face-off with local residents and not showcase it as government crackdown boomeranged, after several policemen, including a woman inspector of  , were seen in civilian dress holding placards, demanding shifting of the rally ground.

 The issue snowballed into a big political controversy after the Opposition and TJAC alleged that the protests were orchestrated by police and ruling TRS government.
 
 The controversy was kick-started after media personnel noticed Lake police inspector   in mufti, holding a placard demanding shifting of Dharna Chowk. Besides Sridevi, there were several cops in mufti. 
 
 After news channels aired pictures of cops masquerading as protesters, police brass were embarrassed and the issue became a talking point across the state. With the lid blown off, all major political parties came out all guns blazing against police, while the state government cried conspiracy.
 
 “The mufti police tried to create trouble at Dharna Chowk, but still the   programme was held successfully,” said TJAC chairperson M Kodandaram. 
 
 Later in the day, senior police officers went into damage-control mode and vehemently denied allegations that police in civvies tried to orchestrate anti-dharna protests or stoke violence. 
 
 “It’s a false allegation that we triggered protests by infiltrating our men into Indira Park. Even in a hypothetical situation, why will any person in the world use a woman officer who belongs to that zone to stage a protest by holding placard? During a preliminary inquiry, we came to know that some passers-by had handed over the placard and the inspector just held it,” said a senior police officer told TOI. 
 
 Meanwhile, deputy commissioner of police ( ) D Joel Davis said inquiry will be conducted on why inspector Sridevi held a placard. “As DCP of the zone, I briefed police parties and allocated duties. The police party in which the woman inspector figured were specifically told to pick up protesters and keep vigil. The inspector was also present during the briefing. Even to my shock, she was seen holding the placard. The probe will bring the issue to a logical conclusion,” the DCP clarified to TOI.
 
 Earlier, when TJAC wanted to stage protests with unemployed youth with Chalo Indira Park call, Kodandaram was taken into custody in a dramatic manner by Hyderabad police at dawn. His door was forced open and furniture smashed at his Tarnaka residence. During that incident, Hyderabad police claimed they had intelligence inputs of possible violence.
 
