Erode: Cut off from nearby villages by the recent flash flood, residents of Makkampalayam village near Sathyamangalam here on Saturday staged a road roko demanding a   across the forest river in their locality. 

 Narrating their woes, the villagers said the river had swelled in the recent spell of rain and the sole government bus plying on the route had cancelled its service as access roads into the village were swamped by the waters. The villagers said they had to walk at least 25km to reach a nearby town or village.
 
 Makkampalayam village is situated near Kadambur in the Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve (STR) and it has a population of 2,500. The villagers have to go Kadambur to buy essential items, including vegetables and groceries.
 
 The village has a government upper primary school and children have to travel all the way to Kadambur to attend high school. “The students usually take the government bus to school,” the villagers said. Following the flood, they added, the village was cut off from nearby villages, including Sarkaraipallam and Mamarathupallam. “After the flash flood, the government bus cancelled its service. It hasn’t plied on the route for the past two weeks,” said M Narayanasamy, a villager. He also pointed out that the students hadn’t gone to the school for the past 15 days as they were solely dependent on the government bus for commuting.
 
 “In the absence of the bus service, we are also struggling to buy vegetables and groceries to meet our daily needs,” Narayanasamy said.
 
 The villagers also alleged that despite submitting several petitions, government officials hadn’t so far visited the village to take stock of the situation.
 
 Irked, more than 500 villagers, of them 200 student, s blocked road near Kadambur on Saturday morning, demanding a bridge.
 
 When alerted, the Kadambur police and revenue officials rushed to the spot and initiated peace talks. The officials assured the villagers to take necessary steps to construct a bridge across the river at the earliest.
 
 The villagers, subsequently, withdrew the protest. They also threatened to launch a massive protest if the officials didn’t initiate the work soon. 
 
 
