BHOPAL: The Congress show of unity came apart at the seams on the first day of the Budget session in the assembly on Monday. All four Congress heavyweights who were in the race with   for the Leader of Opposition post stayed away from the House.

 Just five days ago, the Congress central leadership publicly vowed to take a united stand against the   regime in the 2018 assembly elections. It seemed then that the Congress unity was stitched together in a hurry. A day later, AICC announced senior MLA and former minister Ajay Singh — son of Arun Singh — as the new LoP. By Monday, the ‘unity’ in the state Congress seemed to have crumbled.
 
 It is tradition that when the LoP comes into the assembly on the first day, he leads the legislative party to the Opposition benches. Ajay came escorted by state   chief Arun Yadav and a handful of MLAs, mainly from the party’s ‘Thakur’ lobby. Conspicuous by their absence were senior Congress leaders Mahendra Singh Kalukhera, Ram Niwas Rawat, Bala Bachchan and Mukesh Nayak — all of whom lost the race for LoP to Ajay Singh.
 
 As soon as the assembly commenced, Speaker Sitasharan Sharma announced he has received notification from AICC that Ajay Singh is the new LoP. Minister for legislative affairs Narottam Mishra congratulated the new LoP and welcomed him “to raise issues on behalf of the people in the assembly”. But when Ajay Singh replied, most of the front benches on either side were empty.
 
 The state Congress had scheduled a meeting at 10am on Monday for the   and office-bearers to meet Ajay Singh. But only three MLAs turned up — Yadvendra Singh, Jaivardhan Singh and Jeetu Patwari. The office-bearers were present in strength, though.
 
 Speaking to TOI, a senior state Congress leader said that factions opposed to AICC general secretary Digvijaya Singh and Ajay Singh led Thakur lobby are furious that CLP in the assembly will be led by a single family. “Deputy Speaker Rajendra Singh is the maternal uncle of Ajay Singh. And the architect behind the Thakur supremacy is Digvijaya Singh, who is Ajay Singh’s ‘mamiya sasur’ (maternal uncle of Ajay Singh’s wife)’. Digvijaya’s niece is married to him. It is like one family will now head  ,” he explained. Brahmins are also angry that their community, which was represented by late Satyadev Katare as LoP, no longer has representation in the state Congress front ranks, the leader added.
 
 
