CHENNAI: If spending a little time and a few hundred rupees to direct sewage to the city's sewerage system instead of storm water drains sounds like the state is bleeding you dry , here's a monetary disincentive that could make it worth your while.

 After failing in several attempts to keep   drains -and, thereby , its rivers, lakes and other water bodies -clean, the state government on Monday increased fines to up to Rs 2 lakh for letting untreated sewage onto the streets or the city's storm water drain network.
 
 The government introduced a bill to enhance the penalty, which follows the Madras high court expressing strong views on a 2015 petition by non-government organisation Change India, which drew its attention to il legal sewerage connections to storm water drains.
 
 A bill municipal administration minister S P Velumani moved to amend the  , 1919 specified a “graded penalty mechanism“ based on the nature of construction in question: ordinary (ground plus first floor), special (more than two floors) and multi-storey buildings (exceeding four floors). The basic fine is `5,000 for ordinary residential buildings and `10,000 for ordinary commercial buildings. The fines for owners of multistorey structures range between `1 lakh (residential) and `2 lakh (commercial).
 
 The first bench of the high court said the penalty of `100 was a pittance and held the same view of the state's proposed penalty of up to `2,000.“The state must forthwith take action to incorporate penalties [that] are punitive in character to deter non-compliance,“ the bench said.
 
  hope that the increased penalties will force recalcitrant house owners and establishments to pay Metrowater for sewerage connections and storm water drains will carry only rainwater. “The court suggested a penalty of between `5,000 to several lakhs of rupees,“ Greater Chennai Corporation commissioner D Karthikeyan said.
 
 “A sewer connection can be obtained by paying Metrowater `100, the lowest [cost for cities] in the country . Why should illegalities continue?“ Activists say the court should not confine the amendment to the Chennai City Municipal Corporation Act, but extend its provisions to other municipal laws to ensure that the entire state is covered. “Illegally letting out sewage is a violation of the Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavengers Act, 2013, as municipal workers are forced to clean the sewers and drains, which is prohibited under law,“ Change India director A Narayanan said. “I hope the enforcement agencies take action [on the amendment] in letter and spirit.“
 
 In coordination with other departments, the corporation had in 2015 identified 7,720 illegal connections that let out untreated sewage into storm water drains and pose a major public health risk.
 
 
