To job aspirants in Phaltan, Satara, Dhanaji Jadhav was simply a godsend due to his ability to ‘train’ and ‘send’ them to the army — one of the most sought-after government jobs because of its security and post-retirement benefits.

 For the past eight to nine years, Jadhav has been running   in Phaltan with such a huge reputation that even students from other states would enrol themselves with the institute for that dream job with the army. However, till his arrest on Sunday, the local people were completely in the dark about his leaking entrance papers, as he would share the questions in Pune and not in his hometown.
 
 In a raid conducted by a team from the crime branch of the Thane police in Pune, during the wee hours of Sunday, they managed to nab nine people, including Jadhav, who police claimed to be one of the kingpins in the army recruitment paper leak scam. Jadhav and others have been taken to Thane for further interrogation.
 
 A senior police officer from Thane police on condition of anonymity told Pune Mirror, “Though Jadhav’s academy is situated in his native place in Satara, he would often visit Pune city, some 120 km away, in order to embolden his network with the army personnel working in the city. With that network, he not only managed to get questions of the entrance exams in advance from the army personnel, but also managed to get some contacts of the aspiring candidates, whom he would trap to extract money.”
 
 Pune is the headquarters of the army’s Southern Command. The police officer added, “When our team carried out the raid on the marriage hall in Phursungi area of Hadapsar, we found over 70 candidates to whom he was citing the answers. When we inquired with those candidates, we found that while many of them were from Maharashtra, but some had also come to Pune from other states like Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Rajasthan. Primary investigation has revealed that Jadhav would travel from Phaltan to Pune to meet these aspiring candidates. He would crack a deal with them where he would demand around Rs 3 lakh from each of them.”
 
 According to the Thane police officials, Jadhav and other culprits running the scam would give some portion of the money to the army personnel for leaking the details of the exam papers. However, back home in Phaltan, local residents were totally oblivious about these activities that Jadhav was undertaking. They considered him a person of repute, who was running the academy to help youngsters join the army.
 
 Aba Pawar, one of the local residents, told Pune Mirror, “From the last several years, we have been seeing activities of his academy and we thought that he was working hard for youngsters. He was even providing physical training for aspiring candidates in Phaltan for the last many years, but we never thought that he was running this academy to extract money from candidates.”
 
 After Jadhav was nabbed from Pune, Satara police also visited Jadhav’s academy for an inquiry. Inspector Prakash Dhas, in charge of Phaltan police station, told Pune Mirror, “After we came to know that Jadhav has been arrested, we immediately visited his academy. But, it was locked. Usually, there are 50-60 students present at the academy but when we visited the place, we did not find a single student there. We also visited Jadhav’s house where we found his parents but they claimed that they had no idea about his activities and they also said that they are not interested in meeting him again.”
 
 
 ¦ From the last several years, we have been seeing activities of his academy and we thought that he was working hard for youngsters. He was even providing physical training for aspiring candidates in Phaltan for the last many years, but we never thought that he was running this academy to extract money from candidates
 
 — Aba Pawar, a resident of Phaltan
 
