Mumbai:   in India could soon be a reality. The Centre is likely to permit it by August-end.

 “We’re awaiting clearance from the  , which is changing a few of its rules, after which the Union cabinet’s clearance will be needed,” said Lalit Gupta, joint  ,  . “International airlines are in talks with the aviation ministry. Currently, they have to switch off Wi-Fi in the Indian airspace (where inflight internet is banned on security grounds).” Gupta said Indian carriers like Jet Airways and SpiceJet are slated to take deliveries of Wi-Fi-fitted Boeing 737 MAX by mid-2018.
 
 About 70 airlines across the world offer inflight internet, letting passengers email, livestream, use social media, download movies and even make calls. These include carriers that fly into India like Air France, KLM, Lufthansa, British Airways, Singapore Airlines, Emirates, Etihad and Qatar Airways. In India, airlines like Jet Airways and Vistara offer a library of preloaded content downloadable onto devices by linking to the aircraft’s non-internet Wi-Fi. 
 
 SpiceJet will give the facility by June-end. It must be understood that Wi-Fi simply is wireless local area networking.
 
 According to a recent study by global consultant Roland Berger, flyers in increasing numbers want online access and choose flights accordingly. “On-board internet will serve as an additional sales channel through which customers will be able to shop, purchase flight upgrades, or spend frequent flyer miles. In total, airlines could earn online revenue of approximately EUR 1.20 per passenger on short-haul routes, and about EUR 3.60 on long-haul ones. The income will come not only from monetizing paid-for Wi-Fi access, but also from targeted shopping offers, advertising and sponsoring,” said the study.
 
 Inmarsat, a British satellite telecom company, predicts that over half the world’s aircraft will be equipped for in-flight Wi-Fi within six years. It is set to become a billion-dollar revenue sector by 2020. Inmarsat’s 2016 survey of more than 9,000 passengers across 27 countries found that 92% wanted inflight broadband, 83% chose airlines based on internet availability and 54% wanted to stay online over a meal.
 
 
