AHMEDABAD: IM operative  , who has been sentenced to death for the 2013 Dilsukhnagar blasts in Hyderabad, played with explosives from when he was five. Crime branch sources said close relatives of Bhatkal worked at a quarry near Bhatkal in Karnataka.

  “As a child, Yasin used to go there and gained a knowledge of explosives used at the quarry,” added a crime branch official.
 
 Crime branch sources said during his interrogation, Bhatkal had said that they wanted to avenge the   in the   and hence chose places like hospitals, to cause the maximum damage.
 
 “Bhatkal also confessed that in 2005 he had sneaked out of Dubai to go to Pakistan and receive terror training. He was received by one Mustufa in Pakistan and was taken to remote areas by men who looked like army personnel, to train him in the use of explosives for 50 days. He was escorted around by the ISI of Pakistan,” a senior crime branch official said.
 
 Crime branch officials said the July 2008 serial blasts in Ahmedabad and the failed attempts in Surat were the first of the assignment given to Bhatkal by IM commanders Riyaz and Iqbal Bhatkal.
 
 “After landing in Ahmedabad, alleged SIMI member   took Bhatkal to a rented premises in Mohammadi Society of Danilimda. Bhatkal made 30 boat-shaped bombs out of silver wood which he had brought along with him,” said a senior crime branch official.
 
 On July 18, Bhatkal left for Bharuch, where he was received by Fasl-eRehman. Tanveer Pathan, Fasl-e-Rehman and he left for Surat, to recce sites to plant bombs, added a crime branch source. “They identified Kapad Market in Surat but then realized that there are a large number of Muslims there. They then shifted their plans to  , to kill Hindus,” said a crime branch official. However, due faulty timer chips, the bombs did not explode, saving many innocent lives in Surat.
 
 Bhatkal, Azamgarh module executed July 2008 serial blasts
 
 Bhatkal told investigators that the Azamgarh module of IM, led by Atif Amin, who was later killed in the encounter at Batla House in Delhi, the Bhatkal module led by Riyaz Bhatkal and some members of SIMI from Gujarat executed the July 2008 serial blasts in Ahmedabad.
 
 Silver wood idea came from a Hollywood film
 
 Crime branch sources said that Bhakal said he had once seen boat-shaped bombs being made out of silver wood in a Hollywood film. “He made bombs from the same type of wood, which is soft,” added a crime branch official.
 
