AGRA: The  , which has started sending notices to people at their homes for speeding on  , has decided to   of people who have been challaned more than four times. So far, 11,634 such people have been found, of which more than 500 are from Agra, according to  . 

 This data was presented at a meeting on Wednesday when transport officials from Agra and YEIDA (Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority) were present to discuss the growing number of accidents on the expressway.
 
  Anil Kumar, Agra regional transport officer (RTO), enforcement, said, "We have started issuing notices. It takes time to locate the addresses where the vehicles are registered." 
 
 Ajay Mishra, ARTO, enforcement, said, "It was difficult to get hold of every speeding vehicle even when transport officials were on duty at the expressway. Many drivers were not aware of the gravity of the situation, how over-speeding has made the expressway prone to accidents. It has been decided that if any vehicle is found with more than four challans, the transport department will suspend the driving licence immediately."
 
 In an earlier report, Kumar had said, "We have tied up with toll tax officials to provide us the complete list of speeders. Once the list is received we can find addresses of the vehicle owners and send notices to their homes to pay their fines at the transport office within a stipulated time."
 
 Officials said that the defaulter will be charged under Section 304A (causing death due to negligence) and fined between Rs 300 and Rs 500. "Sometimes when we inspect the vehicles we find that other traffic rules have been violated like driving licence was not renewed, fitness certificate was not there and others. In those cases defaulters are fined more than Rs 1,000 each," Mishra said.
 
  From June 1 to 21, 807 challans were issued on the expressway for speeding, out of which 109 vehicles were from Agra. In the four and a half years since its opening, the expressway has seen the death of 548 people in 4,076 accidents, with 2016 reporting the highest number of accidents in a year. 
 
