KOLKATA: Age may be just a number, but keeping up with youth is no child’s — or, more appropriately, an elderly person’s — game. And, if you are a   looking to connect with readers decades younger than you, there’s no choice but to immerse yourself in the intricacies of the most serious love of your target reader’s life: technology.

 Not willing to let the tech revolution pass them by, several leading authors based in the city have taken the bull by its horns. From social media to video chat, and from ditching longhand writing in favour of typing out the latest novel, and even looking at page design, it seems they have become quite adept at adapting themselves to this brave new world.
 
 At 82, Shirshendu Mukhopadhyay hardly has friends of his age. They have either passed on or are “too old and infirm” for the kind of boisterous adda that can satisfy him. So, these days he is always surrounded by kids and young to middle-aged adults, who keep him, as he says, on his toes. “Unless you are the WhatsApping, smartphone-flaunting, selfie-happy kind, you will not be included in their gang, and I don’t want to be left out,” he laughs.
 
 Mukhopadhyay belongs to a time when lanterns were the only source of light for children to study by, in the evenings. So, when the radio made its entry, people thought nothing could be more wondrous than this. “The world didn’t know then that one day we would be able to instantly chat with anyone across the globe in real time for free or give vent to our self-expression in virtual space and feel instantly gratified by capturing the eyeballs of our ‘friends’. God alone knows what will follow next,” he says, and it’s easy to see he’s immensely excited about the change he sees around him. In fact, he is happy that this change has impacted him and made him a learner, eager to experiment.
 
 “I make full use of my smartphone,” he confesses. “Of course, there were initial glitches. You will have to appreciate that hand-eye coordination, at my age, is not the same as that of a college-goer’s,” he jokes, showing off the innumerable WhatsApp messages he sends and receives in a day. “These smartphones are simply irresistible, no waiting for someone to photograph you anymore. Go ahead and click your selfie and post it for the world to ‘like’! I’m loving it,” he chuckles. He acknowledges the narcissism in this, but “as long as you are able to keep your head, it’s fine”.
 
 Naturally, all this gets reflected in his writing as well. “Literature is a reflection of life around you. You cannot think in another time zone and present a story, unless of course it is a period story, to your reader who is living in the vortex of today. S/he will not be able to identify with that story and fail to appreciate its context. So, if I am using a smartphone to upscale my communication and am agreeable to the fact that it’s a wired-up world today, it should reflect in my stories too,” Mukhopadhyay adds.
 
 Though writer Samaresh Majumdar, at 75, is a tad younger than Mukhopadhyay, he admits he is not as savvy as the latter, but that does not mean he doesn’t appreciate the benefits of technology or doesn’t make it work to promote his works. He has a website (www.samaresmazumdar.com), that has details about his life, his style, his books and, most importantly, his mobile phone number for anyone to connect with him, either online or through a voice call. “You ask me something about computers, and all you’ll find that I’m less than a novice, but I have worked around it,” he admits. “There’s a fan who maintains my website under my supervision. I love the way my website is helping me to stay in touch with my readers virtually.” He gets hundreds of fan mails, queries about what he is writing or is planning to write, his opinions on different issues. “I answer each of these, though I don’t key in the answers myself. I dictate them to this fan who lovingly types them in. She keeps alerting me every now and then about my pending online work and also suggests what I should be doing to update my website. In today’s world, if you have overseas readers, this is the best way to stay in touch. I realise I cannot change myself much and will continue to write in longhand instead of using the computer, but I would be a fool not to appreciate the benefits of technology,” he adds.
 
 As you enter the spacious living room at ‘Bhalobasha’, the heritage residence of writer Nabanita Dev Sen, you hear a peal of laughter. The tech-savvy 80-year-old is on a video chat via her smartphone with her foster daughter, Srabasti Basu. She loves doing this in the late afternoons when she is taking a break from the huge pressure of writing for Puja numbers. Soon, she has bid Srabasti goodbye and has graduated to her elder daughter, Antara, who lives in Delhi with her child. “I just cannot do without talking to my grandchild at least once a day. Alas, I can see her growing only on the screen of my mobile phone,” she says. Dev Sen has given up writing in longhand and has graduated completely to the computer. She has a desktop, three laptops, and an iPad to help her write. Then there are her smartphones, loaded with apps, which make her life as easy as possible in the midst of her health complications that keep her movement restricted these days. “Since I am making use of technology all the time, it is natural that it will creep into my stories as well. Stories cannot be anything but a take from what is happening around you,” Deb Sen says.
 
 But she’s a tad worried about the flip side of the space that virtual reality brings with it. “While on one hand we are getting to read some wonderful literary efforts of young writers on Facebook, for example, there are many, who are just about writing anything to attract attention and are satisfied by showing off the number of ‘likes’ their posts can fetch. They start thinking they are great writers just because they have a band of ‘friends’ to pamper them. I think a lot of young people are simply wasting their time on social media, and that is worrisome,” she says. She has 5,000 Facebook friends and feels quite out of breath at times. “I have reduced my Facebook time these days and find myself more of an observer than an active participant.”
 
 It was back pain that forced author Bani Basu to switch over from writing by hand to the computer. She was a bit sceptical at first but gradually found out what a relief it could be for a person who believed in making several drafts before finalizing her story. “I would make so many corrections in my drafts that they would really look untidy; it gave me so much relief to see my clean drafts on screen, irrespective of the number of times I edited my stories,” she explains. “I could even make out what the printed page would look like, how many lines I am accommodating in a page, etc. Today, I no longer write longhand and my handwriting has really become bad because I spend so much time typing on the computer,” she laughs. Basu is moderately active on social media, catching up with friends who are invariably fans. And then there’s Skype, which she counts among her blessings too.
 
 At 76, author Shekhar Basu is just as comfortable booking an app cab or logging on to Google Hangouts as he is with writing longhand. “Today I cannot imagine my life without the internet,” he says. “It has become so easy to get any information on almost anything. This helps to enrich what I write. At my age, going to a library physically is not always possible,” he reasons. Basu has countless friends on social media from across the world, many of whom are Bengalis abroad who are active in the literary world. He contributes in magazines that are run by such enthusiasts, participates in meaningful creative dialogue and gets debates and discussions going. “Skype is a lifeline for me because it helps me stay in touch with my sons in California and Mumbai. Again, WhatsApp is so convenient and cheap that I find myself talking to someone or the other across the world through my fingertips all the time,” he laughs.
 
 Mani Shankar Mukherjee (Shankar), the seniormost author of them, too is observing the change with interest. Though at his age he is trying his best to grapple with technology, he feels it is a welcome change. “I belong to another world, another time when Bengalis looked at technology with a lot of suspicion,” he says. “We have had a heritage of suspicion when it came to any change. We rejected tap water because the washer was made of leather and kept drinking pond water despite cholera; we thought any kind of vaccine could make one impotent/infertile and we had nightlong strikes against the computer, not very long ago. Today, our lives are ruled by it. And then there’s the mobile, which we started off by saying are rich men’s toys. Now, I think it is the greatest leveller,” he signs off.
 
 
