RUDRAPUR: A day after a 16-year-old boy was found hanging in a police outpost in Udham Singh Nagar, Uttarakhand, protests have become louder and angrier. In “deep trauma and shock”, the family of  , the dead teenager, has now said that the rope which the boy “used” to hang himself was actually part of an exhibit from another case and had been kept in a sealed container in the police station.

 Asked about the allegation, SSP (Udham Singh Nagar) Avodai Senthil K Raj S had an explanation which Ziyauddin’s friends and relatives refused to buy. The officer said, “The rope wasn’t an exhibit. It is a jute rope which was recently used by police for barricading on the occasion of Shivatri and thereafter kept in police outpost.
 
 The constable in-charge left the chowki for 10 minutes during which time the boy found the rope, saw a hook in the ceiling and hanged himself.”
 
 Mohammad Yamin, the class 10 boy’s father, asked, “Tell me how can a frightened, nervous boy dash out of his cell, catch hold of a hook in the ceiling, tie a noose around it and hang himself all in 10 minutes? Is it even possible? We want the   to investigate this case. We want to know who killed my boy.”
 
 Though the SSP insisted that “initial findings” have showed the death to be a case of suicide and that police are awaiting the postmortem report, four cops have been suspended and a case of murder has been registered against nine people, including six policemen.
 
 torture”, resulting in his death. Activists have also written a letter to Uttarakhand CM Harish Rawat and demanded a CBI probe. Ziyauddin Raza, found “hanging” inside the Katoratal police chowki of Kashipur on Tuesday, had been picked up four days ago and was being interrogated in connection with the alleged abduction of a minor girl who was later found in Lucknow.
 
 Yamin also alleged that police initially placed his son’s body in a hospital, labelling it an “unidentified victim”. Later he was shown in official records to have committed suicide when protests erupted.
 
 Protesters have demanded Rs 25 lakh in compensation for the boy’s family and an independent probe into the incident. Salim Ahmad, a resident from the victim’s village, said, “The claims of police are hard to believe. How can the whole station be left unmanned when you have an alleged abduction culprit in lock up?” Taking suo motu cognisance of the matter, Uttarakhand State Commission for Protection of Child Rights had given 72 hours to the US Nagar SSP to investigate the reason behind the death and present its report before the commission. Deputy inspector general, Kumaon, Ajay Rautela said, “After the boy’s death, a lawsuit has been filed against nine persons from the department.”
 
 The accused policemen have, meanwhile, gone absconding even as a magisterial inquiry has also been ordered.
 
 Ziyauddin’s death is not the first in the custody of US Nagar police. In 2015, one Jaswinder Singh Jassa had died in similar circumstances at Kichha police station. Five police officials are facing trial for Jassa’s murder.
 
