Renault Sport   Team may not have had a perfect start to the season in Melbourne, with   out of the points in 11th, and Jolyon Palmer retiring with brake issues, but managing director Cyril Abiteboul says the squad is still on-course for a future world championship assault.

 The team certainly has the heritage, beginning life in the F1 pit lane as Toleman in 1981, and moving through Benetton, Renault for the first time – securing the constructors’ and drivers' titles with Fernando Alonso in 2005 and 2006 – then Lotus, and back to Renault again last year.
 
 As an engine supplier, it's won a further 10 world titles, including four-straight with Red Bull Racing and Sebastian Vettel from 2010 to 2013, taking its total to 12 crowns – second only to Ferrari on the all-time list with 16.
 
 Its F1 operation straddles the English Channel; the race team based in Enstone, England, the power unit operation in Viry-Châtillon, near Paris, in France. 
 
 But there has been plenty of work to do in rebuilding and restructuring since it re-purchased the cash-strapped Lotus team late in 2015, returning the Enstone facility to its fold. Abiteboul, though, is happy with how it’s progressing.
 
 "It's really positive. The best example of how positive it is that yesterday we were very disappointed not to be in Q3, while last year we were disappointed when we were not to be in Q2. So that says it all," Abiteboul said.
 
 "So clearly there is a feeling after yesterday, the confirmation that we have done a good jump ahead over the winter, which is what we wanted to do. 
 
 "We also have the confirmation that we are racing in a group that is a very tight and competitive group against Toro Rosso, Force India, Haas, ourselves. We also have confirmation that our engine did a good jump over the winter and that's an engine that's not only used by us, but by two other teams which are facing their own difficulties, but clearly the engine is where it’s supposed to be."
 
 To continue moving forward, the team needs more people; but Abiteboul says it must be done properly if it’s to again challenge the top teams.
 
 "Formula 1 is very much a resource race. You need to have the capability, but you also need the capacity to be able to react, to manufacture more parts and to keep up with the development rate," he said.
 
 "We will continue to grow. Right now we are 600, [but] we were 475 when we bought the team and we are targeting to be 670 by the end of the year. So it's a healthy increase. I'm not trying to match Red Bull and Mercedes, because it will be just unsustainable and not healthy to have such growth. 
 
 "We're thinking about – in a very structured manner, and very planned manner – how we will be able to, at some point, be in a position to compete against these guys. As we grow in size we also think to try to be smart and be able to compete and to punch above our weight."
 
 To ensure that the effort is kept razor-sharp, and moving in the right direction, the team has brought on four-time F1 World Champion Alain Prost as a special advisor – to assist both management and drivers.
 
 "Obviously the objective if you are a constructor in Formula One, you want to be at the top, or you want to be world champion, but it’s quite a difficult way to do it," Prost said.
 
 "What's important is to be competitive. For us, it's only the first year of the new team, and the most important thing is to show the progression – and also for us, for inside, not only for outside. That mean, we create the correct environment, to be competitive and to be a winning team.”
 
 The Professor knows very well what it takes to run a racing team, having had his own Prost GP squad from 1997 to 2001 – while he’s also working with the brand in Formula E with Renault e.Dams. And he says structuring a squad in today's F1 has become more of a management game than ever.
 
 "In 1984, the winning team was McLaren –with the TAG-Porsche engine and we were from 60 to 80 people. So, it’s a long time ago," said Prost, one of the sport's greatest-ever drivers, an icon with four crowns and 51 race wins between 1980 and 1993, his battle with teammate Ayrton Senna at McLaren legendary.
 
 "But when I had a racing team myself, when I bought it we were 65 people. And with 65 people you know everybody. You arrive at the factory, and you can say hello to everybody, you know everything.
 
 "We went to 200 people, and at 200 people it's already another step. But from 200 to 1000, it is obviously another category. It doesn't mean it’s more difficult, but it has to be well organised with good people in all kind of departments."
 
 To see the management theory in practice, you only need step into the F1 team’s protected inner sanctum at a Grand Prix – the garage, where only the super VIPs are invited, and then only session by session.
 
 Inside, the squad works like clockwork with engineers, mechanics and specific specialists organised to maximum effect. 
 
 For any session, it’s all military precision as the mechanics stand around the car like lieutenants waiting for the call. As the engineer gives the signal to go out, the power unit is fired-up, the number one mechanic signals for the tyre blankets to be taken off, and the car is out the door in double-quick time.
 
 For the world outside the paddock, though, the drivers are always the focus – and Renault has brought in German Nico Hülkenberg as its charismatic team leader, alongside young British driver Jolyon Palmer.
 
 And, while it was important for the brand to have a key driver for it to build its team around, it was also a crucial move for the German – who has not quite hit the heights since joining F1 with Williams in 2010, fourth place his best result.
 
 "It was very important to me, I've always wanted to be with a manufacturer in the long-term, building something up together," Hülkenberg said.
 
 "I see this as a very good opportunity for my career. I believe that Renault can provide me with a competitive car in the future and that’s what a driver needs – and what a driver’s looking for."
 
 There's plenty of potential in the years ahead, with Renault Sport building and organising its army for F1's development war – an arms race opened up by the sport’s new technical regulations. 
 
 "We need to plan because we know that we will have to be a bit more efficient than the other teams," says managing director Cyril Abiteboul.
 
 "The only way that we can tackle them is by planning and the way we are deploying our resources, so that's what we are doing right now and we are in line with the plan and that’s good news so far."
 
 
