Remember your regular day at school? Lugging a heavy backpack, you’d head to your classroom and arrange your textbooks according to the day’s timetable, or quickly scribble down homework from a friend’s book, until the teacher arrived. School life was as simple as that. Now picture this: Today, students arrive in their classrooms, switch on their  , log onto the school’s secured network and check whether there are any messages or notes shared by their teachers — all this, at the click of a button. Welcome to the world of digital classrooms!

 Now, traditional black boards are replacing interactive  , which are connected to the computer. Institutes are giving students e-homework, which can be submitted online. Many schools are also updating parents through digital tools — unlike printed circulars and notices, which could be misplaced, the chances of parents missing out on important announcements have greatly reduced. From attendance to assignments, schools are going digital and how!
 
 
 With digital being the buzzword of the season, education institutes are also increasing their Digital Quotient (DQ). Avnita Bir, director-principal, RN Podar School, Santacruz, shares the reason behind this rising trend, “Unlike textbooks, where you have to stick to the syllabus, teachers can now create their own content with the help of audio-visual aids. Because the curriculum is uploaded online, it is available 24X7 to the students. If a teacher is unable to attend a class, she can still video conference and conduct the lecture.” To ensure that students do not lose touch with long form answers and writing, schools conduct exams both offline and online. Neti Srinivasan, from Ryan group of institutions, adds, “Online exams are conducted for multiple-choice questions. The results of these are made available to the teachers instantly, and they can immediately look into the child’s problem areas.”
 
 Smart classrooms, which were earlier limited to private-run educational institutes, have now become a feature in municipal schools too, thanks to the results they achieved. Mahesh Palkar, education officer, BMC, says, “We launched the   programme in August 2016 and it has been implemented in approximately 50 civic schools in Mumbai so far. With the help of Corporate Social Responsibility activities and NGOs, more and more schools will go digital.” In the coming months,   may also pass a budget so that hundreds of municipal schools in the city get e-classrooms.
 
 
 Interactive methods are visually appealing to children and get better results than the traditional chalk-and-duster model of teaching. Zeeshan Sheikh, a teacher at Shivaji Nagar BMC School in Govandi, which was the one of the first municipal schools to install a digital classroom, conceptualised online lessons for his students. He says, “I realised that to teach kids today, we need to modernise their lessons and incorporate   to pique their interest levels and get them more involved in academics. Videos and presentations help kids grasp concepts, especially science and math, from the first lesson itself. Students remember and process information faster and more effectively. Even attendance has increased substantially, as lectures have become more interesting!”
 
 To a significant extent, the teaching-learning process can be customised to individual students as per their level of understanding. Srinivasan adds, “Imagine a group of students from Mumbai working with those from schools in Germany and Canada on real-time projects through the internet. They not only learn different perspectives on the topic, but also understand diverse cultures, languages and teamwork.”
 
 
 With paperless homework, paper wastage has reduced to a great extent. Instead of submitting hardcopy prints of their assignments, they can now directly email them to their teacher or upload them on a common server. It has also reduced the number of books children carry to school. A few state board schools have even uploaded textbooks with the updated curriculum, on students’ tablets.
 
 
 Digital classrooms come with their share of shortcomings. With WiFi facilities, parents are concerned kids may access content on the internet which they shouldn’t. Also, students could plagiarise online assignments. However, Neti shares that schools are taking precautions, like installing firewalls. “Teachers also have a class management app that allows them to keep a tab on what the child is surfing. We train teachers in handling a digital class and hold sessions for parents to help them understand the possible problems. Finally, students are counselled on how to handle distractions and make the best use of their devices. In some schools, a username and password is issued to students and parents, who log on to the portal to access any study material or 
 communication,” he says. 
 
 
  
