Pleas, protests, prayers and candlelight vigils — in the past few weeks, Mumbaikars have tried everything to prevent the cutting down of thousands of   in the city to make way for the Metro III project. Many citizens were left teary-eyed after several trees were hacked in   recently. For the uninitiated, the Bombay High Court had granted a stay on cutting of trees following a PIL filed by residents of Churchgate, Hutatma Chowk and Cuffe Parade, alleging that 5,000 trees were going to be cut for construction. But early this month, it vacated its stay. But another PIL was filed, alleging that trees that were not listed for hacking also came under the axe. Now, the HC has asked   Metro Rail Corporation (MMRCL) for a reply and a hearing for the same is scheduled today. 

 
 The sight of trees being reduced to lifeless branches and leaves has shocked not just environmentalists and tree-lovers in the city but also its residents. And to protest against this ruthless felling, they took to the streets. This week, citizens held a candle march and many others assembled in Churchgate for a peaceful   protest. Many people hugged trees so that workers couldn’t cut them down. There were also others like activist Abhay Bhavishi and IT professional Aarti Tamore who climbed up on trees and balanced on its branches to register their protest. The cops had to get them down and they were detained at Marine Drive Police Station. Actor-director Kaizaad Kotwal, a SoBo resident who was a part of these protests, tells BT, “Even as we speak, there are many old trees waiting in line to be ruthlessly chopped. We used to have bunch of trees outside our building, but now, it’s completely barren. This sort of cutting down of trees is criminal on many levels — ethical and moral —especially when we know there is a way to build this metro without harming the environment. It’s called Nominal Group Technique (NGT) and many other countries have done it. Why haven’t we adopted the most eco-friendly way of doing it? We aren’t asking the authorities to not construct the metro, but there are ways in which you can replant these trees. Progress should go hand-in-hand with preserving the environment. What we forget here in Mumbai is that every tree supports an eco-system of not just animals but also human beings — newspaperwallahs and labourers sit under trees. I feel sorry for those who are going to inherit this city in the next 20 years.”
 
 According to reports, MMRCL has not acquired all the permissions to begin work on the project. Kaizaad says that they don’t have the Coastal Regulation Zone clearance for the Churchgate metro station. Zoru Bhathena, a citizen activist, shares, “This 23,000-crore project is absolutely ill-planned. The reason why so many people have come forth and raised their voices against the ruthless cutting down of trees is because the Metro III project is an underground one. The authorities have plans to   5,000 trees, of which more than 500 have already been destroyed. But they have only replanted about 100 trees till date. If you cut trees where it’s necessary, it’s understandable, but the mindless chopping of whatever little green cover that 
 we have in the city is not acceptable.”
 
 
 Advocate Godfrey Pimenta, trustee, Watchdog Foundation, believes it’s time Mumbaikars stand united against this issue. He says, “What we have realised from our continued protests is that the government is least concerned about the cutting down of so many trees across the city. Only the Aarey project has not received permission, but rest of the 33 stations (or locations) have been granted permission by BMC. Unless and until there is a mass movement by citizens, there will be no impact. We are trying to reach out to more people through social media so they can come forward and save the green cover of their city.”
 
 
 
 
 
