PUNE: Being the city's colonial cousin,   is young, just 200 years old when compared to Pune where the past stretches to 858AD, but it certainly is among the older of the 62 cantonments in India.
Pune Cantonment was an open area before the British wrested the city from the Peshwas nearly 200 years ago after defeating the Peshwa in the Battle of Khadki in 1817.
 
 It was home to most soldiers under the command of Mahadji Shinde, the legendary Maratha general, perhaps the only Indian to have defeated the English in the Battle of Wadgaon., and bring them to the negotiating table as well.
 
 Present-day Pune Cantonment was also the home and estate of some of the most important men in the Peshwa court, most notably the vast mansion of the city prefectKotwalGhashiram Savaldas, till he met his violent end in 1791. But these areas were outside what was considered the municipal limits of Pune, beyond the seventeen peths.
 
 The   , after years of watchingand abettingthe weakening of the Peshwas in the city , finally met their opponents in a decisive battle in November 1817 at Khadki. And despite being outnumbered nearly nine-toone, Mountstuart Elphinstone, a Scotsman and former British resident at the Peshwas' court, engineered a rout of the Peshwas on their home turf.
 
 While they expropriated almost all of the Peshwas' properties in the city areas, the East India Company realised that they will not be able to accommodate their burgeoning army in those precincts.
 
 So they looked eastward, just beyond what constituted the old city.
 
 According to the Pune Cantonment Board ( ) records, the board itself was established right after the Battle of Khadki in November 1817, with Mali, Munjeri,   (anglicization of Wanavdi), and Ghorpuri (now Ghorpadi) being the four villages that the British zeroed in on to build facilities for soldiers, like living quarters, medical facilities, integrated shopping and living spaces for natives -presentday Shivaji market -and a shooting range.
 
 This was well before the main city got its first municipal body . The   was set up by the British in 1858, and it became a municipal corporation in 1950.
 
 That shooting range lends its name to a present-day neighbourhood, Golibar Maidan, although the original range no longer remains.
 
 Now, even though they had selected the villages and fixed limits as to where their Cantonment would stand, the Company did not actually have possession of all of the land they had identified, until at least 1827, according to Jaymala Diddee and Samita Gupta in Pune: Queen of the Deccan.
 
 They did take over Peshwa property in these areas, most notably Ghashiram's mansionand probably his prisonon the present-day   area, and destroyed much of the original architecture. These days, most of that area is an army medical stores facility, and the rest of it has parsonages, bungalows, and intersected by roads.
 
 But a sticking point in the setting up of the Cantonment was the Wanowrie area, which, till date, is one of the most crucial areas of the precinct, with housing facilities and army medical establishments dating back pre-independence.
 
 Most of the land was still owned by the descendants of Mahadji Shinde, and the East India Company had to negotiate hard, and ultimately pay a handsome sum to the Shinde family (the Scindias of Gwalior). Only then were the boundaries of Pune Cantonment complete in 1827.
 
