NASHIK: Nashik would be the first city in the state with a helipad on top of a tower in the heart of the city that would enable safe and secure landing as well as take-off of choppers ferrying VVIPs like Prime Minister, chief minister, among others.

 This facility will come up at the sprawling campus of police headquarters that the department has decided to give a facelift. The city police have finalised the blueprint for the state-of-the-art project that has been sent to the state government for approval. And it is optimistic that the state government would approve the plan since Nashik is chief minister  ' adopted city.
 
 Interestingly, the city police's plan about the helipad comes at a time when questions are being raised about safety of several makeshift helipads used for landing and take-off of choppers. The chief minister has survived three chopper mishaps in the recent past.
 
 The entire re-development of the headquarters would be done in two phases and the tower to have rooftop helipad would be built in the second phase. "Once the project is approved at the state government level, the work for the project shall kick off before  ," confirmed city police commissioner  .
 
 Once complete, the Nashik police headquarters would be the most hi-tech area of the city with as many as 10 22-storeied buildings that would redefine the sky-line of Nashik city. These structures would be used for residential purposes of city police fraternity.
 
 This new project will be set up on the 55-acre of the police headquarters. Apart from the residential towers there would also be non-residential towers.
 
 Among other things the police headquarters will have a swimming pool, an underground firing range, state-of-the-art playground, running track, etc. A special tower would be erected for landing and take-off of VIP choppers.
 
 Currently, a large number of police personnel are residing in the decade-old police quarters that are now in a dilapidated condition. However, still a large number of police personnel prefer to live close to the police commissioner office as it falls in the heart of the city. The plan is to construct over 1,000 flats of different areas which can be allotted to the police officers and personnel as per their rank.
 
 Nashik police would be the ones, who would reside in the loftiest towers of the city as currently, there are no buildings above 12-storeys in Nashik city. The police official said that as per new   rules, 22-storey buildings were very much possible, for which they were going for.
 
 The new police headquarters will be convenient for a large number of police personnel as it falls in the heart of the city. Police personnel are also eager to get a quarter at the police headquarters near the commissionerate due to the convenience of market places, schools, colleges, bus stands, among others. 
 
