Times News Network

 Chandigarh: A local court on Tuesday stayed the recent tuition   by Mount Carmel School, Sector 47, Chandigarh, bringing smiles on the faces of parents.
 
 As many as 141 parents of students had filed a petition against the fee hike on March 23. The parents stated that during the parent-teacher meeting on February 4, they were shocked to find a notice on the school board stating that the fee structure for the 2017-2018 session starting from April had almost doubled from Rs 2,700 per month to Rs 4,975 per month for nursery to class XII.
 
 The court also declared UT administration and director school education as ex parte as no counsel appeared on their behalf in court. The counsel for Mount Carmel School sought more time to but the court declined the request. The court gave time to school to file its reply by April 5.
 
 The school was charging Rs 2,700 monthly fee for classes IV to VIII. Earlier too, the school had increased the fee, however, the raise was marginal. Parents said merging of the annual charges had led to increase in tuition fee by more than 40%
 
 The plea further stated that the parents were later misguided by the school and told that the hike was only around 10%. The petitioners added the fee hike was a clear violation of the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) circular, dated June 3, 2016. “The fee should be commensurate with the facilities provided by the institution and no such extra facility has been provided or projected to justify such a fee hike,” the petition stated, adding that the “...the fee hike in the monthly tuition fee made by the school is illegal, arbitrary and unsustainable ....seek direction to the school to take back the fee hike of Rs 2,200 per month.”
 
 The parents had said that the UT administration had informed in one case to the Punjab and Haryana high court that it would follow the steps of the Punjab government whereby there cannot be increase in monthly tuition fee more than 8% in one year. “The rules have been deliberated by Chandigarh administration and a policy for the Union Territory has also been formulated on same pattern and has been sent for necessary approval. In this way this hike is illegal and arbitrary,” the petition said.
 
 The matter would come up for hearing on April 5. 
 
 What led to it 
 
 This year, many schools, including Mount Carmel, merged fee taken under various heads, including annual charges and development fund, into tuition fee for the coming academic session. While schools reasoned that it was to save parents from feeling overburdened at the beginning of the year, the latter called the move illegal and unjustified.
 
 
