GURUGRAM: Mewat district administration suspects quacks may have spread the rumour against the   that led to closing of schools in the region. The deputy commissioner has ordered an inquiry in the matter. Notably, Monday will be a test for authorities as that is when the next round of weekly iron and folic acid supplementary (WIFS) drive will be conducted, and it has to be seen if the children return to school. 

 A dozen schools in Mewat were shut abruptly on Friday following a rumour against the health department’s nutrition drive. The rumour was that boys are being given pills that cause impotency, while girls are being injected for infertility. Parents in Fazilpur Jhirka, Nagina and Punhana villages rushed to the schools and brought back their kids fearing the safety of their reproductive health. Following this, the district administration has asked Mewat’s chief medical officer and district education officer to investigate the matter. Though no formal police complaint has been filed in the matter yet, but police have been asked to keep an eye on any video that sabotages the drive. 
 
 Healthwise, Mewat is considered to be among Haryana’s worst affected districts. Here, the average haemoglobin level among children is below 8, while ideally it should be at least between 11 and 13. Mewat’s infant mortality rate is also the highest, i.e. 72 deaths per 1,000 births. Therefore, such de-worming and supplement programmes are vital for improving the health of children and future mothers. The pills are given to children between 1-18 years, while pregnant women are given iron injections to boost haemoglobin levels.
 
 The drive hasn’t gone down well with the hakims and quacks in the area, who fear losing their business if the health of children improves. Officials believe the rumour could have been spread by these quacks, as lately they have been discouraging women against government health drives.
 
 “Mewat is mostly rural. There is a dominance of hakims and quacks, who have been insecure lately, fearing loss of livelihood. We suspect these quacks could have spread the rumours as they have been scaring women about losing their children,” deputy commissioner Maniram Sharma said.
 
 
