MUMBAI: A sessions   on Wednesday convicted and sentenced nine accused for the 2013   of a  , then aged 40, in  . 

 While two of the accused —Wahid Khan (26) and Vishal Sood (29)—were sentenced to life imprisonment, seven others—Ajay Gechand (23), Mahesh Margaze (31), Dastgir Khan (22), Wasim Shaikh (26), Manpreet Singh Gill (22), Bhuvan Hamal (30) and Dhiraj Panchal (24)—were handed 20 years of rigorous imprisonment. Judge SKS Razvi also fined the accused Rs 25,000 each, which, if recovered, will be handed over to the  .
 
 After the judge pronounced the verdict, Wahid and Vishal broke down and told the court that they were innocent. While Vishal pleaded that he be moved to a jail close to his village, the duo sought a lighter sentence. 
 
 “Hamaari zindagi ka sawaal hain,” Wahid cried. With the duo’s pleas getting louder and the commotion that ensued with the family members of the accused breaking down, all were escorted out of court. The judge told the accused that they could file an appeal in the Bombay high court. 
 
 While two of the accused were privately employed then, the others included an electrician, a cook, a caterer, a rickshaw driver, a construction worker and two DJs.
 
 Public prosecutors Usha Jadhav and Kalpana Hire examined 47 witnesses but the survivor’s statement was key. The woman, who deposed before the court in November 2014, said she was a widow and had two sons and a daughter. She worked as a farmhand in a village and regularly visited the city to collect scrap and buy clothes for her children. She said in 2013, she had come down to the city in anger after one of her sons assaulted her while drunk. 
 
 Around 9pm on September 20, 2013, the woman was asleep in a stationery tempo after work when four of the accused from her neighbourhood who were known to her —Ajay, Vishal, Dastgir and Wasim—peeped inside the vehicle. When she asked them to leave, Vishal entered the tempo, clamped her mouth shut with his hand and asked Ajay to pull her out. The group then took her close to a restaurant and raped her. Vishal and Ajay also forced her to perform oral sex. The woman said three others —Mannu (Manpreet), Hamal (Bhuvan) and Mahesh—were not known to her. They reached the spot after Vishal called them on phone. The trio, too, raped her along with the others. “I resisted but all of them assaulted me and pulled my hair. I was crying but they kept beating me,” the woman told the court. Vishal then suggested that they take her to a jungle nearby, where they were joined by Dhiraj and Wahid.
 
 The woman said she was then made to sit on a bike and taken to a nearby jungle. On the way, she spotted some milkmen with whom she pleaded for help. She said the witnesses called Wahid by his name and asked him to stop beating her. The woman said in the jungle, all the accused raped her again. Wahid and Dhiraj also sodomised her. Describing the brutality, the woman said Wahid urinated on her face and repeatedly inserted a stick in her private parts. The woman said she began to bleed and fainted, after which the accused must have fled.
 
 She said an hour later, after regaining consciousness, she managed to retrieve her mud-stained saree and drag herself to the police station. 
 
 The other witnesses included doctors who conducted her medical examination as well as bite marks analysis; she had suffered bites to her face and chest. 
 
 Jadhav said the other evidence that helped nail the accused were the call data records and the DNA of four of the accused recovered from her petticoat.
 
 
