HYDERABAD: In his bid to keep his loyal party cadre in good humour,   president and chief minister   has decided to appoint them to nominated posts across 31 districts. The posts will be given to hardcore party workers who have been pestering him for `remuneration' for their work in the last three years.The CM is learnt to have identified nearly 20,000 posts, mostly at mandal and district level to reward his restless party workers. The posts include members of various committees like agriculture, food, temples and hospitals. Each committee can have at least 10 members and there are about 563 mandals in 31 districts in the state.

 “We have effectively 16 months to go to  . If we can accommodate all the partymen in one or other post, their loyalty to the Telangana Rashtra Samithi can be guaranteed," said a senior leader.
 
 Realising the importance of dalits and backward castes for the party's electoral success, the Telangana Rashtra Samithi chief asked senior leaders to come with a list for rewarding the cadre without losing at the same time the sight of caste-balance and educational background of candidates. The process of identifying the candidates for the posts has already started and senior leaders including party functionaries have been directed to send constituency-wise list with eligible candidates. There has been an under current of disenchantment among party leaders as a large number of posts in government have not been filled even after completion of three years in power by the TRS. Understanding their agony , KCR has initiated an elaborate exercise to fill the posts. CMO sources said that there are about 20,000 posts which will be filled in next four weeks. The exercise will also see the government appointing new executive bodies for some of the corporations.
 
 “Agriculture coordination committees will be filled with party workers, but they must be farmers in the first place. Similarly , hospital committees will have educated leaders and preferably doctors as members. Temple committees will be given mostly to local leaders. Women cadre will also get due rewards as KCR has expressed his wish to have one woman on each committee, said a minister who has already submitted his district list to the CM.
 
 TRS sources said that as per the chief minister's instructions, the ministers have already completed the exercise to identify probable candidates for the nominated posts by holding constituency-wise meetings to elicit the views of the party cadres. After assessing the feedback from local party workers, ministers are preparing the list of candidates from each district. The CM is proposing to hold district wise meetings with the ministers and MLAs, after receiving these lists. In these meetings, he will personally finalise the names of leaders to be appointed to the nominated posts. To send a positive signal to party cadre, the CM is reportedly keen on commencing the process of filling of nominated posts before Bathukamma and Dasara.
 
 
