PUNE: A special message from   that says “it is our responsibility to look after disabled soldiers”, a wealth of history, a quiver full of stories about valour and the presence of a multitude of people with strength, character and determination mark Khadki-based Queen Mary’s Technical Institute which will conclude its centenary year celebrations on May 16.

 The institute since its inception in 1917 has trained over 10,000 disabled soldiers in management, computer operations, computer hardware and networking, and three ITI engineering trades__ electrician, diesel mechanic and fitter. In the recent past, 94 soldiers got either government or private service or exercised the option of self-employment.
 
 Soma Mhaske, 30, is undergoing the electrician’s course at Queen Mary’s Technical Institute (QMTI). Mhaske was trapped under the debris of an underground barrack following an earthquake in 2005 when he was posted at the Line of Control in Jammu & Kashmir.
 
 He wants to set up his shop at his native place in Sangli after he completes the course. Like him, 200 soldiers are currently pursuing various vocational courses at the QMTI.
 
 Mhaske, who is still serving with the Indian army’s Corps of Signals, said, “I was declared dead when six other soldiers were found dead under the debris. I managed to survive but I sustained multiple injuries. I never gave up and continued to work with the Corps.”
 
 He enroled at QMTI in August 2016. “After joining the institute, I realised there are 200 others like me. I am inspired and confident that I will have a better life,” he said. Lance Naik Suresh Kumar from 1 Bihar   is pursuing a computer hardware course at QMTI. He lost his right leg in a mine blast during night patrolling in   sector in Kashmir in 2005. “I will opt for an office job rather than working in a security firm after retirement,” Kumar added. 
 
  Col Devendra Gupta (retd), chief executive officer of QMTI, said their training keeps pace with the current trends.
 
 The courses offered at QMTI are affiliated to private and government education institutes, including Savitribai Phule Pune University.
 
 “Training in English speaking, soft skills and computer literacy courses have been introduced in the last 10 years. We encourage soldiers to prepare for competitive exams. Impromptu courses like tally, cellphone repairs, desktop publications too have been started at the institute,” Gupta said.
 
