BENGALURU: The last two decades have seen concerted efforts by   to infuse their ideologies in the minds of voters by influencing the country's  . And the best way is to change the narrative of subjects that have a bearing on  . Be it Centre or the states,   has been done time and again by   in an attempt to stimulate the future generations towards the left, right or centre.

 In Karnataka, too, the controversy surrounding textbook revision points to the same ulterior motive, with the “secular“ and “nationalist“ forces clash ing over dele tion and addi tion of con tent recom mended in the state syllabus for 1.01 crore schoolchildren of classes I to X.
 
 In 2013-14, soon after assuming power, the Congress government under CM Siddaramaiah made a budget announcement that it will revise school books, in an obvious attempt to desaffronize them after the BJP government revised them in 2012.
 
 Five years later, after 27 expert committees and 245 workshops with stakeholders were held to revise 486 titles, the textbook revision controversy has come to the fore with just a year left for the 2018 assembly polls.
 
 While the BJP claims that the Congress government is rushing through with the revision of textbooks, without abiding by the National Curriculum Framework & Karnataka Curriculum Framework, in an effort to appease regions and communities ahead of the polls next year, the Congress and the JD(S) have accused BJP of trying to play with people's emotions, saying the saffron party is worried as the revision isn't in tune with its right wing ideology .
 
 In the spotlight is acclaimed writer and nominated chairperson of textbook revision committee Baragur Ramachandrappa, who was at the fore of the opposition when the BJP revised textbooks in 2012. Chief minister Siddaramaiah made him the head of the textbook revision committee in 2014-15.
 
 According to Ramachandrappa, the changes prescribed in the books, in process of be ing printed for academic year 2017-18, have been restricted only to topics which the citizens and educationalists said were being saffronized.
 
 Admitting there were regional considerations, but in the interest of the entire state, Ramachandrappa said, “There was a lot of regional imbalance, with certain regions getting more representation than other backward regions which have noted scholars but works of whom aren't being taught in schools. Many writers from the Hyderabad-Karnatak region were neglected. Changes have been made in these areas.“
 
 He said the panel has also tried to bring in gender equality by including women writers and freedom fighters, adding those opposing the revision were doing so only for the sake of politics. “The BJP is trying to play with people's sentiments to gain political mileage,“ said Ramachandrappa.
 
 Supporting the textbook committee and the government, JD(S) MLC Ramesh Babu said that the prime reason for the BJP to oppose textbook revision was the addition of leftleaning content and de-weeding of saffronization. “They are politicizing the issue by claiming substantial changes in the textbooks but in reality the change is only 20% with the fundamentals being the same,“ he said.
 
 The BJP, however, claims that there is no clash of ideologies and that the government is playing politics by not adhering strictly to educational standards. “In the name of leveling regional imbalance and desaffronization, the state government is giving more impetus to their own vote-bank by adding favourable content that appeal to their sensibilities. In fact, the NCERT is still reviewing the changes and yet they have gone ahead with the printing of the textbooks,“ said BJP MLC Arun Shahpur.
 
 
 
