NAGPUR: A submission made before Nagpur bench of   revealed that the Navin Kumar committee report was an ‘eye wash’ as it recommended regularizing irregular allotment of public utility (PU) land to private organizations.

 Amicus curiae in the matter, Anand   in his submission highlighted that many issues regarding irregularities in the Nagpur Improvement Trust (NIT) were not considered by the one-man committee. He prayed for constitution of an appropriate enquiry committee to reinvestigate the matter.
 
 The amicus stated in his report that the appointment committee was a voluntary step by the state government to probe into the affairs of the NIT which was neither ordered by the court nor issued under the Commission of Enquiries Act. He further stated that it was an in-house enquiry instituted to probe the irregularities has proved to be a ‘damp squib’.
 
 PU land in the city were found to have been allotted to private organizations either affiliated to or backed by political heavyweights at rates less than the market price. Apart from this, the committee also looked into instances of violation of rules in land acquisition from individuals for   (IRDP) and favouring influential persons.
 
 The committee suggested to remediate the illegalities committed by the NIT or allottees by recovering compounding charges at a premium. Parchure pointed out that rule 24 and 25 of the NIT (Disposal of Land) Rules, 1983, provides for cancellation of lease and repossession of land in case of breach of conditions of lease.
 
 Kumar’s suggestion was taken as a directive by NIT when it amended these rules. Parchure’s contention was that the amendment was approved by the government without seeking permission from the court. Both, the state and NIT, had filed their submissions in the matter, however, there was no mention of any kind of action would be taken against those allottees who violated the terms of lease.
 
 Parchure stated 28 issues in his submission which have not been answered by the NIT. These included allotting land reserved for housing society to former guardian minister Satish Chaturvedi for a hostel, outstanding ground rent to the tune of Rs. 75.37 lakhs from 325 PU land allottees and loss of Rs36 lakhs due to NIT’s incorrect investment policy. Accountant General – II,   too raised objections to these issues.
 
