KOLKATA: A 65-year-old KMC supervisor — driven to poverty after his wife became partially paralyzed last year and his son failed to find a stable job — has gone “missing” after the 55-year-old woman was found strangled on Wednesday. The couple’s only son,  , told police he found his mother dead and father missing only when he woke up at home in the morning. The police are yet to trace the husband; they are questioning the son. 

 Just hours before the  , the suspect, Kalyan Das, had walked into Garfa police station and lodged a complaint against Subhojit for not looking after the couple. He had also threatened to commit suicide. The incident was reported from the Vivek Nagar area of Garfa.
 
 “Subhojit stays at a corner of the compound. He woke up on Wednesday and found the main door of the two-storey house unlocked and the ground floor deserted. When he tried to walk up to the first floor, he found it locked. He then informed the police who broke open the lock and found the victim, Dipa Das, lying dead. She was strangled and the cloth was still on her neck,” said DC (south suburban)  .
 
 According to police, the family had been struggling ever since they came over from Bangladesh during the 1971 war. “Dipa took up all sorts of jobs — cooking and cleaning at domestic households, setting up a stitching units and even setting up a yoga centre recently. But in December 2016, she fell ill and was partially paralyzed, that stopped her from going out of her room,” said a neighbour. The police say though the two-floor residence was built over years, the family was facing a major property dispute that was stopping them from selling it off. “Kalyan did not find any solution with which he can arrange the money for his wife’s treatment. He had been brooding over it for a long time,” said an investigating officer.
 
 Cops said Kalyan had recently opened a paying-guest accommodation for   students at home. “The husband and wife were always arguing and so, when the paying guests heard the two screaming, they did not suspect anything,” said an official.
 
 The cops have detained Subhojit for questioning. “There are certain gaps in his statement. We are trying to trace the suspect. We are afraid he may end his life. All his friends and relatives have been urged to help us find him,” explained a Garfa cop. A case of murder — based on the complaint of Subhojit — has been started.
 
 
