MUMBAI: After the   in Borivli was de-recognized by the education department on Monday over illegal first-year junior college admissions, students and parents have alleged there were several other irregularities at the college like collection of fees higher than prescribed, unfair means of giving marks and threats from the staff. 

 The students want the education department to intervene at the earliest so they do not lose a year. "Class XII is a very important year and we want the students to resume studies at the earliest. The government shouldn't have waited an entire year to realize there was a problem," said a parent.
 
 Deputy director of education, Mumbai, B B Chavan said the department had already made a list of vacancies in colleges nearby. "There are enough seats to accommodate the 630 students," he said.
 
 Over 50 students and their parents gathered at Charkop police station on Tuesday where college principal, Prashant Gaikwad and owner of a tutorial centre, Makrand Bodas are in custody. "Our exams were conducted in the coaching classes using answer sheets from the college. But there were a lot of problems in the college and we wanted to shift next year. However, when we approached the college, the principal threatened to give us a leaving certificate stating we were detained because we did not attend classes regularly," said a student.
 
 The students have alleged the Class XI mark sheet does not bear an institute registration number or seal. "The principal would threaten students saying he had political backing. When we attended practicals in college, some male teachers would try to get very close to female students. A teacher offered full marks in viva if a student helped with clerical work," said another student.
 
 Students also claimed that attending all events or trips would be made mandatory and linked to their marks. "We would have to pay hefty sums for various activities like the annual function. During the function, staff and outsiders would misbehave. Hence, we wanted to switch to another college," the student said. The college allegedly had tie-ups with coaching centres in the vicinity.
 
 Meanwhile senior NCP leader   on Tuesday said, "I have no relation with the college and have already informed education minister   about it. The college had not taken any permission to use my name."
 
 
