NEW DELHI: When his cycle brushed against a man, a 32-year-old man was thrashed and stabbed by the infuriated man and his companion in full view of the public in east Delhi’s Trilokpuri on Tuesday night. The victim claimed that there were over 50 people at the site of the incident, but no one came forward to help him despite his pleas for help.

 Police said on Thursday that Ajit Sharma was cycling home from his workplace in Noida and had reached the public park in Trilokpuri when he lost balance and lightly hit the passing Suraj. Almost immediately, Shahjad, who was walking with Suraj, pulled Sharma by the collar and started hurling abuses at him. Before he could react, Sharma said, Shahjad slapped him three times and asked him to apologise to Suraj. He did as ordered, hoping to be let off after that.
 
 “After apologising, I asked them if Suraj was hurt and wanted money for treatment. They readily agreed,” said Sharma, narrating how unprepared he was for what followed. “But as I was taking out money from my pocket, they started hurling abuses anew and punched me. I didn’t retaliate, only kept asking them for mercy, to no avail.” 
 
 The victim recollected that people had begun gathering, though none had made an attempt to stop the battering. “When I realised my cries for mercy had no effect on my attackers, I requested the onlookers to stop the men from hitting me,” he said. “But nobody helped me.” 
 
 Police confirmed that Suraj and Shahjad thrashed Sharma and threw his cycle into a drain nearby. They then stabbed Sharma four times, first in his chest, head and back and the partially in his chest again. When he collapsed, the men flung his body into the drain in full view of the public. After the men disappeared from the site, the crowd also dispersed.
 
 Suraj and Shahjad, police said, were in an inebriated state when the incident took place. Sharma, who survived the assault, gained consciousness after some time and somehow located his cycle. “Even though I was bleeding profusely, I rode back home,” said Sharma. He reached home drenched in blood and was taken to   by his brothers. 
 
 “A team led by Rahul Alwal, ACP (Kalyanpuri), took up the case,” said Omvir Singh, DCP (East). After Sharma was discharged from hospital on Wednesday evening, the cops drove him around the spot where the incident had taken place. There, Sharma noticed the duo trying to board a bus. “They were trying to leave the city, but we arrested them,” said a senior police officer.
 
 
