JODHPUR: The condition of  , who has been admitted to the ICU of   here, is stable but critical. He was admitted to the hospital on Wednesday by his family members in a critical condition.

 Mali was allegedly arrested and tortured by Sardarpura police on February 12 night on charges of car theft. He was spotted by the public and was beaten up before being handed over to the police.
 
 Police admitted him to the hospital the next day, where he remained under treatment and went to his home in Pipar city near Jodhpur on February 15.
 
 “We have registered a case against ASI Anil Bishnoi and driver, etc. We have sent both of them to the lines in order to ensure a fair investigation,” said a police official.
 
 The registration of the case against policemen was followed by a preliminary investigation by a senior police official, which confirmed  .
 
 The chairman of the Rajasthan State Human Rights Organisation (RSHRO), Justice Prakash Tatia, also visited the hospital on Thursday and spoke to his family members and community persons assuring justice to the family.
 
 The issue flared up after Mali was admitted to the hospital on Wednesday. Community members then assembled at the hospital and later went to the police station demanding action against the policemen of Sardarpura police station for beating him up mercilessly and causing serious injuries.
 
 His brother   alleged that the police were trying to hush up the matter right from the start. Police agreed to investigate the matter after community leaders built pressure on them.
 
 He said his brother was beaten up by the police on February 12 night and was even given electric shocks. His condition deteriorated the next day and he was admitted to the hospital. Three days later, he was sent home without considering his physical condition or getting permission from the hospital.
 
 Meanwhile, the trauma care in-charge   said the victim’s kidneys were badly damaged and he was undergoing dialysis daily for three hours.
 
 “He is kept on ventilator and is stable,” Rajpurohit said.
 
