Koose Muniasamy   aka Veerappan was a dreaded outlaw of southern India in the 1980-90s. He was not only notorious for sandalwood smuggling and elephant poaching, but also for his ruthless massacre of officers who tried to nab him. So much so, that he held three southern Indian states- Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu- to ransom for nearly 20 years! Veerappan was finally shot dead in 2004 in an   by the Tamil Nadu   ( ) under the leadership of  , the then STF-chief.
 
 Now more than 13 years after his death, Veerappan still fascinates people -- be it his trademark handlebar moustache or his daring escapades. And so, K.Vijay Kumar has come out with a tell-all book on India's most-wanted bandit and his dramatic end. ' ' was released in February 2017. We interacted with the author to know more about the book, Veerappan himself and the challenges faced by STF during its operations against the bandit. Excerpts:
 
 
 
 There were multiple versions of Veerappan in print and celluloid. Some projected him as a Robinhood hounded by heartless minions of the state, while the others called him a nasty brute whose machete ever dripped with blood. Either way he was ten feet tall. I wanted to place him and our chase in the right perspective and so penned down the book.
 
 The first draft of the book was written in 2006. I knew that the interest in the 'story' would slightly vaporize with every passing year, but I was helpless. I was very busy professionally. I then met Vikas Singh from The Times of India in 2014, who shook me out of inertia and helped me write this book.
 
 
 
 It was a thought that came like a flash which my wife Meena fully endorsed and just like my intent to author a book was, initially, kept a secret. Now that the book is out I want it to reach more people, make a helluva lot of money (in lighter vein). I want to donate the entire proceeds for education-related activities in the places where Veerappan struck like a tsunami - say the villages including Manjucomapatti, Pulinjur, Geddesal- where people were brutally killed by him.
  
 
 
 I never saw him only as an adversary. If he had taken competent STFs on a ride in the jungles for over a decade, there must have been something going for him. We tried to figure out 'What' was that? Tactics? Intel? Good PR? or all of it!
 
 For instance, in some of his tapes Veerappan spoke longingly of his village and family. In a chat, he once said that he couldn't even take part in his parents' funeral as there were cops at the spot waiting to nab him. So he had to watch the funeral from the woods... At one point, all the granite quarries were shut down in his turf because of the gang's depredations which lead to thousands of people losing their jobs. But the villagers blamed the state and not Veerappan for it! This speaks volumes of his communication skills.
 
 I used to think, what if he had been a cop or an army guy? He had audacity and was cunning. He was a beast with a human brain. Give the devil its due. Minus some negative energy from his persona, and he could have been a terrific commander of any fighting force!
  
  
 
  
 
 Not just twist and turns, I've recounted a 'U' turn that Veerappan took when we tried to catch him in a trap, before Operation Cocoon happened. He was an asymmetric foe and would take sudden decisions. He was also very superstitious-- birds, lizards, cowrie shells would guide his next move and all your plans and operations would go for a toss!
 
 There are some such twists in the tale which are grim while some turns are funny. Like once how, while waiting for him, one of our STF member ended up killing a fellow officer in a case of mistaken identity at night in the jungle. While the funniest one is when Veerappan once came to eat his dosas at a villager's hut. The STF got the wind of this. But while the officers were waiting outside the hut for Veerappan to arrive, they heard a gunshot at the same time from a nearby place. This diverted their attention thus missing their target by a few minutes. Later they laughed ruefully when they figured out that the source of the noise was a neighbour who was on a spree to shoot wild boars in his farm.
 
 Then there is an incident that happened post Dr. Rajkumar's abduction and release after 108 days by Veerappan. The bandit was hiding in the tri-junction of Tamil Nadu-Karnataka-Kerala and the STF decided to track him through a fierce helicopter chase, but it was futile as the sensors on the helicopter didn't work in the area. During this time, the STF troop on patrol was once very close to Veerappan's gang. A gun battle happened between the STF and the gang members, in which Veerappan's aide Govindan narrowly escaped a bullet due to currency notes, just as it happens in movies! 
 
 Then there is this incredible story of STF's infiltration- how Veerappan was duped into providing free boarding and lodging to four of his potential assassins for three weeks, right before he was shot dead in Operation Cocoon. There are many such incidences which happened over the years in our quest to nab Veerappan, which are mentioned in the book.
 
 
 
 STFs' ranks brimmed with the cream of police. But the bandit had clear headway- namely, an early and long apprenticeship in jungle craft. A good hunter who hides his presence from his prey, I guess, could comfortably hide from a human adversary (STF in case of Veerappan). He was a top notch hunter who would sidle up a rogue elephant with ease, when hair had barely bristled on his upper lip. His wile, guile, terror, sharp tactics, intel and much more prolonged the hunt. Veerappan was incredibly lucky too. By the time when I joined the hunt,   and   had whittled down his gang to just four members. But the hood of the cobra matters more than the rest; Veerappan was that hood and was still there.
  
 
 
 It was an adrenaline gush of about 30 STF members- who by 9 PM knew their prey was big, by 10:30 PM knew it was a mighty one and only after the hunt got over by 11:10 PM came to know it was Veerappan! I've tried my best to evoke each of those moments with utmost details in the book.
 
 As for the challenges, everything was a challenge at that point of time: from saving a part of the fake ambulance (code named cocoon) as it carried our men in it too, to sudden trespassers who arrived at our ambush point, to the extra passenger who wanted to hitch a ride in it... There were many last minute glitches.
  
 
 
 Had he survived, some speculate he would have taken to a political road. As for catching him alive, the window of opportunity that the law of the land had bidden me to open was kept that way. But he jammed it shut. The cocoon took over 300 bullets. How & why? The final chapter of the book tells it all.
 
 
 
 When I saw Amish's endorsement, I was reminded of the saying 'sometimes truth is stranger than fiction'. Anything about Veerappan thrilled us - even remains from his just abandoned camps. It nearly became a mission by itself. In our quest to find the bandit, we even issued a dictat-- 'Enough of stashes. Go for the man'. However, Veerappan's last camp was a thrilling find as it tested one's rock climbing skills.
 
 But the most thrilling moment for me was when we ran into two people, named as the Trader and Mr X in the book who later played an important role in catching hold of Veerappan.
  
 
 
 You've hit the bull's eye. I wanted this book to reach exactly them. Today's youth would have had a full quota of ISIS and other terrorists. But the 'bandit' is an almost vanished species. When we were kids, dacoits Man Singh of Chambal and Mambattiyan of Tamil Nadu held us in thrall.
 
 Let me also share with you this initial feedbacks on the book 'Veerappan'. The first two were from a 12 year and 18 year old and both of them loved it.
 
 
