THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The city  , which is already limping in terms of plan expenditure, is dealing with more trouble as the  , mostly road works, are finding no takers owing to the switch to schedule rates under ministry of road development (MoRD). The   have expressed objections to taking up works under schedules specified by MoRD citing that they would incur huge financial loss and that the works are not technically feasible.

 Until now, the corporation has followed Delhi schedule rates (DSR) for civil works. When the works were changed to MoRD rates as per the direction of local self government department, huge disparity has arisen in terms of payment of contractors. “For instance, if DSR ensured payment of Rs 168 per sq m for chipping carpet, in MoRD it comes down to 153 per sq m. If work is carried out at this rate for a measurement of 5,000 sq m, we would end up bearing enormous loss,” a contractor said.
 
 The ruling council has had a series of discussions on the issue but has not produced any fruitful results. The need to introduce machines in road construction has caused another point of contention. According to contractors, the present width of corporation roads and the nature of terrain is ill-suited to use machines like pavers as mandated by MoRD.
 
 While the public works department (PWD ) ensures additional payment for clearing of obstacles on the road ahead of tarring, the rates under MoRD make no such mention. “This means that even if we are to make a path ready for the paver to enter, we will have to remove posts or any other obstacles on our own. This is not financially feasible for the civil works,” the contractor said. 
 
 The presence of manholes and undulating nature of corporation roads further make it difficult for using machines. “The blades in a paver are set at a specific measurement, in case of manholes which stick out at about 5cm above the road level, it becomes tough for the pavers to manoeuvre such manholes. Besides, undulating nature requires levelling but that cost is not covered under MoRD,” an official said.
 
 According to engineering wing officials, the change in rates becomes so apparent since it was already higher in DSR. “As regarding the financial aspect, the disparity in rates becomes so prominent since DSR provided generally higher rates. However, in terms of technical aspects, use of machines would be a huge challenge,” the offiicals said. 
 
 The corporation is yet to take up the matter with the state government as the field-level engineers have already given clearance for works on a condition that manual labour could be used since the rates for labour is much lesser in MoRD than in DSR. The city corporation has had 378 successful bidders for 674 works, but agreement is yet to be finalized. No tenders have been received for 186 works while 110 works are caught in single tender. 
 
 Earlier, the contractors had raised objection to the directive from finance department which made it mandatory for the contractors as well as the engineering wing to submit an affidavit regarding works executed below the actual rate.
 
