Kolkata: Bengal is likely to introduce its three-language policy, with Bengali as a compulsory subject, from classes I to VIII. All school boards — Madhyamik, CISCE, CBSE and IB — will come within its ambit.

 Officials submitted this proposal to state   minister   on Friday. “The amendments to the   Education Act, 1963, which may be introduced this assembly session or in the next, are going to be based on the proposal the minister received on Friday,” a senior official told TOI.
 
 Schools run by minority institutions like the   (CNI) are insulated against any state over-reach under the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education (RTE) Act, but the state education department is likely to request them to implement its three-language policy with compulsory Bengali.
 
 The new law is also likely to make it mandatory for all West Bengal Board of Secondary Education (WBBSE) schools to have Bengali as first language from classes I to VIII. The only exceptions will be schools in areas that are notified under the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration Act, where many schools have Nepali as their first language. 
 
 State education department officials said the proposals would first be vetted by Chatterjee and then would, “most probably”, be placed before chief minister Mamata Banerjee before being placed in the state assembly for their enactment into law. “The most important people in the government will be vetting the proposals, given their implications, but what the minister received on Friday would form the backbone of the new law,” an official said.
 
 Officials also indicated that Bengali as a compulsory subject would be introduced only in Class I in the next academic year. “It will not be started in all classes at one go. It will be a process of gradual inclusion,” indicated an official.
 
 Another important point in the set of proposals now on the education minister’s table is that Bengali will also be a “testing subject” in all classes from I to VIII; this means students will have to appear for Bengali examinations, irrespective of whether they choose it as their first, second or third language.
 
 The government is, however, likely to leave it to the boards to decide on the exam modalities. “Everything, including whether Bengali marks are going to be added to the cumulative, whether passing in Bengali will be a must and the frequency of Bengali exams, is likely to be decided by the boards. The state will not impose anything,” an education department official said.
 
 The proposals make Bengali an optional subject in  . “We will leave it to the boards to formulate their policy and Bengali will be optional in these two classes. But schools will have to offer it as a subject if a student opts for it. We will suggest it can be an extra credit course, which a student may or may not opt for,” the official said.
 
 But officials admit they are yet to form a clear opinion on whether the state move to force Bengali in the three-language policy in the primary classes will create a legal loophole, given the 2014 Supreme Court Constitution Bench verdict. The ruling states a child and his/her guardians have the right to choose the medium of instruction at the primary-school stage under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution and any move that may affect learning one’s mother tongue infringes on a citizen’s fundamental rights under Articles 19, 29 and 30 of the Constitution.
 
 But state officials argued the Karnataka government move to make Kannada compulsory in all schools fell through in the SC because it was an executive order. “We are not taking the executive order route, we are bringing a bill. A state can enact a law for education, which is on the concurrent list,” said a school education official, though he added that “legal interpretations could vary”.
 
 “The legal aspects will be examined,” he added.
 
