NAINITAL:   on Thursday ordered the Uttarakhand Environment Protection & Pollution Control Board ( ) to “close down all hotels, ashrams and industries which are polluting the Ganga by strictly enforcing the court’s orders passed earlier in this regard.” HC made the observations while commenting that there was laxity in shutting down the polluting units by the administration. This was the third time in the past four months that the court had stressed on the need to close establishments   and pulled up those responsible for enforcing it.
 
  The division bench of Justices   and Alok Singh was hearing a petition related to cleaning of Ganga filed by Nainital-based advocate Lalit Miglani, and reviewing the work done on the orders passed by them. On December 2 last year, the court had issued an exhaustive order which had stated that “the ashrams at Haridwar would be ordered to be sealed and closed down in case untreated sewage is permitted by them to flow in the Ganga directly without treatment.”
  
  It had also asked for a special audit to be done by the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) of “all centrally-financed schemes launched to rejuvenate river Ganga.” It had also directed the UEPPCB to take action against 180 industries, to whom show cause notices had been issued in 2015-16. An immediate closure of around 106 industries within the vicinity of the river -- which had been already served notices but failed to comply -- was also ordered by the court.
  
  On March 17, the HC pulled up the UEPPCB showing ‘serious displeasure’ in the way the board had acted, and not closed polluting units as directed. It also directed the district magistrate, Haridwar to ensure that all industries, hotels and commercial establishments discharging sewage/industrial effluent directly in the Ganga be closed within a week.
  
  After Thursday’s reiteration by the court that its orders on closing polluting units be strictly enforced, Miglani who had filed the petition, said that he was “happy that the honourable court has not only passed a landmark order regarding cleaning of the Ganga but is also taking adequate steps to ensure that it is effectively implemented.”
