MUMBAI: Despite criticism that family members of leaders were given tickets, citizens have voted many of them to power. 

 Neil Somaiya (26), son of   MP Kirit Somaiya, defeated Shiv Sena’s Mukesh Karia from Mulund by a margin of 4,070 votes. Somaiya had invited criticism from within the party for pushing for his son’s nomination. In fact, it also resulted in a few defections within the party. “We will give an account of every single paise of public money spent. My father has introduced e-tendering and transparency even in contracts which cost below Rs 1 lakh.
 
 We will uproot corruption in the civic body and citizens, especially from the middle and lower middle classes, are supporting me,” he stated. Meanwhile Akash Purohit, son of MLA Raj Purohit, won from Bhuleshwar ward in South Mumbai. “I was a corporator and now an MLA so I understand the work involved,” said Raj Purohit. Minister of state for women and child welfare, Vidya Thakur, ensured the win of her son Deepak from Ward 50 in Goregaon (W), which is her assembly constituency.
 
  winner Meher Haider ran an entire campaign in Ward 66, Andheri (W), without a photo on posters or banners. The 46-year-old mother of three is the wife of sitting corporator Mohsin Haider. She polled over 11,000 votes, defeating the MIM aspirant by 4,000 votes. The BJP came third. “Meher and I have been married for 26 years. She has been doing a lot of social work and handling our mass marriage programmes for 10 years, so people know her well,” Haider said. The shy lady said she would manage her domestic responsibilities and new work “as only women can do best”.
 
 Harshita Narwekar from Cuffe Parade, who defeated the Sena’s Smita Pawale, was another example. “I received positive feedback when campaigning, as many residents could identify with me considering I am a local. I plan to take up several issues like parking, vagrants and encroachment of footpaths,” said Narwekar, sister-in-law of corporator Makarand Narwekar.
 
 However, not all politicians’   found equal favour with voters. While Kamini Shewale, wife of   MP Rahul Shewale, who was given a ticket ignoring sitting corporator Dinesh Panchal, lost, she was defeated by Panchal’s wife Anita, who fought the election on a BJP ticket. 
 
 While the new civic house will have many fresh faces as most politicians’ relatives who won are first-time corporators, voters also favoured several first-timers, including those with no links to sitting politicians. In Bandra’s Pali Hill ward, BJP’s Swapna Mhatre defeated sitting corporator Karen D’Mello. Mhatre, an accounts manager with Mumbai Metro, has been involved with BJP for over a decade now. The party’s women’s wing president, she was looking forward to her new role. “I stay in Bandra and am conscious of the problems of the area. Therefore, along with the party’s agenda of development and transparency, I plan to make this area better for residents,” said Mhatre. 
 
 It was a bitter-sweet moment for first-time candidates from NCP, Bhagyashree and her husband Vaibhav Bharadkar. Bhagyashree, who contested from Ward 42, in Dindoshi assembly constituency won the seat while her husband lost in Ward 38. Bhagyashree, a home-maker, has been involved in social work but this victory will now involve a full-time plunge into politics.
 
 
