HYDERABAD: The Telangana government has granted   permissions without environmental clearance under the garb of a recent order of Union ministry of mines that makes the rule flexible for a green nod.

 A 50-year mining lease for limestone and dolomite was granted to T Satyanarayana for 77.78 acre in Nagepally village, Vemanpally mandal of Macherial (erstwhile Adilabad district).
 
 The same person was granted another 50-year mining lea se for limestone and dolomite for 97 acres in Metapally village of Bhimini mandal in Mancherial district. Another lease was granted in the name of T Sharada for 293.82 acre in the hinterland.
 
 A lease was also granted to   for 37 acre in Chintapalem village, Mellacheru mandal in Nalgonda district (now Suryapet district). This also was again for period of 50 years. All four government orders were issued on January 11 by the industries and commerce department. Earlier, Satyanarayana was granted in-principle lease for 20 years on November 12, 2012, subject to conditions which included submission of approving mining plan within six months along with environmental clearance from the Union government and a consent for establishment ( ) from  . The green signal was also subject to submission of 'pattadar' consent for the area, chemical analysis report and project report for establishing a cement plant and its financial evidence and final prospecting report.
 
 Since the conditions for en vironmental clearance were not met, director of mines and geology thrice granted sixmonth extensions on July 5, 2013, March 10, 2014, and July 16, 2014. The government's charity did not stop here. Another extension was granted from November 12, 2014, to May 11, 2015 for submission of approved mining plan along with environmental clearance and consent for establishment. This extension was granted to T Satyanarayana and T Sharada.
 
 While granting lease, the state government relied on an order S.O. No. 27(E), dated January 4, 2017, issued by the Union ministry of mines.
 
 According to the Centre's order, even if environmental clearance (EC) conditions have not been complied with before January 11, 2017, the application can be considered and mining lease granted, if all other specifications are met. However, it has been made clear no mining activity should com mence unless the applicant obtains the EC as laid down under Environmental (Protection) Act, 1986. In case of  , the mining lease was granted in principle on October 27, 2011. However, till October 26, 2015, the company could not get the EC and the CFE from State Pollution Control Board, despite availing a six-month extension.This extension expired on October 26, 2015.
 
 Earlier, the applicants, P Satyanarayana, P Sharada and Ms Anjani Portland Cement Limited were granted in-principle lease for 20 years. But in the final permission on January 11, 2017, they got it for 50 years. Speaking to TOI, principal secretary, industries and commerce Jayesh Ranjan said, “It's a fact they have not got environmental clearances. Though we issued the GOs, they cannot begin operations until the party gets the required permission."
 
