KOCHI: The first of the two Roll-On, Roll-Off (RoRo) vessels constructed by the   corporation is ready for delivery. And corporation intends to begin   of the RoRo services in April. But, the work of constructing jetties at Fort Kochi and Vypeen is moving at a slow pace as the local body is unable to reach a consensus on stopping jankar services to facilitate the work. 

 "We are yet to reach a consensus with the local people and politicians in the area about stopping operations of the existing jankar services for at least two months. The jankar services have to be suspended to facilitate construction of jetties, especially for constructing mooring pillars," said works standing committee chairperson PM Harris.
 
 It is expected that mayor Soumini Jain would soon hold discussions with the local people seeking their support in the construction of jetties. The local body is hopeful that the construction of the jetties would be completed by March end. The local body would be able to take delivery of the vessels only when the jetties are ready.
 
 Officials with   said there was no delay on their behalf. They would be able to go ahead with certification process once the local body gives the vessel a name. "When we get the name it would be possible to complete registration process with the  . The Shipyard has completed all other technical processes including trial run," said a senior official. The official also said that the trial run of the second vessel would be held shortly.
 
 The corporation entrusted Cochin Shipyard to construct two RoRo vessels at a cost of Rs 7.6 crore. The task of constructing jetties is entrusted with   for an amount of Rs 7.4 crore.
 
 "While constructing jetty at Fort Kochi factors like high tide, low tide and strong water currents will have to be taken into account," added Harris.
 
 However, experts in ship technology warned delay in constructing jetties would eventually lead to a situation where vessels would remain idle. Sivaprasad K an associate director with ship technology in Cusat said, "If the vessel is kept idle for a long time it is a waste of resources. In case large structures have to be constructed, it will take time to complete works. The local body and other agencies could think temporarily facility for operating RoRo vessels," he said.
 
