CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and   high   on Wednesday ordered the enforcement directorate (ED) and the income-tax department to probe the allegations of money laundering and unaccounted money pertaining to the Dera Sacha Sauda in  . “It is essential to conclude the allegations of money laundering in the dera. ED and I-T department should take over the issue and submit a report before the court,“ ordered the court.

 High court has specified that the probe should be focus on the dera chief,  , and his close associates.
 
 Court has also asked the court commissioner, A K S Panwar, who has recently carried out the sanitization of dera headquarters in Sirsa, to hand over a copy of his report to additional solicitor general of India, Satya Pal Jain. Jain has been asked to facili tate the officials of IT de partment and ED in probing the allegations by supplying a copy of the report.
 
 A full bench, comprising Justices Surya Kant, Augustine George Masih and Avneesh Jhingan, has passed these orders after some members of the high court bar sought a deeper probe into financial transactions of the dera.
 
 Senior member of the bar Anupam Gupta told the HC that there are reports of the dera chief floating ghost companies for money laundering and to adjust unaccounted money .Gupta had demanded an ED probe into the money ploughed into Gurmeet's movies.
 
 HC has also directed the Haryana government to submit a fact-finding report before the court stating that nothing had been removed from the dera headquarters from August 28 to September 8.
 
 Bench has also directed the Haryana government to probe the alleged exemptions given by Haryana government to the dera by declaring it a separate village in the revenue record. HC was informed that the dera was exempted from taking Change of Land Use (CLU) licences and other permissions for raising large number of constructionsbuildings in the dera.
 
 To ascertain the loss incurred during recent violence, the bench directed both the states of Punjab and Haryana to set up compensation tribunals to determine and quantify the total loss of private and public properties during the violence erupted after conviction of dera chief in rape cases. Court, however, made it clear that recovery of compensation amount from dera would be decided by the HC.
 
 Meanwhile, the court has also accepted the request of Anil Kumar Singh Panwar, retired sessions judge and court commissioner appointed by the HC for search and sanitization of the dera headquarters for more time to finalize the report.
 
