THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Freethinkers Kerala group, in association with Kerala Freethinkers Forum, is organizing Freethinkers’ Meet at Vyloppilli Sanskrithi Bhavan from April 22. Started in 2013, Freethinkers’ Meet is an annual event to propagate rationalism and science in order to create a free and liberal society.

 The two-day-event will witness presentation of topics on various domains like science, rationalism, feminism, dalit issues etc. There will be an open forum on ‘Science and Morality’, which will be led by Anu Vinod on April 22. Harish Nethaji and Arun N M will be the moderators.
 
 In addition to the open forum 15 talks will be held on various topics. 
 
 On day 1, Viswananthan C will talk on ‘Consciousness, brain and society’ at 10am. This will be followed by talk on ‘Cognitive biases’ by Haritha Thambi. Ashish Jose Ambat will deliver talk on ‘Myths of gender brains’ at 12.10pm, followed by   on ‘LGBT: science, law and identity politics’. Sanal Edamaruku will do a live video presentation on ‘Celebrating romance, spring and a world without religion’ at 3pm. Sonam Mittal and K M Sreekumar will respectively talk on ‘Sexual harassment at workplace’ and ‘Genetically modified crops’. Hrishikesh Bhaskaran will talk on ‘Politics of memes’.
 
 On April 23, Vaisakhan Thampi will talk on ‘Common sense and science: A risky combination’ at 9.30am. This will be followed by a talk on dalit feminism by Vaikhari Aryat. Deepu Sadasivan will deliver talk on ‘Unhealthy health tips’ at 11.20am.   and Libin Thathappilly will deliver talks on ‘Portrayal of women in media’ and ‘A critic on advaita vendanta’ respectively.   and Sunny Kapikad will respectively talk on ‘Beyond the senses: How science transcends human limits’ and 'Annihilation of caste: modernism, Ambedkar and Gandhi’. 
 
 Programme co-ordinator Sarita Kachapilly said that has the   group, ‘Freethinkers’ with over 1.4 lakh members and ‘Kerala Freethinkers Forum’ are jointly organizing the two-day event to promote rationalism and science. We have been organising Freethinkers meet as an annual event since 2013, she s aid.
 
