Though he doesn't party much and follows a disciplined schedule,  , who was recently in Delhi, tells us that he loves   and its cafes. "I do not party much. Just once in a while, but, recently, I went to a cafe in CP and I must say they play really good music! CP mein bahut achhi jagah khul gayi hai. At the moment CP is my favourite place in Delhi."

 
 Aman is going to play the role of Bharat in one of the famous ramlilas in Delhi. The Baghban actor believes that portraying our culture and tradition through staging plays on mythological stories will help in building family values among todays' generation. He says, "When you talk about culture and values, the ancient stories in Indian mythology show that good always prevails and evil is destroyed. Today's generation lacks family values because families are not very close. People are moving apart. Maybe watching the Ramayan, the story of Ram or the struggles of Sita can bring them together and make them understand the importance of family values."
 
 
 Proud of his fauji background, Aman thinks the discipline and grooming in Army makes you stand out. He shares, "Many actresses in Bollywood today have an army background. It teaches you to be disciplined, which is important to be successful in life. It’s the discipline, it's how things are taught to you and how you speak to people. Aapki grooming alag hi hoti hai. You can easily point out an army kid from a bunch of random people."
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Aman visits Agra regularly for professional commitments. He visited the Taj Mahal with his wife and spent memorable time with her inside the premises, but the crowd and lack of system inside the monument irks the actor. He shares, "Visiting the Taj Mahal is always special and it is beautiful, but there is no system there. Once people are inside the monument they do not follow a system. There is chaos, dhakka-mukki. I can’t understand, how difficult it is to maintain a line? I am very disturbed that in a monument like the Taj Mahal, which holds special stature worldwide, there is no system. It lends a negative image to our country because tourists from all over the world come to see the Taj and if we show them this, it is not good for our country's image."
 
 
 Aman has been a part of a number reality shows, both as a contestant and as a host. Talking about the genuineness of these shows, he has been a part of, he says, "Most of the shows I have been associated with were quite fair. I had hosted Indian Idol seasons 1 and 2. The contestants were genuinely picked from all over India. Even when I hosted Khullja Sim Sim, the gifts were fairly given to the contestants. In 'Bigg Boss', where I was a contestant, there were psychologists who come and meet you before you enter the house. So the psychologists know your personality, because they read you. They know how would Aman respond to a situation and perform in a task. If you consider that to be scripted, then this is the definition of being scripted because the psychologist has read you. However, I still don't think that it should be called scripted because they have given you a task and you have to perform it."
 
 
 Not just in Bollywood, Aman is quite a known name in regional cinema as well. He has acted in a few Punjabi films and thinks cinema of every kind should be supported by the government. He shares, "Every time a film is produced, the government should come out and support it. Beech mein humne suna tha UP government kuch subsidies de rahin hai, but usmein bhi kuch dhandli ho gayi thi. The problem in our country is there is so much corruption at every level that even if somebody wants to do some good, woh ghoom fir ke corruption ke wajah se ruk jata hai. Cinema of every kind should be supported. When a producer makes money, he will make more films and it will employ more people."
 
  
 
 
