Kochi: To promote eco-tourism village project, the district tourism promotion council here has decided to give a facelift to Kadambrayar tourism by introducing a range of boat services across the islands, including coracles, rafts and houseboats.

 DTPC had tried to popularize the destination in 2009. The authorities are now trying to revive the project through public-private partnership (PPP) model. In its nascent stage, they have introduced four coracles, a raft and a houseboat along with pedal boats (that was the only boating option available for tourists in the area earlier).
 
 “The first project flopped because of accessibility issues. Since the boating services were made available 7km from the nearest city, tourists could not travel with ease. The new project has been set up in such a way that it is accessible for Kakkanad and Kunnathunad township as well as for the Infopark crowd,” said Basil Baby, managing director of the service providers.
 
 “We are eyeing event meets in the houseboats. Birthdays, anniversary celebrations and even team lunches of IT project groups can be held in the houseboat that can accommodate approximately 25 people. The trend of hiring a houseboat for such events is catching up in the city,” Basil added.
 
 Along with houseboats, authorities said that the demand for coracle touring in the river was high. “As a coracle can accommodate maximum of five people, no lifeguard can be sent along. So life-jackets are the sole security measure that can be put at place for guests,” Basil said.
 
 However, sources said that lack of bathroom facilities for visitors is one of the major drawbacks the tourism initiative is facing presently. 
 
 “Maintenance of old walkway and proper lighting is required for a suitable working condition for the sector,” said a source familiar with the area.
 
 “Availability of homestays and hotels in the area will help boost eco-friendly boating tourism. Late-night boatings are also made available targeting young IT professionals,” he added. The service can also be availed for bird watching as it the migration season.
 
 
