Puducherry: The budget session of the legislative assembly of the Union territory of Puducherry will commence from May 16 with the customary address of lt governor Kiran Bedi amidst mounting tension between her and the elected government.

 Chief minister V Narayanasamy, who holds the portfolio of finance, will present the budget for financial year 2017-18 for the Union territory. He presented a vote on account for Rs 1,481.61 crore on March 30 to meet the expenses of the first quarter of the financial year 2017-18 as the Union government did not accord approval for the revised financial allocation sought by Puducherry government. 
 
 The MLAs cutting across party lines were up against Bedi accusing her of running a parallel government and a section of MLAs went on to the extent of urging the house to adopt a resolution seeking the Union government to recall her.
 
 Narayanasamy, who told reporters on May 6 on the commencement of budget session from May 16 said the house will pass the Goods and Services Tax bill. 
 
 He said Puducherry has become the first in the country to disburse monthly financial assistance to the senior citizens, widows and destitute and differently abled people at their doorsteps in coordination with the banks. 
 
 “We plan to cover 20,000 beneficiaries through Puduvai Bharathiar Grama Bank and another 30,000 through the Indian Bank under the pilot project in May and later extend to all beneficiaries from June covering all beneficiaries in all parts of the Union territory,” he said.
 
 He said the government will initiate appropriate efforts to rescue the fishermen from the territory, who have been languishing at prisons in Sri Lanka after being arrested by the Sri Lankan navy on charges of trespassing into their region. 
 
 He said he will raise the issue on the frequent arrest of Indian fishermen by the Sri Lanka navy and confiscation of their boats in a meeting convened by Union external affairs minister Sushma Swaraj on May 8 at New Delhi. “Fourteen fishermen from Karaikal were languishing in prisons in Sri Lanka,” he said.
 
 Replying to a query, Narayanasamy said holding local body polls in the Union territory is delayed as a case relating to reservation of BC is pending before the Madras High Court. 
 
 Polls to the local bodies were last held in 2006 after a gap of 38 years following a direction from Madras High Court. The tenure of the local body representatives expired in 2011 and the local bodies became defunct as the government did not hold the polls for the last five years.
 
 
