Chennai: TVS Motor, Tata Motor, Bosch and Mahindra & Mahindra top the list of R&D-led innovators in the automobile industry in India though the sector as a whole comes in at 7th position in terms of patents published, lower than food and fermentation. 

 According to a report by Clarivate Analytics, the four Indian auto innovators feature among the top 15 Indian innovators, though no Indian company makes it to the global 100 list. Globally though the top ten innovator list is dominated by Japanese auto majors with the likes of Honda and   featuring prominently.
 
 The good news, overall patent publication in India is among the highest in key Asian economies behind China, Japan and South Korea. India also has the highest growth of 26% among key Asian economies in published patent volumes.
 
 In automobiles, Indian R&D and innovation is largely focused on vehicle construction, mileage and emission, said Arvind Pachhapur,   Head, Clarivate Analytics. “In India the most amount of patent published are in the general vehicle category focused on vehicle body structure and construction,” he said. “The second highest focus is on fuel supply and how to improve power, efficiency and mileage. The third is on exhaust related issues, mostly concerned with emissions.” TVS,  , Bosch and Mahindra & Mahindra grab the top four slots in terms of the number of patents published in the automobile industry. Globally, though, the concerns are quite different for automobile innovators. “Globally the fastest growing segment is connected vehicles, navigation, entertainment and safety all of which tie into the ultimate aim of a driverless vehicle,” said Pachhapur. “Indian companies too are investing in connected vehicles and navigation technologies but their footprint in those areas is much smaller,” he added.
 
 In India, the basic vehicle structure and construction including vehicle design, use of lighter polymers and better materials is a focus area for automobile OEMs. 
 
 Transmission controls, brake controls, tyres and special vehicles such as railways, cycles, ships and aircrafts also command a significant number of patent focus, said the report. Going by articles published in a specific area of innovation, growth in innovation in automobile/transportation sector has been 25-30% although the automobile sector contributed to about 5 of the innovations happening in India. The automobile industry ranks 7th in the patent pecking order which is topped by polymers/plastics industry followed by computing, pharma, telecommunications, electric power/engineering and food /fermentation.
 
