After wrapping up major portions of  's period drama, ' ', late last month,   dived into prep for his wedding. Neil will tie the knot with   on February 9 and the celebrations began last night with a Sufi performance in Udaipur. This will be followed by an engagement ceremony today and the sangeet on February 8. Neil reached the Lake City on Sunday, his bride arrived the following day.

  
  
 "I've always believed that a marriage is a coming together of two families and we're looking forward to spending time together. Right now we're busy welcoming the guests, soon I'll rush to get ready for the evening,' an excited Neil informed, looking forward to hearing his father, veteran singer Nitin Mukesh, croon some of his evergreen hits with his troupe later in the night. He himself will be singing at the sangeet on February 8. "But I won't reveal what will I sing as I want to keep that a surprise for Rukmini," he laughed.
 
 It's an arranged match but the groom admitted he'd fallen in love with Rukmini at first sight. "The moment I saw her I knew she was the one. I just hoped she is as perfect in every way as she seemed. And after spending time with her in the last five months I must admit she is the most genuine person," he asserted long distance.
 
 Interestingly, like Shahid Kapoor and Amrita Rao in  's 'Vivah', Neil and Rukmini were always surrounded by their respective families after the rishta was finalised.
 
 "We went out to dinner only once and it will remain the most cherished moment for us," insisted the 35-year-old actor who will be living out his childhood dream of going down on one knee to propose to his lady love who loved him in  's 'New York', Abbas Mustan's 'Players',  's 'Lafangey Parindey' and Sriram Raghavan's ' ' which remains her all time favourite. On the big day, in true filmi style, Neil will arrive on a chariot while Rukmini will enter in a doli.
 
 There will be a grand reception in Mumbai on February 17 but the honeymoon will have to wait as Neil is slated to begin shooting for  's 'Golmaal Again' and also finish Madhur's film after the nuptials.
 
 Will Rukmini accompany him to the sets? "I will ask her if she wants to," he maintained in a hurry to get back to the revelry.
 
 But before he left he informed that though he has bought a new apartment in Andheri he doesn't plan to move in there with the Mrs. "That'll be my work home as its closer to shoots. Rukmini and I will be staying with our family in our town house," he signed off.
 
  
  
 
 
 
