CHENNAI: Asserting its commitment to providing all support to the   in order to help them lead a normal life, the state government on Thursday announced a detailed   to ensure complete coverage of the community under various  .

 In an effort to improve the quality of life for them, finance minister D Jayakumar, while presenting the budget, announced the allocation to the department for differently-abled increased by 17.68% over the revised budget estimates to Rs 466 crore for 2017-18. About 11.79 lakh people in Tamil Nadu have got the disability certificates from the state so far.
 
 Currently , the state extends maintenance allowance of Rs 1,500 a month to the severely orthopedically affected people, and those with muscular dystrophy and the mentally challenged. “Now, we propose to extend this enhanced monthly maintenance allowance of Rs 1,500 to people cured of leprosy but have suffered permanent disability,“ the minister said. The number of retrofitted-scooters too will be increased to 2,000 per annum from the existing 1,000.
 
 Tamil Nadu Association for the Rights of All Types of Differently Abled secretary S Namburajan said no mention of increase in monthly al lowance for the entitled was a disappointment. “Given the economy, we have been demanding the allowance hiked to Rs 3,000, but the government remains firm to not increase. There is a huge section which will be benefitted,“ he said. When the number of eligible differently-abled in each district hovers around 60,000, the activists say, the beneficiaries under the scooter scheme too should have been increased.
 
 For the first time, the state has proposed to offer motorised mobility assistive devices to 1,000 people affected by muscular dystrophy and paraplegia. Skill development training will be imparted to 10,000 differently abled in all the districts, and a pilot project for screening new born babies to identify hearing impairment in Chennai and Sivanganga districts. However, Nethrodaya founder C Govindakrishnan contended the previous announcements such as DVD players, recorders, and smart canes to 5,000 were still not implemented in full vigour. “We hope this year's announcement of 10,000 smart canes launched fast,“ he said.
 
