Vasco: Mormugao Municipal Council (MMC) on Tuesday demolished 55 residential dwellings and two temples at Baina which were erected on private land.

 The demolition was carried out in the presence of a police force and no untoward incident was reported. The land, admeasuring 900 sqm, was owned by the confraria of the   parish who sold it to Anand Bose Constructions Pvt Ltd in 2009.
 
 In 2012, the MMC served the occupants of these dwellings with notices to vacate the structures. The residents appealed before different authorities including the high court of Bombay at Goa. When the matter was taken up before the deputy collector’s court through an appeal for regularisation of illegal structures, the authority stated that the land owner should grant permission for it.
 
 “The builder refused to grant permission for regularisation and so the appeal was rejected. Demolition orders were issued twice by the office of the collector, South Goa. As there are many agencies involved in the demolition process, and the time was insufficient, local authorities asked for more time,” a MMC official said.
 
 Agnelo Fernandes, who is currently holding additional charge as MMC chief officer, said “There were 56 structures of which 55 were demolished today. The high court had given a stay on one structure, so we have not touched that.” Around 250 police personnel were deployed at the site. 
 
 Marawwa John, a local resident, said, “We have been living here for over 30 years. This government shows that it’s only meant for the welfare of the corporates and the common man has no rights whatsoever. Nobody is safe. The church sold the land to the builder, and the builder with the help of state machinery demolished our houses. Our plea was never considered, no rehabilitation given and the government supported the demolition.”
 
 Another occupant, Amelina D’Souza, said, “The church should have had some compassion and not sold the land to the builder. We are not fighting, but just praying that God punishes the guilty.”
 
 
