JALANDHAR: Vigilance Bureau has summoned senior   leader Tikshan Sud’s son Javed Sud and his old partner for questioning in connection with the transfer of Rs 2.50 crore to a firm, which was once co-owned by him, by Hoshiarpur resident Parteek Gupta. Parteek had received inflated compensation of over Rs 15.5 crore from  .

 The firm was earlier being run by Sud and his partner but was later shifted to Gupta. 
 
 VB officials confirmed that Javed and his partner Akhil Sood have been summoned for questioning on Monday. Parteek was arrested from IGI airport Delhi when he was trying to fly abroad after a look out circular was issued against him by the VB. 
 
 During his questioning by the sleuths of Economic Offences Wing, Parteek revealed that he had transferred Rs 2.50 crore to S S Engineering. He also claimed that he had purchased the firm from the duo for which payment was made after receiving compensation from  .
 
 When contacted, Javed said he and his former partner were summoned by the VB as witnesses. “We owned this firm but had transferred it to Gupta long time back. We did not receive any money from the proceeds of the compensation of the land acquisition,” he said. 
 
 Meanwhile, Panchukla resident Anju Aggarwal who hails from a rich business family, has also been summoned by VB for questioning on Friday. Like other buyers who purchased the land after a notification for its acquisition was announced, Aggarwal had purchased a piece of land just four days before announcement of the compensation. The land was purchased on her behalf by SAD municipal councillor Harpinder Gill and she received compensation of Rs 4.43 crore. The FIR registered by the EOW of VB mentioned her name and her role would be investigated. 
 
 The scam was exposed by Hoshiarpur-based RTI activist Rajiv Vashisht who, after procuring information sent a complaint to the Prime Minister and PMO, and had sought a report after which the then CM Parkash Singh Badal ordered an inquiry. VB mentioned in the FIR that excess compensation of Rs 58 crore was made to land owners by changing the type of land acquired after issuing the notification for acquisition of land for widening of the national highway between Jalandhar and Hoshiarpur.
 
