JALANDHAR: Aam Aadmi Party's (AAP) Punjab unit sought greater autonomy for itself from the central leaders in a meeting held in Jalandhar on Monday to analyse its performance in the recently concluded assembly elections.

 The meeting was attended by all candidates and MLAs and saw the passing of a resolution for `more autonomy' and restructuring of the unit. AAP finished with just 20 seats in the elections despite the euphoria initially in 2016.
 
 Sources in the party said this was a clear message to the leaders from Delhi that they were responsible for dismal show in the elections after surveys in early 2016 had given them nearly 100 of the 117 seats in the assembly.The result would have been different and had local leaders been given more say in crucial decisions during campaigning, many leaders felt. They also said that the party made a mistake by not projecting a chief ministerial candidate.
 
 Emerging after the meeting with other leaders, Punjab unit convener   said the common sentiment was that leaders from Punjab should lead the unit “strongly“. Asked if they would convey this to the central leadership, he said, “We respect our   (PAC) and will table our suggestions before them. Although I must point out that the Punjab unit is working independently without interference from Delhi.“ He also said that the state unit would be restructured.Waraich refused to blame any one particular leader from Delhi for the defeat and said the Delhi leaders were in Punjab only for the campaigning but somehow other parties gave out a wrong impression about them.
 
 The meeting was held at the residence of   candidate H S Walia and was attended by MPs Bhagwant Mann and Prof Sadhu Singh as well. Leader of the Opposition in the as sembly H S   and Mann left the meeting before the resolution for personal reasons.
 
 It was in the presence of the senior leaders that party candidates vented out their resentment against Delhibased leaders also and blamed their strategy for the debacle. MLAs Kanwar Sandhu and Sukhpal Khaira refused to comment on the meeting, saying Waraich had already made a statement.Sources, however, said both leaders were vocal in the meeting and criticized the func tioning of certain leaders from Delhi.
 
 At the meeting, some candidates suggested that a resolution be passed about all the issues and were supported by others after which Khaira read out the resolution which first thanked Delhi leaders for their earnest efforts and sought “autonomy and restructuring“. The resolution was then unanimously passed.
 
 Mann, who left the meeting after his address, said leaders in Delhi would be consulted in the future as well.
 
