KOLKATA : An old father, who talks about his late son several times every day, did not mention him even once on Friday. A few kilometres away in a small room, a young daughter was inconsolable since morning, recalling her late mother.

 The elderly man has never met this young girl. The daughter has never seen the old father. But they are strung together with the grief of the loss of a very dear one and their struggle for closure.
 
 Girish Prasad Kandoi, 78, went about his daily chores of offering puja in the morning and seeing off his two grandsons to work without mentioning his son Ajay and daughter-in-law Sarita — who died in the   crash exactly a year ago — even once. “Not a single day passes without him speaking about my father and mother,” said  , 24, Ajay and Sarita’s elder son who now stays with his grandparents. “In every conversation, he would mention them, particularly my father. But he has been unusually silent today because this date is a crude reminder of of what he has lost. He is in an absolute state of shock,” said the grandson.
 
 Ajay would hardly visit any place without Sarita. On March 31, too, he insisted Sarita accompany him to enquire after his uncle who was admitted to a neighbouring hospital. Both of them were walking to the hospital when the   crashed on them. “Ma had lots of work that day but my father requested her to come along. They were planning to go somewhere in the evening too. Baba never went anywhere without Ma,” said younger son Nikhil. Ajay and Sarita were cremated side-by-side.
 
 Not very far from where Ajay and Sarita died, a young woman was trapped alive under the debris for over eight hours. Shabana Bano, 28, was going to fetch her son Imbroz from school when the flyover crashed on her. She had called at least two family members, including husband Serajuddin Farooque, to say she was trapped. But she could not be traced alive. Rescue workers found Shabana’s body at the crash site the day after. 
 
 On Friday, daughter Nausheen was inconsolable. Her younger brother Imbroz sobbed silently by her side. “Not a day passes without them asking why such a thing happened to their mother. The lives of these two children have completely changed. They have lost their anchor. Their father is struggling to manage them. The entire day they keep thinking of their mother,” said uncle   
 
 
