CHENNAI: In January, a TOI report had revealed that   could be 100 times dirtier than a toilet. The fact that your favorite restaurant's menu card could be a petri-dish of pathogens is enough to make one regard fast food joints with horror. Now a city-based microbiologist   has come up with a concoction of chemicals in pill as a solution to the   which plague the  . 

 Scientist turned enrepreneur Dave's startup Microgo has come up with tailor-made solutions to cleanse "common touch points" and "common objects" which shelter disease causing germs. The "common objects" could be anything from menu cards to place mats and table wipes, while the "common touch points" can range from door handles, to handrails and elevator buttons. How the tech works in sterilizing these surfaces is fairly simple. 
 
 For sterilizing detachable objects, the startup has deviced a capsule technology. Enclosed in a tablet, the capsule which is filled with chlorine dioxide gas in appropriate concentration cleans small objects like wipes and cutlery, which are reused. 
 
 "The objects are simply dropped into an airtight container or a ziplock bag. The capsule fumigates the contents for a couple of hours until it reaches an optimum level of sterilization," explains Rachna. 
 
 Similarly, for the touchpoints like stairway banisters, which cannot be sterilized in isolation, a   has been developed. The sticker when attached to these surfaces, not only sterilizes the surface after every use but also the user's hand when physical contact is initiated. 
 
 A silicon-based polymer builds its outer layer, while the sterilizing agent is stored inside it, which dispels the gas stored.
 
 The food industry, she says is rife with chemicals because of the constant movement of people carrying in and out waste, increasing the chances of contamination. "Pathogens like Staphylococcus aureus, E-coli and Enterobacteria are easily spread through these points of contact," says Rachna, whose solution s can be used by small eateries as well as restaurants to wipe off the hygiene concerns of customers. 
 
 Dave aims to plug sanitation gaps in the industry next. "It's high time we focus on providing hygienic services," says Rachna.
 
