LUCKNOW: After tomato, onions are ripping the monthly budget with an increase of up to 70% in its cost in the past couple of days. Until last week, onion was selling at Rs 15-18 per kg but this week it has reached Rs 25-30 per kg. As they are used in almost all dishes, rise in   of tomato and onions always disrupts the household budget.

 Wholesale price of onion has gone up from Rs 6-8 per kg to Rs 15-18 per kg. As per traders, the hike is because of incessant rains in  , from where the state and city gets maximum supply.
 
  Another major reason is GST (Goods and Services Tax). “Most of the transport companies have not revised their systems under GST so very few trucks are plying. Lack of carriage has hit supply, and in turn, the cost,” said Arvind, a wholesale vegetable dealer of Dubagga.
 
  “Also, because of monsoon, the transportation time has increased from three to five days, which turns onions stale. More than 30% of them are discarded because of poor quality,” said Sheraz Sadiq, another vendor.
 
  With seasonal   already selling at a relatively high price because of heavy rains in the producing states, the overall cost of raw vegetables has sky-rocketed in the city.
 
  Housewife Shruti Singh said, “Because of vegetables getting costlier, especially onions and  , the cost of each meal has gone up. Cooking chicken is cheaper than preparing a vegetarian dinner. Worst part is that though vegetables can be replaced by meat, there is no substitute for onions.”
 
  Bank employee Ritika Sharma said she has resorted to buying vegetables from wholesale market even though she has to buy a week’s quota in advance. “Shopping from mandi costs a little less than from street vendors, so I go to Dubagga mandi and buy whatever I want all at once,” she said.
 
  
 
 Though the cost of tomato has dropped in wholesale markets in the past few days, it continues to sell at Rs 100-120 per kg in the city. “For the past three days, tomatoes are selling at Rs 60-65 per kg in the wholesale market. Price dropped because supply is getting back to normal,” said Rizwan, wholesale trader.
 
