Nagpur: Things change with changing times. The way Sharad Pournima or Kojagiri is celebrated also seems to have embraced certain changes. The harvest festival celebrated on full moon day of the Hindu lunar month of Ashwin, is no longer an affair restricted to homes. Classical music and cultural programmes are being organized throughout the city in festive spirit. “Kojagiri essentially means ‘Ko jagrati’. The devi is known to descend upon earth and ask people, how aware are you about your surroundings and culture? Today issues like cleanliness, pollution and others hardly concern us all,” says Dr Apeksha Tare, a resident of Surendra Nagar. It is much believed that, the moonlight on the day of Kojagiri after midnight reflects medicinal rays, and hence the milk or kheer is kept under it. The kheer is consumed especially to heal asthmatic and other respiratory diseases.  Just like DJs have pervaded the music scene during garba, the state for musical shows during Kojagiri have also undergone a change in character, feels Tare. “Earlier, we used to draw an elephant and go around it holding hands and singing Bhulabai songs. We followed the tradition of keeping kheer/basundi under the moonlight to allow it to pass medicinal properties onto it. But not many people are able to do it,” she adds. Tare feels that the children of today need to be explained the scientific reason behind celebrations in order to generate an interest in them. ENT Surgeon Dr Naresh Agrawal feels that the celebrations for Sharad Pournima have become all the more popular. “I keep seeing get-togethers and small functions being arranged by groups and organizations. People see it as a chance to come together. It’s true that not everyone follows traditions like keeping milk/kher under the moonlight, but they are aware about it’s significance. Festive fervour takes over and everyone wants to celebrate it in a grand way,” he says, adding that even small children nowadays are aware how the festival is celebrated, even if not the significance behind it. Earlier, the celebrations were more homely, says Prakash Marwadkar, State-level member of Bharatiya Jain Sangathana. “In the past, joint families would come together and sit under the moonlight with kheer. Now, nuclear families are more and children and women have formed their own groups. Sharad Pournima is celebrated at a social-level with a slew of cultural programmes, having attendance of hundreds of people,” he says, adding that the youngsters may not know the importance of the day but know how to enjoy and celebrate. Perspectives change, and that’s not necessarily bad. We must change with changing times, he adds.