Hyderabad: Vijayawada-based low cost carrier  , which is owned by the LEPL group, on Tuesday said it has ‘temporarily’ suspended operations due to financial issues with its aircraft lessor -- GE Capital Aviation Services (GECAS). 

 Air Costa has grounded its two E190 (112 seats) jets that it was using to operate 16 daily flights to eight destinations -- Ahmedabad, Bengaluru, Visakhapatnam, Vijayawada, Jaipur, Chennai, Hyderabad and Tirupati. Though the airline had three Embraer jets, in November last year one of its aircraft was sent for maintenance and is yet to rejoin the fleet.
 
 “This is a temporary suspension due to certain financial issues going on with our lessor. We have grounded two aircraft based on mutual understanding with the lessor. We are trying to sort out these issues. We are also in advanced stages of talks with external investors… as soon as it materialises, we will resume operations…,” Kavi Chaurasia, vice-president (marketing and brand communication), Air Costa, told TOI. Pointing out that the three-year-old airline is hopeful of resuming operations partially from Thursday and completely by Friday, Chaurasia said that the affected customers have either been given a full refund of the flight ticket fare or have been accommodated on flights operated by other airlines depending on their choice. In fact, this is not the first time that Air Costa has had to suspend operations. In August 2016 too it had temporarily suspended operations due to issues with its lessor. On the factors responsible for the financial crunch, he said that for any airline, be it domestic or international, it takes around five years to break even, until which time the operational costs remain high. The airline, which took off in October 2013, received a license from the aviation regulator DGCA to operate pan-India flights in October 2016, following which it has been trying to tap an investor to pump funds into the company. The funds will be mainly used for acquiring new aircraft and adding new routes. 
 
 So far, Air Costa has been funded by its promoters, who during the launch, had indicated that they will be investing $100 million (around Rs 600 crore) in the airline. The airline’s promoter, the Vijayawada-based LEPL Group, has diversified interests in real estate, infrastructure development, hospitality, renewable energy and health sectors. LEPL group was founded by first generation entrepreneur LP Bhaskar Rao.
 
 
