AHMEDABAD/VADODARA/SURAT: Persons of Indian origin (PIOs) and overseas citizens of India (OCIs) feel left high and dry since they have been denied the grace period granted to non-resident Indians ( ) for depositing the scrapped currency notes of Rs 500 and Rs 1000.

 Worse, there appears no respite for them. An RBI official told TOI on Wednesday, “What’s there in the notification will be applicable.”
 
 This rules out any change in status of deposits by Indians living abroad.
 
 Several Gujaratis settled abroad are visiting the state during this holiday and wedding season. But they would be disappointed as depositing the limited cash they had in demonetized currency notes was on top of their to-do list.
 
 They are only now learning that the provision to deposit the old Rs 500 and Rs 1000 notes till June 2017 is limited only to NRIs.
 
 Mitaben Pandya of Surat, from Maryland, US, had brought Rs 25,000 in Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 notes on her trip to  .
 
 “I went to the RBI only to be turned away as I no longer hold an Indian passport. This is not fair,” she said.
 
 The difference between NRIs and the other two categories, PIOs and OCIs, is of citizenship.The former hold Indian passports while the latter are citizens of other countries. “My aunt Neha Desai boarded a flight from Virginia, US, and is reaching Ahmedabad on Wednesday. She would be crestfallen to know that she cannot exchange her Rs 30,000,” said her niece Urvi Desai.
 
 A Vadodara native from Wembley, Kiran Patel, who has a British passport, is stuck with Rs 27,500 cash in old currency. “I am a retired man; I need to exchange this money. I am an Indian and do not deserve this,” he complained.
 
 Shashwat Rai, from Addlestone, UK, was left with no choice but to leave behind Rs 18,000 in old Rs 500 currency notes. “I am leaving it here with a heavy heart, wondering why I should not be compensated,” Rai asked.
 
 In Ahmedabad, educationist Girish Patel has been struggling to deposit Rs 48,000 belonging to his daughter Rajvi, a US citizen settled in Los Angeles. His daughter had sent the money through a relative.
 
 Even as Patel visited the RBI with all the necessary documents, including a copy of his daughter’s passport, he was not allowed to exchange it. Patel was instead asked to go to the Mumbai RBI office. He has now sent the money to a relative in Surat to exchange it in Mumbai.
 
 Dr Anuradha Shukla from Germany, who is an   cardholder, was planning to visit Bengaluru. She timed it in January so that she could exchange her Rs 20,000 in the demonetised currency. “I am disappointed because it is hard-earned legal white money which I am now being forced to throw away.”
 
 
