SURAT: Southern Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SGCCI) is inching closer to realizing its dream of setting up the first-of-its-kind   at Pinjrat in   of Surat district. 

 Following the successful presentation on the project before the chief secretary to Gujarat government in Gandhinagar last week, the state government will be sending industries commissioner Mamta Verma for site survey and seek a viability report on it on April 17. SGCCI office-bearers said the presentation was prepared by IL&FS and that it was well received by the government officials. 
 
 For the mega textile park, the SGCCI has formed a special purpose vehicle (SPV)-Textile Processing Park Association (TPPA). It has also appointed 15 directors to head the SPV for the mega textile park. The park will be set up on 70 lakh square meter of land owned by the state government with an initial investment of Rs1,500 crore. The park will accommodate around 100 textile processing units, 40 water jet  , around 225 garmenting units and textile ancillary units. 
 
 The average capacity of manufacturing at the textile processing units will be over 3 lakh meters of fabric per day. Around 50 per cent of the fabric manufactured in the processing units will be converted into home textiles and garments. The rest will be sold outside the state. 
 
 At present, the textile sector contributes around 40 per cent of the   in the country, but its share in export is meagre, because the export market requires huge quantity of cloth of same quality which cannot be supplied by the processing units in Surat.
 
 SGCCI president B S Agarwal told TOI, “Issues relating to water availability for textile mills, disposal of waste water and electricity were discussed at length. The state government officials are convinced about the mega textile park and they will be sending a team headed by the industries commissioner on April 17.”
 
 Agarwal said the processing units in Surat are located in Pandesara, Kadodara, Palsana and Sachin industrial, each having one  . At present, all CETPs are working to its fullest capacity and they are not allowed to expand, because they do not have further capacity to dispose of the effluent. Thus, these processing units could be shifted to the mega textile parks.
 
