HYDERABAD: The usually quiet precincts of the   ( ) suddenly perked up on Tuesday morning with news spreading that   would be arriving there to file his nomination for elections of the cricket body on January 17, the validity of which is unclear.

 The 53-year-old former Indian captain filed his nomination for the post of president and secretary.
 
 The former India captain was banned by the   (BCCI) for match-fixing in December 2000, but was exonerated by the Andhra Pradesh High Court in 2012. The   has not challenged the verdict in a higher court. Azhar was recently seen in the company of other former Indian captains when they had congregated in Kanpur to celebrate India's 500th Test match.
 
 Azhar himself was unfazed by buzz surrounding his nomination. “The Supreme Court has started the process of cleaning up the game and I feel it's the right time to do something for the improvement of cricket. Hyderabad cricket has suffered a lot in the last two decades. At one point in time, we seven players in the Indian team. Now we are struggling to find a single player to don the Indian jersey,“ Azhar said after filing his nomination from National Cricket Club (NCC).
 
 “I don't want to name anyone but unfortunately things haven't been too well with Hyderabad cricket. Wherever I go, I am asked about the prevailing state of affairs. I feel embarrassed when people point out all the wrong things that are happening here. I don't want to dwell on the past but am looking forward to serving the game if given an opportunity,“ he added.
 
 Incidentally, the ad hoc committee of the HCA had unanimously adopted all the recommendations made by the Lodha panel at its SGM on Nov 20. As such the elections, it is understood, are being conducted according to the Lodha panel recommendations. The election notification issued by the advocate commissioner appointed by the Ranga Reddy District Court says, “The present notification is issued in consonance to the recommendations of the Justice Lodha committee and Supreme Court judgment.“
 
 Azhar's entry has definitely queered the pitch for many. HCA secretary John Manoj termed the whole `election' process a “sham“. The `election' is consequent to the vaqalatnama filed by an ad hoc panel in the district court.
 
 “The order passed by the V Additional Districts & Sessions Judge, Ranga Reddy District, in appointing an Advocate Commissioner to conduct the elections to the Hyderabad Cricket Association appears to be in contravention of the Supreme Court judgement. Prakash Chand Jain filed a vaqalatnama on behalf of the HCA illegally and unlawfully and given his consent wrongly for conducting the elections,“ he said.
 
 Manoj has filed a review petition in High Court, which will come up for hearing on Wednesday. Asked why some members of the ruling dispensation have also filed their nomination, the HCA secretary said it was to ensure the process won't turn out to be a unanimous affair.
 
 Azhar, it may be recalled, had been left stumped on 99 Tests following the match-fixing saga. Will he now be allowed to start a fresh innings as administrator?
 
 
