INDORE: While   ( ) has been taking regular action against   in the city and demolishing their illegal houses, the opposition has now raised concern and asked for alternate arrangements for those whose houses are demolished. 

  “We are not supporting the rearing of animals in the city, but this sort of behaviour by the civic body is not justified, they should make alternate arrangements for those who are getting displaced,” said IMC leader of opposition  . 
 
 Alim said that the civic body should make proper arrangement for the displaced and licences should be given to people who want to carry out such businesses. Also, they should be regulated. 
 
 “The city also needs these cattle, they provide necessary items to it, removing them are not the right thing to do,” said Alim. 
 
 Alim also said that the problem in the city has come up due to ignorance of the civic body. She alleged that when these structures were coming up, the civic body did not stop them and now after so many years they are razing them, which is not justified. The opposition also demanded regulation of the meat shops and adequate amenities to ensure selling of meat in hygienic condition.
 
 “The civic body has also not constructed a slaughter house near the city, they have to speed up the work,” said Alim. 
 
 The IMC started taking action against cattle owners in the city after a civic body worker was stabbed to death in February. 
 
 The opposition during the general body meeting of the civic body had also raised similar concerns. 
 
 The Mayor, however, said that that the civic body has issued guidelines for rearing cattle and they were working according to that. The drive was being carried out according to the rules. 
 
 The cattle owners had also approached the chief minister after and agreed to take the cattle out, the drive against cow owners were stopped after that. 
 
 However, Indore Municipal Corporation after that carried out demolition drives against the pigs and owners of other animals.
 
