HYDERABAD: For the first time in the country, Andhra Pradesh will soon come up with about 20 walk-to-work-in-10 minutes towns along the   and the Bangalore-Chennai Industrial Corridor.
As many as two lakh housing units for the economically weaker sections (EWS), low income groups (LIG), middleincome groups (MIG) and high-income groups (HIG) will be constructed.
 
 According to sources, AP government is mulling to build five townships in   (PPP) mode. It has received 16 proposals from private players. The   (MAUD) department issued a GO on January 2 this year to facilitate the walk-to-work-in-10-minutes economic township project at   village on the outskirts of Vijayawada. It will have residential, commercial and institutional land uses on 265 acres. In the next phase, about 400 acres will be added. About 18,000 jobs are expected to be created near Jakkampudi. The Jakkampudi town will have about 2,000 in dustrial units, which include IT-related and electronics companies. The townships will be cities in their own right with facilities like hospitals, schools and malls.
 
 Four such walk-to-work towns are in the offing in Visakhapatnam. Visakhapat nam south township, falling under   (SCZ), will be built on 388 acres with about 24,000 units over nine floors. Visakhapatnam north township will be constructed on 300 acres with 75,000 residential units. “One important feature of this township will be location of a cancer research institute. It will be constructed by private players. Many private players are interested in setting up this township,“ said a top AP government official.
 
 Officials said the state government also received proposals of interest from 16 private players in Vijayawada, Rajahmundry , Guntur, Kurnool and Visakhapatnam. AP government will also rope in Jurong and Surbana, the Singaporebased consultants, for the preparation of blueprints. The townships are mostly modelled on the lines of Singapore's walk-to-work town Chau Chu Kang, called as CCK City.
 
