PATNA: Governor-cum-chancellor   has convened a meeting of the newly appointed   (VC) and pro-VCs of all the universities of the state at the   on Tuesday to discuss their problems and ways to overcome them.

 The VCs have been asked to highlight the problems of their respective universities through PowerPoint presentations so that a thorough discussion can be held on the issues raised. They are also expected to give their own suggestions for improving the situation,” said a Raj Bhavan source and added the chancellor would preside over the meet which would be attended by education minister Ashok Kumar Choudhary, principal secretary to the governor, director of higher education, education department principal secretary and special secretary.
 
 Academics, however, are not very hopeful of the outcome of the meeting. They point out that at least two such high-level meetings of the VCs and the education department officials have been held at the Raj Bhavan before — one in January and another one in June last year. A number of high-sounding decisions were taken at both the meetings, but none of them has been implemented in any university till date.
 
 “The VCs had decided to introduce choice-based credit system and semester system, ensure timely completion of courses and exams, develop university websites and promote e-learning. They had also been asked to make a permanent arrangement for disposal of all problems related to promotion and payment of retirement benefits to the teachers and the non-teaching staff. However, nothing happened,” a source said, adding the VCs had also emphasized upon strengthening of student welfare committees and grievance redressal mechanisms with a view to solving the problems of students.
 
 Another decision which could not be implemented was that the universities were asked to submit their utilization certificates in time for ensuring timely receipt of the government grants. They were also advised to accelerate the process of getting their colleges accredited by the   so that they could make proper use of the grants sanctioned by the   and the Rashtriya Uchchtar Shiksha Abhiyan.
 
 “None of the above decisions could be implemented by the university. The academic sessions of all the varsities, except the Patna University, are still irregular and no university has not been able to submit its utilization certificate on time,” said a senior teacher.
 
 
