NAGPUR: In last two years of BJP rule in   (NMC), the   very rarely. The opposition corporators created ruckus in the well of the House over some issue or the other, which allowed mayor Pravin Datke to clear large number of proposals without any discussion. These misdirected protests only helped BJP as it was not taken to task over numerous issues. In fact no discussion was held on policy issues.

 One of such issues was non-payment of Rs132 crore royalty by Starbus operator Vansh Nimay Infrastructure Limited (VNIL) to NMC. VNIL claimed that it had not been refunded the concession amount provided to students and hence it was not paying any royalty. BJP did not bother to get the accounts tallied for verifying this claim. Congress, NCP and BSP too were equally nonchalant about the non-payment of dues.
 
 Earlier this month, NMC handed over 75 acre land worth around Rs180 crore to Pune-based Symbiosis   for setting up its off-campus centre even before obtaining mandatory approval from the state government and execution of agreement. Moreover, even though NMC gave its land to Mahametro (earlier NMRCL) at ready reckoner rates, Symbiosis was given land at extremely nominal rates. The opposition corporators never raised this issue.
 
 The Suresh Bhat auditorium was to be built at a cost of Rs30 crore but it shot up to Rs70 crore. BJP-led government obtained this additional Rs40 crore by reducing expenses on other heads, which surprisingly never faced any opposition from Congress, NCP and BSP.
 
 BJP effectively increased property tax in 2015-16 but the higher taxes will have to be paid from 2017-18 (after NMC elections are over). You will also have to pay the difference in taxes for the years 2015-16 and 2016-17 along with the tax for 2017-18. This decision was taken only to avoid the ire of people during 2017 NMC elections. While opposition leaders in NMC grumbled about BJP’s chicanery, they did not raise the issue in the House.
 
 Other important issues not raised in NMC House include accepting   (ESR) of the city without necessary corrections, promotion of tainted and undeserving junior engineers (JEs), etc. The list is in fact endless.
 
 It is not that the opposition members did not raise issues. However, either they raised an issue repeatedly or in the process to protest small issues they let BJP get away with bigger issues. The misplaced priorities of the opposition can be gauged from the fact that ruckus over demonetisation decision of central government led to disruption of NMC House proceedings. Water supply operator OCW was a pet issue for the opposition and they overdid it at the cost of other problems.
 
