BENGALURU: ICICI  's decision to deny mediclaim for a city-based woman post an ovarian surgery came under criticism from a local consumer court.The court has now ordered them to settle her hospital bills and pay compensation.

 The case was filed by 33-year-old   at the third Additional Bangalore Urban District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum in February 2016 after she was denied a mediclaim from her insurance policy in what the court termed was on “flimsy grounds“.
 
 
 
 
 Savitha's ordeal began in September 2015 when she suffered severe vaginal bleeding and approached one Dr Anuradha B S at the Narayana Hrudayalaya hospital in Bengaluru.Diagnosed with an ovarian cyst, the doctor fixed a surgery for her on December 4, 2015 which she informed ICICI Lombard.
 
 The company approved an initial sum of Rs 30,000 towards her mediclaim policy while she was eligible for up to Rs 5 lakh and an additional Rs 1.5 lakh. The policy was renewed by Savitha with ICICI in July 2015 after she was granted a cash-free treatment in 2012 when she suffered neuro damages in a road accident.
 
 Confident after initial approval from ICICI, Savitha went under the knife only to be let down at the time of her discharge from hospital. The letter from the insurance firm denying the cash claim came as a blow to Savitha. Finally, her husband arranged money to settle her hospital bills.
 
 DECLINED LAST MINUTE
 
 Despite submitting documents on detailed course of hospitalization and indoor case papers on the surgery as demanded by the insurance company, ICICI staff repudiated the claim, stating the customer had furnished false details and didn't disclose history of pre-existing disease.
 
 Angered by the sudden switch by her insurer, the Bengaluru woman took ICICI Lombard to consumer court, which heard claims from both sides for nearly 18 months.
 
 
 
 
 A crucial medical report by Dr   on her patient Savitha read that in 2012 the complainant underwent a neuro-interventional surgery following a road accident and is no way related to her present ailment which is a complex ovarian cyst, a condition in women which is unpredictable.
 
 Citing the medical report, the judges slammed ICICI Lombard, stating Savitha was denied her rightful mediclaim on flimsy grounds despite submitting necessary documents.
 
 The court also pointed out that the same firm had given cashless claim in 2012 for the woman during her first medical situation and knew well about her condition, but deliberately denied her rightful claim the second time without proper assessment.
 
 In a ruling in favour of Savitha in end of August, the court ordered ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company to reimburse her hospital fee of Rs 78,680 and pay her Rs 30,000 for causing mental agony apart from Rs 5,000 towards litigation.
 
