VISAKHAPATNAM: With cash once again available in majority of the ATMs in the city, the initial euphoria of using   and digital payments appears to be waning. Kirana shops, fast food joints, retail outlets, supermarkets and fuel outlets are noticing that payments through cards and mobile wallets have been on the decline during the last month.

 According to supermarket sources, card and mobile wallet payments peaked to around 80% of the total business transaction during November and December due to shortage of cash. However, during the last one month,   are making their way back and are currently at 50% of the total business transaction. 
 
 “Customers who are involved in making purchases of more than Rs 2,000-3,000 are preferring to pay by cards whereas others are opting for cash. We are seeing a decline in card transactions as customers are returning to the earlier habit of paying by cash,” observed the store manager of a supermarket in Siripuram.
 
 At the same time, kirana shop owners, who had introduced mobile wallet payments, are also noticing a similar trend. Kirana shopowner Bucchi Ramana of Pedawaltair said, “Nowadays, people are paying only cash. Only one or two customers pay go for mobile wallet. On a daily basis, it is just around Rs 200-300 payments through mobile wallets. Earlier, I had seen payments of nearly Rs 4,000-5,000 per day through mobile wallets itself during the two months after demonetisation.”
 
 “Some of the vendors are charging 2% extra on the bill amount saying that the bank is levying charges on them,” observed  , a resident of Visalakshi Nagar. He said, “Even though we are ready to use the card, they are charging extra for that so why spend more unnecessarily? We can rather pay by cash. The initial publicity for   has come down now and people are also not bothered about paying by card.”
 
 Similarly, a food truck owner at MVP Colony,   said, “We are still giving the option of mobile wallet, but prefer cash. If we use the mobile wallet, then we have pay transaction charges for sending it to our bank account. If government is serious about promoting cash less transaction, then they should forego these charges on online transactions.”
 
