BENGALURU: Dense fog on Wednesday morning at the   ( ) resulted in a massive disruption of flights. The foggy conditions further affected flights that had already been rescheduled, owing to the ongoing air show at the  .

 Operations were suspended at KIA from 6.47am to 8.05am.As many as 22 departures were delayed, in addition to 21 arrivals. Ten flights were diverted to airports in Hyderabad and Chennai. “Airlines had been instructed to reschedule their flights in view of Aero India 2017. But the fog on Wednesday was unusual, and it created disruption. Everyone -airlines, passengers -were caught offguard,“ said an airport official.
 
 Indigo passengers were stuck inside the aircraft for more than three hours. However, what infuriated passengers was the alleged lack of proper communication from their respective airlines on the status of the flights. The passengers of Indigo 6E 346, scheduled to leave for Mumbai at 9.30am, were the worst hit. One of the flight's passengers, Sneha Walke told TOI, “We received the boarding pass, which said the departure time was 9.55am.We had to wait at the terminal till noon. When we boarded the aircraft at 1.30pm, it came to an abrupt halt when it was taxiing towards the runway. The pilot informed us there were issues with traffic clearance that had to be sorted out. We could see other aircraft taking off, while ours didn't.“
 
 The crew members' alleged refusal to inform them of the problem added to the passengers' annoyance. “We were told the flight would take off at 2pm, but it didn't. We were growing impatient, since nothing was being explained properly ,“ said another passenger. The passengers were bewildered when they saw the pilot and crew members leaving the flight, to be replaced by others. “There were kids and senior citizens on the flight. Most of us were exhausted and hungry , and we were given just a packet of biscuits and cashewnuts. We were not even given meals. The plane finally took off at 5.30pm and reached Mumbai at 7.10pm. We were inside the aircraft for more than three hours,“ Sneha complained.
 
 Indigo director (corporate communications), Ajay Sahai Jasra attributed the delay to inclement weather and technical errors. “First, there was the fog that affected flight schedules.We had a small window to take off and were in the queue. While the flight was waiting, we realized that the pilot's duty hours were over. We then had to summon a pilot from the city. The flight took off after he came and took charge,“ Jasra told TOI.
 
