NAGPUR: Union surface transport minister Nitin Gadkari on Friday said he wants   of Management-Nagpur (IIM-N) to not just become the topmost B-school in India but also of the world. The Lok Sabha MP from the city assured the IIM-N authorities of providing all the infrasturture and support required for making IIM-N an institution of international repute.

 He was speaking during the first convocation ceremony of the premier institutes at VNIT auditorium. 
 
 “The state government and I want IIM-N to become a global institute. Large number of students from here have to go to Pune, Mumbai and Bangalore for quality higher education. So it is our endeavour to provide such education closer home. Recently, Symbiosis was provided land at Rs 1 on lease for 30 years. Nagpur will provide quality human resource to the nation,” he said. 
 
 He added that the city has 42 engineering colleges and it’s well-known for LIT. “These institutes have produced some really good managers and entrepeunuers. One of my classmates recently visited from the US. He pledged Rs 500 crore for setting up convention centre to groom local talent,” he said.
 
 Gadkari said he believed that conversion of knowledge into wealth holds key for India. 
 
 He recalled the development in the central government to explain the importance of management and decision making. “When this government took over the revenue was Rs 13,000 crore. Now it is Rs 20,000 lakh crore. After GST roll out, it will reach Rs 28 lakh crore. 
 
 “The PM allocated Rs 4000crore for regional connectivity and personally asked me to ensure the funds are utilized. I am using them for developing airports, seaports for seaplanes and heliports. When I proposed this, officials were surprised. 
 
 “We are building roads. I take 200 years guarantee for Nagpur roads. I could do this work because I took decisions,” he said, adding that management is the key.
 
 IIM-N chairman CP Gurnani, IIM-Ahmedabad director Ashish Nanda, IIM-N director LS  , manager communications Deepak Bhatt and others members of the IIM society were present. 
 
 Gurnani said, “Dreaming is easy, executing is tough.  , WhatsApp were not new concepts when they were launched. Someone had dreamed of them much before. The difference was some people executed on their dreams. Each one of you have the power to conceive and execute positive change.”
 
 Nanda thanked Gadkari, the CM  , the teaching and non-teaching staff of IIM-N for their support in the smooth functioning of the institute.
 
 Murthy asked the graduating students to stay in touch and keep visiting IIM-N whenever possible. “Prioritize what you want. Carefully choose the path. People are important in your journey,” he told the students. 
 
 Toppers speak
 
 It was a new institute so we had to do everything from the scratch. We believe IIM-N has the potential to be at the top in a few years. I want to work in development sector. But, I also want to learn further. I would like to study how infrastructure development impacts rural urban migration. . I wanted to be part of public policymaking and had attempted for civil services but couldn’t make it
 
 Soumit Mishra | IIM-N Gold Medalist for Scholastic Performance
 
 After working for sometime, I wish to pursue higher studies and complete PhD. Later, I would return to academics. During these two year, I was handling the cultural and marketing clubs of IIM-N. This gave a lot of exposure and honed negotitinng skills. I am from Ahmedabad. So coming out of my comfort zone I made new friends and it was a great experience. 
 
 Dhruv Bharatbahi Suchak | Best All Rounder 
 
 
