NEW DELHI: The student collective   organised a ‘Jan Sunwai’ at Delhi University’s Arts Faculty to voice its opinion about the condition of women in PGs and the discrimination they face. In the event, women were called to speak about the “problems they face in their daily lives.”

 The members of Pinjra Tod said that lack of   for women in DU has forced many students to reside in PGs where they are forced to pay exorbitant rents. Ishani Banerjee, a third year political science student at  , said that she was forced to pay Rs 15,000 for her flat in   where she lived for two years.
 
 While many pay that much to be near the college, others have to live far away from their colleges to save money. The students also raised concerns over the poor food quality, infrastructure issues, and a general lack of security for the girls.
 
 Banerjee said that she faced harassment from the PG owners who made rules saying that she had to be back in her room by 7.30pm, failing which she was locked out. “It was only after pleading and crying that I was allowed in,” she said. She also revealed that at times she did not have clean drinking water, and that all her complaints were of no avail.
 
 Most of the students speaking at the event also raised security concerns at their accommodations. Along with the moral policing that they face at the hands of PG owners, some students claimed that “men masturbate near the areas where many girls lived,” which made the girls very uncomfortable.
 
 Sneha KS, a student of political science from DU, said that at her PG in Malkagunj, biometric sensors were used to monitor the timings of her entry and exit to and from the hostel and would be sent to my parents,” thereby creating a situation where she felt spied upon.
 
 The student group has called for a standardisation of rates and regulations of PGs and a “recommended list of PGS” for the girls. The group members also called for a gender sensitisation programme for PG owners. On International Working Women’s Day, the group has organised a march to the UGC office on March 8.
 
 RAJESH MEHTA
 
 
