BHOPAL: Farmers in 575 villagers across three districts in Madhya Pradesh have united against the Rs 17,000-crore Chutka-nuclear power plant project, citing it as disastrous to their development.

 A major protest rally is being organised by project affected villages from Mandla,   and   districts under the banner of Chutka Parmanu Virodhi Sangarsh Samiti from October 2 to December 17. Earlier Kunda village, one of the three affected by the project on the banks of  , had passed resolutions rejecting the government proposal to set up the nuclear plant.
 
 “Villagers had made written submissions in their banks that no deposits should be allowed in their accounts, despite that the state government has deposited compensation money. All 575 villages surrounding the proposed site have decided to protest,” said Navratna Dubey, Samiti’s secretary.
 
 Several organisations and social activists, including  , have raised their voice against the proposed nuclear power plant.
 
 The site is about 100km from Jabalpur and the famous marble rock formations on the Narmada and a mere 35k from Kanha national park. Most of those affected are tribals, who were earlier displaced by the ‘Bargi Dam’ in the 1990s. Being displaced again rankles them.
 
 Rajkumar Sinha, convener of an organisation says on one hand, the government claims it is trying to save Narmada and on other it is allowing a nuclear plant on its banks.”
 
 Sinha and other protesters claim that the Centre and state government have joined hands to push ahead with the project, ignoring its “dangerous consequences”.
 
 Multiple organisations from Bhopal and other areas had been campaigning against the project by distributing booklets and handbills with information about nuclear power plants and their disasters elsewhere in the world.
 
 In 2014, Nuclear Power Corporation of India Limited had declared the Chutka plant safe. An environmental impact assessment report filed by the corporation says the project is in the low seismic activity zone-II and is “environmentally benign, techno-economically viable and sustainable”.
 
