PUNE:   across the city now have a new reason to rejoice. 

 A   and an increase in imports over the last three months has brought down the   Traders estimate that the rates could fall even further in the days ahead.
 
 The most substantial drop in prices is of chana dal, which is now selling at Rs 75 per kg in the consumer market almost 37% lower than just ten days ago.   have also reduced, making not only the common man happy, but also restaurants and bulk food suppliers. 
 
 The fall in prices is the result of large-scale import of pulses as explained by data shared by the India Pulses and Grain Association (IPGA). It shows that there has been an overall increase of 30% over the same period in 2015.
 
 Critically, the import of tur dal has risen by nearly three times from 2015 to 2016, which has ensured adequate supply of the variety in the market, thus helping to stabilise both wholesale and retail prices despite muted domestic production last year.
 
 The total importing of masur and moong dals was much lower in 2016 compared to the previous year, primarily because of a good domestic harvest and thus higher domestic stock. This also indicates imports are in line with the demand on ground.
 
 Statistics also reveal a significant jump in the import of yellow peas over 60%. 
 
 According to IPGA officials, this increase is mainly because yellow peas are a cheaper yet equally nutritious substitute for more expensive varieties. “If this trend continues, seasonal dal crisis may be a thing of the past as people seamlessly move to other dal options when one is in short supply,” an official said.
 
 Wholesale traders said they don’t foresee any demand-supply gaps this year.
 
 Kavish Dugad, a wholesaler operating in Market Yard, said, “Not only are imports sizeable but the domestic crop too has almost doubled. We are also expecting more and a better crop of chana dal to hit the market soon.”
 
 Retailers estimate that the prices would fall further. P L Ojha of Shivaji Provision Store on Sus Road, said, “Supply is more than sufficient in Market Yard, from where we buy our stock. Of course, as per the rule, we are buying at a little more than the minimum support price (MSP) to benefit farmers. Customers are happy and back to buying pulses in bulk. Prices of other commodities like poha and soyabean have also dropped significantly.”
 
 Customers like Aditi Mishra are elated. Mishra said, “Monthly grocery expenses have now dropped significantly. While we did not really change our eating habits too much when the prices were sky-high, this respite in prices is welcome and gives us a margin to reorganize our expenditure.” 
 
