KENDRAPADA: The crocodile hatchery and rearing complex at   within   in the district reopened for tourists on Monday. 

 The complex had been shut for renovation since 2013. Redesigned by the forest department, the crocodile complex now provides a conducive environment to baby crocodiles. 
 
 "The 43-year-old complex was renovated as part of the integrated coastal zone management (ICZM) programme at the cost of Rs 57.83 lakh," the divisional forest officer ( ) of the   National Park, said on Friday. 
 
 The forest department had stopped the crocodile breeding and rearing programme five years ago as their population had increased to more than 1600 from from 96 in 1974. But the department renovated the centre to enable the tourists to have a glimpse of baby crocodiles. "We have collected a few eggs to breed them at the centre for tourists, researchers and herpetologists . The centre is now the home to 74 crocodile hatchlings," the forest officer said. 
 
 He added that the ministry of forest and environment in collaboration with the UNDP had started a crocodile hatchery and rearing project at Dangmal in 1974. The project was a huge success as the crocodile population had increased from 96 in 1974 to 1671 this year. In 2006, the Guinness Book had recorded a 23-foot long salt-water crocodile in Bhitarkanika as the largest crocodile in the world. he said. 
 
 Three years ago, a construction company had made several blunders while renovating the crocodile hatchery. This had rendered it useless for the crocodile hatchlings. Baby crocodiles need sunlight and the hatchlings need rain water in monsoon to survive. But the construction company had prevented the entry of sunlight and rain into the rearing complex by covering the roof of the complex with green plastic asbestos. This led to increasing number of forest officials not using the breeding centre. 
 
 In 2014, noted herpetologist Dr   during his visit to Bhitarkanika, had expressed his displeasure at the newly built crocodile breeding center. He had also written to the chief wildlife warden and other forest officials saying that the crocodile rearing centre was not built for the purpose of rearing baby crocodiles. 
 
 
