NEW DELHI: The   has maintained that the decision of   has strengthened the honest middle class, taxpayers, small traders, professionals and other such people, who were bearing the brunt of corruption and black money in day-to-day life.

 It also termed the aftermath of demonetisation a “sacred movement” during which the masses accepted the temporary suffering with enthusiasm and asserted that black money has now been deposited in banks that will lead to higher revenues and bigger and cleaner GDP.
 
 “In this sacred movement across the country, the common people were taking upon themselves the temporary suffering of standing in queues with full enthusiasm and positive energy but the opposition had become negative with destructive energy to defame the central government and trying to destroy the positive environment of the country,” it said.
 
 Union minister   shared the details of the resolution, which was presented by finance minister  , keeping the entire focus on benefits of demonetisation, paying no heed to the oppositions’ strident protests over the move. “On 8th November, Prime Minister   ensured honor to the honest people of the country and on December 31 he provided a new energy and faith to the youth, women, small businessmen, senior citizens and farmers of the country,” the party has stated in its economic resolution passed on the final day of its two-day national executive at the   here on Saturday.
 
 “Party believes that this fight is important step in the re-making of an equitable and strong India. The step of the central government has reaffirmed the belief that patriotism isn’t just a political talk but it is a political will to take strong and decisive steps to favor the last man,” the BJP observed making it clear that demonetisation will be a key agenda in the forthcoming assembly polls in five states showcasing how the last man in the queue will be benefited by the government move, living up to the spirit of the party philosophy of “antyodaya”.
 
 The resolution has termed demonetisation as an important step towards the establishment of economic inclusion, transparent governance and equitable society. “Black money has been deposited in the banks. It has lost its anonymity.
 
 The informal economy will now increasingly integrate with the formal economy. This will lead to higher revenues with the States and the Centre. It will lead to the bigger and the Cleaner GDP,” the resolution said.
 
 “It is the transfer of black money from the tax non-compliant to the poor and the weak,” the party stated emphasising that the welfare of the poor was central to the demonetisation move.
 
 Terming “BHIM”as an important tool in the movement towards social, economic and political justice, party observed that the country’s 35 crore smart phones, 107 crore mobile connections, 117 crore saving accounts and 25 crore Jan Dhan accounts, more than 40 crore aadhar-linked accounts, more than 75 crore debit cards will make it an enabled society for digital transactions.
 
