PUNE: The Maharashtra government plans to form a panel of women legislators and police officers that will suggest how to make the state safer for women. 

  MLC Neelam Gorhe recently raised the issue in the state legislative council. She stated that several women work in IT companies that require them to work at odd hours. Gorhe also highlighted the recent crimes reported in Pune.
 
 Gorhe told TOI that the panel, which will comprise two leaders from the lower and upper house as well as police officials, will make recommendations to the state. 
 
 "The panel will have to incorporate suggestions for the IT sector, particularly on issues related to the mode of travel, women security guards, and so on. With increasing cases of attacks on women in the IT sector, special care needs to be taken," said Gorhe. The MLC has also suggested that agencies be appointed to counsel companies. According to Gorhe, in all likelihood, the panel will be able to give its recommendations in a month.
 
 Senior government officials said the panel will constitute a committee of women representatives two legislators each from the upper and lower House of the state legislature, along with three women police officers. "The committee will be given a month to submit a report and its suggestions will be implemented," said the official. 
 
 Last month, 25-year-old Infosys systems engineer Rasila Raju was murdered at her workplace in Pune. Over the past fortnight, six women politicians, including Gorhe, said they had received threats and lewd text messages.
 
 The home department is serious about implementing the recommendations made by the panel.
 
 According to the   data, the state tops the list of sexual offences registered against women in India. As per statistics, over 16,000 cases were reported in the state under crimes such as rape, attempt to commit rape, assault on women with intent to outrage her modesty and insult to modesty of women. Madhya Pradesh stood second with over 12,000 cases followed by Uttar Pradesh, Odisha and Delhi.
 
 Gorhe said the panel recommendations will not only benefit the IT hub in Pune but all cities in the state.
 
