ALLAHABAD: "The hostel doesn't provide bed, desert cooler or study table and there is no lending   so I have had to buy most of the books. Can AU provide any space for our belongings as we vacate our room and leave for hometown?" said  , a hosteller who was leaving on Thursday. 

 It was a mad rush as scores of residents moved out of their rooms on the last day of vacating   and trust hostels as per the   directive.
 
 They could be seen carrying their belongings from their allocated rooms on e-rickshaws and cycle trolleys. This particular student, who refused to identify himself, carried his entire world on a cycle trolley. It had a small cooler, a one-lit pressure cooker, handful of masalas, plastic containers with rice, flour and dal, a small packet of ghee, around 500 gms of potato, a study table and chair, a lamp, dozens of utensils, two cardboard boxes of books, a few stationary items, a bed, a bamboo bookshelf...he had collected these for his home away from home. 
 
 "We have left our rooms and will be going back to our respective villages but no one can say for sure when we will be able to come back, who to contact for reclaiming our rooms. Will the marks of second year exam decide our merit?" said Rahul, a student setting out of the hostel. 
 
 However, a large number of residents, mostly boys, have not handed over their room keys to the superintendents even after shifting their belongings. "May be they are hopeful that the court would provide them some relief on the next hearing (May 23) and that's why they are still occupying their rooms," said dean student welfare (DSW), Prof RKP Singh. 
 
 Till Thursday evening, 1,150 residents had vacated their rooms and around 160 of them had been accommodated in the three summer hostels. Now the superintendents will be preparing the list of students who have vacated their rooms and also of those who are still in the rooms allocated by the varsity authorities. AU will start searching each hostel from May 22 for which they have chalked out a detailed schedule. 
 
 PRO Harsh Kumar said that the legal residents should not worry because the university would be providing accommodation to each student who had been allocated room in any of the hostel, provided he was entitled for the same. "We may be able to accommodate them in some other hostel," he added.
 
 
