NAGPUR: Bhaiyyalal Bhotmange (61), the lone survivor of the Khairlanji massacre in Bhandara district, passed away on Friday. Around 2pm, he complained of chest pain and discomfort at the government women’s hostel in Bhandara where he worked as a peon.

 His colleagues and sympathizers rushed him to Nagpur for medical treatment. But he breathed his last after reaching a private hospital here.
 
 “He was brought to the hospital around 3.45pm, but his heart stopped within five minutes and all efforts to revive him failed,” said Dr  , director of   in Congress Nagar.
 
 Bhotmange’s close associates said his only wish of getting justice remained unfulfilled as his appeal in the Supreme Court was pending. He had challenged the high court verdict, which while rejecting ‘rarest of rare’ tag to the case, had commuted death sentence of the six accused to extended life-term of 25 years.
 
 Bhotmange’s last rites will be performed on Saturday at the same spot in Deulgaon village, 5km from Khairlanji, where his wife and three children were buried.
 
 His post mortem was conducted at the   later in the evening. His body will be taken to Deulgaon on Saturday around 8.30am, Dalit activists said.
 
 On September 29 in a mob attack by the villagers in Khairlanji in Mohadi taluka of Bhandara district, 100 km from here, Bhaiyyalal's wife Surekha, teen-aged daughter Priyanka and two grown-up sons Sudhir and Rohan were lynched. Bhaiyalal survived as he hid himself at a nearby place. While eight persons were awarded life imprisonment in the case by the high court, an appeal against it is pending in Supreme Court.
 
 The lynching of Bhotmange’s family members had stirred the nation’s conscience and even led to Dalit upsurge. But the trial court that first awarded death sentence to five of the accused and life imprisonment to seven others had held that it was not a caste crime but a village-level rivalry and revenge.
 
 Ravi Shende, a Dalit Panther worker who had been assisting Bhotmane, said the Khairlanji victim had suffered paralytic attack three months ago and was keeping well ever since. He also suffered a mild heart attack recently. Dr Fulwani said one small medical note which was brought by those with the patient mentioned about heart ailment in brief. 
 
 Bhotmange was given a house in MHADA colony in Bhandara and a government job in the social justice department-run hostel. He had officially retired on attaining 60 years of age last year. But responding to appeals by social activists that he was alone and his case was pending in the Supreme Court, the state government granted him a year’s extension in service which was to expire in March.
 
