CHANDIGARH: Taking a serious note of the death of eight people in two   in less than 24 hours, Punjab chief minister Capt   has directed the state’s   to crack down on over-speeding and traffic rules violation, especially by bus drivers, and asked the   to examine the feasibility of installing speed governors in public transport. 

 The chief minister has ordered the transport department and the traffic police to launch a state-wide drive to prevent such mishaps. Traffic police has been asked to check over-speeding and overcrowding, as well as plying of vehicles converted into public transport through unauthorized modification, across the state. He has also asked the department concerned to check out the possibility of installation of speed governors in public transport, especially buses and trucks, which are found to be involved in majority of the road accidents in Punjab.
 
 Instructions have also been issued to the PWD to ensure that precisely engineered and properly marked speed breakers are in place on all state highways and roads, including link roads, along with other necessary measures to minimize accidents. Amarinder has asked the officials concerned to expedite the process of reviewing bus permits and take all illegally plying buses off the road at the earliest. The review process, which covers former deputy chief minister  , has already commenced, according to an official spokesperson.
 
 Saturday’s accident in Barnala, in which four people were killed, involved a speeding Orbit bus, said the spokesperson. Four more people were killed on Sunday in another accident near Maur Mandi when a milk container collided with a modified Force Trax Cruiser, in which 18 people were travelling. Amarinder has condoled the deaths and expressed his heartfelt sympathies to the grief-stricken families of the deceased.
 
 The chief minister also gave an assurance that work on setting up a road safety authority to study the causes of frequent accidents on state roads, as decided by his cabinet at its maiden meeting, had already been initiated. The recommendations of the authority, which would be the first-of-its-kind in region, would be taken up on priority to make the state’s roads accident-free and safe.
 
