

 When I came to Bengaluru 17 years a go, it was the glamorous world of TV production that called to me! How I came to write about food most of the time these days is a story for another time.But what I realized when I started to write this piece is that the foundations of becoming a food writer were laid down all those years ago.
 
 Everyday lunches were about discovering those hidden places in the Gandhinagar area close to my then office. I was a lone lady with a bunch of guys with ravenous appetites and a sense of adventure. And so I discovered the joys of a Jolada Rotti meal one day at a restaurant hidden deep inside a residential area. I've stood in line in front of a tiny place in   for mutton pulav that would be unceremoniously slapped onto a plate and handed to you. You jostled with people crowding the pavement to eat since there was no real place to stand or sit. I also did the rounds of most military hotels in the Majestic region, much before they came into their own today among food enthusiasts. I remember sitting in the midst of all my protective colleagues who wanted me to eat my donne biryani and mutton fry unmindful of all those eyes ogling at a denim clad lady in their midst. I discovered the joys of those Andhra meals and spicy biryanis with these guys too. And during those early morning shoot shifts, breakfasts made of crispy vadas, buttery dosas and sinful idli sambars, complete with a dollop of ghee were mine! These were at places well-known and some so hole-in-the-wall, that you would think people in the know joked of their existence. It was such a way of life that almost every conversation at the end of morning tea at office would center round where we would go for lunch! Discovering the joys of Bengaluru's food scene continued well into my next job ­ which was as a features journalist. This time, office was close to VV Puram Food Street which made the team actually look forward to those late production nights ­ steaming masala paddus, gobi manchurian rolls, MLA pesarattu, floating pani poori, gulkhand with fruits, those sinful aloo bajjis and endless cups of chai. Our office boy should have been awarded an honorary degree in journalism for his ability to take orders from everyone and bring them in flawlessly each time. Having a child led me down the freelance path of work and this was a time when I got fed up of doing work based on briefs from other people. I wanted to do something for myself and blogging had just started to be on people's radar. Realizing that I loved to discover new eating places, I started writing about restaurants and eateries.
 
 Bengaluru just began moving away from multi cuisine restaurants and began opening up to single cuisine formats. I still remember a lovely place in   that served only dimsums, much before the current trend of single-dish restaurants came up. Another happy memory is of making my own bruschetta with fresh basil,   tomatoes and olive oil served on a platter at an Italian restaurant. Or that time when a friend introduced us to the Laham Mandi, an Arabic version of the biryani served in a basement restaurant in a nondescript corner of Queens Road.
 
 With my blog gaining momentum, so did interesting food experiences that came my way ­ from a meal made entirely from edible flowers, to an Izakaya styled Japanese meal with a live sushi counter, robatayaki and for those on the run ­ the Bento Box.Gastropubs gave us the first taste of souped-up pub grub ­ from dirty fries to pierogies to biryani burritos to loaded jacket potatoes and more. Brewpubs had everyone waiting for those seasonal brews to make an appearance, besides the regular favourites. Gourmet coffee cafés are now sprouting, where you can decide on the roast level of your coffee... the scene has never been so vibrant and this is just the tip of the iceberg.
 
 Today, I can get myself a nice wine paired (Indian and   mind you) meal, just as easily as I can get sushi, beef carpaccio, ceviche, sour beef and truffle infused just-about-anything.Bengaluru, like the rest of the country is bringing the best of regional Indian cuisine to the fore as well ­ and so Chettinad, Malabari, Bohri, Punjabi, Rajasthani and more are ours for the grabbing.
 
 Indian food, with and without a twist; food served in rickshaws, swings, pressure cookers and ferris wheels . Drinks served in everything found in a science lab Bengaluru has been there, done that and is now coming full circle! Millets are gaining momentum, farm to fork is on the rise, home cooks are setting up pop-ups of regional cuisines that may be lost to posterity , and food is going back to being all about just that good wholesome food.
 
 And the best part ­ I am still eating my way through it all! 
 
 
 
