NEW DELHI: A Delhi court on Tuesday awarded life imprisonment till the remaining period of his life to a 22-year-old   help for raping and murdering his 81-year-old employer at her south Delhi residence two years ago.

 The court of additional sessions judge   noted betrayal of trust and the “brutal and diabolic” nature of crime before handing over the punishment. As the judge pronounced the order, convict   looked with disbelief and muttered that he did not remember anything.
 
 The court, however, noted that Saifi had betrayed the trust of his vulnerable octogenarian employer. “The convict has not only committed the vile act of rape upon the deceased who was an old lady aged 81 years but also strangulated her to death. He was the full-time help of the deceased. He was engaged to take care of the deceased... The act of the convict was brutal and diabolic,” said the judge.
 
 Special public prosecutor A T Ansari had earlier sought death penalty for the accused, asserting the nature of crime. Negating its possibility, the judge noted Saifi’s young age, clean past record and his old parents for deciding against putting the case under “rarest of rare category”.
 
 The woman used to live alone after the death of her husband, who was a journalist, in 2005. She lived on the ground floor of the house and her body was found in a semi-burnt condition on the first floor of the four-storey building in Greater Kailash II, on July 7, 2014.
 
 A security guard, who was on duty on the night of the  , turned out to be a key witness in the case. He was traced to a south Delhi village on the request of the victim’s family. He gave vital evidence which revealed that Saifi had been misleading the police. The security guard told the court that the accused was present in the building at the time of the crime.
 
 While handing over the punishment, the judge said that Saifi alone had raped the victim, strangulated her and then set her body ablaze to destroy evidence.
 
 Ansari told TOI, “I am satisfied that accused has been held guilty on all counts of charge. Though I had sought capital punishment for the convict, he has been awarded life imprisonment till the remaining period of his natural life. This is one of the few cases I have dealt with in recent past including   case wherein accused demonstrated exceptional depravity and extreme brutality.”
 
 The victim’s younger daughter said, “We were expecting a harsher punishment. We have not gone through the verdict... Once we do we will take a call accordingly,” she said.
 
 The court has awarded Saifi life term under Section 302 (murder), 10 years under Section 376 (rape) and three years jail under Section 201 (destruction of evidence). All sentences will run concurrently.
 
