
 
  Actor   said: “We cannot let it go. Just like Jallikattu is to Tamil Nadu, Kambala is to Karnataka. It is our ancient sport. Like the Tamilians, we have to show our unity and protect it. There is a lack of unity among Kannadigas. We have to fight for our rights and protect our culture and traditions. I don’t care if anyone disagrees, I support Kambala. It is our tradition and no one has the right to stop it.”
  
  Actor   said his support is for nativity. “Farmers take care of their cows and buffalos like they take care of their children. The care for buffaloes is not just during the Kambala races but throughout the year. There is a special relationship and attachment between the   and their animals. It is our identity we will lose if Kambala is banned. I am in favour of Kambala. It is not only about Kambala, and not just about one sport in Karnataka or Tamil Nadu. We cannot allow our nativity to be stamped out,” he said.
  
  Even as the issue of animal rights has been put forward before the   by Peta, those in favour of the sport claimed buffaloes are treated well and there is no cruelty involved. The issue has now become an animal rights versus that of culture and tradition. The   and  , which has approached the HC, has submitted that the state government has established an expert committee to check if there is animal abuse in the sport. But since there is a stay on the sport, the committee has not been able to study it.
  
  BAN   AND HOLI
  
  Meanwhile, the general mood is in favour of Kambala. Notwithstanding what the judgement of the court will be, there seems to be near unanimity among Sandalwood stars who do not want it to be banned.
  
    blamed the lack of unity for Karnataka’s problems in such issues. “The Karnataka Chief Minister had to wait for one month just to get an appointment with the Prime Minister. Our political parties do not come together even for the cause of drinking water. It is silly to expect them to unite for Kambala or any of our traditions and culture. If Kambala is banned, Deepavali and Holi too should be banned. Deepavali pollutes and many people lose their eye sight every year. Not only Kambala, but there are several sports involving animals in north Karnataka. If we don’t stand for our traditions, everything will be erased. Banning Kambala is not the answer. Let them suggest and give their ideas on how to take care of the buffaloes better. You cannot ask someone to stop something that has endured for a thousand years. Unless Kannadigas stand up united, we will lose what is ours one by one. I do not expect politicians to unite. It is left to the common people. But we did not unite for our water. Will we unite for traditions?”
  
  Actress   said that as long as buffalos are treated well, there should be no problem. “As long as the buffaloes are not harmed, there should be no problem with Kambala. Traditions cannot be banned. But they can always be moulded to modern sensibilities,” she said.
  
  Actor-director  , who has first-hand knowledge of how the buffaloes of Kambala are looked after, said: “These male buffaloes are looked after like children. The people who breed and rear them have so much pride about them that they cannot think of causing any harm to them. They are treated like gods. A guest first visits and sees the buffaloes before entering the house. Kambala is just a celebration of the end of the paddy season. It has been around for thousands of years. At least in Jallikattu you can say the bulls suffer a bit. You can say whipping in the horse racing causes harm to horses. But it is only instigation in Kambala races. There is no harm to the buffaloes.”
  
  No Kambala races have been held this season that started in December, with the HC stay coming only days before. Around 40 Kambala races are organised in Dakshina Kannada and   districts. Apart from the races, the Kambala also involves several rituals related to agricultural activities. With the stay on the races, there is confusion over whether these traditions can be followed. Peta had approached the HC last year and claimed that an experts committee headed by the dean of the   had been formed to check on animal abuse during Kambala.
  
  The team found that 5 per cent of the animals were injured during the races. And since the Jallikattu races were banned in Tamil Nadu by the Supreme Court, the same logic should be applied to Kambala. But with the Union Government circumventing the   judgement by tactically supporting TN to allow Jallikattu by the way of an ordinance, the fate of Kambala swings like a pendulum.
  
  Just weeks before the stay on the races on November 22 by the division bench of the HC, another bench of the HC had given the go-ahead for “sampradayabadda Kambala” rituals sans the race. Another single judge bench had allowed the races on certain conditions. But the division bench stayed all races till the PIL filed by Peta was concluded.
