PUNE: More than 100 passengers were left stranded at the   here after the Bengaluru-bound IndiGo flight, which earlier failed to arrive from Bengaluru due to   there, was cancelled at the last moment on Monday morning. 

 The incoming flight was scheduled to reach Pune from Bengaluru at 6.50am and later leave for Bengaluru at 7.30am.
 
 Amit Pathak, who was waiting at the   for the flight, tweeted to IndiGo’s twitter handle (@IndiGo6E), “Stranded. 6e391 cancelled.”
 
 Another flier who was coming to Pune from Bengaluru, tweeted “IndiGo6E flight delayed due to bad weather and cancelled as Pune airport won’t give permission to land in Pune as it’s a defence base.”
 
  IndiGo airlines claimed that prompt steps were taken to assist passengers both in Pune and Bengaluru, but sources said several passengers were inconvenienced due to the cancellation of the flights. 
 
  In Pune, passengers were told about the cancellation of the flight after the check-in process was completed and boarding passes were handed over. 
 
 With the airlines refusing to comment on the number of people stranded, sources said, more than 100 passengers were affected due to the cancellation. Airport sources said passengers had apparently been not informed about the flight’s cancellation as many of them had landed at the airport in the morning hours.
 
 “Quite a few passengers were left stranded but the airline staff assisted them. While some passengers opted for a full refund, others were accommodated on other flights of IndiGo. However, the fact that they reached the airport shows that they had no idea about the flight getting cancelled,” sources said.
 
 An official statement by the airline said, “IndiGo flight 6E-408 scheduled from Bengaluru to Pune and further operating as 6E-391 from Pune to Bengaluru was unable to take off due to low visibility in Bengaluru. As a NOTAM was issued at the Pune and Bengaluru airports from 8am to 10.30 am and 10.30am to 05.30pm, respectively, none of the flights were operating during this period. Consequently, the IndiGo flight had to be cancelled as the delay would have further affected the flight schedule at either of the two airports. Passengers were promptly notified and provisions were made to accommodate them on other flights. IndiGo also fully refunded passengers keeping in mind their convenience.”
 
