NEW DELHI: The Centre is set to clear an estimated Rs 10,000 crore relief package for banks, which are facing the prospect of loans to 25 mega   turning sour, because promoters are unable to find buyers for their capacity in the current surplus market condition.

 Sources said the package, expected to be taken up by the Cabinet on Wednesday, proposes extending the time limit by another 60 months for sealing PP As ( ) for the entire capacity of a project.
 
 Simultaneously, it is being proposed that lenders will release bank guarantees furnished by the promoters in proportion to the capacity for which PPA is signed. But to safeguard the interest of banks, the released funds will go to the lenders towards servicing of debt.
 
 The sources said the proposals could well be worth Rs 10,000 crore in relief, going by the current outstanding loans and their repayment status. The proportionate unlocking of bank guarantee will distress projects as the released money will go towards servicing debt. This, in turn, will also help loans from not being categorised as  .
 
 Power plants of 1,000 MW and above are categorised as 'Mega' projects, which get customs duty benefit on equipment and other benefits. The customs duty benefit, however, entails furnishing of bank guarantee which is released after PPAs for the entire capacity of a project are signed. These 25 mega projects were approved in 2012 with the aim of fast ramping up of generation capacity since the country was facing acute shortage of power. The projects were given 60 months to tie up PPAs, which did not appear too difficult in a sellers' market as long-term contracts offered cheaper rates.
 
 The   government's initiative in the last three years have changed the narrative from 'shortage' to 'surplus'. As a result, the promoters are struggling for PPAs in buyers market as even utilities with old PPAs prefer to buy cheaper power from electricity exchanges than to getting tied down with new agreements. So, a majority of the promoters have found their bank guarantees locked up, even in cases where the projects are complete or PPAs have been inked for part of the capacity.
 
