WASHINGTON: Only in America can a first-generation Indian-American Muslim kid get on this stage and make fun of the US President. 

 It was a line delivered more in wonderment and admiration for America and its First Amendment than as a joke by  , son of Indian immigrants from Aligarh, Uttar Pradesh, as he roasted Donald   at the   dinner, a Washington tradition where the President takes it on the chin and gets to land a few on his critic.
 
 Trump was not present, because, as Minhaj said only half-in-jest, "he can't take a joke." Minhaj's own joke, involving Putin, went: "The leader of our country is not here. And that's because he's in Moscow. As for the other guy, I think he's in Pennsylvania because he can't take a joke."
 
 Speaking for himself, Minhaj said he was chosen to deliver the year's WHCA dinner address because "No one wanted to do this, so of course it lands in the hands of an immigrant."
 
 Assigning a significant section of his 25-minute act to skewering the Trump administration and the President's aides, Minhaj termed the present moment the "Golden Age of Lying" and called President Trump the "Liar-in-chief." He mocked Trump's purported war-mongering, his apparent penchant for golf and lack of attention to serious issues, and his odd media habits.
 
 "He tweets at 3am... sober. Who is tweeting at 3am sober? Donald Trump, because it's 10am in Russia. Those are business hours!" went one of the more sulphurous jibes.
 
 The media wasn't spared either.
 
 On MSNBC's breathless promotion of its Trump tax scoop: "I have one quick request. MSNBC, please tell Rachel Maddow to chill about Trump's tax returns. There's not going to be a line item in there saying 'bribes from Russia'."
 
 And on CNN's hyping of trivial events to "breaking news": "I'm not going to call you fake news, but everything isn't breaking news. You can't go to DEFCON One just because Sanjay Gupta found a new moisturiser."
 
 Reflecting only half-in-jest about the credibility crisis afflicting the media, Minhaj observed: "I don't have a solution on how to win back trust. But in the age of Trump, I know that you have to be more perfect now than ever. Because you are how the president gets his news. Not from advisers. Not from intelligence agencies. You guys."
 
 The San Francisco-born Minhaj rounded off his shtick by predicting that "It's 11pm, so in three hours the President will be tweeting about how bad   bombed at this dinner."
 
 Wrong. Trump lit into the WHCA dinner even before Minhaj's jokes. In remarks to his adoring fan base in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, the US President spent ridiculed the event and the media, saying he could not possibly be more thrilled to be more than 100 miles away from "Washington's swamp."
 
 Elite reporters, he claimed, would "love to be with us" but were trapped at the dinner, which will be "very, very boring," adding that the political media "deserves a very, very big, fat failing grade" for its coverage of his first 100 days.
 
 In Washington about a 100 miles away, Minhaj counted days left of the current Trump administration, saying, "We're 100 days in, 1,360 days to go."
 
 
 
 
 "Who would have thought that with everything going on in the country now, that a Muslim would be standing on this stage, for the 9th year in a row." -- a reference to President Obama attending the event for eight years amid right-wing rumors that he is a Muslim
 
 "Let the man putt putt! It keeps him distracted. Tell him he has a great body for bobsledding. The longer you keep him distracted, the longer we're not at war with North Korea!" -- On Trump's purported war-mongering.
 
 "I've been watching House of Cards just to relax. Oh, a vice president pushes a journalist in front of a train? How quaint."
 
 "Mike Pence isn't here. Apparently one of you ladies is ovulating. Good job, ladies. Because of you we couldn't hang out with  ." -- on Pence's comment that he would not eat a meal with any woman who is not his wife. 
 
 On Ivanka Trump: "If she was here, I would ask the question we're all thinking. Why? Why do you support this man? We all love our parents, but we wouldn't endorse them for president. My dad? The guy who tries to return underwear to Costco? No!"
 
 "This has been one of the strangest events of my life. If this goes poorly, Steve Bannon gets to eat me."
 
 "It's 11pm, so in three hours he will be tweeting about how bad Nicki Minaj bombed at this dinner. He'll be doing it completely sober."
 
