TRICHY: These farmers have done it all as a mark of protest and basked in enough limelight as well.Eating rats, tying noose around their necks, getting clothed in plants around their waist, lying on the road half-naked, blowing conch, lying on the ground like dead body are just some of them. Though it is disputable as to how many of these events have earned results, the bizarre modes of protests were spearheaded by a relentless crusader called P Ayyakkannu.

 The 68-year-old state president of Desiya Thenninthiya Nathigal Inaippu Vivasayigal Sangam is an advocate by profession and known to be an aggressive leader devoted to the cause of small and marginal farmers. He has been utilising his professional skills for the `oppressed' farming community in the district.
 
 Born in a family of farmers in Musiri in the district, Ayyakannu joined   after completing his bachelor's degree. Till the age of 50, he was practising in the Trichy district court as an advocate and had to encounter a number of cases linked to farmers and the revenue department.
 
 “Since Musiri and surrounding areas are full of farm lands, a large number of farmers approached my father seeking help as they were being exploited by government officials from various departments because of their ignorance. Unable to bear the arrogance and lethargic approach of officials towards the farming community , he decided to take up their cause“, said AK Gopikannu, son of Ayyakannu who is also an advocate.
 
 Later, he joined Bharathiya Kisan Sangam as state general secretary .However, Ayyakannu found that he was not allowed to act according to his will and interest of farmers. So he quit and formed a new association called Desiya Thenninthiya Nathigal Inaippu Vivasayigal Sangam. His novel ideas of protesting against erring officials started to attract many farmers who were subsequently made members of the sangam.
 
 “All the members who joined the association have benefited from my father. To show their gratitude and also for the cause of other farmers who are facing the ordeal, they have rallied behind my father. However, he doesn't have to spend a penny for them. Instead, he puts his best efforts for their genuine cause,“ Gopikannu said.
 
