BHUBANESWAR: With just a week left for the three-tier   to begin, the   has countermanded elections for eight seats of different posts. 

 According to an official statement, the poll panel has cancelled elections for the positions of four ward members, two sarpanchs, one panchayat samiti membership and zilla parishad zone membership.
 
 A provision of the Odisha Gram Panchayat Act says that if a candidate dies after announcement of the final list of candidates and before the day of polling, election for the position is to be countermanded.
 
 "After the withdrawal of nomination papers was completed on January 21, elections for eight seats have been countermanded so far. The poll commission will announce fresh dates of elections for these eight places," said State Election Commission secretary R N Sahu.
 
 A statement issued by the poll panel said elections to two sarpanch seats - the Badbambua gram panchayat in the Bisra block in Sundargarh district and the Tukudiha gram panchayat in the Jhumupura block of Keonjhar district - have been suspended. There will similarly be no election in zilla parishad zone 8 in Gania block of the Nayagarh district.
 
 Election has also been cancelled in   ward in the Simulia block of Balasore, Dhusuri ward in Dhamnagar block of Bhadrak, Bamuni ward in Kosagumuda block of Nabarangapur, Bagalgarh ward in Niali block of Cuttack district and for samiti membership at Badagoan in the Balikuda block of the   district.
 
 Meanwhile, all 26 candidates who had filed nominations to be elected to different positions in the Kantia gram panchayat in the Khurda district, withdrew their papers in the second phase of the nomination process, protesting the issue of transfer of ancestral property in the name of Lord Jagannath.
 
 In addition, a number of other gram panchayats have decided to boycott the panchayat polls owing to different issues.
 
 The sub-collector will nominate the sarpanch and ward members in places where no nomination papers were filed even after two phases. "The state panchayati raj department will select the samiti members for these panchayats," the SEC secretary said.
 
 
