MUMBAI: In an alarming situation that has made Mumbaikars call for prompt government intervention, the price of   has spiralled to Rs 100-110 per kg in localities such as  ,   and  . This staple item is selling for Rs 70-80 in most parts of the city as well as Thane and Navi Mumbai.

 Citizens have been tweeting to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Devendra Fadnavis to take action. The holy month of Shravan began in north India on Monday. The fasting season according to the Maharashtrian and Gujarati calendar starts July 24. As families abstain from non-vegetarian food during this time, consumption of tomato rises. 
 
 Traders have no explanation for the increase other than “unseasonal rain”. They say the situation will continue through August. This is bewildering given that farmers were dumping produce in the streets as tomato rates crashed to Re 1 per kg a few weeks ago.
 
 In Andheri market, vendor Umar said, “We are selling good quality fruit for Rs 100 because we are purchasing for Rs 75 in the wholesale market. This stock comes from Bangalore. The crop in Maharashtra has failed due to excessive rain.” Last week, the largest trader in APMC had cited a slew of reasons including “demonetisation, farmers’ strike and bad weather”.
 
 On Monday, buyers in Thane market, Bandra and Andheri restricted themselves to purchasing half a kg. Others chose to avoid tomato. “The greengrocer cheekily asked me why I did not want to buy tomato since I had bought other vegetables. I retorted that at Rs 80 per kg, he was welcome to keep his produce,” said Shiuli Banerjee of Malad.
 
 Kitchens are forced to explore alternatives. Borivli housewife   recommended that households try vinegar while Maya Mirchandani of Andheri recommended thickening the gravy with sour curd or tamarind pulp. Banerjee suggested lime juice and kokum to add sourness, and gravies thickened with potato and cornflour to tide over the crisis.
 
 Prices of onion-tomato have maintained a steady average of Rs 15-20 per kg since 2014. In previous years, the country had seen a biannual spike in rates from March-May and October-December as traders cited “seasonal shortages” owing to the vagaries of monsoon. This inexplicable spike has brought consumers’ worst fears back to haunt them.
 
