KOLKATA: Here’s a piece of good news that might play a small but significant role in strengthening the Indo-Pak cultural relationship. A short documentary film directed by a student of the   ( ) has been invited to compete at a film festival in Lahore. 

 Sreecheta Das’ ‘Sankrail Superstars’ will compete at the 10th Vasakh International Documentary Film Festival to be held next month. The only worry is: Will she get a visa to visit the country?
 
 The documentary is about a girls’ football team from West Midnapore’s Sankrail. “Till a few years back, this place was one of the epicentres of Maoist activities. Thanks to the efforts of the state government, projects were initiated to restore normalcy. This team was one of the many projects initiated to bring prosperity to Jangalmahal. Despite their limitations, this team represented Bengal in the Subroto Cup International Football Tournament in 2014,” Das said.
 
 It was during February last year that Das, along her batchmates Naomi Alam, Prabhdeep Singh Saini, Vibhav Nigam and   decided to start work on this documentary, which is based on the lives of two sisters — Mukta and Mamata Hansda. 
 
 Eighteen-year-old Mukta has just finished taking her Madhyamik exams. “I got to know that the film is travelling to Pakistan. I haven’t watched the documentary yet but I am pinching myself to believe that the film has travelled so far,” she said. Her sister, Mamata will be writing her Class XI exams. Once that gets over, the team will be coming to the city. “We will play in the women’s Kolkata league matches,” Mukta said.
 
 It’s not easy for a tribal girl to football, she said. “Boys tease our coach. There are many problems. My film is travelling to Pakistan. How I wish one day our football team will also travel there,” Mukta said.
 
 Meanwhile, Das is keen on travelling to Pakistan as well. This Lahore event – to be held on April 27 and 28 — aims at creating a critical mass by sensitising the youth on issues of human rights, equal citizenship, gender equality and religious tolerance through documentary films. 
 
