NEW DELHI: Till May 9, the residents of   in   had not paid much attention to the sound of guitar riffs emanating from a room there. But that day, soon after the university’s Academic Council meeting was adjourned, the music found a rapt audience. For amid the general feeling of dismay about various issues on the campus, the 22-year-old occupant of that room had found a tuneful way to protest: a music video that ‘dissed’ the vice-chancellor for his policies.

 In the 2:55-minute video,  , a second year MA student, poured out his feelings about the issues that have left the campus in ferment in recent times. From the implementation of UGC’s restrictions on MPhil and PhD admissions and the disappearance of student Najeeb Ahmed to the “faulty exam schedule”, Rajkhowa puts them in lyrics that drip with sarcasm and anxiety.
 
 The student of international relations was hopeful of getting an MPhil seat, but said “the VC’s decision (to curtail research seats) has destroyed that dream”. With his baseball cap worn backward in the fashion of   rebels, Rajkhowa added, “I am also concerned about economically backward students who had intended to lead lives in academia, but will now be asked to vacate their rooms.”
 
 In the truest tradition of rap music, the antagonist was told off, and Rajkhowa has no qualms about doing it. “I dissed the VC by saying that his PhD, which he must have written with ease, was a joke,” smiled the rapper.
 
 Quick to assert that he is not affiliated to any political party on a campus where politics has taken on extremely combative tones, the boyish scholar simply believes in the justness of his cause. And cheekily, given the accusations of anti-nationalism thrown at JNU students in recent days, Rajkhowa’s lyrics smugly declare that he cannot be accused of being against the security forces because he comes from an army family.
 
 His video has caught the instant attention of social media. Idris Umarzada, an Afghanistan national and an international relations student, shared Rajkhowa’s protest lines on a number of social media sites. “I could relate to the song,” he explained. “I felt many more should learn about the frustrations of students affected by the VC’s decisions.”
 
 This is not the first time that the youth from Guwahati, Assam, has turned his guitar into a weapon of protest. He composed a similarly stinging denunciation last year of “a dossier in which some JNU teachers accused students from the Northeast of indulging in prostitution on the campus”.
 
 Rajkhowa’s inherited his music genes from a father “who was a band member in his days as a student at FTII, Pune”. He grew up in a household that was mesmerised by the music of blues legends like BB King, Jimi Hendrix and Albert Collins. 
 
 “Their music was about progressiveness and against repression, as is mine,” emphasised the lead guitarist and vocalist of Paperboat, a band he formed with friends while studying in St Stephen’s College on the other side of the city.
 
