PATNA: As temperature soars to 35 degrees Celsius, schools in Patna are gearing up to save students from heatstroke and keep them hydrated during the class hours.

 St Xavier’s High School has taken several measures to beat the heat. Its vice-principal Fr Manish Osta said the school administration is extremely concerned for the well-being of students and staff. “The school has four water coolers, two each for primary and senior sections.   school timing will be 7am to 12 from April 3. The school administration has also decided to give two breaks — 30 minutes and 15 minutes — to students during the classes,” Osta said.
 
  principal Mary Alphonsa said brains work better when the child is hydrated. “Students are allowed to keep their water bottles with themselves as it’s easier for kids to drink the required amount of water when they have a bottle at their desk. Before the new session begins, the school has checked whether all the water taps are functional or not. We have also installed RO machines on each floor of the school building,” she said. The summer timing will be 7am to 12.45pm from April 6.
 
 St Michael’s High School, Loyola High School, Notre Dame Academy, St Dominic Savio’s High School, Krishna Niketan and Mt   will also conduct classes from 7am onwards. They have also taken measures to keep the students cool during classes in summer.
 
 DY   director   said the campus is fully airconditioned. The school will install four new RO water machines of 2,000 litres capacity each. “The school has already five water coolers and half a dozen water filter machines. For the comfort of the students, the school have 41 airconditioned buses,” he said. The school timing will be 7.30am to 1.30pm in the new session.
 
 “Teachers will give tips to the students about healthy food in order to avoid the chances of heatstroke. We have also replaced non-AC buses and vans as per the parents’ demand,” said Aman Kumar, director of Open Minds A Birla School.
 
 Experts also have a few tips to keep kids healthy and hydrated during summer. “Drink plenty of water when participating in sports activities, even if you don’t feel thirsty. By the time you do get thirsty, it might be too late,” said Dr AK Thakur.
 
 He said kids should participate in outdoor activities in the morning or evening, when temperatures are comparatively low. “It’s important to avoid the sun’s most potent heat rays between 10am and 4pm. Kids must eat fruits which are rich in potassium and sodium. Parents should also make sure that kids wear light colour clothes,” he added.
 
 
