PATNA: Bihar chief minister   on Sunday asked the two-member team probing the Saturday boat tragedy to identify the persons responsible for the lapses in micro-level planning before organising such a mega event and how private boats were allowed to ply without licences. He also expressed anguish over why the river police station was not functional in the area as Patna and Saran police indulged in the blame game over the accident.
 
  Chairing a high-level meeting, Nitish was in an unsparing mood and asked principal secretary (disaster management) Pratyaya Amrit and DIG (Patna) Shalin, who are probing the accident in which 24 people lost their lives, to submit their findings at the earliest.
  
  The 24 deceased included seven women. Twelve persons were rescued while several others swam to safety. The disaster management department claimed that only one ship capsized and not two, as was seen in the video that went viral after the tragedy late Saturday evening.
  
  Briefing newsmen after the CM’s meeting, Pratyaya said, “Any event, in which large number of people are likely to participate, needs micro-level planning. We will find out why this planning was not done when thousands of people were to participate in the kite festival and Makar Sankranti festivity in the diara area. CM has asked us to find out at which level the lapses took place when mega events like Prakashotsava and Kalchakra passed off peacefully.”
  
  Pratyaya said the CM pointed out to the existing law which clearly said boats had to be registered before allowed to ply and why the law had been violated.
  
  When TOI asked why the announcement was made in the diara area that no boat would ply after 4pm, leading to panic among the people, Pratyaya replied, “All these issues are part of the inquiry.” To another question as to who instructed the SDRF team to stop patrolling and, instead, ferry people on their boats, Pratyaya said, “Some magistrate on duty”. He further said it was decided in a meeting to deploy one unit of SDRF in Vaishali to avert any major mishap in future.
  
  On the initial findings, Pratyaya said they interacted with principal secretary (tourism department) Harjot Kaur, Bihar State Tourism Development Corporation managing director Uma Shankar Prasad, Saran SP Pankaj Kumar Raj, Saran DM Deepak Anand, Patna DM Sanjay Kumar Agarwal and Patna SSP  . However, he did not disclose what these officials told the probe team.
  
  Meanwhile, Suman Kumar, one of the survivors, said, “There was chaos when the tourism department made public announcement to stop ferry service after 4pm. People got restless when it started getting dark and on spotting any boat, they rushed towards it.”
  
  Another survivor,  , said, “There was no need to offer free service when the government was not capable of making proper arrangements. If they had taken people to the diara, it was their responsibility to bring them back. But there was no arrangement. We paid for the boat service.”
  
  Rajendra Sahni, the fisherman who helped the administration fish out maximum bodies till Sunday, said ,“The boat which capsized was not fit for ferrying people.” He said the administration never keeps a tab on the movement of private boats.
  
  When TOI tried to contact the tourism department officials to know why ferry service was stopped, no one responded. The department’s principal secretary did not respond to any call or message by the TOI. It is to be noted that Harjot was present in the diara on Saturday afternoon and was witness to the huge crowd.
  
  Meanwhile, NDRF commandant Vijay Sinha said they were still continuing with the search operation with eight deep divers.
