BENGALURU: While the city grapples with water crisis and a harsh summer, as many as seven open wells in  , a prime lung space, are set to be revived to recharge groundwater. 

 The wells, about 40 years old and with an average depth of 50ft, have been rendered unusable because of silt. With water experts identifying the potential of these wells, the department of horticulture, custodian of the park, with help from NGOs and private companies, is all set to revive them to reduce dependence on BWSSB for the park’s maintenance.
 
 The plan is to interconnect these wells with piped network so that they are continuously recharged. 
 
 The project is divided into three phases, the first being the revival of wells. About 15 members from the Bovi community, which has traditional knowledge of wells, will be employed to clean the wells. Once the silt is removed, two kinds of mesh will be used to cover the well -- one to prevent leaves and other substances from falling into the well, and the other to prevent humans or animals from falling into it. All these wells will be connected through pipelines and water from each well will be pumped and collected at the central sump opposite State Central Library. From here, the water will be supplied to the rose garden and other areas through sprinklers.
 
 The revamp is expected to reduce the cost of purchasing water for the park’s maintenance. “Now, we purchase treated water from the BWSSB at Rs 20 per kilo litre, which amounts to Rs 75 lakh to Rs 80 lakh a year. Once the wells are revived, expenditure under this head will go down by 30%,” said  , deputy director (Cubbon Park), horticulture department.
 
 “Approximately, 20ft of water will be available; only after the debris is removed, can we estimate the exact amount of water that will be available in each of these wells,” said Meena Dave, CEO, India Cares Foundation. 
 
 The second phase includes using the open wells as recharge wells to collect rainwater and augment groundwater. Rejuvenation of ponds will constitute the third phase. “The project is expected to cost about Rs 60 lakh. We are scouting for donors to fund the initiative. To maintain transparency, no money will be given to the horticulture department; sponsors will directly pump in money for the project,” said Ramprasad from Friends of Lakes (FOL) Foundation.
 
 THE TIMELINE
 
 The revival of wells will take around one-and-a-half months. “One well has been cleaned already. We will obtain a written permission from the commissioner of horticulture within the next two to three days and work on other wells will begin in a week from now,” said Mahantesh.
 
 THE GENESIS
 
 “People have forgotten about shallow aquifers such as open wells; they dig deep borewells to obtain water. When we inspected Cubbon Park we realized that water was available even at 8-10ft depth. Hence, we decided to work on these wells to optimize utilization,” said Ramprasad. 
 
 THE TASKS
 
 India Cares Foundation ( ) under the aegis of TCS 10K run,   and Friends of Lakes (FOL) Foundation have come together to revive these wells. TCS will take care of the finances and the technical aspects will be looked into by Biome Trust, headed by Vishwanath S. Friends of Lakes Foundation will be involved in co-ordination.
 
 By Mayuri V Thota
 
 
