Pune: As many as 37 Indian scientists from nine institutes, including Inter-University Centre for Astronomy and Astrophysics (IUCAA) here, were co-authors of the gravitational waves discovery paper — awarded the Nobel prize in Physics on Tuesday.

 Rainer Weiss, Barry C. Barish and Kip S. Thorne were named for the award for their decisive contributions to the LIGO detector and the observation of gravitational waves. Around 12 scientists from IUCAA were co-authors of the first discovery paper.
 
 Pioneer in gravitational waves astronomy in India, Sanjeev Dhurandhar said Indian contribution played a major role, especially in extracting signal from noise, in detecting the gravitational waves. Scientists stressed the Nobel prize would give impetus to LIGO India project.
 
 The group led by Dhurandhar at IUCAA initiated and carried out the foundation work on developing data analysis techniques to detect the weak gravitational wave signals buried in the detector’s noise by looking for the best match between the calculated waveforms and the detector’s signal.
 
 Dhurandhar told TOI on Tuesday, “I have been working and contributing in this field for the past 30 years. India’s contribution is quite a bit and we have played an important role in the discovery. It was a big challenge. Many thought it was an impossible task 30 years ago, but I took it up and it has received the well-deserved Nobel.”
 
 He said, “With LIGO India coming up, the Nobel prize will add new dimension to the gravitational wave astronomy. It is like the birth of a new baby.”
 
 Dhurandhar has been working on this subject from 1987. “The major component of my work is in data analysis of gravitational wave signals embedded in the noise of the detector,” he said.
 
 The professor emeritus at IUCAA, who loves mathematics and statistics, joined the institute in 1989.
 
 Impetus to LIGO India project
 
 LIGO India spokesperson Tarun Souradeep said the Nobel prize would give impetus to the India project.
 
 He said the prize truly belonged to its leaders but it would also encourage the younger generation to think big. “Quite a few people from IUCAA made it their home for gravitational wave study since 1992. Now, many senior scientists in this field are former students of IUCAA and doing great work across the globe.”
 
 He said this award would definitely inspire the youngsters of the nation to look at enhancing work in this field as it opens up. In the coming years, Souradeep said, LIGO India would be a part of these discoveries.
 
 IUCAA director lauds Dhurandhar
 
 Somak Raychaudhury, the director of IUCAA, said the Nobel prize goes to only three people as a rule but this discovery was a collaboration of over 1,500 people across the globe and several Indians were actively involved too.
 
 “IUCAA played a substantial part in it and Dhurandhar will be proud today. He built this activity in India. Many others, who were a part of the project, were his students. They did their post-doctorate and are currently in Germany and other parts of the world and doing great work in this field. He deserves a lot and if there were 20-25 people to be named for Nobel, he would have been a part of it,” said Raychaudhury.
 
 “There will be more prizes as this subject opens up. At the same time, I am happy that the Indian government has given LIGO India the go ahead, which would be a part of new discoveries in the years to come,” Raychaudhury said.
 
 Graphic:
 
 NOBLE ROLE
 
 As many as 37 Indian scientists from nine institutes were co-authors of the gravitational waves discovery paper
 
 Around 12 scientists from IUCAA were co-authors of the first discovery paper
 
 Key contributions
 
 Indian groups contributed significantly to the historic search for gravitational waves. The key tasks they carried out are:
 
 Understanding the response of the LIGO detector to the signals and terrestrial influences
 
 Bounding the orbital eccentricity and estimating the mass and spin of the final black hole
 
 Estimating energy and power radiated during merger
 
 Confirming that observed signal agrees with Einstein’s Theory of Relativity
 
 Searching for a possible electromagnetic counterpart using optical telescopes
 
 Narlikar happy
 
 Astrophysicist Jayant Narlikar said when the first announcement on the detection of gravitational waves was made last year, it was recognised that Indian contribution was quite good, especially in data analysis.
 
 He said Dhurandhar led India in this entire journey and his techniques were still used. “And now, the Nobel committee has recognised this, which is very good. With this, I hope that the Indian effort, which is LIGO India, will catch on more rigorously with the government approving the project,” Narlikar added.
 
 
