Thiruvananthapuram: The national highway stretch from   to   will witness drastic changes as part of the   project. Major junctions in the stretch will get vehicular   so that the vehicles can reach the other side of the stretch without interrupting the NH traffic.

 The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has recently won an approval for change of scope introduced in the project such as underpass at KIMS Hospital junction-Kochuveli junction and Beemapally-Manacaud road. The Akkulam bridge, the work of which has entered the final phase, will have a vehicular underpass on one side and pedestrian underpass on other side. 
 
 The underpasses are constructed as per rules of Indian Roads Congress which envisages national highways as roads where vehicles could ply in 80-100 kmphr uninterrupted. Service roads are provided on either side of the highway in order to facilitate entry and exit of vehicles without disrupting the traffic. The new underpasses planned under the project will be introduced in junctions and structures (here bridge) where there are no service roads. 
 
 The underpasses are proposed at grade junctions, for instance, the vehicular underpass proposed at the Kovalam side of Akkulam bridge can be used by vehicles coming from the Kazhakkoottam side and planning to move to the other side, say Kulathoor road. In that case, the vehicles can take the underpass to reach the service road on other side. Similarly, vehicles moving in Kovalam to Akkulam, can take the underpass to reach the other side. 
 
 The vehicular underpass at the Kochuveli junction-KIMS Hospital junction and Beemapally-Manacaud side will have a height of 5.5m and width 12m. A light vehicular underpass has been proposed on one end of Akkulam bridge with a height of 3.5m and width of 10.5m. There will be another light vehicular underpass of same dimensions at near Uday Samudra at Kovalam.
 
 In addition to all the new underpasses, the NHAI has also got in-principle approval for construction of 5 foot overbridges across NH primarily to facilitate smooth commutation of school-going children. The foot overbridges will be steel structures. It will come up near MGM School, Kuzhivila, Cordova Public School, Amabalathara, STH Muttathara and two near Kovalam. Around Rs3 crore will be spent for construction of steel flyovers. 
 
 Meanwhile, one of the major milestone in the project – construction of a new bridge parallel to the existing bridge – will be completed and opened for traffic soon. 
 
 
