PATNA: One Ravi Jalan has filed a complaint case against RJD chief   and his younger son Tejashwi Prasad Yadav for defaming him by their allegations in public that he was one of the beneficiaries in the multi-crore Srijan funds scam. The court of chief judicial magistrate in Patna will hear the case on Wednesday, said Jalan’s lawyer Radhe Shyam Singh. 

 Jalan, a businessman dealing in precious metals and gems, filed the case on Tuesday in the court of chief judicial magistrate in Patna under Section 500 (punishment for defamation), Section 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace) and Section 505 (statements conducing to public mischief) of Indian Penal Code. He cited the public statements by Lalu and Tejashwi on September 9 and 10 that the CBI investigating the government funds embezzlement case was not arresting Jalan despite evidences against him. 
 
 The RJD chief and his son had also alleged that Jalan’s firm was paid money from the Srijan scam for selling diamond jewellery to deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi’s cousin Rekha Modi and others on different occasions.
 
 Jalan, in his case, mentioned before the court that his firm had sold jewellery to Rekha’s two different firms and it was not possible for them to know the legitimacy of the source of payment made against the purchases. Jalan submitted that he had only business relations with Rekha.
 
 He pleaded that the Lalu-Tejashwi duo had brought disrepute to him and his business in the eyes of his customers.
 
 Sources said the CBI sleuths had detected electronic money transfer from Srijan Mahila Vikas Sahyog Samiti’s bank account to that of Jalan’s firm’s to the tune of Rs7 crore on different occasions in 2015 for purchases of diamond jewellery allegedly made by Rekha. Sources said Rs5 crore was paid to Rajesh Craft Jewellery at Chandni Chowk in New Delhi while Rs2 crore was paid to Agarwal Jewellers in Lucknow through RTGS against purchase of jewellery. 
 
 The businessman had earlier issued a press release claiming that they had received payment through RTGS from the bank accounts of Srijan and Ricky Tasha Boutique and all rules and norms were followed in selling the jewellery to Rekha.
 
 
