PUNE: The cervical biopsy of the 21-year-old  , who underwent the country's first uterus transplant in Pune, showed no signs of rejection, exactly seven days after the transplant surgery. 

 Cervical biopsy is considered gold standard to gauge organ rejection in uterus transplant, which is usually carried out at first, second and fourth week following the operation. The procedure is then carried out on monthly basis thereafter. The biopsies are taken to detect histopathological (tissue-related) signs of rejection.
 
 On May 18, surgeons at the   in Pune performed the first uterus transplant in the country. The procedure was aimed at allowing the recipient, suffering from congenital absence of uterus, to give birth via caesarean section.
 
 On the very next day of this transplant, another transplant surgery was carried out on a 24-year-old Vadodara woman who had a dysfunctional uterus. Both the patients are off all the tubes and are accepting oral feeds now.
 
 "When we took out cervical tissues for the biopsy on Thursday (May 25), the colour of the transplanted uterus was pink and healthy. It bled a little during the biopsy, which is a good indication of blood flow and of organ acceptability. Biopsy is the hard evidence clearly revealing that there is no rejection of the transplanted uterus," oncosurgeon   said. He carried out the transplant with cardiothoracic surgeon   and a team of 10 more doctors.
 
 Puntambekar said, "In uterine transplant, the only way to know the rejection is cervical biopsy. The uterus cannot be biopsied from outside and will need anaesthesia. Hence, the cervical biopsy is taken. The cervical biopsy is the easiest to do as it can be done without anaesthesia and is painless."
 
 Explaining the chances of infections in uterine transplant,   said, "Other transplanted organs like liver and kidney are all inside the abdominal cavity. Even heart is inside the chest cavity so they are not exposed to the atmosphere hence the risk of infection is comparatively less. However, the uterus is the only organ which is exposed to the atmosphere through the cervix and hence maximum precautions have to be taken to prevent the infections."
 
 "The preliminary report of the cervical biopsy of the second recipient's is also normal. The final report is awaited," he added.
 
