MOHALI: Family members of a man who died in a road accident after being hit by a rashly-driven motorcycle, have been granted Rs 24.02 lakh compensation.

 The decision came from the court of Puneet Mohan Sharma, presiding officer,  , Mohali, who directed Amandeep Singh, the accused bike rider from Kharar, Harmeet Singh, owner of the bike in question and resident of Kharar and   to jointly pay compensation of Rs 24.02 lakh to the family of the deceased, Om Parkash. 
 
 Family members of Om Parkash, including his wife Veena Rani, 42 and children stated in the petition that Om Parkash died in a road side accident on October 5, 2014. He was riding a motorcycle at normal speed with his daughter Neha riding pillion. When they reached near Bansa Wali Chungi, Kharar, Amandeep came from the direction of Kharar, driving a motorcycle in a rash and negligent manner. He rammed into Om Parkash’s bike. 
 
 As a result, Om Parkash and his daughter fell on the road and sustained multiple injuries. They were taken to the Mohali phase 6 civil hospital, from where Om Parkash was referred to  , where he died. 
 
 The claimants, including wife Veena Rani, 42, daughter Neha Pasrija, 20, daughter Sheela Pasrija, 17 and son Gurcharan Pasrija, 13, who were dependent on the deceased, sought compensation of Rs 50 lakh from the respondents, jointly and severally.
 
 Upon issuance of the notice of the claim petition to the respondents, Amandeep and Harmeet appeared and contested the claim petition, while United India Insurance (insurer of the bike) did not appear despite being served notice and were proceeded ex-parte.
 
 During the trial, the court said, “It has to be borne in mind that the Motor Vehicles Act does not envisage holding a trial for a petition preferred under Section 166 of the Act. Under Section 168 of the Act, a Claims Tribunal is enjoined to hold an inquiry to determine compensation which must appear to it to be just. Strict rules of evidence are not applicable in an inquiry conducted by the Claims Tribunal.” Sunil Kumar, a witness of the accident, said, “The accident in question has occurred due to rash and negligent riding by Amandeep.” 
 
 
