 made history by becoming the costliest-ever foreign buy in the   earlier this year when Pune bought him for a staggering Rs 14.5 crore. Stokes, the smashing allrounder from England, visited 
 's office for a freewheeling session with the editorial team. He shed light on many aspects of his career, international cricket and the IPL, endearing himself to everyone with his candid answers and delightful quips

 
 
 I know it is a tough place to come and play, let alone win. The standard of cricket the two teams (India and Australia) showed during the series was very high. It's a shame we could not produce something close to what Australia managed to do against India. It is very difficult to play Ashwin and Jadeja on Day 3 or Day 4 pitches. Jadeja is now the best bowler in the world. There are no excuses. People seem to forget it was 4-0 in 2011 when India were in England (laughs).
 
 
 
 I think yes, considering how well the Australian spinners did. Our spinners weren't as successful as them. We have got two good spinners in Moe ( ) and Rash ( ). Moe has got a lot of control and of course we have Adil, who is a leg spinner and a wicket-taker. Looking back at our series, we just weren't good enough at the time... nothing against Moe and Rash.
 
 
 
 I thought it's always good to have people who can do both, I guess. (Laughs) In our Test side and ODI side, I think we are very, very lucky considering how deep we bat...which could allow another specialist batsman or a specialist bowler to come in. Yes, we had a bad series against India, but we are not going straight back to the drawing board and start thinking that we have some problems because we really don't. It was just a really bad series. You have to hold your hands up and say that when a team beats you, they were a lot better than us. I don't think it was a case of playing too many all-rounders.
 
 
 
 Yes, it is tough. The way I look at it is we are doing a job that we love. We are now making a living out of something that we played as kids to have fun. Here we spend a lot of time away from home but we are also pursuing a career that we enjoy and love. You have to make some sacrifices, which is spending time away from home. New Zealand and Australia are two countries where we want to be spending five months. They are very similar to English living. I have got a family in New Zealand. I was brought up there.
 
 
 
 I arrived in India this morning (Thursday). I have been with Steve and Jinks (Ajinkya Rahane) all day. It was good catching up with them and a couple of other guys involved with Pune.
 
 
 
 To be honest, I have been listening to Rahane and Smith being asked about the Test series.... enjoyed a couple of laughs. They handled it really well. In a way they said what has happened has happened. They both want to forget about that as they are in the same team and want to perform well for their team. There did not seem any battle between them. I don't think it was just for show. That's what my day has been, listening to them about their rivalry.
 
 
 
 I guess I have never really been caught up in a situation like that on the field with one person. I always try and leave anything that happens on the pitch... for example, Virat and I had a few run-ins during the Test series and once that was done and we walked past each other, we would chat and say Hi. You don't really get to know anyone off the pitch, so I try to use that time to get to know them because you are only really associated with the person that they are on the pitch, and that can be a little complicated.
 
 
 
 No, I have never had a thought about that. The only thing that would stop me from wanting to play all three formats is fitness. If I ever get left out of any of the squads, I wouldn't be saying I am going to concentrate on one format and leave out the others, because every time you play for England, in whatever format, it is a special moment.
 
 
 
 Everyone has started to see the change in terms of how people are approaching 50 year cricket. There used to be a time where people used to score 3-4 runs per over. Now it is 6-7 runs per over. I don't think there is a need to change the format.
 
 
 
 The rankings are there for a reason. They do tell the truth. You only get there if you are. His record of the Indian winter was exceptional. You can't deny how well he has been bowling. So judging by that, he is the best bowler in the world at the moment.
 
 
 
 Tim Murtagh, who plays for Middlesex. In April, when the wickets are green, the new Dukes ball goes sideways off the wicket. He either takes my edge or hits me on the knee roll. In India, the spinners are the most difficult. You face them for a long period of time. Some balls spin, some balls skid. Tough to get a reading on what it's going to do. I found Ashwin very tough because of the height, bounce and the invariable spin he got. Jadeja was very accurate and bowled at good pace. But at the same time, you have Umesh Yadav who bowls 90mph reverse swing. He is hard to face as well.
 
 
 
 You learn how it is the more time you spend here. We were here for three months for the Tests and ODIs. You get to learn about the passion that Indians have for cricket. Pretty much everyone recognizes you especially when the series is going on. A lot of players are not able to make it to the IPL because our seasons overlap. Now it's a great opportunity for not just me, but all the other English players to come here and focus on T20 skills for a long period of time.
 
 
 
 I think there has been talk of England going into franchise cricket in T20 in 2020.I think that is a really good thing to expose the younger guys to best players in the world. If we do that, we will get the Gayles and the De Villiers and the Kohlis and they will be able to share dressing room with them, play against them.
 
 
 
 Still talking about that! (Laughs) It sounds weird as I was the person who got dealt with. Looking back at it, it was an amazing thing to be involved with. It captured everyone's attention. It always seems to be the big games that make moments like that happen. I wasn't the first person to be hit for four sixes in a row and I obviously won't be the last. When Carlos (Brathwaite) and I met, we did not mention this at all. We did a few interviews as there was a lot of hype around the whole last over thing before the series started. We both said that we are going to put it behind us and try and start moving forward.
 
 
 
 Great batting and crap bowling (laughs).
 
 
 
 At the time, it was very, very hard. Felt that I let my teammates and country down.
 
 
 
 No, I did not. I think I must have received a text from him. I got texts from so many people. I try and deal with success as I deal with failure. I try and not get too high when I do well because it does not necessarily mean I will do well the next day. Same with failure. If I fail today, does not mean I am going to fail tomorrow.
 
 
 
 I can't read (jokes and laughs). I can read but I don't.
 
 
 
 I think it's a bit deep really with all of that. The biggest hitters in the world, with a small or thin bat, hit it just as far. I do not see it as an issue.
 
 
 
 It's a good thing for us. I know there was a lot of noise on social media that Dhoni is not captain, Smith is captain. We still want the people to come in and support us. It is exactly the same team, just a different captain. Dhoni will be doing exactly the same thing. We are just trying to win games. We have got Faf as well. It's surely a good thing to have so many different players who captained different teams in so many different conditions. We are all too professional to hold any grudges. Once you cross over the white line, all you want to do is win.
 
 
 
 I think that was said with a bit of tongue in cheek. I don't really know how I will be able to spy on him in a cricket field because it is pretty exposed.
 
 
 
 My physio just sent me one. There's some special stuff that he puts on my toes so that they are in good nick when I come back. That's about it. It's only four overs.
 
 
 
 I don't like curry. I do like daal and naan. I eat western type of food in the hotel restaurants. I am not a big fan of the Indian cuisine.
 
 
 
 I have toured India, South Africa and Australia. Obviously, the fact that it is an Ashes series, it builds up even more than India and South Africa. There's so much hype around it and much media attention. The feeling around the Ashes is the biggest for us and I reckon Australia will also say the same.
 
 
 
 Coming to India and winning is that hard. Probably that would be second after Ashes.
 
 
 
 One on the left arm is about my family heritage... pretty much the history of my family tribe. The one on the right arm has my son and daughter's names written (Layton and Libby). Below it came after the World T20 final. It is a phoenix. I like the meaning of it... rising from the ashes.
 
 
 
 As an old Glenn McGrath said 5-0...(laughs)
 
 
 
 The biggest thing that made that change was the fact that we were focusing on our game --as a team, as individuals. Our philosophy is to focus on ourselves, and yes, take your time out and buy yourself some time to study your opponents. Eoin Morgan has been good driving force.
 
 
 
 (Interrupts) Root, Kohli, Smith and Williamson. They don't get out. They don't want to get out. They are the ones who want to have the big hundreds against their names. They work relentlessly on their game. When any team comes to play against England, they want to get Root early as we want to get Kohli, Williamson and Smith.
 
 
 
 Kane (Williamson) is very hard to get out, doesn't necessarily punish you whereas Smith and Kohli have a more destructive gear once they have get to an 80 or a 100. Once Kane's in, he is in. He doesn't obviously change gears but he ends up getting 150 off 200 anyway.
 
 
 
 We did have a plan to hang it outside the off-stump and test his ego actually, to see if he could keep leaving ball after ball. It worked on a few occasions. We just wanted be more boring for longer periods.
 
 
 
 Joe Root.
 
 
 
 (Shakes his head)... I watched cricket just because I liked watching the game. I didn't ever have a hero or idolised someone. I always loved watching one person and that is Herschelle Gibbs because he was one of the first people to go to the top of the order and smack the ball over the top... even the way he fields, diving around, amazing catches and stops.
 
 
 
 I was playing at a festival in Canterbury. Parents had the doors open with the coverage on the radio. And you would hear big cheer but nothing happened in our game. That series captured the imagination of cricket fans again. It was a huge thing for England, not just as a cricket team but as a nation. The grounds were filling up again. The queues to get into ground stretched to the corner.... something we are trying to do as a Test team now.
 
 
 
 I would go round the wicket and bowl wide, pretty much same to Kohli because I reckon I'll just give in and have a whack at it.
 
 
 
 Definitely bat against, judging by the World T20 final (laughs).
 
 
 
 If you look at the last two years, the way cricket has changed, the more T20 cricket is being played the more the standard of ODI cricket has improved. More runs are getting scored... 350 now is a pretty common score. Five to six years ago if a team got to 300, they felt they had pretty much won the game. But 300 now makes one feel they have not got much runs on the board. That is how the game is progressing. T20 has helped in that. Who knows where ODI cricket will be in five years... maybe 400 will be a par score by then. 
 
 
 
 
 Born and raised in Christchurch, Canterbury, New Zealand and moved to northern England in 2003 at the age of 12.
 
 His father Gerard was a renowned former rugby player for All Blacks and coach of New Zealand.
 
 Ben was a decent rugby player but finally chose cricket as his preferred sport at the age of 14.
 
 According to BBC.co.uk, at the age of 13, Stokes was a raw talent but the family did not have enough money at that time as Gerard had lost his job. Someone spotted Stokes' potential and offered to pay for his coaching. According to reports, only Stokes and wife Clare know the identity of this secret benefactor.
 
 Ben created a stir by sporting a garment which looked like a bra.
 
 He later explained in a tweet that the garment holds a GPS tracker in the back.
 
 Lockergate: In the third T20 International match against West Indies in 2014, Ben got out on duck off his first delivery. He was so frustrated that he punched the locker in dressing room, which led to a fracture in his hand. He, of course, vowed never to do that again.
 
 This was though not the first time when Stokes had anger issues -he once broke a bone during his club cricket days by hitting a fire door.
 
 Scored a century in his debut series against Australia in Perth.
 
 During the first Test between England and New Zealand in May 2015 at Lord's, he scored a matchwinning hundred.
 
 He has quite a few nicknames -teammates call him Rocky and later teased with the name Hurt Locker.
 
 Sports several tattoos on both arms ­ one depicting his family lineage, one dedicated to his wife and children and one, the phoenix, which was engraved after the devastating final World T20 against West Indies.
 
 His 258 against South Africa in just 198 balls in January 2016 at Cape Town is the highest Test innings by a batsman at No. 6 position. In that innings, Stokes and Jonny Bairstow added 399 runs, which is the highest Test stand for sixth wicket.
 
 His favourite batsman and bowler are Kevin Pietersen and Dale Steyn respectively, while his favourite food is omelette.
 
 
 
