PATNA: A division bench of Patna high court’s comprising Chief Justice Rajendra Menon and   on Thursday asked the state government to file a fresh affidavit stating why encroachments on the roads of Patna have not been removed yet. The bench was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by one Vikash Chandra alias   over encroachment on roads at Lalji Market, Hathua Market, Bari Path Road, Ashok Rajpath, Patna Market, Station Road, Mahavir Mandir to GPO roundabout and area in front of bar council of Patna  . 

 Chandra had pleaded that encroachment is creating problem during peak hours for public and worst affected segment of the society are the schoolchildren, who have to bear a lot of pain due to artificial traffic blockade, especially near a mall at Patliputra.
 
 He said the then Chief Justice   and Justice Anjana Mishra had on September 20 asked the state to file counter affidavit over which the hearing took place again on Thursday. “The home department has issued letter on November 5 last year to officials concerned for removal of encroachment, but no action has been taken yet,” Chandra said, adding the next hearing will take place after four weeks. 
 
 PIL on Ganga pollution: Close on the heels of Uttarakhand high court declaring Ganga as a living entity on March 20, a public interest litigation (PIL) has been filed before Patna high court on Thursday to check pollution along the banks of the river, especially in Patna.
 
 The petitioner,  , said the PIL has been filed on the basis of a Hindi newspaper report which said sewage water from 174 drains are being discharged in the Ganga and this has resulted in high pollution, which is almost 18 times above the prescribed limit. The petitioner has also sought removal of illegal riverside construction. 
 
 He said after the Uttarakhand high court’s order, sections of Indian Penal Code are now applicable on persons who will ill-treat the river. The petitioner has also urged the court to punish the guilty officials, who failed to keep the Ganga free of pollution.
 
