BHANGAR: The back-to-back arrests of CPI-ML (Red Star)   and Pradip Singh Thakur, spearheading the   under the banner of ‘Jami, Jibika, Bastutantra O Paribesh Raksha Committee’ threatened to ignite a fresh flare-up in the   on Thursday. The protesters on Friday, however, responded by calling off their blockade — an immediate fallout of the arrests — and announcing a long-drawn political battle that will start with a protest rally in Kolkata on Monday.

 Charged with attempt to murder and   of arms and explosives, among others, Chowdhury and Thakur were remanded in eight days’ police custody till February 3. The same charges were slapped against a local — Shahnawaz Mollah — who was ferrying Chowdhury when they were intercepted on Wednesday. While the arrest of journalist-turned-activist Chowdhury put Bhangar on edge, septuagenarian Thakur’s arrest on Thursday led to protesters putting up road blockades in 18 places, primarily in Bokdoba and Natunhat, which choke off an entire road stretch, and the villages — Khamarait, Machhi Bhanga, Tona and Padmapukur — which hem the now-abandoned Powergrid’s Rajarhat 400/220 KV sub-station.
 
 Police were relegated to the sidelines on Thursday and it took Bidhannagar mayor and Rajathat-New Town MLA Sabyasachi Dutta to step into Bhangar again on Thursday evening with his followers. For the second time, Dutta and his aides removed the roadblocks. “Agitators should not feel that the administration is weak. We want to restore peace and bring normalcy,” he said, but his action sparked another round of agitation. Dutta had to go back, the task half-finished. According to Trinamool sources, Dutta’s speech angered the locals and threatened to undo the party’s week-long outreach to regain a toe-hold in the zone after January 17.
 
 Committee convener and senior CPI-ML (Red Star) leader Alik Chakraborty told the media on Friday: “The blocks will be removed, but protests will go on. It is apparent who the people are with when you see Dutta getting brickbats and an outpouring of support when our leaders are arrested. I appeal to all to join us on the protest rally on January 30 from College Square.” 
 
 State education minister Partha Chatterjee, however, said, “The withdrawal of the movement shows that the people of Bhangar are not with the outsiders, but with Mamata Banerjee. The movement of Bhangar can never be compared with Singur. This government is committed to the people and we will never acquire a single inch of land without the consent of the people. It has become obvious now that the opposition were trying to create disturbance in the area.”. 
 
 In another development, additional SP (East Zone) South 24-Parganas Arijit Sinha was transfered to take over as SS, CID, Bengal. Bhangar used to be under Sinha’s jurisdiction till the transfer.
 
 (With inputs from Monotosh Chakraborty) 
 
