Surat: It’s high time that the authorities and the ruling BJP leaders of Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) start taking ‘smart’ decisions to provide timely, fast and uninterrupted services to the residents of the Diamond City. 

 While the residents are eagerly awaiting an effective mass transportation system, the civic body has delayed the dedication of 75   and three new BRTS routes just because chief minister Vijay Rupani, who is visiting the city on March 5, could not allot time to the SMC due to his busy schedule. Now, the ruling BJP leaders are waiting for the chief minister’s next date and till then the residents will have to suffer. 
 
 SMC standing committee chairman Rajesh Desai told TOI, “We have put forth a list of public utility projects for inauguration at the hands of the chief minister. He is on a very short visit to the city on Sunday to attend two events, other than of the SMC. In the past, we have inaugurated public utility projects, without waiting for big dignitaries like the chief minister or cabinet ministers.” 
 
 In order to make the mass transportation system more effective, the civic body has decided to run around 1,000 city buses, covering various routes in the city. As per the plan, around 100 buses have already been pressed into service and more are being added to the fleet as per availability and supply by the automobile company. 
 
 Sources said the 75 new city buses have already been dispatched and are parked at the bus depot of the SMC. When the buses are ready to hit the road, the ruling BJP leaders are waiting for the chief minister or the deputy chief minister to dedicate them to the public.
 
 Congress councillor from Varachha, Ashok Jirawala, said, “In the wider interest of general public, the civic body should not wait for the VVIP dignitaries to dedicate the public utility projects. The unnecessary delay is causing a lot of trouble to the pedestrians, especially those travelling between Chowk Bazaar and railway station.”
 
 Apart from this, the civic body has already completed the three BRTS routes namely Valak to Kamrej, Puna to Godadara and Sahara Darwaja to Saniyahemad. The ruling BJP leaders are waiting for the chief minister and deputy chief minister to dedicate them. 
 
 
