HYDERABAD: Wrong lane driving is no longer the city’s  . The number of cases of people driving on the wrong side of the road has come down, but police admit this could just be due to the overall  . Currently, the peak hour traffic speed is 12 km per hour.

 The slow moving traffic makes it very difficult for motorists to drive on the wrong side of the road during peak hours. “The violations still happening in the city are mostly during early morning or late night hours. While massive awareness campaigns have managed to bring this down, both speeding and driving on the wrong lane are rampant on the   (ORR) due to its high speed limits. We are booking about 200 cases per day,” said A R Srinivas, deputy commissioner of police (Traffic), Cyberabad.
 
 Traffic police, however, admit that the number of cases booked for any violation might only be a fraction of the actual incidence. Moreover, the decrease in wrong lane driving is being compensated by increase in other violations. Driving without helmets has taken the top slot, followed by parking on service roads.
 
 The overall decrease in wrong lane driving seems to have been brought about by measures like closing of gaps in medians that divide roads. Ironically, the same move has led to more cases of wrong lane driving in certain areas as motorists attempt to take shorter routes.
 
 “The median gaps between   and Neeru’s Junction are often closed, making the U-turn longer by 1.5 km to 2 km. One can see so many people driving on the wrong side on this stretch to avoid making the long detour,” said motorist A Satyanarayana Rao.
 
 Another motorist admitted to honking continuously at wrong lane drivers to ensure they fall in line even as he said he does the violation during non-peak traffic hours. “Although I have driven on the wrong side near Hafeezpet petrol bunk due to the long U-turn, I don’t do the same in heavy traffic. I also do not allow anyone to do so. I honk at them and block their way,” he said.
 
 Experts say closing down medians will not be helpful in the long run. “Closing down medians without providing an alternative is just crisis management. Road planning remains poor. If you go on continuously closing down medians, it will only create havoc at another spot where the median is open,” said Prof. P R Bhanumurthy, transportation and road safety expert. The solution to wrong lane driving, he said, is raising the road level and building underpasses in areas where this violation is rampant.
 
