GORAKHPUR: Buoyed by encouraging GDP growth figures released by the Central Statistics Office (CSO) which showed demonetisation did not cause the kind of damage predicted by his rivals and critics, PM Modi on Wednesday defended his decision, and said that “hard work has won over Harvardeducated economists, who had predicted otherwise“.

 “Well-known intellectuals from Harvard and Oxford (universities), who have held key positions in the Indian economic system for 40-50 years, said GDP would go down by 2% while others said it would go down by 4%,“ Modi said at a rally in UP on Wednesday. Without taking names, Modi added, “On one hand, there is this son of a poor mother who believes in hard work and is trying to change the economy of the country through hard work, and on the other is this group of intellectuals which just talks about Harvard and does nothing. People have proved that hard work is more effective.“ 
 
 The jibe appeared to be aimed at Nobel-winning economist Amartya Sen, who taught at Harvard, and former finance minister P Chidambaram, who graduated from Harvard Law School, and many other economists critical of who have said that demonetisation has crippled the economy. The government data released by CSO, however, suggested that the country may have been spared the visitation, with the economy not being hit significantly.
 
 The Maharajganj rally saw the PM asserting that BJP's victory in the crucial UP polls was a foregone conclusion. He said the only issue yet to be decided was whether the party would get a two-thirds or three-fourths majority.
 
 The “Harvard versus hard work“ theme fits well with the PM's narrative describing himself as the common man who has come up trumps despite the resistance from elites disdaining him.
 
 “This group of people made a lot of noise on my decision of demonetisation and alleged that I have applied brakes on the high pace of development. Surprisingly, even before my decision of note ban, they used to say that the country's growth rate is plunging sharply,“ the PM said.
 
 “I want to say that our country has made its place among the fastest growing economies of the world. As per statistics released on Tuesday, there is no effect of note ban on the GDP rate. They were saying that GDP will go down by 2-4% due to demonetisation, but my poor farmers, labourers and youth have proved them wrong. Main unko shat shat naman karta hoon (I salute them a hundred times),“ he added, drawing a loud cheer from the crowd.
 
