Madurai: Around 50% of the state transport corporation buses stayed off the road due to the state-wide indefinite strike called by a section of trade unions, after talks between the unions and the state government failed. Bus terminals in Madurai and other southern districts wore a deserted look on Monday. 

 Sensing poor bus connectivity, many passengers postponed their trips resulting in lesser crowds and fewer numbers of buses operated in southern districts. In Madurai, other modes of transport like share autos and mini buses came to the rescue of the public.
 
 However, officials from Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) claimed that they managed to operate around 60% of regular services. An official from the TNSTC, Madurai region said, “We managed to operate around 50% of the buses in the city whereas 70% was achieved in long route buses. We were equipped to operate more number of buses, but drew only fewer crowds as the public anticipated trouble and kept away,” the official said. 
 
 Another official said that there are 962 bus routes operated on a regular basis, of which 455 routes were operated without any issues. They were also thinking of alternative ways, like roping in temporary staff, who have enough experience in driving, to cater to the public. 
 
 The transport employees attached to a section of trade unions including CPM’s Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) and DMK’s Labour Progressive Federation (LPF) called for the strike as negotiations with the government for their various demands like wage revision, settlement of retirement benefits and payment of operational deficit to the transport corporations. Many trade unions, including the AIADMK’s Anna Trade Union did not take part in the strike.
 
 The employees on strike urged other employees, who turned up for work to join them. They also staged protests in front of depots. Local ministers and MLAs visited the depots to persuade the protesting employees, but to no avail. Meanwhile, tension prevailed at a depot on Bypass Road as employees protested using   sheets, in an attempt to taunt minister for cooperation Sellur K Raju, who visited the depot. 
 
 Heavy police protection was provided to ensure safety to government vehicles. Although no untoward incident was reported in Madurai and southern districts, police warned stringent action against those indulging in violence.
 
 
