CHENNAI: With two more weeks to go for the puja long weekend, air fares have already shot up to such an extent that it is cheaper to fly to Delhi than to Madurai, Coimbatore, Trichy, Kochi or Thiruvanathapuram.

 The fares have risen as there is a huge demand for air tickets given that the extended weekend falls on  , a time when some schools also close after quarterly examination. A one-way trip costs close to Rs 5,000 to these destinations for 14 days advance booking and the fares are expected to go up further.
 
 The increased fares to destinations that can be reached in less than an hour’s flight shows that it may be ideal for people who have not made their holiday plans yet to look at destinations around Mumbai and Delhi than travelling home to be with relatives in small towns, said an   official.
 
 SOTC Travel said   of   in Gujarat, Goa, Himachal Pradesh, Leh and Ladakh are popular with tourists for short getaways during long weekends this year. Sri Lanka and   are also popular because of the visa-on-arrival facility.
 
 One-way fare from Chennai to Kochi is in the price range of Rs 4,300 to Rs 9,100 while flights to Madurai costs Rs 3,000 to Rs 5,000 for travel on September 28.
 
 Basheer Ahmed of   said, “Fares have remained slightly on the higher side during weekends as this year has the most number of long weekends as holidays fall on Friday. High fare means majority of the people have already made their plans. August saw a lot of people travelling.”
 
 As people are aware of when these extended weekends fall, they have started making reservations. A senior official of a private airlines said people in the south travel home during traditional holidays like Deepavali and Pongal but will try to travel for leisure and sightseeing on other holidays. “Flights go full and international fares too are slightly higher because of the demand,” he added.
 
 He also said that bookings have already started for Deepavali and Christmas long weekends and fares at the bottom slab have been sold out. Prices are hovering in the range of Rs 3,000 to Rs 4,000 on shorthaul domestic routes.
 
