NAGPUR: An exhibition was held on the occasion of the ‘World Meteorological Day’ in the premises of RMC,   on Thursday which saw several city schools taking part in it. The theme of the event was ‘Understanding Clouds’ which also held a discussion regarding the importance of clouds corresponding to the weather and its changes, encouraging the young minds to explore their creativity through this project. The main aim of the function was The observatory of the centre was open for the public and people were able to survey the different instruments present.
 
 More than 150 participants including children, teachers and parents from different schools of the city participated in the event. 
 
 “Clouds are the best example of something that can be so simple yet so delicate and inquisitive at the same time”, said Rajendra Prasad, Deputy Director General of Meteorology ( ), Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC) at an exhibition cum presentation on Thursday to celebrate. 
 
  (IMS) formerly organized a painting contest for students of STD. VI and VII on the topic "Understanding Clouds". More than 100 students took part, showcasing their creativity. The winners of the contest were presented with their prize at the held event by Prasad, DDGM, RMC. 
 
 Different stalls were showcased in the function premises comprising of various instruments like Automatic Weather Station, Rain gauges, Compressors, open pan evapometer, thermometer etc the public were given an overview about the functioning of the instruments and were made aware about its importance and effects on climate change. 
 
 Research papers on climate change were also presented at a session held, as part of the occasion. Different ideas were brought forth by various scientists on current weather scenarios and ways to better them. “ I am very happy with the turnout and the interest as well as awareness of the general public especially kids in meteorology sector and hope the young minds can improve beat of the situation”. 
 
 AD Thate, organizer of the event had worked hard for the event and praised the enthusiasm of the participants. 
 
 (Reporting by Praveen Tweari)
 
 
