This wasn’t a regular dog show with owners dressing their pets in fancy costumes to compete with each other. It was a dog championship where the breeds were awarded on the basis of their sizes, weight and coordination with their handlers. The   organized by the   affiliated to the Kennel Club of India had breeds who competed with each other under categories such as ‘Best in Show’, ‘Best Breed’, ‘Best Puppy’ and many more.
 
 
 
 The exhibitors at the competition brought breeds like Huskies, Akitas, Great Danes, Bulldogs,  , to name a few. “This year, 42 breeds entered the competition and we had almost 262 dogs in total for the competition, including Rottweilers, Tibetan Mastiff, and special breeds,” said Sagar Chawla, joint secretary of Gurugram Kennel Club.
 
 
  
  Get, set, go: A husky with his handler getting ready to beat the other dogs in competition (BCCL)
 
 
 
 Deepika Tomar, a resident of Sector 9, added, "Though I came quiet late for the competition and missed most of the event but I think it is a great platform for the exhibitors to show the best of their breeds."
 Narender Pal Singh, who came with his St Bernard, told us, "The best thing about the competition is that there is no scope of being biased. Jo standards se match hoga, woh champion ban jayega."
 
 
  
  Annnnd... strech! A   being measured for the competition (BCCL)
 
 
 
 
 
 Each breed had its own specification and whoever was closest to the given standards, was titled as the champion. Each breed had a round of its own and the judges not only looked at their size, height and other parameters, but also noticed the coordination with the handler. "We ask the handlers to show the movement of the breed, usme bhaagna nahi hota, bas yeh dikhana hota hai ki uski movement kaisi hai," explains Sagar.
 T Preetham, who came from Bangalore to judge the competition, told us, "Each breed has a standard and we judge the dog closest to that standard in terms of height, length of the body, shape of the eyes and length of the neck. Different breeds have different standards, so they are judged on that basis."
 
 
