THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The inaugural ceremony of the   government’s first anniversary celebrations on Thursday witnessed an emotionally-charged chief minister rubbishing the ‘destructive criticism’ of opposition leaders, who were conspicuous by their absence. Veteran CPM leader   too was not present on the occasion.

 Welcoming healthy criticisms from the public and underlining the government’s willingness to move forward by rectifying its mistakes and shortcomings,   said in his inaugural address that even destructive criticism will not be able to distract the government from achieving its goals.
 
 “There are people who are disturbed by our achievements and they come out with allegations. Such allegations will make us more stubborn in discharging our duties, in the right way,” he said at the event presided over by CPI leader and revenue minister E Chandrasekharan.
 
 The event was attended by his entire cabinet and representatives of political allies. While the opposition and BJP MLA O Rajagopal boycotted the event for obvious political reasons, sources close to Achuthanandan said he skipped the programme as he was not offered a seat on the dais.
 
 Unleashing an attack on the previous UDF government, Vijayan said the new government had to shoulder the ‘sins committed by the previous government, which violated all rules and precedence, thus allowing the misuse of government mechanisms’. “The entire system was shattered and the new government had to begin from that point,” he said.
 
 In an hour-long speech, the chief minister listed out various achievements of the government during the past one year. “The government is committed to implement the promises outlined in the election manifesto one by one, besides taking up other issues as they emerge. The LDF has a clear position on development that is based on social justice,” he said.
 
 Giving priority to infrastructure development, the chief minister said that the government would implement various projects, including Petronet LNG in Kochi, six-lane national highways, Rs 6,500-crore coastal highway and Rs 3,500-crore hill highway, in a time-bound manner. “National waterways from Kovalam to Kasaragod is another project which is being taken up. Many projects that were thought to be impractical and dropped midway have turned out to be practical under LDF rule,” Vijayan said.
 
 Elaborating on the welfare schemes and measures initiated to help the marginalized sections through four projects under the  , the chief minister said the government succeeded in making huge interventions in various sectors, including labour, traditional industries, PSUs, agriculture and education, over the past one year.
 
 
