After his roka with Mumbai-based   last October, we were the first to tell you that   will get married in February this year. He had told BT, “We are planning to get married sometime in February.” The dates have now been finalised and preparations are on in full swing for Neil’s destination wedding in   on February 9. A source revealed, “The shaadi will be a family affair with close to 500 guests. The functions will kick-start on February 7 with the engagement, followed by mehendi and sangeet a day later. The haldi, chuda and nuptial ceremony will take place on February 9. There will be a dinner and cocktail party after the wedding. The reception, to be held on the 17th at a Mumbai five-star, will be attended by the who’s-who of Bollywood.” Like seen in most high-profile weddings, the invitation cards have been well-crafted. Our source added, “Neil is the grandson of legendary singer Mukesh, so the invite has been designed keeping in mind his family heritage.” 

 The invite, made by a Delhi-based designer, has been curated like a coffee table book. It resembles a vintage-style photo album with every page speaking of a new chapter. Every function has a foreword that comprises paraphrases from Mukesh’s songs. For instance, the invite opens to riveting lines from the film Shor. While the engagement details are preceded by lines from 'Anand', 'Himalay Ki God Mein' becomes the introduction for mehendi and 'Chhalia', for sangeet. A stanza from ' ' announces the wedding, while Mukesh sahab’s iconic title track from ' ' (Kabhi Kabhi Mere Dil Mein Khayal Aata Hai), has been used as the foreword for the reception. The invite also comprises a box of scrumptious chocolate walnut brownies and a semi-precious coin, which has the initials ‘NR’ (Neil and Rukmini) embossed on it. 
 
 Speaking of the regal invite, Neil said, “We wanted it to be personal and so, decided to go ahead with a compilation of memories. The invite has been conceptualised by my parents. It is like a series of love ballads springing to life and I’ve already received so many calls from well-wishers, telling me how much they have loved the thought behind the invite. Everything starts and ends with   in our home.” 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
