KOLKATA: Two days after TOI carried a report on sale of pavement in New Market area,   raided Bertram Street twice to evict a section of hawkers who had  . A team of sleuths from New Market police station conducted a surprise drive on Wednesday. Hawkers who like any other normal days selling their wires in the midst of 30 feet wide Bertram Street were caught unaware. While police seized some items from a section of hawkers who resisted, others were asked to wind up their business from carriageway. However, the effects of the drive were short-lived as most hawkers who had been illegally occupying carriageway returned back to their usual position.

 This necessitated a second drive which was carried out on a day after. However, this time, an alertness among the hawkers about the police action prompted them to wind up their business before police could reach the spot. Traders of New Market and some other prominent markets like SreeRam Arcade, Firpo’s Market or Treasure Island are not happy despite the drive. In fact, around 5000 traders of these markets have formed Joint Traders’ Federation (JTF) to combat the threat from a section of hawkers who have been doing business encroaching either pavement or carriageways in front of these markets.
  
 According to Asraf Ali joint secretary of JTF conducting any types of surprise drives would always lead to a cat and mouse game. “We have seen many a drives which have become a farce so far. We are tired of these drives and now we want real action against those hawkers who have been flouting all norms and still managing to survive,” Ali alleged.
 
 Ashok Gupta, the president of   is also disappointed. “All we need is a clear demarcation of the pavement and the carriageway as was suggested by the state government. A section of hawkers have continuously violating hawking norms with no government agencies taking penal action,” Gupta said.
 
 A   market department official who is responsible for maintenance of New Market conceded that rampant hawking had become a menace for both the traders and the shoppers. “There is definite rule for hawking which allows a hawker only a ¼ space of the pavement to earn his livelihood. But hawking has actually spilled over to carriageway thus creating a mayhem for shoppers,” he said.
 
  Mohammed Bilal, a hawker on Bertram Street, however, conceded that unless the government implements the hawking policy and enforces it strictly, the tendency to grab pavements and carriageways would continue. A police source said that sporadic drives against hawkers who have been illegally occupying carriageways in New Market area would continue. 
 
