AHMEDABAD: With   power plant installations gaining momentum following financial assistance from Central and state governments, a growing number solar water heater makers are now venturing into the business of solar photovoltaic rooftop systems.

 Apart from growing emphasis on solar rooftop projects by the state and Union government, the stagnancy in the solar water heaters market is also driving these manufacturers to get into the solar rooftop systems business.
 
 “There are as many as 171 solar water heater makers in India, including 40 in Gujarat. Almost 80%-90% of them have now diversified into the business of solar rooftops reducing their focus on solar water heating systems,” said Jaideep Malaviya, secretary general,   ( ).
 
 “Consumers are increasingly preferring rooftop plants over solar water heaters in the wake of attractive government subsidy. In other words the roof is more precious for solar power than solar water heating,” Malaviya said.
 
 The central government offers a subsidy of 30% in capital cost (which is Rs 20,700 per kW) for solar rooftop projects, while the state offers additional assistance of Rs. 10,000 per kilowatt (kW). The estimated cost of grid connected 1 kW solar rooftop system is Rs 69,000.
 
 “The solar water heater market has seen stagnancy over the last two years. Moreover, in some cases, the government has kept pending the subsidy given to manufacturers of solar water heaters,” said Pragnesh Raiyani, managing director,  . 
 
 “As against this, there has been a greater push to solar rooftop by the governments. Consequently, many solar water heater makers are now turning to solar rooftop as both segments are related to renewable energy space,” added Raiyani.
 
 Agrees Regal Ghetia, founding partner of Gondal-based Redsun  . “We have also forayed into solar rooftops in last one year as this segment is witnessing good volume,” he said.
 
 “Rather than creating a new business altogether, it makes sense for solar water heater manufacturers to shift to solar rooftop systems business as there is a lot of synergy between both these segments,” Ghetia added. According to him, more than 30% of solar water heater producers have diversified into making solar rooftop systems.
 
 STFI feels solar water heaters lack encouragement from the government, which should come up with policies to provide level-playing to solar waters as well.
 
