Wanting to set the right example for her son,   was driven to lose weight by her sense of motherly duty. Though being overweight didn't bother her much earlier, but seeing her son gain weight gradually and doctors putting it on genetics and lack of physical activity, she decided to shed kilos herself first. And now, she has become a role model not only for her son but many others too. Here's her story from fat to fit.

 
 Shuchi Sharma Bhatnagar 
 
 
  5’6”
 
 
  116 kilos
 
 
  38 kilos
 
 
 The wake-up call was rude but not unexpected. It came one fine morning in my gynae’s waiting room. I was pre-diabetic with high cholesterol and borderline hypertensive. Adding to this, my cycles were increasingly becoming irregular, and I often relied on medication. If this continues, the doctor warned, you could be on medication for the rest of your life. I was only 35. 
 
 I went through numerous   methods. Gym memberships that expired before I managed to visit the gym more than twice. Early morning walks that couldn’t materialize because I don’t believe mornings should be early. Diet plans that failed because of sudden dinner plans or luncheons with friends. Excuses were galore but basically the will was zero.
 
 I had always been overweight and had learned to manage it with confidence. It didn’t really affect my happiness quotient. I was neither ashamed of how I looked nor needed to lose weight to boost my self-esteem. Apart from health, there was no real trigger or motivation to lose weight.
 
 And then it happened. My son turned nine and he was putting on weight fast. Medical investigations revealed nothing and the doctor put it on genetics (inherited from me) and lack of physical exercise. At the threshold of puberty, if he didn’t manage his weight they warned, he could lose out on gaining height as well as be susceptible to health concerns in later life. As a mother, it was my job to ensure he took the steps he needed to. And the first step in motivating him was to set the right example. So that’s what I did. I decided to lose weight so that I can motivate him and become his role model and he knows that it’s doable. 
 
 
 I followed a diet plan based on Ayurveda by nutritionist  . She used to change the plan every week. But broadly, below are the food items that I would recommend for each meal.
 
 
  Oats/Kellogg’s/Milk and fruit with soaked almonds
 
 
 Bran flour chapati or brown rice with veggies
 
 
 Salad, chaach, curd, green tea, dry fruit, fruits (excluding bananas, grapes and chikoo)
 
 
 Dal-chilla/Besan chilla/Veg sandwich/Sprouts salad. I try to have my dinner before 7:30 PM so that there is a gap of 3 hours between my dinner and bedtime.
 
  
  
 
  Gol-Gappas
 
 
 For the first 3 months, I did fusion dance because I was a beginner and gyming was tough. Then for next 3 months, I joined a gym. And the last 3 months, I only did brisk walking, one thing that has remained constant till date.
 
 
 Oats with lots of veggies (Home-made, not ready-to-eat)
 
 
 Drink lots of water. It helps curb hunger and keeps you hydrated. 
 
 
  
 Weighing myself every day. Increased weight keeps me motivated to try harder and declining weight does not allow me to quit. 
 
 
 My son has gained height but not weight and is playing football and learning golf. He keeps me on my toes.
 
 
 Not being able to find nice clothes.
 
 
 Shape doesn’t matter; what matters is being 'fit and healthy'.
 
 
 I try to do some form of exercise daily and try to replace all my unhealthy foods with healthy substitutes. For example, if I party during Saturday night, I compensate it by a low or no carb diet on Sunday along with one hour of brisk walking. 
 
 
  Take out time for yourself. This is for both, working as well as non-working mothers. Try to be self-focused and make healthier preferences for yourself.
 
 
 
 
