BENGALURU: It has been a few months but security agencies haven't got the monkey off their backs as yet, and Aero India 2017 has only enhanced the threat perception of 'backpackers' attempting to launch flying objects, given the magnitude of the show and the strategic assets it will host.

 A letter from the   reached all police departments in south India sometime in August 2016, and has security agencies on alert ever since, in anticipation of teams or lone wolves belonging to terror groups with back packs trained to launch flying objects, possibly even carrying explosives.
 
 Special instructions were delivered through this letter which was composed after a series of meetings that were preceded by intelligence gathering following Pathankot attack in January 2016. State agencies have kept the letter and the information it contains close to their chest, discussing only on a need-toknow basis.
 
 Indian agencies have been in the know that some Paki stan-based terror outfits are imparting training in use of drones and gliders after some terrorists in custody , including 2611 co-conspirator Abu Jundal, revealed the same during interrogation.
 
 Confirming the letter was received, a senior intelligence officer from Karnataka said, “It had even gone to the Mysuru commissioner. Flying objects that can be launched by individuals is a growing threat and the alert only reiterated the fact.We are being cautious and all precautions are being taken.“ Sources f r o m the in telligence department in Tamil Nadu, while con firming the alert, said another alert was received in January -although this wasn't from the IAF.
 
 IAF trains Bengaluru cops
 
 “I cannot comment about the August letter as I've taken charge only in January. The threat perception, however, was discussed in our joint meetings with the IAF ahead of Aero India,“ said Bengalur u police commissioner Praveen Sood.
 
 Sources said that a team of Bengaluru police has received special training from the IAF on how to deal with such a threat. Confirming the devel opment, Sood said, “It is their area of expertise and our men have been sensitized about it.I cannot comment on how many city police personnel have been trained or go into other details.“
 
 According to a source, the IAF has shared a standard operating procedure with this team, although it differs from what the IAF itself may have for its own personnel.While the banning of UAVs, balloons and other aerial vehicles is part of the routine exercise the city police have been carrying out before an important event, other precautions are also in place.
 
  under watch
 
 The intelligence officer said that Nandi hills is on alert and will be on constant watch, which Sood, too, confirmed.While IAF has specialized teams for air defence, it would be impossible to spread them across so many centres. And, although the   itself will have beefed up security, the   letter, another source said, “was sent to all police chiefs not only as precaution but to also prepare them“.
 
 Besides, intelligence offic ers have also carried out reconnaissance and verification in and around Yelahanka. “...Information on new settlers around the air show venue has already been collected and that residents are being vetted,“ a source said.
 
  stretch
 
 A military intelligence officer, who said he could not comment on the August letter from the Southern Air Command, said: “But all the wings of the armed forces have perceived this threat. In fact, there have been alerts issued this year too.“
 
 He said intelligence with the “Indian Navy suggests that one of the best routes to sneak in payloads into south India is through a stretch of water connecting Sri Lanka and Nagapattinam in Tamil Nadu“.
 
 “...The Navy has been keeping a close watch on this stretch as it is one of the closest and easiest ways. There is already a lot of fishermen activity in this stretch too which makes surveillance a hard task sometimes,“ the officer said.
 
