Ever since the Epicentre shut down in January, the number of plays being staged in Gurgaon has also reduced drastically. However, street theatre, by different groups and students, has stepped in to fill the void. And it is the city’s administration that has set the stage, (read: road) for it. Many government departments, including the MCG, HUDA and Gurgaon Police, are taking the street theatre route to spread awareness about various issues. 

 
 
 While different departments work with different theatre groups, the   has its own theatre group that other departments can also use to spread social messages. The department gives a topic to the theatre group they have enlisted, along with pointers about the message the play should convey. The artists then come up with a customised play according to the guidelines. 
 
 
  
  College students perform plays at a Road Safety Week event organised by the Gurgaon Traffic Police in January (BCCL)
 
 
 
 Rajiv, a theatre director, tells us, "Our group has prepared a play on road safety, titled  ,  . But when we were asked to perform it for the Road Safety Week in January, the administration asked us to create subplots depending on where we were performing the play. So when we performed it in Cyber Hub, the theme was drunk driving, and for a performance in a school we went with ‘educate your parents’. The performance includes live music, comedy and audience interaction."
 
 
 
 Ankita Sharma, a theatre actor who has been part of several plays said, "The response has been hugely encouraging. The other day, during a play at Huda City Centre, a few commuters told us about the problems they face during rush hours and asked us to include their problems in our next play."
 
 Lokesh Jain, a theatre director who has directed several plays, said, "These street plays have a very important role and it’s just the beginning in Gurgaon, there has to be greater efforts." 
 
 
 
 
  
  Delivering messages on the road: Soch is one of the theatre groups that has performed plays for government departments in Gurgaon (BCCL)
 
 
 
 
 The success of a play is measured by the conversations it generates and the government officials have realised that people discuss about the plays only after they understand the message. RS Sangwan, DPRO Gurgaon, said, "Whenever a street play is held in public, the concerned department officials are always present and try and make it as appealing as possible for the viewers.'
 
 
  
  Not just another play: Street play topics vary from road safety to health awareness, depending on the government department that is involved (BCCL)
 
 
 ‘
 
 The officials believe that there will be a higher impact if the plays are more dramatic. Sangwan adds, "Depending upon the script, the play directors are also asked to use songs or catchy dialogues. Last month, we had a play on digital India at Haryana fair, which helped people understand the benefits of cashless payments. I remember there was an increase in enquiries about cashless payments immediately after the play."
 
 
  
  Amity University students perform a play during Road Safety Week (BCCL)
 
 
 Balbir Singh, DCP (Traffic) said, "There have been occasions when we have held group discussions and brought in eminent dramatists from the city to talk to commuters. The discussions that sometimes come up help people understand the importance of road safety."
 
 The health department of Gurgaon has organised a play recently, and an official from the department says, "These plays have the capacity to unlock the silence that surrounds important issues. If after watching a play people feel that they can talk about the issues, then our work is done."
 
 
