BENGALURU: Amid a raging debate over the repercussions of former chief minister SM Krishna’s sudden resignation from the Congress on the party's fortunes   said that the senior leader ought not to have taken the decision to part ways with the party. Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president   said that efforts were being made to convince Krishna to withdraw his resignation.

 "Krishna has held many important positions. He has served as Karnataka CM, Maharshtra governor and as external affairs minister. He should not have taken this step," Siddaramaiah said.
 
 Energy minister  , a close aide to Krishna during the latter’s tenure as CM, put out a tweet wherein he said that the Congress remained united. "I take this opportunity to assure all Congress workers and leaders who may be distressed on hearing this news that we are with you, and the Congress is united. The party is focussed on winning the Karnataka assembly polls. Krishna’s followers must not panic, and continue working for the party," his tweet read.
 
 In another tweet, he dubbed Krishna’s decision to leave the party after 45 years ‘unfortunate’. "In his long career, he held several important positions that the Congress assigned him. In recent times, leaders from the Congress high command spoke to him, and told him that they had the utmost respect for his contributions," he said.
 
 Admitting that Krishna’s resignation was a setback to the party, Parameshwara said, "We will try to convince him not to leave the party again. The party does not require only those who praise it, it also needs individuals who criticise."
 
 Party insiders said that Krishna had been voicing his unhappiness about being sidelined for the past three months. "But we did not take it seriously," they added.
 
 Sources in the party said that Krishna’s resignation only provided ammunition to the BJP and JD(S), who would seize the opportunity to take a swipe at the Congress’s treatment of veteran leaders. "But his exit is not likely to have an impact on the fortunes of the Congress in the state. Krishna’s limited campaigns in the 2013 assembly polls, and the 2015 BBMP polls did not help the party," sources said.
 
 Shivakumar on Monday managed to ensure that the party did not lose another leader. Chikkodi MP Prakash Hukkeri who had expressed his desire to quit the party was dissuaded from doing so by the energy minister.
 
 Leaders Sidelined by Congress
 
 Former railway minister CK Jaffer Sharief sent his resignation to the high command, but was convinced by the party to withdraw it
 
 Former state cabinet minister V Srinivasa Prasad quit the party after a cabinet reshuffle last year and joined the BJP
 
 Former KPCC president B Janardhana Poojari agrees with Krishna but said he will not quit.
 
 
