Ahmedabad: Persistent cold and cough and acute breathing problems occurring frequently? Act before it’s too late and check whether you have asthma. Thanks to increasing levels of air pollution in addition to environmental changes and weather changes, the number of asthma cases are on the rise and medical experts have warned that some of the cases are becoming irreversible. 

  
  Around 8.2% (i.e. 7,498) of total deaths across the country are due to asthma according to a report on causes of death in India and around 4% of these deaths are from Gujarat.
 
 An important observation made by city-based medical practitioners is that asthma cases are becoming common among children, especially in the age group between 5 and 10 years. 
 
 “Thanks to frequent climatic changes and increasing pollution, children are getting affected by asthma. Apart from these, pollution and increased intake of junk food are also reasons for kids getting recurrent cold, cough and even rhinitis,” said Dr Tushar Patel, a city-based consultant pulmonologist.
 
 “Asthma basically causes frequent bronchial constrictions and inflammation. This is usually treated using bronchodilators and inhalation of steroids, which help reduce inflammation,” said Dr Gopal Raval, a city-based consultant pulmonologist and chest physician. 
 
 “Frequent constriction and inflammation is often caused due to environment and weather changes and even air pollutants, which leads to a remodelling of the airway. This causes frequent and more severe bouts of asthma among patients,” Dr Raval added.
 
 Apart from environmental factors, random discontinuation of steroids, which primarily help to bring down inflammation, is also one of the reasons behind an irreversible airflow obstruction, say doctors. 
 
 Medical experts feel that the complication is being observed in an increasing number of cases for the past two to three years, and they attribute the phenomenon also to frequent weather changes and increasing pollution levels.
 
 “Avoiding precipitating factors and risk factors is likely to help reduce the effects of asthma, but it is important to continue with treatment,” said Dr Raj Bhagat, a city-based chest physician.
 
 “There are many patients who stop taking their inhalers once they feel better. This can be dangerous and affect their breathing making them feel breathless while doing daily chores,” Dr Bhagat added.
 
  Doctors recommend leading a healthy lifestyle, stress management and minimizing exposure to risk factors, to keep asthma under control.
 
 
