NAGPUR: Day 2 of the ongoing   began with a Carnatic vocal recital by Dharini Veeraraghavan, the winner of last year’s Youth   Contest, organized by SCZCC. Dharini began her presentation with a composition of Mysore Vasudevachari, ‘Pranamamyoham Gauri sutam’ in Gowla ragam, Adi talam. Her second rendition was ‘Bhajore Chitta’ in Kalyani ragam. The young singer finished with Adi Sankaracharya’s shloka ragamalika Bhaj Govindam. 

 With the audience occupying barely one fourth of seats in the auditorium, Pt Suhas Vyas, who took the stage for the second presentation, was also struck by the thin crowd as he asked the few sitting on the back rows to come forward. Underlining the fact that he had to begin his performance at 7.15pm, the vocalist said, “It is 8pm now, but I will stick to Purva Kalyan as decided before as this raga is sung towards late evening.” He began with a bandish ‘Hovan laagi sanjh’ and followed it with another in drut lay, ‘Dhan dhan bhaag aaj mere jago’, a 15-minute rendition of raga Gaud Malhar. ‘Balma bahar aayi’ was a tribute to the rainy season. Vyas finished with a composition of Vasantrao Deshpande, ‘Tejonidhi loh gol’ from Katyar Kaljaat Ghusli. “This is the first time I am performing at this festival. Though I have never sung a natya geet on stage, I am making an exception here as a tribute to the great maestro,” he said.
 
 The day concluded with a   recital by V Anuradha Singh from Bhopal. A disciple of Raigarh gharana, she began with Saraswati vandana set to raga Ahir Bhairav in Mishr taal and exhibited her variety and speed with chalan or footwork and followed it with a vilambit and drut performance with 21, 27, and 45 spins.
 
 Painting an artistic impression of rainy season with a tarana in Miya Malhar, ‘Barsan laagi badariya sawan ki’, Anuradha followed this with footwork in five laya or speed in raga Shivranjani along with a jugalbandi with violin. Singh is the only dancer in the country who excels in ghungroo vandan. Equally strong with her abhinay, she presented a composition based on a thumri in raga Kalawati, ‘Mohe chhedo’. The accomplished dancer finished with a 27 spin presentation set to a tarana in raga Hansadhwani with a jugalbandi on tabla.
 
 The final day presentation on August 1 will have a solo pakhwaj recital by Krushna Salunke and Marathi musical drama ‘He Bandh Reshmanche’, to be staged by Bharat Natya Sanshodhan Mandir, Pune.
 
 
