PANAJI: Goa tourism’s stakeholders are viewing the Supreme Court’s (SC) verdict to ban liquor stores and bars within a 500m radius of national and   as a move that can spell doom for the industry. 

 With hotels being constructed within the ambit of the SC’s verdict, structures that fall within the stipulated radius will not be able to serve alcohol to their customers. Those who are away from the highways are also expecting a dip in their business as they affirmed that alcohol serves as a major attraction, primarily for domestic tourists, to visit Goa. 
 
 “There will not be a direct impact on our business as our hotel is not within 500m of a highway. Yet, there will be a secondary impact on Goa’s image as a tourist destination, as tourists, especially the domestic ones, associate Goa as a place to have a good time, which extends to  , as well. If one-third of the liquor shops are going to shut down, there will certainly be an impact on the state’s tourism industry,” said Siddharth Savkur, general manager of Alila Diwa Goa.
 
 Travel and Tourism Association of Goa (TTAG) has termed the Supreme Court’s decision as “harsh” and has requested for a special meeting of the legislative assembly so that a resolution can be passed to challenge the order. 
 
 “The Supreme Court’s decision is harsh and is going to affect many hotels and bars in the state. Many standalone restaurants and famous hotels will be affected by this decision. Tourists are going to suffer from this verdict as restaurants and bars are easy to spot on the main roads and major towns of the state. Vasco, especially, is going to suffer as it may turn totally dry. It may also cause   in the internal areas of the towns as there may not be adequate parking space. We were in talks with hotel owners as well as the government, but, now, it seems too late,” president of TTAG Savio Messias said, adding that it is unlikely that the   will address a review petition. 
 
 “The only solution I see is that the legislative assembly should meet and pass a resolution against this verdict. This is judicial overreach and the state government should fight it,” he said.
 
 Shack operators are also expecting setbacks in their business and will be making a representation to the government to voice their concerns. 
 
 “It will impact business. I am still waiting for the order, and on the basis of it, we will be making a representation to the government,” president of the shack operators association, Cruz Cardozo, said.
 
