The acclaimed and award-winning   Baskets starring   is all set to wrap up with its second season and will air the finale episode exclusively on India’s leading English entertainment channel- Star World Premiere HD, this Friday, March 24th at 10 PM.
 Zach, known for his perfect comic timing and surreal humor, shot to fame with The Hangover movie series and has been creating ripples in the Hollywood industry ever since. An actor, writer as well as a producer, Zach also hosts the Emmy Award-winning talk show Between Two Ferns with Zach Galifianakis on the Funny or Die website.
  
  
 
  
 
  
  The series follows the life of Chip Baskets, who desperately struggles to fulfil his dream and become a professionally trained French Clown, but faces many difficulties. This one-of-a-kind show takes into perspective the chronicles that a clown has to face to make it big in the industry.
  
  In the second season, the Baskets family is at its most fragile. Chip (Zach Galifianakis) jumps on a train to get the hell out of Bakersfield, but a gang of gutter punks, the police, and a sudden death drag him right back into the drama he tried to escape. Dale’s (Zach Galifianakis) marriage crumbles as his unrequited love affair with Martha ( ) deepens, and Christine ( ), who dedicated her life to her sons with little affection in return, takes her own happiness into consideration for once —and finds romance on the way.
  
  Along with Zach Galifianakis in the lead role as twins Chip and Dale Baskets, the cast also features biggies from the comedy world like Emmy and Critics’ Choice award winning actor-comedian Louie Anderson as Christine Baskets and popular stand-up comedian Martha Kelly as Martha.
  
  Will Chip be a successful, professional clown? What ups and downs is he left to deal with now? And what about Dale’s blossoming relationship with Martha?
  
  Ending the season with a gripping finale episode, the series is already geared up for the third season and will return in 2018.
  
  Finale Episode of Baskets Season 2 will air on Star World Premiere HD on Friday 10:00 PM.
