NAGPUR: The state government has started taking steps to develop Rashtrasant Tukadoji Regional   (RST) into a state-of-the-art   Cancer Centre (TCCC). 

 The state public health department on Monday issued a notification releasing Rs1.80 crore as the first instalment for converting RST, situated in South Nagpur, into TCCC.
 
 The notification says, “Central government gave approval to develop TCCC at the hospital on January 13. The centre will be developed under the Central government’s National Programme for Prevention and Control of Cancer, Diabetes, Cardiovascular Diseases and Stroke (NPCDCS).”
 
 RST was among 27 regional   centres developed and operated in the country under Central government’s National Cancer Control Programme (NCCP). The government discontinued   and launched NPCDCS. It then decided to establish State Cancer Institutes (SCI) and Tertiary Care Cancer Centres (TCCC) in different parts of the nation under NPCDCS.
 
 Under the scheme, the financial assistance will be utilized by the institutions for procurement of radio-therapy equipment, diagnostic equipment, surgical equipment, enhancement of indoor patient facility for cancer and such other purpose relevant for diagnosis, treatment and care of cancer patients.
 
 The states were asked to send proposals. The state proposed to develop Government Medical College, Aurangabad, as SCI and RST as TCCC. The Centre approved TCCC for RST and will be one among 13 in the country. Centre also released Rs15.31 crore for the TCCC here in March. 
 
 The funds for TCCC have to be utilized for benefit of Schedule Caste and Nau Buddha communities. The patients of these communities are likely to get free diagnosis and treatment.
 
 In the notification, the state said funds will be released under Schedule Caste Sub Plan (SCSP) category. “Therefore, the RST should spent these funds only for the benefit of Schedule Caste and Nau Buddha communities,” it said.
 
 The state is likely to release remaining funds for TCCC later.
 
 RST joint director Dr BK Sharma said, “The centre is going to be a boon for Central India. It was a long pending requirement. The tertiary care will aim at providing speciality treatment to cancer of any kind. With such a high rate of cancer patients, we will be able to give advanced treatment in oral cancer so that the patients don’t have to leave the city.”
 
 Sharma further said, “Currently, the region does provide primary as well as secondary care to cancer patients. The next stage of tertiary care was missing. Our hospital has sufficient staff, and all the specialists to treat any type of cancer. The grant will be utilized to upgrade equipment. We need more machines. For instance, we have one linear accelerator; ideally there should be two. It all depends on how soon the funds are transferred to us by the district health centre.”
 
 Rs31.98 lakh for CCTVs at mental hospital
 
 The Regional Mental Hospital at Mankapur is always invites controversy due to deaths of inmates. Taking cognisance of the issue, state government has chalked out measures to improve services at the hospital.
 
 On Monday, state public health department issued a notification giving administrative approval to Rs31.98 lakh for purchase and installation of CCTVs at the hospital. 
 
 The approval has been given as per recommendation made by the state-level committee that wac constituted to look into problems related to regional mental hospitals.
 
 
