Psst, watch out! There are fairies in   and not just the ones that are part of dreams. These are real men and women, who you may brush past on your way to work in the mornings, or if you are lucky enough, you may just spot one while going home in the amber twilight. They may not wave a wand, but they still have some magic to offer — in the shape of a book that’s likely to pop up right next to you in a rickshaw, at a bus stop, in a nook by a leafy road or even on your seat in the local train! Mumbai’s very own neighbourhood   are leaving paperbacks at public spaces in the city for people to read. Why? To enlighten, educate and make the world a better place to live in. 

 
 
  
  
 The book fairy movement came to light on International Women’s Day, when ' ' actress and feminist   began leaving books on women empowerment at public spaces — in the subway in New York, on the Tube at London and at iconic locations in Paris. Since then, it has generated an army of 5,000 book fairies across the world — who leave paperbacks, hardcovers, adult colouring books, children’s tomes and more on park benches, at bus stops, in libraries and on public transport. Mumbai is not far behind. Luxury professional Mahek Sareen decided to act on her desire to be a book fairy on her return to Mumbai after her studies in France. “I’m inspired by Emma Watson and when she started the concept, I thought it was fantastic! It’s already caught on in Paris and it was so nice to see it happening in Mumbai as we have voracious readers back home,” she says. 
 
 
  
  
 Today, the Mumbai book fairies are a steadily growing community, spearheaded by book fairy  . She and her little coterie have left books on travel, empowerment, love and romance, self-help, poetry and fiction at places like the David Sassoon Library, Mani Bhavan, little corner coffee shops, behind pillars and more. Much like a public library system, the finder is supposed to pick up the book, read it and share it again with someone else and keep the chain going. Says Kadambari, “I have even left a book on a seat during a flight and at Mahabaleshwar, too. The whole idea is to encourage reading.” So far the books placed have been in English. “Mumbai, being a cosmopolitan city, we see a huge potential for books in Marathi, Hindi and Gujarati. We also have had had a demand for books in Bengali,” she adds.
 
 
  
  
 Each book carries a sticker instruction to take a picture with the book, hashtag it #IBelieveInBookFairies and post it on  . Mahek Sareen, resident of Kandivali, left a   book in Mount Mary Church, Bandra. “It was picked up by two girls, who took a photo with it and shared it with the hashtag. It feels good to know how far the book has travelled,” she smiles.” Malad-based marketing professional Jaita Guha left a book on geishas in a rickshaw near her home. “I left the book as I alighted from the rickshaw. Later I was elated to see a post with the book. Turned out that the person found the book a day after her birthday, so it made for a nice gift,” she informs, adding that she also left a book at   on ‘Book Fairy Biography Day’ recently. “I left a biography on a yogi at a sugarcane stall at the beach as it was raining.” Did she see who took it? “No, I never wait to see who’s picking the books as I am a fairy and have to stay out of sight,” she smiles. 
 Bhavika Govil, a book fairy-in-waiting, is planning to place a few books around Bandra so you might get one if you are lucky! “I’m thinking of leaving the books behind a cushion in a café for people to find. I also want to leave a few detective books on a local train,” she grins. “The very idea of someone picking up the book, reading and appreciating it, feels great. It feels like a personal recommendation to a stranger,” she admits. 
 
 
 There are no rules to be a book fairy. Adds Kadambari, “Anyone can take on this role. The books can be from your personal collection, ones you’ve read and loved. We have got requests from people who want to give away books to us, too. I got 30-40 books from donors around Mumbai in this week alone, so the kindness bug is certainly biting them,” she says. What’s more, men have also signed up as fairies. “We have male book fairies too, which is so heartening,” 
 she adds.
 
 
 
 
 
 
