CHANDIGARH: Chandigarh has gone way beyond what its creator imagined it to be. To mark the first anniversary of the   being declared a  , TOI begins a series to help create a new vision for the city.

 Is it time for Chandigarh to break free of the restrictions and limitations that were im posed on it by its guiding light, the famous architect Le Corbusier? Should we, for instance, consider having high-rises in select parts of the city, away from Le Corbusier's much-loved Capitol Complex, or should we continue the Edict of Chandigarh which speaks about respecting the human scale?
 
 Would Le Corbusier have really objected had we made changes to the Edict?
 There are those who even wonder if Corbusier was the original author of the Edict, but that is another matter. The fact remains that Chandigarh's master plan still has a lot of controls that were conceived by the city's founders.
 
 These questions have often been asked when Chandigarhians sit and discuss the future of the city they love so much. And there are clearly two schools of thought ­ one that believes that if Chandigarh has to develop into a modern city with capabilities to handle a larger population; it has to let go of the past.
 
 The other school believes that if Chandigarh enjoys a better quality of life than many other cities in India, it is because of the restrictions put on haphazard, unplanned growth. “Do you want Chandigarh to become Zirakpur?“ Defenders of strict controls will ask you.
 
 Interestingly, the Edict faced its first ever judicial test on April 12 when the Delhi high court passed an order cancelling the environment clearances given to Tata's Camelot housing project. The project was to come up on the hills adjoining Chandigarh and could have towered over the Capitol Complex.
 
 In its 169-page verdict, the division bench of Chief Justice G Rohini and Justice Aalok Shahai Endlaw however rejected the con tention that the project ran counter to the Edict. The judges chose to focus on the possible ecological damage of the project. They said that the edict was intended to regulate development of Chandigarh and its periphery, “but not to create a complete embargo on development of the area to meet the growing needs of the citizens in the light of the changing social and economic scenario“.
 
 Chandigarh, being the country's first planned post-independence city, was designed for a population of five lakh. Today, its population has crossed 10 lakh and is growing -pushing at the idealistic vision of Corbusier.
 
 The city's population has grown 44% between 1951 and 2011, ac cording to Census data. In the last five decades, population den sity has increased nine-fold from 1,051 persons per sq km in 1961 to 9,252 persons per sq km in 2011. And by 2021 -that's in four years from now -the city is expect ed to be home to 14.5 lakh people.
 
 Does the city have the space,   to accommodate so many people and provide them a good quality life in the years to come? there are many who feel that the answer is a big `no'. The city will have to evolve and adapt to meet future requirements without losing its individuality . But the moment one talks about moving beyond Le Corbusier, it whips up strong emotions in the development vs heritage debate.
 
 “Chandigarh is not an architectural entity , it's a civilization,“ says Pramod Kumar, director, Institute of Development and Communication (IDC). “Chandigarh will have to transcend the brilliance of Le Corbusier,“ says Kumar.Over the years, in the name of preserving edict of the city , the administration has put a stran glehold on development and the needs of residents, he says.
 
 Diwan Manna, honorary president, Punjab Lalit Kala Akademi, says cities are growing entities. “For the sake of heritage, we should not compromise on the growth of the city. The administration should be thinking about expanding the city while retaining its character,“ he said. However, he adds that the growth should be planned by architects who understand the ethos and philosophy of Corbusier.'
 
  
 
