MANGALURU: Divided by boundaries, united by a poet. This sums the coming together of CMs of Kerala and Karnataka to dedicate   in memory of Rashtrakavi Manjeshwar Govinda Pai at Manjeshwar on Thursday. It is the result of the untiring efforts by M Veerappa Moily, chairman of Rashtrakavi Manjeshwara Govinda Pai Trust, to ensure that Kannada’s first Rashtrakavi is kept on the same pedestal as his counterpart Vallathol Naryana Menon in Kerala.

 Consisting of various intrinsic components, Gilivindu is the result of an 11-year effort and single minded pursuit undertaken by Veerappa Moily, MP, that a befitting tribute to Manjeshwar Govinda Pai is raised at his home town, some 30 km from here. With funding from oil marketing companies and governments of Karnataka and Kerala, the dedication of Gilivindu to the nation is also seen as a tribute by Moily to Pai, whom this writer-politician sees as his guru.
 
 With Siddaramaiah and Pinarayi Vijayan sharing the stage to dedicate the project to the nation, Moily said, “I am happy that collective efforts led by me have finally done justice to Manjeshwar Govinda Pai.” 
 
 Having taken up similar exercise for Da Ra Bendre, Kota Shivarama Karanth and Kuvempu in their respective hometowns in Karnataka, Moily said this is his way of ensuring that Kannada poets remain etched in the minds of all for perpetuity. Encompassing six main components, Gilivindu has Nalanda – restoration of poet’s residence and converting it into museum, Bhavanika – new 800-seater auditorium, three guest houses – Vaishaki, Saketha and Anand, Bodhiranga – an open air theatre, an annexure building with library, study room, archives to store old documents, dormitory for research students, kitchen with dining hall, and an architectural front compound wall. It also entails landscaping part of the 1.75-acre land.
 
 The renovated house now has ‘Parthi Subba Yaksha Vedike’ with green room, original kitchen of the poet, AV room, museum to keep personal effects of the poet with copies of books written and collected by him and books on him. It will also house the office room of the director, who will be chosen in next 10 days. This project costs an estimated Rs 88 lakh. Work on Bhavanika has been completed at a cost of Rs 2.9 crore. Two of the three guesthouses are ready and work on the third will be taken up with Rs 18 lakh given by Manjeshwar MLA Abdul Razak. 
 
 
