NEW DELHI: The   on Monday designated 12   as “senior advocates” less than a week after the Supreme Court referred to a larger bench a plea to examine the controversial system often accused of being opaque and flawed.

 Former additional solicitor general Indira Jaising and National Lawyers’ Campaign for Judicial Transparency (NLCJT), an NGO, have challenged the current process in apex court and sought a procedure that is “fair, transparent and inclusive”.
 
 On Monday, the HC Full Court designated 12 lawyers to the   advocate category, including former Union minister Kapil Sibal’s   Akhil. Sibal’s other son Amit had been designated senior in 2011 by the HC and the family now has the distinction of having three senior advocates.
 
 Sources told TOI that out of 17 applicants who had sought the coveted “senior” tag, HC rejected five names who couldn’t make the cut in the voting system used to designate seniority to a lawyer.
 
 This is the first major designation of seniors in the recent past ever since Jaising had filed the petition in July, 2015 questioning the last round of such designations conferred by the SC on some advocates. For nearly two years since the SC entertained her petition, the apex court had not designated any lawyer as senior advocate.
 
 While some high courts stopped designating lawyers as senior advocates awaiting guidelines from the SC on the petitions, others have decided to continue the practice since there is no stay by the SC. The Bar Association of India had also pleaded with court that till new norms are laid down, the old system should be allowed to ensure the deserving are not kept waiting.
 
 Apart from Jaising, NLCJT has also assailed the current practice terming it unconstitutional as it creates two class of advocates without there being any rationale behind it. It has also blamed the process for creating “an exclusive elitist club”. The plea which was filed in Delhi HC was later tagged by SC with Jaising’s plea.
 
 The apex court found that the petitions raised an issue of seminal importance and pointed out that any decision would have ramifications for advocates across the country, hence referring it to a three-judge bench.
 
 On July 24, 2015, the SC had agreed to judicially examine fairness of its secret administrative procedure to designate ‘senior advocates’ after many reputed senior advocates backed Jaising, the first woman to hold the designation.
 
 In the process, the court had issued notice to itself, advocates’ regulatory body Bar Council of India (BCI), two lawyers’ associations in Supreme Court and attorney general seeking their response to Jaising’s petition that maintains the present process is opaque, arbitrary and fraught with nepotism.
 
 
