BHOPAL: Opposition Congress staged a walkout in the state assembly on Friday after Madhya Pradesh finance minister   declined to reduce   on petrol and diesel in the state.

 Congress MLA from Raghogarh seat, Jaivardhan Singh, raised the issue during the Question Hour. He asked the finance minister, “Compared to other states in the country, does Madhya Pradesh levy the highest taxes on petrol, diesel and cooking gas?” He also asked for identification of the companies who sell petroleum products in the state. “At what cost is the government acquiring petrol from these companies?” he asked.
 
 In reply, the government refused to share much details. The   said that details of VAT on fuel in other states cannot be gathered by the state government. He argued that details of acquisition of petrol and diesel cannot be collected by the department. Jaivardhan contended that petrol in Gujarat is Rs 6 cheaper than Madhya Pradesh, Rs 5 cheaper in Rajasthan and Rs 6 cheaper in Chhattisgarh. He said the consumers in the bordering districts travel to the neighbouring states to fill petrol, causing revenue loss to the state. “Crude oil comes at Rs 20–Rs 25 per litre and refined petrol at Rs 30. While crude oil prices have reduced from $100 per barrel to $50 per barrel, the prices of fuel in the state are going up,” he said. “Will you reduce the price by a few rupees to extend some relief to the people,” he asked.
 
 Malaiya replied, “This is a recommendation and not a question. Prices also go up because of the rate of excise duty during import and the state government has no intention to reduce the price of fuel.” This led to an uproar in the House. Senior Congress MLA from Pawai seat, Mukesh Nayak said, “We want to know why petrol prices are the highest in the state?” Former Congress minister Dr Govind Singh said, “Farmers are the worst-affected due to high  .” Deputy leader of Opposition Bala Bachchan asked the finance minister, “We have just one question. Will you reduce the VAT on fuel?” Malaiya gave a terse reply, “No”. Bachchan hit back, saying, “We are not satisfied with your answer. We are walking out on the issue.”
 
 
