KOLKATA: Three years after five persons accused in the   of green activist   were acquitted, the   on Monday directed a Howrah trial court to start proceedings afresh in the case. The lower court in December 2014 acquitted the five accused because of lack of evidence.

 The division bench of Justice Debashis Kar Gupta and Justice Md Mumtaz Khan was hearing a petition moved by Dutta’s wife Pratima, challenging the trial court order. Observing the lower court judgment was full of flaws, the bench directed it to start fresh proceedings where the depositions by all witnesses and every minute detail pertaining to the investigation should be taken into consideration. “Tapan Dutta’s wife   was the 24th witness of the case but her deposition wasn’t recorded. The lower court will have to record the statement of witness Pratima Dutta as it is very important for the case,” the division bench observed.
 
 The lower court’s 2014 order was also challenged by the CID in the high court. 
 
 On Monday, the high court directed that the lower court gives importance to information regarding the filling of a wetland that apparently led to the murder. The court will also take into consideration the role played by a   minister whose name cropped up during investigation. In its initial chargesheet, submitted on August 30, 2011, the CID implicated 16 people including minister Arup Ray but in its second chargesheet, submitted on September 30, 2011, the agency dropped several names including that of Ray’s. Finally, seven persons were charged for murder, abetment, criminal conspiracy and illegally carrying firearms.
 
 Pratima has been alleging her husband was murdered in complicity with a section of Trinamool leaders because he was spearheading a movement against their efforts to fill up the 750-acre wetland known as Jaipur Bill. Dutta — vice-president of Trinamool’s Bally-Jagachha block unit — was shot dead near Bally station on May 6, a week before the 2011 assembly election results were declared.
 
 Speaking to TOI on Monday, Pratima said: “My faith was somewhat shattered by the Howrah district court order that had set all the murderers of my husband free. I also lost faith in the CID probe. This is why we moved a writ petition in the HC to transfer the probe to an independent agency like the CBI. I want no culprit go scot-free after committing such a heinous crime. I want to see the end of it. I am happy the HC restored my absolute faith in the judiciary.”
 
 Though the CID arrested Trinamool leaders Sasthi Gayen, Asit Gayen, Bapi Das, Baban and Ramesh Mahato, all were released in August 2014 after the lower court verdict. “This is great victory for us. Though the court initially rejected our plea for an investigation by an independent agency, we will again appeal to the court for an impartial probe by an agency like the CBI,” Pratima’s lawyer Sabyasachi Chattopadhyay said.
 
 
