Nagpur: The   (C3 unit), attached to crime branch, have recovered around Rs9.50 lakhs for 21 victims from various fraudsters within a span of 47 days from the time of it’s formation in May this year. The amount is set to cross more than Rs10 lakhs within next few days. 

 If C3 unit has come as a saviour for several netizens falling prey to the online fraudsters, city polices’ another unit Special investigation team (SIT), which is also attached to crime branch, too has extended support to around 440 plot owners who have started construction on their lands, worth few crores of rupees, which were earlier grabbed by land mafia. SIT, which has already invoked MCOCA against two gangs for land grabbing, was formed in April this year. 
 
 Yet another crime branch unit, Property cell, also formed this year, too had ensured victims get back their lands worth crores of rupees after recovering their lands from the alleged grabbers. The three units of C3, SIT and Property cell, were created under the supervision of City police chief K Venkatesh. 
 
 C3 unit, which is a sophisticated version of the earlier cyber cell, had ensured that amounts ranging from more than Rs6 lakh to Rs6 were recovered for the victims who had approached the cops with their grievances. C3 has so far managed to extend it’s services to people from various walks of life comprising businessmen to teachers to peons. 
 
 Sources from C3 claimed that a businessman was almost duped by a fraudster by siphoning off his Rs6 lakh through Bombay Stock Exchange. The C3 cops, coordinating with the BSE, ensured that the amount was reversed to the account of the businessman. 
 
 The C3 unit had also ensured that a victim got back his due Rs6 from a private taxi service after the amount was unduly charged from him. Though the amount was higher when the complainant had claimed to have been duped, he could get back only a small amount for approaching the cops after considerable delay.
 
 Apart from various private firms, several nationalized banks too had to reverse payments to many victims of their technical errors who had been running from pillar to post to get their amounts back before approaching C3. 
 
 API Vishal Mane of C3, working under DCP, crime, Shweta Khedkar, said that a schoolteacher was duped of around Rs24,000 when he had approached the C3 falling prey to lucrative traps of an online fraudsters. “C3 had to coordinate with multiple agencies in Mumbai and other places to ensure the teacher get his amount back,” he said. 
 
 Property cell unit of crime branch, under PI Vazeer Shaikh, too had been successful in helping a victim to get back his land worth Rs36 crores from his former partners who had duped him. The cell had earlier ensured a victim and two others get their lands worth Rs16 crores back from the land grabbers within a short period of the complainant’s approaching the cell. 
 
 
