NEW DELHI: Setting aside  , the   asked the board on Thursday to re-evaluate the answer sheets of all   who have applied for a fresh scrutiny of their papers. 

 The court gave the interim order on a plea filed by four students against CBSE's June 28 notice that had limited re-evaluation to 12 subjects and up to 10 questions per subject.
 
 "The relief is not confined to the petitioners and shall apply to all similarly situated students who seek re-evaluation of their answer sheets," a bench of acting Chief Justice Gita Mittal and Justice C Hari Shankar said.
 
 In its interim order, the HC made it clear that CBSE would have to drop its preconditions for re-evaluating answer sheets of all those who had applied for it.
 
 "CBSE shall conduct the re-evaluation of the answer sheets of the petitioners as have been applied for by them without the prohibition contained in condition numbers (i), (iii) and (vii) of the notice dated June 28, 2017. CBSE shall accept all applications for re-evaluation in all subjects," the bench said.
 
 The board's notice had also said that a revised marksheet would be issued only if the marks increased by five or were reduced by one. The court struck down this condition, along with the other two restrictions imposed on number of subjects and questions.
 
 CBSE's notice had said reevaluation would be allowed only in 12 subjects -English (core & elective, both CBSE & NCERT), Hindi (core & elective), mathematics, physics, chemistry, biology, business studies, economics and accountancy .
 
 The petitioners were seeking re-evaluation in subjects not mentioned in the June 28 notice.
 
 The CBSE had come up with fresh rules after giving an undertaking, through a statement before the high court during the hearing of a batch of pleas, that the aggrieved students could approach the board under its verification scheme.
 
 CBSE's submission had prompted the HC to dispose of the petitions.
 
 However, a group of four students approached the court after CBSE issued the June 28 notice in violation of its statement in court.Through senior advocate Sanjay Poddar, they alleged that CBSE had misled the court into disposing of the writ petitions.
 
 Taking note of this, the bench observed that “prima facie“ the petitioners had made a case for grant of interim orders.
 
 “It cannot be denied that grave and irreparable loss and damage would ensue to the petitioners so far as their admissions to colleges and universities are concerned.Balance of convenience is also in favour of the petitioners,“ it said.
 
 The court also issued notices to the Centre, CBSE and the Delhi University on the plea and sought their replies within 10 days. The matter has now been fixed for further hearing on July 26.
 
