NEW DELHI: A Delhi court on Saturday directed Ansal brothers to inform the court, a week in advance and handover full details of their itinerary before they make any trips abroad. The order was passed on a plea made in connection with an alleged evidence tampering case in which the state has sought restraining businessmen   and   from “fleeing the country”.

 The state had moved the plea before chief metropolitan magistrate   on the basis of a magazine report. The court, however, on Saturday remarked that the state could not rely on “magazine reports” and “journalistic articles” as those were not “gospel truths”.
 
 Earlier, senior public prosecutor A T Ansari had sought the CMM court to pass directions for restraining the Ansal brothers from leaving the county. Defense counsel  , however, said that her clients were ready to give an undertaking about the details of their itinerary before leaving the country.
 
 Relying on the December 2016 cover story of Tehelka, Ansari submitted that Sushil was “continuously making preparations” and was “on the verge” of fleeing the country. “There is a substantial change in the circumstances creating reasonable grounds for believing that accused Gopal Ansal and Sushil Ansal are most likely to flee from the country to avoid the trial of the present case,” the prosecutor argued.
 
 Ansari also argued that though the genuineness of the information in the cover story cannot be ascertained at this juncture without a detailed investigation, it certainly gave rise to “serious apprehension” that the Ansals “may flee from the country during the pendency of the present trial.”
 
 The trial court in 2014 framed charges against the seven accused, including the Ansal brothers, under Sections 109 (abetment of offence), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence), 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servant) and 120 B (criminal conspiracy) of IPC.
 
 On June 13, 1997, a fire in Uphaar cinema engulfed the theatre resulting in the death of 59 persons.
 
