Kolkata: The Union ministry of culture is likely to promulgate an ordinance to remove hurdles in the way of the ambitious East-West   project.

 The ordinance will change the rules that prohibit construction of infrastructure projects in the vicinity of protected monuments. “Instead of waiting for the AMASR (Amendment) Bill, 2017, to be tabled in the monsoon session of Parliament in July, it makes sense to have an ordinance passed to get the project going. 
 
 The proposed ordinance will replace the Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains (AMASR) Amendment Act, 2010. A draft on these lines, prepared by the culture ministry, has been sent to the law ministry for vetting.
 
 The development brought relief for the Kolkata Metro Rail Corporation (KMRC), the implementing agency of the Rs 8,900-crore East-West Metro project, which stared at an uncertain future after it failed to get the go-ahead from the Archeological Survey of India (ASI). With the tunnel-boring machine, which can’t be stopped from tunneling, reaching close to the Kolkata bank of the Hooghly, the fate of the entire project became uncertain.
 
 It was found that the AMASR Act must be amended to allow the tunnel pass within 100m of heritage buildings in the BBD Bag area — Beth El synagogue, Maghen David synagogue and the Currency Building. The imbroglio got a breather on Wednesday as the Centre proposed a bill to amend the heritage protection act.
 
 Sources said the proposed ordinance will redefine “public work” into Section II of the act and make provisions for projects like the East-West Metro. The decision on the ordinance comes after much persuasion from the ministry of railways. “The ministry of culture has scrutinized the existing act to strike an appropriate balance between importance of heritage sites and public welfare,” said a source.
 
 While the culture ministry works on the ordinance, Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) has issued a notification that allows KMRC to survey the buildings and find out what kind of strengthening is needed, and, if at all the occupants need to be evacuated, and if so, how many of them need to move out.
 
 The structurally weak buildings on either side of Brabourne Road may not have to be evacuated and if some need to be moved out at all, it would be very less in number. Since neither KMRC nor KMC knows how to have the occupants shifted out of the nine “very weak” buildings and how to strengthen the rest — 16 insecure structures — without evacuation, a committee will be formed to formulate the course of action. The committee will comprise representatives from the state transport department, KMC, KMRC and Afcons, the agency that’s constructing the tunnels.
 
 “Only a few occupants may have to be shifted out. That, too, only for about 10 days.We willll repair the buildings by then,” a KMRC official said.
 
 Raj Kishor Parida, owner of Shankar Trading Corp, was aghast. “We deal with heavy equipment. How can we shift out of the shop even for one day, and that too at such a short notice?” he fumed. Kaushik Barman of Barman Medica Stores at 42 Strand Road echoed, “How am I supposed to earn my living for these 10-15 days?”
 
 
