Gurgaon: The MCG has decided to tighten the noose around   and recover dues by attaching their properties and imposing heavy penalties on them. According to the civic body’s records, there are around 1,100 defaulters in domestic, commercial, industrial and institutional categories.

 In Zone 1, the total number of defaulters from all categories is 450 and they owe around Rs 90 crore to MCG. Of these, 250 defaulters from the commercial category owe Rs 52.29 crore, 100 from the institutional category are yet to pay Rs 19.4 crore and 100 from the industrial category owe Rs 18.4 crore to the civic body.
 
 A property tax department official told TOI that the MCG had started sending notices to the identified defaulters in the city, asking them to pay tax on time, failing which their properties would be attached and a penalty would be imposed on them. “Once the property is attached, the sale and purchase of the property is restricted till the property tax dues are paid by the owner,” he said. Zone 2 has 450 defaulters, who owe Rs 308 crore to the MCG as property tax. In Zone 3, the number of defaulters from all categories is 230, and they owe 173 crore to MCG. There are very few defaulters in the domestic category. Those defaulting over Rs 1 lakh as property tax would face action. 
 
 A meeting was held at the MCG office under the chairmanship of new commissioner V Umashankar to address the issues related to property tax. The commissioner ordered the property tax department officials to prepare a list of all defaulters and serve property attachment notices to them. There are defaulters who have never paid property tax or have been failing to pay tax for past seven-eight years. The property of such defaulters will remain attached till the dues are not cleared. Officials said they would seal buildings of those who failed to submit the tax within the stipulated time after receiving multiple notices. “Our field employees are keeping a close tab on the property tax received and defaulters who have not responded to notices,” said another MCG official. 
 
 
