THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The laxity of schools in initiating proper   has come down heavily on young children who are now most susceptible to the community outbreak of dengue. 

 According to doctors the number of children affected with dengue is on the rise day-by-day such that it has surpassed the capacity of children’s wards in the hospitals.
 
 “Even during the major   in 2013, we did not have so many children being affected by the disease. The situation is different now. We are getting about 200 children a day with fever in the OPs of which 60% are detected with dengue. The capacity of the children’s ward is 25 and we have accommodated 42 children here with dengue,” said one of the doctors at the   here. Due to the heavy rush children are being admitted in the general and adult wards, the doctor added.
 
 Doctors suspect that dengue outbreak is now posing a serious threat for children as they are more exposed to dengue-causing mosquitoes at schools and tuition centres. Even though the health department had issued strict orders to maintain hygienic premises and follow dry day observance on a weekly basis, laxity from school authorities have now made schools into major breeding spaces of mosquitoes. “Even after one round of inspection and fogging, some schools still do not follow any vector control measures. The government school in   was found to have several positive containers in our first inspection and we had given them warning. When we went there again last week, the school authorities have not yet done anything to curb mosquito breeding and they are simply waiting for us to visit and do the fogging,” said a district health department official.
 
 It has been decided that any school which do not follow dry day observance and vector control measures will be dealt legally. “As per section 89 of The Travancore-Cochin Public Health Act 1955 and relevant sections in the IPC, the school authorities can even get imprisonment if they do not follow the instructions,” said Dr Jose G D’Cruz, district medical officer. tnn
 
 
