GANDHINAGAR: The   has decided revise the 2015 policy for Micro, Small and   (MSME) and give the sector more incentives. The   is politically sensitive as it generates the maximum employment in the state. 

 The state government is likely to announce the revised policy in the upcoming budget session starting from February 20. 
 
 At the Vibrant   Summit held in January this year, the maximum number of memorandums of understanding (MOUs) — 18,533 out of a total 25,578 — were signed for this sector. In fact, the number of industries set up after signing of MOUs at every previous summit was the highest from the   sector.
 
 An official said that at the MSME seminar held during the recent Vibrant Gujarat Summit, may suggestions were received regarding the need to develop the MSME sector in the state.
 
 Sources said that in the new policy, the state government plans to increase the slab of subsidy from Rs 50,000 to Rs 1 lakh or more. 
 
 “Interest subsidy rates will be also be hiked in the new policy which will be of major financial benefit to the MSMEs,” a source said. “One of the key problems faced by new industries in the MSME sector is costly land and industrial sheds in parks, besides very high rent. Hence, the state government has decided to construct special vertical sheds in various GIDC estates and directly give them on rent at very subsidised rates.”
 
 Sources further said that the government also has plans to give infrastructure assistance like roads, and water and power supply at nominal cost. 
 
 “Power connection charges and power charges are both considered as the key capital and recurring cost,” a source said. “Hence, the government plans to give power connections at no cost or nominal cost. The new policy’s major thrust will be on MSMEs established by women, Scheduled Caste (SC) and Scheduled Tribe (ST) entrepreneurs.”
 
 The government has also agreed to set up a new MSME authority under the new policy. “It will work full time only for MSME welfare and development. All district industries centre (DIC) will have new dedicated units for MSMEs,” the source said.
 
