Nagpur: The Mankapur police have arrested three youngsters, including two students, for allegedly breaking into nine houses and stealing four cars for fast money.

 The accused, Amar Sangole (20), Akash Akotkar and Sunil Solanki (both 19), stole the cars and used them while going on a “mission” to rob houses. Recently, they decamped with more than 28 tolas of gold and cash from a residence at Baba Faridnagar, where one of them stayed.
 
 Sangole and Akotkar, both of whom are studying, had been misguiding their families stating that they were required to stay away in the night to work for a private catering service. Akotkar was arrested earlier for stealing automobiles within the limits of the Nandanvan police station.
 
 His latest arrest is significant for the city police as he had allegedly committed a major burglary at the residence of Wadekars at Gawande Layout in Baba Faridnagar, which came to the fore on July 2. Besides gold, the trio also decamped with around Rs13,000 cash when the Wadekars had gone to their kin’s place.
 
 On July 4, TOI carried a report about the incident where the burglars feasted at the Wadekar’s place, besides consuming imported liquor.
 
 The trio was lucky not to have caught red-handed while striking at the Wadekars’ house as one of their relatives landed up at their doorsteps, but decided to return as no one responded despite repeated knocks.
 
 Zonal DCP Rakesh Ola said the accused were rounded up during anti-crime patrolling in Mankapur following a spate of burglaries and vehicle thefts. “Booty worth more than Rs6.55 lakh, including four cars, have been recovered from the trio so far. They were first-timers as burglaries with no such records have been traced against them,” he said. 
 
 Senior PI PN Bhatkar of the Mankapur police station said the trio stealing cars was part of their modus operandi. “Parking cars in front of the houses the trio targeted had been their ploy to ensure that the neighbours were under the impression that some guests may have come visiting. The trio also stole key bunches apart from valuables to use them to open locks,” he said.
 
 “They also possessed master keys to open cars. After burglaries, the trio would abandon the cars. They also used cars to move around as the police generally do not stop four-wheelers for checking,” said Bhatkar.
 
 He added said that the entire booty stolen from the residence of the Wadekars was recovered intact, as the burglars were unable to dispose it.
 
 
