CHENNAI: In a bid to provide a platform for budding local football talent,   (CCFC), along with   and  , are all set to conduct a   in September. The tournament is aimed at giving children, particularly from the slum areas of Chennai, exposure to the demands of professional football. With CCFC all set to play in various I-League age-group competitions, the talented footballers might be selected to represent the club.

 CCFC co-owner Rohit Ramesh also informed that the "highly-talented children" might also be selected for the club's residential academy, which they plan to build by 2020 along with their stadium. "In recent times, we have seen players like Dhanpal Ganesh and Nandhakumar playing for India. They come from humble backgrounds. So our management did a study and saw that there are many skilful footballers below the poverty line. But they don't have the intention to pursue the sport because of their financial difficulties. So we are targeting the working-class communities and giving them an opportunity to make football a way of life. With the league being open for kids from all backgrounds, the players from the economically backward areas will also get a good exposure," Rohit said.
 
 The CCFC owner added that they have selected 16 communities which will play in the two-day league, starting from September 15. "We have selected 16 communities, which give coaching to youngsters free of cost, and providing them with all the financial and technical help. Our management along with the coaches of these communities will monitor the progress of the kids who impress. Thereafter we will select the kids to play for us in various age-group competitions of AIFF. So the grooming process will start from here and I am sure that in four years' time, they will go on to represent CCFC and India," Rohit asserted.
 
 The 16 communities identified are Tambaram Friends, Puzhal FA, Tiger Garden FA (Puliyanthope), RA Grassroots SA (Melmanagar),   (Broadway),   (Mandaiveli), Suresh Memorial FC (Pattinampakkam),   (Puliyanthope),   (Avadi),   (Poonamalee), Seeds (Vyasarpadi),   (Vyasarpadi BV Colony), Sagas FC (Pallavaram), Dr Ambedkar SC (Manali), Grace SC (Sennerkuppam), Shankar Ramesh Memorial FA (Thirur). CCFC have already provided a sum of Rs 25,000 to each of the clubs so that they can buy the kits and prepare for the tournament. Rohit informed that the format of the league will be decided in a few days. 
 
