There seems to be no end to the woes of Central Board of Secondary Educaiton, with   now junking its re-evaluation curbs. In the past two months,   has been in the news for all the wrong reasons. Considering its past reputation, trust and leadership, this sharp decline is all the more disappointing. Those who have worked with the system for decades are even more intrigued. What has gone wrong?
 It first began with CBSE’s firm no to moderation. CBSE failed to distinguish the spiking of marks with the grant of grace marks and statistical moderation in a proverbial failure to separate wheat from the chaff. No one supports reckless increase of marks but a compensation to offset the vagaries of the examination/evaluation system in the larger interest of the students shaping their future cannot be denied to them. 
 
 Mercifully, the courts were not impressed, at least for the current year. CBSE was given clear directions to make a course correction. The large number of discrepancies that have been unearthed during the re-verification of marks has sent shockwaves through the entire community of students, parents, and teachers.
 
  In the meantime, CBSE came up with another shocker by refusing to permit re-evaluation, but had to on the court’s orders. The results of re-evaluation are eye-opening and raise serious questions on the entire process and on CBSE’s efficiency. It is high time we visited the causes of rampant anomalies in the marks allocated and the marks deserved.
 
  Availability of committed, competent and child-sensitive examiners is a genuine concern. Examiners need to be imbued with deep moral values, compassion and accountability. It is strange that despite knowing the answer scripts will reach the students, examiners have not been deterred from carrying out irresponsible marking. The board’s anxiety about copies being checked at any cost within a period of 10 days has forced it to dispatch the manuscripts of English-medium students to the Hindi-medium teachers and vice-versa. In many cases, time constraints have compelled the authorities to deploy teachers not qualified otherwise to evaluate the copies.
 
  The board has complained time again that good teachers are not available for evaluation work. In the massive exercise last year, the board collected the entire data of all affiliated schools. This exercise was touted as a gamechanger in ensuring transparency and using this data as a storehouse of information to conduct examination and evaluation with 100% efficiency. This, unfortunately, has not happened.
 
  If CBSE really has to regain its glory and the trust of students and parents, it has to strengthen its internal decision-making mechanism and focus its energies on conducting examinations and evaluating efficiently. A robust grievance-redressal mechanism is key to building trust. Is it difficult to do?
 
 
 
