AHMEDABAD: It is not only the stationary cameras installed at crossroads that will identify traffic offenders but also traffic policemen’s cellphone cameras that will send images required for generating e-challan.

 The project, launched from this week by the city  , is primarily targeted at traffic offences on interior roads and also at illegal parking.
 
 Sudhir Desai, DCP (traffic), said that more than 1,500 phones of traffic policemen have been equipped with a special software for the purpose. “The trial runs have been successful and we have started generating   on the basis of the photographs clicked by police personnel and officers,” he said.
 
 Desai further said that that the software has a date and time stamp which will be applied to each image clicked. “It will also have geo-tagging of the location through GPS as evidence for the offender,” he said.
 
 Officials of the city’s traffic police said that currently an average of 2,500 e-challans are generated daily by 226 high-definition CCTV cameras installed at over 200 city crossroads. The plan to cover 130 more crossroads under City Surveillance and Intelligent Traffic Monitoring System (CSITMS) project and Smart City project, has already been approved. 
 
 Senior officials said that this will expand the reach of the digital challan system and make tracking of offenders more transparent and contact-less. The officials said that the goal is to generate 1 lakh e-challans daily.
 
 WHEN TRAFFIC COPS GET IT WRONG
 
 Vafiuddin Saiyed, a resident of   in Sarkhej, was surprised when he got an e-challan on Thursday for not wearing a helmet. A stickler for the helmet rule, he got another surprise when he came to know that the place of offence was Naroda Patia. “I work with a bank on Ashram Road and go from home to office and then back,” he said. “It must be years since I last visited Naroda. However, what was most surprising was that photograph accompanying the challan had no photograph of my bike (a Bullet) which is also mentioned as my vehicle at the time of the offence,” Saiyed said. The photograph shows a bike which, according to Saiyed, is not his bike and the rider is seen wearing a helmet. Saiyed said that he will not pay the Rs 100 fine till he gets an explanation from the traffic branch about the gaffe.
 
  “Camera-based traffic management is good but the officials should also apply common sense. Such mistakes raise question about the efficiency of the system,” Saiyed said.
 
 This is not the first such instance of mistakes by the traffic police. Sources said that on an average about 10 to 15 persons claim that they had been wrongly issued a challan. A woman on a scooter had recently got a challan for not wearing the seat belt, the sources said.Efficient
 
 DELIVERY SYSTEM NEEDED
 
 The city has 403 major traffic junctions out of which about half are covered by cameras. At the moment, only the   Crossroads is the only no-tolerance zone where the smallest of traffic offences — crossing the stop line or jumping the signal a few seconds before the green light — are also recorded and e-challans sent. Traffic branch officials want to increase the number of such junctions with a better surveillance system.
 
 But there are a number of roadblocks to this plan, the main one being the delivery system for e-challans. The new system more than doubles the number of functional cameras that can be used to detect and record traffic offences. Experts say it will also require a matching efficient delivery system to succeed.
 
 
