SANGRUR: Sangrur police on Thursday claimed to have busted a six-member gang of kidnappers, which had abducted a Dirba-based commission agent on July 17 and released him the same day after taking Rs 26 lakh as ransom from his family. 

 The speacial teams formed to catch the culprits have arrested four out of the six accused namely Kulwinder Singh alias  , who was the kingpin of the gang, Ravinder Singh, Happy Singh and Beant Singh. Two of their accomplices Ranjit Singh and Gurpiar Singh are yet to be arrested. 
 
 Kapil Dev was abudcted at around 6:30 am on July 17 from near his brick kiln, located in   village, when he was returning home. The accused intercepted his car and overpowered him. They then drove him to   village on Patiala-Patran road, where Kapil was kept in a secluded room on the outskirts of the village.
 
 While the commission agent had returned home the same day after his family paid the ransom, the matter was reported to the police on July 20 and the case was cracked on Wednesday evening. Police claimed to have recovered Rs 15 lakh out of the Rs 26 lakh along with a .32 bore revolver, an air pistol, three cartridges, a motorcycle and a   Dzire car from the accused.
 
 After Kapil was kidnapped, he was beaten and forced to call up his family members asking them to arrange Rs 1.25 crore ransom to secure his release. After several calls, the family convinced the kidnappers that they could only arrange for Rs 26 lakh. The kidnappers agreed to take the money and allowed Kapil to return home the same day.
 
 After receiving a complaint, Sangrur senior superintendent of polcie (SSP) M S Sidhu constituted two special teams which identified the accused and started tracking their movement. They finally zeroed in on them on Wednesday night at Kamalapur village near here.
 
 SSP Sidhu said they had stumbled upon various clues to trace the absconders and they would soon be arrested. He said that the accused were travelling in a car with fake number plate and there was a possibility that it could have been a stolen vehicle.
 
