THANE: An eight-month-old   boxer who could barely breathe as its nose was eaten up by maggots got a new lease of life after he was resuced and treated by a city-based NGO.

 On Republic Day, the NGO Pet Owners and Animal Lovers (PAL) received a call that a dog had suffered serious wounds on his face and is lying near  .
 
 “When the team rushed to the spot, they found that the dog was not in a good shape. He was lying in a gutter and her face was almost completely eaten by maggots. The dog was also underweight. We are not sure how she suffered such severe injuries,” said Aditi Nair, founder of PAL.
 
 The dog, who is being fondly called Arya, underwent treatment for almost three months. Many residents, too, poured in to offer their help with the treatment. Initially, Arya used to find it difficult to eat. So she was not given any hard food. We gave her recovery food and soft food particles. She was even given oxygen during the initial stages in order to stabilize her.
 
 “If she wasn’t rescued that day then there were chances that she could have lost an eye as the infection had reached till there. When she came she weighed around 9kg but now she is a health 15kg. The wounds on her face are also healing and the flesh on her face has come again due to medications. She faces breathing problem as one of her nasal tract has been damaged permanently. Since her face was   her left nasal tract is exposed. We are going to perform a surgery to ease her breathing soon,” said Dr. Hemant Thange, a city-based vet.
 
 As of now Arya’s condition is said to be stable and she has also started socializing with other dogs who are with the NGO. They have become her new family and soon the family is going to extend as she is going to be adopted.
 
 “As of now we don’t exert her much so that she is not out of breath. We are also happy that she is soon going to be adopted as a family is not only ready to support her in this condition but they have also opened the doors of their homes for her,” added Nair.
 
 
