AHMEDABAD: Ever since the surprise speech of Prime Minister   on November 8 last year, lives for many Indians have not remained the same. With his one announcement, the economy went for a tailspin as long queues outside the banks became a norm. Gradually, things returned to normalcy, but in the course of past three months, the citizens’ economic habits underwent a change. In this scenario, it would be interesting to know what the people of Gujarat think about it. 

 A study conducted by city-based academicians encompassing 424 respondents from Gujarat reveals that 42% of respondents support demonetization. A total of 58% of the respondents said they had to face hassles to manage petty expenses and painfully long queues at the ATMs.
 
  Two faculty members of   (AMSOM), Ahmedabad University—Ruchi Tewari and Ekta Sharma—took up a study to understand the public perception of demonetization three months down the line with the help of structured questionnaires. The findings will be presented at an international conference later this year.
 
 The researchers had taken up five groups—students, home-makers, salaried employees, businessman and senior citizens—from across the state by random selection. 
 
 “We sent them questionnaires asking which words would they associate with demonetization, why do you support or oppose demonetization, why others support or oppose demonetization and why political parties support or oppose demonetization,” said Tewari.
 
 Tewari said the research findings show how people made an overarching association between demonetization and ease of payment along with digital transactions—which is also the prime reason why about 42% people support demonetization. “Cashless transactions are gradually becoming a way of life for a large urban population encompassing all the groups mentioned under the study. A few other reasons are reduction in price of gold and real estate. Analysis of the others’ opinion show that it was perceived as a step towards nation-building and reduction of black money,” she explained.
 
 The key criticism, however, came for the implementation part. Majority of respondents (58%) said that they were hassled for managing petty expenses and painfully long queues at the ATMs and banks. A frustrated respondent went on to report, ‘It’s my money and I can’t use it—the most helpless state to be in.’
 
 Over 75% respondents expected ‘transparent transactions,’ ‘higher accountability’ and ‘reduction in black money’ through the push of digital payments by demonetization. 
 
 Researchers said that the views about demonetization as a means to curb corruption in the long run were equally divided. Interestingly, 60% of respondents suggested that the political parties or leaders who expressed support to demonetization either belonged to the ruling party or allied parties. Those supporting it wanted to project a clean image, whereas those opposing it did it because they could not use the black money,” said Sharma.
 
