GURGAON: In this city, it’s the women as much as the men who’re eager to put on their   and hit the road.

 Gurleen Arora, Sudesh ‘Sude’ Bhoria and Shivani Bhatnagar are among 14   who will be running a full marathon for the very first time, when they get on their marks for the Standard Chartered  , on Sunday. Altogether, 80   (including 15 women) are in Mumbai for the country’s most anticipated  .
 
 All three, incidentally, are  , but motherly duties don’t get in the way of their passion. Each finds the time, amid their busy lives, to train. Gurleen, for example, has been running for a year-and-a-half (she’s run five half marathons). She’s always had the craving, if not the time to satisfy it. But after seeing others pound dirt trails, day in and day out, she couldn’t resist the lure of freedom-on-two-feet.
 
 “The more I run, the more hunger I have for running more,” Gurleen, 36, told TOI. “I am a runner because I run, and not because I run fast, or because I run far.”
 
 Then there’s ‘Sude’, 36, who’s completed a couple of half marathons (including the Delhi Airtel). “When I ran for the first time, I did only one kilometre, and said I won’t run again. But the second time, Pankaj, my husband, urged me to run again — and I ran 5 kilometres!”
 
 And she’s also inspired her neighbours. “They ask, ‘How can you run, and run so much? And I tell them, ‘You also come!’ So now 10 to 15 ladies are running with me!”
 
 Meanwhile, Shivani Bhatnagar, 35, was an “off and on” runner when she took her first strides in 2015. “It was only after I joined Gurgaon Road Runners that I started my training properly.” Indeed, these women (and all the other Gurgaon 80) have gained confidence – and many kilometres in their legs – thanks to the training and support of GRR, the city collective that is active all year round in organising fitness events (including epic cycle trips).
 
 “The commendable thing is how they train – on Sundays, during the winters, they would spend almost half the day running,” Siddarth Choudhary, founder and chief mentor of the ‘runners’, tells TOI. And he can’t praise the husbands enough. “They’re at home taking care of the children.
 
 “How many men today support the passion of women, how many stay at home and allow their wives to pursue that passion?”
 
 Shivani never imagined she could run 21 kilometres continuously, and she credits Choudhary for giving her the self-belief to do so (her first half marathon was the Airtel Delhi, and she also ran the ‘half’ in last year’s Mumbai Marathon).
 
 Shivani was laid low by two slipped discs, which necessitated complete bed rest for the best part of three months. “I was on medication, and could hardly walk, even in my home. It was very difficult, and I was very depressed.” But she recovered, with the help of Choudhary’s encouragement. “From not walking to running, and then to dream of running 42 kilometres – it’s a feeling of, ‘I’m alive, and I can still do this!’”
 
 Running a marathon, says Choudhary, is like an addiction. “Everybody says that after running the last eight kilometres, they swear they won’t run again. But you’ll see the same person at the start line next year!”
 
 Butterflies may be fluttering furiously, but Gurleen, Sudesh and Shivani can’t wait for Sunday morning.
 
 
