If the government has its way, residents of apartment com plexes around   and in its catchment area, without functional sewage treatment plants, will have to take their sewage at own cost to the BWSSB-run STP at  , Nyandahalli.

 After inspecting   Lake along with a team of officials on Tuesday, additional chief secretary (urban development)   said that untreated sewage was a bigger problem than industrial waste.
 
 “Civic agencies have been told to intensify checking 157 apartment complexes around the lake. If it's found that an STP hasn't been set up or isn't functioning properly, they (residents) will have to take the sewage to the notified STP where the BWSSB will treat it at a cost. The Vrishabhavathi Valley STP has a surplus capacity, and the notification will be issued in a day or two,“ Jain said.
 
 “This plant has a capacity of 180 MLD but only 120 MLD sewage is being treated here. Residents will have to transport the sewage by tankers, and Rs 50 will be charged for treating 1,000 litres. They can bring the sewage once the notification is issued,“ said Ramakrishna, chief engineer, BWSSB.
 
 “The Vrishabhavathi Valley plant is almost 20km from here.Transporting domestic waste from Bellandur there will not be economical. It will need hundreds of trucks, which will further lead to more traffic jams in the city,“ said a resident of an apartment complex.
 
 “Bellandur Lake cannot be 20km away.
 
 cleared in one month. It will need about 50,000 trucks which will only cause traffic jams. A long-term solution will take at least 1 to 2 years“ said Leo F Saldanha, coordinator of Envi ronment Support Group.
 
 Indicating that most of these apartments already have STPs, Jain said, “Nobody should be allowed to dump un treated sewage into the lake.
 
 Residents must take responsi bility for their action. This is just a short-term solution till they build or repair STPs.“
 
 TIMES VIEW
 
 The government's initiative will definitely put pressure on the numerous apartment complexes around Bellandur Lake to install a sewage treatment plant or repair one if they already have it.
 
 People living in these apartments must realize that treating sewage they discharge is crucial to save the lake. At the same time, officials should have acted against these complexes earlier and penalized them instead of taking a knee-jerk action like this and leaving the residents worried and with no choice but to transport their sewage to a STP 20km away.
 
