THANE: In an attempt to boost conservation and protection of forests and wildlife in Maharashtra, the state forest deparment has launched a website http:www.greenarmy.mahaforest.gov.in for its   initiative. This site went live on January 14.

 The drive, which had begun its offline version earlier this month, was initially aimed at roping in citizens to help the department in their massive 50-crore tree plantation drive. However, this turned out to be a platform for citizens who were able to access information and participate in a number of green activities, including trekking, forest fire, animal census, etc.
 
 Sunil Limaye, chief conservator of forests ( ), said, “The forest department organises a number of activities every year, which citizens and nature and wildlife enthusiasts often remain una ware of. This platform was created to not only make the layman aware of such initiatives, but also allow them to participate in them. This will also increase the transparency of our work and abolish any misconceptions and assumptions that many have about the work of the forest department.“
 
 To quicken the process further, the state forest department has been given a target of securing a total of 10 lakh citizen registrations to the Green Army by the end of January.
 
 “While the state target is 10 lakh registrations by the end of this month, we aim at attracting over one crore citizens towards this green movement by the end of the year.Thane forest department's individual target for the month is 30,000 registrations and we have already received many entries for it,“ said Limaye.
 
 School children, collegians as well as environmentalists have already begun signing up for the upcoming green revolution.
 
 “I had heard about this initiative from a friend and have already enrolled on the Green Army. I love participating in treks, plantation drives and other conservation activities, but I get to know about such activities only through friends or after the event ends. Besides, I have also received a certificate stating that I am a part of this movement, which is beneficial for students like me,“ said   (24), a Pachpakhadi resident.
 
