KOCHI: Moving away from a system in which elders chart out development projects and programmes for children, Kerala is set on a path to make its   child-friendly. And it is not happening on namesake fancied by a few adults. It is the children themselves who are charting solutions to their problems.

  It started as a pilot attempt involving six local bodies --   and   -- three years ago. The representatives from these local bodies were trained and given a road-map on how they could plan their programmes in tune with the needs of the children. 
 
 “They were given the broad guideline to ensure that the four major rights of children - survival, development, protection and participation - are incorporated as per the United Nations Child Rights Commission ( ) convention," said Peter M Raj, associate professor, CRC, KILA. 
 
 The above panchayats pioneered the first projects which became the talk of town. Slowly requests came from neighbouring local bodies. Around 140 panchayats, 14 municipalities and one corporation were included in the first phase. As a first step, initiatives were taken to organise at least a couple of Balasabhas in which children are trained to understand the functioning of the panchayats and also about their rights in the society. 
 
 The level of sincerity and dedication shown by the children in planning their programmes have left the local representatives surprised. “I have attended more than 100 grama sabhas but the one conducted by children was amazing. In case of adults, the gathering disperses after an hour. But with children the sabha extended to more than 3-4 hours,” said Shaju Shankar S N, president, Sreekrishnapuram panchayat.
 
  He said that during the balasabhas, kids raised issues regarding alcohol and substance abuse. “Based on the concerns, we did crime mapping, organised counselling classes for 10th standard kids, built a park and actively pushed the immunisation coverage to almost 99.9%. By Onam, Class I in all schools in the panchayat will be hi-tech classrooms,” said Shaju. 
 
 Normally the funds and projects are planned under the social justice, education and health departments. “The aim is to make the institutions  . It could be in the form of increasing facilities for children including play areas, libraries, anganwadis, facilities in schools, making streets safer for kids, planning adolescent clubs etc,” said Peter Raj.
 
  The success has led to more and more local bodies approaching CRC for training and mentoring. 
 
 Meanwhile, Thrissur district panchayat has gone a step further and decided to extend child-friendly governance to the entire district. 
 
 “All our anganwadis will get new buildings with drinking water and toilet facilities. Vending machines are being set up in many schools. Drinking water is one of the main concerns in our district. So a major programme to revive all the public ponds and revive kole fields is in full swing. A bala sabha will be organised soon. We will also have help from Kila and Unicef,” said Sheela Vijayakumar, president, Thrissur district panchayat. 
 
 One of the challenges is that there are no child-specific schemes in local bodies and hence local bodies will have to take the extra effort to identify ways to incorporate these projects under existing schemes and find funds. 
 
 However, officials and NGOs involved in charting the roadmap to child-friendly local governance in Kerala are thrilled by the societal support coming in while planning and implementing projects that provide direct and immediate benefit to the children.
 
