COIMBATORE: It’s raining Good   at  . Anything the protesters need, seems to come to them with ease. “We have more food and water than we need. Anything we want reaches us in minutes. We have no idea from where it’s coming,” said on protester. But it is these behind the scenes volunteer who are helping sustain the intensity of the protest.

 Wearing a pair of gloves, 13-year-old Surya Pranav, has taken a day off from school to clean the VOC Park. Eight other class-mates have also joined him in his effort. Hundreds of  , buttermilk, juice, ice cream and packets of food to 40,000 protesters.
 
 K Haribalan, a techie was busy  . He had convinced his boss to give him half day off as he wanted to do something to show his support. “There are many policemen here but we also want to do our bit by helping them,” he said.
 
 A group of four men, Gopal, Vineet, Sanjay and Xavier from Sowripalayam brought 500 kg of fruits which they distributed to the students.
 
 Several industrialists and college owners  . Some went a step further by providing drinking water in steel tumblers to ensure the place was litter-free. “We are all businessmen from Gandhipuram and wanted to help these youngsters. We want to tell them that we will continue to support them to save our tradition,” said M Prakash. A group from Ukkadam provided food to more than 1000 students. R K Anandhi from Karanampettai drove all the way with a huge vessel of lemon rice to VOC park. “My children in USA have been following this protest and wanted me to help,” she said.
 
 Even people from the middle and lower middle classes did not shy away from helping the youngsters. Loganathan, a carpenter brought a carton full of biscuits to distribute to the students.
 
 All India Bank Officers Confederation, Coimbatore Unit, not only took part in the march but also provided water and snacks to the crowd. Vans carrying water, ice creams and food were a common sight on Avinashi road near Anna Silai.
 
 Hundreds who did not want to take part in sloganeering and music began cleaning up the park. “We wanted to take care of these people and also ensure our support. I saw some of them picking up plastic and I began doing the same,” said Suresh C.
 
 Resident welfare associations at LIC colony in Selvapuram provided 2000 litres of buttermilk to the students.
 
