CHANDIGARH: Decks have been cleared for the annual elections to the post of president of the Chandigarh   on April 16 with acting club president Ravibir Singh taking on former EC member, Ravi Virk. Both presidential candidates will lead a 10-member team each for election to the 11-member   (EC).

 The managing committee of the club is led by the president, who is assisted by the EC and has berths for three ex-officio representatives from the   administration. Last date withdrawal of nominations for the posts to the club's managing committee was Thursday after the nominations were earlier scrutinised and cleared by the returning officer, Lt Col RS Mangat (retd.), on March 26. The club has seen a turnout ranging from a low of 800 votes polled to a high of 1,142 in the last nine elections for the president's post, with the 2016 contest registering 898 votes. 
 
 The notable exception to Virk's team for the EC is that outgoing Honorary treasurer, TPS Virk, will not contest though his name was announced earlier by Ravi Virk as a member from his team. Teams for EC are - Ravi Virk's team: Alamgir S Grewal "Garry", Amarinder S Aulakh 'Gags', Dr Jaspreet S. Batth, P S Takkar 'Pari', Jagdeep Singh 'Jaggi', Col H S Chahal 'Bobby' (retd.), Col A D Singh (retd.), Sanjeev Verma, Ankush Garg and Engineer Satwant S Sandhu; Ravibir Singh's team: Arvind Bajaj, Sanjit S Bala, Col S D S Batth (retd.), K S Brar 'Sweety', Zorawar Singh, Rohit S Dagar, Col Hardev S. Mann (retd.), S P S Matharoo 'Jyoti', Shona A. Singh 'Manco', and Capt Mohanbir Singh 'Bunny' (retd.).
 
 While Ravi Virk has pitched his campaign on ushering in ''change and course corrections,'' Ravibir has reached out to voters on the strength of of his outgoing team's ''exemplary performance''. The contest is being closely watched by members at large for its undercurrents of change, dominant coalitions and competing power play of faction leaders.
 
 ''Everyone is saying the course conditions are very good, the new lounge and bar is being appreciated, the spit and polish in the clubhouse, the rework of the club's entrance have come in for praise from one and all. So, if members think we have performed, then they should vote for us. It is as simple as that,'' Ravibir told TOI. He took over as acting president after the incumbent IPS Mann died following affliction by an aggressive cancer strain in December 2016. 
 
 On the other hand, Ravi Virk, who has been a member of the Kasauli Club's executive committee for two years, told TOI: ''My vision for the golf club is to maintain course without any drastic changes or major expenditure, enforce fiscal discipline in accordance with laws/bylaws of club, proper planning of long-term capital expenditure and regular renedition of accounts such as quarterly statements of income and expenditure, and ensure that weekends and holidays are kept free for members to enjoy club and course and ensure that members' participation in tournaments is maximised. I would work to ensure that proposals of the UT administration on the lease issue such as veto powers, a short lease and interest calculations are negotiated in the club's favour,'' Virk told TOI.
 
 Responding to Virk's concerns over the lease issue, Ravibir told TOI that the proposal of the administration to bestow a ''veto'' power on the three UT representatives in the Managing Committee was not a correct understanding. ''The UT proposal is that in case the three UT officers on the   disagree with any decision of the MC, which they perceive as an illegality, they should have power to refer the decision to administrator. It is not a veto but an impingement on autonomy of MC and I am in agreement with Virk that this cannot be allowed.
 
 We are also seeking a favourable outcome to the extension of the lease for a minimum of 33 years from the 14 years (2008-'22) proposed by the Administration. The administration has been very responsive to our concerns on these issues.'' 
 
