LUCKNOW: Amidst reports of increasing police encounters and killing of criminals in UP for about a month, chief minister   on Saturday sent a message about his government's intent ­ “Goliyon ka jawab goliyon se hi denge (We will counter bullet with bullets).“

 “Agar nirdosh vyapaariyon ke, kisano ke apharan honge, nabalig ladkiyon ka rape hoga ...toh kya hum mala japenge? (Don't expect us to sit idle if criminals indulge in kidnapping and rape and other heinous crimes),“ Yogi told a private news channel on Saturday.
 
 In the past few months, law and order situation has improved in the state, criminals either have surrendered in other states, having fled UP, Yogi said. Asked about a rise in group clashes, especially in western UP, Yogi said there have been no riots in the state in the past six months, while there were 450 riots in previous government's five year term.
 
 “Only one caste clash has been reported, from  . However, quick action was taken and situation brought under control. People have developed confidence in the past six months,“ said Yogi.
 
 Yogi seconded the contention of Prime Minister Narendra Modi that all elections should be held simultaneously.
 
 “I have often said that the country is seized with things all the time ­ elections and examinations. A new government has just been formed in UP but will be plunged into elections soon ­ first local bodies, then Vidhan Parishad, followed by Lok Sabha and panchayat elections,“ he said.
 
 Time and energy spent in conducting and taking part in elections could have been spent in development of the state. A new government should get complete five years to work on its agenda.
 
 We are ready for the election any time,“ said Yogi.
 
 He criticised the media for “sensationalizing“ deaths of infants at   in Gorakhpur. “Compared to previous, the number of deaths has come down by almost half this year. This was because of the government's efforts in the past six months,' said Yogi. 
 
 Counting out the work his government has done in the state, chief minister Aditya Nath Yogi said on Saturday that, for the first time, vaccination of 92 lakh children was done in encephalitis-affected districts of UP. “Similarly, for the first time, paediatric ICU was made operational in 20 critical districts. Also, for the first time, doctors from these 20 districts were provided primary training on how to treat encephalitis-affected patients,“ Yogi added. He was speaking to a TV channel.
 
 Yogi attacked the Samajwadi Party and Bahujan Samaj Party, saying that they do not have a political agenda. “They work for their own selfish motives, not heeding the welfare of the people. They are engaged in their own welfare. These parties will find it difficult to maintain their foothold in a progressive UP,“ he added.
 
 Asked if the government plans to change school syllabus, the CM said syllabus should be on the lines of  . “A committee is being formed to ensure that changed syllabus is implemented in primary, secondary and higher education,“ he said.
 
 Asked if there could be an attempt to “saffronise“ education, Yogi said: “Hindutva is the soul of the country. How long will people humiliate us in the name of being communal,“ Yogi said, adding that ensuring children get to know about nationalist personalities and great leaders cannot be termed “saffronisation.“ What else will children study then, he quipped.
 
