CHENNAI: Several decades before Elliot’s Beach in   became an  , the Tamil Nadu Housing Board (TNHB) developed and sold a string of   to middle- and low-income group customers and also plots for common use, which are now a bone of contention.

 In the past 47 years, the locality has transformed from a quaint area into a fashionable address attracting the rich and pushing up property prices. With the appreciation of property value, commercial entities have found ingenious ways to sidestep development rules and commit violations, denuding the neighbourhood of peace. One section which has been giving sleepless nights to residents is a forum titled   Welfare Association. 
 
 Taking advantage of the fact that residents of 27th Cross Street had been allotted open spaces and garages that had independent access from 28th Cross Street, some allottees have sold the garage space, in violation of the rules. “A garage is not an independent property. It is part of a residential unit, and hence cannot be sold separately,” said an office-bearer of the Elliots Beach Flat Owners Welfare Association. 
 
 While people who were using the garages as shops and offices, later built a compound wall in the open space meant for common use, revenue officials legalised it by issuing pattas. “The entire 13 car garage space put together would measure about 2,300sqft. But, some people built a compound wall between their homes and common area, thereby increasing the space to more than 8,000sqft. They have now obtained patta to apply for a new building there,” rued an elderly resident of the area.
 
 “Revenue, police and registration department officials worked overtime to issue patta and allowed the ‘garage owners’, which includes a former judge of Madras high court, build the wall. About a dozen men, identifying themselves as advocates, stood through the night when the compound wall was built by force recently. Though we could not stop them, we have videographed the incident,” said office-bearers of flat owners association.
 
 When contacted, former judge of Madras high court Justice M Jaichandren said there were cases pending in court. “There is nothing to hide. Common patta has been issued for the garage area. The wall built by TNHB was broken by someone identified as Rajeswari and others. A complaint for criminal encroachment has been filed, besides a civil case. I cannot say much because it is sub judice,” he said.
 
