SHIMLA: As expected Chief Minister   has finally announced to give unemployment allowance to educated youth of state in his budget speech on Friday. Fulfilling the poll promise four years after coming to power Virbhadra Singh said that 10+2 or above educated youth would get Rs 1000 per month as unemployment allowance while physically challenged unemployed youth would get Rs 1500 per month.

 In the cabinet meeting held on March 1, roadmap to announce unemployment allowance was prepared to make the announcement. While presenting budget estimates for 2017-18, Virbhadra Singh allocated Rs 150 crore to provide the unemployment allowance. Virbhadra Singh was under immense pressure to announce unemployment allowance not only from opposition BJP but from his own partymen including state   president Sukhvinder Singh Sukhu, Transport Minister G S Bali and   MP Viplove Thakur as in 2012 assembly election Congress party had promised to give unemployment allowance in its manifesto.
 
 As poll promise made in 2012 was not fulfilled, G S Bali had even announced to hold a rally in Nagrota area of Kangra district on March 26 but now as Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh had fulfilled the promise not Bali is likely to cancel his proposed rally. With this announcement, Congress government is hoping to fulfill its "Mission repeat" dream as state has around 8.25 lakh educated youth registered with the employment exchanges in the state.
  Leader of Opposition   said that unemployment allowance was promised in the 2012 assembly election but all these years Virbhadra Singh led Congress government did not fulfil this promise despite youth voting the party to power.
  
 He said now state is going for election in a few months and Virbhadra Singh has suddenly remembered to give unemployment allowance. He said that people would not be befooled by this announcement and would throw the Congress out of power in coming election. He said if government is serious in fulfilling the promise then it should give unemployment allowance since coming to power as per the poll promise.
 
