MUMBAI: The Parksite police have arrested a civil contractor,  , who was carrying out renovation works at Shiv Sena leader Sunil Shitap’s flats at the Ghatkopar building that collapsed on Tuesday, killing 17 persons.   is reportedly not a qualified contractor, said a source. He will be produced before a holiday court on Sunday.

 TOI had reported in its Saturday edition about   having hired an interior designer, not an architect, to renovate his flats. A source said that Mandal, was supervising the renovation work. The interior designer,  , is on the run. Though Mandal was co-ordinating with Agale, he was also in touch with Shitap and the labourers at the site. 
 
 “Mandal is the key link between Shitap, Agale and the workers. Mandal was paid Rs 1 lakh for the job,” said a source.
 
 Police have also detained two of the five workers who were working at the site. The two workers have given the police a detailed account of the incident. They have told the police that they came to work at the flats around 9.40am and after some time, they started breaking plasters on the walls and the pillars. Around 10.20am, Shitap came to the building, spoke to some of the workers and then left in his car. Soon after, one of the workers have told the police, they noticed the pillars bending and concrete falling apart. “All the workers rushed out and started shouting at the residents to come out of the building, but it was too late,” said source.
 
 One of the building residents,  , said they had objected to Shitap’s men breaking walls in his flats to merge them into one. “There was a huge sound when they broke the walls and some residents had complained to me. Two days before the building collapsed, Iwent to Shitap’s flat to check what was going on but he threatened the residents. So, I did not go inside and just peeped inside from the windows. He had broken the walls at the centre of the three flats,” said  .
 
 Other residents said that Shitap would keep threatening them with a gun that was reportedly tucked in his trousers. Ramchandani said that the building was fit and blamed Shitap’s irresponsible renovation for the collapse. “Had he not touched the pillars and walls and only done replastering, the building would have survived a few more years. Shitap should be booked for murder,” he added.
 
