NEW DELHI: In a bid to decongest the capital’s borders,   has invited bids for developing radio frequency identification (RFID) lanes to collect tolls. 

 The civic agency, which is the nodal body for collecting toll tax, had floated a tender to appoint a consultant last year. However, it failed to attract any bidder. In all, 13 entry points will be covered, requiring 65 RFID lanes.
 
 Toll points selected for the project include   (main and old), Kalindi Kunj, Kapashera, Kundli, Rajokri, Shahdara Flyover, Tikri, DND Toll bridge, Aya Nagar and Badarpur border.
 
 RFID is a small device with a chip that acts like a bar code. When it passes through a scanner, information about the vehicle can be obtained and toll tax and congestion charge can be debited from its e-purse, an official said.
 
 In October 2015, the Supreme Court had ordered collection of environment compensation cess (ECC) from double- and multi-axle commercial vehicles to bring down the number of trucks entering the city. Within two months of introduction of ECC in November, the number of trucks entering Delhi declined by 20%. There was 35% decline in particulate matter in the air. 
 
 In 2016, about Rs 700 crore collected through ECC remained unused. This money was supposed to be utilised for improving infrastructure and installation of   cameras.
 
 “We had floated the tender earlier but, due to technical glitches, couldn’t award the work to any private concessionaire. We have reworked the tender and are hopeful that the work will be awarded at the earliest,” said a senior official of the south corporation.
 
 The ECC package includes green tax from light and heavy commercial vehicles. The authorities were directed by the SC to modernise toll collection by introducing an RFID-based system and installing CCTV cameras at all 124 entry points to the city. A fund of Rs 120 crore was required for installation of RFID lanes for five years.
 
 Officials from the toll tax department of the south corporation said RFID could also be used to end manual payment. “We often receive complaints from toll points that many drivers do not have the cash to pay ECC. By introducing RFID, the taxes can be easily collected through e-purses,” said a corporation official.
 
 
