DEHRADUN: A recent survey conducted by MKP (PG) college, the biggest girls' college in the city, has found that 60% of the 250 respondents were addicted to taking selfies. A startling 80% of the students said that they kept their smartphones under their pillows while sleeping. 

 Many of the students surveyed were found to have symptoms similar to those in Obsessive Compulsive Disorder (OCD) and 70% of them said they felt the need to constantly check their smartphones. The survey was supervised by Dr  , who is from the psychology department and is the convenor of the college's women's cell, and conducted by a team of BA second semester students. 
 
 In the survey, 250 students enrolled in various courses filled out a detailed questionnaire on their smartphone habits. The survey found that over 65% of the students had 'Mobophobia' or fear of being without their smartphone. Some students said that they constantly worried about their devices running out of battery. 
 
 The women who were found to have selfie-addiction also had low self-esteem and almost 50% of them said they were annoyed if they were not able to take a good  . . 
 
 The selfie-addicts were also found to have insomnia, increased feelings of loneliness and also showed signs of narcissism. 
 
 Seventy percent of the respondents said that they felt proud when their posts were 'liked' on social media while 80% of them said that they used beauty apps to make their selfies look better. 
 
 The alarming findings of the survey prompted the women's cell of the college to organise a special session on 'Selfie Addiction' on Monday. 
 
 Talking to TOI, Balodi said, "We wanted to highlight contemporary issues that students deal with and selfie addiction seems to emerge as the topmost problem. We intend to hold workshops in the future to help students deal with selfie-addiction. During our session, we also had a presentation and a skit to warn students against experimenting with alcohol and drugs." Dr  , principal of the MKP (PG) College, said, "We want young girls enrolled in our college to become confident and empowered women once they step out of here, which is why the women's cell was constituted in 2007 to assist them. The students are advised to practise self-control if they have a selfie addiction." 
 
 Alvira Saifi, a student who was part of the survey team, said, "We prepared a number of questions initially but narrowed down later to 20. Based on the answers, we concluded that selfie-addiction is a major issue which needs urgent attention." 
 
