In 2014,   swept  , winning a historic 73 of 80 seats. Roughly translated into assembly seats, it suggested BJP had bagged nearly 328 assembly constituencies. However, the saffron party's fortunes seem to have dipped since 2014. It lost 16 of the 19 byelections to assembly seats after 2014, and not only faces a backlash due to demonetisation, but also dissent from local leaders who find themselves sidelined.

 BJP's opposition is hardly doing any better. Even as  , fighting to retain its position as the principal opposition in the national politics, enters the fray ,  's BSP and SP are playing the endgame to retain their hold over a state where electoral wins and losses are more significant than ever before. As the state with highest number of Assembly seats readies for the four-cornered contest, TOI looks at the highs and the lows that each of the parties are faced with.
 
 
 
 
 After the 2012 poll drubbing, the political fortune of Mayawati plummeted further in the 2014   polls when BSP drew a blank.
 
 In 2015, she made a comeback in panchayat polls by defeating SP and BJP . BSP candidates won Tamauli in Azamgarh and Jayapur in Varanasi, the two villages adopted by Mulayam Singh Yadav and  , respectively. In order to woo Muslim voters, she gave tickets to 97 minorities.
 
 Hyderabad University scholar Rohith Vemula's suicide helped Mayawati to consolidate her Dalit vote bank, which deserted her during the 2014 elections. She was quick to term BJP “anti-Dalit“. The Una Dalit flogging and BJP's Dayashankar Singh comparing her with a “prostitute“ also came as a boon to her.
 
 She, however, faced a huge setback when, on June 22, her most trusted lieutenant Swami Prasad Maurya rebelled, accusing her of selling tickets to candidates. Since then, 10 MLAs and a former MP have left BSP to join BJP . Even former BSP MLA and a close associate of BSP founder Kanshiram, RK Chaudhary also left the party , accusing Mayawati of indulging in large-scale corruption.
 
 
 
 
 In the political wilderness for 27 years, Congress is hoping for a resurrection of its fortunes. The party got off to a slow start, but hit a high in September 2016, when vice-president Rahul Gandhi led the Rahul Kisan Yatra from Deoria to New Delhi.
 
 Congress drew people's attention for promising to waive farm loans, halve rural electricity bills and get fair minimum support prices for crops. Rahul's month-long yatra not only grabbed headlines for its stolen `khats' and quotable quotes against the PM, but also saw over two crore farmers signing Congress `Kisan Maang Patra', demanding loan waiver.
 
 The crescendo has, however, since sagged. More recently , the narrative within Congress has shifted to talk of a likely political alliance with SP. Following a quiet meeting between chief minister Akhilesh Yadav and Priyanka Vadra, a tie-up looks likely.
 
 
 
 
 SP government banks on its development agenda and the clean image of Akhilesh Yadav, but the `pari-war' and the suspense over the party symbol has created confusion among cadres and voters alike.
 
 Keeping up with his image of a tech-savy, pro-development young leader, Akhilesh has given over 15 lakh laptops to students as promised in the election manifesto for 2012 polls. The move has made him popular among young voters who comprise one-third of the 13.85-crore electorate in UP . Backed by a series of development projects, the Samajwadi pension scheme, free water and electricity for irrigation and scholarships for students will pay rich dividends.
 
 However, the party has been trying to keep its flock together amid an ongoing family feud, keeping cadre and voters in tatters. The party has drawn flak over law and order. It has faced criticism for the riots and violence, including Muzaffarnagar and Mathura.
 
 
 
 
 Results of 2014 Lok Sabha elections have put BJP in a growth path in UP . The party still depends on Brand Modi, and hasn't announced the CM candidate. PM Modi has held seven rallies and has been trying to woo Brahmins, Dalits and OBCs. However, the road ahead seems to be not smooth for BJP.
 
