Vikram Jit Singh | TNN

  Dam (Mohali): More than a 100 species of insects have been listed by an entomology team from the Wildlife Institute of India (WII), Dehradun, at the Siswan Dam jungles, including a very high number of Yellow Orange-tip butterflies. These butterflies are a salient indicator of the health of the Siswan eco-system anchored on a perennial source of sub-montane run-off water stored at this large check dam.
 
 Damsel flies of the Senegalensis species are another salient indicator species of Siswan as they prefer pollution-free water as their eggs are laid in water. The WII team, which is conducting day and night field research by collecting specimens, is here for a five-day stint. The team will wind up the first round of the entomological survey by Thursday night.
 
 The stunning discovery comes close on the heels of renowned WII field biologist, Dr Bivash Pandav, declaring Siswan as one of the “most productive wildlife habitats of the Shivalik ranges”.
 
 “The Siswan ecosystem harbours a very high potential for entomological studies due to the wetland. Our focus is on delineating a set of species whose numbers over the years can be surveyed again and again, and this will in turn indicate how the Siswan ecosystem is faring as an entirety. I am most impressed with the profusion of Orange-tip butterflies and I will recommend to the Punjab government that this area be re-named and declared: ‘Siswan Orange-tip Butterfly Conservation/Community Reserve’. The high number of these butterflies shows that the Siswan jungles are rich in the butterflies’ host plants,” said professor V P Uniyal from the WII. He is a renowned entomologist, who has also conducted a three-year entomology survey of the entire Kargil-Ladakh region till the southern Siachen glacier.
 
 Dr Uniyal is leading a team of field researchers for the Siswan survey that includes PhD student, Kritesh De, and dissertation students at the WII, Amarpal Singh and Shagun Mahajan. The first round of the insect survey follows similar first round surveys by WII researchers of Siswan's wild fauna, flora and avian diversity in May 2017. The surveys in May 2017 turned up stunning camera trap images of leopards, sambars, wild boars and barking deer in the Siswan jungles, apart from a profusion of birds and wild flora species.
 
 While most of the public attention is confined to iconic mega species such as leopards and tigers, these critters or micro-organisms get much less than their due share of attention and conservation priority. “We have till now found 10 species of ants, including fire ants, at Siswan. These are natural architects of the soil. They make tunnels, which go 1-2 metres below the soil and hence assist in percolation of surface water and micro-nutrient re-cycling. We also found Ground beetles of the family caribidae, which indicates the Siswan soil structure is favourable for them. The Blister beetles at Siswan indicate good flowering of the cucurbitaci or gourd family of plants, which the beetles feed upon. When we again do surveys and find a change in numbers of these salient indicator insect species, we will know how the Siswan ecosystem is faring over a period of time,” explained Dr Uniyal.
 
 If plants are flowering but not fruiting, it indicates the absence of pollinators such as butterflies, birds, beetles etc. But Siswan is fortunate as it is well protected and rich in these pollinator species. The WII team was anxiously awaiting the rains since Sunday and the overnight monsoon rains brought in their wake a huge surge of insect life on Tuesday morning. The WII researchers commence work at 5.30 in the morning, break in the late afternoon, and work into the night collecting specimens of moths of the family, Saturnidae, which are active after sunset. The team is also keen to discover the firefly species that inhabit Siswan wetland.
 
 
