BHUBANESWAR: The CBI here on Tuesday arrested BJD MLA Pravat Ranjan Biswal for his alleged involvement in the Seashore Group chit fund scam, prompting the ruling party to launch an attack on the BJP-led Centre and describing his arrest as politically motivated.
The investigative agency said the role of the Cuttack-Choudwar MLA came under scanner following an alleged dubious land deal carried out by his wife, Laxmi Bilasini, with Seashore Group, accused of duping investors of more than Rs 500 crore.
 
 The controversial land deal dates back to 2011. Sources in the CBI said Seashore Group chief Prashant Dash wanted to purchase a piece of land in Jajpur district that belonged to Laxmi Bilasini. The price was settled at Rs 25 lakh and the amount was transferred to her bank account. The CBI found that she had diverted around Rs 9 lakh to her husband’s account.
 
 “When the deal did not materialize, Dash sought his money back. The couple claimed to have returned the money to Seashore Group. But they could produce very little evidence to substantiate their claim,” the CBI officer said. The couple had been interrogated twice in the past in connection with the land deal.
 
 “It seemed the money was still with them. They must have received the money as a favour for political patronage to the firm,” the officer added. Biswal’s wife, who received the money, may soon face the CBI heat. 
 
 “I am innocent. It is a political conspiracy and injustice done towards me,” Biswal told the media outside the CBI court, which allowed the probe agency to take him on five-day remand for interrogation. The 51-year-old Biswal was picked up from his house on Monday night for interrogation and arrested on Tuesday.
 
 Minutes after his arrest, the BJD slammed the Centre for what it termed as a political vendetta, a charge that was similar to the one made by West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee following the arrest of Trinamool Congress leaders in the Rose Valley scam.
 
 And just like Mamata, the BJD too decided to back its Cuttack-Choudwar MLA. At a press conference, the party announced the decision to throw its weight behind Biswal.
 
 Biswal’s arrest could come as a jolt to the BJD ahead of next year’s municipal body election. In 2014, the CBI had arrested BJD   in connection with the Artha Tatwa (AT) Group chit fund scam and   in Nava Diganta Ponzi scam. Some other MLAs and MP Rabindra Jena too were summoned and quizzed in separate ponzi cases as well.
 
 The Seashore Group scam caused the maximum embarrassment to the ruling BJD as the state government had engaged the firm to execute a series of projects in Odisha through public-private-partnership mode between 2009 and 2011.
 
