PANAJI: A unique constituency in Goa with six riverine islands, Cumbharjua is involved in a five-cornered contest with sitting MLA Pandurang Madkaikar momentarily enjoying the upper hand.

 The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) nominee quit Congress purportedly to bolster his chances of retaining his seat for the fourth time since 2002. Madkaikar may be relieved, as his old foe Nirmala Sawant declined the Congress ticket for the February 4 polls. But his apprehensions don’t end there. He has a few new faces waiting to wrest power in this island segment of Divar, Vanxim, Cumbharjua, St Estevam, Akhada and Tolto.
 
 Sawant has proved a tough opponent for Madkaikar in the past. Madkaikar contested on a   (MGP) ticket in June 2002 won by just 608 votes. He later quit MGP to join BJP, but in 2005 he quit the saffron party to topple the BJP government and re-joined Congress. 
 
 Now he is back with the BJP after briefly considering MGP for his next move. The straggling Congress party’s indecision that ended in finally propping up new face Xavier Fialho, provides relief for Madkaikar in place of Sawant. In 2007, he defeated the independent candidate by just 571 votes and by a more comfortable margin of 1,575 votes in 2012. Sawant, a loyal Congress leader, had been contesting as an independent since 2005 (byelection) after Madkaikar was given the ticket for sacrificing his seat in the BJP. 
 
 With Prakash Naik of   (AAP),   supported by MGP and Vishal Volvoikar, an independent challenging Madkaikar along with Fialho, poll analysts agree that the sitting MLA is on more familiar ground. 
 
 “BJP has correctly comprehended his winning quotient and managed to draw him into its fold, though it has pretended to overlook allegations against him of usurping land for a police station,” a voter in Old Goa said.
 
 Fialho has to speed up his campaign and crunch it into barely 10 days to snatch an advantage, which appears to be a mammoth task. Former Carambolim sarpanch and Congress leader,   who was also in contention for a ticket has extended his support to him. 
 
 The Congress nominee will expect to garner the party’s traditional vote and tap the resentment against Madkaikar, mainly due to anti-incumbency and his party-hopping. Though Cumbharjua forms the nucleus of the constituency, Old Goa as a world heritage site with its monuments in the church complex is the centre of attraction. Madkaikar has promised a master plan for the former capital in his manifesto. 
 
 “But this is only lip service to the cause. The three-time MLA has done nothing to get the master plan for Old Goa which heritage lovers and others have been demanding for so long. The plan would also be against his interests as a builder,” a voter said
 
 The electorate, especially islanders, have been complaining about lack of basic amenities such as good roads, regular power and water supply. A network of bridges is needed, but islanders are wary about easy access, as it may bring about faster pace of development.
 
 Madkaikar has formed several self-help groups and initiated some schemes to keep women in his constituency busy. “Female voters form a sizeable chunk here,” a voter in Cumbharjua said. 
 
 While Madkaikar has sounded confident, a few factors like Sawant’s declaration of support to MGP-supported candidate Harmalkar and AAP breaking new ground in the constituency are likely to decide which way the results swing.
 
 A rebellion threatening Madkaikar’s prospects after Siddhesh Naik, son of Union minister of state for AYUSH Shripad Naik, was denied a ticket has been contained with finesse by party leaders. The minister also readily fell in line.
 
 With barely a few days left for the polls, will a new face emerge from the banks of  ?
 
