NEW DELHI: These men came to the capital from a village in Bhilwara, Rajasthan and lived as nomads under flyovers. During the day, they would work as labourers ferrying goods on rickshaws and recce the areas visited by them. At night, they would burgle houses in the upscale areas of south and west Delhi.

 The   used improvised equipment called ‘Daulatiya’, which was especially designed to break locks. Made from an iron rod, the tool is used to tether camels in the desert. The tool was improvised for heavy door locks, central locks, cupboards and almirahs. It also doubled up as a weapon in case the victims woke up and resisted the burglary attempt, police said.
 
 Before the men would go out to steal, the women would conduct prayers wishing them good luck. The ceremonies would usually be conducted under the flyovers.
 
 Cops from the west district got to know about two criminals living under Lajwanti flyover. An informer told them that the gang would go to Paschim Vihar to sell the booty. This gang had recently burgled a dozen houses and left no trail.
 
 “On September 8, a team led by inspector S S Sandhu raided their hideout and arrested Babu Lal (22) and Ram Prasad (40). Incidentally, the two had committed burglary the same day in Hari Nagar. They had dug up the ground under the rugs on which they lived and hidden jewellery, coins, glasses and silver bowls,” said DCP (west)  .
 
 Probe revealed that the gang had struck in other parts of the city as well. The women also played an active role by conducting a survey of houses and passing on the information to the men. There is no record of the number of such people who arrive in the city each year and this often helps them escape, police said.
 
 Back home, these men have little work to do during summer. Many of them, who work in the agricultural sector, would then head towards Delhi. They would find shelter under the flyovers across Delhi where they would cook and sleep on rugs laid on the ground.
 
 The two arrested men revealed that the members of their tribe usually operate in groups of 5-10 members. Two of them would cover the others and kill people if challenged, police said.
 
 
