NEW DELHI: A special session of the Delhi assembly witnessed the Aam Aadmi Party government enacting a dramatic demonstration of “EVM tampering“ on the floor of the House on Tuesday. A “secret code“ rigged the outcome -eight votes polled in favour of 'AAP' after the rigging registered in the name of the 'BJP candidate', resulting in a 'BJP victory'.

 Later, CM   dared the   to provide an EVM to AAP, claiming it could be tampered within 90 seconds by changing its motherboard.
 
 The atmosphere of gloom that had enveloped the party with sacked minister Kapil Mishra hurling a slew of corruption charges at Kejriwal and his colleagues was not at all visible in the House, which adopted a resolution appealing to the President and EC to ensure that every future election is held with voter verifiable paper trail as directed by the Supreme Court. The resolution calls for introduction of a standard procedure whereby votes polled and counted through EVMs in at least 25% of booths that are randomly picked by draw of lots in each constituency are tallied with the physical count of paper trail recorded through VVPAT.
 
 Kejriwal has repeatedly blamed his party's poll debacles on tampering of EVMs. Before Tuesday's demonstration, by party MLA  , Kejriwal tweeted, “Saurabh Bharadwaj will reveal the truth behind a big conspiracy in the country. Satyameva jayate.“ On Monday night, Kejriwal had tweeted, “Truth will win. A beginning will be made tomorrow.“
 
 After a few MLAs expressed concern over the alleged tampering, Bharadwaj delivered a live demonstration on how the machine can be programmed to favour any political party. At the end of the demonstration, as the AAP MLAs rose to applaud, Bharadwaj challenged the Centre, saying: “Give us access to the warehouse where the EVMs for Gujarat polls are kept. We need just three hours to change all motherboards and hack the machines. I challenge that once the secret code is introduced, you (BJP) will not win a single booth in the state.“
 
 “He (Bharadwaj) showed how easy it is to hack EVMs, and it is being done on a massive scale. It is dangerous for democracy and the country and people should raise their voice against it,“ Kejriwal told reporters outside the assembly. “The ECI can give us its machine and we will show how to hack it in 90 seconds by merely changing its motherboard.“
 
 Bharadwaj had claimed that a voting machine can be manipulated by simply feeding it with a secret code. He demonstrated how it can be actually done using what party sources said was a “prototype EVM“ developed by “a group of IITians“. Leaders of Congress, CPM, Trinamool Congress, Janata Dal (United) and Rashtriya Janata Dal were present in the gallery of the house during the demonstration.
 
 Bharadwaj, who represents the Greater Kailash constituency , claimed that in his capacity as an engineer, he had extensively worked in this area and was aware of how the machines can be programmed -even though his knowledge was dated as he had quit the profession four years ago.
 
 With the permission of the speaker, he brought in the EVM prototype. He first cast two votes each for AAP, BSP, BJP, Congress and Samajwadi Party . Then he cast a third vote as an imaginary voter who is actually the 'hacker'. As the hacker, he used the cover of the six-second beep sound to key in a secret code which would match the software already embedded in the machine.
 
 After that Bharadwaj cast eight votes for AAP but the control unit registered all eight in favour of BJP. The young MLA presented two comparative charts of the results, one if the machine had not been tampered with, showing AAP as the winner, and another after tampering with the machine which resulted in BJP getting 11 votes.As a parting shot, he exclaimed: “And as this result came, drums beats were heard and BJP MLAs Jagdish Pradhan and Manjinder Singh Sirsa started dancing.“
 
 While Sirsa and Pradhan jumped to their feet in anger objecting to the mocking, the ruling party MLAs started thumping the desks as a sign of vindication of their allegations that EVMs are not tamper-proof. “We are not making baseless allegations on EVM manipulation. With this demonstration, it has been proved that EVMs can actually be hacked,“ Bharadwaj said. “EVM manipulation is a very serious issue. It is a danger to democracy . There is no machine in the world which cannot be hacked,“ the AAP MLA added.
 
