NEW DELHI: Bengaluru teenage driver   will become the third Indian to test a   car when he was announced as the development driver for the American F1 team   on Thursday. Maini will test alongside 18-year-old US driver Santino Ferrucci.

 Hailing from a racing family, Maini came into limelight when he won the ‘One in a Billion’ driver talent hunt programme organised by Force India in 2011. The win earned him a karting stint in Europe and he is currently competing in the GP3 series with Jenzer Motorsport.
 
  and   are the only Indians to have raced in Formula One, with the former scoring points when he finished fourth for Jordan in the six-car US Grand Prix of 2005.
 
 Maini will be embedded with Haas team at every opportunity, attending races and tests throughout the year while also participating in the team’s simulator program. He informed that the Haas deal did not require him to bring a financial contribution.
 
 "It's an honour to be a part of Haas F1 team’s driver development programme," Arjun said. "All of my racing to date has been with the focus of becoming a F1 driver and this opportunity puts me one step closer to my goal. I am eager to learn, understand and experience how an F1 team operates," he added.
 
 Along with younger brother Kush, Main is mentored and managed by Chandhok who finally managed to secure this drive for Maini after five months of negotiations throughout the paddock.
 
 "I've been managing Arjun along with his father for the past few years. Since the last year, we were working on a link with an F1 team and it took a few months for his dad and I to work with Guenther Steiner and the team at Haas F1 to get here. It’s a good first step into the F1 world and Arjun will learn a lot. How we convert this to a race seat in F1 will largely be down to his season in GP3 which starts this weekend," Chandhok told TOI from Barcelona on Thursday.
 
 "I got involved with Arjun a couple of years back when he was racing in the Formula 4 series in England. I have been taking him around the paddock and introduced him to some of the top F1 people as well. He’s also been training with me because it is good to know what level he need to be at to succeed at this level," he added.
 
 "As Haas F1 Team continues to mature, we must look toward our future and develop potential talent," Haas team principal Guenther Steiner said. "Arjun was successful in karting and has transitioned well to various Formula series and now GP3. We'll keep a keen eye on his progress this year," added Steiner.
 
 Arjun earned his first title in 2007 when he won the Rotax Mini Max National Championship. He won the 2013 Formula BMW Super Six Series in Asia and finished second overall in the 2014 BRDC Formula 4 championship. In 2015, he competed in the Toyota Racing Series New Zealand and finished fourth in the standings before moving up to GP3 in 2016. However, the test driver’s berth is Maini’s biggest breakthrough yet.
 
