PUNE:   will have to pay higher property tax and water tax if municipal commissioner Kunal Kumar’s proposal to hike both taxes gets cleared by the standing committee and general body of the Pune Municipal Corporation. Kumar has proposed a 12% hike in property tax and 15% in water tax in the annual   for 2017-18 which he tabled on Thursday. 

 The civic administration hopes to mop up an additional revenue of Rs 118 crore from the proposed hikes — Rs 89 crore from property tax and Rs 29 crore from water tax. 
 
 An assent to the hike from the standing committee and general body is expected to be a formality as this is a “non-election” year and the   has a clear majority in the civic body, sources said.
 
 Kumar said the revenue collected from both taxes will be utilized for many key projects, including augmenting the city’s water supply and plugging loopholes in drinking water distribution. 
 
 The Rs 5,600-crore budget for 2017-18 is the highest-ever presented by any Pune municipal commissioner. Last year’s budget was for Rs 5,199 crore. Justifying the budget size, Kumar said funds have been proposed considering the city’s growing requirements and the major infrastructural challenges it is going to face over the next few years. The thrust is on making the life of citizens better, he claimed.
 
 The budget allocates Rs 766 crore (capital expenditure) for augmenting the drinking water distribution in the city. Major focus will be on the construction of water tanks for 24x7 water supply, laying of water pipelines and provision of a pipeline up to the Pune Cantonment water works. A sizeable allocation has also been made for sewage treatment, which includes laying of sewage lines, construction of sewage treatment plants and upgradation of pumping stations.
 
 Among major projects the administration wants to implement are a comprehensive bicycle plan, public cycle-sharing system, a high capacity mass transit route, paperless building permissions, mobile-based governance and outsourcing of garbage.
 
 Speaking to TOI, mayor   of the BJP said her party was yet to arrive at a decision on the tax hike proposal. “We will discuss the budget and the tax hike at the party level. After due diligence, we will take a decision on whether to approve or reject the hike,” she said.
 
 Citizens’ group People’s Union has opposed the proposed hike, saying that the present taxes were already a huge burden on the common man. “Funds accruing from taxes are to be used for regular development works. They are not expected to be used for unnecessary and bigger projects,” said Ramesh Dharmavat of the group.
 
