NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court rejected on Tuesday the plea of a Mumbai woman to abort her 26-week-old   which, reports show, suffers from ‘Down Syndrome’ and may be born with physical and mental abnormalities. 

 Sympathising with the 37-year old woman, a bench of Justices S A Bobde and L N Rao said while it was sad for a mother to bring up a mentally challenged child, it could not permit her to abort it. The judges said that abortion of a foetus over 20 weeks old could be allowed only if there was a danger to the life of the mother or the foetus had no chance of survival. 
 
 The apex court passed the order on the basis of a medical report prepared by a group of senior doctors from Mumbai’s KEM Hospital. The SC had directed the hospital to constitute a board to examine the woman and the foetus. According to the report, the foetus is suffering from   and there is a possibility that the child may be born with some physical and medical abnormalities. It, however, said there was no threat to the life of the mother or the foetus. 
 
 Accepting the findings of the report, the bench said it was not possible to allow the woman to go for medical termination of pregnancy. Pointing out that the report did not conclusively say that the child would be born with physical or mental abnormalities and it was merely a possibility, the judges said children suffering from Down Syndrome were as affectionate and lovable as any normal child and they could lead a normal life despite having some deficiencies. In these circumstances, the bench said, it was not possible to grant permission for abortion. 
 
 Senior advocate Colin Gonsalves, appearing for the woman, contended that she should have the full right to terminate her pregnancy and the present law not permitting abortion above 20 weeks was not in line with the norms followed across the world. He said the petitioner should be allowed to challenge the provision as a similar case was pending before the apex court. The bench thereafter tagged her case with the matter which was being examined by the court.
 
  Solicitor general Ranjit Kumar told the bench that the Centre was considering amending the law and allowing abortion up to 24 weeks. The law permits a woman to abort till 20 weeks if two registered practitioners express unanimous opinion that continuation of pregnancy would threaten the life of the mother, or the foetus has severe abnormalities. 
 
 Earlier, the apex court had allowed abortion in half a dozen cases of advanced pregnancy where the life of the expecting mother was in danger. On February 7, it came to the rescue of a 22-year-old woman, allowing her to abort her 23-week-old fetus. In January, the court allowed a woman from Mumbai to terminate her 24-week pregnancy after doctors said the fetus was malformed and also posed a risk to the mother’s life. In July last year, it had allowed a rape survivor’s distress plea to abort her 24-week pregnancy citing serious abnormalities with the fetus.
 
