JAIPUR: The   was adjourned on Wednesday following   between the ruling party and the   over deferring questions related to the   (SBC) quota and  . It was the ruling party’s senior member,   who first alleged that his questions were repeatedly being deferred.

 Speaker Kailash Meghwal initially adjourned the question hour at 11:09 am after Congress legislators walked into the well in protest and created chaos. However, when the house resumed at 12 pm, the ruling party members led by parliamentary affairs minister Rajendra Rathore disrupted the house proceedings even as the opposition members remained seated. The speaker finally adjourned the house for the day at 12:15 pm.
 
 Tiwari termed the development as an ‘unprecedented low’. “For the first-time ever, the house was adjourned for no reason. It was a conspiracy; a match-fixing between both the sides (Congress and BJP) to stop me from speaking in the house,” he charged. Tiwari was to participate in the debate on the governor’s address later in the day.
 
 The former BJP minister said he was to put uncomfortable questions to the state government. “I was to speak on the reservation issue, unemployment, corruption, land reforms, Padmavati row and ban on Tonga-races at Tejaji fair,” Tiwari said. He added, “Rajasthan government is responsible for the Padmavati controversy because its website first mentioned Padmavati as the lover of Alauddin Khilji. Since it was deleted from the website after my objection, Sanjay Leela Bhansali jumped in to include it in his movie script.”
 
 Refuting Tiwari’s charges, parliamentary affairs minister Rathore said, “He is our respected member and the government is not trying to stop him from speaking. His name was there in the list of speakers on Tuesday and Wednesday.”
 
 At the same time, Rathore said, “It was a shameful day in the history of Rajasthan assembly because of the opposition’s behaviour. SBC quota issue was raised without following the rules, just to disrupt the house. Since the matter is in court, it cannot be discussed in the assembly.”
 
 Leader of opposition Rameshwar Dudi accused the state government of running away from the assembly in an attempt to hide its failures. “Future of 4500 SBC candidates, who have been selected against different vacancies in the government, is at stake. It can lead to law and order problems in the state in coming days. We only wanted the government to clear its stand in the matter but it chose to create chaos and run away,” Dudi said.
 
 He claimed that since February 27, the opposition members’ 15 listed questions had been deferred. “Four questions were listed on Resurgent Rajasthan on Wednesday. Earlier, there were questions on MLA quarters’ land and tribal people’s matters. We were also to raise the bajri mining issue today,” Dudi said.
 
 Congress whip Govind Singh Dotasra said the government intended to wind up the budget session abruptly. “The strategy of concluding assembly sessions within 3-4 days that the BJP has followed in Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Haryana, is now being played in Rajasthan,” Dotasra said.
 
 
