Patna: The three recent photographs (selfie) of jailed former   went viral on social media and created a fresh controversy on Saturday before   administration recovered four cellphones, four sim cards and two chargers from the prison premises. The jail administration has lodged an FIR against four inmates in connection with the Saturday raids. Questions are being raised over the cellphone made available to the don inside the jail. 

 Shahabuddin is seen in a new look, wearing an overcoat with clean shave and head. Earlier, his photo with state minority welfare department minister   inside Siwan jail had gone viral in March 2016. 
 
 When contacted, principal secretary (home) Amir Subhani said the matter would be looked into.
 
 Shahabuddin, a four-time RJD MP from Siwan, is in Siwan jail after the   cancelled his bail granted by the Patna high court on September 7 in connection with the killing of the prime witness in the murder of two brothers by pouring acid on them. Shahabuddin had returned to Siwan from Bhagalpur jail in a convoy of at least 300 vehicles while crossing several toll plazas without paying taxes. That had created an uproar and Bihar government had been forced to appeal in the apex court for his bail cancellation.
 
 The sources said the petition filed by slain journalist Rajdeo Ranjan’s wife Asha Ranjan before the Supreme Court for shifting Shahabuddin to Tihar Jail in Delhi would come up for the final hearing on January 17. Asha, meanwhile, was threatened twice over phone recently to withdraw the petition against Shahabuddin. The Rajdeo murder case is being investigated by the CBI. Rajdeo was killed allegedly by the Shahabuddin‘s henchmen on May 13 last year. 
 
 A special jail court of Siwan on January 5 charged Shahabuddin in the Rajeev Roushan murder case. Rajeev was the brother and eyewitness of the murder of his two brothers, Girish and Satish Raj, in August 2004. The Siwan don is serving life term in the twin murder case. Rajeev was shot dead in Siwan three days before he was to depose in his brothers’ murder case in June 2014.
 
 When contacted, JD(U) spokesperson Neeraj Kumar said the matter should be thoroughly investigated.
 
 
