AMRITSAR: Will Punjab accept a non-Sikh Chief minister? As   and Akalis both target  , the attempt to play up the Sikh sentiment is apparent. At rally after rally Sukhbir Singh Badal attacks AAP as those who wear 'topi' and not the turban, those who are outsiders in Punjab. The Congress's   says Kejriwal is clueless about the Sikh ethos and is hand in glove with   extremists and alienated from mainstream Sikhs. So is there a latent Sikh sentiment that is slowly re-surfacing in this election?
 
 "Many devout and believing Sikhs are very anguished about the incidents of desecration of the   that have taken place recently," says Kiranjot Kaur, SGPC member and grand-daughter of one of the founders of the SGPC, Master Tara Singh. "The fact that the guilty have not been found or punished has created a great deal of resentment among the people about this government." 
 
 Last year in a series of incidents spreading across villages in Faridkot, Ferozepur and Tarn Taran districts, pages of the Granth Sahib were found torn and dumped near gurudwaras. 
  
 The Badal government was heavily criticized by devout Sikhs, as well as sections of the Sikh diaspora for not only not being able to track down the culprits but also firing on protestors. Two people were killed in the police firing. "The way the Badal government handled these desecration incidents has become a major poll issue," says Kiranjot. She also believes that Sikhs are increasingly differentiating between the Akali Dal and the Badal family and are anguished at the manner in which the Akali Dal has been captured by the Badal family. She says many Amritdhari Sikhs have decided not to vote this time for the Akali Dal. Since the Congress is synonymous with the 1984 riots, many are ready to opt for a third party or the AAP.
  
 "The Badals are misusing the authority of religious institutions for their own ends," says Kanwar Pal Singh of the Dal Khalsa, a radical Sikh organization which was banned in 1981 and now calls itself the Punjab's Hurriyat. "They have reduced the SGPC to playing second fiddle to the Akali Dal. They are misusing religion and doing nothing for the Sikh community. Sikhs are dissatisfied with the so-called party of the Sikhs--the Akali Dal." So are Sikh radicals now supporting AAP? "They are not radicals, they are victims who are supporting AAP, as they want to de-throne the Akali Dal this time," says Kanwar Pal Singh.
  
 Not all Sikh organisations share this view though. The Damdami Taksal, once headed by Sikh militant separatist Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale is firmly pro-Akali Dal. "We have to appreciate the development work done by Sukhbir Singh Badal," says Harnam Singh of the Damdami Taksal, "the desecration incidents have hurt us but the Badal government did bring the CBI to probe it." Harnam Singh says devout Sikhs can never vote for Kejriwal because there are many tainted leaders in AAP, the party did not keep its promises to the people of Delhi and importantly the party does not have a Sikh face.
  
 "We are worried at the way AAP treated  , the expulsion of Harinder Singh Khalsa, AAP MP and sacking of Suche Singh Chotepur. The question that troubles us is, does the AAP leadership want only Sikhs without a backbone?" asks Amritsar-based businessman Narendra Singh. He says while Sikhs admire Amarinder Singh for standing up to Delhi, many are worried that Kejriwal only wants a rubber stamp CM who he will control from Delhi. Prof. Jasbir Singh Sabar, an Amritsar based academic points out that many Sikhs did not like a recent poster of Kejriwal where the jharoo was shown as higher than the Harmandir Sahib. (Golden Temple). "We are worried that Kejriwal may not know about Sikh tenets," he says. An FIR has been lodged against AAP leader Ashish Khetan for his statement that the party manifesto was like the Granth Sahib.
  
 However a leading jathedar Gyani Keval Singh says Sikhs are becoming worried about the role of the RSS and the hold it has got in Punjab due to the Akali's alliance with the BJP. "There is a perception that RSS's influence in Sikh religious matters is growing. Sikh bhaichaara and naitikta (ethics) is important for us, yet we feel the RSS wants to deny us our separate identity and present a distorted picture of Sikhism as part of Hinduism." Keval Singh says the hold of the AAP in rural areas is increasing because of popular disenchantment with the Akali Dal, especially in the agrarian Malwa belt, a region which has been known for its anti-establishment politics.
  
 Kiranjot says the Akali vote bank has always held firm but this time there could be a change in voting patterns. The AAP local leadership says even though they have not projected a Sikh face, they have given the maximum number of tickets to Sikhs. "From Bhagwant Mann to HS Phoolka to Jarnail Singh, we have a range of Sikh faces," says Sanjay Singh, AAP Punjab in charge. AAP has also appointed a Sikh Gurpreet Singh Ghuggi as its Punjab convenor. 
  
 However some believe that if the AAP wins in Punjab, Sikh extremists will return to centre-stage as the AAP is not experienced enough to keep them at bay and does not understand SGPC politics. What about reports that AAP candidate Jarnail Singh was seen sharing the stage with Khalistan sympathisers in London? "This is nothing but propaganda spread by our opponents," says Sanjay Singh. "There are no Khalistanis with us. They are spreading these rumours because NRIs are supporting us."
  
 "The people of Punjab are very politically savvy," says Kiranjot. "They look at the party not at who is going to be CM. The population of Punjab is changing and there could come a day when Punjab gets a non-Sikh CM." The Sikh identity remains very powerful but as Punjab looks at life beyond the Akali Dal, many Sikhs are looking for new ways to express their identity.
 
