PUNE: As many as 10 policemen were either abused or attacked in different parts of the city since February 3.
The incidents took place in Manjri, Vishrantwadi, Khadki, Katraj and Sangvi. A total of 44 policemen, including four from traffic branch, have been attacked since January 1.
 
 The increasing number of such attacks has now become a matter of concern for the city police.
 
 Joint commissioner of police   on Monday said: “The tendency to argue with traffic police over paying fine in cases of traffic violations is highly condemnable. Such incidents do not take place in cities like Mum bai where motorists cooperate with cops and pay up when they are stopped for breaking traffic norms.“
 
 “It is important to nip such attacks in the bud. We are now invoking stringent provisions of the Indian Penal Code whenever such incidents take place. We are also taking preventive action against traffic violators after they are released on bail. Action is being taken against repeated offenders under the Maharashtra Prevention of Dangerous Activities Act,“ Ramanand said.
 
 In Manjri, a local politician abused four policemen, including assistant inspector  , in charge of the Manjri police chowkey , using filthy language and threatened them with dire consequences over the issue of recording his statement in a criminal case. The incident took place around 4 pm on Sunday .
 
 Londhe told TOI that around two months ago, the politician had entered a house in Manjri Budruk and attacked five people over some issue, following which a complaint was filed at the office of assistant commissioner of police (Wanowrie division). The complaint was referred to the chowkey for carrying out an inquiry and the politician was called for recording his statement. “The politician gave his statement in front of three people, but he refused to sign on the statement and picked up a dispute with the policemen,“ Londhe added.
 
 Londhe said, “In a fit of rage, the politician tore a copy of the statement and threw the pieces on the face of one of the policemen. He walked out and created a nuisance outside the chowkey .“ The politician was arrested later, he added.
 
 In Vishrantwadi, a policeman sustained injuries after three men attacked him with sticks near Bombay Sappers gate around 11pm on Friday .
 
 Sub-inspector   said, “As a preventive measure in view of municipal elections, we were patrolling the area when a policeman caught three men consuming liquor on the roadside. He asked them to go home and warned them not to create nuisance on the road, but the trio instead attacked him with sticks on his head and back causing internal injuries.“ All the three were arrested under relevant sections of IPC and Prohibition Act, he added.
 
 In Khadki, two men riding on a motorcycle in an inebriated condition attacked two policemen injuring one of them on the hand and cheek. This incident took place on Elphinstone Road in Khadki Bazaar area around 7 pm on Saturday .
 
 Assistant inspector   said the policemen were taking action against drunk driving when they signalled the duo to stop, but they picked up speed and fled.When they were nabbed after a brief chase, the duo picked up a fight with the policemen and attacked them. Both the culprits were later arrested.
 
 In another incident at Katraj chowk around 9pm on Friday , a traffic policeman was attacked after he caught a tempo driver and two others for illegally ferrying passengers.The trio were later arrested.
 
 In Sangvi, a 25-year-old man was arrested for abusing and threatening two policemen over a petty dispute. The incident took place at   around 11.30am on Monday .
 
