KOCHI: While 11 municipalities in the district are heading to be declared as   (ODF) before March 31,   is moving at a snail's pace in constructing or renovating the toilets.

 The   say the corporation can't be declared ODF in the stipulated time period due to the delay in taking up the works. As per the earlier survey, there are 1,950 beneficiaries in the corporation limit and they need to apply online.
 
 But corporation has received only 3,000 applications online so far. Most of these applicants already have one or two toilets and again apply for availing fund to construct a new one outside their house.
 
  had told the council on Saturday about the issue. “Many people register online.But we found many of them already have toilets in their houses. But they again apply for constructing toilets outside their houses and this delays the work,“ she said.
 
 Siju Thomas, district coordinator of the Suchitwa Mission said, “Municipaliti es can achieve the ODF target before the scheduled time but corporation can't do so as many undeserving persons applied for it. The challenge before the corporation is to identify the deserving persons. Koothattukulam and Maradu municipalities and grama panchayats in Ernakulam have already been declared as ODF while Muvattupuzha, Aluva and Eloor municipalities completed the work.
 
 Suchitwa Mission is providing the services of six persons to each local body for validation of the beneficiaries identified in the survey.
 
 Since the Kochi corporation could not complete even a single toilet work and the number of applicants are rising every day, the service of resource persons was raised to 24.
 
 The government gives Rs 16,400 for each beneficiary.At the review meeting held on Monday, education minister C Ravindranath, who is in charge of Ernakulam suggested to conduct a resurvey in Kochi corporation limit.As per the survey, the construction or renovation of total 3,514 toilets needs to be completed before March 31.So far local bodies have completed only 1,163 toilets.
 
