MUMBAI: The members of the  , more importantly those who make for the all-important finance committee of the cash-flushed body, were left seething on Thursday after a meeting - called to discuss important aspects related to administration and fund allotment - was "hijacked by Chief Executive Officer   and Chief Financial Officer  ", with the Supreme Court-appointed   (CoA) in the backdrop.

 Members of the finance committee, clearly miffed at the way the meeting went, said the CoA and Johri need to clarify once and for all if the committee is still in place or has been disbanded for reasons unknown to BCCI members as well as Supreme Court, which is overseeing the matter.
 
 "Everything was already pre-decided and the meeting was more about letting us know what decisions have been taken. If that's the case, then why this sham?" the members fumed.
 
 On the agenda for the meeting were 38 items ranging from various appointments to approval of funds, men and women player contracts, registration of the   land, one-time benefit funds, salary to staff, appointment of coaches and support staff and a lot more. But the meeting did not go beyond the 21st item on the agenda related to support staff.
 
 Jyotiraditya Scindia, the president of the   ( ), stormed out of the meeting midway, which was also attended by Haryana's   and Tamil Nadu's Kasi Viswanathan. Scindia happens to be the chairman of the BCCI's finance committee.
 
 In June, Scindia had pointedly asked the BCCI CEO to explain/clarify if the various committees of the Board still existed in the same capacities as they have been functioning for years now and he once again raised the subject at Thursday's meeting and the members said they did not want to come to such meetings "only to get 0insulted".
 
 "These are matters on which discussions have already been concluded and decisions have been taken. If that is the case, why call for this meeting?
 The Committee had some questions for which answers are needed, otherwise why have a mee ting at all? Decisions involving such huge financial transactions cannot be taken arbitrarily," the members of the finance committee said.
 
 
 
 
 The BCCI's stand (read: CoA, CEO & CFO) on the matter is entirely different. "This agenda is not new. And neither is the fact that the CoA had conveyed on June 18 that their decisions are not subject to ratification. They're only being shared for the purpose of transparency."
 
 BCCI officials say the entire issue happened because of the issues related to support staff, when the CoA finalised their salaries and contracts. "If everything needs to go through the finance committee, then a finance committee meeting needs to happen every week. You just can't walk in once in months and ask why such and such decision was taken, especially if you don't have the patience to listen to the answers," they say. 
 
