NEW  : For the second time this week, a major  , a high-rise building on  . The fire was started by a   on the 11th floor of the building on Wednesday morning. Nobody was injured in the incident.

 A senior fire officer said that five fire tenders were sent to the spot after a call about the fire at 8.30 am. When the   could not be brought under control even after half an hour, 12 more fire tenders were pushed into action. It took two hours to finally douse the inferno, though the cooling process continued for three more hours.
 
 All those working in the 26-floor building were stranded for over six hours after the building was sealed by the cops. “I was getting late for work, so booked a cab and paid four times more than normal to reach office only to discover that we were not being allowed into the building,” said Anil, who works in a printing press on the ground floor of Antriksh Bhawan.
 
 There are several offices on the complex. However, not many people were present because of Wednesday being a public holiday on account of Buddha Purnima. This also ensured the least panic and disturbance.
 
 Sudhir, who works in the stock broking office where the fire began, said that the flames had apparently been triggered by a short circuit in the air-conditioning system. He added that his son too had had a narrow escape after the door of the office caught fire, impeding his escape.
 
 This is not the first time that the tall, grey Antriksh Bhawan has been in the news because of a conflagration. Only a week ago, a fire had broken out in the rooftop Parikrama revolving restaurant located on the topmost floor of the building, prompting a speedy evacuation of staff and diners. Preliminary investigation has blamed the malfunctioning of electric equipment for the fire.
 
 Many witnesses claimed to have seen the initial flames in the vents of the rooftop restaurant. The staff members reacted quickly to the emergency and also helped to the firemen who arrived later to quickly get the situation under control.
 
