Things are looking rather sticky for   MLA Chandrakant ‘Babu’ Kavlekar, with the anti-corruption branch (ACB) snapping at his heels. The investigation against the CLP leader started in 2013 has been revived with great vigour since chief minister Manohar Parrikar’s re-election to the Panaji seat last month. It underlines Parrikar’s renewed assertiveness after five months spent fending off criticism for the BJP’s questionable retake of power.

 Kavlekar could well become the next politicianafter Churchill Alemaoto enjoy the comforts and modern amenities of the central jail at Colvale. The MLA’s bail application will come up before the court on Friday. GPCC president Shantaram Naik should prepare himself for the unspooling of more embarrassment. The news is meant to make national headlines. It is no small matter for a state’s leader of opposition to be arrested. It won’t make the Congress in Goa headless or leaderlessit has never been short of ‘leaders’ but it will push the party to the defensive at a time when it has the numbers in the House to pick on the regime’s failings.
 
 The CM has denied the squeeze on the   and the dredging of his assets and liabilities has anything to do with politics. “Why should it be a politically motivated case?” he asked. His statement would have carried some credibility if the timeline of police action was not so suspect. Investigations into Kavlekar’s holdings started in 2013, a year after Parrikar came to power on a full mandate. The ACB summoned him 25 times between 2013-14, when his factory and properties in Kerala were also inspected, the MLA told TOI. Nothing was heard of the case for four years till the FIR popped up some days ago, in notably altered political circumstances. The BJP no longer has a majority on its own, and the power plot remains ever fluid. The unpredictability of allies, more so those with Shylockian intent, would make any leader edgy.
 
 The BJP’s 2017 compromise on corruption has unmasked the party’s moral aura. The half dozen and more who had been named and shamed over graft in the past, now sit in the ruling camp. One of them has even been publicly pardoned as not really a scammer but a failed scammer of an “attempt to scam”. The selective shakedown of Kavlekar, or Atanasio ‘Babush’ Monserrate’s overnight hop-step-and-jump into Goa Forward, or the long rope extended to Dilip Parulekar in the beach-cleaning fraud sends out the blunt message: stay on the right side of the political fence, and protection is yours for the asking.
 
 Churchill’s convincing victory from Benaulim, despite his two months’ incarceration for alleged kickbacks in the Louis Berger case, says a lot about voter cynicism over corruption in Goa. When jobs are hard to come by, standards of higher education pathetic and ‘development’ is no more than a euphemism for politicians to hand out doles at taxpayers’ expense and skim off opaque government contracts, it’s not difficult to figure out why Kavlekar’s shiny white bungalow in Betul and his seemingly charmed life after he became an MLA have become symbols of aspiration, rather than envy, for his rural voters. A Class IX pass from the Dhangar community, the MLA has been elected four terms in a row from Quepem.
 
 In fact, the sabre rattling against Kavlekar is said to have caused some anxiety among allies, most of them with far more skeletons to hide than the Congress MLA. By the chief minister’s own admission, there were no takers for the education ministry at the time of distribution of portfolios. Apparently, there’s little to be gained from kickbacks on pencils, textbooks and school bags.
 
 “Politics is always about perception”. None knows this better than the saffron party, which has unleashed an army of trolls on social media to take on and shut down dissenting voices. In the prevailing climate, the move to relocate the Goa NGT bench from Pune to Delhi, and the caustic criticism of the Churchby a BJP MLA who got his history sorely wrongfor having the temerity to publish an article critical of the government, are nothing but signs of an insecure government.
 
 The writer is a senior journalist. Views expressed are personal.
 
