Nagpur: In a good news ahead of municipal elections, the Nagpur University (NU) has managed to get 55,000 voters, mainly students, enrolled during its ongoing drive. The figures are for Nagpur district alone while those for other three districts coming under the university are awaited.

 On Thursday, NU students welfare director Neehal Sheikh told TOI that state election commissioner JS Saharia applauded the varsity. “I had a video conference with him (Saharia) on Wednesday. He was happy to know that 55,000 were enrolled in during the drive. We would be gathering figures from Wardha, Gondia and Bhandara in a couple of days,” Sheikh said.
 
 Sheikh added that the drive was jointly launched by NU and the four district collector offices after a meeting with Saharia in May 2016. “The vice chancellor and I had met the state election commissioner six months ago. After this, a notification was issued and all affiliated colleges were asked to join the enrolment campaign,” he said.
 
 A campaign committee led by Head of Political Science department Mohan Kashikar, assistant professor of Mass Communication department Moiz Haq, NSS coordinator Bhau Daydar and Sheikh was formed to implement the campaign. Deputy district election officer Leena Falke was coordinator for Nagpur district.
 
 Haq had prepared a logo and an audio clip for circulation on WhatsApp groups. The colleges were told to print a logo on their prospectus or stick a monogram as part of the drive. A college ambassador (Principal), nodal officer/NSS programme officer and student ambassador (any active student) were appointed.
 
 The nodal officer was entrusted with procuring ‘Form 6’ (application for enrolment in electoral rolls) from the district election office and distributing among students. 
 
 The team was asked to reach out to students who had attained 18 years of age. The university had asked them to use innovative ways to convince citizens. Later, students formed small groups to spread out across colleges. Some of them had even maintained records.
 
 Student ambassador Namrata Singh, a BCom second-year student of LAD College, said, “Around 300 Form 6 were distributed by us in colleges. Out of this, 273 have been enrolled and their voter cards will come soon. We also helped people change their polling booth by getting them fill Form 7.”
 
 Sheikh said some colleges had organized camps to distribute voter cards. The form filling continued till the first week of December after starting in May. “Proposals have been invited from colleges on their work in the drive. Three best colleges would be awarded on January 25 when the university will observe ‘National Voters Day’.
 
 
