BHOPAL: A   was organised by transport association along with auto-rickshaw union and loading autos on Sunday. Over 100 vehicles participated in the rally, which began from Itwara and came to an end at Moti Masjid, where a memorandum was submitted.

 Talking to TOI, Ashok Malpani, president, joint commercial vehicle owner committee, said “We marched till Moti Masjid in which over 300 people participated. Our fight is against newly-enforced   and road tax collection, which was done quarterly. Now, they changed it to lifetime.”
 
 “We paid road tax on quarterly basis. But, RTO has changed and has asked us to pay it one-time. They have reduced the percentage by nominal rate. We have to pay lifetime tax at one time,” he said.
 
 “It is impossible to pay such a big amount on short notice. The order was released on January 14, and 15 was the last date for paying the amount. On January 13, we went to pay tax after arranging money, but computers there didn’t made up bill. The same thing was repeated on next day, but computers kept there didn’t made up bill. Next day, the computers kept there didn’t made up bill. Then on next day new law was enforced due to which later when we went to pay the whole amount they charged us with 10% penalty for paying late,” Malpani says.
 
 “It is unethical. How can we pay such a large amount. We wanted some days to arrange the amount. When we somehow managed to pay the tax, they are charging penalty,” he said.
 
 “No one in office is helpful. When we ask them to show us the rule, they say they are just following the new law. Even on Monday, auto-rickshaw union will take out a rally in the city. The department has increased the penalty, RTO and traffic police charge penalty of Rs 3,000 for almost everything,” he says.
 
 “RTO has asked us to get the   certificate renewed in every 6 months and if we failed to get it they we will be liable to pay penalty of Rs 3,000. Due to this we have to pay Rs 250 in every six months for this certificate renewal,” Malpani told TOI.
 
 Shailendra Shaili, spokesperson for committee, says “RTO has increased tax so much that for even vehicle whose worth is just Rs 2,000, we have to pay tax Rs 5,000. If they persist with it, we will have to sell our vehicle.”
 
 “If the state government fails to take action and our demands are not accepted, we will stage rallies across the state,” he said.
 
 
