Actress  , better known for her role of   on the small screen, was recently in Lucknow to promote her TV show. Born in Kanpur and brought up in Lucknow, Pankhuri visited her alma mater where she had studied for a few years. “Coming to Lucknow and not visiting my school and meeting my friends is like committing a sin,“ said the actor.
 
  Pankhury took time out from her hectic promotional schedule and made a quick trip to the La Martiniere Girls' College, where she had called her best friends too. The three girls roamed about the school giggling away all the while and feasted on ice creams to beat the heat as they played in the playground. “I was very excited before coming to the city and fortunately I got a chance to visit my school too. I remember the primary section and the playground where we use to enjoy the annual fete,“ said Pankhury , adding, “Reliving those days and meeting my school friends Kangana and Ritika is the best thing to happen on this trip.“ The actress is currently playing the lead in the show Kya Qusoor Hai Amala Ka? “Though she looks very innocent, she was very vivacious and mischievous in her school days,“ recalled Kangana, while talking of her celebrity friend. “We bunked classes, gave pet names to the teachers and did all the mischievous activities together,“ added Pankhury with a laugh.
  
  Pankhury may have moved out of Lucknow, yet a bit of the city still remains in her. “Lucknow ki meri sirf sweet memories hi hain as compared to the other cities I had lived in. Ab realise hota hai how much fun we used to have when we stayed here. I still remember visiting the Lucknow Zoo, Residency and Bada Imambara. Lucknow is so rich culturally and historically that one can't forget it and even now I have something of it in me,“ she said.
  
  
 
  
  Ironically, Pankhury's show Kya Qusoor Hai Amala Ka? show is a remake of a Turkish seriesFatmagul, which is not was on air on another channel. Ask her what made her say yes to a show which had a story that the audience was already familiar with and Pankhury said, “Our show has been remade with Indian sensibilities, Indian actors and in Indian locations in order to make it more relatable to the audience. If you've seen the dubbed version of it, which was on air on another channel, the value of relating the dialogues with the story is very less as their lips are saying something else and their words are something else. The main aim of the show is to reach those people who haven't seen Fatmagul. A serial showing the life of a gang rape victim has never been aired on Indian television. In a nutshell, it is an official adaptation made in India.“
  
  
 
