GAYA: The international tourist season 2017-18 has began with the arrival of Myanmar Airways International (MAI ) charted fligths in the last couple of days. The MAI is all set to operate 120 chartered   between Yangon and  . airport. Host of other operators have also geared up to meet the demand of visitors planning to visit Bodh Gaya.

 Gaya International Airport director   confirmed reports regarding the chartered flights being operated by MAI. The airlines would be ferrying tourists in   737 category of aircrafts.
 
 Besides the MAI, Myanmar National Airlines (MNA) would be operating five flights a week for the next six months. Sources said the airlines flying A-320 airbus on Yangon-Gaya route was likely to increase the frequency of its regular flights converting the five flight a week schedule into daily operation. The first flight of the MNA is scheduled to land on Monday.
 
 SriLankan Airways, earlier known as Mihir Lanka, is already operating a weekly flight on Colombo-Gaya route. Besides Buddhist pilgrims, NRIs working in middle east countries also travel by the SriLankan national passenger carrier.
 
 Thai Smile Airways, a Bangkok-based low cost air company would also be operating five flights a week. Sources said in the next few days Druk Air ( ) and Bhutan Airlines, a private passenger carrier also plans to introduce five flights a week on the Thimphu-Gaya route. If everything goes as per plan, the Thimphu-based air carriers would begin operation from November onwards.
 
  Airlines too is likely to operate chartered flights in 2017-18. As of now, available manpower at the Gaya International Airport has got only single shift capacity. Once all the airlines start operation, single shift work force would be inadequate to cater to handle the tourist footfall.
 
 Conceding that there were manpower constraints at the Gaya airport, the director said, “More CISF personnel would be required if double shift work was introduced.”
 
 “As far as Airports Authority of India (AAI) workers are concerned, he would persuade the regular staff to work extra hours,” said Kumar. There was provision for overtime payment for extra work of AAI employees. The AAI employees, in any case have a relaxed work schedule in the April-September period when only one AI flight operates on the Gaya-Delhi route on a daily basis.
 
