BENGALURU: More than a month after the   directed the   (BDA) to register a site in BTM Layout in favour of Infosys employee Anup Kumar P, the agency is yet to comply with the order. Besides Anup, 43 others who bought   in BDA auctions are also waiting for them to be registered in their names.

 These petitioners waged a legal battle against BDA and the government after they were denied possession of sites they had purchased in survey numbers 50, 51, and 52 in BTM Layout between 1985 and 2001. “I approached BDA after the court's decision and repeatedly reminded them of the verdict.But I am still unsure when I would get possession,“ said Anup, a software architect.
 
 The Supreme Court had on August 9 ordered BDA to immediately register the 30ftX50ft site in BTM Layout, which Anup had bought in the auction from BDA in 2003. He had paid the full sale consideration of Rs 24.41 lakh. On August 24, the apex court passed another order directing the BDA to hand over possession of sites to 43 buyers along with Anup.
 
 In the same judgment, the court asked the BDA to develop a road that links the sites in question with the adjacent NAL Layout developed by a resident association. However, the NAL Layout Residents Association, is still waiting for the road.
 
 “The   order seems to have fallen on deaf ears. We are thinking of taking a delegation to the BDA, and if required, meet Bengaluru development minister K J George to remind him of the court's order,“ said C Ishrad-ul-Haque, secretary , NAL Layout Residents Association.
 
 A TOI report had highlighted the Supreme Court's August 9 order, and responding to a related query , BDA commissioner Rakesh Singh had said the agency would take steps to comply with the verdict.
 
 Shockingly , over 50 unauthorized huts had come up on the sites in the interim period. “The encroach ments seemed to be the result of land sharks joining hands with the original land owners,“ said Surendra Kudva, a petitoner waiting for the BDA site. The BDA, however, cleared the illegal constructions last week.
 
 P N Nayak, BDA engineer member, said procedural issues need to be addressed before the sites are registered in the buyers' names.“We are planning to develop a layout, without which there is no point in handing over the possession.The process will take at least three months,“ said Nayak.
 
