This weekend, Gurgaon’s Sunday morning was far from regular. The   inaugurated   in the Millennium City to get Gurgaonwallahs out on the streets and pumped with energy. The start was a little lazy, though, as there was light rain in the early hours, but as the skies cleared, residents came out in force to enjoy the first Sunday of their soon-to-be weekly fitness routine.

  
  Residents of Gurgaon enjoyed a game of Tug of War too! (BCCL/Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
 
 The morning started with a zumba session by the members of Anytime Fitness, which was followed by another zumba session by YHC Fitness. The members of Arya Power Yoga also conducted a yoga class simultaneously. “I moved here from Bangalore six months back, and this is the first time I’m attending an event like this in Gurgaon. I’m happy that now I can go somewhere on a Sunday to take up any activity of my choice,” said Mudita Verma, a resident of Sector 14. Aishwarya Kishore, a resident of Jalvayu Vihar, added, “This is one place where the entire family can come together and enjoy themselves. My son played volleyball, my husband and I attended the yoga session, so it was really nice. We hope to come back next Sunday as well.”
 
  
  Stand-up comic Anirban Dasgupta also performed at Happy Streets
 
 
 
 The event was not just high on working out. Stand-up comic Anirban Dasgupta too did a routine with “clean jokes” which was suitable for all age groups. “I don’t even remember the last time I woke up so early for anything. This was the first time I was performing in an open space, but it was fun. I hope we can have something like this in Mumbai as well,” said the Mumbai-based comic.
 
  
  Not just humans, but their canine friends also had fun at Happy Streets (BCCL/Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
 
 While many enjoyed the zumba and yoga sessions, the residents also got to learn about fire safety and healthy eating from students. The students of Lotus Valley International School, Gurgaon, performed a street play on healthy eating and the need to have a balanced diet. The students of Amity University, Gurgaon, performed a play on fire safety. “It was a new experience for us to perform here. We have performed at many places, but this was the first time when we were performing at a place like this. We plan to come here with more such plays now,” said Deepak Bajaj, founder of the dramatics society of the university.
 
 
