MUMBAI: Once a quaint suburb, with leafy lanes and old bungalows,   ward has slowly turned into an overcrowded urban jungle, with probably the costliest real estate in the eastern suburbs. All thanks to the presence of public sector undertaking such BPCL, educations institutions and also the Eastern Freeway.

 However, unchecked growth has brought a host of problems, such as over-crowding on streets, and put severe pressure on the infrastructure.
 
 Activist   said, “There has been only real estate development, but not real development such as pavements, roads and drainage system.” For instance, the Central Avenue, which stretches fr-om   to  , was once a beautiful road. “The paveme-nts are broken and road taken over by cars,” said Chembur resident Sangeeta Nair.
 
 Similarly, Tilak nagar, once a middle class Mhada colony, is now home to highrises. This has led to a huge water problem. Rajan Palani, chairman of Revathi Charitable Trust in Tilak Nagar, said, “Earlier each building had 36 tenements. They have given way to high-rises of 300 houses. However, the amount of water being supplied to the buildings has remained the same.”
 
 And then there’s the hawkers’ menace. “They have occupied every inch of the Chembur station road,” said a shopkeeper on N G Acharya Road. 
 
 Sharma also pointed out how mono rail pillars have eaten into the roads, making driving difficult. “For instance, the narrow carriageway of RC Marg has shrunk. Tankers heading towards Mahul make the stretch dangerous for pedestrians.” Poor roads is a major issue across the ward, said NK Pratapan, general secretary of Pestom Sagar Citizen Forum. “Also unauthorized structures are coming up in the ward,” he said. LV Rangnathan of Chembur Resident Welfare Association added, “The service road of Eastern Express Highway being opened as a by-pass has aggravated air and sound pollution.” 
 
 As the suburb grows at a maddening speed, the locals hope for a method in madness: better civic infrastructure along with the real estate development to make them feel at home.
 
 
