BHUBANESWAR: Senior BJD leaders from across the state on Friday met party president and chief minister   at the latter's residence to decide the strategy for the election of the zilla parishad (ZP) presidents scheduled for Sunday. 

 To keep the flock together, the party has also issued whip to its newly-elected ZP zone candidates to vote in line with party decision. "Violation of party whip would amount to anti-party activities and action would be initiated according to the Odisha ZP Act, 1991," said the whip.
 
 The leaders were also told about the recent amendment to the ZP Act and instructed to engage agents during president elections, party sources said. 
 
 Discussions were also held to finalize names of party's nominees for the posts of president in districts where it has got clear majority. In many districts, president nominees are selected unanimously. 
 
 "In case of multiple choices, we have left it to the party president to select appropriate candidate," BJD vice-president   told reporters here. The ruling party, which faced a rout in the recently-concluded rural elections in the western Odisha pockets, exuded confidence of forming the ZP councils in 17 districts.
 
 The party is claiming to form ZP councils in Angul, Balasore, Bhadrak, Boudh, Cuttack, Dhenkanal, Ganjam, Jagatsinghpur, Jajpur, Kandhamal, Kendrapada, Keonjhar, Koraput, Khurda, Nayagarh, Nuapada and Puri.
 
 While the   got the numbers to form the council in Jharsuguda district,   has the numbers in Kalahandi, Bargarh, Balangir, Sambalpur, Sonepur, Deogarh, Malkangiri, Mayurbhanj. Since the BJD and the Congress has no candidate from Scheduled Caste community for which the president post is reserved in Gajapati, the BJP is expected bag the post in the district. The picture in Rayagada, Sundargarh and Nabarangapur is still not clear as no party has got the magic number. According to official sources, all three parties are in touch with winning candidates of other parties to form the councils.
 
 Asked whether the BJD is looking to seek support of other parties in these three districts, party spokesperson   said it has been left to the district-level leaders to take a call on the matter.
 
 
