COIMBATORE: With a  , Karnan began chopping down 250 withered coconut trees on his farmland at   near Coimbatore. He had planted them 25 years ago, the farmer told TOI. “These trees were like my children,” he said.

 Despite the drought and monsoon failures in the last two years, Karnan had tried his best to save the trees by spending Rs 5 lakh on a new borewell and another Rs 2 lakh for purchasing water for irrigation. However, the seven-acre farmland turned barren as he watched helplessly.
 
 Nearly 70,000 farmers in   share the same plight. As a result, almost all coconut trees in and around the village have been chopped down.
 
 R Sivalingam, who owns about five acres of farmland, has already sold a part of the land to a relative to set up a steel plant. “I have no other choice. I have taken loans worth Rs 12 lakh, which I need to repay,” he said. “Though I dug a 1,200 feet deep borewell, I could not find water. That is when I lost hope and decided to cut down all trees,” he said.
 
 Farmers here remember a time when each tree yielded 200 coconuts per year. “We began facing adversity after the rain started to fail,” Sivalingam said.
 
 In 2015, he was awarded by several organisations for undertaking organic farming and for not using chemical fertilisers, Karnan recollected. “The irony is that this year, I had to chop down all my trees,” he said. When asked if he will also sell the land, Karnan said he will never do that. “I have decided to wait for the monsoon rain. If it rains, I will plant coconut saplings again. If it doesn’t , I will sow other crops,” he said.
 
 Govindraj, another farmer, said farmers in the area have not approached government officials seeking drought relief. “None of the government officials approached us or inspected our farms,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, tahsildhar of Udumalpettai said half of the 18,000 hectares of land under coconut cultivation has dried up. “We surveyed and inspected all the farmlands by January and also disbursed compensation at the rate of Rs 18,000 per hectare,” he said.
 
