NOIDA: As the state gears up for   in February,   residents say they do not want to fall prey to hollow poll promises once again that leave UP’s commerce hub high and dry. 

 The  ,   and residents are all ready with questions for the ruling Samajwadi Party as well as representatives of other parties. According to the residents, they want answers on the unresolved issue of freehold properties, promises on the overhaul of the district’s infrastructure and other civic issues faced by the people. 
 
 “In its last election manifesto, the ruling SP promised freehold property for Noida residents. The five-year tenure of the government is coming to a close, yet the promise has not been fulfilled,” said N P Singh, president, Federation of Noida Residents Welfare Associations ( ). 
 
 There has been a long-pending demand for freehold properties for the Noida residents, who can buy a property only on a 99-year lease. 
 
 “How long do political parties want to exploit the common man?” Singh asked.
 
 Several residents are also of the view that they have not been able to reap the benefits of the rich infrastructure in the district due to their unaddressed civic grievances. 
 
 “Construction of underpasses or elevated roads alone does not make a city smart. Despite exponential growth in the past three decades, Noida lacks basic amenities such as a dedicated garbage disposal system and a proper drainage system. Encroachment and traffic snarls add on to the civic woes,” said Amit Gupta, a resident of Sector 77.
 
 This election, the candidates are expected to tap on a fresh vote bank in newer sectors such as sectors 71, 72, 75, 76, 77, 78, 119, 120, 121, and 122. 
 
 Several residents from these areas spoke to TOI and said they would like to see an infrastructure overhaul including necessary U-turns, local markets, community centres, hospitals and Metro connectivity.
 
 “During campaigning, politicians promise the moon but forget the promises after winning. Every residential sector should be provided with medical services and sports facilities within a maximum distance of 2 km,” said S K Jain, president, Sector-18 market association.
 
 
