KOLKATA/JALPAIGURI: The chief adoption officer of Bimala Sishu Griha, a government-approved adoption centre in Jalpaiguri, was arrested on Sunday, a day after the CID arrested the director of the institute.

  was arrested on Saturday. On Sunday, after the arrest of Sonali Mondal, the CID said it has established that the baby racket has spread its tentacles much beyond Bengal — Europe, North America, and other parts of Asia.
 
 What has further worried the investigators is the involvement of a local   leader, Juhi Chakraborty, who allegedly helped the institute’s director gather funds and get necessary permissions from Delhi. The BJP leader, currently in Delhi, accepted that the director frequented her office for assistance but strongly denied having any role in the racket. CID officers, however, said she has been named in the FIR.
 
 So far, the agency has confirmed four cases of children between six months and 14 years being sold to top bidders who brought the victims to Kolkata and sent them to the US, France, Singapore and Spain. While the investigators believe the child sold in the US fetched around Rs 10 lakh, a France-based couple paid a few more lakhs for another child, they said.
 
 Chakraborty is a principal of a local government primary school. In July last year, the   had found irregularities at the home and lodged a complaint, following which 14 babies were recovered and relocated to three different homes fearing the gang might try to “remove” them to escape trouble. According to a CID source, more arrests are likely to follow.
 
 A source said the CID had camped in Jalpaiguri for over four days to go through the home’s accounts and phone calls before conducting the raid. “This one seems bigger than the Baduria-Kolkata gang that was busted in November. The home has been operational since 1986 and there have been at least 17 baby trafficking cases in the past couple of months that confirm the presence of the racket across Bengal,” a source said.
 
 A member of the CID’s special operations group said they have also been keeping a close watch on two other homes — Ashray, a short-stay home for women and children, and North Bengal People’s Development Centre.
 
 
