NEW DELHI: Sending a strong message against collusion of education directorate officials with private schools, the   on Monday ordered the suspension of a regional director for “deliberate misrepresentation of facts in the affidavit filed in the Delhi high court in the matter of Mirambika Free Progress School“.

 The government also ordered a vigilance inquiry against officers responsible for filing the affidavit and decided to withdraw the document. It will file a fresh affidavit before the next date of hearing, February 9, 2017.
 
 The government said its directorate of education (DoE) had wrongly stated that recognition to the school was given in 1988, whereas it was actually granted in 1989. The difference is crucial as Mirambika had moved from its location in   to new premises in Ashram, near Lajpat Nagar, in December 1988.
 
 The school shifted back to Aurobindo Ashram in April 2015, a move that led to protests.If DoE recognised the school in 1989, it would mean that the recognition was granted on the basis of the infrastructure at Lajpat Nagar, and not at the present premises.
 
 Pranjal Jauhar, chairperson of Sri Aurobindo Education Society (SAES) that runs the school, said, “I don't think facts were misrepresented.But we will find out the details from DoE tomorrow.“ According to a senior government official, although two inspections of the school were undertaken by the government, “it was just the infrastructure that was looked into. However, last month after studying the original documents of the land and recognition of SAES, it came to light that there has been a serious misrepresentation of facts at the Delhi high court by DoE via an affidavit filed on June 29, 2016. A case was filed by parents of students after the school was shifted from its building on 9.84 acres, from where it has been functioning since December 1988, to another building in Aurobindo Ashram in April 2015.“
 
 The DoE filed its affidavit on June 29, 2016. According to the order signed by deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, after “carefully perusing the files related to this case it seems apparent that the inspection report and the affidavit filed by the DoE in the court are a deliberate misrepresentation of facts.It is, therefore, necessary to take strong action on this count“.
 
 Apart from physical inspection and document inspection, the minister ordered withdrawing of the affidavit and filing a new one by February 8. Sisodia also ordered immediate action on the complaints by parents “if they are found true.“
 
 DoE's affidavit had stated that “the school got its recognition in the year 1988, when it was functioning from the present premises“, whereas Mirambika was granted recognition by DoE in January 1989 after it had shifted to its new building in 1988. The affidavit also mentioned that the school was functioning from the Aurobindo Ashram building for which the recognition was granted in 1998 and that the school was shifted to the new building on 9.84 acres when the society applied for upgradation of the school to Class X, which was granted in 1993.
 
 However DoE's own inspection report of 1988 stated that the school was running from its own building and that it had a lease deed of the land allotted by DDA. An earlier (August 1988) inspection's checklist by the directorate also stated that the “school is currently running in Aurobindo Ashram but is likely to be shifted to its own building by October 1988“ and that “the society does not require funds to purchase land for the school as it already has land from DDA.“
 
 On April 14, 2015, the children were shifted out of the school's campus near Lajpat Nagar, allegedly without any prior notice or explanation, and relocated to the premises of the neighboring residential Sri Aurobindo Ashram.
 
