The memories that students make while in college are ones that they cherish and fondly carry with themselves for the rest of their lives. The friendships made, the experiences shared and everything in between have the perfect mix of fun and camaraderie. But with all that comes the rigours of college — attendance, studies, examinations and teachers — all stark reminders of why we are in college in the first place. In Bengaluru, there are   that are known to be liberal, but there are also colleges that have peculiar   for students that often leave them baffled. 
 got in touch with students from city colleges such as  ,  ,  ,  , Jain and many more, and compiled a list of bizarre rules that stand out when it comes to making college life difficult (and in some cases, heavy on their wallets) for students…

 
 
 A fine of Rs. 5,000 if a student does not attend the first week of college, and especially the first day.
 
 
 
 Students in their first year are not allowed to volunteer for college fests, cultural events or any other extra-curricular activities that are organized by the college.
 
 
 
 A fine of `200 for those students who miss punching in/out their attendance in the biometric scan. Also, if the attendance is even 0.5% less than the mandatory requirement, students are subject to fine or getting their examination hall tickets withheld by the college.
 
 
 
 If a student, especially those that reside in the campus hostels, arrives even a day late after vacations, `1,000 is collected from them by hostel authorities.
 
 
 
 No sleeveless tops/yoga pants for girls, and no T-shirts/flipflops for boys. Also, no whacky hairdos or hair colour for students of any gender.
 
 
 
 Only cellphones that don’t have a camera are allowed to be carried by students within the college premises. Don’t have a dumbphone? Then don’t take your phone to college.
 
 
 
 Only clapping and mild cheering are allowed in auditoriums. Hollering or hooting is a strict no-no. If caught, identity cards can be taken away.
 
 
 
 If a student is caught eating in class (say chocolates or biscuits), he/she must spend money from their own pocket and buy the same for the rest of the class.
 
 
 
 No carrying edible items or eating them in the lift. Students are also not allowed to bring edibles in large quantities or cut cake as part of birthday celebrations.
 
