NAGPUR: In a setback to ruling BJP in NMC, one of its two alliance partners--   led by former minister Sulekha Kumbhare-- has fielded five candidates on its own alleging injustice to it by saffron party.   has convened a meeting on Monday to decide whether to continue the alliance with BJP in the civic elections.

 Meanwhile, chief minister Devendra Fadnavis and union minister   have started fire-fighting exercise with many in the BJP upset with tickets distribution.
 
 Kumbhare told TOI, Gadkari had assured ticket to BREM’s two term corporator Rahul Telang from North Nagpur. That promise too was not fulfilled. “We were expecting at least five seats. We came to know about two seats given to us by the BJP at around 2pm on the last date of filing nomination. It is an injustice to BREM. We have strong presence in North Nagpur and in other parts of the city. Fearing this, we had filed nominations of five candidates-- Pragati Nagrale and   from North Nagpur, Vijay Dahekar from Central Nagpur, Sudhir Landge from South Nagpur and Bhimrao Puse from West Nagpur,” she said.
 
 Telang has filed nomination from another party- RPI (khoripa). BREM has fielded one of its five candidates against Telang. Telang told TOI he had a great respect towards Kumbhare and would always remain a well-wisher of BREM. “I decided not to contest from BREM when the party decided to align with BJP,” he said. Kumbhare said since Telang was not contesting, it had fielded another party worker.
 
 Kumbhare said BREM had applied for a symbol. “BREM’s symbol was kite but now it is registered by MIM. All our candidates will contest on a common symbol,” she said.
 
 BJP has been facing strong fight within the party. After resting 32 sitting corporators, some including Anil Dhawde, Anita Wankhede, Ramdas Gudadhe joined   while Meena Tidke joined NCP. Gudadhe’s wife Rupali is contesting from Sena.
 
 Series of resignations from the party has continued. On Sunday, vice-president of BJP North Nagpur Umesh Mendhe also quit. “BJP workers are upset with irregularities in tickets distribution. BJP has denied tickets to true party workers,” he alleged. BJP city general secretary Kishor Palandurkar and president of Ward-56 Tukaram Lambate resigned on February 3. City vice-president Bhushan Dadwe also registered strong opposition and even alleged casteism in party. Similarly, BJP leader from West Nagpur and former chairperson of Dharampeth Zone Shashikala Wade left BJP and joined Congress alleging injustice towards dalits in BJP. BJP leader from East Nagpur Ishwar Dhenge alleged casteism by East Nagpur MLA Krishna Khopde.
 
 Fadnavis, Gadkari and BJP office bearers began talking to those who have filed nomination as independents. Fadnavis is likely to arrive be in city on Monday and talk with some prominent BJP leaders- Gopal Bohare, Baba Maind etc for withdrawl on February 7.
 
 
