BENGALURU: A host of foreign companies will be wooing Indian government agencies and firms at   2017, keen to get a large piece of the marketshare in the blooming defence and aerospace sectors. 

 From electronic warfare systems for Light Combat Aircraft (LCA) Tejas to sub-systems for the weaponised Advanced Light Helicopter, from air ambulance to precision weapon systems, companies from across the globe have booked slots in the 11th edition of Aero India. The participation of a large international contingent indicates that the hopes of the organisers to see a marked increase in business this edition compared to the previous ones, are not unfounded.
 
 Dassault, Boeing, Airbus, Saab,   and Thales are among some of the international companies that will be seen at what is being touted as Asia’s premier  .
 
 United Kingdom’s BAE Systems, which was recently awarded a contract by the US Department of Defence to provide 145 ultra-lightweight howitzers to the Indian Army through a foreign military sale between the Indian and US governments, said that it foresaw many other opportunities in India. BAE will bring its   and its Advanced Precision Kill Weapon System (APKWS) among other systems to Aero India 2017.
 
 India director of BAE Systems Alistair Castle said, “The Make-in-India initiative is the cornerstone of our strategy, and Aero India is an excellent platform for us to engage all our customers, and explore new partnerships, in addition to strengthening our ties with firms such as HAL and Mahindra.”
 
 Dassault’s Falcon 8X, which was recently certified, will debut at Aero India, while Swedish firm Saab, which has expressed interest in multiple projects including two aircraft procurement programmes, is bringing in as many as 11 products.
 
 Thales, another French firm, will offer its expertise to help expand the India’s industrial defence base. “Our association with India dates back to 1953. Besides giving a boost to the Make-in-India initiative, we will also look to export from India. Events like Aero India help us further our objectives by giving us a platform to engage with all the key stakeholders, and allowing us to bring cutting-edge solutions to the Indian market,” said Pascale Sourisse, Thales’ senior executive vice-president for international development.
 
 Rocket systems, sonars, surveillance and fire control radars are among the technologies that Thales will showcase in Bengaluru.
 
 Airbus, which has several tie-ups with Indian firms, besides having a large presence in the country’s commercial aviation sector, will have its dedicated helicopter ambulance on static display at the event. Airbus India president and managing director Pierre de Bausset said that the firm’s business in India results in procurement worth $500 million (approximately Rs 3,400 crore) annually from India. The firm also provides employment to 6,000 people in the country.
 
 
