The Festival of Colours is here again. From herbal gulaals 
to the perfect festive playlist — CT serves you a straight-up   guide! Take note
 
 Our city students, have already started celebrating Holi on campuses. The students of   (RBU) put up 
 cultural events, smeared each other with colours and kickstarted the vibrant festival on Thursday
 
  
  
 
 You just can’t have a fun-filled Holi party unless you pull a   in Balam pichkari and throw few friends into a small pool, filled to the brim with coloured water. But be careful not to hurt anyone and if anyone doesn’t take it in the right spirit, pull out the trump card — bura na mano Holi hai!
 
  
  
 
 Discard your boring pistons and stock up on interesting pichkaris in the shape of guns. Don’t let your skincare regime take a backseat and opt for organic or herbal colours. These are safe options that don’t compromise on the fun!
 
  
  
 
 What’s Holi without good food? And since it’s a traditional festival, why not add a bit of desi flavour to it? Spicy chaat, dahi vadas, barfis, pakoras, chocolate muffins and gulab jamuns are some amazing Holi party food to lay out. But the fun is incomplete without the Holi staple thandai laced with bhang
 
  
  
 
 Have an invitation to the biggest Holi party in town and baffled by the eternal dilemma of what to wear? Worry not! There’s always that white tee you thought wasn’t good enough for any occasion to fall back on. You cannot show the vibrancy of colours unless you slip into a white tee or the semi-traditional, slouchy short kurta. Team it up with blue shorts and colourful bandanas and you’re ready to rock the party!
  
  
 
 The stylish eye gear isn’t reserved for holidays any more. Choose one in a bright colour that’s just perfect for Holi. From mirror aviators to vintage rounders to quirky ones — Holi is the time to show off colourful shades and save your eyes from harmful colours while at it
 
  
  
 
 
 Besides colours, if there’s one thing that’s indispensable when it comes to Holi, it’s coconut oil. After your hair and skin have been drenched in toxic colours, removing all of it is quite a pain. Before you shower, massage your skin with generous amounts of coconut 
 oil and wipe it off with cotton wool 
  
  
 
 
 There’s no dearth of Holi-themed songs in  . Almost every movie has one and this is the time to sway to them like no one’s watching! From Balam pichkari to the good ’ol Rang barse to new favourites Badri ki dulhaniya — if you are going to down bhang by the glasses and move to peppy 
 numbers — you might as well add groovy Holi songs to your playlist!
  
  
 
 
 
 
