KOCHI: The project to provide prophylaxis or preventive treatment for   patients at the   (HTC) at Aluva has been stopped due to fund shortage. Had Ernakulum district, which has been able to spend only less than 25% of its plan fund till now, allotted Rs 40 lakh, the project to provide prophylaxis treatment to at least 100 patients could have been continued. 

 During the last fiscal,  , under which the HTC is functioning, had allotted Rs 45 lakh for providing prophylaxis treatment. "We had given prophylaxis treatment to 11 registered children on an experimental basis. As the experiment became a success, parents of many children came up with requests for enrolling in the preventive treatment. But we find it very difficult to go ahead with the project due to fund shortage," said Dr  , medical officer-in-charge of the HTC. "We had been administering prophylactic or preventive dose of blood clotting factor
 
 concentrate (CFC) on the children for more than a year. It had made their lives much easier," he said.
 
 "Before giving the prophylaxis treatment, the kids would bleed uncontrollably for up to 40 times a year. This has come down to 2-5 times after we started administering preventive dose," said Dr N Vijayakumar.
 
 It was almost impossible for the kids to attend school. "My son, aged 6, used to miss classes up to two-three months. After we began the treatment, the absenteeism has come down to five or six days, "said Lajitha, mother of a kid undergoing treatment at HTC Aluva.
 
 When TOI brought the issue to the attention of the district panchayat authorities, they offered to take action. "We would be considering the request for providing Rs 40 lakh more for resuming the prophylaxis treatment. We would try to allocate money from the plan fund," said Abdul Muthalib, vice-president, Ernakuam district panchayat. "We have allocated Rs 20 lakh for the project. We are the only local body in the country to provide support to haemophilia patients," he said.
 
 The HTC at Aluva, the only haemophilia treatment centre in the state where more than1,600 patients are undergoing treatment has been facing many shortcomings. The HTC doesn't have an escalator for the patients to go up the first floor, where the physiotherapy centre has been functioning. "In the absence of an escalator, many mothers take their children aged 14 and 15 in their arms. The children would develop stiff joints at the age of 3-4 due to frequent bleeding," Dr Vijayakumar said.
 
