HYDERABAD: After Delhi and  , the   circle ­ it includes Hyderabad ­ received the highest number of spam calls between May 2016 and 2017. A total of 9.9 crore calls were received by AP circle.

 This has come to light through a recent survey by   across 23 telecom circles in the country. Delhi and Maharashtra circles recorded 11 crore and 10.6 crore such calls respectively.
 
 Truecaller's research showed that users from this area (AP circle) received over 22 spam calls a month, which translates into one call a day .The mobile app has over 250 million users globally. “The study found that there are common categories that tie all these spam calls together.These would be operator, debt collection, bank, political, health, spam, telemarketing, financial service, scam and insurance,“ the study noted.
 
 According to city-based consumer rights' activist  , these spam calls are primarily made by 'annoying' salesmen “who think that their pestering power will sell their products“. He appealed to the   to immediately take these miscreants to task.
 
 Incidentally, TRAI data shows there are 8,53,86,248 mobile subscribers in AP circle, more than 50 per cent of whom are from Hyderabad.
 
 “With service providers blacklisting mobile numbers of many of these spammers, they have now taken to landline numbers to make these bulk calls. On an average, people in the city receive at least three such calls,“ he said. While TRAI introduced a new application in June called DND (Do Not Disturb) 2.0 which, if downloaded, can save a mobile user from fielding such unsolicited spam calls, it has failed to achieve its objective. Since its launch, only 483 people from across India have made use of the app, reason being technical glitches in installing it.
 
 Harping on this failure of the authorities, consumer rights activist   said, “If the government wants consumers to take to such fora to raise complaints, it must first make them user-friendly. If not, the entire application is nothing more than an exercise in futility.“
 
