JHARGRAM: Chief minister   on Tuesday put herself in the forefront of the looming political battle in Bengal reminding people that Bengal’s ethos has always been about humanity and secularism. “Ram ke pujo korteh giye, kauke danga bah kutsa korteh hoyeni (to pay obeisance to Rama, one doesn’t have to resort to riots and misinformation),” the chief minister said.

 BJP and its affiliate organizations are set to hit the streets from Wednesday for the week-long Ram Navami celebrations that threaten to challenge political status quo in Bengal. 
 
 “If you have faith in me, always remember that I never do anything which is against the interest of the people. I am always with the people,” she said. “Tomorrow is Ram Navami. The day heralds the death of Ravana — the evil spirit. It also signifies the good prevailing over evil,” she said to a packed audience at the   grounds.
 
 “To achieve good one doesn’t have to resort to riots, misinformation (read communal rumours) and create divisions among Hindu, Muslim, Sikh, and Christian. This has never been our ethos. Instead it has always been about secularism and humanity. We should hold on to our roots. This is what which defines a district, a state and a nation,” she said.
 
 “Always remember that Rama had killed Ravana because he was evil. We have to kill Ravana who wants to create division among the people and engineer riots,” she said. “Let our unity win. Always stay united and never pay heed to any kind of rumour, do not be scared of threats. Maintain peace and harmony,” she said.
 
 Mamata also underlined the religious significance of the day when she declared Jhargram, Bengal’s newest — the 22nd — district. “Today is Ma Annapurna Puja. Does a mother discriminate between her own children?” she asked. Mamata also switched to Sanskrit to chant a sloka — a salutation to Durga (Annapurna is also believed to be an incarnation of Parvati).
 
 She asked chief secretary   and additional secretary (home) Moloy De to step forward to announce that the state would provide five acres in Jhargram to   for an educational institution. 
 
 She alsosaid, “Even a few years ago, people were scared to tread these parts. But people here withstood that. Let’s celebrate April 4 as Jhargram Diwas.”
 
