PATNA: The   ( ) has decided to hire a private agency for   appearing for the Intermediate examination in 2018. The decision was taken in the wake of errors made by the students while filing the registration form from cyber cafes for the 2017 exam.

 BSEB chairman Anand Kishor said the board will open 189 registration centres across the state through the private agency to help students fill the form online. “Principals of colleges and schools concerned have been asked to submit the list of students to data centres from July 15 to July 25. The board will send the list of candidates to the private agency from July 26 to August 5,” Kishor added.
 
 Training programme: Central Ground Water Board (CGWB) regional director A K Agrawal on Monday said the Indo-Gangetic Plain serves as the “groundwater bank” of the country as it has got the best aquifers in the world. He, however, cautioned the people against its over-exploitation as it would adversely affect its quality.
 
 Addressing a five-day training programme on ‘Groundwater development and management’, organised by CGWB (mid-eastern region) here, Agrawal pleaded for better management of groundwater resources in view of the imminent water crisis in future. “People should stop indiscriminate exploitation of groundwater to arrest the declining water table and also to protect groundwater from being contaminated,” he said. Agrawal also called for mass awareness about proper use of groundwater and judicious exploitation of this pristine resource.
 
 CGWB senior scientists Sudama Upadhyaya and Rajiv Ranjan Shukla and state public health engineering department executive engineer N S Jha also addressed the participants. 
 
 About 30 students from Patna University geology department, Patna Science College, B N College, A N College and Arvind Mahila College are attending the training programme. 
 
 PWC scholarship: As part of its platinum jubilee celebration, Patna Women’s College has set up a scholarship fund for economically deprived but meritorious students of the college. The scholarship form for the students will be available from July 10 to 22 at the college’s vocational office. The scholarship is for the students of BA, BCom, BSc, vocational courses and MCA. College principal Sister Marie Jessie A.C. said there are several criteria to apply for this scholarship. According to the notice issued by the college, candidates must score above 60% in first and second year without failing in any paper and their family annual income should be less than Rs 2 lakh. 
 
 College of Commerce, Arts and Science: Maghi Academy organised Dr Ram Prasad Sahitya Samman Samaroh at College of Commerce, Arts and Science on Monday. State PHED minister KP Verma inaugurated the event. Well-known Maghi and Bhojpuri writer Rajkumar Premi and Dr Rajendra Prasad Singh received the prestigious award. Secretary of Maghi Academy Upendra Nath Verma said every year the academy honours certain writers who have shown their excellence in their respective languages. President of Hindi Sahitya Sammelan Anil Sulabh said Hindi Sahitya Sammelan would also sponsor one award in the name of Dr Ram Prasad from next year. 
 
 
