GURGAON: Hailing the significant contribution of Haryana in the field of sports at national and international levels, Union minister   on Tuesday urged non-resident Haryanvis to adopt sportspersons from the state at an early age. He said Haryana can help India get the maximum number of medals at Olympics.

 “Haryana has made outstanding contribution in the field of sports and it can further help in getting the maximum number of medals at the international level. For this, pravasi Haryanvis can make their contribution by opening sports academy, providing scholarships to young talent. A big country like India can aim to get 100 medals at Olympics and it can be made possible with the help of pravasis,” the minister of state (independent charge) for power, coal, new and renewable energy and mines said after inaugurating the two-day Pravasi Haryana Divas at  .
 
 Chief minister   thanked non-resident Haryanvis for participating in the event and sought their suggestions, support and knowledge to make Haryana “the growth engine of the country.” More than 400 non-resident Haryanvis from 33 different countries attended the first-ever Pravasi Haryana Divas.
 
 Goyal, who maternal grandparents are from Gohana in Haryana, also said that the state has made tremendous progress in the past five decades in various fields, but said that it can do more. “Along with sports, Haryana has also made significant development in the industrial sector. Pravasis can join hands with the state in different capacity with their respective expertise for further development of the state,” he said.
 
 Citing Bollywood song, Ghar Aaja Pardeshi Tera Desh Bulaye, to woo non-resident Haryanvis, Goyal said it is best time to make contribution in the development of the Haryana, which can drive the growth of the country.
 
 Former captain of Indian cricket team,  , also appreciated the manner in which the sports culture has developed in the state. “In the past six decades, the state has achieved and lost many things in the field of sports. But this is one state where sports was given more importance,” he said. “Even women and daughters of Haryana have made the country proud in various sports meets,” he added.
 
