AHMEDABAD: A group of five girls—one aged 16, three 17 and one 18-year-old—fled from   at   after dinner on Wednesday night. Two of the   had infants younger than a year old with them. Police have formed three teams to trace the girls in Ahmedabad district and other parts of Gujarat.

  In the last 13 months, this is the third incident of girls fleeing from the observation home. Vikas Gruh was also in the news last year, when a speech and hearing impaired woman was   by a staff member.
 
 According to the Paldi police, the incident came to light during the night roll call by the Gruh Mata (rector) Kailas Dave at 8pm. Observation home officials said the girls were present for dinner at 7.30pm. Metal wires attached to the back gate was bent and it is suspected that the group   using that route.
 
 Two of the girls were from Viramgam, and the three others were from Detroj, Kaligam and Hirapur, near Santrampur in Mahisagar district, respectively. Sources said almost all the girls had been sent to the observation home after eloping with their boyfriends, and had been in the facility for periods ranging from a year to four months.
 
 Investigators said the boyfriends of two of the girls who fled were recently released from jail, where they were lodged for abduction. Investigators believe that they may have had a hand in the incident.
 
 Paldi police station inspector B S Rabari said they have formed multiple teams to look for the girls. “We have also questioned the Vikas Gruh authorities and employees on Thursday, to get more details on events preceding the incident,” he said.
 
 HOME SICK
 
 The incident on Wednesday was the latest involving occupants of Vikas Gruh fleeing after hoodwinking the authorities. There were two such incidents in 2016 too. In June 2016, three girls from Bangladesh were reported to have escaped, whereas a 12-year-old girl went missing in September. In 2013, three girls aged between 14 and 17 years had fled whereas in 2009, five girls had managed to escape.
 
 A speech-and-hearing-impaired woman at the Vikas Gruh was found to be pregnant in July 2016. An identification parade revealed the perpetrator to a staff member. Senior city police officials said that after the rape incident, a number of suggestions had been made.
 
 They asked the authorities to install CCTV cameras, raise the height of the boundary wall, identify security concerns such as desolate areas and areas seldom checked by staff members, strengthen security arrangements and floodlights at the premises operational. The judiciary had also made some suggestions over security concerns. Officials said most of these suggestions have not been implemented.
 
