Nagpur: Even though mishaps are happening regularly in cold storages across the country, the civic authorities in the city have turned a blind eye towards violations done by local units. Many lives have been lost in the city due to accidents in cold storages in the last few years. According to National Building Code of India (NBCI), the height of storage buildings should not be more than 15 metres. The same is mentioned in the Development Control Rules (DCR) of Nagpur. However, many cold storages in and around the city violate this restriction. Activist Kamlesh Shah through RTI query found that four cold storage units in agricultural produce marketing committee (APMC) Kalamna were refused no objection certificate (NOC) by Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) fire department as their heights were more than 15 metres. This is the evident from the letter sent by NMC’s chief fire official Rajendra Uchake to Nagpur Improvement Trust (NIT) on August 24, 2016. TOI has learnt that these storages did not get their building plan sanctioned. In spite of this, NIT did not take any action against them over the years. These units include Wadhwani Parmeshwari cold storage, Kunal cold storage, Wadhwani cold storage and ice factory and Vidarbha cold storage. In 2014, the NMC’s fire department issued notices to these four units to vacate the premises. However, the documents obtained by Shah revealed that the state’s director of fire services set aside the order, asking the cold storage owners to install necessary fire safety equipment. NMC, however, is not ready to implement the order and the owners have, hence, moved the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court. Owners of the storages claim that the 15m height restriction is not applicable to their buildings as they were constructed more than ten years ago. However, a NMC official said that the restriction would apply to them. “They had recently applied to NIT for getting building plan sanctioned. Now, NIT will have to sanction the plan as per present norms and not those when the buildings were constructed,” he added. Shah said that the decision of higher fire authorities and NIT’s inaction posed a risk to human lives. “The four units are around 20 metres in height. More the volume of the storage, more is the quantity that is stored inside it which is risky for the stability of the building,” he said. Due to the high concentration of ammonia and other inflammatory gases, cold storage buildings are at a high risk of catching fire. “There is very little gap between these buildings and a fire tender can’t go there,” Shah said.