PATNA: Age is no bar to pursue your dream and who knows it better than   (59). Anita is in the city to launch her first album of eight   Bhajans on February 14. 

 Though a passionate singer, Anita could not pursue it as a career and, instead, became a chartered accountant (CA). 
 
 Born in Madhubani to an IAS officer Shiv Nandan Mishra and Indu Bala Mishra, Anita always heard her mother sing  . “Though I was fond of music, I did not get any opportunity to learn it professionally. After matriculation, I got married to Dr Ajay Kumar Choudhary, a physician based in the UK. One year after marriage, I joined my husband in 1975 and got settled there. However, while leaving for the  , I carried a few audio cassettes of Lata Mangeshkar,” Anita told TOI.
 
 Anita recalled how difficult it was for her to understand the language. “I took admission in ‘A’ level course in Burness, similar to Intermediate here. After completing the course, I studied accounts and joined Nation Health Services (NHS) as a CA. I hardly got time to practise singing,” she said.
 
 Changes came in 1988 when Anita moved to Yorkshire with her husband. “There were few Indians and we used to celebrate festivals together. In one of the Diwali parties, I sang in public and got huge appreciation. It gave me confidence and I started singing frequently in parties. Then I met a surgeon, Yoga Sagar, who was also a good music composer and we started singing together,” she recalled.
 
 Eight years back, the duo formed a band along with Jyanti Gopal, a general physician and her husband Shiv Gopal, an orthopaedic. “Now, we do stage performances and also collect money for charity,” said Anita. Their group had collected UK3,000 pound for Chennai floods and 2000 pound for Nepal earthquake victims. 
 
 Anita also imparted training in music to her two daughters — Manu Choudhary (38) and Manisha Choudhary (28). “My daughters learnt English classical and my three-year-old granddaughter Amaya also sings Bollywood songs and can chant Sanskrit mantras,” said Anita, adding, “I am very excited about my first album and I am planning to quit my job and pursue music as a profession.”
 
 
