When 10-year-old Alisha Pinto got to know from her parents that when   reopens next month, she won’t be able to spend her pocket money on her favourite potato chips or mango lollies because of the state government’s   on junk foods in school canteens, she was thoroughly disappointed. “Now, she is less enthusiastic about resuming school,” says her mother Tina.
Preetha Sharma, a 12-year-old student, echoes Alisha’s sentiments. “I usually buy vada pav, chips and chocolates almost thrice a week from the  . I will miss eating all these items if they ban it. Though I carry lunch from home, I love eating fast food during the short break. All my friends do it, too. My parents tell me about the ill-effects of eating  , and it’s only at school that I have it. Once I reach home, I anyway drink milk and then eat fruits in the evening, followed by dinner. So why can’t I have my favourite foods once in a while at school?” she asks.
 Alisha and Preetha are among the many kids in the city who are upset about the ban, which came into effect after the   government issued a Government Resolution (GR) on Monday, asking schools not to sell items that are ‘High in Fat, Salt and Sugar’ (HFSS). 
 
 
 Now that items like potato chips, noodles, aerated drinks, pizzas, burgers, cakes, biscuits, buns and pastries might no longer feature on canteen menus, parents are happy that this will keep childhood obesity and other related disorders in check. Arundhati Chavan, president of Parents Teacher Association (PTA), shares, “We’ve been fighting for this for the last five years. While some schools anyway don’t encourage sale of junk food and have their own midday meal programmes, others instruct parents on what they need to pack for tiffins. Some parents do give their kids snacks like noodles and wafers in their dabbas, but that’s only when the children throw a tantrum. We don’t recommend junk food because kids tend to feel hungry soon after consuming it and lose concentration as well.”
 There are some parents who believe that despite the ban, kids will eat junk food outside the premises. Radhika Kochhar, mother of a 13-year-old boy, shares, “Kids may be forced to eat healthier items in school from now on, but when they step out of the premises, they will buy junk food from vendors. So, how do we control that?” 
 
 
 Anushka Desai, teacher at a suburban school, adds that it’s not just school authorities who are responsible for what kids eat. Parents, too, need to be strict when it comes to their diet. After all, the GR does not stop children from carrying junk food in their lunch boxes. She says, “Parents should resist giving in to the demands of kids and try to limit intake of unhealthy food items even at home. They can control consumption of junk food by ensuring that the kids have a balanced, nutritious diet throughout the week — be it at home or in school. Kids can be allowed to indulge in their favourite food items once a week. They need to be taught why junk food is called ‘junk’ and emphasise on the unhealthy aspects of it. If they start at an early age, it is easier for kids to make correct food choices.”
 
 
 Dietician and sports nutritionist Sakina Patrawala believes banning all junk items from the canteen is not the solution. “Schools need to get a nutritionist on board to review the canteen menu and make healthier changes without compromising on the taste. This will help improve the quality of food served at the canteen. The school also has to ensure complete hygiene among canteen staff and also in the premises. Also, seminars on health need to be regularly organised for children as well as parents so that they can learn about healthy eating habits.” 
 Nisha Ranganathan, mother of a teenager, adds, “While I believe that the ban is a first step in the right direction, parents and school authorities should come together to ensure kids eat healthy. I think seminars and talk sessions on food habits must be made compulsory. Also, make healthy meals interesting for kids by presenting them in innovative ways.”
 
 
 > Instead of maida in frankies, use whole wheat to make the rolls. Use protein-rich fillings like paneer, egg or chicken to make the meal wholesome. 
 > Use multigrain bread to make sandwiches. 
 > Make boring salads yummy by using hung curd as dressing. Use colourful vegetables like broccolli, carrots and purple cabbage to make the salad appealing. 
 > Substitute ketchup with healthier chutneys made from coriander, mint, tamarind or dates.
 > Try to incorporate interesting meal options like pita-hummus and a burrito bowl. 
 
 — With inputs from Garvita.Sharma@timesgroup.com
 
