BALLARI: Saturday night was one of horror for the folk of  . Armed with an axe,   slayed his wife, sister-in-law and his three children, all under the age of 10. He then surrendered before the police. 

 It was only when police rushed to the crime spot that his neighbours learnt what had happened.
 
 According to preliminary information, Thippaiah sold six sheep last week and deposited the money with his wife Pakkeeramma. When he asked her for it, she refused to hand it over to him, and was also advised by her sister Gangamma to keep the money with her.
 
 Thippaiah was known to be deeply in debt and had many bad habits. Ten years ago, an unemployed Thippaiah had come to live in his parents-in-law's house, to earn his livelihood.
 
 Furious, Thippaiah began quarrelling with Pakkeeramma, and suspecting her fidelity. He questioned her character and claimed that he had fathered only his eldest daughter, and was not the biological father of his three other children.
 
 After tension began to escalate, he planned to take drastic measures. He sent his daughter Rajeshwari to his native village, Kenchanagudda in Siruguppa taluk of  , and executed the mass murder as planned on Saturday night. Pakkeremma, 36, her sister Gangamma, 30, Raju, 8, Basamma, 10, and Pavitra, 6, died on the spot. He then confessed before the police.
 
 Ballari SP R Chethan, who visited the spot, said Thippaiah had killed his family members due to a family problem, and had surrendered. We are investigating the issue, he added.
 
 After an autopsy was conducted, there was no one to receive the bodies of the dead. Finally, Purasabha, the local government officers, conducted a mass burial after digging a single pit. 
 
 Neighbours, who were looking forward to Amavasya on Sunday night, were spooked by the murders. "There were several problems in their family. We are not ready to speak about his brutality. He looked innocent, we can never believed he did it," they said. Thippaiah was kept at  , and is to be produced before a judge at his residence on Sunday night.
 
