The students at  , Greater Noida, were quite excited as the lead actors of TV show Karmbhoomi recently visited the campus. The occasion was the launch of a campaign about depression by the show’s makers. Titled ‘How I Won Depression’, the event had four of the show’s leads – Ojaswini Gul, Guncha Dwivedi, Jaswinder Singh, and   – interacting with the students and sharing their personal battles with depression. Dr  , JIMS was seen participating actively in the session.

 Talking about the idea behind getting actors to speak on depression,  , the show’s director, told us, “Within the show, we have had our characters battle things like child abuse and bullying. Then, all your young lead actors have had personal battles with depression. Since we are doing a campus show and the problem of depression is increasingly common amongst students, we felt it was essential that we address this problem by going to campuses and talking to the students directly.”
 
  
  Students of JIMS Engineering Management Technical Campus attending an interactive session on the stigmas associated with depression (BCCL/ Lokesh Kashyap)
 
 The actors shared their stories about how they won over depression. 17-year-old Noida-based actress Guncha Dwivedi, who plays Kiara in the show, shared, “When depression hits you as an adult, at least people take you seriously. But when you are a teenager, they ask – ‘what have you faced that you are so depressed?’” The students asked the actors questions about their experiences with depression. When asked about how one can counter the loneliness caused by depression, Ojaswini replied, “I feel sharing and talking about it is as important. You need to find people you are comfortable with and those who don’t judge you – your circle. That helps in overcoming depression.”
 
  
  (L) Ojaswini Gul and (R) Kanu Priya
 
 
 The cast also emphasised on the need to destigmatize depression and encourage therapy. Giving the analogy of a physical ailment and injury, Kanu Priya said, “I broke my foot some time ago, and had to go to the doctor to get a cast on it. After it became better, I visited the physiotherapist. Had I tried fixing it myself, I would have damaged it even further. We need to adopt a similar approach to mental health issues. Rather than asking people to snap out of it, they should be encouraged for therapy.”
 
 Students said they found the session quite encouraging because they felt that if the actors can overcome depression and become successful, so can they.  , a first-year law student said, “What I liked was they didn’t simply talk about the problem but told us that how they beat it.”
 
 
