GAYA: Facts emerging about the mental health of  , who killed four of his  , raise issues concerning   deficit in the elite force entrusted with the security of vital installations, including airports, across the country.

 M A Kazmi, a retired IG, said reports that family members of Balbir earlier intimated his bosses about the troubled mental condition of the cop with a request to withdraw him from rifle duty, if true, points out to serious lapses in proper man management, a very important area of effective administration. Calls made to CISF IG in his Patna number to get the official version on the reported statement of Balbir’s family members went answered.
 
 Striking a somewhat cautious note, Neelmani, former DGP of the state, said the reported statement of the cop’s family members have not been properly verified and as such it would be improper to jump to a conclusion.
 
 Conceding that members of the police force work under stressful conditions, Neelmani said regular monitoring of psychological behaviour of the police personnel was required and abnormalities, if any, have to be effectively addressed through counselling, medication and other means. Making clear the general nature of his opinion, the former DGP said he was not specifically referring to the Aurangabad incident.
 
 According to Gaya-based psychiatrist Dr  , members of the police force work under extremely stressful circumstances with complaints of overwork and insufficient sleep away from their families and as such a well-planned and properly executed de-stressing strategy was required for proper mental healthcare of the police personnel. While the physical fitness of the members of the police forces figured high on the priority list of the superior officers, issues related to mental health require better appreciation, he said.
 
 Asked about Balbir’s complaint that he was frequently teased and taunted about his personal life, Dr Narain said it may not necessarily have happened. Though he was not aware of the mental health status of Balbir, Dr Narain said patients suffering from mental diseases in many cases experience hallucination about things and events that never happened.
 
 About de-stressing methods, Dr Narain said relaxation training, regular work schedule to the extent possible, good nutrition, opportunity to provide distraction to the mind on a regular basis, proper sleep and avenues of ventilation of emotions can go a long way in de-stressing the somewhat stressed police force. 
 
