NOIDA: The   on Thursday evening disconnected electricity supply to two police stations in Noida, halting official work such as registration of FIRs and wireless communication because of unpaid bills.

 The Sector 24 and Sector 58 police stations plunged into darkness for five hours and digital work like registration of cases, framing of chargesheets and even wireless communication came to a standstill. The officers used inverters but even they stopped functioning after a few hours. Electricity supply was resumed after five hours around 9.30pm, following the intervention of senior police officers.
 
 Vinay Prakash Singh, SHO, Sector 24 police station, said the power department officials visited the station around 5pm to stop the supply. “They disconnected the electricity supply to the police station and left. We used an inverter for some time. But the entire computer system stopped working because of the shortage,” Singh said. He said all the work done on the computer like registration of FIR, and filing of chargesheet and final report stopped. “It is strange that they disconnected electricity supply without prior notice,” Singh said.
 
 The officers of the Sector 58 police station said electric supply to their station too was stopped without prior notice. “We work for the safety of citizens. We provide emergency services and need to be alert and connected 24x7. The entire communication system shut down owing to interruption of electricity supply. If there was an issue of non-payment, they should talk to us and resolve it,” an officer said.
 
 When contacted, SDO Shalabh Garg, in-charge of sectors 23, 24 and 58, acknowledged that power was cut for the sector 24 and sector 58 police stations at 4.15pm and restored only by 9.30pm on the intervention of Ajay Kumar, CO II Noida, and Raghevndra Yadav, executive engineer, power department.
 
 Garg said that the sector 58 police station had an outstanding bill of Rs 42 lakh, an amount that piled up over the last three-four years. “The in-charge of the Sector 58 police station did not receive the bill when we sent it in January this year. We again sent the bill in March 2017 ahead of the financial year closing but they did not accept it. As a result the outstanding bill today is of Rs 42 lakh, which is why we disconnected their line on Thursday evening," Garg said.
 
 A similar outstanding bill was there from the Sector 24 police station where there is than one connection out of which one is for official use and other for residential use of police officers attached to the police station. “The official connection had an outstanding bill of about Rs 12-13 lakh, whereas the residential connection of the policemen had an outstanding of Rs 29 lakh. The total sums up to Rs 42 lakh,” Garg said, adding that he had gone personally to verify the said bills.
 
 Out of the domestic connection (of Rs 29 lakh outstanding), the Sector 24 police station has paid (by March end) about Rs 15 lakh. “There’s still pending outstanding amount of Rs 14 lakh from that bill. Add to that the official connection of Rs 13 lakh which is not paid yet. So the total outstanding of Sector 24 police station is Rs 27 lakh,” Garg said. 
 
 The electricity department officials said that once the power bill is presented to the police station/chowki it goes to area CO and then to SSP office for clearance.
 
 
