Nagpur: Unable to get bank loans on account of earlier defaults, farmers are looking for other sources of finance. Hoping to be covered under state government’s waiver scheme, a large section of farmers are learnt to have not repaid their dues.  At the same time, even private moneylenders have become selective, avoiding loans for direct farming purposes, says sources in the hinterland. With this, many are turning to cooperative societies taking loans against gold.  There is a general apprehension among lenders that farmers may default on their loans too and also go ahead complaining against them to avoid recovery. The trend of farmers going against lenders began after state government implemented a plan to waive moneylenders’ loans in 2014. The government has also left the lenders unhappy. Sources say it was because the move capped the interest to be charged at official rates. There was a common practice to charge higher than the prescribed rate of 15% to 18%. After the move, even the borrowers have started taking proactive stance against private lenders. Lenders have faced complaints from their clients over charging excessive interest. With rains delayed, there are fears that farmers may not be able to repay their loans in time. The distrust has reached a peak level during the current sowing season, say sources. “There is a general trend that private lenders are not too keen on lending farmers this time. It s evident from the increase in lending at our end,” said Sukesh Zanwar, managing director of Buldhana Urban Credit Cooperative Socieity. During last month, the loan size reached Rs200 crore, with more business expected in coming days. “This is nearly 10% increase from the last year. On the contrary, it was expected that lending would be down during the season. The loans are given against gold,” he said. “Private moneylenders are our direct competitors and there is always an attempt to bring farmers towards societies. This season, there has been a 10%-15% rise in such loans against gold. The reason are not known but moneylenders are not too active,” said Kshitij Tayade of Rajklaxmi Multitstate Cooperative Bank also at Buldhana. “Lenders are avoiding small ticket loans running up to Rs25,000 to Rs30,000. There have been cases where the borrowers have charged them of over-charging leading to inquiries from the department of cooperatives which governs private lending,” said Ravi Agrawal, a cotton trader at Paratwada in Amravati district. “This year the problem has worsened. Farmers normally used to source funds from private lenders till bank loans were secured. However, this was against land or any other security Soon after the waiver of 2014, many have resorted to filing cases against the lender if they are unable to repay. Some farmers in Amravati district also approached local political leaders. Now, even the lenders are now turning farmers,” said Vijay Ingle of Achalpur Tehisl in Amravati district. A source in department of cooperative confirmed the development saying that there has been a mark increase against lenders especially the unlicensed operators. ‘Provide a package of Rs40k cr to state’ Kishore Tiwari, the chairman of Vasantrao Naik Shetkari Swavalamban Mission (VNSSM), stated before Niti Ayog that centre should provide a special package of Rs40,000 crore to Maharashtra Government. Tiwari was attending a meeting on the current agrarian crisis along with representatives of other states.  He said, “The funds will be required to make good the loss on account of loan waiver. The state is already reeling under a debt of around Rs4 lakh core and the waiver will add to the burden.” Apart from it, the funds can be used to implement measures to increase farm output, he said. “Though a temporary measure, farm loan waiver was needed at this juncture. But it will also lead to diversion of funds which otherwise could have been used strengthen the farm sector,” he added.