JAIPUR: There are several new gangs that are pouring in the city, armed with illegal weapons from   and neighbouring Uttar Pradesh, they are suspected to be involved in range of crime including recent loots, murders and robberies.

 The city cops have stumbled across these gangs while probing the multi-crore Muthoot and UCO bank loots. The cops believe influx of illegal weapons into the city from Mewat region and neighbouring state of Uttar Pradesh have emboldened new gangs to aim for the ‘big prize.’
 
 On Thursday, the cops detained three members of a   that had attempted to loot multiple ATMs in the city but failed each time as they didn’t have a gas cutter. The gang’s kingpin admitted he was planning to execute a bigger loot, but his bid was foiled due to enhanced checking and vigil by cops and following two broad daylight loots. 
 
 The three-member gang was headed by one Ajay, a resident of Sirsa in Haryana. He was fired from a finance company and hence turned to crime. 
 
 “While probing suspects of UCO bank case, we learned of Ajay and his accomplices and their role in ATM loot attempts. The gang’s king pin revealed he was planning for a bigger loot but failed due to enhanced vigil by police,” said deputy commissioner of police (East) Kunwar Rashtradeep.
 
 The crime branch attributed rise of gangs and crime to the easy availability of illegal weapons. “The regions of Mewat, parts of Alwar and Agra in Uttar Pradesh are home to a thriving gun industry. These illegal weapons have flooded the city,” the official said. Adding that gun used in UCO bank loot was suspected to be one made in Mewat. 
 
  “These weapons come in all sizes, shapes and prize range. A best handmade pistol may cost between Rs 30,000 to Rs 35,000. However, a small katta can be brought for merely Rs 2,000,” the official said.
 
 These illegal weapons are supplied to even Sikar and other areas and are often used by gangs for land grabbing. The cops said that on July 26, the sleuths of crime branch had seized five illegal pistols from one Rajendra in Harmara, these pistols cost Rs 35,000 in the market.
 
