KOLKATA: Upbeat with the  , a host of   fanned out in different parts of Bengal on Friday taking a blow-hot-blow-cold strategy against  .

 While Union home minister and BJP's senior leader   maintained his reserve while hitting out at the ruling Trinamool over its failure to curb violence raising speculation of his personal rapport with Mamata Banerjee, Union water resources minister Uma Bharti went a whole hog against the Trinamool chief who has emerged as the BJP’s antagonist in Bengal. “There was a time when CPM dragged her by her hair. We were then by her side. Now she is swearing at BJP. We were the ones who helped her come to power, we will oust her from government in 2021,” the Union minister said while addressing BJP activists in Howrah. Parting ways with some of her ministerial colleagues who had spoken against carrying of illegal arms during Ram Navami processions, the Union minister said: “Goddess Durga holds the trident and Lord Rama the bow and the arrow. What’s the harm if devotees carry these traditional Hindu arms?” The Union minister then came down heavily on police inaction at Dhulagarh and the government’s misleading people over central funds. 
 
 The Union home minister, however, took a middle path over the BJP’s claim of the administration’s political bias to curb political violence. “Good governance has no room for political violence. We should avoid confrontation if we want development. These are some of the real challenges before a state government. But then, law and order is a state subject. But the Centre may mediate with states on certain issues, if necessary,” Singh said. He also parried questions over the armed processions during Ram Navami. “It’s the duty of states to provide security to religious rallies,” he said. Sitting beside him, state BJP president Dilip Ghosh, accused in the Arms Act after flaunting a sword while taking part in the Ram Navami rally at Kharagpur, said he would take part in the rally next year.
 
 Union minister of state for external affairs M J Akbar, on the other hand, cited a report by Nobel Laureate Amartya Sen to counter Trinamool government’s claim for welfare of the minorities. “Sen has never been a BJP man. His report claims that 82% of Muslims in Bengal live below poverty line,” Akbar said in Malda.
 
