THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Kerala’s backwater tourism has received a shot in the arm as it has found a place in the National Geographic’s book, ‘The World's Most Romantic Destinations’, beating several other popular destinations, including Rio De Janeiro in Brazil and Hamilton Island in Australia.

 Placed 10th among the ‘17 of the World’s Most Romantic Destinations’, Kerala’s backwaters are depicted in the book as a destination for ‘couples wanting to indulge in a dream getaway’.
 
 “Kerala was featured in the millennium edition of the   as one of the 50 must see destinations. The best promotion takes place when an endorsement comes from a third party and it is of critical importance for a destination to find a prominent place in the global tourism map,” said tourism principal Dr V Venu.
 
 Ahead of Kerala’s backwaters in the list are Moselle River Valley in Western Europe, Bruges in Belgium, Isle of Skye in Scotland, Mykonos in Greece, the French Riviera in France, San Sebastian in Spain, Yunnan Province in China, Venice in Italy and Big Sur in California.
 
 “Getting listed with places like Venice, which has already established themselves as tourist’s paradises, comes as a real tribute to the beauty of Kerala’s backwaters,” the tourism secretary pointed out.
 
 The book, which says the houseboats along the   ‘are the height of comfortable cruising’, also lists Bhutan, Western Slovenia of central Europe, Hamilton Island in Australia, Yucatan Peninsula in Mexico, Neuschwanstein Castle in Germany, Rio De Janeiro in Brazil and Jukkasjarvi in Sweden, as places ‘offering perfect passionate escape to those who have just found love or are celebrating a lifetime of it’.
 
 The recognition is also a testimony to the high standards of houseboats operated in Kerala’s backwaters, according to houseboat operators. “Though a bit crowded in some areas, the house boats are being operated in the most professional manner, especially in places like Kumarakom. The backwaters is the real brand ambassador of Kerala tourism, and is the best example for responsible tourism with the active participation of the local community,” said Jaison Anithanam, the general manager of Karma Group.
 
