Of all the big investments you are likely to make, none is so fraught with uncertainty as that of buying a house. For once, it is not the fault of the saver. The blame lies squarely with the way the real estate industry has evolved over the last decade or two. The very idea that a house is an investment is a product of the hype that has evolved over this period. Before that, except for a handful who had vast amounts of cash, houses were not financial investments.

 Starting around the year 2000, the combination of dropping interest rates, tax breaks and rapidly increasing disposable incomes led to the rise of the  , the small, leveraged second  . People took loans to buy houses and sold them two or three years down the line because prices had risen enough to prepay the loan and still make an enormous profit. However, the real estate industry rapidly rigged this phenomena and turned it into a bubble which eventually burst. Today there are a number of people stuck with unbuilt houses with unpayable  .
 
 None of this is a secret. The only problem is that builders, dealers, and the media are fully dedicated to convincing you that none of this is happening or if it is, then a huge revival is just around the corner. However, you still must try to buy one house. Despite all of the above, real estate is the only purchase for which it's fine to take a loan. The saving on rent, the tax break, and the psychological comfort are worth it.
 
 However, you have to ignore the hype and stick to these principles: One, buy just one house which will actually save you rent. Do not buy more as an investment.
 
 Two, don't stretch yourself. The EMI should not be more than one third of your family income.
 
 Three, it's obvious that there's a huge difference between a house and the promise of a house. Completion of projects is at a premium today. This is an unfortunate sideeffect of the way real estate developers have got away with fraudulent behaviour.
 
 Real estate investments must be evaluated in the normal terms of any investment — liquidity, safety, transparency, returns and similar parameters. Most people get confused about this because there is a fundamental difference between your first house which you live in and property bought purely for investment. The first house is a need and when you take into account the fact you can stop paying rent and get a tax break on the EMIs, you'll get a big financial advantage. A first house may or may not turn out to be an investment.
 
 The myth of real estate being a great investment is mostly due to mathematical illiteracy about compound growth. Any   will tell you how some land or house became 50 or 100 times its value in 4050 years. Sounds fabulous, but you know, the BSE   has become 300 times its value in 38 years. That's Rs 10 lakh becoming Rs 30 crore. Even 100 times in 50 years is a 9.6% per annum gain. That's a good return, but not outstanding. It's a lot less than stocks.
 
 After that, there is basically no case for real estate as an investment. The ticket size is huge, liquidity is poor. The entire investment has to be sold at one go. In a slump, entire markets disappear for long periods. Pricing may be hard to discover. Information is anecdotal and hard to verify. The choice is clear.
 
 
 
 
 
