PUNE: The   along with the department of cooperation and the municipal corporations will hand out certificates to housing societies which record 100% turnout in the municipal elections. 

 Around 32,666 members from 16,333 societies in Pune and   have been appointed booth-level officers (BLOs) as the per an order issued earlier by the cooperation department. As per cooperation department data, there are 11,697 registered societies in Pune and 4,636 in Pimpri Chinchwad. Apart from these, there are several unregistered societies.
 
 “We have observed a reluctance to vote on the part of society members,” said state election commissioner J S Saharia. “Primary society members [chairmen and secretaries] will now act as BLOs, whose main task will be to ensure 100% turnout from their own societies,” he added. 
 
 A dismal 50% turnout was recorded in the 2012 elections. This time, the SEC hopes to achieve at least 70%. 
 
 For instance, the Uotpia housing society in Wanowrie, Kondwa, is pulling out all steps to ensure it’s 400-odd members will vote on February 21 — several meetings have already been held, notices are being put up and transport is being arranged to polling booths on election day. Similarly, several other societies in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad have been mobilized. 
 
 The Salunke Vihar society, which nearly 1,200 registered voters, has started already started reaching out to them. With five polling booths on their campus, it will be easy for them to ensure 100% voting. The society has nearly 800 housing units. 
 
 According to Radhikesh Uttarwar, advocate who has been spreading the word on the importance of voting, and reaching out to different societies, nearly 100 societies have taken a pledge to vote. “With active support from the chairmen and secretaries, we can have maximum participation from the members. I have personally reached out to societies in Kharadi, Kothrud and PCMC areas,” he said. 
 
 District deputy registrar Balasaheb Taware said that the department is ensuring training is provided to those chairmen and secretaries who will serve as BLOs. He said that a joint meeting will be conducted with the respective commissioners in this regard. 
 
 The fact that a special certificate will be given as a mark of appreciation, appears to have spurred on the members of the housing society. Satish Honawar, chairman of Flower Valley in Kondhwa, is more than glad to reach out to the 1,000-odd members in his society, provided he gets an official communique from the   or the cooperation department. “Once the official communication is received followed by the training, we would be more than happy to help to ensure that our members vote,” he said.
 
