MYSURU: Mahashivaratri festival was celebrated with devotion and religious fervour in the district on Friday. Special pujas and prayers at many temples marked the occasion. 

 At Sri Trinayaneshwara Swamy temple at the palace premises, special puja began from 4am. The deity adorned a 11kg golden mask which was handed over by the Mysuru Palace Board to the temple authorities for the festival which was witnessed by hundreds of devotees. 
 
 Mysuru royal family member   visited the temple and participated in the special puja. 
 
 The members of Prajapita Brahmakumaris Ishwariya Vishwa Vidyalaya, who organised an expo at Maharaja College Ground, explained the importance of   festival to the people. They had installed replicas of 12 jyotirlingas and 40feet height Amaranath cave. 
 
 Suttur Mutt seer Shivaratri Deshikendra swami also held various pujas at the mutt premises and later JSS students participated in various cultural programs. 
 
 At Avadhoota Datta Peetham, Ganapathi Sachchidananda Swamy Ashram, various religious programs were held from early morning. Special pujas like Maha Ganapathi homa, Rudra homa, mass prayer were held under the guidance of Sachchidananda swami. 
 
 Later in the programme, a biography of seer Sachchidananda swamy in Russian language was released. 
 
 Meanwhile, a large number of devotees from different parts of the state thronged Sri Srikanteshwaraswamy temple in Nanjangud which is considered as Dakshina Kashi. After taking holy dip in Kapila river, the devotees took darshan of lord  , the deity of Nanjangud after standing in long queues braving scorching sun. 
 
 Special pujas were held under the guidance of tempest priest Nagachandra Dixit. Temple administration had also organised night long cultural programs.
 
 Thousands of devotees visited Male Mahadeshwara Swamy temple atop MM Hills in Chamarajanagar district and participated in religious programs which were conducted all through the night. Car festival was organised where the chariot carrying deity was pulled by devotees.
 
 
