The team of  's Ima ikkaa Nodigal, starring Atharvaa,  ,   and  , has shot a risky stunt scene in Bengaluru recently, for which they roped in a cycle stunt specialist from Hong Kong.
 
 Talking about the making of the stunt, the film's stunt choreographer Stun Siva says, “When Ajay narrated the scene, we all felt that it would turn out into something special if could roped in an expert for the cycle stunts. Because, the scene involved the characters riding not on the road, but on platforms, steep steps and so on, at a high speed.
 
 Having shot in Hong Kong for a few films, like the introductory fight scene in Ajith's Aegan, I have developed some contacts there. And through one of my stuntmen friend there, I managed to get in touch with Lee Hon Yiu, who is considered as the No 1 cycle stunt specialist in South Asia.“
 
 Lee also doubled up as Atharvaa's dupe for some of the portions that needed expert handling of the cycle. But Atharvaa, Siva says, took quite a few risks while filming this stunt. “He prac tised stuff like flipping the cycle and lifting the front wheel (like a wheelie), and performed them by himself. He also rode the cycle in some of the riskier shots, which including riding with the traffic coming from the opposite side,“ he reveals.
 
 The team shot this three-minute sequence for five days in busy streets and highways, and at an IT park in Bangalore. “Getting permissions was difficult and expensive because we were shooting on busy stretches during the day... almost `1.5-2 lakh per day, for a four-to-fivehour shoot,“ says the stunt master. This is why the entire sequence, he informs, was planned in detail before going on location. “Just like they do for a Hollywood film, we storyboarded the stunts, and every technician from the cinematographer to art director and the visual effects supervisor was part of the planning. We also had an online editor there so that we could shoot and immediately see our output with rough visual effects,“ he reveals and adds that five cameras, including drones and camera bikes (bikes with cameras mounted on them in the front and rear), were used to shoot this stunt. 
 
