POKHRA (Mirzapur): Each time someone falls ill among   here, their ojha is their only saviour. The words of this man, who they believe embodies their deity Ghasi Ghanshyam, is final.

 So, if he tells them to go to the city and see a doctor, the Gonds will. But chances are the ojha will `handle the situation' himself by applying some `divine ash' on the body and prescribing some `magic potion'.
 
 One reason why UP's tribal voters, present in small numbers in Mirzapur and Varanasi, opt for the ojha is because the nearest primary health centre in Hallia is about 25km away . The road is strewn with boulders and there is no conveyance. In any case, most Gonds have no money to bear the cost of treatment in Hallia or Mirzapur.
 
 As they are wooed by various parties, the 1,500-odd followers of the ojha say they have to vote because it is their `dharma', although they have no idea about the candidates in the fray in their constituency Chhanbe.
 
 Some have heard of the big names running UP's election show. Describing PM  , Amarti Devi said, “woh to budhwa admi hai...baal pakey hain.. muskiyat hai (he the old man with white hair... he smiles).“
 
 But who is Modi? To this, another woman, Jayapati, says, “Woh Bharat varsh maa hain kuch... kuch bahut bada (he is something big in Bharat Varsh.“ But the women weren't sure where or what `Bharat Varsh' was. The women claimed they hadn't heard of Mulayam and Akhilesh Yadav but some were aware of a party with the `cycle' symbol. “Akhilesh.. naam suna laagat baa... par ham janit nai ki oo kaun baa (I seem to have heard the name but don't know who he is),“ said Basanti Devi. Some have heard of Indira Gandhi, but don't know her grandson Rahul. About Mayawati, Samudar Devi said, “Thi hiyan bahut saal bhaye... kaa pata kaha chali gaiyen (she was here many years ago...no idea where she's gone).“
 
 All of them knew their MP Anupriya Patel as one who promised to come to a neighbouring village for a meeting but never turned up. The Gonds say the elec tions are some kind of a festival in Bharat Varsh. “Pata nahi kaa hote baa... par neek hi hote hai (I don't know what it is.. but it is something good),“ remarked Jayapati. “Neta log sab lariyaat hai... godh lagat hain.. binti karat hain ki ham batan dab dei (Netas roam around, touch our feet, plead to press the button in their favour),“ she added.
 
 The issues of these villagers, who live along the Adwya river, fail to find a place in any party's manifesto. “ Approach roads are the biggest issue... there are times when men and women walk overnight to come return from Hallia,“ said Bibhuti Mishra, founder of Prabodhini Foundation, which is working to empower women in the area.
 
 “Most of these people have never seen the world beyond Vindhyanchal Temple. But they are strong people who struggle to suron savings as small as Rs 40-50 per month,“ said Mishra, who's helping these women form a self-help group.
 
