NEW DELHI: The three union coal ministry officials, held guilty in a  , made “dishonest misrepresentation” of facts to the then Prime Minister   while recommending the allocation of a coal block in Madhya Pradesh to Kamal Sponge Steel and Power Limited (KSSPL), aspecial   court observed. 

 The court found that the application of KSSPL was “clearly incomplete” as it was not accompanied with all the requisite documents, thus liable to be rejected at the initial stage itself. 
 
 “The fact that the then PM of the country Manmohan Singh thought it appropriate to retain the charge of ministry of coal with himself only, clearly shows as to how important the work of said ministry was,” noted special judge Bharat Parashar. 
 
 “While forwarding the file to PM as minister of coal for approval of the recommendation of the screening committee, it was nowhere mentioned by any of the MOC officers, much less by accused H C Gupta, that the applications have not been checked for their eligibility and completeness,” the court said. 
 
 In such a scenario, the court said, there was no reason for the PM to presume that the guidelines issued have not been complied with. 
 
 A special court on Friday convicted former coal secretary H C Gupta then joint secretary K S Kropha and then director K C Samaria besides others in the case pertaining to alleged irregularities in allocation of Thesgora-B Rudrapuri coal block in Madhya Pradesh to KSSPL. 
 
 KSSPL and its former managing director P K Ahluwalia have also been convicted. The court will pronounce the order on quantum of sentence today (May 22). 
 
 The court observed that screening committee constituted by government of India was given the task of verifying the claims of various applicant companies before recommending their names for allotment of coal blocks. 
 
 The court said the accused withheld the aspects of non-compliance with the guidelines from the Prime Minister, “knowing fully well” that he would approve allocation on the basis of recommendation of screening committee only.
 
 
