NEW DELHI: Conceived to represent the narrative of  , four upcoming   stations on the so-called ‘Heritage Line’ will each highlight the social, religious, imperial and colonial histories of the Mughal city. The   station, perhaps fittingly for its nomenclature and its location near the iconic mosque, will be the vehicle for the religious tale.

 As fate would have it, the construction of the Jama Masjid station had a rocky start when a Mughal-era monument, believed by the faithful to be the "lost" Akbarabadi mosque, was unearthed during excavation work. In its visual narrative, the station will ironically have a panel on this mosque. 
 
 This will be in addition to other neighbouring places of religious interest such as the Jain Mandir, Gurdwara   and Fatehpuri Masjid.
 
 The station, however, will have the white-domed imperial mosque as its centrepiece. "The first panel at the station will showcase Jama Masjid, the congregational mosque built across the road from the Red Fort on a natural outcrop known as Bhojla Pahari," said Delhi Metro Rail Corporation spokesman Anuj Dayal. "It will show Jama Masjid’s influence on the fabric of the Walled City, and more so on the ways of life of its citizens."
 
 The panel will portray the architectural elements of the mosque complex, including the arches, minarets, jharokas, domes and marble inlays adorning the imposing red sandstone building. "Different views of the complex will be used to help people understand the spaces better," explained Dayal. The centre of the panel will present the elevation of Jama Masjid as a silhouette highlighting its built form and as a representation of its present day existence.
 
 If archival maps showing Jama Masjid’s location in Shahjahanabad link the mosque to history, then the current Google map explaining its present-day setting will bring it up to the times.
 
 A second panel will centre on the broader theme of religious influences in Shahjahanabad. "This will be in the form of a montage of various places of worship, such as the Jain temple, the two Sunehri Masjids, Gurdwara Sisganj Sahib, the Fatehpuri Masjid and the lost Akbarabadi Masjid," said Dayal. Various elements and details from these structures will come together in this panel, he said.
 
 Delhi Metro is using technology to narrate the tale of religion in the area through the centuries. The panels will each be built up in three layers. Digital prints will form the first layer, while the second will consist of extrusions of various architectural elements to create a three dimensional effect. A jali pattern derived from the Jama Masjid will weave through the panels as a third layer, as Dayal explained, in order to "tie the story together".
 
