Vadodara: He mesmerized millions of Indians with his vivid paintings, especially of Hindu gods and goddesses. On Monday, a foundation was launched in the memory of Raja Ravi Varma, one of the greatest painters of 19th century. 

 Varma’s family launched the Raja Ravi Varma International Foundation for Art and Culture to mark the 111th death anniversary of the artist at Kilimanoor Palace in his hometown in Kerala. Kerala’s cultural minister, A K Balan also attended the function. 
 
 Maharaja Sayajirao Gaekwad III of erstwhile Baroda state had patronized Varma and even built a studio for him near the Laxmi Vilas Palace. “On Monday, Samarjitsinh Gaekwad of the royal family launched the foundation by unveiling the logo. Varma’s family had invited Samarjitsinh for the function as Sayajirao and Ravi Varma shared a special relationship,” said Sachin Kaluskar, art curator who has been working to spread the legacy of Ravi Varma’s art. 
 
 “Samarjitsinh talked about bonding between Sayajirao and Varma. He also recalled how in his childhood he used to admire Ravi Varma’s two unique paintings kept in his room in Laxmi Vilas Palace. Samarjitsinh said that the bond between both the families should grow in future,” Kaluskar, who too was invited to the event, told TOI. The foundation has been floated by Rama Varma, the descendant of Raja Ravi Varma. 
 
 The foundation will come up with a centre of excellence where the young and budding artists will be given a platform to promote their works. Elaborating about the special bond between Ravi Varma and Sayajirao, Kaluskar said that the artist had designed and constructed a building at Kilimanoor Palace grounds shortly before his 60th birthday. He made the building to specially accommodate Sayajirao. Varma wanted to convert the building into an art gallery where his paintings could be exhibited. But Varma breathed his last before his 60th birthday. His younger brother than completed work on the building that still stands at the palace grounds.
 
 
