KOLKATA: Restaurateurs in the city — and their patrons — hailed the intent of Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan’s suggestion that restaurants should disclose the exact portion of food they serve but a majority of them believe it would be an impractical move. 

 “The ban on liquor sale along national highways has already dealt a body blow to the food and beverages sector. Now, strictures like this will only make things more difficult for us. Weight of food like fish, chicken, pulses and paneer vary even if the number of pieces remain the same. If we mention the quantity to be served on the menu card, will that ensure that the customer will not waste anything? ” asked Sudesh Poddar, president of the   (HRAEI).
 
 Most customers are informed about the quantity that is going to be served, so mentioning the weight of food would serve no purpose, felt Sanjay Khullar, owner of Amber  . “ Most go by their instincts and in about a fourth of the orders, food is left over. Mentioning the quantity will not make a big difference. People are still going to waste food, which is packed and taken home in any case,” said Khullar.
 
 Mentioning the quantity on the menu card could help to make customers aware of the portion and tailor their order better, felt Pratap Daryanani, owner of Oasis restaurant. “It’s true that people don’t really go by the portion, but if you are informed about it, you may plan your order accordingly. One way of getting customers to closely follow the portions on the menu card is to offer them an incentive for not wasting food. I would be happy to offer a 5% discount,” said Daryanani.
 
 But such incentives could further complicate matters for restaurants, felt Khullar. “It could lead guests to leave a couple of spoons on the plate and expect a discount. That will not be feasible for us,” said Khullar.
 
 Mentioning the quantity served could help single diners, though, felt some. “Often, they have no option but to order a full plate and they do it without bothering to find out the exact quantity. So, they invariably end up wasting some food,” said Daryanani.
 
 Most of the diners TOI spoke to said that they parcel the left overs and carry it home instead of wasting. “If I end up ordering more than we can finish we always tell the attendants to parcel the leftovers,” said Pratik Agarwal, a stock broker.
 
 Some diners warn that if such a regulation is enforced, it may have an adverse effect. “Some unscrupulous eateries may try to fleece customers by charging more for smaller portions,” said  , a homemaker.
 
 “I think the government has a responsibility in creating awareness about correct nutritional intake, but they can’t decide as to how much food should there be in a portion,” said Vikas Kumar, executive chef, Flurys. Some , however, felt that such a regulation may prevent wastage of food. “If this saves food then there is no harm,” said Narayan Sharma, a Burrabazar businessman. 
 
 According to   MD Debaditya Chaudhury, there is very little scope of food wastage in Chowman and Oudh as definite portions have been allocated. “We make sure that our guest carries the leftover food. In case of Chapter 2, where we have buffet, there’s always a possibility of food wastage. Realising this, we started campaign a few months ago to raise awareness on the issue,” he said.
 
 Anjan Chatterjee, the founder of Specialty Restaurants, said one of the founding principals of Asia Kitchen was to offer a portion size that was just right for a couple to reduce wastage. The smaller portion had allowed Chatterjee to operate at a lower price point than Mainland China without compromising on quality. 
 
 
