MUMBAI: Ten years ago, on a pleasant afternoon in 2008, when a five-star hotel in the south of Mumbai played host to an   ( ) player auction, the first of its kind in any sport across the world, Sotheby's London auction house was yet to make a killing from a fascinating bronze sculpture -a Swiss masterpiece -waiting to go under the hammer. The winning bid for Walking Man I didn't quite proverbially match up to the cheque written (and the noise made) for Mahendra Singh Dhoni, the scale of contemporary European art notwithstanding.

 Much later, Richard Madley, the competent London-based auctioneer at IPL for a decade now, would admit -a bit in disbelief and a lot in awe -that sport, much defined like art as an expression of human creative skill, had taken a multi-dimensional leap of faith that astonishing afternoon. Cricket, until then a sport that had been looking to readdress itself in ways that could reassure coming generations of its viability, was given a new life by administrators with twisted hearts and professionals with incredible designs.
 
 This was 2008. India hadn't yet woken up to the idea of leagues until then. By that time, NFL ­ the celebrated American football league ­ was already 88 years old and the NBA ­ the premier men's basketball tournament ­ 62. It was pure innovation at play for IPL, working at multiple levels that helped redraft cricketing philosophies in ways that made the world sit up and take note. Never before had an investor in sport become a bigger talking point than the investment itself.
 
 Cut to 2017. The IPL will commence its 10th edition today. It will mark the beginning of the culmination of a 10-year blueprint following which the money-spinner will be expected to float on its own for eternity. The outlay could be on a very different, more promising note, going forward.
 
 But for now, the question that the IPL needs to answer is this: Has it lived up to being that innovative extravaganza that it first got recognised as 10 years ago. Not, at least, when their idea of being innovative this year has led the BCCI to have eight inaugural ceremonies. Old school antic, the fraternity says.
 
 `This year, player helmets will have cameras', screamed headlines, beaming at the thought of a novelty. Just as an afterthought, the player accessories alone at the NFL ­ helmets in particular, patented with Riddell collectibles ­ happen to be state-of-the art equipment, uniquely designed for players with specific skillsets, dipped in classic designs and constantly innovating.
 
 The headache for some of the top leagues around the world right now has been to match up the sport's in-stadia quality with that of experiencing the action on television. The idea of a 4K HD camera capturing a game live with a slow motion instant replay on the LED has been innovating at serious pace to match up with, let's say, the Cowboys stadium boasting of a 72-foot tall, 160-foot wide LED display at an equivalent 1080 screen resolution.
 
 These technologies aren't merely helping fan experience. Coaches now use them in leagues to review plays and decide whether or not to challenge official rulings. Players benefit too, in t monitoring match tactics.
 
 The idea of a jumbotron, for instance ­ a registered trademark of Sony Corp but now a general idea of a large screen television ­ is still a concept yet to catch an Indian cricket fan's imagination. A couple of weeks ago, a Supreme Court-appointed administrator in Indian cricket talked about the need to improve fan parks during matches. His was an opinion in good faith, a leap that the Lord's and the Melbourne Cricket Ground (MCG) took decades ago.
 
 The fact of the matter is that the IPL, a tournament that got off the blocks in Bolt-like fashion, is now running the risk of a long distance race without knowing what curves and hurdles it needs to manoeuvre and tackle.
 
 Most IPL franchise websites, for the record, are still clueless in ways to take the digital experience for their fan base forward. Most haven't an idea that teams in NFL, those like Baltimore and Tampa Bay, are done using iPads as official playbooks. In a typically strategic-heavy NFL week, teams now use specifically designed applications on tablets and sync password-protected devices to allow coaches to make digital updates. There are custom designed applications allowing personal touches, which in turn enhance interactions with fans and followers.
 
 “It helps build opportunities for the investor too, who is looking to expand horizons on an otherwise writhing digital platform,“ say those waiting for the IPL to turn the leaf. Sachin Tendulkar's newly launched smartphone application 100 MB is in some ways an Indian start-up on similar lines ­ making social media platforms like Twitter and Facebook look secondary pulpits for connectivity .
 
 The quest facing the IPL remains specific and yet eternal: Can the idea of a fan constantly seeking the television experience while enjoying the in-stadia action be matched rhetorically with that of sitting at home, watching prime time action and yet not missing out on being inside the stadium.
 
 “We'll come to that after we're done doing petty chatter on what the commentator spoke at last night's game and chucking him for not sticking to `protocol',“ says a cricket industry executive. The BCCI, over the years, has certainly been at fault here, in trying to stifle creativity. Come to think of it, the idea of having to watch Danny Morrison wearing an ill-fitting Indian attire and go “Iiii-Pppp-Lll“ lost charm quite some time ago. Even Big Bash, the Australian tournament that took cue from the IPL, has done things differently. For starters, they now have a women's league, making it a 16-team experience and a larger cricket base to pick from.
 
 “And not to forget, the commentary ,” adds the executive.
 
 We're decades away from the great American dream. That need not be the goal for Indian cricket, heading forward. But the million dollar question for the game's billion-dollar tournament is: Can it match up to the growing prerequisites of a sports fan and head the right way forward?
 
 To be fair to the Board, unwanted controversies have played their part in stemming growth. Collaborative approach with stakeholders, that should have been the case, went missing. Yet, it's a question that'll keep popping up this season.
 
 
