GURUGRAM: Around eight months after two women were gang-raped inside a factory in Mandpura, Pataudi, the special task force (SIT) formed to probe it claimed to have cracked the case by nabbing a gang of four people on Wednesday night.

 The gang, according to police, took hostage five labourers and robbed them at gunpoint before taking turns to rape the two women in the intervening night of January 29 and 30. The factory, situated in the middle of agricultural land, is an iron casting firm that produces iron moulds and machinery. The labourers lived in small quarters inside the factory premises, next to a poultry farm nearby.
 
 Police had announced a reward of Rs 1 lakh on them. The accused, police said, confessed that they were involved in several cases in Delhi and NCR. All the four were sent to seven-day police custody for interrogation. The four have been identified as Rajbeer alias Nahar Singh, who is from Jhajjar; Dharmu alias Hemant from Najafgarh in Delhi; Munna alias Lucky from Nangli Vihar in Delhi and Lambu alias Tulli alias Vinay from Faridabad. While Hemant was living as a tenant in Kadipur village Vinay lived in Gokalgarh village in Rewari, police said.
 
 The investigators suspected the gang’s hand in the gang rape of a mother-daughter duo in UP’s Bulandshahr also.
 
 The SIT said the gang also shot a guard of a farmhouse in Manesar when they failed to rob the valuables there. The gang, investigators said, held a family hostage at gunpoint and robbed them in a farmhouse in Bajghera. Similarly, they targeted a family in   too. The gang also robbed commuters after stopping them in Noida, Farrukhabad, Buland shahr, Aligarh and Mauhantabad in UP, according to the SIT led by ACP Tanya Singh (Pataudi).
 
 The SIT, during the course of investigation, found that the accused committed similar crimes in Rajasthan, Himachal Pradesh and UP apart from Haryana. Cops said the accused confessed that they had committed rapes and robberies in Rewari, Mewat, Mahindergarh and Jhajjar districts in the state and Alwar, Jaipur, Behror and Seekar districts of Rajasthan also.
 
 The gang was busted by a team led by inspector   in Delhi on Wednesday night.
 
 “They are habitual criminals who committed similar gruesome acts in other states as well. We have profiled them and are in a process of getting more information on their roles in other crimes. We will send a proposal to the state government for rewarding the SIT team that busted the gang,” said police commissioner Sandeep Khirwar.
 
 
