BHUBANESWAR: The   (ED) has sought the assistance of the CBI to trace combined assets, owned by Seashore Group, Artha Tatwa (AT) Group and  , worth over a staggering Rs 14,700 crore. 

 Though CBI and ED have been conducting parallel probes into chit fund scam, involving 44 companies, the frauds by Seashore, AT Group and Rose Valley are massive in nature, having interstate ramification. 
 
 While Seashore Group is accused of cheating investors of nearly Rs 587 crore, the ED so far attached the company assets to the tune of only Rs 185 crore. AT Group allegedly collected deposits worth over Rs 500 crore, but the specialized financial investigation agency so far got inkling of nearly Rs 121 crore assets of the firm. Rose Valley scam, considered as the mother of all chit fund frauds, allegedly cheated investors of nearly Rs 17,000 crore. But the ED attached Rose Valley assets to the tune of nearly Rs 295 crore till date. 
 
 On Friday, ED’s joint director Madhab Mishra called on CBI’s deputy inspector general   here and discussed measures to hunt for the hidden assets of the three companies. 
 
 “We have interrogated chiefs of the three companies several times to know about their assets. But they feigned ignorance of their assets. They shifted the blame on their respective managements, accusing them of having misappropriated the money,” said an ED officer. “We urged the CBI to give us details of people linked with the financial management of the companies. CBI assured us of all help,” the officer said. 
 
 CBI said  , one of the directors of AT Group, recently told the investigating officers that more than Rs 150 crore were illegally siphoned to the accounts of at least 25 directors, who are yet to come under the CBI scanner. “We will summon them,” a CBI officer said. 
 
 “We will also probe possible political funding by the AT Group as the company chief Pradeep Sethy had earlier told the media that he paid crores of rupees to different politicians as ‘protection money’,” the officer said.
 
