Nagpur: Even as the General Service Tax (GST) has been rolled out, the tax on products like ivory, tortoise shells, horns, coral and similar materials, which are banned under the Wildlife (Protection) Act 1972, has caused a flutter among wildlife buffs. Category goods under Harmonized System Nomenclature (HSN: 0507) where 5% GST will be charged refers to ivory, tortoiseshell, whalebone and hair, horns, powder and waste of these products, coral, civet and musk and other wildlife animal products. “Our worry is that despite ban on sale of ivory and other items, why it should appear in the GST Rate Schedule. It will send a wrong message globally, especially those who are not aware about the ban in India,” say honorary wildlife warden of Gadchiroli, Uday Patel. However, talking to TOI, wildlife and environment lawyer Kartik Shukul says though the ban on the sale of items mentioned in the schedule of GST is still in force, the fact that these items find a place in the schedule will not by itself override the provisions of the Wildlife (Protection) Act 1972. “Trade of these contrabands will still attract strict punishment under the Act. They have probably been mentioned in the schedule by oversight and the GST authorities must issue a clarification in this regard,” Shukul said. A local customs department official said, “Items that are banned will continue to remain banned even if they are in the list. These items are in GST Rate Schedule keeping in view of the global HSN system. It was there in the earlier tax schedules too.” He said import conditions for animal products state that an application for grant of a licence for import of animals, birds and reptiles (including their parts and products) has to be made to the Director General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) along with the recommendation of the chief wildlife warden of the state concerned. Import of wild animals (including their parts and products) as defined in the Act (as amended from time to time) is prohibited. Imports will be subject to the provisions of Convention of International Trade in Endangered Species (CITES) to which several countries are signatories. Wildlife conservationists have demanded that since these products are banned they should be completely withdrawn from the GST Schedule.