KOLKATA: The   on   on Tuesday morning   of a  , robbing her children of a mother a second time. The kids’ biological mother died around a year ago.

 Jyoti Singh was taking her children, Nitish and Sakshi, back from a new tuition class on Monday morning, when a Kalighat-bound tram ran her over on Rashbehari Avenue; while Nitish, a Class VI student, had already crossed the road, Jytoi and Sakshi were caught between two trams moving in the opposite directions. Even as they stood still, ensuring they did not touch the compartments, one of the trams hit the bag on Jyoti’s shoulders—she was carrying Sakshi’s bag—threw her off the balance and onto the tracks. Sakshi, a Class V student, also got dragged by the tram but she escaped with scratches, though Jyoti died of injuries at hospital. 
 
 Along with Jyoti, Sakshi and Nitish were Jyoti’s friend, Bimala Chhetri, who was escorting her son, Vinod, to tuition. All the three kids study at Svarna High School.
 
 Sakshi and Nitish are, however, unaware of Jyoti’s death. “My mother would always hold my hand while crossing the road. Even when the tram hit her, I tried to hold on to her but she was dragged away. When I opened my eyes, I saw her lying on the ground, blood spattered. I hope she is recovering,” Sakshi told TOI.
 
 The siblings lost their biological mother to dengue about a year ago. As they would be inconsolable, their grandparents convinced their father, Rajnish, to marry again. Rajnish, an oil-tanker driver, married Jyoti about eight months ago. “Jyoti would dote on the kids. An outsider would not even realize she was a step-mother,” said Tanima Dey, a resident of Lake Gardens where the Singhs live on rent. Ever since the accident, the children have been living with Bimala as Rajnish has been busy running from the morgue to home to crematorium. “The two kids think their mother is in hospital. They have been asking to be taken to her,” said Bimala.
 
 Jyoti would never let her impairment come in the way. She would keep in touch with the mothers of other students so that her kids did not miss out on anything. A trained beautician, Jyoti would concentrate on raising the kids, helping them out with their homework to preparing their favourite dishes. “I lost my mother once. I do not want to lose my mother again and go through that pain. I did not leave her hand when the tram hit her. I do not know how she got detached. I wish I had the strength to pull her towards me so that she was not dragged away by the tram. I wish I was carrying the school bag,” Sakshi told TOI. 
 
 
