Nagpur: While Itwari in Nagpur does provide a solution for all shopping needs, most   revellers choose to shun the option of buying dresses for the dance from the shops here. Instead, renting out dresses seems to be more popular.

 “Navratri outfits in Nagpur are not worth the money as patterns are not unique and the quality is average,” says Nutan Jha, who has been renting out Navratri outfits for six years. Jha sources new outfits every year from   in Rajasthan and Ahmedabad in  . Jha herself won prize for best dress at an event organized by  .
 
 “Pieces from Rajasthani Kutchi shawl stuck to a ghagra is getting popular, along with mirror work and kaudi. Peacock style dresses have also been booked for Sharad purnima,” she says adding that most tailors in Nagpur don’t understand how a chaniya choli is made. Jha gives jewellery, dress, along with coordinated outfits for groups as well.
 
 Pooja Khandelwal, a dance teacher from   who regularly rents dresses for herself and for the students of her institute Kala Niketan, says markets in Nagpur are not inventive with designs. “To win at competition level, you need dresses on different themes and special patterns,” she says.
 
 Dipali Chande, who lives Near Jagat Public School, Wathoda, has been sourcing traditional wear and accessories from Rajkot, Ahmedabad, and Vadodara. She rents it out under the name ‘Navrang’, with prices starting from Rs350 with jewellery. “A whole range of caps are popular this season along with hairy ghagra, ghagras with LED lights, Indo-Western outfits and jackets,” she says.
 
 One of the most popular names when it comes to renting dresses is Dimple Chatwani. A Gujarati, she designs her own Navratri outfits and gets them stitched at her shop called ‘Sankalp Garba Dresses’ at Shastri Nagar Square, in order to keep them unique. “This year, we have attached miniature potlis to the dresses and are also renting traditional Navratri caps with tassels, ghagra in gamthi work and also in velvet. I see a trend of golden work dresses,” she says, adding that the price range for rented dresses starts from Rs500 to Rs10,000 a day. She is in the business since 13 years and also has dresses for couples and children. 
 
