Hubballi: In the wake of North Eastern Karnataka Road Transport Corporation ( ) stopping services to the border villages in  , students of various educational institutions in   and patients visiting Vijayanagara Institute of Medical Sciences ( ) have been severely inconvenienced.

 NEKRTC stopped bus services to Andhra Pradesh villages lying 20km from the border from July 8, after the neighbouring state refused to renew the interstate reciprocal transport agreement. The Andhra Pradesh government’s refusal followed a stay order issued by the state’s high court. Hearing a petition filed by a private bus operator on the lack of clarity in the agreement about the number of interstate buses that could run within 20km from the Karnataka border, the Andhra Pradesh high court issued a stay asking the AP government not to countersign the permit of interstate buses operating in  . 
 
 Sources in   and APSRTC said that the interstate reciprocal transport agreement had been renewed on six occasions since 1988.
 
 NEKRTC divisional controller for Ballari SR Chandrashekar told TOI, “It’s not just us, even NWKRTC and KSRTC have stopped services to areas lying within 20km of the Karnataka-Andhra border.”
 
 Ellarthi, Gulyam, Aluru, Dargahonnuru, Palturu, Holagunda, Urakundi and Halvi are some of the villages in Andhra Pradesh that have been affected by the suspension of these bus services. Chandrashekar said that students who had availed of bus passed would be reimbursed. “It’s against the order to operate buses on these routes. However, we’ll run the buses till the border of Ballari,” he added.
 
 District general secretary for All India Democratic Students’ Organisation Suresh said that the stoppage of services had had an adverse impact on the daily activities of people in the AP villages, a majority of whom were Kannada speaker. “Students will now have to depend on private vehicles, and jeeps, which charge more. The two state governments must find a solution at the earliest,” he said.
 
 Eranna, a final year BSc student at Sarala Devi College, said, “A large number of Kannada-medium students from villages in AP travel to Ballari and Siruguppa. Cancellation of these buses has hit us hard.”
 
 Moreover, people in these villages relied on Ballari hospitals, particularly VIMS for treatment, and are now urging the two governments to resolve the issue soon. “The situation is serious. Both states should find a solution. There should be relaxation for patients visiting VIMS and other hospitals in Ballari,” said Devadas, a social activist.
 
 
