Gurgaon: The controversy surrounding the death of an 18-year-old woman in   has intensified, with domestic helps and assorted groups staging yet another massive protest outside the police commissioner’s office on Tuesday, seeking justice. 

 Police have announced the formation of a special investigation team (SIT) to probe the death of   Brahma. The couple who had employed Ranjeeta as their household help, has been booked for abetment to suicide, and joined the probe, with the   questioning them for an hour on Tuesday.
 
 “The SIT is being led by Harender Kumar, ACP (DLF). The accused couple was questioned by them,” said Deepak Saharan, DCP (east). He added the couple were senior corporate executives. They have been booked for abetment to suicide. 
 
 The afternoon protest had a large number of  , accompanied by members of Gharelu Kamgar Union (GKU), North-East Forum for International Solidarity (NEFIS) and All Bodo Students’ Union (ABSU). They shouted slogans and held placards demanding cops consider the case as murder and charge her employers of it.
 
 On the night of March 10, Friday, Ranjeeta , who was from Aasam, allegedly jumped from the balcony of the 11th-floor flat of her employer in the upscale Carlton Estate condominium in DLF Phase 5. Ranjeet’s family suspects foul play, alleging her had not allowed them to meet her earlier the same day. On Sunday, they had assembled in front of Sushant Lok police station and shouted slogans against the cops for not arresting the accused. At Tuesday’s protest, they met DCP (headquarter) Simardeep Singh and submitted a memorandum. “In the presence of the DCP (headquarters), members of the SIT accepted more sections of IPC need to be added to the case file. They assured us the accused will be arrested soon,” said Maya John, convener of Centre for Struggling Women.
 
 “Ranjeeta’s death reveals the coercive conditions under which domestic workers are made to work. Employers deny them even their basic rights. Coercion and abusive treatment of workers, especially those in a more vulnerable position, such as women from the northeast and tribal areas, are routine. The police are apathetic, and refuse to register complaints of victims against employers. We want speedy justice, or the protest will grow more intense,” said a protester.
 
 
