Kolkata:  , personally, may support the Centre’s demonetisation move. In his constitutional capacity as the head of the state, however, the governor turned out to be the sharpest critic of the November 8 move.

 Reading out nearly 17 pages while inaugurating the state assembly’s budget session on Friday, he said, “Demonetisation has had its own effect in West Bengal. A large number of people faced hardship and sufferings. The state government apprehends a substantial fall in revenue income. Lakhs of workers have lost their jobs and livelihood.”
 
 This was in sharp contrast to the views expressed in November 22 — a fortnight after the demonetisation measures were declared by the Prime Minister. Speaking to reporters on the sidelines of an Assocham programme in Kolkata, Tripathi had said, “The government has taken a bold step to root out the black money. Let us abandon the negative thoughts. This step will bring a sustained growth in country’s economy.”
 
 Former Supreme Court judge Asok Ganguly feels this is how the Constitution is structured. “The governor merely reads out a statement prepared by the state government,” he said. Under Article 176 of the Constitution, the governor has to address the legislative assembly at the commencement of the first session of each year. Tripathi too is well aware of it. A five-time MLA (three of these tenures spent as a UP assembly speaker), an ex-minister and a former senior advocate at the Allahabad high court, the governor has shown that he can also speak his mind even at the cost of antagonizing the state government — and CM Mamata Banerjee.
 
 Today, however, wasn’t the time or place for that.
 
 Tripathi said, “Hard hit are the small and medium industries sector, beedi, jute and tea garden workers, traders, shopkeepers and workers of unorganized sectors. Farmers are also facing difficulties. Cooperatives are also badly hit, for which agricultural activities are suffering. Workers of unorganized sector are facing hardships as they are unable to draw their salaries because of shortage of cash in banks and restrictions on cash withdrawals.”
 
 As soon as the National Anthem concluded after the governor’s speech, Left Front members marched towards the exit which Tripathi was to take escorted by Speaker Biman Banerjee and the chief minister. The protesters shouted that there was no mention of the law and order situation in the speech nor the Bhangar and Ausgram incidents. After Tripathi left, Mamata said: “There is a limit to uncivilized behaviour”.
 
 
