BHOPAL: Hospitals, like hotels will soon have a star rating. To begin with,   would be for   and above, across the state. The proposal under deliberation, aims at working out uniformity in charges across the spectrum and help ease cost of healthcare.

 An elaborate guideline for star rating of hospital is already being discussed at the Union government level for over two years. Taking a cue, Madhya Pradesh health department has set in motion process for coming up with benchmark rating.
 
 Department of health and family welfare director Dr KK Thassu said the proposal aims at fixing cost of healthcare services in private hospitals. “Variation in costs for procedures has to be justified. It is a Union government proposal that we hope will bring about transparency and give relief to patients in the state,” says Dr Thassu.
 
 Experts indicate benchmark rating for hospitals is not similar to rating services for hotel industry. “The question is not limited to patient charges. Rating of any healthcare facility has to attribute the quality and safety standards of any hospital,” said Dr Anoop Hajela, advisor, MP Nursing Home Association.
 
 From a patient’s standpoint, the initiative aims at having cumulative star ratings that would ideally fix cost of treatment. Other benchmarks will include cleanliness, staff behaviour, quality of treatment, equipment and infrastructure among others.
 
 “The best possible way forward is to classify hospitals between NABH and non-NABH,” said Dr Hajela. National Accreditation Board for Hospitals and Healthcare Providers (NABH) is a constituent board of  , set up to establish and operate accreditation programme for healthcare organisations. There are just three hospitals in Bhopal with full-NABH accreditation.
 
 “Two hospitals can have the same diagnostic machine. One can cost Rs 50 lakh and the other Rs 5 lakh. Besides, the new benchmark should factor in experience of doctors, equipment and facilities provided,” he said.
 
 Proposal for star ratings of hospitals awaits clarification of government stance and objections by private hospitals over the implementation of New Clinical Establishment Act. 
 
 For the moment, government focus is to define minimum facilities in hospital. As per policy, patients that receive aid from the state government for medical interventions, are only sent to accredited hospitals.
 
 The state government is set to include procedures for speciality services. It includes endoscopic surgeries, joint replacement, hip replacement, prostrate, hernia and advanced ENT procedures. Most of these patients would receive treatment in private hospitals.
 
