RANCHI: The   attending the   on Thursday heaped praises on the   for its prompt   and clearances to proposed investments inked during the   (GIS). 

 Gurgaon-based Orientcraft got the nod to set up a Rs 200-crore textile park in Ranchi. Its managing director Sudhir Kumar Dhingra termed Thursday's ceremony a significant day for the textile industry in eastern India.
 
 "When we met the chief minister last year, he wanted a labour intensive industrial sector which can stop the migration of state's unemployed youth," Dhingra said. Drawing comparison to the textile industry of Bangladesh, Dhingra said the industry, if nurtured well, can give competition to Bangladesh. 
 
 The Medicant Group of Hospital (Bokaro Sewa Trust) got land to set up a 500-bed hospital in Bokaro at a net worth of Rs 150 crore. Its managing director Majid said, "We have hospitals in New Delhi, NCR and Jammu & Kashmir. But unlike other states we got everything here on a single plate. What surprised us was the pace at which roads were built here to improve connectivity between cities."
 
 Entrepreneurs from the food processing sector also sounded upbeat. Uttar Pradesh-based rice bran oil manufacturer Chandra Prakash Agarwal said, "Investors with smaller capitals are always looked down in other states. However in Jharkhand, the chief minister himself took the initiative of laying the foundation stone of our plant (in Ranchi). In other states, CMs only lay foundation stones of public-sector projects."
 
 The positive feedback from the entrepreneurs will help the state government to build on its new image of an investor-friendly state in future, officers of the state industries department said. "The ground-breaking ceremony was hosted with the objective of assuring investors that the government is committed to promises it made at the summit," an officer said.
 
 The ground-breaking ceremony was envisaged by the Das government as a confidence building measure among the investors who inked memoranda of understanding (MOU) worth Rs 3.1 lakh crore. The Das government went into overdrive soon after completion of the summit. The CM directed senior officers of the department to provide land and environmental clearances to several projects within six months. Senior officers went around hunting for land in the outskirts of Ranchi and zeroed in on 150 acres of land in Oremanjhi, Nagri and Tupudana areas.
 
 
