INDORE: A steep fall in   this season has forced farmers to sell their produce below the government fixed minimum   in the market. Lack of government purchases and regular imports from overseas has dampened prices of pulses.

 Most pulses are trading below the   in the wholesale market but not much of the benefit has been passed on to consumers as retailers are not passing on costs of benefits, leading industry participants said.
 
 They said that farmers are suffering huge losses due to poor remuneration.
 
 A senior official from the agriculture department said, “The government has started purchasing pulses from farmers at the MSP at few centres. We will gradually increase the purchasing centres.”
 
 Industry players said the government is not purchasing much and the process of procurement is also very slow.
 
 They estimated that production of pulses in the country rose by close to 220 lakh tonnes this season as against 170 lakh tonnes a year ago leading to oversupply in the market.
 
 Madhya Pradesh is the leading producer of pulses in the country with a share of 35-40 per cent in the total country’s production. Indore is a major trading centre for pulses.
 
 Suresh Agrawal, president,   (Indore) said, “Farmers are suffering huge losses this season as they are forced to sell their produce at about Rs 1,000 below the MSP. Pulses are trading below MSP in the market and they are forced to sell at the available prices.”
 
 He said that tur is trading at Rs 4,300 per quintal and moong at Rs 4,500 per quintal in the wholesale markets as against the MSP of Rs 5,050 and Rs 5,150 respectively.
 
 Agarwal said most of the farmers in the region do not have the capacity to horde their produce due to which they have to sell at whatever prices are available in the market.
 
 Industry participants said that farmers are not even able to sell their produce in   due to stock limit that restricts the buying of traders.
 
 They apprehend farmers may reduce their sowing area for pulses next season due to weak prices this season.
 
