MANGALURU: Repeated gridlocks caused due to major functions, especially marriages, at the city’s major   on   has become a cause of worry for Mangaluru City Traffic Police. Such gridlocks paralyze traffic movement in the entire central business district area. 

 It also puts major strain on the already overstretched MCTP force which has its task cut out in dealing with the fall out.
 
 Taking note of photographs of one such recent gridlock caused due to a marriage at this convention centre posted on city police and media WhatsApp group, deputy commissioner of police (crime and traffic) M Sanjeev Patil held a detailed discussion with the management of the centre. 
 
 The discussion centred on steps that the management has to take to ensure that such situations do not arise in future and steps will be initiated on their response to the directives MCTP has given.
 
 Sanjeev Patil told STOI that one of the steps mooted is to ensure that the present entry and exit point opening to the main thoroughfare on M G Road is changed into an exit point only. There is a secondary entry point on the rear side of the hall through the Kodialbail (West) Road.
 
 “Since this road is narrow (just 30 feet), we are contemplating on the feasibility of making it a one way, given that it is also the road that leads to many residential houses in the area,” he said.
 
 There is also the question of vehicles coming to the convention centre and beyond from Kodialbail ( ) and going to Kodialbail (West), those from Kodialbail (West) towards Canara College, straight towards Kodialbail (East) or towards Lalbagh and those taking a u-turn at this busy junction to go towards Kodialbail (West) and towards the centre. 
 
 In addition to this, steps will be taken to ensure no motorcycles are parked on the footpath in front of the centre, abutting the wall towards  . 
 
 The management has been directed to come up with an electronic display centre on total parking available for vehicles based on realistic assessment. In addition, MCTP has also decided that that the management has to pick up the tab for deputing police personnel to manage such gridlocks as per a government order.
 
