AURANGABAD: The crime branch of the city police on Monday claimed to have busted a gang of women burglars after arresting four suspects while they were allegedly planning a crime in an upscale locality recently. Silver and gold articles have been recovered from the suspects, police said.

 Police said that primary investigation has confirmed the involvement of the arrested women in two recently committed house-breaking and theft incident in the limits of Jawahar Nagar police station.
 
 The suspects — Surekha Ashok Magre (21) of Kabirnagar, Kalpana Dashrath Shendge (20) of Phule Nagar, Indu Hiraman Dhavle (21) of Nagsen Nagar in Osmanpura and   (25) of Hina Nagar, Chikalthana — are on police records.
 
 All these burglars would carry a small child with them to avoid suspicion, police said.
 
 Crime branch inspector   said, “A close vigil was being maintained on them for the past several days. It was on Saturday night that they were caught red-handed while trying to barge into an apartment of an upscale locality.”
 
 He said that primary investigation has helped detection of a couple of property offences the women allegedly committed and there is a strong suspicion that they are behind a number of reported and unreported property offences in the city.
 
 Sawant said the suspects, with their expertise in breaking open different types of door locks, would also target locked houses situated in upper middle-class and posh localities. They have confessed to targeting several under-construction buildings also in the city, he said.
 
 The crime branch has handed over the women to the Jawahar Nagar police station for further interrogation, as they admitted to have committed a couple of burglaries in that area recently. 
 
 A sleuth privy to the case said that as a part of the modus operandi, this gang would knock on the door of a house and ask for water for the three-year-old child they took with them. “After diverting the attention of the house owner, they would pick up things from the house and hide them in their bags and leave after thanking the victims.”
 
