KANNAUJ: To anyone from a metro city, a visit to Kannauj is like going back in time. Single-lane roads with horse carriages used as transport are a common sight. 

 Mobile phone shops are the only brand stores while there is just one restaurant serving noodles and pizza. 
 
 However, locals in Kannauj are an excited bunch. Thanks to the Agra-Lucknow Expressway, the town’s connection with Lucknow has brought new cheer among its residents.
 
 “I can now go to malls in Lucknow for shopping. There are so many good brands there,” said Nitya Mishra. Till now, she and her friends would go to Kanpur for shopping. 
 
 For the business fraternity of Kannauj, the expressway is a means of wider avenues, with the link to Chaudhary Charan Singh Airport in Lucknow. “Taking flights to Mumbai, Bengaluru or Kolkata would be easier and cheaper now,” said Ram Mishra, a businessman. 
 
 “Till now, we went to Lucknow via Kanpur. Though the distance is just 85km, taking two hours, an equal time is wasted due to chronic traffic jams on the narrow roads. Now, the airport in Lucknow is a flat 90-minute drive from Kannauj city,” he added. 
 
  spokesperson Prashant Mishra said that sending parcels had become easier because of the connectivity to Lucknow. “Some businessmen are already posting parcels from Lucknow to save a day. Earlier, time was spent in transporting consignments from Kannauj to Lucknow via Kanpur. Deliveries are also faster,” he said. 
 
 Young boys are looking forward to studying in colleges of Lucknow. Surendra Katiyar, a farmer, is among those who benefited from the compensation against land acquisition. He dreams to see his son shine like cricket star Mahendra Singh Dhoni. 
 
 “My son plays cricket well. I will get him admitted to   in Lucknow,” said Katiyar, who has already visited the college for inquiry. 
 
 People also say that the Lucknow connection has blessed them with better access to health services. 
 
 “Kanpur was the place most people preferred for medical consultation. But now, the requests for referral to Lucknow have gone up,” said Dr Sandeep Kaushik, an ENT consultant at   in Kannauj. 
 
 
