LUCKNOW: Around 40km from   in  , in the heart of the most barren and remote lands of  , lies the beautiful, green patch of  . While hundreds of other villages in the   do not have most  , Paagdilpur has green farms, pucca houses, wells, a primary school, dispensary and even a maternity home.

 Just as you wonder how this village got a chance to develop while others are still grappling with acute drought and poverty , a local promptly answers, “It's not the government but a missionary organisation that has adopted the village and developed it.“
 
 “We are no longer dependent on the government's mercy but have developed our source of livelihood and are happy living in this little hamlet,“ the person adds. Around 130 people living in Paagdilpur are Christians who settled here from Sagar district of Madhya Pradesh in 1936.This village is a part of the Gidurha gram panchayat on the banks of Bardaha river.
 
 According to the locals, an organisation named `Christ -The King Mission' from MP had laid the foundation of the community and built a church here. It brought around 25 families with it and gave them jobs in various facilities developed by the mission. Prakash Lomio, a local while paying obeisance to a statue of Mother Mary in his house's courtyard tells TOI, “Can you believe we dutifully vote every time but without any expectation from the government? They never did anything for us. We are just about 25 families in this gram panchayat but haven't been given minority status so that the government doesn't have to take care of our needs. We have been living with this bias for 30 years.“
 
 While rest of the drought-ridden Bundelkhand waits for government's sops to build wells and ponds to fulfill water needs, Paagdilpur is self-sufficient enough to build its own wells, scientifically bored and deep enough to fetch groundwater.This place is also marked with healthy ponds and green farms. “Most of us are salaried as we work in the facilities deve loped by the mission. The rest earn through farming. The mission provides us books of UP board, medicines and treatment -all free of cost,“ says Mariam Mukul, another local.
 
 
