AMRITSAR: A day after PM   invoked national security to seek votes for the SAD-BJP alliance in Punjab, BJP president  , too, sought support for the tie-up on the plank of “national security and safety”. 

 Shah, speaking at a rally in support of his party’s Amritsar Lok Sabha bypoll candidate, Rajinder Mohan Singh Chinna, on Monday, urged the people of Punjab to vote for the SAD-BJP alliance for “communal harmony, and safety and security of the nation, from external and internal threats”. He said Punjab needed a government that could maintain communal harmony since the state was bordering with Pakistan. “It is not just Punjab’s election, but the election of nation’s security also,” he said.
 
 He said Punjab had safeguarded the rich tradition of martyrs, including Lala Lajpat Rai, Udham Singh and Bhagat Singh, and people of Punjab had always stood like a wall in front of any aggression, so they should vote for the party which had carried on the legacy of the state’s martyrs. “The ruling SAD-BJP alliance symbolizes communal harmony between Hindus and Sikhs,” he said.
 
 Without taking the name of any party, he said if someone tried to pose danger to the security of Punjab just to be its chief minister, Punjabis should decide whom to vote for.
 
 Punjab deputy chief minsiter   had accused Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) convener and Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal of staying in the residence of a Khalistan Commando Force (KCF) member while campaigning in Punjab. “Punjab has to decide who will be the ‘Sardar of Punjab’. You tell me, can the Sardar of Punjab come from Delhi?” the BJP chief asked the gathering.
 
 Taking on Punjab Conrgess chief Captain  , Shah said, “Amarinder prefixed ‘Captain’ before his name, but took orders from Rahul baba. I don’t understand what a kind of Captain he is.”
 
 He said voting for Congress would be akin to jeopardizing the security of Punjab.
 
 He went on to attack Kejriwal, saying that the people of Delhi had elected him, but were now trying to locate him. “Delhi’s CM is not seen in Delhi; he wants to be the CM of Punjab, Goa and Gujarat, but he doesn’t know that public knows it all,” he said.
 
 He alleged that AAP had made a series of promises in Delhi, but didn’t keep them. “I want you to make phone calls to your friends and relatives in Delhi and ask what the AAP government has done for them? You will know how these people are misleading Punjabis.”
 
 He went back on training his guns at the Congress. “Have you ever seen Amarinder in your constituency after he won the MP elections? He was known as an absentee MP.” 
 
 Taking credit for development in Amritsar, Shah said Modi and Union finance minister Arun Jaitley wanted to see Amritsar on the path of development.
 
