PATNA: The state government will challenge in the court the Centre’s decision to construct barrages in the Ganga between Haldia and Allahabad via Bihar for national waterways (NW)-1.
 
  “Bihar government is opposed to the construction of barrages at various points in the Ganga between Haldia and Allahabad under the national waterways-1 project, as it would obstruct the river water flow. We recently organized an international seminar on uninterrupted flow of the Ganga and we may also move the court to challenge construction of such barrages in the river,” water resources department (WRD) minister Rajiv Ranjan Singh alias Lalan Singh said in the state assembly on Tuesday while replying to the debate on his department's budgetary allocation of Rs3,814.06 crore. Later, the budgetary allocation was passed amid the opposition walkout over the minister’s speech.
  
  The Centre is developing NW-1 under the   with assistance from the   at an estimated cost of Rs4,200 crore. The project envisages development of fairway, multi-modal terminals at Varanasi, Haldia and  , strengthening of river navigation system, conservancy works, modern river information system, digital global positioning system (DGPS) and night navigation facilities, among others.
  
  Earlier, in the morning session, education minister Ashok Choudhary said the state government was soon going to work with UNICEF in five districts to improve the quality of education in government schools.
  
  While replying to a question raised by   member Sanjay Sarawagi, Choudhary informed the House that one block or ward in Patna, Vaishali, Bhojpur, Gaya and Nawada districts had been taken up under a pilot project in association with UNICEF for improving the quality of education in government schools. The minister added that the state government had introduced midterm assessment of students in government schools from academic session 2016-17 to improve the quality of their education.
  
  Choudhary also informed the assembly that the state government would undertake national competitive bidding for publishing books distributed for free in government schools. He said the education department was to take action against those school principals who had constituted management committees for development works without involving local MLAs.
  
  The BJP members created din in the lower House on the one-rank-one-pay issue of contractual teachers in government schools. Leader of opposition in the assembly Prem Kumar demanded immediate payment of salaries to around 4 lakh niyojit (contractual) teachers equal to that being paid to permanent teachers in government schools.
  
  The BJP members entered the well of the House during the zero hour and raised slogans against the state government. Following a few call attention motions raised, assembly Speaker Vijay Choudhary adjourned the House till lunch.
