NEW DELHI: The family members of Nishant, who was   while intervening to save the driver of a   from attackers, said this was not the first time he had tried to resolve a fight or argument. But, this time, things spiralled out of control and he was faced by goons who stabbed him thrice, killing him outside his favourite food joint near his house.

 Nishant’s family said he left home with two of his best friends around 10.30 pm, never to return.
 
  “Going to that food joint was a daily routine, but little did we know that this time he would risk his own life to save somebody else’s. I wish I had stopped him. I wish there was some way I could call my son back home in time,” said Nishant Arora’s grieving mother, Sarita.
 
 One of Nishant’s friends, Gaurav Sharma, is battling for life. 
 
 “He promised to be back in an hour, but since he did not return even by 12, I gave him a call. The first call was answered and I could hear people screaming in the background. I sensed something was wrong and kept asking what was happening,” said Chhaaya, his sister.
 
 “After a brief pause, the person on the other end of the phone asked me to reach hospital, saying my brother had met with an accident and was severely injured. I was shocked and immediately made calls to my relatives. All of us reached the hospital in no time, but it was too late. Nishant had already left us,” Chhaaya added.
 
 The injured person, Gaurav Sharma, and the deceased had been childhood friends. But since Sharma moved to Muzaffarnagar, they seldom met. 
 
 “Gaurav had come to Delhi for an exam two days ago and, like he always did when in Delhi, he went to meet Nishant and his family,” said Abhishek Sharma, Gaurav’s elder brother. “He called me around 11 pm asking me to join them. But as I was away, I said I would go out for dinner with them. It breaks my heart to see my brother battling for life, all because he tried to stop a fight,” said Sharma.
 
 One of their friends, Ashish Tyagi, who was also present when the fatal knifing took place, said he was unable to fight off or apprehend the assailants.
 
  “I often went to this food joint with Nishant but never had   a situation arisen. A group of men picked up a fight and stabbed my friends while they were trying to save the driver of the Swift car. The sight of my friends being stabbed will haunt me all my life,” said Tyagi.
 
