MUMBAI: The H-East ward is a tale of contrasts. More than half the ward, which comprises Mumbai’s business district Bandra-Kurla Complex, comes under planned development, but the presence of three crucial east-west connectors, the   (WEH) and an expanse covered by slums has turned the area into a traffic nightmare.

 While on the one hand, swank commercial buildings stand tall in BKC and areas like Kalina Village, the university area, Sunder Nagar, Gandhi Nagar, Government Colony and the Mhada buildings in Kherwadi have been developed systematically, multi-storey slums have cropped up in Behrampada, Golibar, the region along the airport boundary and Bharat Nagar in BKC. 
 
 “The slums can be developed only if the Centre comes up with a policy. The land belongs to government agencies like the defence, railways and airport authorities. Illegal parking is also an issue in the ward,” said Congress corporator (Kalina) Brian Miranda.
 
 Rush hours are particularly bad on the three east-west connectors—the Dharavi-BKC Road, Santacruz-Chembur Link Road, and the Kalina-Kurla Road. Officials said to ease the congestion, there are plans to construct a bridge connecting to   in Kurla to WEH at Santacruz. Two other small flyovers are in the pipeline to ease traffic at Kalanagar junction, they said.
 
 Civic officials said load in the ward is increasing as companies are shifting to the area and old Mhada buildings are going for redevelopment. “The access road to BKC from Bandra station is lined with slums, leading to jams. Slumdwellers need to be shifted to free the area,” the civic officials said. 
 
 Shifting slums, however, is a very sensitive issue in the area, said officials. “Lakhs of families have been living on encroached land since years. A decision to shift them can be taken only by political bosses in the state and central government,” the officials added.
 
 Congress corporator Gulista Shaikh from Bandra (E) said, “No development is possible without including slumdwellers.” The lack of co-ordination between government agencies is one of the reasons that has blunted action against encroachment. Most slums are on MMRDA or railway lands. Recently, a five-storey slum structure collapsed in Behrampada, killing five children. The incident forced railways to coordinate with the BMC to act against such structures but the drive lost steam after a few days.
 
 
