Nagpur: For a lyricist who has come up with words like ‘Womaniya’, ‘Jabra’ and Tain Tain’, Varun Grover did a lot of plainspeak in a conversation with Ajay Gampawar, organized by   at   auditorium on Saturday evening. “I try to revive words that are forgotten or are about to go extinct,” he said in a conversation which was laced with wit, humour and at times veered towards the philosophical.

 The story and song writer has also made a lot of sense with his ‘Thank You Kisan’ ad made for an agro firm. “Neeraj Ghaywan (director of ‘Masaan’) and myself we both donated our award money for the farmers. That money was given to us, we had not earned it, so what better way to utilize it,” said the writer who actually put his money where his pen is, about the cash prize from national award which he and Ghaywan got albeit for different films.
 
 A graduate from the prestigious IIT-BHU, Grover has made his mark in script writing, television shows and stand-up acts with his refreshing style of expression and soul stirring words “I began writing since I was 10 as I was reading a lot of books. Often I would give stories my own twist while narrating them to my friends. I understood that a writer is very ‘cool’ as he shows the world to his reader.”
 
 Speaking about his days in IIT, Grover, who honed his skills at the institute writing plays, says, “In Lucknow from where I come it’s your neighbourhood who decide what you shall become in life. But once I was in IIT I knew no one will question me about what I want to do or become now.”
 
 It was his association with director Anurag Kashyap which helped him get a toehold in the industry. Grover penned 27 songs for ‘Gangs of Wasseypur’ made by Kashyap. “Unlike the conventional manner in which songs are used in films Anurag uses them as an element of the mosaic that he is creating. They ring true and are very close to the language of the film and its characters.”
 
 Admitting that he uses his mind while writing a song but his stories are straight from the heart, Varun said, “In a song there are so many factors like the MBA guy who dictates how it has to actually match what his excel sheets throw up. But I write a story to satisfy myself. In fact, a story should complete both the writer and the reader who too should see his reflection in it.” Defending the purpose behind offbeat films which sometimes remain confined to festival circuits, Grover said, “We know that we have the basics of the work right. The attempt is to pull it to a level where a maximum viewers get to see it.”
 
 ends
 
 
