Looks like   is bracing itself for yet another strike in a span of less than a month. In the first week of July, it was the theatre owners in   who had gone on a strike to protest the state government’s imposition of 30 per cent entertainment tax in addition to the 28 per cent GST. Now, the Film Employees’ Federation of South India ( ) has called for a strike from today to express their displeasure over the way the Tamil Film Producers’ Council ( ) is reacting to its concern over the wage issue.

 
 On July 17, the outdoor shoot of the RK Suresh-starrer Billa Pandi was affected when members of the Technicians Union refused to continue work on the film unless their requirement for ‘double batta for journey’ (batta=daily payment) was met. Suresh, who is also producing the film, had then asked Vishal (actor and president, TFPC), whether he should halt the shoot and return. When Vishal advised him to return to Chennai, he did just that. This didn’t go down well with FEFSI members, who were in talks with TFPC regarding revision of wages. They’ve announced that FEFSI members will go on strike until their three conditions — TFPC should recall their decision to not work with FEFSI members; it should not reduce the wages that have already been agreed upon; and producers should start work only after signing the deal on general rules and policies that were earlier discussed — are met.
 
 
 Angamuthu Shanmugam (general secretary, FEFSI) alleges that it is unfair of TFPC to alter the practices which have been the norm for 
 almost four decades.
 
 According to him, TFPC is asking to reduce the number of employees and their wages in order to bring down production cost. Angamuthu Shanmugam explains, “There are around 25,000 members in FEFSI, with 24 unions (for each department). On an average, the employees have work for 10 days in a month. Generally, 12 lightmen are supposed to be in a crew while shooting. The TFPC demands that the number of lightmen, their call sheets and wages be cut down. If they are seriously concerned about production cost, let the stars reduce their salary for big films. They also seem to be confident about going ahead with shooting without the support of FEFSI, which I think is an immature decision. I have no idea how they are going to pull it off. Presently, there are at least 30 films which are under production. The producers of a good number of them, including Kaala, do not have a problem in paying the existing wage to employees. When that is the case, why does TFPC have to come up with new demands?”
 
 
 KE Gnanavel Raja (Honorary Secretary, TFPC) retorts, “We are not saying that we will not work with FEFSI members. We are just stating that we will not work only with FEFSI members. They’ve announced a strike from today, but I don’t think that should affect the shooting of films. We will work with technicians who are willing to work, and there are many of them.”
 More than 30 films are under production now, and the call for strike might affect their schedule and subsequent release plans. We hear that both the associations have been holding meetings before making any kind of final announcement.
 
 Till the time of going to press, there has been no update on the status of the strike. A source in the know tells us that a meeting between TFPC and FEFSI members is unlikely to happen. The source adds, “This is not the first time that both the associations have been on warpath. Earlier, in 2012, the fight had taken such an ugly turn that producers had decided to form a new federation with workers agreeing to work on their terms. Of course, it was sorted out within a few days. This time, too, everyone is hopeful of reaching an amicable solution. There are some policies that the FEFSI has, like having four members from every crew even for a small film, whereas just one member is enough to finish the work. If both the associations can work out favourable policies, it will be good for the industry.”
  
 
