DHARAMSALA: Atmospheric conditions at this high altitude will no doubt come to the aid of fast bowlers, but the pacy reputation of the HPCA Stadium could be at stake as teams enter the strategizing phase ahead of the fourth Test.

 One assumes local curator Sunil Chauhan and Daljit Singh, the BCCI's grounds and pitches committee's north zone head, weren't discussing the weather once they sat together after coach Anil Kumble and members of the support staff had done their bit, inspecting the pitch on Wednesday.
 
 The Dharamshala strip does have a reputation of sorts for being a rare heaven for pacers on the domestic circuit. But the venue is hosting a Test for the first time, in the aftermath of the removal of a BCCI regime whose presence is still marked by posters across the stadium. It is imperative that the venue's curators get it right the first time - with the series on the line, the team management will not want to give Australia an inch on the pace front, given Indian batsmen's traditional frailties in that department and the presence of Pat Cummins in the opposition.
 
 IPL numbers are no yardstick for a Test match, but in the absence of proper data it may be indicative of pitch trends at this venue: The average IPL score batting first is 176, which is better than the 146 batting second. Notably, in the IPL, 73.53 percent wickets have been taken by pacers, which is as one would expect given the venue's reputation. Before Australia get their tail up, however, it's indicative that in T20 Internationals, spinners surge ahead with 57.57 percent of the wickets! So a comprehensively toned-down version of the amphetamine-laced pacy version of the strip may be in order, necessitating a quick relook at India's playing XI.
 
 With Mohammad Shami back in the mix - his ability to last a full Test remains untested, however - and   waiting in the wings, will Kohli revert to his once-favourite five-bowler theory?
 
 In Ranchi, with the spinners overbowled, tired and out of tactics, a fifth bowler may have helped wrest an unlikely win, as Sunil Gavaskar suggested: “India clearly missed a fifth bowler (on the last day of the Ranchi Test). I'm not saying a fifth bowler would have ripped through the opposition but he would have just given a little bit of break to our hardworking fast bowlers.”
 
 With Ravindra Jadeja and Wriddhiman Saha both coming to the party with the bat, India may be tempted to revert to the five-bowler combo they ditched after the thrashing in Pune. That would mean exit for Karun Nair, but will it be entry for India's Pune line-up, with Jayant in the mix? This is where pitch-reading will come into the picture.
 
 Kohli, for one, had hinted after Ranchi that he was willing to punt on Shami. “I haven't spoken to the selectors yet but all kinds of possibilities are there before the next Test,” he had said on Shami's inclusion.
 
