VISAKHAPATNAM:   was observed this week to highlight the importance of saving water, but the condition of   in the   are not at all encouraging.

 The old maps of Vizagapatnam reveal that there used to be around 150 water bodies in and around Vizag, but now, not even five of these exist. Environmentalists stress the need to restore these water bodies to prevent severe water crisis in the near future as well as save the environment and biodiversity.
 
 Currently, just a couple of water bodies are visible in the city though in a shrunken state. The one in Vaisakhi Jalauddanavanam in Suryabagh has become a tiny lake due to concrete lining after a park was built around it. Another water-body near Kappulupada go-carting centre along the   has also shrunk due to road extension.
 
 Environmentalist and Intach member Sohan Hatangadi said, “Once, the water body near Yendada Junction was as big as three football fields put together and water used to be available round the year. In 2008, a water pipeline was laid alongside the pond and earth was filled by the side of the pond. Gradually, the pond reduced in size and the public began throwing garbage there. Water from the catchment area of   used to recharge the ponds which in turn used to replenish the wells. But now, bereft of any proper water body, Yendada is facing a water crisis.”
 
 “The pond needs to be de-silted and widened. Its embankments should be strengthened and a park and pathways can be developed around the waterside. Restoring the pond and beautifying it with greenery will also attract various species of birds and butterflies thus enriching the biodiversity of the area,” Hatangadi added.
 
 Professor of environmental sciences at Andhra University, Uday Bhaskar Reddy said, “The water bodies or wet lands help in storage of rainwater and keep the water table high. Clogging and covering them lowers the water table and leads to paucity of water in the surrounding areas besides adversely affecting the biodiversity.”
 
 Vaisakhi Jalauddanavanam in Suryabagh has become a tiny lake; Another water-body near Kappulupada go-carting centre has also shrunk due to road extension.
 
