NAGPUR:   may have defied his age of 101 years to remain fit enough for an evening stroll, but could not defeat fate as he was knocked dead by a pickup van on Monday. The accident took place on Amravati Road near Wadi police station. The van sped away towards Gondpipri after the incident and had not been traced until late Tuesday evening.

 Padoliya was crossing the road alone when he was hit by the vehicle, bearing the registration number MH 49 2049. Though personnel from the police station in the vicinity did not take much time to reach to accident spot, the centurion had sustained serious head injuries, leading to his death. 
 
 Although Padoliya’s Aadhaar card says his date of birth was January 1, 1916, his family members claimed he was 105 years old. Family members said that walking alone was nothing surprising for Padoliya as he would often travel 55km by himself from his native village,   in Katol tehsil, to reach his elder son Motilalji’s house at Dattawadi and back.
 
 Padoliya was survived by four sons, three daughters, 19 grandchildren and 27 great-grandchildren.
 
 Parashuram’s youngest son   said that his father had the occasional cold and cough but never had to be hospitalized for any reason. “Father did not had any trouble with his eyesight. He loved wearing sunglasses and would put on a jacket every time while riding pillion on a two-wheeler, even at this age. His age did not affect him physically or psychologically. We never saw him depending on others for anything,” said the son. He remembered how Padoliya would often like to speak about the pre-Independence era and how India achieved freedom.
 
 Family members said that Padoliya, who lost his wife Narmada around 25 years ago, was a farmer who tilled 15 acres at Wadona Karla without much support. A mild-mannered man, Padoliya had married off even his grandchildren to ensure they settled in life. Tea and paan were his favourites, but he occasionally indulged in a bit of chewing tobacco. “He was a teetotaller,” said another family member.
 
 “He went to Dattawadi on May 16 as there was a spiritual programme at my eldest brother’s residence. As he was comfortable walking and travelling, the family wasn’t bothered when he ventured out,” said a grandchild of the victim. “He was complaining of some digestion problem and wanted to buy medicines. He may have stepped out for a change and also buy medicines,” he said. 
 
 Meanwhile, Wadi police have registered an offence against the driver of the killer vehicle for rash and negligent driving leading to death due to negligence. The police are also now trying to recover   footage of some of the establishments along the road and also at the Gondpipri toll plaza. “It was the Aadhaar card in his pocket which had helped us to identify Padoliya. The date of birth on the card left us surprised,” said a cop from Wadi police station.
 
 
