MUMBAI: Two months after a statue of Mother Mary was   at  , another similar incident was reported at Gaothan village in   (W) on Wednesday morning. Locals said it was a case of mischief when Christians are observing Holy Week. 

 “It was 7am, when we were going for morning mass, when we discovered a slipper on a statue of Jesus on the Holy Cross below the skywalk on the station road. I immediately intimated other neighbours and called the  ,” said Mildred Carlos, a resident. 
 
 Police have registered an   against unknown persons under sections 295 and 427 (hurting religious sentiments and mischief causing damage) of the Indian Penal Code. A police team visited the scene and took away CCTV footage. “We hope to crack the case soon,” said an officer.
 
 Fr Nigel Barrett, spokesman for the Archdiocese of Bombay, said, “The Archdiocese and   of Mumbai are greatly disturbed by the desecration of the Holy Cross, when some vandals garlanded the statue of Jesus on the Holy Cross with slippers. The Holy Cross is revered among us Christians as the sacrifice of Christ on the Cross actualises the love of God for all humanity. The desecration of the Holy Cross, particularly during Holy Week, is both worrisome and disturbing and we do hope the police will be quick to take action.”
 
 Locals said police should immediately nab the culprits. Activist and advocate Godfrey Pimenta said, “We have been greatly disturbed by the desecration. We have also been informed that two vehicles belonging to the community, which had Christian symbols, have been damaged. This trend of damaging symbols of Christianity is on the rise every year, hurting religious sentiments of the community. We will protest if the accused are not caught and brought to book.”
 
 Nicholas Almeida from the Watchdog Foundation said it had been done deliberately to hurt the religious sentiments of the community. The Bombay Catholic Sabha stated that the community cannot be a mute spectator to the mischievous act of deliberate vandalism. 
 
 
