PANAJI: With only two days left for filing of nominations, the   is still struggling to finalize the nitty-gritties of an alliance or seat-sharing with its likely allies,   (GFP) and   (UGP) . The long-drawn talks which were initiated more than a month ago, gained momentum after the election commission of India fixed assembly elections on February 4.

 All   (AICC) general secretary   who arrived in Goa on Monday was having final consultations with leaders, but nothing has finalized yet, said Girish Chodankar, AICC secretary when enquired about the status of the alliance GFP and UGP. 
 
 Till date, Congress has announced names of 34 candidates date and expected to declare its arrangement for balance seats on Tuesday as well as status of alliance.
 
 The long-drawn talks which were initiated more than a month ago, gained momentum after the election commission of India fixed assembly elections on February 4.
 
 The picture has become murkier with one of the alliance partners, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) already moving away from negotiations and prospects of the elections becoming a multi-party contest to the detriment of the party.
 
 Asked if Congress has done away with NCP, Chodankar the Congress has already announced its candidates. It means there will be no coalition with NCP. 
 
 The NCP leaders have charged Congress playing ‘dirty game’ with them by dropping them like a hot potato. The Congress’ negations with GFP and UGP have changed contours with a rider of friendly fights and seat-sharing being introduced, but the parties not reaching any conclusive agreement over candidates. 
 
 Going by the past record, Congress party has been rattled by rebellion as its party leaders develop ambitions to contest, and those denied tickets are hardly known to support the party nominees. 
 
 Cuncolim, Once a bastion of the Congress, the constituency is expected to witness a multi-cornered fight. 
 
 The Bharatiya Janata Party is also witnessing rebellion this time, though on a smaller scale. A source said it will be a real struggle for Congress even in Salcete if doesn’t have its act together without further delay.
 
 In these circumstances, whether the party stitches an alliance with other parties or not, the Congress party would have found it difficult to curb rebellion and contain the ambition of its leaders. 
 
 
