For Kewal and Jaya, getting married was a decision that was fraught with roadblocks. Their families opposed the relationship, and all and sundry had something negative to say. ‘It will not work’, ‘This is not normal’, ‘It will create problems in your family life’… the remarks were varied. And the reason? The age gap between them. Jaya was four years older than Kewal. However, the two fought all opposition and got married in court. If you’re wondering all the ominous predictions from people came true, well, the couple recently celebrated their eighth anniversary and their relationship has only grown stronger over the years. “The key to success of our relationship is mutual respect, understanding and making efforts towards a better future. We do have our share of arguments, but at the end of the day, we sit down and discuss things like adults. We have rarely let the age factor trigger any fights between us,” said Kewal.
But are Kewal and Jaya an exception? A recent study revealed that greater the age gap, greater is the risk of a break-up. According to research, those with a five-year age gap are more likely to split than an equal-age couple, while the chances double when there is a bigger age gap. Couples with an age gap of just one year were the least likely to split.
  But does that stand true for India, where arranged marriages have traditionally focussed on a much bigger age difference between the husband and wife, with the husband being older to the wife? And even when the difference is much more than a year, is it necessary for the wife to be younger for the relationship to be successful? We spoke to experts to find out if age really makes a difference in a relationship.
 
 
 Today, the younger generation is showing a steady shift in attitude and markers, that used to be all-important, like religion, caste and age. Says Forum Lalka, clinical psychiatrist, “In the Indian context, we still adhere to the remnants of traditions towards an alliance between an older man and younger woman, but with changing times, Indian couples are now looking at the bigger picture. The age factor is becoming more and more redundant by the day.”  , a marriage counsellor, agrees. “Many a times, people working in the same office get emotionally and physically involved and ignore the age gap to get married, even if the wife is older than the husband,” he adds.
 
 
 According to Anand, couples should go the traditional way. “To ensure smooth functioning of a marriage, the husband should be three to four years older or at least one year older than his wife. Men feel that they are the uncrowned kings in the kingdom of marriage while educated and well earning girls find it hard to adjust to this fact. So, some women select a man who is of the same age or younger than them. However, this might result in rough patches as soon as the honeymoon phase is over, as the man will not want to be dictated. This will eventually lead to friction, resistance and challenges,” he opines. However, Lalka feels that the age factor is only secondary. “Each marriage is a tailor-made relationship and there cannot be an optimum age gap that will suit every couple. As long as two people share an understanding, are at similar wavelengths, and deal with issues that crop up in a relationship in a mature manner, age can never threaten their bond. People can be happy, in spite of the wife being older to the husband, as long as they strive towards a common goal — a content married life.”
 
 
 The simple solution, says Lalka, is to keep in mind that age is just a number. The old adage, she says, is as true as you want it to be. “With more and more Indian women being financially independent, and not being bogged down by the biological clock, we see a lot of couples with older wives and younger husbands. My advice to them would be to value their partnership rather than getting influenced by what society says. They shouldn’t let insecurities seep in,” she concludes.
 Anand says, “It depends on you and what factors you allow to affect your relationship. Your age can just be a number, if you treat it that way and don’t let anything come between the two of you. Both husband and wife are equal in a relationship and there shouldn’t be any sense of superiority or one-upmanship.”
 
 
 
