MARGAO: For this mountain village, situated 1,600m above mean sea level, the nearest polling booth is located in the adjoining hamlet that lies at the foothills of the Sahyadri mountain range. In the absence of a motorable road to the village, the over 150 voters from Vavurla in Barcem panchayat in Quepem taluka have to travel for over an hour through the steep and winding mountain pass and a dense forest, to get to Kiscond to exercise their franchise. Scaling the mountain to get back home is even more arduous, particularly for the women and the elderly, and takes them an hour-and-a-half!

 Despite the risks and discomfort associated with the mountain travel, this village has almost always registered a fairly good turnout in the past elections.
 
 “In recent years, candidates have been making some arrangements to facilitate their travel to cast their votes, by providing vehicles that can manoeuvre the narrow mud roadon the other side of the mountainbuilt by villagers,” panchayat member representing the hamlet,   told TOI.
 
 Every time politicians visit the village — which is invariably once in five years — the villagers confront them with their only plea — “Give us a road that will make our lives a little less difficult.” 
 
 The close-knit village, which comes under the Barcem panchayat, has a population of a little over 300 with 30 houses. Vavurla is 100% tribal-inhabited.
 
 For years, residents of the village have been treading this mountain path through dense forest. They traverse this path everyday just to connect to the nearest road and the outside world. Padi village, through which the NH-17 passes, is some 17km away from Vavurla, and it is from here that they board a bus, which takes them to Quepem or Canacona for their regular purchases and other everyday requirements.
 
 Schoolchildren have to trudge this treacherous path to get to the nearest school, the   high school in Gokuldem. Even if they choose to take the mud road that takes them to Challim — four kilometres awaywhich is connected to the main road leading to Gaondongrim in the Canacona taluka, further 11km await is still a hazardous exercise for something as routine as going to school. The government high school in Gaondongrim is the nearest school for the Vavurla students from the other side of the mountain.
 
 In the absence of a road, this village has remained excluded from even basic primary health care system. The nearest hospital is the primary health centre at Balli or Canacona, over 15km away.
 
 “In case of emergencies, we convert chairs into makeshift stretchers to carry the sick up and down the steep mountain path. It’s more difficult and worrisome when the patients are children or pregnant women,” Kirko Velip, a resident told TOI.
 
 “Our only demand is that the government provide our village with a road so that at least ambulances can fetch the sick from this village to the hospital. We have repeatedly put forth our demand for a road before our MLA, when he visits us every five years, before elections, but what we have been getting are just assurances. Vavurla is forgotten soon after elections,” Sukanti Velip, a 68-year-old woman, rued.
 
 The numerous springs in the mountain are the sole source of drinking water supply to the village. Pipelines were laid by the villagers themselves a few years ago to take spring water to a few public water taps in the village.
 
 The primary occupation of the villagers is agriculture, with most of the residents owning agricultural plots in Kiscond, at the foothills of the mountain. The Vavurla farmers take the mountain path everyday to till and nurture their fields.
 
 Quepem MLA, Chandrakant ‘Babu’ Kavlekar, who is seeking to get re-elected for the fourth time, blames it on the forest department for not getting the clearance for road construction. “It’s a forest area, and there is hardly anything we can do about it,” Kavlekar says, though he takes the initiative to repair the mud road after every monsoon.
 
 Prakash S Velip, who is the BJP candidate for the Quepem constituency, avers that his top priority, if he wins the elections, would be to construct the road to Vavurla.
 
 TOI was the first the highlight the plight of the village, in May 2015.
 
 The tribal welfare minister   had then assured TOI that the road would soon be a reality. “I have already proposed that the road be constructed under the adivasi vikas yojana (tribal welfare scheme). Once we get a clearance from the forest department, the work can be started. If things work to our plan, the road should be ready by September,” Tawadkar had said.
 
 Over 20 months later, villagers are still pining for the road.
 
 Another election, and it’s time for another assurance. Vavurla waits for their dream to materialize — the dream of a humble road connecting them to the rest of Goa. 
 
