KOLKATA: A student of  , Park Circus, was run over by a train at   on Thursday morning after he lost balance while scampering to board a moving train. According to witnesses, as soon as he set foot on the compartment, the schoolbag on his back got stuck to something, throwing him off-balance. He fell and slipped head-first through the gap between the coach and the platform and was cut into pieces.

 Ayovin Jana, a student of Class IX, was travelling home alone from school in a local train for the first time after obtaining permission from his father Arunabha as his final examinations were ending on Thursday and he wanted to return home by train like some of his friends. Every day, his father would drop him and fetch him from school on his bike. Arunabha reluctantly permitted his son, thinking “he was grown up and capable of taking care of himself”. The father’s confidence in his son stemmed from something Ayovin would often say — he will do so well in his examinations that top international organizations like NASA would come looking for him.
 
 Ayovin had boarded Budge Budge local at 11.20am. He was scheduled to get off at Majerhat station and then take an autorickshaw to his residence at Behala’s Pathakpara. Instead, his father received a call from GRP officers, asking him to reach their office in Ballygunge.
 
 “I was shocked. I could not believe my ears. The officer told me my son had an accident and died. How could this happen? I thought they had mistaken and rushed to Ballygunge GRP, only to find what the officer had said was true,” said Arunabha, who collapsed as soon as he was shown the boy’s disfigured body. 
 
 Mother Debjani, who works at the  , reached Kolkata around 4pm. “Some of our colleagues are bringing her back home. She is shocked and fainting from time to time,” said one of Debjani’s colleagues who reached   where the post-mortem was conducted.
 
 Ayovin’s family shifted to the Pathakpara house recently. Arunabha is a sales executive.
 
 Around 5pm, Arunabha reached NRS to fetch his son’s body. He broke down when Ayovin was being put in the hearse. “He was very good in studies. He would tell me he will gain admission in institutions of higher studies on merit and not by paying money. He would often say he would study so well that organizations like NASA would come looking for him,” said an inconsolable Arunabha.
 
 Ayovin had also told his parents he will visit his maternal uncle’s place on Friday. “Ayovin was a very jovial and chirpy boy. He was not only good in studies but also in extra-curricular activities. He was scheduled to come to my Uttarpara residence as his exams got over on Thursday. Everybody was looking forward to his visit,” said his maternal uncle.
 
 Arunabha can’t forgive himself for allowing his son to travel alone by train. On Wednesday night, Ayovin had requested that he would go to school and return with his friends since it was the last day of exams. On Thursday, Ayovin travelled to school by train for the first time. “I thought he is growing up and is a responsible person and allowed him. Little did I know I will regret it today,” he said.
 
 Pathakapara residents were shocked. “We cannot believe Ayovin is no more. I will never see him leave for school every morning, riding pillion on his father’s bike. He would touch my feet for blessings whenever he saw me on the road,” said Sourav Dafadar, Ayovin’s neighbour.
 
 The school authorities could not be contacted.
 
