JAIPUR: Five persons, including a woman, were killed and several others critically injured in a major explosion in a   in   under   on Friday morning. 

 According to police, the first explosion took place at 9.30 am inside the warehouse owned by one Kailash Vyas, situated in the middle of a residential locality of Songiri Kund. District collector Anil Gupta told TOI that Vyas had no licence to store crackers in this house.
 
 Victims have been identified as Balraj, Zehran, Mohammad Hafeez, Safel and Vijay.
 
 The injured have suffered severe burn injuries and are undergoing treatment at different hospitals in Bikaner. "The first explosion was so intense that the building where crackers were stored collapsed like a house of cards. One nearby building also suffered huge damaged and collapsed," an official said, adding that burning crackers shot out all around.
 
 Local residents made a dash to rescue injured and those who were trapped under the debris of the warehouse. Police control room also informed the State Disaster Relief Force (SDRF) about the mishap. However, the rescue operations were stalled for several hours after ambulances and fire tenders couldn't enter into the narrow lanes of Songiri Kund area. Victims and injured were dragged out by their neighbors on their shoulders. "The localities rushed the injured to ambulances that were parked outside the streets. Similarly, fire fighters took dragged water pipes into the area the area to douse fire," an official said, adding that while fire as doused by 11.30 am, some crackers continued to burst.
 
 The police and SDRF teams evacuated the nearby buildings and snapped the power supply to the area. The four victims are said to be the workers, however, they have yet to be identified by the police.
 
 Speaking about the mishap, Bikaner district collector Anil Gupta said that owner of warehouse has been identified as Kailash Vyas. "He had licence for manufacturing at a different location. We have conducted and inquiry and found that Vyas did not have any permission to store the explosive crackers in this residential area," Gupta told TOI over phone. He added that debris is being removed to check if there any people who were trapped inside.
 
 
