Minister for education C Raveendranath has said there should be a comprehensive change in the conduct of state school arts festival in accordance with the changing times, and for this the festival manual would be amended before the next year's festival.

 Brainstorming session would be held in February as a prelude and this will be followed by discussions and workshops to gather and collate valid recommendations for the amendment of the festival manual, he said during a media briefing here on Tuesday.
 
 “This is the beginning of a discussion to change the manual before next year's festival, and we all should be ready to welcome the changes, according to changing times,“ said the minister, adding that the positive aspects of the amendments in the manual should reach the people.
 
 Throughout the discussion, the main issue was the increasing number of appeals and the unhealthy competitions dampening the festive spirit of the biggest art festival in Asia.
 
 In order to make the appeal system fool-proof and to prevent an excessive number of appeals reaching the state festival, it was suggested that they should be settled at the district-level and the final participant list should be finalized well in advance.
 
 The general opinion was that the lure of grace marks is what makes the students and their parents to move appeals and hence should be regulated. The festival should not be a celebration of money, but talent, opined the people who took part in the discussion. Some suggested that the poor students be provided financial assistance.
 
 The parents continued to exhibit their `combative nature' especially in dance venues where the schedules were affected due to the increasing number of appeals. By Tuesday evening there were 610 lower appeals and 47 higher appeals.
 
 “In many venues the increase in number of participants has caused overcrowding in greenrooms and it was with great difficulty that we managed to do the make up,“ said Savitha P, a parent who escorted her daughter who was participating in the Mohiniyattam competition in higher secondary category.
 
 The festival gathered mo mentum on the second day with more people attending the events.
 
 “In the forenoon, there was not much crowd for most of the events including classical dance forms. One reason could be that three dance competitions were going on in three venues in the same vicinity,“ said Sajikumar A from Alappuzha. However, by afternoon people started pouring in, especially to watch popular events like Oppana.
 
 Competitions in events like Kathakali and Ottamthullal organised in the less prominent venues failed to attract crowd. The general feeling was that there should not be any `step motherly' attitude towards the classical art forms.
 
