PUNE: Landowners in Purandar taluka have decided to restart their agitation against the proposed new international airport project. 

 The villagers of the area, about 40km from Pune, decided on Saturday to exercise caution before signing any documents that are sent by the district administration. The villagers also said that their options have narrowed down and they think taking legal action is the only way out.
 
 On Friday, Maharashtra   (MADC) vice-chairman and managing director   had announced that the contract to prepare the DPR and develop the new Pune airport was given to Dorsch, a German company. He had added that the houses in the seven villages under the purview of land acquisition Pargaon, Udachiwadi, Vanpuri, Kumbarvan, Ekhatpur, Manjauri and Khanauri will not be touched. 
 
 Rejecting this statement, a villager told TOI, "The decision taken by the state government is nothing but a means to confuse and perplex us. It seems that they don't know, or are trying to pose as if they don't understand, the essence of villages and what villagers want. They have said that the houses will not be touched and will remain as it is. However, they fail to understand that more than 90% of the village consists of farmers who have plots, which will be taken up for acquisition. What will a farmer do without his land? Without one's plots, the farmers will be left at the mercy of the state government, which may not provide an alternate source of income. Besides, for a farmer, farming is the only perfect source of income and is the only job he knows." 
 
 Since the announcement was made about the new airport project last year, the area has seen many protests. 
 
 President of Vimantar Virodhi Sangharsh Samarthak Sanghatan, Datta Dhurenge, said, "We have an important meeting coming up in two to three days in Pargaon. Our options have narrowed down with the government bent on taking away our plots. In such a scenario, we will have to knock the doors of either the Bombay high court or the  ." 
 
 Deepak Memane, a member of the association, said, "We let the state government carry out the obstacle limitation survey after initial protests as we thought being unlawful was wrong. The government may do whatever it wants to in connection with the project. However, they will surely need proper paperwork when it comes to possessing our plots. We are the owners and they cannot take it from us unless we consent." 
 
 Memane added that the villagers have decided to stay alert and not sign any documents that may be related to this issue.
 
  Calculations begin 
 
 Sources in the Pune district administration told TOI that initial calculations in connection with land acquisition and compensation were being done. 
 
 On Friday, collector   had said that Rs 2,000 crore was expected to be spent on land acquisition and added that the affected villagers would be given options of three to four compensation packages so they could choose the best one. 
 
 "Right now, the work on the package is going on. An estimate is being made on the number of people who can be affected due to the acquisition and the number of plots belonging to landowners which might be acquired" an official said.
 
