The word cosplay is a portmanteau of costume and play, referring to the art of dressing up and pretending to be popular fictional characters, usually from science fiction, comics or anime. In the West, where cosplay is a multimillion dollar industry, cosplayers are no less than celebs. Indian cosplayers may not have attained that star status yet, but many of them are slowly turning to it full-time now. Professional cosplayers – although few – are a quickly growing tribe in the country. Delhi, particularly, is home to several individuals who cosplay full-time or in a semi-pro setting, earning good money from it round the year. We take a look at the pros of the field from the city.

 
 
 For most cosplayers, the foray into the field began as a hobby or chance encounter that eventually grew into something more substantial over the years. Twenty-three year   proudly claims to be one of the first cosplayers in the country. “I started in 2010 when there were no conventions in India. In fact, I didn’t even know what I was doing was called cosplay,” she says, adding, “I was a fashion design student at NIFT as well as an anime buff. I combined the two and designed costumes of some of my favourite characters. It was later when I researched that I realized that what I was doing was already a global phenomenon.” Today, Akanksha travels around the country participating in various cosplay events and has even worked in the promotional campaign of Captain America: Civil War, where she cosplayed as   for a cinema hall chain.
 For 26-year-old graphic designer Gaurav Thakur, cosplay happened due to his urge to create a Spiderman costume. He says, “I am a big Spiderman fan and when Comic Cons began in India, I wanted to go as Spiderman. The first costume I made in 2013 was ridiculed, after which I decided to learn how to make a proper costume. I ended up winning the competition the next year, which helped me get a couple of gigs and workshops in Delhi.” How important cosplay is to Gaurav becomes evident when he tells you that he rescheduled his December 2015 wedding as it was coinciding with the Delhi Comic Con.
 
 
 
 Cosplayers say that even though the money they get is way less than what some of their western counterparts make, it is quite healthy. Cosplayers are usually hired by companies – mostly gaming companies or film studios – to dress up as their characters at big events or launches of their next product. Events like comic book launches, film promotions and game launches are where these cosplayers make the bulk of their money. In addition, senior cosplayers are also invited to judge cosplay competitions across India and sometimes abroad as well. Aorin Shariyari, a 24-year-old Delhi-based cosplayer, says, “The money depends on how famous a cosplayer is, which is determined by their social media followers. The more popular you are, the more a company will pay you. For a 2-3 hour gig of judging an event, I charge about Rs 10,000, but for a bigger event where I have to make my own costume, I charge as much as Rs 25,000 per day.” Aorin has been working full-time with a gaming company since 2014 as their official cosplayer, a job for which she draws a monthly salary.
 Another avenue of making money in the world of cosplay is by conducting workshops or participating in other promotional events held before big comic cons.  , a 27-year-old who cosplays as ‘The Procrastinator Man’, says, “Winning competitions is the easiest way to get gigs because that tells people that you have skills. After I won the grand prize at Delhi Comic Con in 2013, companies started approaching me and I conducted a few cosplay workshops for beginners as well.” The growing popularity of cosplay in India can be gauged by the fact that later this month, India will host the first ever National Championship of Cosplay, which will see winners of the cosplay competitions from different comic cons across India compete against one another.
 
 
  
 
 
 
 But dressing up is not the only way one gets to earn money in cosplay. There are a number of allied support jobs at hand too. Apart from being a cosplayer, Akanksha Sachan also doubles up as a seamstress, designing costumes for other cosplayers for a commission. She elaborates, “I am a designer by qualification and making costumes comes naturally to me. Not everyone who wants to cosplay is as adept at that and the costumes available online are too expensive. So, many people outsource parts of their costumes, or at times their entire costumes, to me.” Akanksha gets as many as 20-30 orders from cosplayers before every Comic Con, which comes out to over 100 costume orders in a year. While most orders are from India, she has received some commissions from as far as the UK and the US as well. “The price depends on how simple or elaborate the costume is and the material used. Basic costumes can be as cheap as Rs 3,000 while the most expensive one I sold was for $500 (approx Rs 34,000),” she says.
  has a unique job at the comic cons in the country. He is the official cosplay medic at hand. Rohan, whose day job is as a solution designer for Tech Mahindra, says, “My job is to make sure that the cosplayers get everything they need, from duct tape to minor reinforcement in their armours and costume, particularly during competition. I did this for the first time in Mumbai Comic Con 2015, after which I approached   (which organizes all the comic cons in the country) with the idea and they hired me to be their official cosplay medic for all conventions in the country.”
 
 
 
 Since many of these cosplayers leave cushy jobs or come from completely alien fields, they receive little support or encouragement from their families. Aorin says, “I have a master’s degree in social work and used to work in the Saudi embassy. Even though I’m doing pretty well for myself, my mother often reminds me of my educational qualifications and what I left for a life in cosplay.” Gaurav Thakur adds, “My parents have no idea what cosplay is. They would ask me, ‘Will you dress up and perform at kids’ birthday parties?’ To them, it’s all very undignified.”
 But many families come around after realizing that cosplay can be a viable profession too. Ajay Kapoor, who has a daytime job of a software engineer, says, “Initially, there was resistance from my family, but as cosplay became a source of income, they grew used to it. It’s self-sustaining now, so they don’t mind.”
 
