KOLKATA: Five persons were arrested on Wednesday night by the   for allegedly   of a top   for the past one week. 

 The arrests were carried out from the Chinar Park area at Baguiati after passengers travelling in a Dankuni-Karunamoyee bus realized a woman was being stalked. As the group of five continued teasing the woman, the passengers protested and ensured the five men couldn’t leave the bus till they were handed over to the police.
 
 This comes days after footages of young women being stalked, groped and molested on New Year’s Eve surfaced in Bengaluru. “It is heartening to know people in Kolkata did not tolerate the crime. We are hoping we can live up to this reputation,” said an investigating officer from the Baguiati police station that carried out the arrests.
 
 “We had received a complaint from a 23-year-old woman executive who travels from Belghoria to her workplace that she was being regularly stalked from the bus-stand to her office. Initially, she had ignored the gang thinking they would stop harassing her. 
 
 However, for the past one week, they had been not only following her but passing obscene comments. On Wednesday, when she boarded the bus from Durganagar on the Karunamoyee-Dankuni route, the accused began teasing her. It became clear they had followed her back close to her residence. 
 
 The woman finally approached the Baguiati police traffic outpost at Chinar Park crossing who acted promptly,” said the investigating officer. The accused were arrested immediately.
 
 The police said they are investigating the case in detail. It seems the accused — identified as Bakibullah Mondal, Sk Alauddin, Mehbub Mondal, Apurba Sil and Jasim Malik — are residents of Habra and Ashok Nagar and involved in the booming real estate business in the area as labourers and overseers.
 
 “They were aware young women visit this office — both as aspiring airhostesses and as employees of its travel business wing — and stalked them. We are studying CCTV footage of the area. We have slapped sections IPC 354D (follows a woman and contacts, or attempts to contact such woman to foster personal interaction repeatedly despite a clear indication of disinterest by such woman), 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman) and 34 (common intention),” said an officer.
 
 Since 2013, when the offence of stalking was introduced in the Criminal Amendment Act, the number of FIRs being filed has been rising. Though the NCRB did not report data for Section 354D Indian Penal Code in 2013, it said 441 FIRs were pending investigation by cops in the beginning of 2015. 
 
 However, this number is just the tip of the iceberg, say experts.
 
 “Most women do not come forward. To avoid a stalker, they may change their route of travel or change jobs,” says advocate Subhankar Bagchi. That the stalker had the audacity to murder a Behala girl in Pune is because she hesitated to go to court. The quick action here though helps send a strong signal, says Bagchi. “The targets are picked for their vulnerability. The accused will see if you are a non-resident of the city, if you’re living by yourself, or you don’t have roots in the community, as these things help in creating protective buffers,” he said.
 
 
