PUNE: “I have killed my wife and  . Please arrest me.” 

 Devichand Brahmane’s startling admission as he walked into the   in Ahmednagar was enough to rattle head constable S K Phatanare on Tuesday morning. 
 
 “The first thing I did was to alert my seniors and then take the middle-aged man into custody,” Phatangare told TOI. 
 
 When the police team reached Brahmane’s house near Padmashri Vikhe Patil (PVP) College in Loni, nearly 200km from here, the scene was horrifying. The bodies of Brahmane’s wife and their two daughters were lying in blood, while their son was found dead in another room, said Ranjit Galande, assistant inspector of the Loni police station.
 
 Galande told TOI that Brahmane hacked wife Sangita (35), daughters Nisha (15) and Neha (11) with an axe and throttled his son Harshvardhan (7) to death. All of them were asleep when they were killed. 
 
 Prima facie investigations revealed that Brahmane was undergoing psychiatric treatment for eight years, Galande said, adding that he is a graduate and his financial condition is sound. He owns about eight rooms near the PVP college and has given them on rent. “He also owns a restaurant and has given it on rent as well. Besides, he has been collecting parking fees at the weekly livestock market in Loni,” Galande said.
 
 The assistant inspector said the murders happened around 3am, when everyone in the family was fast asleep. “Brahmane throttled his son to death and then hacked his wife and two daughters to death,” Galande said.
 
 Brahmane was in the house till 7am. “He had planned to end his life and tried to write a  ,” the officer said. He later changed his mind and reached the police station at 7.20am to surrender. 
 
 The police said Brahmane cited “a strange reason” for killing his wife and children. “Brahmane told us that he has done nothing in his life, apart from getting married, constructing a few rooms and giving them on rent. He feared that his son will do the same thing, which he did not want and hence killed everyone,” Galande said.
 
 On searching Brahmane’s house, the police found prescriptions by a Shrirampur-based doctor. “He was under the doctor’s treatment since 2008,” Galande said.
 
 Deputy superintendent of police Sagar Patil is investigating the case. 
 
 This was the second such crime in the last three days, in which a family head killed his family members. On Sunday, 42-year-old Deepak Hande was found hanging from the ceiling fan in his house at Dattanagar in Katraj, Pune. His wife, Swati (35), and their younger daughter, Vaishnavi (12), were found dead in the bedroom. Vaishnavi’s elder sister, Tejas (15), was found dead on a bed in the living room. Hande had allegedly strangled them to death with a wire before committing suicide.
 
