BHOPAL:  , a resident of   for his and family’s   for better part of the year. There are many like him in this area and other places, brought in the ambit of Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC) limits three years ago, who face the same fate.

 Another summer season has started and there is no solution in sight here and other areas facing water problem. 
 
 “We were expecting laying of new water pipeline to resolve the issue. As things stand, it won’t become a reality this year. We will depend on BMC tankers for water supply. The other option is to purchase water from private operators,” Sharma said.
 
 Sharma and family are part of the population of more than one lakh struggling for water everyday in a city of lakes. “Groundwater level plummets to the level after which drawing water is not possible in some parts of Kolar. The civic body had made additional budgetary provisions for catering to needs of affected areas,” said BMC additional commissioner MP Singh. A special task force, headed by zonal officer, has been appointed to monitor day-to-day supply and demand. Going by conservative estimates, water level has dropped by over 50% compared to last decade in the area, much of which is due to construction boom.
 
 As a water pipeline for more than one lakh Kolar residents is still in the works, the BMC last year suggested adding five new tube-wells in each ward to ease the situation. A tubewell caters to around 100 families or about 500 people.
 
 A water tanker of 5,000 litre capacity is being sold for Rs 600 to Rs 1,000. Though the state capital was blessed with an above average monsoon last year, many areas already reel under water scarcity. It includes Idgah Hills, Koh-e-Fiza, Aish Bagh, Kolar, parts of TT Nagar, Saket Nagar, Panchsheel Nagar and Karond.
 
 BMC needs more water tankers. There are only 100 water tankers, private included that operate under civic body ambit.
 
 Those struggling for water are at the mercy of private tankers, which make Rs 50 lakh per day, according to estimates. 
 
 BMC officials claim bringing Narmada water to households is nearing completion. However, it still covers less than half of the city. Narmada water supply accounts for some 185 MLD per day of 458 MLD supply in the city. 155 MLD is pumped from Kolar and 118 from Upper Lake. The water is sufficient to meet needs of around 20 lakh people.
 
 BMC estimates indicate, each ward needs around 50 tankers every day. The demand goes up during summers. Going by human development index assessment, there should be a tanker for a population of 2,400 households. The need for water tankers in Bhopal is roughly 833, going by human development index assessment.
 
 Wait continues for piped water at Bhauri
 
 Dubbed as a hub for education institutes of national importance, Bhauri, on the outskirts of the state capital still awaits regular piped water supply. Three years ago, the civic body had formed a committee to look into a proposal to supply water to upcoming township from the Upper Lake. The project, pegged at Rs 17 crore, is yet to see the light of the day.
 
 On Tuesday, students from School of Planning and Architecture (SPA), Bhopal, met Bhopal MP Alok Sanjar to wish him on his birthday. Taking a leaf out of Gandhigiri, students urged the MP to look into water problem and other infrastructure issues at the central government-run institute.
 
 The SPA awaits laying of an 11 km long 400 mm pipeline to Bhauri from the Upper lake. Among the institutes are in the same area Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER) and National Institute of Fashion Technology (NIFT).
 
 Neither civic body nor district administration paid attention to repeated pleas of affected stakeholders. “HRD ministry also pointed out the need to take measure to resolve issue of water scarcity at Bhauri,” said an official from a premier institute.
 
 When contacted, senior BMC official said an MoU with the SPA was for setting up of augmentation plant and use of land for laying pipeline. Around 5 mgd water supply capacity would soon be functional from two treatment plants at Bairagarh. 
 
 A Nagpur-based company was approved and provided mobilisation advance for laying 11 km pipeline. “It would take another year for completion of the project,” the official said. 
 
 Students studying at the premier institutes would have to bear this summer season.
 
