GURUGRAM: Amid rising demand in  , the operational (OP) circle of   (DHBVN) Gurgaon has finally been split into two smaller ones, to improve its operational efficiency and ensure better power supply during summers, when the demand is at its peak.

 TOI had reported in December last year about   officials raising concerns about the city’s rapid expansion, which has lead to “new emerging challenges”. The city had sprawled exponentially since the office of the existing superintendent engineer (SE), who heads one operation circle, came into existence.
 
 Officials said the discom’s revenue has grown exponentially in the last 15 years; from Rs 20-25 crore in 1999-2000 to Rs 400 crore in 2014-2015. The present day Gurgaon, spanning sectors 1 through 57, is soon expected to have more sectors and expand till Sector 115. The discom’s historic peak load — 1,450 MW, in summer 2016 — is expected to reach around 3,200 MW by 2031. A study by officials has revealed that if load expected from new sectors is factored in, the demand would likely soar up to 5,000 MW by 2031.
 
 Dogged by these concerns, DHBVN officials in Gurgaon had appealed for bifurcation of the existing circle and creation of another office of SE to oversee the other half.
 
 “In order to ensure full utilisation of manpower, proper co-ordination, accelerate the pace of development works, for redress of grievances by local residents and to provide hassle-free service to consumers in Gurgaon district, it has been decided to post an additional superintendent engineer in the DHBVN Gurgaon OP circle, which will be designated as SE, OP circle DHBVN Gurgaon 2, after bifurcating the existing OP circle,” the copy of the order read.
 
 A total seven out of 15 subdivisions across Gurgaon will now constitute OP circle Gurgaon 2, while the rest will be called OP circle Gurgaon 1.
 
 The SE for Circle 1 will be Naveen Verma, who previously headed the entire undivided circle. The new post of SE has been filled by K C Aggarwal, who previously served as SE (operations) in Bhiwani.
 
 “The seven sub-divisions under me are going to be DLF City, South City, Maruti, Badshapur, Sohna road, Sohna and Tauru,” Aggarwal told TOI. “The rest will be taken care of by Mr Verma.”
 
 
