CHANDIGARH: The   has held that once the trial of a case is in progress, the information related to the case cannot be provided to the accused under the Right to Information (RTI) Act. HC passed these orders while dismissing a petition filed by former Haryana DGP M S Malik who was seeking information related to documents on the basis of which he was booked by   in 2006 regarding alleged irregularities in the selection of police constables.

 CBI had denied the information, submitting that the investigation in the case might be over but the offender’s prosecution continues and therefore, would be compromised if the required information, as such, is allowed to be acceded at the request of the petitioner.
 
 Dismissing Malik’s petition, Justice   of the HC held that the apprehension put forth by CBI, is actual and not a mere camouflage to deny the information.
 
 “The procedure or the methodology involved in the investigation, as such, would also be, thus, exposed and would lead to hampering the prosecution case, if, at this stage, the information is supplied which is of vital public interest. The intrusion into the supervision, as such, of the investigation, which is sought by an accused person, would only expose the officers to the external pressures and constrict the freedom with which the investigation had been conducted and the prosecution which has to be carried on,” observed Justice Sandhawalia in his detailed order passed on January 18.
 
 The former DGP had approached the HC after his application for the information under RTI Act was turned down by the CBI as well as the central information commission.
 
 Malik wanted statements of all the witnesses recorded while conducting the preliminary inquiry in 2005 and also the recommendations made by the then director, CBI, for including his name in the FIR recorded under Section 13 of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 and for recommending his prosecution in relation to irregularities in selection of constables in government railway police.
 
 CBI, on the other hand, had argued that the challan had been presented and the case was pending adjudication before the trial court. The information sought was exempted under section 8(1)(g) & (h) of the RTI Act. The disclosure of the statements would identify the source of information and therefore, endanger the life and physical safety of the witnesses, CBI had argued.
 
 BOX: 
 
 In this case, Malik had alleged that an FIR against him was registered on June 19, 2006 by the orders of CBI director  , who was the batchmate of the then Haryana DGP Nirmal Singh, who had a service rivalry with him and thus, he had been falsely implicated in the case.
 
