Diss tracks have been around since the 80s in the hip-hop scene in the West. Rap feuds like the one between Tupac and Biggie or Nas and Jay-Z are legendary. And it continues; only recently Jay-Z aimed a lyrical jibe at his ex-best pal Kanye West in his latest album '4:44'. For those new to the term, a diss track is when one singer takes a dig at a rival through their music. It’s a situation unique in the hip-hop scene. Given the fact that hip-hop has now become popular in mainstream Bollywood movies, it was only a matter of time that rappers started releasing diss tracks. Since the past three years, a number of desi rappers started releasing such tracks and resolving or escalating disputes and sleighs, both imagined and unimagined with other rappers. And just like in the West, diss tracks are fun for fans if made well and result into increased fame for artistes. Here’s looking at the best diss tracks we have around.

 
 Formerly a member of the urban music group Mafia Mundeer, Raftaar is angry like hell. His bone of contention is Yo Yo Honey Singh; his ‘brother’ from the same group, which fell apart in a spectacular fashion after   and Raftaar quit the group claiming that Singh fleeced them. The track Raftaar first released after quitting Mafia Mundeer was 'Fukra Flow', where he dissed Honey Singh. He called him out quite clearly with his ‘Yo Yo’ title and said he is an auto tune ‘bot’. While now it’s all quiet on that front, you never know when the fragile peace can be broken.
 
 
 A pioneer of desi hip-hop, Bohemia is known for his firepower delivery and his puritan approach to hip-hop. Considering the fact that he has been an underground artist for so long, Bohemia gets irked with mainstream desi hip-hop acts like Badshah,   and even Raftaar. So, besides taking casual digs at Indian rappers, Bohemia has, in several online videos, decimated online.
 
 
 In an interview that Badshah gave this year, he revealed how Honey Singh did not give him credit for the time him and Raftaar wrote for the rapper and took him for a ride. The songs in question included the hits 'Brown Rang' and 'Dope Shope'. So, in a track titled 'Bandook', which fans say is a total diss track aimed at Honey, Badshah says, “
 rich (boy),” And then he adds, “
 bitch (boy).”
 
 
  
  
 
 Arguably the most famous Indian rapper, Yo Yo Honey Singh answered all his critics in this track. Titled 'Issey Kehte Hain Hip Hop'. This is the song where he took on all his detractors who said Singh went too mainstream and that his music was not ‘real’ anymore. He goes, “
 music industry
 revolution 
 .”
 
 
