Singapore-based   has acquired close to 15% stake in   for $25 million (Rs 165-170 cr), making it one of the biggest private equity (PE) deals in the foods space in the east. Industry insiders feel that this is among the top 15-20 deals in the food sector in India following TPG-Dodla Dairy or KKR-Kwality deals. The deal translates into an enterprise valuation of Rs 1,200 crore for   Agro. The portfolio of   in India includes Jain Irrigation, Jain Farm Fresh, Efrac, SAFL, Arcadia and  , among others.
 
  A source close to the development said Keventer Agro, the holding company for the food business of Keventer Group of Jalans, would utilise the money for the expansion of its dairy business, which is now under Metro Dairy. The dairy arm currently is a 100% subsidiary of Keventer Agro. Earlier, the West Bengal government used to hold a minority stake in Metro Dairy, which the state sold to Keventer last month. Besides dairy, Keventer has a presence in processed foods, fresh fruits and vegetables.
  
  When contacted, Keventer Agro MD Mayank Jalan confirmed the development but refused to divulge details of the deal. However, the company has set a target to become the number one player in the fragmented dairy market in the east, where Amul is a leader with over 10% pie. The size of the organised dairy market in the east is Rs 30,000 crore and apart from Amul, there is no other national player which holds significant market share in the region.
  
  Metro Dairy is the second largest player in Bengal. The other players in east include Mother Dairy (Calcutta), Himul, Thakers Dairy along with a few regional players. Mother Dairy (Delhi) has also entered east in some pockets in the recent years.
  
  “East is a milk-deficit market. So there is a huge potential to develop dairy business here,” an industry expert said. The dairy business of Keventer is at Rs 340 crore now. It is learnt that Keventer has set a target to make dairy a Rs 1,000 crore-plus business in the three-five years. The group is hoping to clock over Rs 2,000 crore topline from its foods business,which now has a revenue of Rs 800 crore.
  
  According to a source, Keventer will invest over Rs 400 crore in the next two years to strengthen its back-end and front-end infrastructure in dairy. “This year itself, the firm will invest Rs 100 crore,” it added. Keventer would nearly double its manufacturing capacity from 2.5 lakh litre to 4 lakh litre in the next few years.
