PUNE: Battery-operated vehicles and bicycles will be the only automobiles plying on the   (SPPU) campus in the future. 

 The university already has two battery-operated vehicles, and within 45 days, two more will be procured. 
 
 Bicycles, on the other hand, will be procured using funds available under Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiatives, said SPPU vice-chancellor WN Gade.
 
 Gade was speaking at a press conference organised to declare the annual Jeevan Gaurav Awards, which the university gives to people who have excelled in their respective fields on the it’s foundation day.
 
 “One of the vehicles runs on solar energy and was built by our own students. The other is battery operated. I envision a vehicle-pollution free campus. Hence, in near future, I want only bicycles and battery-operated vehicles to be used by students, staff and any visitor coming inside the campus,” said Gade.
 
 The vice-chancellor added that there are six pickup points in the varsity for the vehicles and a huge parking lot will be created once the entire infrastructure is made available for bicycles and battery-operated vehicles. 
 
 “People can come up to the main gate in their own vehicle after which only vehicles provided by the university could be used. Already, there are campuses that are following a similar pattern. IIT Bombay also doesn’t allow vehicles inside the campus,” he said.
 
 Gade expects to face opposition in the beginning but is confident that people will get used to the idea as it is healthier and pollution free.
 
 Currently, both the vehicles are six seaters but the varsity is hoping to procure 14-seater automobiles. “Both vehicles will together cost around Rs 17 lakh. We are hoping to get funds under CSR to buy enough bicycles. The bicycles will be used and parked at various places within the campus for others to use,” said Gade.
 
 The varsity will celebrate its 68th Foundation Day on Friday at the campus. 
 
 Arun Firodia, chairman of   will be the chief guest for the function. 
 
 This year, the   Gaurav Awards will be given to Sucheta Bhide Chapekar, Mohanrao Deshmukh, Baba Adhav, Gajanan Ekbote, PD Patil, Vishwanath Karad, Raja Dhale and Vidya Bal.
 
