CHENNAI: Tourists from tier-II cities like Madurai, Trichy , Thiruvananthapuram, Kochi have become Singapore-savvy. They went on cruise tours and stayed in upmarket hotels in the city-state in 2016.

 Encouraged by the trend,   (STB) is gearing up to promote the destination in tier-II cities in India in addition to stepping up marketing in Mumbai, Chennai, Delhi and Bengaluru, the four cities that generate majority of  .
 
 STB regional director for South Asia, Middle East and Africa, G B Sridhar, said, “There was a 29% increase in cruise passengers from India making the country the number one market for cruise travellers for Singapore. Around 1 lakh travellers from India took cruises in 2016.“
 
 “Indian travellers prefer to stay in good hotels, try out food and beverages. This is one of the reasons why 39% of expenditure goes for accommodation,“ he said.“We have completed a four-city road show and will focus on Trichy, Kochi, Amristar, Pune, Ahmedabad, Hyderabad and Kolkata this year. Many of the tier-II cities have good air connectivity to Singapore. There are 230 weekly flights from 15 cities in India,“ Sridhar said.
 
 Singapore also serves a lot of tourists during long weekends.Tourists from 12 tier-II cities in India increased by 7% in 2016 compared to the previous year. Of the one million people who visited Singapore from India, 1,83,000 were from tier-II cities. Singapore received travellers from tier-II cities in Indonesia and China as well. The trend was similar in other countries that provided the most visitors to Singapore.
 
 Visitors from India comprise those who are early in their careers, those interested in shopping and dining and family travellers interested in sightseeing. Sridhar said the tourism board will make the most of the growth in Asia pacific tourism, increase in air connectivity and opportunity to promote MICE (meetings, incentives, conferences and exhibition) travel in the coming year.
 
 He said Indian films encourage travellers to visit destinations in Singapore. Although STB has stopped offering financial grants to producers to encourage shoots, it would be facilitating and liaising with different agencies in tourist spots.
 
 “Dear Zindagi had a few scenes shot in Singapore which have encouraged travellers to visit the locations. Badrinath Ki Dulhaniya is another Hindi movie which has been shot in Singapore. We are talking to Kollywood producers about shooting their films at locations in Singapore,“ he said.
 
