VALPOI/PORIEM: In the twin constituencies of Poriem and Valpoi, which registered the highest voter turnout 90.29% and 89% respectively in the March 2012 assembly polls, the lack of enthusiasm is surprising. Visitors may not see any election paraphernalia or candidates campaigning with their supporters. But, come February 4, the electorate in the two bastions held by the father-son duo, Pratapsingh and Vishwajit Rane, will vote, albeit ritualistically.

 The economic and social backwardness of these two constituencies in the   taluka can’t be brushed aside even though they are endowed with Nature’s bounty. Although it is barely 50km away from the capital city, bus connectivity in most of Sattari’s villages is poor and unemployment, rampant.
 
 Like most of the electorate there, first-time voter, Rupesh Gawas, expects very little from the winning candidate. All he wants are buses plying regularly to his village, Morlem. For now, the Class XII student’s journey home from higher secondary school is arduous. He and his classmates are forced to travel by a bus that takes a detour before it reaches their village, leaving the youngsters with no option but to walk the rest of the distance. 
 
 In the village of Sonal in Valpoi, Zipro Naik and Ramesh Gaonkar take refuge from the scorching afternoon sun under a tree at the junction, hoping to hitch a ride to Sanvordem, Sattari. It’s 3pm and the last bus to their village will arrive 2.5 hours later. “We can’t walk seven-eight kilometres in this heat. Hopefully, a vehicle will pass this way,” a woeful Zipro says. 
 
 A brief chat with the duo reveals how volatile their economic standing is. “We have no land to cultivate on, so we work as daily wage labourers. This, too, is not regular,” Zipro adds.
 
 Though a part of Sattari’s population owns cashew plantations and practises horticulture, the majority does not possess tracts of land large enough to take up horticultural activities on a commercial scale. “We cultivate what we can. Most times, whatever is produced is just enough for the family’s consumption,” says Rukmini Kerkar, a widow and mother of four. Thankfully, two of her daughters work in a factory and supplement the family’s income, else Rukmini’s wages would have been far from sufficient to make ends meet.
 
  and opposition leader Pratapsingh Rane, during his long tenure as chief minister, and Valpoi MLA Vishwajit Rane, after he became health minister in 2007 under the Congress-led government, have been instrumental in getting many of their constituents government jobs. Yet, scores of youth in Sattari are yet to be gainfully employed. 
 
 Sattari has no major industries, except the   (ACGL), which effectively means that people have to look beyond their villages for employment.
 
 It also indicates that the Ranes need to work much harder if they are to eliminate the ills of backwardness and unemployment and keep their bastions intact.
 
 
