The dramatics societies of different DU colleges that participated in the recently-concluded 'Mahavidyalaya Natya Samaroh' were informally advised by one of the organisers of the fest to steer clear of themes around “love, romance, abusing, sex, politics or religion” for their plays. Contrary to the advice, however, students not only chose topics such as prostitution, normalising sexuality, the effeminate, etc, but also presented powerful scenes from a brothel, a man’s desire for another man or a woman’s attraction towards another woman during their street and stage shows. On the fourth day of the festival, which was organized by the  , the highlight was that the ‘other’, be in terms of gender,   or anything that is not the norm, also exists. 

  
  ' ' by the students of Shivaji College’s 'Vayam', which highlighted the condition of prostitutes. This formation is inspired by the caves of Ellora and the ‘matkas’ represent a medium to satiate sexual desires (BCCL)
 
  
 
 ' ', the dramatics society of Sri Venkateswara College, presented its street play titled A. As the play started, a student from the society said, “Main toh bachchi hoon, main aap ka naatak nahi dekh paungi kya?” This was followed by a pause from the society members.
 
  “Agar hum apni desire ko follow karte hain, toh hum kya aadarsh nahi hain? Kya yeh humari sanskriti ke khilaaf hai?” asked an actor from the play. Another actor, Chetan Saini, added, “My country grants me freedom of speech, but according to the law, I’m a criminal if I tell people about my sexual preferences. I’m a criminal because Section 377 criminalises sexual activities ‘against the order of nature’.”
  “Nobody should judge you on the basis of your sexuality, it’s a matter of personal choice. Many religious texts tell us that sex should not be a means to derive pleasure, so that automatically excludes the LGBTQ community,” said Upragya Kashyap, president of the society.
 
  
  ' ', Hindu College’s dramatics society, presented a play called 'There Stands Another', which covered gender identity and child sexual abuse (BCCL) 
 
  
 
 The dramatics society of  , 'Vayam', presented 'Kaalkothri', a play to highlight the condition of prostitutes in India. The play depicted how women are forced to take up prostitution. The play was set entirely in a brothel and depicted how people don’t even let these prostitutes enter their homes. “Log unhe apne ghar bhi nahi aane dete, par jab Durga Puja par Durga Maa ki murti banaani hoti hai, toh mitti bhi inke ghar se hi lekar jate hain,” said Utkarsh Singh, president of the society. He added, “People never talk about prostitutes. We never get to hear their stories. Na hum baat karte hain, aur na hi unke liye kuch kaam hota hai government ke side se. Kab tak hum yeh sab ignore karte rahenge? Since our target audience is the youth, how can we not show all this?”
 
  
  'Anubhuti', the dramatics society at Venky, did a nukkad natak on gender and sexuality (BCCL)
 
  
 
 'Ibtida', the dramatics society of Hindu College, showcased its annual production, 'There Stands Another, which depicted how Ishan, the protagonist of the play, finds someone within himself who completes him. He creates Isha, a woman, who lives within him. For all that Ishan wishes to do but can’t even imagine doing himself normally, he channels Isha.
 
  
  'Kaalkothri' by Shivaji College’s 'Vayam' also showcased issues faced by transgenders
 
 
 
 
