AURANGABAD: Of the 100 people booked by the   on charges of attempt to murder,   and rioting, the local court on Tuesday granted   to 24 accused.

 Earlier, the court had granted interim bail to six accused, who were arrested immediately after registration of the offence on April 20. 
 
 One of these six accused was granted bail on the grounds for commencing marriage.
 
 Prakash Limbaji Avcharmal, a farmer residing in the limits of Chikalthana police station, lodged a complaint alleging that Amol Navpute along with members of his family stopped him and his brother, before trying to kill him by assaulting him using wooden stick. The incident left Prakash and his brother seriously injured.
 
 Based on his complaint, the Chikalthana police registered a case of attempt to murder, voluntarily causing hurt, criminal intimidation, rioting, unlawful assembly against 30 identified and over 70 unidentified suspects.
 
 The police also slapped them with stringent sections of Prevention of Atrocities Act. The registration of offence was followed by arresting of the six accused belonging to Navpute family. The accused were first remanded in police custody and later in judicial custody.
 
 Contesting on behalf of the suspects, lawyer   pointed out before the court that there was a delay of 10 hours in registration of the case. 
 
 He went on to contest that the complainant and the suspects belong to rival groups and the possibility of lodging a false complaint to settle personal scores cannot be ruled out.
 
 The lawyer also stated that the track record of the complainant should be taken in to consideration by the court, as he has a record of allegedly lodging false complainants against the villagers.
 
 Bhosale added that at the time of alleged incident, most of the villagers who have been named as accused, were not present at the spot. After hearing both the sides, special addition and sessions judge PS Shinde granted conditional anticipatory bail to 24 accused named in the case. 
 
