AHMEDABAD: There was a commotion in the Gujarat assembly again, this time during a discussion on the atrocities on dalits at Santalpur village in Patan, where they faced a “social boycott” for not disposing of a cow carcass.   MLAs took to their feet when social justice and empowerment minister   said that the Congress should stop invoking  .

 During the discussion Parmar said: “The Santalpur incident took place in October last year and the issue was settled. However, just one day after the assembly convened for the budget session, the victims sat on a dharna. The issue has been politicized to defame the government.”
 
  Parmar said that soon after the incident, the victims wrote to the superintendent of police. When officials visited them asked them to lodge a complaint, the victims said they would rather work out a compromise.
 
 Congress MLAs Ramesh Chavada, Shailesh Parmar, Manilal Vaghela and chief whip Balwantsinh Rajput had raised the issue. During the discussion, Chavada said dalits were forced to take up skinning as they did not have any alternative business.
 
 Speaker Ramalal Vora said Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar had asked dalits not to adopt skinning as their business, but we are not following his preaching and only remember him when we are in distress. He said that we dalits should stop skinning.
 
 Atmaram Parmar said the incident at Santalpur was the gift of the Congress to the state. He further alleged that those involved in the incident were taluka panchayat members of the Congress and the relatives of a Congress MLA. This led to the Congress shouting slogans calling the government “anti-dalit”.
 
 Congress MLA Shailesh Parmar alleged that after the Una incident, where dalits were brutalized, dalits in the state refused to return to skinning and this led to such incidents across the state. He said that even through the victims lodged a complaint last October, the government made an arrest only one day before the issue was to be discussed in the state assembly.
 
