PUNE: The   (AAI) has approved the   (OLS) report for the proposed new   in Purandar taluka. 

 Chief minister  , in reply to a text message sent by TOI, confirmed the development saying: "The airport project is on track. Just now the OLS survey has been approved by the AAI." 
 
 The district administration, in coordination with AAI and the   (MADC), had carried out the survey in October last, amid protests by the local landowners. The survey identified natural or man-made obstacles to the airport site. It also discusses the ways in which the issues can be resolved so that the airport, once constructed, doesn't run into technical issues. 
 
 "We are one step closer. Work on the techno-feasibility survey, or the detailed project report, is set to start soon and will take six months to complete. So, the project is on track," an MADC official said. 
 
 Recently, in reply to a query in the Parliament, Jayant Sinha, the minister of state for civil aviation, said the centre had given an 'in principle' nod to set up 18 greenfield airports in the country. While the proposed airports in Navi Mumbai, MOPA (Goa), Shirdi and Sindhudurg found a mention in the minister's speech, the Pune airport didn't. 
 
 The CM, in his text message, said, "All the airports mentioned had started 8-10 years ago. The concept for the Navi Mumbai airport was in place 15 years ago; we got it to the letter of intent stage in just two years. The Pune airport is not there yet, and one needs patience."
 
 According to the civil aviation ministry, the Navi Mumbai airport is estimated to cost Rs16,704 crore. The MOPA in Goa will be constructed at a cost of Rs3,100 crore; Shirdi airport will be built at an estimated cost of Rs320.54 crore and the one at Sindhudurg will cost Rs520 crore approximately. The Purandar airport is projected to cost Rs14,000-16, 000 crore.
 
 In the state budget announced earlier this month, no mention was made of the airport project. However, Fadnavis had clarified to TOI that the funds - once the land acquisition process and compensation package are finalized - will be allocated in the supplementary budget in June-July. 
 
