KOCHI: The   has written to the   (RTO) seeking steps to remove the seized vehicles lying in the collectorate compound. The vehicles, most of them in rusty state of disrepair, were seized by the enforcement squad of the   (MVD) for violation of rules.

 The vehicles, numbering around 30, have been lying in the compound for more than nine years and taking up space in the collectorate ground.
 
 The MVD has started taking steps to clear the seized vehicles to make space for a parking lot following the letter. The department is planning to auction the seized vehicles after intimating their owners. “As there is space crunch, police too are not taking these vehicles forcing us to dump it in the compound. Many vehicles have become rusty and cannot be repaired. We will auction it as scrap. We have to check whether all the vehicles we seized are in the compound or have been stolen,“ said Reji P Varghese, RTO, Ernakulam.
 
 The removal of seized vehicles from the compound will take some time as the MVD need to trace the owners and intimate them. “All seized vehicles won't be of   and it might be from outside the district. We will put the vehicles on auction after intimating owners who can take them back by paying the fine amount. Most of these vehicles were seized for not paying vehicle tax under Kerala Motor Vehicles Taxation Act. If owners do not come forward and pay fine, the case will remain even after the vehicles are auctioned off,“ he said.
 
 Lack of space is dissuading officials from seizing vehicles involved in various offences. “We just impose fine on vehicles which are found to violate rules instead of seizing them. Otherwise, we ask owners to keep the vehicles at their responsibility till they clear the fine,“ said an MVD official.
 
 When a bomb exploded in a car parked in Malappuram collectorate compound last year, police had directed the officials to remove the seized vehicles in Kakkanad collectorate compound. Following the direction, officials removed the vehicles lying close to the collectorate building and dumped them in the backyard. Later, MVD submitted a list of vehicles lying in the compound to the collector.
 
 Many vehicles covered by weeds and creepers have also become breeding ground for mosquitoes. “Mosquitoes will breed in tyres too,' said N K Kuttappan, DMO, Ernakulam.
 
