MEERUT: A day after   leader Mohd Yakub Qureshi’s daughter allegedly beat her daughter's classmate with a whip after entering a classroom of Meerut Public Girls' School (MPGS), the school authorities rusticated all three girls from  's family studying in the school on Tuesday. The decision was taken amidst pressure from parents, Hindu outfits and Vyapaar Sangh members, who created chaos in the school on Tuesday morning over the delay in action from their side.
 
  On Monday, Yakub Qureshi’s daughter Nazma accompanied by her husband, two other women and eight youths, had allegedly barged into Class VIII C of MPGS, carrying a whip and “beat” up the classmates of Qureshi’s granddaughter Ramsha, because they had informed the teacher that Ramsha had bunked school for two days and was out "with her boyfriend".
  
  Madhu Sirohi, principal, MPGS (West End Road), said, “We have rusticated three students from Yakub Qureshi’s family — Alisha Qureshi (of class IX),   (of class VIII) and Ilma Qureshi (of class VIII). The school does not wish to teach anti-social elements like them. In fact, we have found out from the CCTV footage that the boys who accompanied Ramsha’s mother were students from Meerut Public School (Main Wing). We are in the process of identifying them. Once that is done, even they will be rusticated.”
  
  While Alisha and Ramsha are Qureshi’s daughter and granddaughter respectively, Ilma is related to his family too. On Tuesday, heavy police protection remained inside the school premises as classes continued and the students were not allowed to come out of their classes during recess. It should be noted that the students who were allegedly beaten up include Alisha, Ilma (coincidentally, namesakes of the girls rusticated), Paranu and Sheher.
  
  During the incident on Monday, the teacher in class who intervened was also misbehaved with, and school property vandalized. An FIR was filed by Alisha’s (victim) father Yusuf wherein Ramsha’s mother and several others were booked under sections 147 (rioting), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC. On Tuesday, the school management also filed a police complaint.
  
  “We have given the CCTV camera footage backup to the police to help them in identification. Proper investigation will be done against those involved in the incident and the girls will not be taught here anymore,” said Tara Chand Shastri, chairman, Meerut Public Schools group.
  
  SP (city)   said, “A second FIR has been filed against 10-odd people for house trespass, rioting, causing hurt, criminal intimidation and other sections of the IPC. Since the accusations of beating the children are mainly against the woman, there are chances that changes will be made to the FIR.”
