MUMBAI: From being part of a team building offshore oil rigs at Mazagon Dock, to selling Santoor soap in smaller towns of Maharashtra, to the global chief executive of a global spirits giant —  , 54, who was named as the next   chief on Monday night, has had an eventful journey, like the exiled, iconic Cuban spirits brand itself.

 The world’s largest family-run spirits company Bacardi said Madhavan will succeed   as CEO from April, 2018. This would make him the second Indian to steer a global liquor powerhouse after Diageo appointed   as the helmsman in 2013. In his 20-year stint with Bacardi, Madhavan has steered the eponymous rum giant across emerging markets like Philippines, Thailand, India, Africa and the Middle East.
 
 “I would have never imagined about leading such a historic company, when I joined two decades ago. I never saw this as a job but as my own company and believed in being a part of the family. My chairman says my role is to leave this company better and stronger for the next generation,” Madhavan told TOI on phone from Bermuda. He is currently based in Dubai, but will be moving to Geneva next month, and later to Miami before taking charge at the headquarters in Bermuda.
 
 Bacardi, owned by the   family, is counting on Madhavan’s consumer and trade insights in the emerging markets to drive the next phase of growth. The rum maker has built a wider portfolio of premium brands like  ,   and   through acquisitions, which now needs acceleration in the fast growing economies. Founded in 1862, Bacardi left Cuba almost a century later when the late Fidel Castro confiscated assets following the communist revolution. The company owns a portfolio of 200 brands produced from 29 manufacturing locations globally.
 
 Madhavan came into the spirits industry when he joined International Distillers & Vintners (IDV), a forerunner to Diageo, steering   in India. With Smirnoff and later Bacardi, he played a big role in building the white spirits category during the 1990s in a market dominated by local whiskies. He was part of the breakout era in liquor advertising and marketing, which was till then dominated by chauvinistic campaigns showcasing masculinity.
 
 Madhavan’s family hails from Kannur in Kerala, but he grew up in Mumbai. He started his career with Mazagon Dock followed by Tata Electric. He went to SP Jain Institute of Management, before switching career to consumer goods sector, which also included a stint with FCB Ulka. He left Diageo to join Bacardi in 2007.
 
 “Mahesh is engaging and intense in operational matters as well as in building relationships, having a good blend of EQ and practical purpose. His focus on continuous excellence is paying off,” said former Nike and Madura Fashion & Lifestyle CEO Hemchandra Javeri, with whom Madhavan worked as an area manager at Wipro Consumer Care. Industry veteran and Allied Blenders & Distillers vice-chairman Deepak Roy added, “Mahesh and I worked together in Diageo during his formative years. He launched Smirnoff in what was then a non-existent vodka market. The premium drinks market is about riding the consumer trends, which he knows how to tackle after working in some of the most complex Asian markets.”
 
 Just as growth of Indian white spirits segment disappointed, Bacardi has had a rather indifferent innings in the country, which include a failed joint venture with Radico Khaitan and multiple acquisition talks that weren’t clinched. Bacardi’s name continues to show up as a potential acquirer — business television networks speculated on one such deal 10 days ago — of Indian distillers in a rapidly consolidating industry. The company’s moves under Madhavan, especially how aggressively he pushes its global whiskies in markets such as India, will be closely watched.
 
