LUCKNOW: A class XI student shot herself with a rifle belonging to his maternal uncle at his house on   area on Monday night. This was the fourth such incident in the city in the past three months.

 According to police, the student identified as Kushagra Verma (17) lived with his family in a house popularly known as Verma Kothi (near Markaz Masjid) in the locality and was pursuing his studies from   at Charbagh.
 
 Around 4pm, Amit Verma and his wife Alka Verma had gone to the market in Charbagh. At 8 pm, they reached home and found their son’s room locked from inside and when after repeated calls he did not open the door, they broke it and were shocked to see Kushagra lying dead in the bed, blood splattered all over and a single barrel rifle lying beside the body.
 
 His brain had come out with the bullet shot and blood was splashed everywhere in the room. The rifle belonged to Kushagra’s maternal uncle Alok Sinha of Bazaarkhala, who had visited the house for some work on Sunday.
 
 As per rules, with the announcement of elections, all license holders have to deposit their firearms with the police. In this case, Police said Alok was going to deposit the rifle on Monday but postponed the plan as he got busy with other things. Alok is a contractor in Jal Sansthan. 
 
 On January 11, Shivyansh Sahu, a class X student had shot himself with his father’s firearm. In that case too, the father had delayed depositing the firearm and later regretted his decision.
 
 Kaiserbagh police circle officer Awadesh Pandey said the rifle had been seized and investigation was underway. “Kushagra must have put the barrel of the gun on his temple to shot himself. Impact of the rifle is stronger than of a revolver so the bullet blew his head,” said Pandey.
 
 Prima facie it seems Kushagra was depressed and was not attending school, Pandey told ToI. 
 
 
 
 
 Mother of the deceased, Alka and father Amit Verma were shocked beyond words. “He had not been going to school for the past few days and when I asked him why, he said he was fine, said the father, adding, “When I asked again, he said, it was because of a skin problem.” 
 
 His paternal uncle   told TOI that Kushagra topped exams in Class X and was an introverted, busy mostly with studies. “I can’t imagine why he took such a step,” he said. 
 
 Kushagra’s maternal uncle Alok Sinha told TOI that it was on his insistence that the boy was given a mobile phone. “I had deliberately asked his parents to give him a phone as he hardly interacted with people. I told his parents to give him a phone and used to talk to him frequently,” he said. 
 
