Talking points from the first day of the fourth Test between India and Australia at the HPCA Stadium in Dharamsala on Saturday:

 
 
 
 The series is up for grabs. Australia need only a draw to retain the Border-Gavaskar Trophy. But the Test couldn't have started on a more worse note for India. Captain   was ruled out because of that infamous shoulder injury in Ranchi.   became India's 33rd Test captain but the hosts pulled off a surprise by naming   as his replacement. Yes, with all to play for in this Test, a bowler replaced a batsman even though Shreyas Iyer was called up as a cover for Kohli. To be fair to Yadav, he was excellent in the domestic season picking 52 wickets and he is the first Chinaman bowler to play for India. But the Indian think-tank took a big risk to hand Kuldeep a debut in this all-important Test. As for Rahane, he joined the league of legends from Mumbai like Polly Umrigar, Nari Contractor, GS Ramchand, Ajit Wadekar, Sunil Gavaskar,  ,   and Sachin Tendulkar to captain India in Test cricket. But this is the first time that Rahane is captaining a side in first-class cricket. Not surprisingly, Kohli had to come on the field again and again to pep up his teammates.
 
 
 
 
 Bhuvneshwar Kumar, who replaced Ishant Sharma in the team, bowled the first over of the match and could have got a miserably out of form David Warner on the very first ball. Bhuvneshwar bowled a superb outswinger and Warner reached out for it only to get a thick edge. The ball went flying to the left of third slip where Karun Nair dived but could only get his thumb on the ball that raced to the third man fence. Failing to learn from the Indian players' past mistakes, Nair was up in his stance too early. And soon, Warner was getting his feet to move and getting to the pitch of the ball to go through his shots. Warner went on to hit a six and eight fours in his score of 56 runs and added 134 runs with his captain Steve Smith for the second wicket to lay a good foundation for a good Aussie total before becoming Kuldeep's first victim.
 
 
 
 Kuldeep proved his selection as a masterstroke. He began his magic after lunch, dismissing David Warner, Peter Handscomb and Glenn Maxwell in quick succession. All the three were guilty of not reading Kuldeep from his hand, but tried to play him off the pitch and perished in the process. Warner went for a cut shot to a ball that was too close to his body only to find that the delivery bounced just a bit more to take a thickish edge to Rahane at first slip. Handscomb shaped for a cover drive to a fullish delivery that turned in to go through the gap and crash into the stumps. Maxwell was bamboozled by a googly and tried to play for the turn only to find the bails dislodged. Pat Cummins too was dismissed off a wrong'un. No wonder the great Sachin Tendulkar had a word of praise for the 22-year-old from Kanpur.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Smith became the first Australian skipper to score three centuries in a series in India and only the second visiting captain to hit three hundreds in a series in India after England's Alastair Cook. Smith reached his 20th century off 150 balls which is also his seventh century against India and third of this series. Smith also became the first Australian skipper to be dismissed on nelson (111) -- a gutsy effort during which he hit 14 boundaries off 173 balls. Smith's innings meant he remained on top of the batting chart in the series with a whopping 482 runs from seven innings.
 
 
 
 
 Virat Kohli missed a Test after playing 54 matches in the longest format at a stretch, starting with a Test against West Indies in Mumbai back in November 2011. Kohli suffered a shoulder injury while fielding in the third Test in Ranchi. He came into the series having registered a double century in each of the preceding four series but has since struggled with the bat, managing just 46 runs in five innings. But being injured did not stop Kohli from being there for his boys on the field. During the drinks break, he could be seen trotting out onto the field laden with drinks for his teammates, which earned him a resounding applause from the crowd. The 28-year-old again came into the field with drinks and had a few words with Kuldeep, who had just dismissed Warner. 
 
 
