NOIDA: Though their money is stuck, most ‘publishers’ who had invested lakhs of rupees in ‘publishing plans’ of   have denied that they were asked to get shopkeepers for the website,  , on payment of a monthly rental of Rs 2,000.

 While police have claimed that they have documents to show that the publishers were also asked to get advertisers, most   TOI spoke to said that while they were aware that the company was offering free advertisement for companies during the trial period initially, the company did not send any messages on website/SMSs or mobile regarding getting merchants/shopkeepers from whom revenue could be made.
 
 On Saturday, while highlighting the modus operandi of the company,   police had said that the aim of the company was to urge publishers (investors) to rope in five shopkeepers/businessmen to place their ads on the website.
 
 “We had seen advertisements in newspapers saying that the company will run the new company, addsbook.com, on the basis of franchise model. However, there was no message or written intimation to the publishers about getting shopkeepers/merchants who could act as advertisers for the company on addsbook.com,” Jitesh Kothari who had invested nearly 17 lakh from Mumbai, told TOI.
 
 Udham Singh, another investor from Rewari, said: “This bit of information has started doing rounds only now and I had not heard anything like this earlier,” Singh said.
 
 SHO, Sector 20 police station, Anil Pratap Singh, however, told TOI that the police have documents to prove that the company offered money to publishers in lieu of getting shopkeepers.
 
 Some ‘publishers’ from Hisar have decided to lodge complaints in the local police station, he said.
 
 However, most of the ‘publishers’ have no hopes of getting their money back from the company.
 
 “You see what happened in other scams like Speak Asia. Even today, the matter is stuck in court and no one has got the money. In fact, we will have to spend more money on hiring a lawyer and other legal processes,” said Udham Singh, who said that he had bought the publishing plan worth Rs 11,500.
 
 Saurabh Sharma, another publisher from Indore, who had invested nearly Rs 25,000 in different publishing plans said that he too did not receive any message from the company on the website or any other intimation for getting advertisers in lieu of money.
 
 Most of the investors which include engineers, chartered accountants, employees of private companies, etc, are well educated and admitted that they wanted to make “easy and quick money” as a “side income” through the returns promised and were unaware that the company did not have a serious income source.
 
 Webwork combined multi-level marketing and social trade and operated on two models: taking money from people who publish advertisements on social media and revenue from registered shopkeepers, sellers, etc. The ‘publisher’ is anyone who buys links from the company to advertise them on his/her social media accounts. The 'publishers' would buy links from the company for advertising the same on social media and will be paid Rs 6 per click, i.e, for publishing each link on their Facebook accounts.
 
 
