BHOPAL: The Madhya Pradesh government’s ban on plastic and   across the state from May 1 has left a lot of people worried for their jobs.

 Around 30 units of plastic bags in operating within MP will be affected by the government’s decision. These factories contribute around Rs 100 crore every year to the state’s economy.
 
 “This move will only lead to a creation of a black market for plastic, unemployment and corruption in MP", Praveen Patni president of the Madhya Pradesh plastic traders and manufactures association said.
 
 There are many in the plastic industry that are sceptical about the government’s plan to end the use of plastic bags. “It is impossible to ban the use of plastic carry bags are there is no other alternative for it. Around 90 % of the carry bags are supplied from Halol in Gujarat. If not produced in the state, people can buy it from Gujarat,” added Patni. Even in Chattisgarh and Rajasthan where the ban was imposed earlier, plastic bags continued to be supplied from Halol, he said.
 
 In addition, the state government has not yet mentioned the thickness of the carry bags which will be banned in the state. “This is creating confusion among the minds of manufacturing units in the state. The talk on the ban has been going on since 2011 but the government is still not clear”, said BK Kabra, owner of a manufacture unit in Bhopal.
 
 “They initially said that the ban will be on the carry bags with thickness up to 20 micron, then it was raised to 40 microns. Later, it was decided that bags with a thickness of 50 micron will also be banned. Over the years, there has been no clear statement on the details of the ban,” he said.
 
 On May 21, 2015, chief minister   had announced a ban on polythene and plastic carry bags to be implemented from January 1, 2016. On Republic Day this year, Chouhan again pitched for a complete ban on plastic bags in the state from May 1.
 
 Patni, said, “Each of the 30 units in the state do a business of about Rs 1 lakh every day. It’s going to be huge loss to the manufacturers and the government will lose revenue. All the units will most likely shut down, if they are upgraded to manufacture other plastic material.”
 
 “People like me will become jobless, the government should reconsider the ban and instead focus on discouraging the usage of plastic bans or creating awareness about recycling,” said Vikas Malpani, a retailer.
 
 Saying that a ban is not the solution, Kabra, added, “Plastic is used in so many things of every day use. Bread is packed in plastic, what is the alternative for that?”
 
 Though the ban comes with new set of problems to deal with, it has been hailed by environmentalists and residents of the state alike.
 
 Deepa Bhattacharya, a house wife said “I welcome the ban on plastic bags, they lead to pollution, but the government must thing of an economical alternative for the same.”
 
