BENGALURU:   in the city continued to be disrupted for the eighth consecutive day on Thursday as drivers affiliated to taxi-hailing aggregators kept off roads and affirmed they will protest till their demands are met.

 Very few cabs were available on Thursday.
 
 Around 1,500 protesters gathered at   on Thursday and demanded that the government intervene and talk to officials of   to solve the issue. The protest began on Wednesday with over 5,000 drivers joining in.
 
 “This reminds us of the British era when powerful men ruined the lives of those who worked for a living,“ said Manikanta Swamy, a driver.
 
 “It's unfortunate that cab drivers who ferry passengers across the city are forced to plead for justice. If Bengaluru has earned a global reputation, we have made a major contribution towards it,“ the drivers said.
 
 When asked about the losses they incur during the ongoing protest, the drivers admitted they were facing a financial crisis. “We all have loans against our vehicles and we must earn at least Rs 5,000 every day to meet our family expenses and pay the monthly instalment. For the past one week we haven't earned anyi thing and have been borrowing money at steep interest rates,“ Basavaraju D, who owns three Tata Indica vehicles, told TOI.
 
 
 
 
 There were heated arguments when a group of drivers objected to huge posters of JD(S) chief H D Deve Gowda and his son Kumaraswamy at the park.
 
 “Instead of helping us ret solve the issue, these politicians are stoking the protest. JD(S) state chief and former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy had vowed that he will t pay us money for our rations for a month. Where is he now?
 
 Where is the money?“ said some drivers. “Politicians promising to help us must provide us legal aid. We want some good lawyers to fight our case,“ Umashankar, a driver, said. Some union leaders, however, intervened and pacified the agitated drivers.
 
 Senior police officers said the drivers have been allowed to be at Freedom Park only till 5pm. “We cannot allow them to continue protest in the night or permit an all-night protest. If they wish to do so, they must apply for a fresh permission,“ they said.
 
 The drivers vacated the protest venue around the protest venue around 6pm. The Freedom Park has been booked for some other event on Friday, police sources said.
 
