You can take a director out of a writer, but you can’t take the writer out of a director. That perhaps explains why  , who has helmed films like 'No Entry', 'Ready', 'Singh Is Kinng', 'Welcome' and 'Welcome Back', still spends his nights re-writing scenes before shooting them the following morning. As he readily says, “Main writer hoon, aur main dil se kaam karta hoon.” As his latest, 'Mubarakan', keeps its date with audiences, BT catches up with the director for a tête-à-tête. Excerpts...

 
 Whenever I start working on a subject, I don’t think about my previous films. When I made 'Pyaar To Hona Hi Tha' (1998), many people said that I should make Yash Chopra-style romance. Then, when I made 'Deewangee' (2002), they said that it was more in the Abbas-Mustan zone. After 'No Entry' (2005) became a huge success, I set out to make a romantic film titled 'Welcome' (2007). Akshay wanted me to make a film with him and was instrumental in getting Firoz Nadiadwala to produce it. However, likhte-likhte, it became a comedy. 'Singh Is Kinng' (2008) too started as a romance, but gradually, a considerable amount of comedy entered the narrative. Talking about 'Mubarakan', it’s not just a comedy. It has family, emotions... when you see it, you will agree that it’s different from my previous outings. 
 
 I try to avoid clichés and stereotypes. Also, I think that I am a good writer. When I was planning to turn director, many of my filmmaker friends dissuaded me, saying that we don’t have enough good writers. 'Swarg', 'Shola Aur Shabnam', 'Aankhen', 'Bol Radha Bol', 'Mujhse Shaadi Karogi'... I have written many superhit films and that can’t be by chance. I meet people from diverse walks of life and always try to keep up with the times. I’m conscious about my films being relevant to the times. I don’t know anything else besides movies. Jeena yahaan, marna yahaan, iske siwa jaana kahaan. 
 
 See, main hisaab-kitaab nahin jaanta. I’ve never planned a film with an eye on the box office, nor do I repeat the elements of a previous hit. Main writer hoon, aur main dil se kaam karta hoon. 
 
 It’s not intentional, it’s just that I have been looking for a good subject to make a thriller. Now, I finally have one and if it develops well, I will go ahead. I make one film in one-and-a-half to two years so, it’s important that the subject retains my interest for that long. As for working with Ajay, he’s a very good friend. However, we got busy with our respective movies. We don’t meet for months, but whenever we do, we have that instant connect. If I tell him that I have a very good subject for him, he won’t insist on a bound script. He trusts me as a good writer. 
 
  
  
 
 Why not? I like Varun a lot and have known him since he was five years old. He loves and respects me. I’d love to cast him, but it has to be a fantastic subject. 
 
 It’s all false, there are no issues. It’s just that we got tied up with our respective commitments. As for the sequel to 'No Entry', only Boneyji (producer Boney Kapoor) can tell you about it. I am always ready, but I can’t discuss money and dates with actors. 
 
 It’s unethical and unprofessional when filmmakers shortchange new writers. I’d advise new writers to first register their scripts with the Film Writers Association and safeguard their rights to their work. They should also focus on one script at a time and make it so good that no filmmaker can refuse it.
 
 I was scared. A filmmaker friend gave me a list of 134 writers who had turned directors, but failed. He said, ‘Aisa na ho tumhari film flop ho jaaye aur tumhe writer ka kaam bhi na mile.’ I then had to give interviews saying that ‘main writer hoon aur main sirf shauq ke liye direction kar raha tha’. I come from a humble background and had to support my family. I struggled for 10 years before achieving significant success. It’s only after achieving success as a director that I said I wouldn’t write for other filmmakers. In fact, it was David (Dhawan), who coaxed me to write 'Mujhse Shaadi Karogi'.
 
 No. While I want to make films and entertain the audiences, I also want to enjoy life and give time to my family. I consider myself lucky to have 15-20 superhit films as a writer. If you ask me which is my favourite film, my answer would be ‘the one I’m making next’. I don't know if I’ll make a film with a big star or a newcomer. Let’s first see how people respond to 'Mubarakan'. I’ll rest for a week or two before I go about deciding what I want to make next. It all depends on the story; it should retain my excitement for the next one year. 
 
  
  
  
 
 
