KOLKATA: High drama played out in   on Sunday morning after a   driving a   with two friends got involved in an   with an elderly New Alipore couple who were travelling in another car. Apparently peeved at being overtaken, the youth threw an agg at the   and then hit three other vehicles while attempting to flee. 

 In the past too, the youth had been involved in rash and negligent driving and had only last September, fatally injured a horse in Maidan. 
 
 The police said the Sunday incident started around 11.45am on Sunday on Humayun Kabir Sarani in New Alipore. The businessman's son, along with two friends aged 18 and 20, emerged from a restaurant and got into his Audi. When another car overtook them, the businessman's son, who was at the wheel got infuriated, and threw and egg at the vehicle. Not to be brow-beaten, the elderly motorist gave pursuit. 
 
 The businessman's son did not expect a chase. So, when he found the car doggedly pursuing him, he tried to shake him off by turning in and out of bylanes. But being a resident of the area, the motorist knew the area well and could not be shaken off. When the youth found cars waiting at the traffic signal at the Diamond Harbour Road-Majherhat Bridge intersection, he tried to take a swift u-turn and in the process grazed against three cars. Locals presently surrounded the Audi, dragged the three youths out and roughed them up before New Alipore residents intervened and rescued the trio.
 
 "Had we not intervened, the youths would have been thrashed by the irate crowd," said Kalpana Saraf, a New Alipore resident. It took the active mediation of several local New Alipore residents to stop the youths from getting lynched. They were then escorted to New Alipore police station where the matter was settled. The youths were then let off by the cops.
 
 Sayan Munshi, a local, said the businessman's son was let off after he sought forgiveness after initially acting brash and even being rude. The south division police shrugged off the incident as a minor one. "As all parties agreed to a compromise and no one was hurt in the accident, no case was registered. We ensured that those who had received even minor injuries were given first aid," said an investigating officer.
 
 
