CHANDRAPUR: Mushrooming tourist resorts have nearly blocked the Moharli-Bhamdheli-Sitarampeth stretch along the core boundary of Tadoba Andhari   ( ). With no passes left to approach   dam backwaters other than those close to Sitarampeth village, tigers and other predators are forced to make their way to the water body through the stretch, thus escalating the man-animal conflict. 

 Land sharks have purchased most of the agriculture land along Moharli-Bhamdheli-Sitarampeth road. While many resorts have already come up, others have erected fence around their lands. This fences stretch nearly for 4km along the road. 
 
 The closest passes are only near Sitarampeth. This could be one of the main reasons why tigers from core jungle frequent areas close to Sitarampeth, said Suresh Chopne, senior wildlife activist and member regional empowered committee of MoEFCC. A tigress had killed a human and several cattle apart from charging at a couple of humans in the last fortnight. Forest department has started action to capture and collar the problem tigress. 
 
 There are other issues which make matter worse. Several tourist resorts have built watch towers for wildlife sighting. Wild animals have been found killed on private properties. 
 
 Many resorts have mounted high-end CCTV cameras around their resorts for capturing tigers and other animals for their guests. Also, resort owners dispose of waste by throwing it over their wall. The food attracts herbivores close to residential areas and predators, mainly tigers, come chasing them. 
 
 Chopne said the forest department should address the root cause of the issue. He suggested ban on change of land use in buffer zone within 2km radius from core boundary of Tadoba. “Any construction in wildlife corridors or passes towards the water bodies in buffer zone should be prohibited. The   and tourism guidelines should be followed to the hilt and only eco-friendly constructions for tourist lodges should be allowed.” 
 
 Chopne claimed that the ‘go’ zone and ‘no go’ zone in buffer should be re-accessed and should be suitably altered. Of the total vehicles allowed in TATR, nearly half (52) are allowed from Moharli gate alone. Problem could be easily solved by reducing the number of vehicles at Moharli gate and distributing them equally among other gates, Chopne added. 
 
 Echoing concerns raised by Chopne, honorary wildlife warden and state wildlife board member Bandu Dhotre demanded for setting up a joint panel of forest, revenue and tourism department to study the impact of haphazard construction of tourist lodges along the core boundary. 
 
 “The revenue department authorities are least concerned about wildlife protection or forest conservation while allowing change of land use. Forest department cannot interfere in matters beyond their jurisdiction,” he said and added that local advisory committee (LAC) has made several suggestions to address this problem, however divisional commissioners office has not bothered to release its minutes since more than a year. 
 
 The draft notification of Eco-Sensitive Zone issued for Tadoba have provision of no resort development within one km radius from core boundary, but its final notification is withheld since more than two years, Dhotre said.
 
