BENGALURU: 'We miss you Leander,' cried a banner in the stands. On court, however, India didn't.

 The doubles pair of   and N   used precision and power to first cut open and then plough through Uzbekistan 6-2, 6-4, 6-1 to hand the hosts an unassailable 3-0 lead in their   Asia/Oceania Group I second round clash at the KSLTA stadium.
 
 The win, coming on the back of a performance that highlighted the importance non-playing captain   has placed on camaraderie in the ranks, will see India compete in the World Group playoffs in September.
 
 Their opponents will be known in the coming days. On a balmy Saturday evening, Balaji and Bopanna set about consolidating the lead given to them by   and   on Friday. The only surprise was that Uzbek Sanjar Fayziev opted to play alongside the experienced Farrukh Dustov. Fayziev struggled with his breathing in his defeat to Prajnesh on Friday and suggested that issues related to his arrhythmia were acting up. Tellingly, Fayziev's serve came under pressure early in the first set, with India breaking the 22-year-old to go ahead 3-1 before Bopanna held his own.
 
 Dustov, himself returning to match fitness after months out of action, saved a breakpoint in the next game with three big serves but the writing was on the wall. Targeting Fayziev's serve again, India took the first set.
 
 Balaji and Bopanna continued to use their booming serves to good effect in the second set. The fact that they had a match total of 16 aces, won 92% of points on their first serve, 94% on the second and didn't face a break point showed that everything seemed to click perfectly.
 
 With the set locked at 4-4, Bopanna served three powerful aces to put India ahead. With the pressure on Dustov, the 30-year-old committed a foot fault at 15-15 and seemed to lose his concentration. A double fault followed and India had their opening. An error at the net by the big man handed India the second set.
 
 Balaji, who defied nerves on his debut to produce a solid service game with some fine kick-serves, put India ahead in the third set opener. The break came early as Bopanna once again preyed on Fayziev's nerve, finishing off the game with a neat back-handed volley at the net. Balaji's classy backhand winner helped India go ahead 4-0 after Bopanna held serve.
 
 "Mahesh and Rohan didn't make me feel like it's my first tie. They kept encouraging me and supporting me throughout," said Balaji after the match. "It's great to be back playing," Bopanna said. "I told Balaji to treat it like any other match even though it's his debut. He was very relaxed," he added.
 
 With nothing going their way, the visitors appeared to have given up despite saving a match-point in the sixth game of the decider. Balaji then put the exclamation point with a fine volley at the net to seal a famous victory and kick off the celebrations.
 
 Bhupathi said the team, with newfound depth, could give anyone a run for their money. "We have a 37.5% chance of playing our next match at home," he said, when asked about the World Group playoff. "With guys serving as big as this, anything's possible. It's a good situation to be in," he said.
 
 India will play their reverse singles dead rubbers on Sunday. Ramkumar takes on Fayziev first before Prajnesh battles Temur Ismailov. 
 
