Unlike the current Delhi-Gurgaon nightlife scene, Noida's nightlife has not only been unaffected, but is on an upswing, with five new liquor licenses having been granted.
 
 When it comes to nightlife, among the NCR trio of Delhi, Gurgaon and Noida, Noida has usually been the poor cousin. While Delhi and Gurgaon boast of a happening nightlife scene, with numerous pubs, bars and restaurants, Noida’s had fewer watering holes and party places that are much less happening. Visitors do come to Noida, but don't stay long after dark, largely due to safety issues. However, it all changed last month.
  
  While bars and restaurants in Delhi and Gurgaon looked frantically for solutions after the   verdict barring establishments within 500m of national and state highways from selling and serving liquor, Noida’s watering holes remained unaffected, since no highway passes within that distance of the city's entertainment hubs. Excise officials report greater interest from restaurateurs than ever before, and with safety a little less of a concern in areas like Sector 18, it seems the city's nightlife scene is finally starting to buzz.
 
  
 Restaurateurs here say Noida needs to maximize this time to grow. Gurdeep Singh, who owns establishments in both Gurgaon and Noida, tells us, "The fact that there is no highway near Sector 18 and Noida's Mall Mile has been beneficial for the city. At a time when Gurgaon and Delhi restaurants are trying to find ways around the SC verdict, Noida is thriving."
 
 
  
  (BCCL/ Ranjit Kumar)
 
 
  
 Two big malls opened up in Noida's Mall Mile in late 2015 – the Mall of India and Gardens Galleria. Together, they house over a hundred restaurants that opened in early 2016. According to the UP Excise Department guidelines, new restaurants have to run with a temporary liquor license for a year, after which they can apply for a permanent one. The first five of these restaurants –  , The Tandoori Village, Swagath Restaurant, United Coffee House Rewind and Turquoise Cottage – began bar operations recently, in mid-March.
 
  Piyush Malik, the manager of the restaurant The Tandoori Village in Mall of India, tells us, "For the first year, we had a temporary license that allowed us to open the bar on weekends only. Most other food joints in the two malls in this area opened around the same time and followed the same pattern. Now, with all these restaurants completing a year, several of them will begin full-time bar operations soon. The area will soon have a sizable number of restaurants with a buzzing nightlife." Excise officials say that seven more restaurants have applied for a permanent license and their applications could be cleared soon.
 
  These officials also say that restaurateurs seem more interested ever since malls came up in the Sector 18-38 area, and so more eateries are applying for liquor licenses. Kuldeep Yadav, Noida's district excise officer, tells us, "Liquor licenses were given in March to five eateries in malls in the Sector 18 area. A few more restaurateurs, who are developing properties in the area, have contacted us saying that they will apply for licenses soon. There has been an overall increase in interest among restaurants for liquor licenses ever since these malls were developed. The number of restaurants with liquor licenses in Noida has gone up from 69 to 74 since last year and could cross 80 this year."
 
  
  More outlets in Noida have applied for liquor licenses (BCCL/ Samik Sen; Location: SodaBottleOpenerWala, Mall of India
 
 
 
  
 
 The restaurants' managements also say that they are confident that safety issues will not deter visitors from their establishments like they have in other restaurants and pubs in the Sector 18 market. "These are premium malls and not the usual hangout spots. The footfall we get is upper middle class, urban big spenders. Safety is never an issue with this sort of crowd. Earlier, when all the pubs and bars were in the open area at Sector 18, there was certainly a safety issue, which is why nightlife in Noida was more subdued. But it’s all set to pick up now," says a member of the staff at United Coffee House in Mall of India.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  In fact, restaurant owners say that Noida suffers only by reputation, when the fact is that safety-wise, it is better than Gurgaon, which witnesses brawls and scuffles regularly. Gurdeep Singh, owner of The Grand Royale Nightclub in Centre Stage Mall in Sector 18, says, "Noida suffers by reputation alone, when the reality is that it is safer than Gurgaon. I have establishments in both cities, but we hear of more brawls in Gurgaon than in Noida. Now, with the malls open, the reputation of this place will improve too. Of course, there is more competition, but there is much greater footfall too. Lakhs of new people are coming to this area. So we hope that our business here will get a boost. Overall, Noida has a resurgent nightlife scene right now."
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 It has only been a couple of weeks since bars opened in the five restaurants at the two malls, but they are already reporting higher footfall and a substantial increase in sales. Anoop Srivastava, manager of SodaBottleOpenerWala's Mall of India branch, says, "About 70-80% of the patrons coming in prefer a drink with their meal, even if it is just one glass. A restaurant with a bar gives you the feel of a grown-up place and not a college hangout joint. It’s only been a few weeks, but already, the first weekend was busier than any we have had in the last six months. I’m certain that this summer, our business will see a 30-40% rise as compared to last year."
 
  Piyush Malik adds, "There has been a 20% increase in sales already, with a slight rise in footfall too. By summer, as word spreads and other restaurants open their bar operations, we expect the figure to jump to 40% soon."
 
  
 
 Visitors have lauded this change in Noida's nightlife, but say that in order to truly get things going, more needs to be done. Neha Chauhan, a Sector 25 resident, says, "Nightlife isn't simply a restaurant with a bar. It requires an ambience. Gurgaon's Cyber Hub or Delhi’s HKV have all that. What will help Noida's establishments are things like karaoke nights, small gigs and live bands performing. That is what separates a happening place from just any food court."
 
  Dishant Khatri, who lives in Maharani Bagh and visits the Noida malls every weekend, tells us, "The place is good, and now, with so many options for food and drinks, there is variety too. But one roadblock is that they still take their last order by 11.15pm and close by midnight. The nightlife sector is starting to break free, but only partially. The timings need to be extended by a couple of hours and only then can one say that Noida has a buzzing nightlife."
 
  
  
 
 
 
