Coimbatore: The   has been commenced for the first time since their inception 59 years ago. The work began on Monday after repeated petitions and requests by farmers and residents of Tirupur, Pollachi, Karur and Coimbatore to desilt the dams as they were filled with slush, bringing down their water storage capacity.

 Engineers attached to the public works department (PWD) are handling the work. The water storage capacity of the both the dams is around 90ft each and 15ft has been now lost to slush, they said and added that they have been able to remove around 4,000 cubic metres of silt per day since Monday.
 
 “At the Thirumurthy dam site we have deployed nine earth movers and four mud movers,” said the PWD engineer incharge at the site, Krishnan M. “ So, we are able to remove around 4,000 cubic metres of slush a day,” he added.
 
 A source said the desilting of the dam would take place in three phases and only phase one has been sanctioned for now. “In Thirumurthy dam, we have to remove 33,000 cubic metres of silt in the first phase. “Given the pace at which the work is progressing now, the target will be achieved in a fortnight,” Krishnan said. The second phase of the desilting would be taken up soon if the south-west monsoon gets delayed, he added.
 
 Farmers had in their petitions pointed out that almost 3.77 lakh hectares of farmland spread across the four neighbouring districts was dependent on the Amaravathy and Thirumurthy dams for irrigation. Farmers said they used to enjoy three cultivation cycles a year.
 
 “Many farmers used to cultivate long term crops such as sugarcane, paddy and coconut. The dams also supply to at least 15 joint water supply schemes in various villages and blocks,” said a Tirupur collectorate official.
 
 “After water levels in the reservoirs dropped, we have been finding it difficult to take up cultivation even once a year. Some villages also faced potable water crisis,” the farmers had said in their petition.
 
 Asked about the reason for such huge quantity of slush in the dams, officials said the reservoirs get water from streams originating from the mountains during the monsoon. The water brings with it soil, wood and stones. The slush has over a period of time reduced the water storage capacity of the dams, they added.
 
 Pollachi MP Mahendran would inspect the desilting works at the dams on Friday. 
 
 
