CHENNAI: With the temperature soaring and no prospect of unseasonal showers, weather experts have predicted that the mercury this summer will be at least a degree above the usual recorded temperature at this time of the year. But this hasn't deterred schools from going ahead with summer classes. Although students are still writing their examinations, many schools have already announced dates for special classes ahead of the next academic year. A section of parents expressed their unhappiness at classes being conducted for even younger children in kindergarten or first standard. “Several schools are conducting these classes from mid-March to mid-April or even till the end of April, cutting into the vacation period,“ said a parent at   which has announced that classes would be held from March 27 to April 20.

 Some   branches too have announced that classes would be held between April 3 and 23. “Every year, these classes cut into the holidays but with the weather being so hot this time, there is more concern than usual be ing expressed by parents,“ said Sindhu, a parent.
 
 Keshavan, another parent and educational activist, pointed out that other factors come into play this summer when compared to previous years.“A large part of the green cover has been lost after cyclone Vardah due to which the heat will be felt even more,“ he said.
 
 He also questioned why schools should eat into the break. “When will students get the time to unwind from the exam season if they start preparing for next year right in the middle of their holidays? Private school associations also are not doing anything to prevent this,“ he added.
 
 Some parents also pointed the finger at other parents, who, they said, were unwilling to take up the issue with schools. “Some are ready to send their children to any number of classes in the hope of high scores and centums, which is unfortunate,“ said a parent.
 
 Meanwhile, a few teachers also felt that these classes were not paying dividends.“We teach the children a certain amount of portions during these months but since there is a break in between, we have to again revisit the same lessons when the schools reopen in June. Hence, it is better to start classes once and for all when they reopen,“ said a teacher of a CBSE school in Mylapore.
 
