CHENNAI: Income tax investigation wing claims it has found new evidences of unaccounted money allegedly accumulated by state   C Vijaya Baskar through illegal mining of stone quarries by his family members in his native   district. Sources in I-T investigation told TOI that the probe into the properties owned by Vijaya Baskar’s family members and close associates was almost complete and very soon the department would initiate moves to attach them.

 “Our probe has shown that the minister’s family members, who own   at   in Pudukottai district, had mined three to four times the permissible limits. We engaged officials from the Central Public Works Department (CPWD) and also deployed drones to do the assessment,” said a senior I-T official. The additional income earned from illegal quarrying was not accounted for by the promoters, he said.
 
 “It is only after we conducted search and survey in the quarry that we decided to measure the resources smuggled out from there,” said the official.
 
 The official said I-T sleuths had gathered evidences to link Vijaya Baskar with Namakkal-based contractor K R Subramanian, who committed suicide on May 9. “Documents seized by us from various places on April 7 and 8 corroborate the minister’s connection with the contractor. Both had financial dealings in connection with construction of buildings at various places for the health department,” said the official.
 
 The searches at Subramanian’s office and residence were carried out on the same day when the minister’s house was raided. But on May 8, Subramanian was found unconscious at Sevutranganpatti village in Namakkal district and was declared dead soon after being taken to hospital.
 
 Asked about the I-T findings, Vijaya Baskar told TOI, “We have followed the rules at every stage. If the department has any query or doubt, we are ready to answer. We will extend full cooperation to officials”.
 
 The minister, his wife, the family’s chartered accountant and advocates have been questioned by the I-T investigation wing. “We are on the verge of completing the investigation. The Enforcement Directorate will initiate probe into the money laundering charges once we complete the probe,” said the official.
 
 Vijaya Baskar was linked to illegal sand mining baron J Shekhar Reddy and ghutka dealers in Chennai. A confidante of Vijaya Baskar was Reddy’s partner and the minister was a silent partner in the business. I-T officials started probing Vijaya Baskar’s financial dealings after the raids on ghutka dealers a year ago.
 
  Apart from the minister, many other health department officials and some police and central excise officials were allegedly involved in the ghutka scam. I-T also unearthed a massive sand yard in Pudukottai close on the heels of the raids on Vijaya Baskar.
 
