CHADRAPUR: As many as   in the special newborn child unit ( ) at Chandrapur Government Medical College and Hospital (Chandrapur GMCH) over the last five months. The monthly child death figures for August stand at 49, up from 24 in April. The hospital administration has, however, denied any negligence and claimed that death rate of up to 15% is possible among newborn children.

 Statistics show 7,367 deliveries were carried out in GMCH during 2015-16. Out of these 2,170 children were admitted to SNCU and 270 (12.4%) have died. In 2016-17, 7,149 deliveries were carried out, 2,555 children were admitted at SNCU and 307 (12%) died. In comparison, a total of 6,705 deliveries were carried out in 36 private maternity hospitals in city in 2016-17 and only 34 (0.5%) newborn children died.
 
 The death rate of newborn children has risen steeply since April this year. While 24 (12.4%) newborns died at SNCU during April, the death rate rose to a high of 20% and 18.9% in July and August respectively, informed deputy leader of Congress in state assembly, MLA Vijay Wadettiwar. He slammed the health administration for such a large number of newborn deaths.
 
 Wadettiwar said such a large number of newborn deaths at SNCU in Chandrapur GMCH is unfortunate. “There are two powerful ministers from city, still entire health system has collapsed at government hospital thanks to touts and private hospital nexus,” he charged after meeting Chandrapur GMC dean Dr SS Morey and civil surgeon Dr Umesh Newade.
 
 The MLA also alleged that many touts are active around GMCH and con patients at GMCH to go to private hospitals for hefty commissions. He also showed a letter from the medical superintendent of the hospital to the superintendent of police, charging a cop stationed at the police outpost in hospital premises with working as a tout for a private hospital. The cop was transferred after the complaint but reinstated at the same police outpost after a few months, he alleged.
 
 Wadettiwar also charged that government ambulances were being used to take patients from civil hospital to private hospitals. He demanded an inquiry into the matter and action against those responsible for high number of child deaths.
 
 GMCH authorities, however, claim that the high mortality figures for newborn children are deceiving. Morey said that around 15% to 20% children delivered out of 1,000 have some or the other critical ailment. He cited reasons like premature delivery, poor weight, discharge of faeces inside ovarian chamber by child before delivery, lack of proper development of heart or lungs in child, as a few of the reasons for deaths of newborn after deliveries.
 
 Morey maintained that around 250 to 300 children out of 1,000 newborn face threat to their life and need to be admitted to SNCU. The SNCU has 40 beds and is equipped with all modern facilities at GMCH, and is monitored by specialist doctors and technicians, he clarified in a written statement.
 
