PUNE: Every day, Jui Ladakat and her college mates face hardships as they try to cross the busy Jangli Maharaj Road near Modern High School since the   at the junction has faded.

 Ladakat’s case isn’t singular. Zebra crossings on several roads across the city have faded over time, creating problems for pedestrians.
 
 For instance, people walking on   near   and Deccan Gymkhana face similar problems. Pedestrians claim that motorcyclists take undue advantage of the lack of proper markings and often halt their vehicles on faded crossings leaving very little space for walkers to cross the road.
 
 “Pedestrians have to cross the road almost from the middle because there are no proper markings on the road to ensure the vehicles would stop,” said Amey Sathe, a frequent visitor to Deccan Gymkhana.
 
 Sathe added that pedestrians often face problems crossing the road at Khandujibaba Chowk where the markings have nearly vanished. 
 
 A lot of vehicular traffic moves from JM Road to Khandujibaba Chowk. Nearly half the vehicles turn towards Karve Road while the remaining go straight towards Lakdi bridge.
 
 “There should be visible crossings as well as proper signals for pedestrians,” Sathe pointed out.
 
 Vikram Patil, another pedestrian, said that JM Road lacked visible pedestrian crossings. “After Balgandharva Chowk, the road has no proper zebra crossing until Deccan Gymkhana. A crossing was created at a lane near Sambhaji Park, however, the pedestrian signal often remains shut, making it difficult to reach the other side of the road. The situation on   is the same since zebra crossings have faded at almost all chowks,” Patil shared.
 
 Local residents have stated that every prominent chowk should have pedestrian signals, with large displays, so that motorists would be deterred from jumping signals and pedestrians would be able to cross the road conveniently. 
 
 The city police’s traffic department has written to Pune Municipal Corporation’s ( ) road department regarding touching up the zebra crossings. “In the letter, we have identified areas and locations where repainting is required. The crossings should be touched up frequently to ensure pedestrian safety.” 
 
 PMC officials said that they had chalked out a plan to repaint zebra crossings and work had been scheduled in a phased manner across all prominent roads. 
 
 Rajendra Raut, head of PMC’s road department, said, “Re-painting zebra crossings is taken up at regular basis. The quantum of vehicles on most roads in the city is huge. Besides oil spills, accidents, frequent applying of brakes and variations in temperature result in the paint eroding faster. We will ask the authorities concerned to re-paint the faint zebra crossings especially on roads located near schools and colleges, where the quantum of daily walkers is more.”
 
 
