The Supreme Court’s decision to ban serving of liquor within 500 meters of state and national highways has created a cause of concern amongst the industry with various industry bodies expecting imminent loss of jobs, business and a dent on country’s image. 
 , former Chairperson of   and President of The   tells 
  the industry will engage with the government to resolve the issue in the best way possible.

 
 
 We respect the honorable Supreme Court’s decision to curb drunken driving and valuing human life. A person who has to drink and drive can do so at home and get on the road or do so a kilometer away before driving on a highway. The solution is strict implementation of traffic rules and strengthening highway patrol force. Stronger law enforcement and social messaging will be a bigger deterrent.
 
 
 Interestingly, the entire city of Gurgaon was built first, followed by the development of the national highway as the major transportation line of the city. As a part of the city master plan most hotels have been developed on plots which were earmarked by the state government and then allotted to hotels. Most hotels and restaurants have been developed and built at an expense of thousands of crores, so we are worried not only about the business but also about the impact of the ban on employment, the positioning of the city of Gurgaon as a millennium city and the inflow of foreign tourists. The number of tourist arrivals in India is close to stagnant, whilst the new launched e-visa scheme is a step in the right direction, the ban on consumption of alcohol beverages is a step in the opposite direction.
 
 
 
 There is a vast difference between a liquor vend and a restaurant. Hotels and restaurants which are close to the highway are actually not the places where you can pick up a bottle of alcohol and go back into your truck or car and start driving. A restaurant in a hotel or outside a hotel serves alcohol after attaining all the due licenses. A distinction also needs to be made where liquor is being merely bought as in bottles being bought at a vend and where it is being served in a regulated atmosphere like in a restaurant. You can be a minor and yet drink at home but a restaurant is criminally liable if it serves alcohol to anyone below 25 years of age.
 
 
 We are among the safest places to enjoy drinks and among the most responsible people serving it as neither do we serve liquor to anyone underage nor our staff serves drinks beyond permissible limits. That is why enforcement of rules will be a bigger deterrent than bans. There are countries in Europe and even closer to India like Dubai, where a case of drunk driving will not only cancel your license, but will also put you in prison. I think much more needs to be done with enforcement rather than closing down restaurants and bars.
 
 
 
 A restaurant is not just a place to drink or get drunk. It is part of the city’s social fabric. Most international cities that we love are famous for their cafes, brasseries and restaurants. Gurgaon has a great culture of some really nice award winning restaurants in hotels and malls, which add to the character of this millenium city. Gurgaon is home to the head offices of more than 80 per cent of Fortune 500 companies. More than our image, such messages impact the country’s image abroad. If our message to the world is to ‘Make in India’ then people have to first ‘Make it to India’. The word ban sends a wrong message globally and puts off people from travelling to countries with bans. 
 
 
 
 We all agree with the spirit of the decision and are willing to be partners in taking the message against drunk driving forward. We will approach our respective state governments and seek appointment with central ministries and the Honorable Prime Minister to express our concerns, engage with political leadership and come up with viable solutions. Many city roads became highways later as the city grew or municipal plans changed. At many places highways are actually roads used to commute within a city. Hence, it is very important to differentiate between a highway and a city road. Ideally, where we have a municipal jurisdiction of a city, it should be considered as a city road as people use that to travel within the city.
 
 
