The dance of democracy reached its culmination in Noida yesterday as the three constituencies in Gautam Budh Nagar – Noida, Dadri, and Jewar – went to polls for the assembly election. Among the 12 lakh odd voters in Noida, there are over two lakh youngsters who are casting their vote for the first time this year. We spoke to some of these youngsters – most of them students in the colleges of Noida and Greater Noida – about the experiences of their first elections, the joys of voting, and the feeling of being all grown-up.

 
 
  (BCCL)
 
 
 
  
  First-time voters tell us that though they were a bit confused, they were helped through the process by officials at the polling booth in the college (BCCL)
 
 
 The first-time voters admitted there was some confusion and lots of excitement, with many of them comparing it to the first day of college. Roshan, a 1st year student of BTech from  , told us, "This was my first time voting, so there was some confusion in my mind. I was a bit nervous because I didn’t know what to do and how to go about it. Thankfully, the officials at the booth guided me through the process. It was almost like the first day of college all over again."
 
  
  Making a critical decision: A student casts her vote (BCCL)
 
 
 Students were specially appreciative of the Election Commission’s initiative wherein they were able to register themselves as voters and get voter ID cards through their colleges itself. Tamanna Singh, who is pursuing BBA from  , said, "The college authorities helped us get our voting IDs made and got us listed in the voter rolls. It was quite fun, voting. I know it is a big responsibility, but who says it can’t be fun as well? You feel all responsible and grown-up after you vote."
 
  
  Students were being guided through the process by the   officials (BCCL)
 
  
 Noida is home to several thousand students who come from other parts of UP and stay here for their education. Many such students got themselves registered here instead of in their hometowns, saying that it wouldn’t be feasible for them to travel to vote. Allahabad native Pragati Jaiswal, a second year B Tech student at  , said, "I have my exams beginning next week, so I wouldn’t have been able to travel to my home town to vote then. This is much more convenient, otherwise, we students are usually the neglected class. Naa hamari vote ghar par hoti hai, aur na college par."
 
  Prashant Sharma, her junior, added, "Who would take a train from Noida to Allahabad just to vote? Neither do we have the time nor the money for something like that. Since we are here for four years, it makes sense to vote here only. At least for these four years, we are Noidawallahs."
 
 
  
  First vote wala picture: Wasi (BCCL)
 
  
 Even students from other states had registered to vote in Noida, saying that since they are staying in Noida for a few years, it is the politics of UP that affects them, rather than their home state. Satyendra Kumar, a first year B Tech student at Sharda University, said, "I’m from Bihar, but right now, I live here. So the elections here matter more to me than the ones in my home state. For the next three years, the policies of UP government will affect me more than those of Bihar. So I’m glad that the Election Commission made this provision for us, and we could vote."
 
 
 
