By: Sidhartha Roy

 NEW DELHI: In the wake of the recent protests by taxi unions against the decision of  's transport department to make   in commercial vehicles mandatory, the government is planning to ask the Centre for some clarifications on the issue. 
 
 A recent notification of the Union road transport ministry had made installation of speed governors in commercial vehicles mandatory. The move is aimed at reducing road accidents by limiting the speed of commercial vehicles to 80 kmph. 
 
 Following the notification, the transport department of the Delhi government had made it mandatory for all commercial vehicles to install speed governors in order to receive a fitness certificate. The decision is mandatory for all type of taxis, including kaali peelis and taxis run by cab aggregators. 
 
 The decision, however, has resulted in protests from taxi unions which said that a number of cab drivers and owners wouldn't be able to bear the cost of installing speed governors. 
 
 "We are asking for a clarification from the ministry of road transport and highways. While the notification is very clear for new vehicles, which need to have speed governors from May 1, there is not much clarity about older vehicles as they have not received much of a window to retrofit their vehicles with speed governors," said a Delhi government official who did not wish to be named.
 
 "We would like to know if we can provide some lead time to older vehicles to be retrofitted with speed governors," the official added. While the Delhi government is following the notification from the Centre at the present, it might also come up with its new notification after reviewing the original clauses. 
 
 The decision to make speed governors mandatory in all commercial vehicles has also been opposed by taxi operators who ply their vehicles under the  .
 
 The Delhi Taxi and Tourist Transporters Association had said that speed governors should be installed only in vehicles that ply locally in the NCR. "All India Tourist Permit vehicles should be kept out of the ambit of this order as these vehicles usually run intercity and remain out of the city traffic most of the time," said Sanjay Samrat, president of the association. "The decision is has been taken in haste and has not given any cushion for owners who have bought vehicles prior to these orders," he added. 
 
 The Delhi government, however, is not making any exemption for taxis with All India Tourist Permit. "There is no exemption for cabs with All India Tourist Permit and they will also have to comply with the decision," the official said.
 
