CHANDIGARH: MC To   10 Times, Charge `10k For Offence In Commercial Areas  
Fed up with rampant littering in the residential and   of the city , the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation (MC) has decided not to let off easily offenders who get away by paying a fine of only Rs 500. 
 
 Taking a strict stand against people responsible for creating the menace, the civic body is all set to increase the fine by 10 to 20 times -Rs 10,000 in commercial areas and Rs 5,000 in residential blocks.
 
 The MC decided to incorporate this clause in its sanitation bylaws after the civic body's general house unanimously approved the move in its last monthly meeting. “We have already moved the file for adding of this new clause in our sanitation bylaws. The intention of the move is to heavily penalize violators so that they do not repeat the offence.
 
 The current fine of Rs 500 hardly bothers violators and they continue to throw gar bage anywhere they find it convenient for them. We will also ensure strict implementation and enforcement of the new clause by deploying adequate number of our staff,“ said municipal commissioner  
 
 “Under the new clause, the penalty for violators in residential areas will be Rs 5,000, while in commercial areas the fine has been fixed at Rs 10,000.Since the house has given the consent, procedural work on the file has already started. Very soon it will be the part of the sanitation bylaws,“ he added. Mayor Asha Jaswal said, “The need to impose the heavy penalty came up as a suggestion from the city's residents.
 
  After being elected mayor, I have been regularly meeting people and visiting public places and during my deliberations with the people I was asked to take stern action against littering by increasing the penalty amounts. People said the problem is major in the back lane areas of the sectors. We will also educate the people not to throw the garbage in non-designated areas of the city to make Chandigarh a clean city and   successful.“
 
 Sources in the MC's sanitation wing revealed that they have identified the areas where people litter garbage. “In most areas, people throw garbage in the night. This will be monitored closely and offenders will be penalized,“ said an official.
 
