Nashik: The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and the Congress may announce their alliance for the civic polls over the next two days.

 Both the parties are currently holding seat-sharing talks for the election to Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC), which will be held on February 21. 
 
 They are expected to enter into the alliance on 50:50 basis, plus or minus one or two seats, sources privy to the talks told TOI.
 
 The NCP said both the parties have reached consensus on several seats, but decision is yet to be made on sharing of seats in three-four prabhags.
 
  “The formal announcement of the alliance is expected in a day or two,” the party said.
 
 Speaking to TOI, NCP’s city chief Ranjan Thakre said, “We are in talks with the Congress to form the alliance, announcement for which will be made shortly. We have decided on 50-50 seat-sharing formula with the possibility of one or two seats more or less. We have already reached consensus on some seats and discussion is being held for one remaining seat.”
 
 He said, “We are yet to reach a consensus on sharing of seats in three-four prabhags. NCP’s leader Jitendra Avhad and Congress leader Radhakrisha Vikhe-Patil are holding talks to resolve this deadlock. The announcement regarding the alliance will be made immediately after both the parties reach a consensus.”
 
 The NCP and the Congress had jointly contested civic polls in 2012 where they had contested polls on 50:50 seat-sharing formula. While the NCP had won 20 seats then, the Congress had won 15 seats. 
 
 The NCP is already facing a tough time as four of its leaders, including former Dy CM Chhagan Bhujbal and his nephew former MP Sameer, are in jail for the past 11 months. 
 
 Recently, former MP and sitting chairman of Nashik APMC Devidas Pingle was arrested on alleged corruption charges. Chhabu Nagare, the former youth wing president of the NCP, is also in jail for his alleged involvement in fake currency notes case.
 
 On January 5, NCP chief Sharad Pawar had kick-started campaign for the elections to Zilla Parishad and municipal corporation from the onion turf of Nashik district at Pimpalgaon. 
 
 During his visit, Pawar had hinted at cleaning the party’s image, which he claimed “was maligned due to some wrong people”. 
 
 
