I want her to be part of all my films. If there are no female roles, she can play the male characters,” quipped  , as we sat down with the director and his current muse,  . Srijit’s assertion of Vidya’s prominence as an actor was even more special since the two of them were in town on Wednesday — International Women’s Day — in the run-up to the release of his Hindi debut,  . Vidya playfully pitched in, “Carry on, it sounds so good,” setting the ball rolling for an adda on a rain-drenched afternoon. Excerpts:

 
 
 Srijit: Begum Jaan goes beyond the immediate historical backdrop of Partition. Begum Jaan, the character, is the madame of a brothel and the story is set during Indian independence. Beyond the obvious — the feminist narrative of 11 women trying to fight for what they call their own — it’s the space bit that becomes important. The fierce protectiveness and possessiveness about one’s space come to the fore and the magnitude of this space increases with each line; my house follows my body, so on and so forth. This is what the spirit of Begum Jaan encapsulates. This is also what attracted Vidya to the film. (Mahesh) Bhatt saab would often throw these questions at me, ‘So Srijit, why do you want to do Begum Jaan?’ I thought Vidya would be able to identify with the fierce individuality of the character. No one is allowed to intrude upon her space; she is a woman with a mind of her own.
 
 
 
 
 Vidya: I loved Rajkahini. Srijit had come to me with Rajkahini and I couldn’t do it. Then he came back to me with Begum Jaan; he had not yet written the script. But I saw the great power of the film. You would think that a sex worker has the least sense of ownership over her body, but then, no one reaches there by choice, but circumstances. Begum Jaan feels what I could relate to — my body, my rules. She initiates the other girls into the business, but is protective about all of them. In Munnabhai too, a handful of elderly people in an old-age home were seen fighting for space, but here, the one waging the war is the one who is least expected to do so… If she could, she would stake a claim over the sky above her space.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 V: I was hoping I could abuse in Bengali but that chance was taken away from me. That’s another story. I don’t think it was tough. When I read what Srijit and Kausar (Munir) had written, Begum Jaan came across as both a tigress and a lioness. Srijit didn’t want me to take part in the workshops with the girls as there was need to maintain some distance with them.
 S: She is a very easy-going and down-to-earth person; striking a bond with anyone who comes naturally to her. That bonhomie would have been counter-productive for the character. She needed that slight distance as the matriarch of a household. Our preparation was more psychological. One month before the shoot, she would ask me excruciatingly detailed questions like, ‘When Begum Jaan was 14, what exactly happened?’, ‘Was she abused which could have left a scar on her conscience?’, ‘What happened when Begum Jaan got married?’, ‘Suhaag raat pe kya hua?’ I was like, yaar maine ek script likha tha; she approached it like a miniseries — 24 episodes before and 24 episodes after. No wonder, Vidya takes at least a month to prepare for a role, despite the scheduling nightmare for filmmakers looking for her dates. While Ritu is brilliant as Begum Jaan in Rajkahini, she, as a person, is very different from the character. So, she needed to be scolded, pushed, cornered and then she became that. When Vidya came on the sets the very first day, I could see Begum Jaan walking in. The first day also had  , never mind the mental state of the filmmaker who had to direct both.
 
 
 
 S: I had gone to check the subtitles of Rajkahini in Mumbai. Bhatt saab had watched Jaatishwar and loved it. He had told me if I was in Mumbai to do anything with movies, I must get in touch with him. So, I told him I was in Mumbai. He came with his entire family to watch Rajkahini. When he came out, he was trembling. He held my face and started crying. He wouldn’t let me go. He felt the story needed to be told to the masses. And then, when he asked me who would be Begum Jaan, I said, ‘Vidya Balan’. Bhatt saab said, ‘What a remarkable coincidence; even I was sure only Vidya could do this’. I had approached Vidya for Rajkahini, which was supposed to be a bilingual film. It already had a smattering of Hindi and Urdu apart from Bangla, something I thought Vidya could pull off. But things didn’t fall into space.
 
 
 
 
 
 V: Of course. When I came here to shoot for Parineeta, Autograph had just released. I already knew the song Amake amar moto thakte dao by heart. Then I went on to see a couple of his other films. Also, I have enough friends here to tell me who all in the Bengali industry I should look out for. I was at a show, where I was on stage to give away an award to Jaatishwar. I gave it to him and on stage he said, ‘I want to come to you’.
 S: We had a very long conversation on stage. 
 V: Within a few days, he was 
 in Mumbai to narrate Rajkahini…
 
 
 V: Yes, because he knows his story like the back of his hand. Also, I had not worked with another team that was so well prepared and credit for that goes to Srijit. The rains wreaked havoc and we didn’t know if we had to pack our bags and go back to Mumbai. The reason why we got through all this was because of the support of the team.
 S: There were thunder showers, rain… the visual continuity went for a toss. So, we would be prepared for three scenes at one go. We had told the team that we would shoot Scene A if it was cloudy, Scene B if was sunny and Scene C if it turned cloudy from sunny.
 V: He would scream if the girls were taking a little more time to get ready. Outside our vans, he would roar, ‘Brishti ashchhe’ and all of us would run to the shooting spot.
 Was it tough handling 11 women on the sets?
 S: One woman handled herself very well and also some others on my behalf. That’s the one sitting beside me. I, in fact, told some of the girls, ‘Arre yaar, Vidya Balan is not throwing tantrums, why are you doing this?’ I told Vidya that I was so impressed with her that I want her do all my films. If there are no female characters, I insist she does the male characters. I am sure she will pull off that too. About the girls, I told them, this is your story and everyone took care of themselves.
 V: When you are intensely involved with something, 
 the walls begin to break…. There was no mobile network, someone had some issues with the family, so everyone depended on the other. There 
 was some friction too… men don’t show it. We are women, we show it because we 
 are transparent.
 
 
 
 S: I really thought Ritu deserved a National Award. I wouldn’t mince words. But then, awards are a bonus. You can’t plan around awards or sit glum if you didn’t win any. The euphoria or the misery lasts for only two hours that particular night. The next morning is a new day. Nothing to take away from Kangana’s performance, but I was depressed when Ritu did not get what she deserved. But what she said gives me hope. One Begum Jaan will perhaps avenge another Begum Jaan. This being International Women’s Day, there’s a thing which needs to be asked. There was a time when we did not have that many women-centric films, but Vidya managed to change the narrative. Today, do you feel women are moving towards equality in terms of roles and pay scales in showbiz?
 V: Cinema is and will always be a reflection of reality. Things are changing for the better and we are taking baby steps towards that. Now, we have women at the centre of stories. The success ratio is very, very good today. About pay scales, I have not been part of a big-hero film in a long time, so I have no one to compare my pay with. I get what I command. But I do realise that in a more conventional set-up, there’s a huge gap. But actresses are demanding their pound of flesh. Sometimes they are getting it, sometimes they are not, but at least they are making themselves heard. 
 
 
