MUMBAI: Speculation was rife in Maharashtra's political circles that Congress leader   would soon join the BJP after he, along with son Neetesh, made an unscheduled visit to Ahmedabad on Wednesday night and held a secret meeting with BJP president   in the presence of CM  . According to reports, Rane was accompanied by Fadnavis to Shah's Ahmedabad residence. Rane, though, clarified on Thursday that he had no immediate plans to quit the Congress, and Fadnavis too denied that Rane would be joining the BJP in the near future.

 For well over a year, there had been talk in Congress circles that Rane, along with his sons ­ legislator Neetesh and ex-MP Neelesh ­ would soon join BJP, but Wednesday's meeting made the buzz much stronger.
 
 “It's a fact that I was in Ahmedabad along with Neetesh.It was a private visit in connection with a proposed medical college being set up in Kankavli. There is no question of meeting Shah in the presence of Fadnavis. Show me the proof, these are all rumours. Any meeting with Shah and CM can't be secret. I have a longstanding offer from the BJP, but I have no immediate plans to join the party,“ Rane said.
 
 Rane said that during a recent visit to New Delhi, he had met Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi to seek redressal of his grievances, but it was a futile exercise, since the issues raised by him were not resolved.
 
 Ever since Rane, a firebrand   leader, joined the Congress more than a decade ago, he has been at loggerheads with successive chief ministers as well as the Congress high command on the grounds that he was not appointed CM. Rane's contention was that when he quit the Sena and joined the Congress, he was assured he would be considered for the CM's post but was never given the post.
 
 Rane suffered a major setback in 2014 when his on Neelesh lost the Lok Sabha elections and he himself lost the assembly polls. Subsequently, Rane also lost a by-election from Bandra, but was elected to the legislative council.
 
 A senior BJP leader said that Rane's entry in the BJP will weaken the Congress and strengthen the BJP in the coastal Konkan belt, where the one-time Sainik has a huge presence. “Rane will take on both the Congress and the Shiv Sena simultaneously,“ he said.
 
 A senior Congress leader said that even if Rane himself denies it, he is all set to join the BJP within a week or two, along with his two sons. “It's a fact that he was in the Congress, but his heart was somewhere else,“ he said.
 
 
