edited

 Trichy: Facing the worst water crisis in decades, residents of   in Trichy have taken to protests to draw the attention of the authorities, but to no avail. There has been over 40 protests in Manapparai alone in the past one month. 
 
 While drinking water is supplied once in two or three days at areas under the Manapparai municipality, people in the rural areas are solely dependant on groundwater. But with the water table dipping, residents are now at the mercy of private water tanker operators who charge as much as Rs 5 per pot of water.
 
 Amayapuram panchayat, Samathuvam, Pannaipatti and several villages in the Vayyampatti block have been the most affected by the water scarcity. Puthanatham, Ilangakurichi, Mugamanur and Karumakavundampatti witnessed several protests in the past few days over shortage of drinking water. Traffic in Manapparai-Karur Road came to a standstill a few days ago when residents of Karumakavundampatti village staged a road roko alleging lack of drinking water supply from the past one month. About 100 villagers, including women, sat on the road with empty pots to show their plight. They lamented that water scarcity has been prevailing for over six months in the area, but it has turned worse in the past one month. 
 
 Villagers said that the water level in the borewells has fallen to below 1,000 feet. They said that they are forced to spend Rs 100 per day for drinking water alone. “While the tankers come only once or twice a week, they charge Rs 5 per pot of water. Some of them even charge Rs 7 per pot based on the demand,” said Santh Sangeetha, a resident of Karumakavundampatti. 
 
 “We are left with no option but to depend on the supply from private water tankers as supply of water by the panchayat has been irregular,” she said. 
 
 However, municipal commissioner A R Pappammal has ruled out fleecing by water tankers in the municipality limit. While acknowledging that there is a drinking water shortage in the 27 wards, she said that she hasn’t received any complaints of fleecing by water tankers.
 
 Integrated drinking water scheme to supply water to Manapparai municipality was implemented in 1991. The pipeline takes water from the riverbed near Manathattai to 50 panchayats before ending at the Manapparai municipality, covering a total distance of 49 km. There are over 12,000 house connections apart from common water connections in Manapparai municipality alone. 
 
 “We have been getting 1.80 MLD water against the designated quantity of 3.70 MLD from the scheme. There has been issues in receiving 1.80 MLD due to inadequate yield in the past few weeks resulting in the water shortage, said Pappammal.
 
 
