GURGAON: The 35-year-old man, who pumped five bullets into his neighbour’s body in Badshahpur on Saturday morning, was arrested near Pachgaon in Gurgaon on Monday night. Bijender told police that he suspected that retired armyman   used to do   and killed him for the safety of his family and children.

 Chand was shot dead on a plot, where he had gone to attend his buffaloes, behind his house on Darbaripur Road in Badshahpur. His widow had seen Bijender running away from the spot and informed the police. 
 
 After interrogating Bijender’s father and brother, the police came to know that Chand allegedly used to do some kind of black magic and that Bijernder had approached him for some help. On Monday night, following a tip-off, the police nabbed Bijender when he was going to his uncle’s place in Pachgaon.
 
 During interrogation, Bijender said that he had to kill the ex-army jawan so that he could not cause more harm to him or his family. 
 
 Bijender said that he had been suffering due to a liver-related ailment for around three years now. Perturbed, Bijender had approached Chand around two-and-a-half years ago for treatment. Chand allegedly had taken Bijender to his guruji in Rajasthan multiple times. The guruji, whose name is not revealed, used to give him medicines and perform rituals.
 
 During one such visit, the guruji had allegedly asked Bijender for a Bolero as an offering. When Bijender said he could not afford such a car, the guruji told him that he and his family would face problems and suffer losses if he did not give the offering.
 
 According to Bijender, he then gave guruji a sum of Rs 9 lakh. But, the guruji asked for another one lakh, which Bijender refused to pay. Around a year ago, he met with an accident and was severely injured.
 
 Badshahpur SHO  , the investigating officer, said Bijender blamed Chand and the guruji for the accident. 
 
 “He apparently feared that something might happen to his family too and thus, decided to kill Chand,” he said.
 
 The SHO said Bijender had fled to Balaji temple in Mehandipur, Rajasthan, after the murder.
 
 When TOI contacted Sandeep Yadav, Chand’s son, he said he was not aware if Bijender used to come home for any puja or if he had accompanied his father to Rajasthan for any treatment.
 
 
