PATNA: Taking a cue from the Unicef-sponsored ‘SwimSafe’ programme in  , the state government has decided to provide swimming lessons to children and also teach them survival techniques.
 
  “Drowning claims the lives of hundreds of children every year in the state. Of the 254 persons who drowned across the state in 2016, more than 40% were children,”   (BSDMA) vice-chairman Vyasji said, adding that kids, especially those living in flood-prone districts, would be provided swimming lessons by trained instructors. “We are planning to rope in schoolteachers as trainers,” he added.
  
  In Bangladesh, where life revolves around water, the SwimSafe programme recruits and trains community swimming instructors to teach children in the age group of 4 to 10 years swimming and survival skills. Through a 21-step process, children are taught to be confident in the water, to develop the ability to float and swim and how to rescue somebody who is drowning. They are also taught to identify life-threatening water hazards.
  
  The BSDMA will also launch an online portal soon, mentioning relevant details of all government departments, other stakeholders and private players which can be of help to the common people during emergency. The BSDMA will hold a meeting with the officials concerned here on March 8 to chalk out the nitty-gritty of launching the portal. The portal, being created by the  , is expected to be ready before this monsoon.
  
  “The move is aimed at creating a disaster resource network. The portal will contain details of rescue materials available with various government departments and also the contact details of the departments concerned. Names of private community centres and NGOs would also be there on the portal,” said a senior official.
  
  While the health department would upload the details of ambulances on the portal, the public works department would provide information on availability of cranes. Similarly, urban local bodies, individuals and business bodies would also upload the relevant information on the portal for public consumption.
  
  “During floods, we use boats to rescue people. In case of emergency, the boats owned by sand miners can also be used to ferry the affected people. In case of building collapse in remote areas, the local administration can check the availability of cranes on the portal,” Vyasji said, adding the portal would also contain information related to blood banks.
