CHENNAI: For commuters taking the   train to the airport, heading to the terminal may not be as easy as boarding the air-conditioned coach.

 Air passengers alighting at the airport station have to exit the facility and walk for 15 minutes to the terminal. While passengers complain that the shuttle service introduced by for air passengers from the metro station to the airport is erratic, promised facilities like walkalator and web check-in for easy access to the airport and hassle-free travel are yet to be in place.
 
 The much-anticipated elevated line between Little Mount and Airport was launched in September 2016. Metro rail officials had said commuters would soon be get several new facilities at the airport station including the walkalator, to be built by Airport Authority of India, which will connect both the metro station with the airport terminal. A tube was constructed linking both the platform level of the metro station with the entry of the airport. But since there is no walkalator that would enable passengers, carrying heavy luggage, easily move between the two facilities, the tube has been cordoned off. 
 
 In October 2016, metro rail launched shuttle services to improve commuter mobility. Four battery operated cars have been shuttling air passengers between the metro station and airport, and back. But commuters complain that they had to wait for more than 15 minutes to catch a shuttle service. Hence, many of the air passengers end up walking to the terminal from the station.
 
 “I started taking the metro train as the station is in front of the airport hoping it will connect through a subway or a foot overbridge. But it is such a hassle to walk out of the station and go to the airport. I might as well spend more money and take a cab. The shuttle service is also slow,” said Sundar, a city resident, who works in Delhi.
 
 With the launch of the underground line between   and  , more commuters are now expected to take metro trains to the airport. The new line gives residents of localities like Shenoy Nagar and Anna Nagar an access to mass transit facility. Metro rail has also launched direct trains from Nehru Park to the airport every 30 minutes.
 
