Nagpur: ‘Necessity is the mother of invention’ is an age-old proverb. This proved to be true once again as a common problem faced by three students of Visvesvaraya National Institute of Technology (VNIT) and their teacher while taking care of their sick friend and relative at different hospitals in 2015 formed the basis for an innovation that can alleviate a patient’s agony to a great extent. Akhilesh Patil, Madhusudhan Naik and Lakshmi Paidala, all final year students at the department of electronics and communication, VNIT, invented a ‘wireless saline and health monitoring device’ to keep the hospital staff informed about the depleting fluid level in the IV bottle. Generally, patients administered saline or IV (intravenous therapy) have to face re-pricking if the bottle gets empty or flow stops. The device developed by them can be mounted on the IV stand and it notifies the hospital staff through SMS, bluetooth alerts and radio frequency when the saline bottle is about to get empty. “During our stay in the hospital with our friend, we found that it was not easy to keep an eye on the bottle, especially at night. There is always a chance that it may choke or go unnoticed even after getting empty. We discussed this problem with our guide PH Ghare. She too had faced similar problem. In her case, the saline bottles were wrapped with photo-resistive black material to eliminate the effect of sunlight,” said Patil. Naik added that if not monitored properly, blood can flow reverse in the bottle. “In rural hospitals and clinics, there is a need for an automatic alert system,” Naik said. Ghare said, “The basic version of the device is ready to install. We are planning trials in hospitals soon. We also plan to make and manage wireless sensor node network of our device so that multiple patients can be managed.” This device has been designed in the department of electronics and communication engineering and supported by ‘Center of Excellence of COMMBEDDED SYSTEMS’ — “Hybridization of Communications & Embedded Systems” under TEQIP 1.2.1. “The Centre of Excellence supports students from VNIT and from other colleges to carry out their innovative projects at VNIT by providing them state-of-the-art lab for R&D and product development,” said the centre coordinators Ashwin Kothari and AG Keskar.  Besides assistant professor Ghare, the team was supported by head of the department AS Gandhi.