NEW DELHI: With a 2-1 win over Jaypee Punjab Warriors on Saturday,   sealed their fifth win of the season and became the first team to qualify for the 2017   India League ( ) playoffs - the first time the franchise has managed to do that in three attempts. 

 In 2015, they had finished at the bottom of the table and last season came agonizingly close only to miss out on goal difference. The emphasis this year was to make it to the last four at any cost and the manner in which the team has steamrolled their competition so far, with two more league games to go, has been stellar. While the credit should go to a complete team effort, there is no denying the contribution of Mumbai’s forwards who have pumped in 31 goals, the most by any team so far this season.
  
 The strike-force of German international  , Indian internationals   and   and youngster Harmanpreet Singh have been a nightmare for the rival defence and aided by this superb form of the strikers Mumbai sit pretty at the top of the table with 28 points. Skipper Fuchs attributes this success to the superior level at which the team has performed from the start of the tournament. 
 
 “Right from the beginning, we started on a different level altogether this year,” he tells TOI Sports. “The Indian players have improved (from last season) and the Under-21 guys, five of them, have had a good development and are playing at the top level. A lot has to do with the preparations as we did not have to start from scratch. There was already a connection.”
  
 Fuchs believes that spending time with the team off the field helped the players to come together as a unit and strengthened the camaraderie between the forwards. “Affan and I played last year and we had good connection and this year that has improved. That has a lot to do with getting to know each other off the field as well,” he says. “Connecting with Nikkin is also good; he is such an outgoing guy and I am very pleased with the time I spent with them off the field and that made it a lot easy while playing. It did not go our way in the first couple matches but later on it got better. Especially with Nikkin; we started to understand each other’s game and improved our game as strikers. In fact, all the other forwards, Roshan (Minz), Kerian (Govers), Johan (Bjorkman) upped their game brilliantly.”
  
 Affan, who has eight goals (three field goals and two PCs) to his name concurs. “Last year we got together quickly and had just three weeks to prepare so at the start there was no time to mix up but as the league progressed we put in efforts to get to know each other and created a good atmosphere within the team. This year, when the training camp started we had basic idea about what all we had to do and gelled together well,” he tells TOI Sports. “We three - Nikkin, Florian and myself - even if we were outside not practicing, we discussed about our game and there is healthy competition between us on who will score the maximum goals by the end of the season and that spurs each one of them.”
  
 Another noticeable aspect of Mumbai’s success this year has been their performance during crunch situations. While last year Coach Jay Stacy had pointed out how the team failed to close out games, this year Mumbai have managed to find ways to win from tight situations. Fuchs says that coming out on top in those games has really boosted the team’s confidence.
  
 “Last year we were unlucky. We were committing the usual mistakes, taking wrong decision at crucial junctures of the game, but this year that has changed. Especially after the first game against Ranchi when we got the equalizer we got the confidence that we can turn around games,” he explains. “Then in the second game against UP Wizards when we turned the game around, we realized we can win from any situation.”
  
 In Mumbai’s opening fixture, which was also the first game of 2017 HIL, Fuchs’ goal in the 60th minute helped the team rally from behind as they went on to hold Ranchi Rays 3-3. Against UP, it was Dutch international Robbert Kempermann who stepped up with a last-minute field goal that earned the team a 4-3 victory. After that, Mumbai went on to drub Punjab Warriors 10-4 before sealing 3-2 victory over Delhi Waveriders with young Affan finding the net in both the matches.
  
 Fuchs also points to the contribution of Stacy who is in his second year as coach of the franchise. “This year Stacy put more focus on our defensive work. We had a lot of turnovers last year that cost us points and Stacy worked on holding the defensive line. It is tough to adjust when you don’t play for a long time together so he put a lot of focus on that,” he says. 
 
 For Affan, it was the confidence that Stacy showed in him and the players that did the trick. “Stacy has played a big role in the success of the team,” he says. “We have been given specific duties by Stacy and he said that the main thing is play your heart out and stick to the plans and the results will come and we have tried to follow that. Everyone has put in their contribution and the result of that is we are at the top of the table now.”
  
 Mumbai have lost only two games so far this season - against Kalinga Lancers (3-4) and Ranchi Rays (3-7) - but managed to avenge the defeat with a 5-2 win against Kalinga and sealed their playoffs berth with a 2-1 win over Punjab Warriors. And with the kind of form the forwards are enjoying it would be safe to say the Mumbai’s strike-force juggernaut will continue to roll in the playoffs as well. 
 
 
