LUCKNOW: The first session of the 16th   on Monday will be a major test of their parliamentary skills of all the key faces.

 Those who will be observed by political pundits include governor Ram Naik, Speaker Hridaya Narain Dixit, leader of the   and chief minister Aditya Nath   and the joint leader of the Samajwadi Party legislature party Akhilesh Yadav.
 
 Though none of them is new to politics, they have all donned new caps in new roles and their skills would be tested tomorrow.
 
 Naik though has already passed one test—getting a new protocol for himself. The Samajwadi Party government had declined to accord the new protocol to Naik. 
 
 However, this is Naik’s victory outside the House. Inside, he has to walk through another test—his determination to read the full speech while addressing the joint session. Unlike governors in the past, who themselves were not much interested in reading their entire speech and would abandon it mid-way declaring that the speech may be deemed read out, the octogenarian Naik is enthusiastic and determined to read the full 50-page speech about programmes of all departments. 
 
 What makes it more challenging is that opposition parties are in a mood to disrupt when he is speaking. 
 
 Naik’s other test will be whether the Speaker tables his objection through a message before the   to the election of leader of opposition Ram Govind Chaudhary as illegal. The outgoing Speaker had already lost the election had named Chaudhary as the leader of the House, something Naik had strongly objected to. It is to be seen whether Dixit would read out Naik’s objections or ignore it .If Dixit tables it, it may enrage the Samajwadi Party.
 
 The first session of the House will also be a test for Dixit himself. Though an expert in parliamentary affairs, his skills would be tested in running the House with an Opposition up in arms. 
 
 Another thing crucially watched will be CM Yogi’s oratorical skills. Yogi is neither a member of the Assembly nor of the council. This is the first time he will face opposition onslaught. 
 
 It will also be a major test for joint leader of the parliamentary party of the Samajwadi Party Akhilesh Yadav. He would not be assisted by his uncle, senior leader Shivpal Yadav or Azam Khan. He will face charges of corruption from the treasury benches and will have to reply to them. 
 
 Akhilesh had also promised support to Naik for his peaceful speech, It is to be seen whether he will prove his words.
 
 
