GUWAHATI: The   (Aasu) has asked state police to book Nikhil Bharat Bengali Udbastu Samannay Samiti (NBBUSS) president Subodh Biswas under te National Security Act (NSA) for instigating communal tension in the region even as massive protests continued across the state on Thursday demanding action against him. 

 Subodh, who was nabbed along with his aide   from the Bajitpur area of West Bengal's North-24 Parganas district on Wednesday, was brought to the state for further investigation. 
 
 Following the attack on Aasu office at Silapathar in Dhemaji district on March 6 allegedly by NBBUSS activists, several organisations in the state are demanding a ban on the organization, withdrawal of the controversial Citizenship (Amendment) Bill, 2016, and action against the culprits. 
 
 Chittranjan Basumatary, Aasu central committee organizing secretary, said, "Biswas and his supporters have not only taken law in their hands but also disobeyed the Assam Accord. Moreover, their action has sparked communal disharmony among various sections of society here. We believe it's an act which threatens national integrity and he should be booked under the NSA."
 
 Senior lawyer Nekibur Zaman said, "Sobodh's act has led to disturbance in the state and miscreants are trying to create enmity between various communities here. Due to the bandhs and roadblocks, the government has also suffered financial loss. There is a sense of insecurity in the state after the Silapather incident and even the state government is apprehensive of a possible violence between different communities. He should be slapped with NSA additionally."
 
 Assam Police DG   said the investigation would unearth all possible angles. Sahay said, "Investigation will reveal whether the act was pre-planned or not." He added that NBBUSS, a Nagpur-based pro-Hindu Bengali group demanding citizenship for Hindu Bengalis from Bangladesh, has been operating in the state for the last two years.
 
 Subodh, who is being quizzed by state police at its Kahilipara base, has reportedly denied instigating the mob. 
 
 
