Michael Irudayaraj’s painting exhibition opened on January 7, 2017, at  , Chennai. The show features Micheal’s works from the mid-1980s to 2016 presenting his artistic journey in the last three decades. Michael seems to have moved from the abstractions of his earlier works that showcased the mastery of his skills to the caprice of watercolours and charcoal drawings depicting recognisable human figures. While the exhibition itself is not organised chronologically, Michael’s vision of capturing psychological moments speaks across canvases and works done on different media. It is interesting to see what are the discontinuities and the points of conversations in his works. 

 Michael is true to his statement, issued on the occasion of the exhibition that he would like to discard his skill (acquired over the years) and move towards art which would allow him to express himself freely. Stylistically Michael’s earlier works thrive on presenting multiple planes and frames of colours and expressions. In two of the untitled paintings of 1991 (No. 3 & 4 in picture), Michael secures the manifold and hidden spheres of psychological moments. Organised as two-panel paintings, they seem to suggest the cosmic orders of masculinity and femininity. In the works of the later years, Michael moves towards the depiction of disembodied affection freed from the hold of the male or female bodies and their expressions.
 
 The influence of Francesco Clemente, the Italian painter who worked with materials from Indian visual culture, is apparent in the watercolours and charcoal drawings of Michael that represent human figures with flowers (No. 2 in picture). Instead of the multiple frames and planes in these pictures, Michael allows the capriciousness of the medium to create the desired texture. The flowers and the shelves in the structures of Michael’s paintings provide surrealism’s dream-like extensions and transgressions of ordinary life with which they accentuate the revelations of the interior emotional states.
 
 Michael’s creative world comes alive when we realise that the psychological states he depicts through the human, animal, and bird figures are momentary, directionless and fragmentary. Indirectly Michael questions the idea of singular self and the notions of a unified ego for individual human beings through artistic techniques such as distorting the faces and figures of human bodies. We wonder what these bodies do when their hands grow into flowers or when they have to sleep with them. Michael terms this prospect as spiritual, even though his figures remain frozen and momentary.
 
 In the exhibition brochure, Natesh Muthuswamy, Michaels’ fellow   describes that his works have transformed from conceptual symbolism to watercolours with a graphic edge. Michael himself would declare that what comes to him from the vast expanse of the unknown are the final remnants of the self and they are as valid as the sense of tasting salt is. 
 
 In the pamphlet for the exhibition,   writes that the moments Michael creates in his works transcend time. Perhaps the soaring bird captured in its upward flight against the textured backdrop in one of Michael’s paintings is the key to his world. Michael Irudayaraj’s solo exhibition is open at Art Houz Gallery until January 21, 2017.
 
 (The author is a folklorist and scholar)
 
 
