Colva/Panaji: Hundreds of supporters of former chief minister Churchill Alemao and former Benaulim MLA Caetano ‘Caitu’ Silva came together for a common cause, after polling ended, and forced election officials to seal the trunks carrying the  .

 Sources said that after polling closed at the three booths at government primary school at Seraulim, officials took time to tally the number of voters. Though the total number of voters matched the figures on the list, they couldn’t tally the male, female voters count, hence there was a delay.
 
 Having sorted that issue, officials then faced stern opposition while they made their way to the strong room. Polling staff sealed the EVMs and placed them in the trunks, but refused to seal the trunks, a move which was objected to by Alemao’s polling agent.
 
 The area returning officer (ARO), who was called to the location by the election officials, threatened Alemao’s polling agent, demanded his EPIC card and threatened to get him arrested for obstruction of carrying out his duty. The polling agent called up Alemao, who arrived on the scene with hundreds of supporters. Neither did they get out of the election officials’ way, nor did they allow the EVMs to be transported, until the trunks were sealed. On learning of this situation, Silva rushed to the spot with hundreds of his supporters. The polling staff, realizing that the situation might get out of hand, summoned police, who rushed to the spot with paramilitary forces.
 
 Finally, Alemao and Silva saw to it that the trunks were sealed, before being transported.
 
 A similar incident occured in Benaulim and AAP candidate Royla Fernandes refused to allow the EVMs to be moved, but the ARO hoodwinked her, by stating that they seal the trunks, before placing them in the strong room.
 
 In Calangute, some booths saw differences arising between AAP polling agents and polling officers. “We were given sealing kits by the party. But, the polling officials did not allow us to seal the EVMs, saying only election commission seals are allowed,” said an AAP poll agent. Party workers said that, as per the rule book, party agents can provide their own wax seals to seal EVMs and officials have to comply with the request.
 
 “Our party agents were provided with seals as it is allowed as per rules. The final decision actually lies with party agents and if they're not satisfied with the seals of the polling officer, their request should be complied with,” party's national secretary Pankaj Gupta said, adding that AAP agents were allowed to put their seals at some places in the state.
 
 
