AURANGABAD: The agonising wait to get an   installed in their homes continues for   from the   taluka as   in the state   is keeping people in the dark. 

 To make matter worse, some of these villagers are getting monthly power bills though they have not consumed a single unit of power. Around a dozen families in question had paid charges towards installation of meters in 2012, but local authorities have allegedly not followed up on these applications. The aggregated bill amount is running up to thousands of rupees.
 
 Affected villagers from Mauje Gondgao in the Vaijapur taluka of Aurangabad district on Wednesday met with the officials at the monthly meeting of district electrification committee to vent their ire.
 
 Raghunath Salunke, one of the affected villagers said that it is agonizing to face such injustice as they stayed in rural areas. “While on the one hand the state boasts of effective governance, on the other hand we are still being left in the lurch. The energy minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule had promised a people-centric administration,” Salunke said. 
 
 Another villager, Sudam Salunke said while not a consumed a single unit of power was consumed since 2012, they received monthly bills despite no electric meters in place. “The ground-level staff calculates the average consumption reading and bills are accordingly generated. Ours is the classic case exposing the poor functioning of the MSEDCL in rural areas,” he said.
 
 Villagers are dependent on a three-phase cable network in the area to supply power supply to their electric pumps. But, the same cannot be used for domestic purposes and installation of single phase supply was essential.
 
 K V Kulkarni, MSEDCL’s assistant engineer, directly concerned with the matter said a new single-phase transformer for the affected residents of Mauje Gondgao was recently sanctioned. “It will take around a month to install the transformer and start the actual power supply,” he said.
 
 Kulkarni skirted queries when asked why it took five years to process the application for a new meter and initiate power supply. About issuing power bills without actual consumption, he said such cases should be brought to his notice by producing the actual bills.
 
 Last month, the MSEDCL introduced a helpline to deal with issues related to new power connections. Consumers of the state power utility will have to dial 022-26478989 and 022-26478899 between 10am and 5pm to resolve any complaints.
 
 While announcing the measure, the MSEDCL chairman and managing director Sanjeev Kumar admitted that a section of consumers face various issues while taking a new connection or in the process of change of name in ownership of an electric meter.
 
