NEW DELHI: In a bid to cross land acquisition hurdles, the   ministry has asked a leading   institute to develop airport development projects based on the concept of land pooling.

 Aviation secretary   said Ahmedabad-based Centre for Environmental Planning and Technology (CEPT) has been asked to submit development model for six airports — three brownfield (expanding existing ones) and as many Greenfield ones (new airports) — on a trial basis.
 
 The concept is that land owners will give, or pool in, much more land than required for the airport. “Infrastructure will be developed on that entire area and then land owners will be given smaller plots of the developed area whose value will be much more than that of their previous undeveloped land holding,” said Choubey.
 
 For instance, if land required for an airport is 2,000 acres, states will take 5,000 acres of land from owners through land-pooling models already adopted in states like Gujarat, Maharashtra and Andhra. “Infrastructure like roads, electricity, sewerage and water supply will then be developed in the entire 5,000 acres. 2,000 acres will be kept for the airport and plots of the remaining 3,000 acres will be distributed among the land holders who had given 5,000 acres. The value of the small developed plots will be much higher than the original value of their larger land holding before the infrastructure was provided,” said a senior official.
 
 Land acquisition is a major bottleneck in infra development and the concept of land pooling is believed to be the solution to that as per Gujarat-Maharashtra model. Under this people giving land for public projects like airports will not be divested of ownership. States governments, instead of buying land, will develop infrastructure in a much larger area around the site of the proposed airport.
 
 “Airport projects require huge land parcel at one place and are planned for at least a century. The requirement of land is very different from that of any other infra project where the size of the land required can be compromised. Secondly, airports are located very close to urban areas and acquisition of urban land is very difficult and much more expensive. This makes the project financially unviable from day one,” a senior   ( ) official said. 
 
 “Therefore we looked at various land partnership models. One example before us is the town planning schemes of Gujarat and Maharashtra. Under this, say, you take 100 acres land parcel and develop all infrastructure in the entire area including all basic facilities like water, electricity, roads, streetlights, sewerage and providing gardens. The original land owners will give a part, 30% or 40%, of their land to the project and retain the remaining part. Unlike land acquisition they do not lose land. They become partners in the enhanced value of the land,” the AAI official said.
 
 
