NEW DELHI: With the   buckling under big airlines’ pressure and proposing to double commanders’ notice period to a year, a senior   pilot has sought similar notice period for 'Aya Ram Gaya Ram politicians'. In a   post the Chennai-based pilot says that since this move is proposed to ensure pilots don’t quit suddenly and lead to flight cancellations and stranded flyers, the government should frame similar rules for the elected class.

 “Very often we witness governments being toppled by unscrupulous politicians who jump from one party to another. Not only does it cause political instability but also costs the public exchequer dear in terms of election expenses associated with fresh elections,” the pilot says.
 
 “If we have to think of public interest there can be nothing more important than having stable governments. So wouldn't it be in the greater public good if politicians stick to one party or at least give a notice period of 1 year before they switch allegiance for petty gains and cause pandemonium,” he adds. 
 
 Pilots across Indian carriers have opposed long notice periods and they say retaining employees in an HR issue in which the DGCA should not interfere, at least not tow the airlines’ line completely. Incidentally, aviation minister Ashok Gajapathi Raju was till last year of the view the government should not interfere in the notice period issue as that was between employers (airlines) and employees (pilots). On this ground he had rejected big airlines’ demand for increased notice period. But now the DGCA proposes to do what big airlines want.
 
 “… it is requested that the Government of India along with implementing the rule requiring 1 year's notice for pilots, also enact an Act of Parliament whereby which politicians belonging to political parties registered with the   give a notice of at least 1 year before they switch their allegiance. It will also be beneficial for the citizens of this country if the bureaucrats also are required to serve a notice of 1 year when they desire to resign from service. This will serve as a deterrent to those who put in their papers when superseded by their juniors,” the pilot says.
 
 This is the second time in recent months when AI pilots have expressed their genuine concerns on social media. Last December, another senior AI pilot had questioned the commitment of the political class after aviation minister Raju had reportedly said something was "lagging" in the commitment shown by AI employees when compared to their counterparts of private airlines.
 
 Titled 'Lagging In Inspiration, Not Commitment', the open letter by the pilot had said: “As a committed AI employee, an honest taxpayer and a patriotic citizen, I am constrained to point out that both the recent winter sessions of   and Rajya Sabha were a complete washout due to frequent disruptions by your colleagues in Parliament. Ninety-two hours of work were lost in LS alone and hardly any business was transacted…. employees of AI are also equally pained to observe that our politicians are 'still lagging well behind in their commitment' to the nation as compared to most of their counterparts elsewhere in the world!”
 
