GUWAHATI: Since 1696, when Ahom King   gave the festival of Bihu royal patronage for the first time by allowing it to be performed in the courtyard of Rang Ghar, to the 21st century where Bihu has almost become synonymous with commercialization, the festival has seen many changes. 

 During the Ahom reign, the Koris and the Paiks, soldiers in the Ahom army, took part in this celebration with a free mind as granaries were filled with food. They considered it as the onset of an agricultural New Year that corresponded with the spring equinox.
 
  has come a long way - from once being considered as a low-key festival celebrated by a few to a wholesome celebration accepted by all, traversing different ethnic groups, tribes, and communities - a new symbol of Assamese identity.
 
 But the most significant change that the festival has undergone in the past three to four hundred years is the participation of both sexes in the Bihu dance.
 
 It is not exactly known when males and females were allowed to dance together, but it is known that it was once considered social taboo if a man and a woman were seen dancing together.
 
 "It was the advent of the British in Assam that saw the changes of perceptions towards Bihu. A new emergence of intelligentsia among the populace back then began to view Bihu as somewhat erotic, with the mingling of both the sexes during a Bihu dance," said  , a Bihu exponent and cultural exponent.
 
 Saikia believes that Bihu was present in the state long before the arrival of the Aryans and its value was held dear since time immemorial.
 
 It was only after the coming of the British with the annexation of Assam in 1826 that Bihu was given a 'maancha', or a stage rendition. In the 1930's, litterateurs and poets like   and others decided that in order to make Bihu more popular among the people, it should be allowed to be held publicly. The first public Bihu was held in upper Assam, probably in the district of Golaghat.
 
 "It was in 1931 when Bihu was given a public shape or performance. It was held in Golaghat district. Later it continued in 1935 in Dergaon, then again in 1941 in Sivasagar, 1948 in Nagaon and 1952 in Guwahati at the historic  ," added Saikia.
 
 Since 1952, the Bihu Maancha at Latasil has continued reverberating with the sounds of Bihu. To perform at Latasil is a matter of pride for every Bihu aficionado or connoisseur.
 
 The actual Bihu performance has also undergone a lot of changes, also due to changes in technological availability. Participants earlier used to perform in a circle, with the dancers taking different positions within it, later dancers performed within a U-shape formation. Nowadays the practice of night Bihu has almost disappeared. Husori or traditional Bihu troupes going from house to house to perform has also lessened. 
 
 Some say Bihu has lost its rustic flavour, but according to one Bihu icon, the changes brought by technology is not that bad as others seem to perceive. The expert on Bihu dance and music told TOI that change is omnipresent and cannot be stopped.
 
 "Earlier there was old Bihu, a dance form which very few of us today know about. With the advent of radio, gramophone records and later on television everything changed. Singers could record their works which could be used later. Not only this, the very fact that at one point women were not allowed to participate in the Bihu dance is significant," said the Bihu exponent.
 
 In the distant past, men used to dress up as women and take part in the dance. Later on, the mindset changed and women were allowed to take part, which not only enriched the dance but added grace to it as well. Today, only the female participants are called dancers.
 
 
