LUCKNOW: Body of a 91-year-old woman was found buried in her house while her son and daughter continued to live right there for over a month in   under Hasanganj police station.

 According to police, the woman identified as   (91) lived with her son   and daughter Huma at house number D-56 in  . Her husband Rehmat Khan retired as a chief engineer from LDA and died 10 years ago. Feroz holds a BTech degree and had worked with a private company in NOIDA ten years back before he was laid off. Huma is MA in English from the  . Locals said Firoz and Huma seemed to be of unsound mind .
 
 On Saturday evening, some neighbours complained of foul smell emanating from the house and called Wasim, a relative of the family. Wasim reached the scene and asked Firoz to unlock the gate of the house but he refused. Wasim called police and when they entered the house, they were overwhelmed by the stench.
 
 SHO, Hasanganj, U V Singh said initial interrogation with Firoz revealed their mother had died about a month back and since then they had kept the corpse in a room. The brother-sister duo stayed in the same room while the body was in another room.
 
 “The room looked like it had not been dusted for years and the dead woman was lying on a cot,” police told ToI, adding, “We will register a case after autopsy. Huma, however, was not in the house when police raided. Locals said they had seen her till morning. We are trying to locate her.”
 
 Feroz told TOI, “I have been offered the job of a dean in University at London. I did my B.tech from Acharya Nagarjuna University in Andhra Pradesh. I don’t know how she died and I could sense on foul smell.”
 
 A neighbour Asha Tewari said she had seen Firoz spraying disinfectant around his house in the morning and putting incense sticks to keep away foul smell. “He kept both gates of the house locked from inside and shooed away anyone who came to him to complain of the terrible smell. He used to scale the boundary wall of the house and collect food from garbage for himself and his sister.”
 
 A shop owner in the vicinity Awadesh Shukla said “Whenever I used to pass by the side of house, I saw Huma climbing the top of the tank and shouting that she was a film star.”
 
