NEW DELHI: Over the past one year, Delhi University pondered over several changes to improve its   process from 2017-18. However, in reality, apart from a delayed start and a few tweaks, the undergraduate admission process is unlikely to see any major change this year. 

 Although the university set up an admission committee in 2016 itself, it is yet to finalise its recommendations, said sources. “All members are not on the same page on several issues, including introduction of entrance test for UG admissions,” said a member. The university doesn’t have enough infrastructure to conduct such a huge online test in such a short time, he added. 
 
 “The online entrance for masters and research programmes will be like a pilot project before its probable extension to the undergraduate courses next year,” said a senior official of the examination branch of  .
 
 The picture was different at the start of the year though. University officials were then hopeful about starting the application process early this year. In reality, the process got delayed right from the application procedure of foreign students, which usually starts in January. This year, it began in February.
 
 Traditionally, by the first week of April, the varsity announces the admission process for entrance tests for BA (H), business economics ( ), bachelor of business studies (BBS) and bachelor of financial and investment analysis ( ). This, too, is likely to be delayed till the first week of May as tests are to be outsourced along with   (DUET) 2017 meant for the postgraduate and research programmes.
 
 A senior official, however, claimed that the univeristy had failed to advance the admission process but there won’t be any delay in case of UG courses “barring those under the entrance exam mode” as usually it starts by May-end. 
 
 The university “is likely to announce the detailed process by the first week of May once the admission committee finalises the recommendations”, said a source.
 
 The admission process will continue to stay online but now each aspirant will be allowed to submit only one form. The authority has also decided to make Aadhaar mandatory from the application level. 
 
