HYDERABAD:  's Hyderabad unit that investigated   in the Emaar case is now ready to file its chargesheet in a city court. It found that two accused,  , played a major role in laundering at least Rs 100 crore.

 Name of Rajendra Prasad's son, Koneru Pradeep, is likely to surface in   as an accused. His links and chats with controversial meat exporter, Moin Qureshi, were part of latest controversy involving CBI exdirector AP Singh.
 
 Pradeep's name was missing in CBI's Emaar chargesheet filed five years ago. But ED's probe found he had plots in and around Hyderabad which were allegedly acquired with proceeds from Emaar scam. Though possession of assets from proceeds of crime is not sufficient to name a person as accused under provisions of Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), Pradeep's alleged links with controversial persons and his effort to bail out his father, Rajendra Prasad, and brother Madhu (another accused in the CBI chargesheet) goes to show he knew about money trail and his assets were proceeds of crime, ED sources said. Koneru Rajendra Prasad, according to ED sources, had laundered money to an extent of Rs 50 crore and used this to block several villa plots in Emaar Hills Township Pvt Ltd (EHTPL), a joint venture firm with APIIC and Dubai-based Emaar company as two main partners.
 
 Despite being a director in EHTPL, Koneru bought villa plots at Rs 5,000 per square yard and blocked them for sale at Rs 50,000 or more. ED attached all blocked plots worth Rs 36 crore earlier after identifying them as proceeds of crime. It also attached Pradeep's plots worth Rs 12 crore in Ranga Reddy. 
 
 Earlier, ED attached fixed deposit of Rs 20 crore in Andhra Bank account of Southend Projects and Foundations Pvt Ltd of Sunil Reddy. At least Rs 25 crore worth shares of Indu Projects held by its managing director, I Syam Prasad Reddy, too were attached. Also, Rs 73 crore taken away by Emaar-MGF firm in form of revenue sharing without sharing anything with APIIC too was attached. MGF firm's assets in Delhi were identified and attached. All these attachments were also confirmed by PMLA 's adjudicating authority .
 
 The ED has recorded statements of Koneru Rajendra Prasad, Stylish Homes official, T Ranga Rao and other accused in the case. Their statements have evidence value to fix responsibility on accused, sources said.
 
