AHMEDABAD: Following the   on Monday the   (AMC) suspended seven of its officers for their alleged involvement in a   and  . The suspension orders were issued by municipal commissioner Mukesh Kumar on Monday. The suspended officers include five assistant city engineers, one deputy city engineer and one assistant engineer.

 The issue involved passing fake bills belonging to the Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) against fictitious bitumen supplied for road construction. Earlier, in 2012-13, municipal commissioner Guruprasad Mohapatra had unearthed a similar scam of duplicate bills for various road resurfacing contracts in the city.
 
 Most of the officers suspended on Monday belong to the New West Zone and were responsible for poor road conditions in Gota, Ghatlodia and Thaltej which are constituencies of high profile MPs and MLAs, including former CM Anandiben Patel and MP and BJP president Amit Shah. The vigilance inquiries related to roads in other zones are still pending. 
 
 The probe was conducted after studying close to 900 files on the basis of two fake IOC bills that were brought to notice of the investigation team. A vigilance report delving on the officer-contractor nexus is still pending, claimed a senior AMC official.
 
 AMC officials now believe this is one of the reasons final bills were not submitted by contractors working on many road stretches.
 
 A final bill, if submitted, will require the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) engineer to issue a completion certificate, endorsing the quality of the road. “It is estimated that since deposit amount held by AMC from road contractors was just 5% of the entire contract value, many contractors let go of the 5% and made up for the loss by submitting fake bitumen procurement bills. This is what we currently think, but we may be wrong too,” said a senior AMC official.
 
 TIMES VIEW
 
 The AMC has to get to the bottom of this scam. Merely suspending a few junior officers may not prevent such scams from occurring in future. All officers who compromised on the quality of the roads and allowed such fake receipts to waste public resources should be held accountable. A quality cell consisting of experts, members from the public and AMC engineers should be formed to evaluate road quality and use public resources to its fullest.
 
 
