 was 14 when she was married off and had to settle into a chawl in Powai -raising her children, looking after her in-laws and stepping out only to the local market while her husband was working as a driver. “I heard about this organization in our locality that was recruiting and training women like me learn a craft and earn some money . So one day, I just sneaked out of home and landed at their door,“ she says with a giggle. It wasn't funny back then.

 “When my husband found me missing for a few hours, he went looking for me and found me out. I was so scared. Thought he might hit me in front of everyone but things didn't turn out that way,“ she smiles.
 
 Ten years on, Kiran, who would once move around with her head and half her face covered and sit quietly in a corner, is now the senior-most member of   (MSS), a social initia tive of   that is helping empo wer women.
 
 Kiran says she won't stop until she has earned enough to help her daughter clinch a college degree, at least. Next to her is Pushpa, who had never held a paint brush until five years ago, but is now planning an art school for children in her neighbourhood. Sitting in a cosy room on the second floor of Powai Plaza at  , a bunch of 15 such women spoke of their journey. They are all Swayam Siddhas (self-reliant women) who, with every bangle, tray , napkin or candle they make, are try ing to reclaim their aspirations.
 
 Started in 2007 as an extension of the PBWA, the organisation has been engaging disadvantaged women in Powai and educating them on business and life skills to enable their transition to an independent life. “A group of volunteers from the association started visiting the adjacent chawls and identified a group of women with nothing to do between 3pm and 6pm,“ recalls  , one of the co-founders of the group. “These were woman who had never stepped out of home after marriage and dropped out of school. They were scared to face the outside world.“
 
 Within months of start of the project, Indian-inspired jewellery label Isharya joined forces with the MSS, trained the women in jewellery design. The statement pieces, named Arinna, made their way to the fashion ramps of Paris as part of the Fall Collection preview by leading designers last July . “Today, volunteers at MSS are training the third batch of women. While there's no fixed tenure, second year onwards they earn a monthly stipend and a labour wage over a project,“ she added.
 
 For many underprivileged villagers of Masanpara in Talasari district, about two hours drive from Mumbai, the association's intervention is helping weed out obstacles. Given the overarching problem of water scarcity , PBWA had a tube well installed and distributed study material at the local school as well.
 
