JAIPUR: The construction of indoor   arena at Organized Archery, Shooting and Equestrian   (OASES) complex, Jagatpura, will remain incomplete as state government has asked   (JDA) not to initiate work.

 There is no ray of hope for completion of project, which is already pending for past seven years. The JDA has recently asked permission from the state government to complete the project. However, the permission has been denied. The JDA will now have to cancel the tenders.
 
 Sources at JDA said, “There is no specific reason given for not allowing the construction work. The state government possibly wants to give project on public private and partnership (PPP) or built operate transfer mode.”
 
 He added, “The JDA invited tenders for the project. But the financial bid was not opened. Only one firm participated to take up the work. The JDA will not refund the harness money.”
 
 The JDA has proposed to lay the OASES complex roof of aircraft aluminium sheet metal, which will be long-lasting. “A 45-metre wide and 90-metre long area was proposed be covered by the roof. Under the roof, games such as shooting, indoor polo and archery could be played,” said an official.
 
 Besides, JDA proposed to develop seating for 1,300 spectators. The estimated cost to complete the project is Rs 60 crore.
 
 “Earlier, JDA had spent Rs 28.50 crore. The remaining 31.50 crore will now be spent by the civic body. Recently, Rs 10 crore had been sanctioned by JDA to lay the roof,” added the official.
 
 Despite spending crores of public money, the project, which was initiated by the previous   government, was lying in a dilapidated state since long.
 
 After Ashok Gehlot came to power, the OASES project, which was meant to give a boost to the heritage sports of   and nurture budding talent, was ignored for full five years. With over Rs 80 crore of public money spent on the project, only 25% of the work remains to be completed. However, due to complete apathy in the past six years, the work remained suspended.
 
 However, even BJP government failed to complete the work after coming to power.”
 
