CHANDIGARH: Haryana finance minister Captain   on Friday criticized the   for supporting the ongoing dharnas and protests by Jat community in the state. Attacking the rival parties, he said that their extending support to the protests clearly indicated that the agitations were politically-motivated and had nothing to do with the common man.

 Abhimanyu said the state government had given the benefit of reservation to Jats and five other castes by bringing in a law in the Haryana Vidhan Sabha. He hoped that in view of the sentiments of the Vidhan Sabha, the court would pronounce its decision in favour of reservation.
 
 He said chief minister   had already made it clear that as soon as the stay on reservation was vacated, the government would write to the Centre to include it in the IXth schedule of the Constitution. In such a situation, there was no point of staging sit-ins demanding reservation, he added.
 
 Taking a dig at the Congress and INLD for politicking in the name of reservation, he said INLD remained in power from 1999 to 2005, yet neither the party nor its leaders ever thought extending quota benefits to the community. “Not only this, people of the state have not forgotten the Meham and Kandala incidents that happened during their tenure when bullets were fired at the innocent farmers. Now, these parties were playing with the sentiments of the people by indulging in cheap politics,” he said.
 
 “Former CM   and his party the Congress, which had plunged the state in fire of violence in the guise of the agitation, are also supporting the ongoing stir at some places. This is surprising as Hooda, was CM for 10 years, but thought about the reservation only at the fag end of his tenure,” the minister said. 
 
 Questioning the motives of AIJASS chief, Abhimanyu said, “Yashpal Malik, who is misguiding the people of Haryana, never did any agitation for the sake of   of his native state of Uttar Pradesh who are behind bars after their name appeared in cases of violence there.” He said Jats in UP, Rajasthan and Delhi had also got the benefit of reservation during the tenure of BJP governments.
 
