BENGALURU:   parked in the vicinity of   have been troubling   and Langford Town and localities around Lavelle Road,   and Residency Road for long. Having had enough, residents are meeting   to find sustainable solutions.

 According to them, commuting has become a nightmare as these buses and vans clog the roads, with the problem further intensifying in morning and afternoon when parents come to drop or pick up their children. About half a dozen schools have close to 30,000 students on their rolls.
 
 “While the schools have a few buses of their own, most students come in private vans, cars and two-wheelers. The number of students in these schools has increased steadily over the years, with some of them having close to 7,000 students. A few of us met the BMTC MD recently . She said they had 300 small buses that they were willing to give to schools at affordable rates.They will be equipped with cameras and women conductors,“ said Naresh Narasimhan, an architect.
 
 “One school has 5,500 students and only 20 buses. Others use private vans or are picked up by their parents, thus generating huge amount of traffic.We had urged the school to tie up with the BMTC. The school said the most they could do was putting up a board asking parents not to use private vans and if they do that, they need to come up with some alternative,“ said Bina Gurjer, a resident of Langford Town.
 
 “A visa service facility has also opened in Langford Garden. Close to 2,000 people come here every day , and this leads to more traffic snarls,“ rued another resident.
 
 Sunita Kumar, who lives on Vittal Mallya Road, said the traffic situation was compounded due to the presence of a large number of pubs. “During the day we have school traffic and at night, pub traffic. The problem lessened after the road was declared a no-parking zone, but school traffic is still an issue. The schools are staggering their timings, but this isn't really effective as there are so many institutions in the area,“ she said.
 
