NEW DELHI: As 
  in  , Prime Minister   today told the state's chief minister that while the Centre appreciated the "cultural significance" of the sport, the matter is in court and a final order is awaited.

 "PM Modi said he gives highest importance to cultural values of the state. He assured he will extend full support to us. Gave letter to PM saying that ban on   must be lifted and Centre should draft an ordinance on it," said Tamil Nadu chief minister   after the meeting with the PM.
 
 
 
 
 Panneerselvam said yesterday he would urge PM Modi to get an ordinance passed in favour of continuing 
  . Sources in the Union government indicated that the Centre could take a sympathetic approach, but would wait for the  's final order. 
 
 "The 
  came up for discussion. While appreciating the cultural significance of Jallikattu, the Prime Minister observed that the matter is presently sub-judice," the Prime Minister's Office said in a series of tweets.
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 Jallikattu, or bull-taming, was banned by the Supreme Court in 2014 on the grounds of animal cruelty. Since then, the ban has been revoked and re-imposed a couple of times. The matter is now in the Supreme Court.
 
 However, even as the apex court deliberates - it couldn't give a verdict in time for Pongal when the sport is played - protests broke out all over Tamil Nadu in favour of continuing the sport which Jallikattu supporters say is a "tradition", a matter of "Tamil pride" and something courts don't have a right to pass verdict on. 
 
 Marina Beach in Chennai is 
  demanding Jallikattu be brought back. Meanwhile, more than 10,000 
  at Marina Beach in Chennai yesterday. They said they would stay there until they get a response from the Centre on continuing the sport. 
 
 Across the state, student protests 
  while students continued their protests in Madurai - the epicentre of jallikattu - and Coimbatore. In Chennai, suburbs like Tambaram, Guduvanchery and Putheri, which have many colleges, students left their classrooms to protest on the road.
 
 
 
 
