SURAT: Two more peacocks were found dead at Bhandut village of   in Surat district on Saturday, taking their toll to seven in the past three days. The autopsy report suggests that the peacocks had died due to Newcastle (Ranikhet) disease. An adult peacock and four peachicks were found dead at Bhandut village in Olpaad taluka on January 19. The carcasses of the two peacocks were sent for post mortem at the animal husbandry department’s veterinary hospital at Bade Khan Chakla. While the post mortem report of the two peacocks found dead on Saturday was awaited, the reports of the other five peacocks revealed that they had died of   disease. This development has left the forest officials and veterinary doctors of animal husbandry department bewildered. A team of forest officials led by district forest officer (DOF) JH Rathod visited Bhandut village to take stock of the situation. 

 Rathod told TOI, “Ranikhet disease usually strikes during winter season when the temperature falls to less than 12 degrees Celsius. The post mortem reports say that the peacocks had died of Ranikhet disease.”
 
 The forest department puts the total number of peacocks that died due to Ranikhet at five which is at variance with the villagers who claim that seven peacocks were found dead in the last three days. 
 
 Bhandut village sarpanch   said, “A total of seven peacocks died in the last three days. On January 19, three peacocks were found dead, while two had died at the birds hospital at Pal. People had spotted four to five other peacocks in the village which looked weak. We fear that more peacocks could die and therefore the forest department should act fast. The village has around 30 peacocks and they live in the fields.” Veterinary doctors said, “Most of the dying peacocks can still be saved if they are given medicines on time.” 
 
 Birds hospital chairperson   said, “Ranikhet is a contagious disease and it spreads to those who come in contact with the affected birds. Cough, contraction of veins, diarrhoea, swollen eyes, loss of feathers, drooping neck, depression and nausea are its symptoms. The illness affects the metabolism and neurological system of the birds.”
 
