KOLHAPUR: The impact of the   ( ) bank’s struggle with cash crunch is now hitting farmers as they remain clueless of their loan status.

 With just two weeks left for the kharif season, the KDCC’s cash crunch is affecting loan disbursement across the district, which in turn is impacting pre-monsoon buying of seeds, fertilizers and pesticides in the district.
 
 Pratap Chavan, KDCC’s chief executive officer, said, “The present cash crunch situation has evoked memories of the period when demonetisation was announced. We disbursed 55% of the total crop loan of the district. For the 2016-17 financial year, the bank disbursed crop loan of Rs 1,436 crore against the Rs1,000-crore target. The government has set a target of Rs 1,093-crore for the 2017-18 fiscal, which translates to 55% of the total crop loan target in the district.”
 
 The bank caters to the needs of over 3.5 lakh farmers. With only two weeks left for the monsoon, the bank has been facing cash crunch which has hit seed, fertilizer and pesticide purchase for the kharif season. 
 
 Chavan added that he had written to the   (RBI) demanding a disbursement quota be reserved for currency chests. “An apex bank should fix quota for the district’s   while disbursing cash for currency chests. This will help with daily banking. Banks have been witnessing a trend of high withdrawal and low deposits, which disturbed regular banking activities. We are getting Rs 6 crore against the daily demand of Rs 30-35 crore.”
 
 He added that the central bank has not taken a call on cash deposited in the old denomination notes. “We have been incurring financial losses of Rs 3 crore a month. If banks exchange currency, fresh cash would be utilised for crop loan disbursement. Customers have been transferring the approved crop loans to other accounts through Real Time Gross settlement (RTGS). Such activities have raised questions on our own banking as we not able to disburse money to our customers.”
 
 A farmer from Karveer taluka, “I have taken a kharif crop loan. But as the branch has been facing cash crunch issues, I was told to transfer the amount to my account in another bank. However, this is a time-consuming process. If this situation continues, why would one opt for district banks? Farmers should bring down their dependency on district banks.”
 
