Every slum has its business. At Dipti Signal, one of the city’s most infamous slums, liquor is sold like water. Crowded by rural migrants who have come from neighbouring states to escape poverty and are now mostly working as labourers, the labyrinthine area is known for lawlessness.

 Amid the misery, there are some women who took a plunge into entrepreneurship. Instead of being trapped in poverty, they have carved out a life of enterprise. Besides taking good care of toddlers, these women are wearing the pants in the house. Their minds are always busy strategizing plans to expand their small-scale businesses.
 
 After getting married, Ashwini Bharti came here from Dongargarh about six years back. Back then, her husband had a decent job and they would live in Wardha. But the company he was working in closed down suddenly. “We sold our car, which we had bought on loan. Since we couldn’t afford to stay in Wardha, we shifted to  ,” says Ashwini.
 
 While her husband was unemployed and remained depressed, Ashwini went door-to-door selling saris. This she did for seven months after which she had “an idea that changed her life”.
 
 She rented a small shop in the slums and stocked it with saris bought from wholesale dealers in Itwari and other local markets. “I would keep a few saris but of different variety. The initial four months, there was a slump. Not many customers came and those who did, were very hard to handle, this being a slum area,” she recalls.
 
 Ashwini then started selling everything a woman needs — clothes, lingerie, sanitary napkins, jewellers, cosmetics and bangles. The word spread and, slowly, her little shop started having more customers than it could accommodate.
 
 A mother of two, Ashwini, once a homely woman who would not go shopping alone, is today running the house. “My husband is employed now but I pay for most of the expenses including my kids’ education,” she says.
 
 While many women of the slums are working as daily-wagers, Ashwini is proud that she works for herself and is even creating employment for others. 17-year-old Purnima Tandan, who lives in the same slum, is assisting Ashwini. “My father is a labourer. I make Rs2000 a month here and give that money to him,” says Purnima. 
 
 A little ahead of Ashwini’s shop, is another one selling almost the same stuff. Meena Mahamalla is breast-feeding her infant while two customers decide on which sari to buy. Her other two kids have just come back from school and are having lunch.
 
 Meena, 33, stepped into the business of selling saris and fancy items in 2008 as her husband was unemployed. She had taken a loan of Rs1 lakh, most of which she has managed to pay off by now.
 
 Her husband, who is now an LIC agent, helps her in the business but Meena continues to be the boss. She is a graduate and even pursued post-graduation for a year.
 
 She might not have a degree in business management but she manages her business well. “In the beginning, women would shy away from coming to my shop as there was a liquor shop nearby. To attract customers, I started displaying colourful bangles outside and sold them less than the market price,” says Meena.
 
 During the recent demonetization crisis, many could not pay the monthly instalment of loans. But Meena received a special certificate of appreciation by the sanstha. “I paid Rs5,500 in coins of ten,” she says.
 
 Like them, there are several women in the slum who, not wanting to work as maids or labourers, have found better ways to make money. 24-year-old Rajni Gangboir takes care of a general store that her brother owns. She knows all the dealers and suppliers, and handles all the nitty-gritties alone. The way she does mental calculations and bargain with dealers, one wouldn’t know she is a school -drop out. 
 
 In a couple of days, Rajni is getting married to a farmer based in Chhattisgarh. “While women from Chhattisgarh came to Dipti Signal for work, I am going there leaving all my experience behind,” says Rajni, who hopes she doesn’t become just another labour working in agricultural fields. 
 
 
