KOLKATA: An Alipore court on Wednesday issued directives to the chief judicial magistrate to oversee the exchange Rs 5 lakh--which the CID seized from Khadim owner Partha  's abductors--from RBI, as the ransom was in now-demonetized Rs 500 and Rs 1000 currency.

 A part of the total ransom paid, suspected to be Rs 5 crore, had allegedly reached terrorists, who planned the 911 US attack, CID mentioned in the chargesheet. The money was first paid to Aftab Ansari, mastermind of the shoe baron's abduction in 2001, in Dubai through hawala.
 
 The exchange order came from second additional district judge (ADJ) Arun Kiran Bandpadhyay, who said a magistrate be entrusted with the job and chief judicial magistrate of Alipore   Choudhury should oversee the process. The court said the currency's photographs and numbers should be recorded to prepare an inventory before the notes were sent to the RBI. Senior criminal lawyer Sekhar Basu said, “This is imperative as the trial outcome was still not known. Should CID fail to establish its charges in court, the money has to be returned to its lawful owners. The old currency will have no value by then.“ If the trial indicts the CID charges, the seized currency will be handed over to the government exchequer.
 
 Shoe baron Burman was on his way to his factory when he was abducted from Tiljala and was kept confined to a house at Pakuria in North-24-Parganas. He sustained a bullet injury when the abductors re portedly fired at him while stopping his car and taking him hostage. The abductors had demanded Rs 5 crore as ransom and part of it was sent to Dubai through hawala, which ultimately landed up with 911attackers.
 
 The CID mentioned in the chargesheet that the initial demand for ransom was Rs 20 crore, but the amount was negotiated to Rs 5 crore, decided to be paid in two instalments. But the abductors were arrested after Rs 3.75 crore was paid. But neither Partha nor his brother Siddharta admitted in court they paid the ransom.As Siddharta and six members of the Roy Burman family tried to mislead court, they were also slapped with perjury charges, but they moved the HC and got a stay order, said Naba Kumar Ghosh, public prosecutor.
 
 Ghosh said in May 2009, the Alipore court sentenced accused Aftab Ansari, Happy Singh, Aquib Ali,   Punji and Asabuddin to life imprisonment. Happy Singh died in an accident inside Presidency jail in 2014, while three other accused, bar singer Swati Pal, Babloo Zafar and Noor Ahmed Mollah, turned approvers. “Recently Omar alias   was arrested and for him again 63 of the witnesses had to be re-examined,“ Ghosh said.
 
