NASHIK/ SHIRDI: Months after  , banned notes of Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 continue to find way into donation boxes at famous temples and shrines in and around Nashik. 

 More than two-and-a-half months since the deadline for citizens to exchange old currency, devotees are still dropping the demonetized notes of Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 in donation boxes of Shirdi,  , Kalaram Mandir, Saptashrungi and other prominent temples and shrines in Nashik division. 
 
 “At Shirdi temple, hundis (Donation boxes) are opened every Tuesday and Friday. We have put up several notice boards across the temple requesting devotees not to deposit banned notes into the hundis. Still, every time we open the hundis, there are some old notes in it,” said Mohan Yadav, spokesperson of Shirdi Saibaba temple.
 
 The government has allowed the institutions to deposit old notes till March 31 with specific branches of the Reserve Bank of India. The temple has its own system to deposit these notes with RBI, Mumbai till March 31. Interestingly, the government has issued an ordinance making possession of more than 10 scrapped notes a punishable offence. 
 
 Temple trustees are worried that the flow may continue after the March 31 deadline owing to the huge rush during festivals. Shirdi temple is going to celebrate ‘Ram Navami’ festival, a week-long celebration from April 2. More than 4 lakh devotees from across the country are expected to be in Shirdi for this event. 
 
 “As per rules, old demonetized notes are accepted only at RBI counters in Mumbai, New Delhi, Chennai, Kolkata, and Nagpur till March 31. When our representatives visited RBI at Mumbai, the officials initially refused to accept the old notes saying that the service is limited to the NRIs only. However, the issue was later resolved and the trust was allowed to deposit the old notes,” said Lalita Shinde, trustee of Trimbakeshwar temple. 
 
 At Trimbakeshwar, the hundis are opened on every Tuesday in presence of trustees, bank officials and representatives of state revenue department. Since December 30, the temple has received demonetized currency worth Rs 35,000. The trustees feel that a huge amount of banned currency may get deposited on or after March 31. 
 
 One of the prominent shrines of Goddess Saptashrungi at Kalwan has begun celebrations of Chaitra Navaratri festival and the trustees here also shared a similar concern. Though in small amounts, the hundis in the Saptashrungi shrine are also receiving banned notes.
 
 “Government has said that those who possess more than 10 old notes of Rs 500 Rs 1,000 will have to pay a penalty. So, people could drop more notes (in hundis) in days to come. We are expecting about 10 lakh visitors in 10 days starting from April 4. We are clueless about what to do if they drop banned notes in donation boxes,” said trustee Raosaheb Shinde. 
 
 He also appealed to the Centre and the RBI to issue some guidelines to tackle the situation after March 31. Trustees at Kalaram Mandir, Kalika Mandir, Someshwar and Navshya Ganpati temple also said that they are receiving old Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 notes in their donation boxes. 
 
 “It’s matter of concern for us because it’s going to be impossible to deposit such notes after March 31. I hope the government and RBI declare some policy for us,” said Pandurang Bodke, trustee of Kalaram temple.
 
