What's on your mind?' asked Smita's timeline.She typed, “I want to eat   food in Kolkata...Looking for recommendations“.

 Hours passed as she waited for a helpful reply . Smita was left quite surprised at the silence as she had always boasted that Kolkata was the gastronomical capital of the country , serving almost all kinds of cuisines at more than one place.
 
 Well, there was a time when the Parsi community was quite strong in the city and a number of cafes and eateries used to run successfully . But now that the community is on the brink of extinction with less than 400 people left in the city, expecting Parsi food to be available easily is nothing short of a luxury.
 
 In our attempt to dig deeper into Parsi cuisine, we met two amazing couples -the Mancherjis and the Hansotias -both dedicated to feeding the city's Parsi food lovers.
 
 THE HANSOTIAS AT PARSI DHARAMSHALA
 
 Dara and Meher Hansotia's love affair with Kolkata began three and a half years ago.The couple, originally from Ahmedabad, set off for the City of Joy as the Parsi Dharamshala in Kolkata needed a catering department head and manager for the `Parsis-only' guest house.
 
 So, who does the cooking for the dharamshala? In answer, Meher winked and said, “Here, the masterchef is Dara!“ While for Meher it is a fun challenge taking care of managerial tasks, for Dara it was nothing but a dream come true to be in charge of the kitchen. “I have always loved cooking. At home also, when both of us were working elsewhere (I was a government servant and Meher used to teach in a school), I would often take initiative and cook. My relatives, friends and family love to eat the food prepared by me,“ said Dara.
 
 As they settled in Kolkata, their catering service flourished so well that there would be at least five or six phone calls daily pleading for Parsi fare.“The only problem is that on the internet, the information sites have not mentioned that ours is a service that serves you food only on prior orders. So, we have to sadly refuse instant orders. But, I make sure I call them back and reassure them that they can come and join us for lunch or dinner the next day itself,“ said Meher.
 
 When Dara was asked how he manages everything alone, he replied: “When you love doing something whole-heartedly , hard work leaves you with a smile of satisfaction. I wake up at 5 am and finish shopping by 8 am and the food is ready before noon. We also have two kitchen hands helping us out.“
 
 “Bengalis are open to experimentation and I ne ver thought that I will get so many guests. We have also served several vege tarians during our stint in  ,“ said Dara.
 
 The couple, in their 60s, is still exploring a new city hand-in-hand. When we asked them to share their thoughts on carrying their community culture fo rward here in Kolkata, Dara said, “It's a pleasure. We logged really hard to reach this place. Also, in our youth, we never got much time for each other, but here, we can devote time to our relationship.“ time to our relationship.“
 
 “Yes, absolutely! Though we were always in love, Kolkata made us fall in love with each other again and in a different way ,“ Meher added, as she held Dara's hand and they started humming, `Tum bin jaun kahan....'
 
 THE MANCHERJI'S
 
 Manchi and Supriya Mancherji estab lished their little slice of heaven on   a decade ago. Supriya, a Bangladeshi by origin, was introduced to Manchi, a Parsi man who was on the lookout for a Parsi bride. “Maybe it was destined that a little bit of   and a little bit of Iran will find a niche in India,“ said Supriya. She added that her mother-in-law trained her thoroughly in cooking Parsi cuisine. “From each and every masala to their particular quantity in a recipe, she taught me how to blend love and warmth into food. I've carried this forward for quite a while and after opening this restaurant and catering business, trained two of my managers with an equal amount of dedication. After all, it is a legacy...we can't afford to devalue it, right?“ said Supriya.
 
 Initially, the Mancherjis used to serve only Parsi food -from chicken dhansak to akoori, patrenu machchi to laganu custard. “In the beginning, we would serve only Parsi cuisine. But with the number of Parsis decreasing in the city , the demand for Parsi dishes started falling. So, for the last couple of years we've been serving Bengali lunch to office-goers in this area. We also take party orders in bulk.One of the biggest orders came from the German consulate recently . We also cater to various Parsi families during their family functions,“ Manchi told us.
 
 This Parsi couple has customers and foodies coming to them from all corners of the city. “On getting advance orders above `1,000, we would cook saali mutton or farcha, but on a regular basis, the dhansak meal and akoori with batata are mostly in demand,“ added Supriya.
 
 According to the Mancherjis, since most authentic Parsi masalas remain unavailable in the city , they have to get them from elsewhere in the country .“All the Parsi masalas are brought from Mumbai or Pune. You won't get to buy dhansak or sambhar machchi masala in Kolkata,“ said Manchi.
 
 Be it the effect of the falling Parsi population or the low demand of the cuisine among Kolkatans, Supriya said she would never want her and Manchi's daughter, Christine, to get into this business. “Catering is a very stressful job. I don't want my daughter to get into this. I know what kind of problems I have to face every day. So, I'd always want Christine to do something that has nothing to do with the catering or restaurant business,“ she added.
 
 
