BHOPAL: Over 3,186 families are literally living on edge in flats of 64 blocks at Vajpayee Nagar, Idgah Hills. Barely a year after moving into flats, constructed for homeless, residents in the area dread tragedy. In many flats, plaster from roof and terrace peeled off. There are big holes on roof, cracks in wall baring rods, things they feel, do not augur well. 

 The flats, constructed by   Municipal Corporation ( ), were allotted to homeless under the   (JNNURM) in 2016. Residents allege the scheme appears to trip on basic objective of providing safe housing to urban poor. Water is supplied once in six days due to which they are forced to go to other colonies to get water. Repeated requests were made to repair damaged and dilapidated buildings, but to no avail, they allege. 
 
 Rajkumari Gajbiye, a resident of block E2, pointing towards damaged ceiling said, “We are living here for six months. In these six months, we spent around Rs 20,000 on whitewash and welding work.”
 
 “Whether inside a flat or in veranda, portions of ceiling are coming off. Brick can be seen. You can imagine quality of work”
 
 Kumar Bansal, another resident, said “The water supply in area is erratic. Sometimes we get supply once in two days. There were times, when the supply was stopped for six days. Last week, there was no supply for six days. As a result, we had to go to other colonies in Idgah Hills to fetch drinking water and use ground water for domestic use.”
 
 Irregular water supply is not only the problem. Water motors installed in buildings need repair work. Motors are unable to pump water to second and third floor of the building. Residents are forced to walk downstairs to get water,” he said.
 
 Ayush Dongre, who lives in B-3, said, “There are engineers and assistants for maintenance of building. But all that is on paper. In reality, none of BMC official ever visited the building in past one year to check real situation. Even doors are in bad shape,” he said.
 
 Meena Kumari, who lives on fourth floor, can actually see sunlight through a hole in ceiling. She said, “The condition is bad and if BMC doesn’t take action, flats will face problem of major water seepage during rains.”
 
 When TOI contacted BMC civil engineer DK Sharma, the in-charge for Vajpayee Nagar, said “I have not received any such complaint. I visit buildings every week. I haven’t seen any such issue regarding ceilings or walls. If there is a problem, I will ask engineers to look into the matter and fix the problem.” 
 
