AURANGABAD: Nationalist Congress Partys (NCP) sitting MLC Vikram Kale,   candidate Govind Kale, BJP supported Satish Patki and Ajmal Khan of Marathwada Shikshan Lokshahi Aghadi have filed their nomination papers for the teachers constituency election poll on Tuesday taking the total number of applicants to 24. 

 The district authorities have received 47 applications from these 24 candidates. 
 
 The last day for filing the nominations was Tuesday, while scrutiny of papers will be done on Wednesday. The candidate can withdraw their names till Friday. The polling for the teachers’ constituency will take place on February 3 between 8am and 4pm and the counting will take place on February 6. The election process will conclude on February 9.
 
 In a show of strength, sitting MLC Vikram Kale took out a rally in the afternoon and filed his nomination along with his supporters and party workers who arrived in the city from various districts in the region. 
 
 Satish Patki also visited the district collectorate along with his supporters. A large number of BJP workers, teachers, professors and people associated with various leading educational institutes accompanied Patki on the occasion. The ruling party in the centre also conducted a rally from Kranti Chowk to the district collectorate. 
 
 Ajmal Khan of Marathwada Shikshan Lokshahi Aghadi (TDF) also filed nomination papers on Tuesday. Khan is raising voice against various issues being faced by the  . 
 
 While filing the nomination form, Bhalchandra Yedve of   said he is contesting as there are no leaders left who could prominently highlight the numerous issues faced by the teacher community. “People from other fields have been dominating the sector and thus the real issues have taken a back seat,” he said. 
 
 A total of 55,077 voters from eight districts of Marathwada will cast their franchise. The authorities will set up   across the region.
 
 Vikram Kale has won the polls for Marthwada seat of the teachers’ constituency for the past two terms. Prior to Kale, his father Vasant Kale, had occupied the seat. 
 
