CHENNAI: The failure of the monsoon in the state this year has ushered in the dry season early, forcing forest managers to start preparations to prevent the devastating fires common during the time.

 In a normal monsoon year, the February-May period is when the slightest spark is enough to trigger a blaze that spreads rapidly, laying waste large swathes of precious forest area. To prevent such occurrences, wildlife department officials take up cutting of fire lanes by the third week of January and complete it in a fortnight.
 
 This year, a senior official told TOI, the drought has preempted the exercise. Officials from Chennai completed a tour of the various forest areas in the state in November and on December 20 issued a circular to all wardens and district   to start cutting fire lanes from January. Last year, a similar circular was sent only in March.
 
 They were told that clearing of lanes, along which controlled fires are set off, should be undertaken in vulnerable areas and roads used by tribal forest dwellers in the interior areas and wherever fuel load accumulation is reported. Patrolling along roads has to be increased to minimise fire incidents and fire prevention awareness meetings held regularly. 
 
 Such meetings, the circular instructed district forest officers, should comprise members of the village forest council and joint forest committee. They should be taught the importance of preventingcontrolling fire incidents, it said.
 
 Fire watchers and daily wage earners can be engaged for the entire season and should be told to the cruise the fire-prone areas looking for potential fire-triggering material. The forest department's foot soldiers -guards, watchers and foresters from other wings -should be specifically placed at the disposal of the territorial division officer during the season.
 
 Each forest division should form a 20-member firefighting squad that can be mobilized at short notice to prevent and control fire. A crisis management group comprising officials of the rank of district forest officerswildlife wardens will have to monitor fire occurrences and coordinate the various preventive measures, the circular said.
 
 The communication network should be strengthened and used effectively for quick flow of information, movement of men and material to the affected site, the circular said. The information technology (IT) wing of the forest department, which gets real time data on forest fires in the state from images taken by the numerous satellites in the sky , sends out regular alerts to the forest department officials in the district concerned to control the blaze, said an official.
 
