PATNA: Taking strong exception to the reported violation of its executive orders and decisions regarding admission of students,   (PU) has warned the Patna Women’s College ( ) authorities that the students admitted by the college in an “illegal” manner may not be allowed to take   examinations.
 
  The PU has also cautioned the students not to seek admission to the various undergraduate courses in PWC as their admission being made by the college in contravention of the university orders would not be considered as genuine by PU.
  
  When contacted, PU vice-chancellor Sudhir Kumar Srivastava said governor-cum-chancellor Ram Nath Kovind has been apprised of the reported insubordination of PWC principal. The VC has also sought the chancellor’s advice in the matter.
  
  The VC had called the PWC principal on Saturday for discussion, but she did not turn up. She had just SMSed the VC expressing her inability to come to his office. The VC then talked to the principal on phone and tried to convince her to go with the PU decision and participate in the single window system for online submission of admission forms for undergraduate courses as well as the common entrance test to be conducted by PU. But the principal reportedly did not agree to the VC’s request.
  
  In the second week of February, following a meeting of the principals of all colleges, including that of PWC, the PU authorities had finalized an academic calendar, giving specific details of the online sale of application forms, last date of submission of forms, dates of entrance test for various courses and commencement of classes. But, ignoring completely the common dates for all colleges, PWC recently announced its own schedule and invited applications for admission to various courses, both under conventional and vocational modes.
  
  PU, however, on March 7 and 29, asked PWC to desist from its independent plan of admission and also save the university from unnecessary harassment. But PWC did not pay any heed to the PU advice and stuck to its own programme. It has already started selling admission forms from its college counters, even as the online sale of forms for all the PU colleges is scheduled to commence on Monday.
  
  PU academics feel even though PWC, a constituent unit of PU, is yet to be accorded the coveted ‘autonomous’ tag by the   or upgraded as a full-fledged women’s university by the state government (announced by chief minister   on several occasions in the past), it has already started behaving like an autonomous institution, caring little for the PU’s commands.
