AMRITSAR: Saturday left hundreds of tourists disappointed when they found that the historical Gobindgarh fort in Amritsar was closed for a private function. The management of the fort, being run on public-private partnership (PPP) mode, had put up a board in front of the gate reading “venue booked for the day”. 

 Interestingly, director of Punjab department of tourism and cultural heritage Navjot Pal   had no information about this. It was only when TOI approached him that he came to know about it and gave directions to open it. When questioned about the private function, the tourism department director said, “It can’t be closed for public.” He said the fort was a heritage site and couldn’t be closed. 
 
 An infuriated Mumbai residen,t Neelima, who was on visit to Amritsar with her family said that, “How can they close a historical site for public.” She said a visit to the fort was a must-do in their itinerary but they never knew that a heritage site could be closed for public only for making some money. 
 
 Another visitor Amar Singh said that he had come from Bhikhiwind, along with his wife and children, to visit the fort but unfortunately it was closed. “This is no way to make money from a public property, this is a heritage sit and not a banquet hall,” he quipped.
 
 State convener of the Indian National Trust for Art and Culture (INTACH)   said, “Fort Gobindgarh is a heritage site and can’t be used as a hotel. We will want the chief minster to look into the matter.”
 
 Handed over to the state government by former Prime Minister   in 2006, the fort was dedicated to public post completion of the first phase of renovation by former deputy chief minister   on December 12, 2016.
 
 Built in 1760, Gobindgarh fort stands witness to 256 years of history and is spread over 44 acres. It was earlier known as Bhangian da Qila and later became popular as Gujjar Singh Bhangi da Qila, before it was rebuilt by Maharaja Ranjit Singh. The fort has a ‘Phansi Ghar,’ ‘Hawa Mahal,’ ‘Tosha Khana’ and ‘Darbar Hall,’ besides large godowns. The fort also served as home to the infamous  , perpetrator of the   massacre in April 1919. 
 
 
