NEW DELHI: Road fatalities have reduced during the first quarter of this calendar year in comparison to January-March period in 2016. Both fatalities and crashes have decreased by at least 7%, according to the data shared by state government with the   committee on road safety. Maximum reduction, in numbers, has been recorded in Karnataka, followed by Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Maharashtra and  .

 The details accessed by TOI also shows that number of injuries have also reduced by 8.06%. “We have submitted the data to the Supreme Court in our 11th report. We have sought the court issue directions to the Centre and states to take time-bound actions so that number of deaths and injuries reduce. We want the number of road deaths to come down drastically since everyone of us is vulnerable on the road,” the panel chairperson Justice K S Radhakrishnan told TOI.
 
 The data submitted to the apex court show that barring 11 states including Haryana,  ,  ,   and Goa, the number of people killed in road crashes has fallen. The maximum increase in road deaths was reported from Manipur where 48 people died between January and March this year in comparison to 26 deaths during the same period in 2016.
 
 “The positive trends from most of the major states is a good sign. But we have to sustain this. There has been remarkable change in the approach of state governments towards the issues relating to road safety and each one of them is implementing the panel’s directions,” Justice Radhakrishnan said.
 
 Till now two wings of central government - Transport Research Wing and National Crime Records Bureau - have been coming out with annual data on road accidents. The data of 2016 has not yet been published. “Now states are providing quarterly data to the SC-appointed committee and that’s a good signal. Updated information will help us focus on where we need to work more and which all states need to pull up their socks,” said K K Kapila of International Road Federation.
 
 Road safety expert Rohit Baluja said countries like United States, Sweden, United Kingdom have the system for compilation of latest data. “But their data is based on scientific study and analysis. We need to do that, else it will be like garbage in garbage out,” he added.
 
 
