PUNE: The paper-and-pen model of student feedback at the   and its   may soon pave way for online format.

 The student feedback is meant for quality audit purposes in departments and affiliated colleges of the university. However, the students are often end up giving only positive reviews to avoid problems with their teaching staff, which defeats the sole purpose of the entire exercise, educationists said.
 
 New vice-chancellor of the university N R Karmalkar, who once headed the Internal Quality Assurance Cell (IQAC) of the university, also agreed to the transparency issues with the pen-and-paper model.
 
 “I know that there is some problem with the way student feedback exercise is carried out presently. The students are handed out the forms, which they have to fill in the presence of their teachers,” Karmalkar said, adding that if there is a problem with any department, the students should be able to give their feedback without any fear.
 
 “For this to happen, we had discussed in the IQAC of the university how to revamp the entire system. If we can get an online format for this purpose, the entire exercise will be more efficient since students’ identity and their feedback will remain confidential,” the VC said.
 
 While confessing that the plan is presently only on paper, Karmalkar said there the administration hopes to rope in the technology and electronics department of the university to see if a software can be developed keeping in mind the confidentiality of the students.
 
 Rajendra Zunjarrao, principal of Modern College of Arts Science and Commerce in Shivajinagar, said, “Till two years ago, we had only manual feedback. But since 2015-16, we started the online system where the students can choose not to reveal their identity,” he said.
 
 Zunjarrao said the online format also saves paper. “Online is any day better than paper-and-pen method. The feedback is supposed to be given by five stakeholders, including parents, students, alumni, staff and employer. The online format also comes handy in case when any of the stakeholders is settled abroad,” he said, adding that a good   is also must for National Assessment and Accreditation Council ( ) accreditation.
 
 
