Whether it's for freedom, adventure, confidence, independence, or community, sometimes it's imperative to take the risk, follow your heart and choose a profession you're passionate about. Rajshree Rajendra Deshmukh, an electrical engineer from Pune, has done just that. She is on a mission to break stereotypes and unconscious biases about the role of women that are still firmly held in society. 

 Rajshree is currently working as a driver with  . Not due to her circumstances or out of desperation, but out of choice. The 26 year old is determined to   that women can't drive. 
 
 Rajshree, an electrical engineer with an M. Tech degree, was working as a lecturer at Bajaj college, Nagpur for three years. She quit her job and started a business of providing services for accommodation. She says, "Driving was always a passion and I had learnt it when I was in the second year of engineering. I had brought a car from my business of providing accommodation services in India and abroad and then thought of taking up my hobby as my profession."
 
 Today, she earns Rs. 61,000 monthly which is almost double the money she earned as a professor/ teacher. Encouraging the youth to take up driving, she mentions, "I have seen people do a job in the day and drive in the night for three-four hours. Especially if those three to four hours are in the evening it is better as there are more trips and demand for cabs. I would encourage girls to take up driving part-time and earn more money. I couldn't save when I was doing a job, so this could be one way to earn more money."
 
 Ask her if it was difficult to convince her parents and she says, "My parents are cool about it. I had completed my studies and achieved the degrees, which any parent would expect from their children. Also, I had followed the traditional route and secured a respected job for myself. And now I am driving and they have accepted my decision. My parents and I believe that knowledge never goes waste and in every field one gets to learn. They have always been supportive of letting me follow my dreams and they didn't feel any less of me when I decided to take up driving."
 
 Rajshree says not only women, but even her male passengers are happy to see her driving. "Men drivers stare at me when they see me driving, most of the times wondering which company has started hiring female drivers. They have an exclamation mark on their face," she laughs. 
 
 She adds, "Even at petrol pumps when I go for filling diesel, the workers and employees there say they are proud to see a woman in the driver's seat of a yellow number plate vehicle."
 
 But ask her what irritates her the most, and it isn't the traffic or the stares, it's the notion that women can't drive well."I wish to stop jokes and negative remarks made on female drivers. Kabhi raste pe break jyada zoor se mar diya kisine, toh sab kehte hai chalane wali ladki hee hogi, yeh jo comment atta hain, woh pareshan kar deta hain. Buss use badalke dekhana hain duniya ko. My aim is to inspire women and I will happily do everything I can to motivate women," she signs off.
 
  with her car
 
