NAGPUR: The introduction of the GST on medicines is posing a big problem in the issue of their supply for the various Government Medical Colleges (GMCs) including the two city colleges.

 The rate contract (RC) of all the medical colleges in the state was over about two months back and hence the suppliers have stopped supplying medicines on the old prices. The new RCs are not being made as the state has changed its purchase procedure.
 
 The issue has affected the   ( ) as much as the   (IGGMC) and other colleges in Vidarbha at Chandrapur, Akola, Yavatmal and Gondia. 
 
 There is shortage of all major essential and life-saving drugs like the saline, cardiac medicines, anti-rabies vaccine, anti-venom for snake bites and 30-35 vaccinations which are consumed on regular basis.
 
 Sources at the GMCH told TOI that the suppliers have stopped delivering medicines as the RC is over and the directorate of medical education and research (DMER) has not clarified its stand about the   which is creating problem for the patients. The problem in GMCH is more than IGGMC as IGGMC still has about 58% stock of major drugs left. IGGMC has also cleared pending bills of Rs27 lakh which paved way for the suppliers to start fresh supply. But here too there is no clarity on the issue of GST.
 
 “The government may not admit it but the truth remains that there is shortage of basic vaccines, life saving drugs and other essential drugs,” said a pharmacologist from the GMCH. Similar statements were made by representatives from few other colleges in the region.
 
 The DMER director Dr Pravin Shingare however claims that the situation is still in control and there is not much short supply. He told TOI that otherwise also the state government has completely changed its purchase policy from August 15 this year. Now, the DMER will have no power to buy the medicines as was the practice from last few years. The entire process will now be conducted by the Haffkins Corporation for the entire state. The purchase order will now be prepared by the Haffkins Corporation and accordingly the supplier will be asked to supply the medicines to a particular medical college.
 
 “We are planning to extend the RC for time being for the companies which have been regularly supplying the medicines over a long period of time. This will handle the problem temporarily,” said a DMER official. 
 
