When UK’s finest aerobatic team is at the  , you can count on having a thrilling time watching it perform amazing mid-air formations and death-defying stunts. After all, they have performed over 2,000 shows in 12 countries since 1998. Amid the ooh-and-aahs from the public, it’s not hard to notice that behind all those   lie many hours of practice, attention to detail, a choice selection of pilots, and more. Bangalore Times met with the founder and lead pilot of Team  , Jez Hopkinson, to find out more about what they do and how they do it…

  
  
 
 
 
 That’s simple — it’s our passion for flying. When you see us do the same stunts morning and evening over the course of four days, or consider the fact that we’ve been doing it for close to 17 years, it may look like it’s a drudgery and very monotonous. But picture this — when you are flying in close formation or seeing a plane coming dead straight at you at closing speeds of over 750 kmph, there’s no time to get bored. Getting permission in various countries, or assembling and dismantling the plane are dull things. The only reason we’re still doing this is for the joy of flying.
 
 
 
 We came as an eight member team, with five pilots and three crew members. Apart from me, the other pilots are Willy Hackett, Marc Vanhove, David Stobie and David Boardman. While we are performing the stunts, all of us are very professional, and since most of us have military background, we have a very strong ethos for safety and precaution. We also trust each other blindly, there’s no other way to go about this when you’re flying at such speed and at such close distance. We don’t just practice stunt routines, but also what to do in cases of emergencies, like when a plane becomes unserviceable or catches a fire. But once we’re off the plane, the banter is unimaginable especially if you’ve messed up the formation or done something silly when you’re up there.
 
 
 
 No, it hasn’t. We’ve had a number of additions and deletions to our team. We usually fly as a formation of six, but for this show, they wanted only four. We plan to increase to a nine-aircraft team from 2018. We get over 200 applications a year, all of them well qualified. We invite a few of them to fly with us, and unless every existing teammate is absolutely OK with having them onboard, we don’t take them in.
 
 
 
 We have a combination of single-seater   and twin-seater   as part of our fleet. These Russian-built planes, which we have modified thoroughly, are ideal for performing stunts because of their maneuverability. For performing in Bengaluru, we had to make a few modifications and drop a few maneuvers, because it’s warmer here and the air is thinner. We also fill up our smoke generators with special eco-friendly oil, so that we don’t pollute the environment of the places that we go to.
 
 
 
 Yes. We arrived here on February 4. Interestingly, when we arrived here at the airport, we had no clue about demonetization and carried old rupee notes. No one would take it, exchange it or transport us to our hotel in Ulsoor. Luckily, one gentleman gave us some money, booked a cab for us and even gave money for the toll. That was such a wonderful gesture. If this was Heathrow, we would’ve been stuck for a very long time. This is precisely why I love coming to India — the people here are so warm and loving.
 
 
 
 After the aero show, the team is heading to China for the World Formation Aerobatic Championships 2017, where they will compete with 11 other teams from countries such as USA, UK, South Africa, 
 Australia and China.
 
