CHENNAI: Reshma Datta, 37, was a high-performing individual and a doting mother, whom nobody would guess was suffering from extreme depression, suicidal thoughts and guilt from hitting her newborn. Despite working for a largely-supportive employer, help was not possible in this case, as she herself was unaware that she was suffering from postpartum depression, a type of clinical depression that affects parents right after child birth. Mental health issues like postpartum, bipolar disorder, schizophrenia, phobias, body image issues like bulimia, anorexia are on the increase at the workplace and pyschologists say today's offices are not yet equipped to identify the symptoms. Companies like Coca-Cola, Titan, Mondelez and Aspire Systems have taken strides to help troubled employees by offering complete anonymity and direct access to psychiatrists. “I counsel several senior professionals at large corporates who are suffering from bipolar disorder. They may not have come out in the open at their offices, however, because of the stigma associated,” said Anna Chandy, chairperson, The Live Love Laugh Foundation. At Mondelez, new parents are handheld in the pre and post-natal stage. “New mothers, including spouses of male colleagues, can avail tele-health consultations in different phases of pregnancy, monthly check in calls from doctors, information bulletins which helps in increasing awareness of health changes of the mother and the new born baby. We conduct workshops and sessions for new parents to support them in being able cope with new responsibilities and new roles,” said R Mahalakshmi, director – human resources, Mondelez India. “Further, we have voluntary child care facilities and tie-ups in place to ensure both the mother and child’s well-being and make this period of their life easier. Even male colleagues can avail of our day care tie-ups and all other benefits for their spouses. Additionally, our ‘Wellness Program’ focuses on physical, mental and financial wellness by enabling health care benefits that aim to support new parents. Such employee-care initiatives help in strengthening the engagement with employees during their time away from work,” said Mahalakshmi. Employee well-being has come to the forefront with Assocham reporting that as much as 45-50% of corporate employees suffer from depression in a study conducted over 8 years across 150 companies in all major metros in India. "Nearly 38.5% of corporate employees sleep less than 6 hours in a day due to high stressed levels that arise out of tough targets set for themselves by employers and cause diseases like depression, hypertension, sugar etc," said Assocham in its report. With more than 23% of employees in the sample obese, body image issues are also on the rise. "Many youngsters are having to combat obesity, anorexia. There is very little awareness on these issues and any addictions - be it food or otherwise - gets brushed under the carpet. Corporates and senior managers can help if they see teammates or colleagues exhibiting sudden changes in behaviour, food habits, poor hygiene, disorientation, anti-social behaviour and absenteeism," said Lynette Nazareth, program director, Chestnut Global Partners India, which advises corporates like Caterpillar, ConocoPhilips, Citigroup, Abbott Laboratories, on their employee assistance programmes. Chennai-based Aspire Systems, said that through its initiative it has been able to help as many as 98 employees since August 2014. "On average, employees take between 2-6 sessions with the counsellor, which could extend if they need more time. We've seen people seeking help for self improvement, sustaining work life balance, their physical appearance, financial pressure and issues with spouses and in-laws. We've even seen cases where employees have anxiety attacks fearing marriage," said Dinesh Kumar T K, director HR, Aspire Systems.  Complete anonymity is another draw for staffers as they get quality, free counselling. At Coca-Cola India, employees have access to a global helpline and offline support for de-addiction from nicotine, alcohol or food. Titan and Aspire also have a system, where confidentiality of the person seeking assistance is maintained. Invoices for the sessions are raised by the counsellor with minimal details such as time spent to protect their identity. "We have regular review meetings with the counsellor to understand if we could help any of our people. Identities get revealed only if they have a problem in the workplace," added Kumar of Aspire Systems. Mental health experts, who advice corporates, say there are inherent challenges while helping employees. For instance, an employee suffering from postpartum depression would stand to better benefit from counselling, when they take joint sessions along with their spouse. "Also, in a country like India, we look to family for support first. Corporates need to take that extra step to encourage employees to come out. It should not be another 'tick in the box' program," added Nazareth. Ends 