LUCKNOW: Amidst slogans demanding rigorous search for  , the missing MSc Biotechnology student of  , thousands of students and activists from across the country took part in a   here on Sunday afternoon. As the main market area of Hazratganj echoed with the chants of ‘Justice to Najeeb’ and ‘Bring back Najeeb’, mother of the student missing for four months Fatima   led the march covering roughly a distance of 1.8km between Parivartan Chowk and Gandhi statue. 

 Not only on the road, the protest left a strong mark on social media too with hundreds of students streaming it live and posting photographs to share the march online. 
 
 A native of Badaun, Uttar Pradesh, the mother demanded Najeeb’s issue be raised in Parliament by all parties, specially the BJP whose student wing, the ABVP has been accused in the case, ever since Najeeb went missing from   campus on October 15, 2016 after an assault with its members. 
 
 “My son was tortured no end, for no fault. He kept telling his culprits that he only wanted to be with me but it has been four months of continuous strife and of meeting several politicians and I have no clue of my son. The culprits bring in high profile lawyers for the case and have refused outright to take the lie-detector test. What are they afraid of if they are pleading innocence,” she said on Sunday, crying “Where is my son?” 
 
 Nafees and her younger son Mujeeb were also joined in protest by students from Nadwa, Islamia college and other madrasas in Lucknow and Delhi. 
 
 Once the marching party reached their destination, the student leaders presented flowers to the policemen on duty. “We are not a symbol of hate or the ones who want divide, instead we come with a message of peace. This is to demand there should be no other Najeeb and no other Rohith in the country,” explained Mohit Pandey, JNU Students’ Union president. 
 
 Addressing the gathered protesters, Pandey said, “The BJP-led central government is talking about law and order situation under the UP government but what about its own Delhi police that has failed at multiple levels in Najeeb’s case and have been clueless since 120 days,” he said. “All political parties battling for power in UP need to answer on Najeeb, speak about him in Parliament and make student safety an issue for polls,” said Shehla Rashid, former JNUSU vice-president.
 
 
