BENGALURU: Students of ten schools and ten colleges, along with their teachers, gathered at the   to celebrate their contribution towards   at the micro level.

 The sixth edition of the   Awards recognized their achievements with a certificate for the participants along with a cheque for the school. Since its inception in 2011, Wipro Earthian has engaged with more than 50,000 institutes, 1,25,000 students and 12,000 teachers.
 
 “This year’s theme is biodiversity and water. We have been focusing on water conservation for a while now. The aim of these awards is to generate awareness and change the mindset towards the environment. We don’t want temporary change based on momentary awareness; we want to make an impact. After this award, Wipro starts a three-year engagement with the schools, where teachers attend training programmes; we also offer internships for the students,” said Anurag Behar, chief sustainability officer.
 
 A team of Bengaluru school students also featured among the winners. Five 9th graders from Prakriya Green Wisdom School, near Sarjapur Road, did a project on the difference between the biodiversity they found in their school, compared to that near their homes.
 
 “Our school is all about environment conservation and being sensitive to its degradation. We found that the variety of flora and fauna we found on our school campus was far different from that around our homes. We spoke to vegetable vendors reliant on agriculture and other stakeholders to understand the difference in environmental conditions,” said Kavvya S, team leader.
 
 Kavvya, along with Dhiya, Naren, Vinayak and Charitha, also made a card game and wrote an autobiography of a honge mara (tree) on their campus, on the basis of their observations.
 
 “They created a game where the bird, leaf and tree have to be matched. This was done on the basis of their research. They also observed the process of composting and noted down specific temperature changes and other data,” said Hussain, the team facilitator.
 
 Though most of these youngsters are yet to figure out their career paths, they are sure that environmental conservation will remain crucial for them.
 
 “We know that we want to pursue this topic in some form or the other. We have even tried telling our friends about the importance of conservation efforts, and they always seem to learn something new,” said Charitha and Dhiya.
 
