What is the one thing that collegians are eager to hear from their teachers? ‘Your lectures have been cancelled!’ Now-a-days Nashik students are definitely going to hear this statement time and again. As per the directives of election commission, college professors also have been incorporated in municipal election process. Besides, the professors also have to do their bid for graduate constituency elections. As a result, a lot of professors are letting collegians off the hook by cancelling their respective lectures. Therefore, when the elections are keeping everyone especially political party leader and volunteers busy, college students are having a lot of free time on their hand. 

  “Our lectures are being called off repeatedly. Besides, our days and annual functions are just over so lazy mood is prevailing among students. Yesterday, I went for a lecture and only three of my classmates were present for it,” says  , a commerce student. 
 
  
 
 
  While professional colleges like engineering, medical, pharmacy and architecture have just started their annual fests, most of the degree colleges like BA, Bcom and Bsc are done with their respective events. Therefore, the campuses which were hosting hundreds of students till last week have gone vacant. “For us end of annual fest means official end of educational year. Now only yearend examinations are remaining. A week after annual functions usually sees minimum attendance. And now when the lectures are being called off there is no reason to go to college,” says Abhijeet Patil, an arts student. 
 
  
 
 
  When on the one hand students are enjoying free time, professors, on the other hand, are doing everything in their capacity to ensure students’ studies are not compromised. “Yes, we have been allotted with election duties. Similarly, we have to finish syllabus in time, therefore, we are a little overburdened right now,” says Dr  , a political science professor in  . “Election commission has organised three training sessions for us, out of which two are scheduled on working day. That means our professors won’t be able to conduct lectures. However, we are trying our best to facilitate students,” he further adds. 
 
 
