NASHIK: The food and   of the state government has made it mandatory for residents to submit their Aadhaar card details at their respective   (PDS) shops by June 30 for getting food grains at subsidized rates.

 Those who fail to provide their Aadhaar details with the   will miss on to their supply from the month of July. However, good news for Nashik is that 92% of the ration card holders have already provided their Aadhaar details to the PDS shops.
 
 “Nashik is leading in Aadhaar linking process with more than 92% target already achieved. There are some technical difficulties in linking the remaining ration cards. We want at least one member in family to link his/her Aadhaar card with the family’s ration card. Otherwise, they will miss out on the monthly food grains supply,” said district civil supplies officer Sarita Narke.
 
 State’s principal secretary for civil supply took a review of Nashik district’s PDS situation on Saturday through video conferencing. Narke briefed about the progress of PDS-Aadhaar link process.
 
 “There are some technical difficulties with some cards as the Aadhaar link data has failed to match the data available with our department. Software of PDS department is being updated with additional data to get rid of this problem. After this update, the PDS system will be more transparent as we will link the entire system with Aadhaar information,” Narke said.
 
 The district supply officer has appealed to the ration card holders to submit a copy of their Aadhaar card to their respective PDS shop owner by June 30 to continue the supply of monthly ration.
 
 “Beneficiaries who do not possess the Aadhaar number or are not yet enrolled for Aadhaar, are required to make application for Aadhaar enrolment by June 30 and submit documentary proofs at the PDS Shops,” Narke added.
 
 While the Aadhaar number of one member of family is sufficient to continue the ration supply, the supply department is working on linking every family member’s Aadhaar details with the ration card.
 
 “Attaching the Aadhaar cards of all the members of a family will be better for a transparent system and will be in the interest of the nation,” said Narke.
 
