BENGALURU: Several ministers in the Congress government in Karnataka had received summons from the income tax department after their initials were found in the diary reportedly seized from the residence of   during a raid last year. 

 Karnataka energy minister   told TOI: "I had received a summons from the  . When I deposed before them three months ago, I clearly mentioned that there was no link between me and the diary."
 
 The diary allegedly contains amounts of cash purportedly paid to the Congress high command in New Delhi. The diary allegedly has alphabets which are said to be abbreviations of the names of ministers in the Karnataka government.
 
 Shiva Kumar said the income tax officials asked him about the initials 'DKS' entered in the diary. "I told them very clearly there is no link between the letters DKS in the said diary and me. I also told them I had no transactions with Govindaraju," he said.
 
 Another senior cabinet minister said that he too had deposed before the income tax department in the diary case, and was questioned about the entries in the diary and the amounts against the alphabets that corresponded to his name.
 
  Shiva Kumar said the case of the diary was purely political in nature, and anyone could write alphabets such as RG or SG. "These diary entries are all bogus. These are baseless allegations made to malign the Congress party," he said. 
 
 Like DKS, the alphabets RVD, SB, KJG, MBP, RLR and HCM were all synonymous with sitting Karnataka ministers and hence, they were all asked to appear before the I-T department, Kumar added.
 
 Water resources minister M B Patil said   was trying to create a case out of nothing as the party was running out of issues to raise. "If such is the case, then even Prime Minister Narendra Modi must resign. The Sahara diaries clearly mention 'chief minister of Gujarat'. Will he resign?" said Patil, adding that the initials MBP had nothing to do with him.
 
 Bengaluru development minister   said he did not want to comment on whether the summons were issued or not. "Let the I-T department conduct its investigations. Whatever happens between me and the I-T department, I do not want to comment on it," he said. 
 
 
