KOLKATA: After a string of allegations pouring in against private hospitals, it’s the turn of   to feel the heat, it seems. From keeping a bleeding youngster waiting for 11 hours to forcing the parents of a month-old baby shuttle between hospitals, the city saw it all over the last few days. Here’s a TOI record on the goings-on at government hospitals in Kolkata.

 
 
 
 Arpit Singha, a 17-year-old school student from Bongaon — whose collarbone had fractured and eardrums were bleeding — was allegedly denied admission in four government hospitals and referred from one to another for more than two days without any treatment. He finally got admitted at SSKM on Friday night, that also after waiting for over 11 hours.
 
 Arpit was injured in a bike accident on Tuesday night. He was first taken to a local health centre. From there, he was shifted to Bongaon subdivision hospital, but the hospital was reportedly not adequately equipped to treat Arpit. He was then referred to RG  , from where Arpit was sent to SSKM, only to be turned away again. He was then rushed to Calcutta National Medical College as he started to bleed. Finally, on Friday morning, Arpit was again brought to SSKM Hospital but had to wait for over 11 hours before he was admitted.
 
 
 
 
 The CNMC Hospital at Beniapukur turned in to a battlefield since the wee hours of Saturday with a patient’s relatives alleging negligence and the junior doctors claiming they were slapped and manhandled. The impasse at the Rammohan block third floor, however, did not end with a mere allegation.
 
 According to allegations, the body of the patient, who passed away around 3.05am, was not released till about 12.30pm. It took the top officials of CNMC and the Beniapukur police to come to a compromise. The cops had to detain three family members, who were earlier forcibly confined by the junior doctors who claimed they were involved in rioting, before the body was released.
 
 Papri Chattopadhyay, 74, a resident of Muchipara, was admitted to the CNMC on Friday after complaining of breathlessness. Mousumi Ghosh, her relative, claimed the patient was virtually left untreated with only an oxygen mask. “We did protest and an argument broke out. None of us though raised our hands. When we came back at 6am after making all arrangements for her last ride home, the doctors claimed that some of us had slapped and beat them up. They took three of us hostage and refused to return the body,” she claimed.
 
 The junior doctors said that the family did not register any complaints with them initially. “We told them that they need to wait till 7 am as a minimum of four hours is needed to claim the body. They turned abusive, took some of us by the collar and beat us up. We were virtually left unprotected. We identified three of the rioters and detained them. We did not held up the body,” claimed one of the junior doctors. “We will carry out an investigation into the whole episode,” said CNMC Pitbaran Chakraborty. 
 
 
 
 
 Parents of a one-month-old girl baby Salima Khatun, who is suffering from a heart ailment, had to move from NRS Hospital to SSKM several times after being allegedly refused by NRS Hospital. 
 
 The family, residents of Rampurhat, had arrived in Kolkata around 8pm on Friday and went straight to NRS where they were allegedly told to go to SSKM. When the family asked for a refer forward, the hospital allegedly did not give them any. At SSKM, they were asked for the refer forward paper. They returned to NRS where the hospital authorities allegedly refused to admit the baby. The family had to call up the Lalbazar control room for police assistance to get the baby admitted. 
 
 According to NRS officials, the baby was referred from   for urgent cardiac intervention. The hospital, however, does not have emergency cardiothoracic surgery facility and also that of cardiac surgery on neonates. Currently, the baby is admitted in the SNCU of the hospital. “There seem to have been a communication gap that led to the unfortunate problem. But since we do not have facility to conduct heart surgery on neonates, we are working out with RN Tagore International Institute For Cardiac Sciences,” said Dr Dwaipayan Biswas, deputy Super at NRS.
 
 
