Ranbir, Anushka, headphones and crazy dancing -none of us have to be told that these belong to one of the biggest party hits of last year -The breakup song.Other than the peppy music and star value, the headphones in the song got a lot of our attention too.And guess what, after the song's huge success, silent disco parties have become a rage across the country . And Kolkata , too, is not far behind.CT found out from organisers that such parties are already a hit among city youngsters.

 WHAT IS A SILENT DISCO?
 
 
 The music doesn't play on speakers.Instead, it is transmitted through wireless headphones. Usually , there are five to 10 tracks playing simultaneously on different channels. A list of songs keep scrolling on the TV screen.
 
 The channel number is also mentioned with the song. The rev ellers can simply put on their headphones, choose their favourite track and dance. Just keep your headphones on all the time. “We had a silent disco at our club on Valentine's Day . Our DJ had a list of songs chalked out with him. We also kept announcing which song is playing on which channel,“ said a staff member of The Pour House.
 
 A DISCO WITHOUT THE DECIBELS
 
 As per the information CT received, there have been four silent disco parties at places like The Pour House, Smoke Shack, Spring Club etc, in the last couple of months. According to the organisers, silent disco is also trending at house parties. Navin, who owns an event organising company on Rafi Ahmed Kidwai Road, told us, “The basic idea of a silent disco is to make less noise. In foreign coun tries, it has been happening for a long time now.“
 
 Other than at clubs, a lot of my clients also prefer silent discos for house parties. So there's no disturbance to the neighbors, and a rocking party can still take place at home,“ added Navin.
 
 Aratrika Majumder, a student of food design in Paris who is visiting her family in the city , said that the idea of throwing a silent disco party at their lawns had come from a disco that she visited in Paris. “I was mentioning silent discos to one of my friends when he told me it is happening in Kolkata as well. I was really happy when the party organiser said he can make the arrangements at my lawn. So, I am really excited and hope all the headphones work properly at the party .“
 
 `THANK YOU BOLLYWOOD'
 
 According to party hoppers, the whole credit of making silent discos a trend in Kolkata goes to the  's Ae Dil Hai Mushkil.
 
 Priti Khandelwal, who claims to be a regular at themed parties said, “Movies always have a huge effect on the public... be it a fashion trend or a music trend. Silent discos are very popular in the US and UK. They create a silent disco when they party in the open -on roads or at an auditorium. I attended a silent disco in January for the first time and I am really happy that Bollywood has helped introduce such an amazing trend to our city .“
 
 Abhi J, a tattoo artist and a party lover, pointed out that the theme of the silent disco had come to Indian television even before The breakup song. “I remember it was   who had done a soft drink advertisement where she gave earphones to youngsters and they were dancing on the street. I think that was the first time when the Indian masses were introduced to this idea.But it could not make that big a mark.   had bigger stars and a full song to establish the idea. In Mumbai and Goa, there have been a number of silent discos and I am glad that my city has finally picked up the trend.“
 
 
