NAGPUR: A four-year-old girl, student if KG-I, was raped on Thursday during the 30-minute lunch break at her school at  , around 80km away from city, within the limits of Airoli police station of Nagpur rural. As per the   with police, a senior student from the school is likely to be involved. 

 The survivor was playing with her friends at the school when she was approached by the senior student who took her to the  . A senior police official claimed that there was no penetration by use of force but injury marks are present on the private parts of the survivor. It has so far claimed that the unidentified culprit may have used a stone to rub the private parts of the survivor who is injured now.
 
 The matter came to fore after the KG-I student returned home from her school with apparent difficulty in walking. She started sobbing complaining of pain in her private parts. The parents, who are farmers, approached the Airoli police station. The doctors have confirmed with the police about the scratch marks and abrasions along with redness on her private parts. The offence was registered in the early hours of Friday. 
 
 A strong furore was created after the incident with local politicians mounting pressure on the cops to ensure the culprit was nabbed at the earliest. SDPO, Ramtek, Lohit Matani assured the local political group to ensure strict action in the incident to refrain them from triggering a stir. It has also come to fore that similar complaints had surfaced at same village too in the past but nothing is available on records. 
 
 Though the offence was registered at Airoli police station, the probe was handed over to a woman officer of the adjoining Ramtek police station. Special women cell team of Nagpur rural, too, visited the spot and is now extending their assistance in the probe. The probe is being conducted by a woman’s team under supervision of SDPO Matani and SP, Nagpur rural, Shailesh Balkawade. 
 
 Police feel that the survivor has been exploited most likely by someone she knew enough to accompany him to the farm behind the school. “The minor is now under trauma. She has still shared some crucial inputs on the basis of which the probe is being conducted. Already two are under scanner but the survivor is not clearly pointing at anyone,” said an officer.
 
