BENGALURU: Lalbagh Botanical Gardens is getting spruced up for the 205th edition of the Republic Day   to be held from January 20 to 29. Tight security arrangements have been made at the park which will see nearly 4.5 lakh visitors.

 “Apart from installing 25 additional security cameras around the garden, there will be 400 policemen on duty. We are leaving no stone unturned to make the event safe,“ said M A Ravi Kumar, director, Mysore Horticultural Society (MHS).
 
 Special measures include door-frame metal detectors, hand-held metal detectors and nearly 80 security personnel with supervisors. There will also be a police outpost, 45 first aid boxes, five ambulances and a mini-hospital with an ICU and a doctor on call. The medical unit will have medicines for bee, snake and dog bites. There will also be a designated fire brigade unit as well as a bomb disposal squad on call.
 
 Prabhash Chandra Ray, commissioner of the horticulture department, said in the wake of the recent death of a six-year-old boy after a granite structure in park fell on him while posing for photograph, certain areas will be made no-selfie zone.
 
 “We cannot stop people from taking pictures but we will alert them of the danger.We will also cordon off certain treacherous areas and restrict access to avoid any untoward incidents,“ he said.
 
 Nine 9 POS machines and card-swiping machines will be installed at the gates. 
 
 
 
 
 Thirty beehives have been removed from trees in the 240-acre park. There are 10 more hives in relatively less crowded zones. Those trees with hives will be barricaded with a security person to keep watch, officials said.
 
 
 
 
 One ACP, six inspectors, 20 PSIs, 30 ASIs, 315 head constables or police constables, 100 home guards besides the Karnataka Special Reserve police will be on duty every day during the show. Three teams comprising five horticulture officers, one engineer and environmental experts inspected Lalbagh and identified 67 `dangerous' spots or structures, said officials.
 
 The 67 problems were sorted out instantly while 70 `unstable' structures were repaired. Steel railings will also be in place in risky areas.
 
 
