GREATER NOIDA: The owner of the flat, a portion of whose ceiling fell down upon the tenant sleeping in its bedroom has lodged a complaint in Bisrakh police station against the builder of the residential complex in   1.

 Dadri MLA Tejpal Nagar and members of the   ( ) too visited the spot on Monday and the former said that he found that not just the plaster but also the concrete material, had fell from the ceiling suggesting that the material used for the building was substandard.
 
 Police has said they are going to register an FIR in the case.
 
 The owner of the flat and other residents of the area have sought to know from   as to why the builder was issued a completion certificate despite the low quality of the construction material use.
 
 In the complaint, the owner Mohit Mishra has said that he owns the flat in the 1217 flat of A1 tower of Ecovillage 1 society.
 
 “I have given the flat on rent to a friend. Yesterday, when he was sleeping, a three-foot long portion of the ceiling fell down upon the tenant, leading to a close shave. The incident has scared his family too,” reads the complaint. It further says that the builder Supertech has used a substandard material to construct the building which led to the accident and has sought that an FIR be lodged against him.
 
 Tejpal Nagar said that he would raise the issue with the chief minister Yogi Adityanath in the upcoming Vidhan Sabha convention to be held from May 15-20 in Lucknow.
 
 NEFOWA President Annu Khan who accompanied the MLA at the spot said that they have sought a meeting with the managing director Mohit Arora on Tuesday.
 
 “He has agreed to meet us. We will ask him to conduct an internal inquiry too at his level and reconstruct any faulty portions. If he doesn’t do that, he will give a written complaint to the Greater Noida Authority against them,” Khan said.
 
 Bisrakh SHO Vinod Pandey said that an FIR will be lodged in the matter under IPC section 336 (endangering life or personal safety of others) ACEO Janardhan told TOI that we have not received any application from the victim. If they give us a complaint like they have given to the police, we will conduct an inquiry into the matter.
 
 "We have a formed a five-member committee to check the issues in the flats of the four towers in Supertech Ecovillage 1. The meeting with the buyers is yet to be confirmed," Sanjay Joshi, assistant general manager, Supertech, told TOI.
 
