Bhopal:   Mohan Bhagwat’s Betul visit for Virat Hindu Sammelan, on Wednesday, will also include a tribute-paying ceremony at the district jail where the second Sarsanghchalak (chief) Madhav Sadashiv Golwalkar, also known as Guruji, was detailed for five months in 1949. Meanwhile, Congress has objected to Bhagwat’s visit while alleging violation of jail manual.

 Bhagwat will visit barrack number one of Betul district jail where ​RSS ideologue Golwalkar was detained for about five months from February 13 to July 13, 1949 after the organisation was banned following the Mahatma Gandhi’s assassination on January 30, 1948. The jail authorities have also put up an oil painting of Golwalkar on a wall in the cell. The RSS chief is likely to pay tributes to Guruji in the jail.
 
 “Bhagwatji will arrive on the jail premises at around 10.30 am. Guruji was released after the ban on RSS was lifted on July 12, 1949. Before leaving for Nagpur, Golwalkar had said that Betul will be developed as a major centre for Sangh Parivar,” said programme convener Mohan Nagar.
 
 However, Congress is averse to the fact that Bhagwat will be allowed to enter the jail. The party said that BJP was trying to glorify Golwalkar who was in fact a member of a banned organisation in 1949. Incidentally, the BJP-led Shivraj Singh Chouhan government had named Betul jail after Guru Golwalkar in 2007 to mark his birth centenary.
 
 “BJP not only glorified Guruji by naming the Betul jail after him but also declared in 2010 that he was jailed for being a freedom fighter. An article published in the MP government publication of that year reads that Golwalkar was a freedom fighter, which is ‘distortion of history’ to mislead the public,” said K K Mishra, state spokesperson of the Congress.
 
 Mishra also questioned his authority. “Bhagwat is simply a member of RSS. In what capacity he will be visiting the jail and organising a programme. This is a blatant violation of jail manual,” said Mishra, adding that he has written a letter to the jail authorities not to let in any outsider.
 
 When asked, RSS regional publicity in-charge Narendra Jain said​, “It will be better to ask the jail or district administration as regards permission to enter the jail.” Meanwhile, sources in the jail department quoted the Jail ​Manual’s Rule 820 ​which states that jail superintendent can allow any person to enter.​
 
 Meanwhile, as the Sangh Parivar plans a major strategy to address its declining base among the tribal population, the controversy raked up on account of Bhagwat’s jail visit will give more fuel to anti-RSS propaganda in the tribal areas. The event is also significant in view of Guru Golwalkar’s 110th birth anniversary which will be observed on February 19, said sources in the Sangh Parivar.
 
 
