NOIDA/GREATER NOIDA: Many private schools in Noida and   remained open on Friday despite the district administration’s orders to shut down till January 15.

  in Noida’s Sector 16, Vishwa Bharati Public School in Noida’s Sector 28, Modern School in Noida’s Sector 12, Mayoor School in Noida’s Sector 126, Kothari International School in Noida’s Sector 50 and DPS Greater Noida were open for students of the senior classes.
 
 Principals said that closing operations even for the senior classes such as classes X, XI and XII was not possible as most schools were holding pre-boards for classes X and XII while students of classes IX and have their practical exams. They also said that informing transporters to not come in at such a short notice becomes difficult for the management.
 
 While the district administration had cited the “cold wave” as the reason for closing schools for all classes, doctors termed the move “an excessive precaution” by the administration, saying that children in hilly areas, which are much colder, go to school.
 
 Buses ferrying children back home could be seen outside Apeejay School and students said that classes IX, X, XI and XII were open.
 
 “We came to submit our practicals. I think the weather becomes pleasant in the afternoon. Classes up to VIII were closed,” said a Class X student of Apeejay School.
 
 However, Apeejay’s vice-principal Amrita Hajnela told TOI that only some students of Class XII had gone to school to take their pre-board exam.
 
 Rashmi Kakroo, principal, Vishwa Bharati Public School, said the school was open for senior classes as Class XII had a pre-board exam on Friday, which could not have been put off while classes IX and X had their classes for listening and speaking skills.
 
 “I think shutting schools is a bad practice. Had the reason been smog, it was understandable but I don’t think that the cold is so unbearable,” said Jasweer Singh, principal, Kothari International School.
 
 D K Singh, head of department (Paediatrics) at Child Super Specialty Paediatric Hospital & Post Graduate Teaching Institute, Sector 30, said that while children below 10 years of age and elderly people were “vulnerable” to cold, those above 15 are not. “It is a case of excessive precaution by the administration,” he said.
 
 Some schools complained about the order of the district inspector of schools (DIOS) being “unclear”.
 
 Bijender Singh, administrator of Mayoor School, said the school complied with the orders of the district administration. “The order said all secondary schools should be shut. So, we asked students of classes nursery to VIII not to come,” he said.
 
 Chirag Shah, whose daughter studies in nursery in DPS Sector 132, said that while closing classes from nursery to IV was fine, children older than that were hardly affected by the cold wave. “Shutting senior classes was unnecessary,” Shah said.
 
 
