Even a heavy downpour 
  evening couldn't dampen the spirit of Doonites, who dressed up in colourful ethnic clothes to attend a   night organized by The  . The venue was shifted from an open ground to an indoor hall as the rain refused to stop. There was a special performance by the Vibrations Dance Studio, who not only performed at the event but also made everyone dance to Bollywood numbers fused with   beats.

 
 
 Some of the hit tracks, which topped the playlist for the evening, included songs like Tamma Tamma, Cheap Thrills and Despacito fused with traditional garba beats. Avinash, a businessman and a resident from Canal Road, said, "I love dancing to retro tracks. Some of my personal favourites were fusion tracks, which included songs like   fused with EDM and garba beats."
 
 
 Mrinal, a college student from Ballupur, attended a dandiya night for the first time. An excited Mrinal, who got a new dress for the occasion, said, "I did not want to wear a traditional ghagra choli, as I couldn’t have danced for long wearing it, so I picked up a crop top and paired it with dhoti pants."
  Shefali, a college student who lives in Raipur said, "This year, I wanted to wear a fusion dress, which was comfortable and suitable for the rainy season. So, I wore a lehnga-style suit for the evening."
 
 
 Kritika, a teacher and a resident of Chakrata Road, said, "I loved wearing colourful ghagra choli paired with traditional silver jewellery and a pair of jutis for this dandiya night. I have clicked some pretty pictures, which I will be sharing on social media."
 
 
 Rajat, an entrepreneur and resident of  , told us, "The venue was decorated beautifully with colourful lights and dandiyas. Despite the rain we continued dancing. One pays extra bucks to indulge in rain dancing at a water park, but over here we did it for free. Dancing to Bollywood numbers in the rain was such a filmy experience."
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 Jasjot, a college student from Haridwar Road, said, "It was a fun-filled event full of garba and dandiya beats. One of my friends even did some belly dance on garba beats. One of the most enjoyable moments was doing bhangra on garba beats."
 
 
