SASARAM: A case of mistaken identity not only landed a daily wage worker in jail for more than a week, but also subjected him to trial for the last one-and-a-half year, making his life miserable.   It all started on November 12, 2014, after a truck driver, Raju Prasad of Sindhauli village under Dalmianagar police station of the district, surrendered before the court of chief judicial magistrate (CJM) in Sasaram after a man was run over by his vehicle near the district jail. He was released on bail the same day, police said.    “After Raju’s failure to appear in court on the scheduled dates, the court cancelled his bail on November 30, 2015 and issued a non-bailable warrant against him. On December 28, 2015, the Dalmianagar police, while executing the warrant, arrested his namesake Raju Seth of the same village and sent him to jail. The namesake, a daily wage worker, was shocked as there was no case against any of his family members. After eight days, he was released on bail,” said police.    After coming out of jail, he came to know that the real accused of the same village had died on April 14, 2015, in a road accident in Aurangabad. Seth then collected the copy of the FIR, the postmortem report and death certificate of the actual accused and filed a petition in the court, requesting it to discharge him as he had nothing do with the case.    “Taking serious note of the petition, the court asked the Dalmianagar SHO to submit an inquiry report on January 17 this year. On March 16, the court again sought probe report as the SHO had failed to comply with the order. However, till date no report has been submitted and on July 18 last, additional chief judicial magistrate (ACJM) Suchit Kumar Mishra sought a report from Rohtas SP.    “I appear in the court on every date, but there is no one to listen to my problem,” said Seth.    Assistant public prosecutor SC Mandal confirmed that police have been asked to submit a report. “The court had earleir asked Dalmianagar SHO to submit a report. After he failed to comply with the order on July 18 the court has asked Rohtas SP to submit the report. We are waiting for the report,” said Mandal.    SHO of Dalmianagar police station Prakash Lal, however, said he has not received any directive from the court. “If I get an order of the court, I will submit the report,” he added.