Visakhapatnam: The Kancharas or metal smiths of Visakhapatnam, who were once known across the world for their ability to manufacture custom made metal objects, no longer gets business. 

 During the colonial era, the Kancharas thrived and made regular and fancy objects from gun metal, copper, brass and bronze. However, this thriving industry soon went into a recession after the introduction of machine manufactured metal ware in independent India. Within a span of three decades, the metal smiths of Vizag gave up their traditional trade. 
 
 “Vizag was a thriving trade centre and the British, having recognised the skill and abilities of the worksmiths, set up a fort in Visakhapatnam in the late 17th century. The Europeans used them in manufacturing ships, metal ware and ivory-inlaid works. Much of the trade from Vizag was for metal, alloy ware and ivory crafts. This fact was mentioned in the 1907 Vizagapatam District Gazateer,” observed history buff BS Mahesh, adding that zamindars of the region along with the British establishment and the local traders patronised these craftsmen.
 
 However, post estate abolishment and rapid industrialisation in India, many of these Kancharas who had an entire settlement to themselves ( ), were forced to seek new ways to earn a living. “The zamindari and Estate Abolition Act 1948 along with the introduction of land reforms sounded the death knell to these craftsmen as their traditional customer base such as the zamindars, inamdars, and big landowners died out,” said old timer DN Sinha. 
 
 Sinha further added that the post-independence era coincided with a huge boost to modern industry in Visakhapatnam, which eventually resulted in many of the younger generation of Kancharas taking to modern skills more suitable for employment in the heavy industry.
 
 Sinha said earlier, Vizag had several karkhanas (factories) as well. “Many of my family members picked up metal and ivory art objects from Vizag as souvenirs to take to Europe and America.” He, however, pointed out that many of the accomplished smiths and artisans also failed to pass on their skills to the next generation as a result of which the karkhanas shut shop. 
 
 A noted interior designer in Vizag said, “Metal workers and ivory-artisans of that calibre do not exist in Vizag any more. Most of them are either not alive or have left the place for good. Kancharapalem is only a colony in Visakhapatnam today and the metal workers are history.”
 
 Those still continuing with metal work at Kancharapalem are either associated with some manufacturing and heavy industry or are skilled mechanics running garages. “The fact that the industrial estate is right next to this colony is proof of the fact that the legendary skills of these kancharas are still being used, albeit in modern industry.”
 
 
