BHOPAL: A short film by a  ,  , has been receiving raves, as it won an   at a recent film festival in Nepal. 

 The short film, Jaadui Machchi (The Magical Fish), won the Ra-ra Award for the Best Short Film at the first edition of the International Film Festival of Nepal (IFFON) by the All Nepal Cine Workers Association (ANCWA). The film was initially short-listed for screening at another film festival in Nepal in January 2017, but then went on to win the award of USD 300 and a trophy after being acclaimed by the jury and considered for participation in IFFON. A total of six films won awards in different categories, out of which three were international submissions. The award in the best feature film category was bagged by Kalo Pothi (Black Hen) by Min Bham of Nepal while the award for the best documentary film was given to Blank Page by Aina Meredova of Russia.
 
 The 37-minute short film was made by Sushil Kumar and Maheen Mirza of   along with Rachin and Pallav Thudgar who also have ties with the city. The movie was shot in Bhilpura, a small basti located on the banks of the river Narmada in Hoshangabad. All of the cast and much of the crew were from the basti itself. Jaadui Machchi revolves around a young girl, Jyotika who is ecstatic when she is told a story about a magical fish. At the same time, a contractor visits the village with a proposal for the fishermen, promising them wealth and happiness. The situation leads to Jyotika realising that staying true to one’s beliefs is not easy and there comes a time when our convictions are put to test.
 
 The movie was filmed in 2015 and has also received a special mention at the seventh International Documentary and Short Film Festival held at Thiruvanthapuram in 2016. It has been screened in Bring Your Own Film at Puri, 18th International Children’s Film Festival at Hyderabad and at the 10th IAWRT Asian Women’s Film Festival.
 
 Eklavya Collectives is an independent, autonomous, non-funded group of people who seek to combine creative efforts and imagination and collaborate with trained and untrained people to make films that are in accordance with contextual realities and experiences. “We celebrate the spirit of creative independence by producing films that are content wise and aesthetically located in people’s subjective experiences. We are joined by the concern to make cinema more participative and closer to people,” says Maheen Mirza. The group has made two other  , Chanda ke Joote and Salt of the Earth, and is now working on a fiction feature film.
 
 
