Panaji: Disappointed with the fact that the state government paid them only 50% of their salary for the month of February, teachers from government-aided schools have made a representation to the directorate of education (DoE) that the 7th pay scale salaries promised to them have not being implemented since January 2017.

 The teachers from grant-in-aid schools have sought to know why the new scale has not been implemented for them when government employees, including government school teachers, are already receiving these salaries. The disgruntled teachers said that college managements claimed that the government hadn’t provided the necessary funds, therefore they were forced to pay the teachers only 50% of their salaries. 
 
 “The 7th pay commission was applicable for government employees and aided institutions with effect from January 1, 2016. Chief minister Laxmikant Parsekar had promised that government employees and teachers from aided schools will get their salaries under 7th pay from January 1, 2017. Accordingly, government servants and government teachers started getting their salaries under 7th pay from January, this year. But, teachers from aided institutions continue to receive salaries under the 6th pay scale, till date,” the representation stated.
 
 The teachers have asked the directorate of education to expedite the process of approving the pay fixation for teachers from aided institutions under the 7th pay commission scale, so that they get their deserved salaries. 
 
 “The schools have done the pay fixation in the month of December 2016 and sent it for approval. Without the approval of pay fixation, the new 7th pay salaries bill cannot be sent to the education deparment for claiming the salaries. The school sends the salary bill one month in advance. For example, the salary bill for the month of April has to be sent by March 10, 2017. But, with the pay fixation yet to be done, there seems little hope teachers will get paid according to new salary scales from April,” a teacher said.
 
 
