Nagpur: Former corporator Moreshwar alias Mama Dhote’s son Pankaj fired two rounds at a four-wheeler belonging to dreaded goon Sumit Thakur’s close aide Raja Wankhede on Wednesday night. The incident happened when the vehicle was parked in front of Shambhu Canteen at Borgaon Square, under the jurisdiction of Gittikhadan police station. One empty shell was later recovered from the spot.

 Wankhede was not present in the vehicle when Pankaj and his accomplices ransacked the canteen. Sources said there is a monetary dispute between Wankhede and Pankaj, which triggered the incident. Onlookers informed cops that Pankaj swore to kill Sumit while leaving the spot after firing bullet at the vehicle.
 
 Sumit, who has a long crime record, and most of his gang members, including his elder brother, have been charged under the Maharashtra Control of Organized Crime Act (MCOCA). Sumit was released on bail in the MCOCA case a few months back.
 
 Sources said Sumit and Pankaj have been threatening to kill each other over monetary issues since last few days. Pankaj had thrashed one of Sumit’s close aides over recovery of betting money. After that incident, Sumit had allegedly called up Pankaj and threatened to kill him.
 
 Cops said Pankaj was searching for Sumit since some days. He came to know that Sumit’s close aide Raja was present at the canteen. Hence, he reached there and started searching for him. When he couldn’t find Raja, he ransacked the canteen. Pankaj fired two rounds at Raja’s four-wheeler. One round missed the target while the other broke the rear window and was lodged inside the car. During the spot inspection, cops recovered one empty shell on the ground.
 
 After the incident, onlookers said if Raja had been present in the canteen, a gang war would have happened. Cops were recording the statement of the canteen owner till the filing of the report. Zonal DCP Rakesh Ola, DCP (crime) Sambhaji Kadam, and ACP Somnath Waghchoure visited the spot. 
 
 Six police teams have been formed to nab Pankaj.
 
 
