KOLHAPUR: The   ( ) has spent 2.5 times the amount of tax it earned from citizens on civic amenities during 2016-17.

 The KMC’s accounts department data released as part of the budget for the next financial year has compared the income generated through various taxes and expenditure made in the last 18 years.
 
 In the last ten years, income generated by the KMC through taxes has been increased from Rs 74 crore to Rs 149 crore last year. At the same time, the annual expenditure for civic services was also increased from Rs 126 crore to Rs 374 crore. Ten years ago, the expenses were 1.5 times the revenue earned through taxes, which has now gone up to 2.5.
 
 A civic official said that the increase in expenditure   is because of the increased demand for infrastructure in view of the rise in population
 
 A senior KMC official said, “Several projects were launched in the last ten years. These are in the final stages of completion. Over the last few years, the civic body had to spend a huge amount of money from its own coffers to complete the projects. At the same time, revenue sources are tight as the major source of revenue — Octroi was abolished in 2011. After this, the local body tax (LBT) was abolished in 2015. Most expenses are made through state and central grants as we can afford to spend just Rs 40-Rs 60 crore from our resources annually.”
 
 In 2011, the city’s population touched 5.5 lakh and has been steadily growing at 2% each year. 
 
 Apart from this, a floating population of around 1 lakh each day is putting a strain on existing infrastructure. Huge expenses have to be made to tackle issues like solid waste management, road repair work and sanitation.
 
 The KMC’s data shows that the income from the taxes per citizen have been reduced to Rs 2,725 from Rs 2,953 while expenses per person have been increased by around Rs 200. The reason for reduction in the income is because of the scrapping of the LBT and failure to expand the tax base especially that of the property tax. In 2011-12, when LBT was started the KMC generated Rs 3,005 per individual through tax.
 
 “Not only has the abolition of LBT affected the KMC’s revenue, but the opposition to the hike in property tax and water tax has led to a narrowing of chances to raise revenue. If the tax hikes were made on time, we would have been able to spend more on civic services without relying on government grants,” the official said.
 
 The civic administration had tremendous scope to expand the tax base by taxing for new properties and bringing new connections into the water tax net. However, earlier attempts proved futile and the recent steps taken to assess new properties are being criticised for irregularities. Economists are of the opinion that the KMC should increase taxes and also provide quality services to citizens to balance the income and expenditure chart.
 
 Vijay Kakade, a city-based economist said, “Citizens should be ready to pay taxes. The per capita income of people in Kolhapur is good compared to other cities. New initiatives such as financial management at the ward level will help make the fund utilisation process effective. Expenditure on salaries and pensions is bound to increase, but at the same time, professional methods should be adopted to increase the efficiency of the available staff.” 
 
 Citizens have said that they still struggle to get a regular supply of clean water and commute on damaged roads each year.
 
 “There should be efforts from the KMC to increase transparency in the system. They should regularly update people about the financial situation in the civic body. We expect basic issues such as irregular water supply and bad roads be permanently addressed before undertaking any new major projects,”  , a Rajarampuri resident said.
 
