KOLKATA: A day after chief minister   announced a bouquet of projects both for the city and the state, experts are sceptical about the execution within the planned three years. Though no one questioned their feasibility and felt this infrastructural push is much-needed, they think money alone can’t help to carry out the projects. The government will have to consider other factors that could come in the way — land acquisition, environmental issues and the technology used to save space and keep the city moving during the execution period.

 “I believe it is technically feasible. Fifty-seven flyovers came up in Mumbai in a span of two years. Thus, the construction of seven flyovers and some underpasses and overbridges is not impossible. The government will have to delegate the work properly and plan meticulously,” structural engineer and professor of   Gupinath Bhandari, who worked closely with the state government, told TOI.
 
 Though theoretically it seems possible, the officials of implementing agencies including Public Works Department and Kolkata Municipal Corporation are not sure about the time frame. “There are two critical projects. The elevated corridor from E M Bypass to New Town and six flyovers and rail overbridges, that would connect Taratala to Jadavpur PS via Tollygunge Phari and Prince Anwar Shah Road, have major environment and land acquisition issues that need to be sorted. The government will have to pull a lot of strings – political and administrative – if they want to complete all the projects in time,” a senior PWD engineer told TOI.
 
 The proposed elevated corridor from E M Bypass to New Town cuts through East Kolkata Wetlands, where constructions are barred by multiple legislations and court orders.
 
 “The projects would change the city for good. If successful, Kolkata would look like international cities — Hong Kong or Bangkok. But if it is not time bound, the budget would escalate and the entire planning could go haywire,” said a senior town planner working with the KMC. “Moreover, the kind of technology that the government plans to adopt is important. If space-saving modern technology is not used, the city will come to a standstill. Expert supervision is also vital,” another official said.
 
 “The initiative is positive. Kolkata’s road space is less than 14% and the only way to increase it is by setting up flyovers. We need flyovers in the city, keeping in mind the environmental aspects that need to be adhered to for sustainable development,” said strucutural expert Anjan Kumar Dutta.
 
 
