Sanjay Leela Bhansali’s ' ' is in trouble once again. Less than two months after the director was attacked and the sets vandalised in Jaipur, the film's set at the Masai Pathar, located around 35 kms from  , Maharashtra, was set on fire by unknown men on Tuesday night. According to reports, a group of men attacked the newly-erected set with petrol bombs, stones and lathis. They fought with security guards on the set before setting it on fire. 

  MB Tambade, Superintendent of Police, Kolhapur, said, "The group and the motive behind the attack is yet to be identified. The incident took place around 1am, and after we were alerted, I personally visited the place and interacted with Bhansali. However, he was reluctant to lodge a complaint, making any further action difficult."
 
  Inspector Dhanyakumar Godse, from the Panhala Police Station, informed, "The area falls under our jurisdiction and we are investigating the case. The miscreants set fire to the costumes and also damaged vehicles belonging to the crew. Since the area is not inhabited, we can't get information from the locals. Also, there has been no official complaint yet and the makers are contemplating whether to file one or not. We will decide on the further course of action after that."
 
  
   
 
  The 'Padmavati' team was supposed to shoot a huge procession scene on Wednesday and an additional 600 people had been called in for the same, along with heavy drapery, props and horses. A source from the film’s team tells us that costumes worth Rs2 lakh were destroyed in the fire, along with production equipment, and the total loss is in crores. While the team was shooting there earlier in the day, there were hardly any crew members present at the time of the incident. However, according to reports, a horse was injured in the fire.
 
 
  
  Bhansali was assaulted in January on the 'Padmavati' set by   members
 
 
  A driver from the film's crew first spotted the attackers and tried to stop them, but they beat him him up. The driver has suffered severe injuries and has been taken to hospital. After the incident, Vishwas Nangre-Patil, Inspector General of Kolhapur, has promised to provide security to the film’s team. He also informed that the dog squad found the bottles that were used to make petrol bombs. 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  The shoot has been stalled for now but sources say that it will be resumed after a week. In January, the film's set in Jaipur was attacked by members of Rajput Karni Sena and Bhansali was assaulted. The group claimed that the film distorted history and had intimate scenes between   and Allaudin Khilji. After the attack in Jaipur, Bhansali had decided to stop shooting in Rajasthan and opted for Kolhapur instead. After the Kolhapur incident, Lokendra Singh Kalvi, Karni Sena founder, told us, "I will speak to Home Minister Rajnath Singh and would request him to advice Bhansali to not shoot the film. Otherwise, such incidents would keep on happening."
 
 --- With inputs from Divya.Kaushik@timesgroup.com,Mihir.Bhanage@timesgroup.com, Anup.Satphale@timesgroup.com and Anagha.Pathak@timesgroup.com
 
 
 
