
The problem today is that the school examination system has also become a victim of consumerism. In a social milieu that values marks more than the development of personality , it is not `learning' but `scoring' that gets glorified. Besides, when a system relies on elimination rather than selection for higher studies and even for jobs, there automatically is a race for marks. So even if a student gets 94%, his parents are not happy and they want the result verified.
 
 With a steady decline of high er education across the country ,   remains a hope for today's youngsters. The main reason why marks of Class XII board examinations started being inflated was because Delhi University follows a process of elimination rather than selection for admission in undergraduate classes. Inflation of marks became more pronounced after 2008 when some state boards began increasing marks to help their students get an upper hand in the elimination process.
 
 If the design and blueprint of the question papers of the country's 52 school boards -three national, the rest state-based -were flawless, then the performance of the students would show a normal probability curve or, at most, a bellshaped one in graphical representation. In such a situation, 4-5% students would get 90% marks or above. However, in some state boards, 25-30% of the students get 90% or more in some subjects, particularly English. Is this normal?
 And why English? Well because, English is one of the best four subjects considered for admission in undergraduate classes.
 
 Only in this background is the decision of   and some of the state boards not to allow moderation marks a welcome step. But I do not know how this will be implemented and which agency will monitor it. Some state boards have already declared their results and they have allowed moderation.
 
 Moderation is usually done in three stages to minimise discrepancies in the system: first, moderation of question papers; second, moderation of marking schemes; and finally , moderation of the raw score, if necessary . Moderation should exist in some form, but must be full-proof and transparent. Once, the question papers were set by people from universities and colleges and moderation of marking schemes was done by practising schoolteachers.
 
 Moderation is a scientific process and as long as moderation of question paper and moderation of marking scheme are done appropriately, there won't be any need for any moderation of marks in the third stage. And if at all moderation marks have to be awarded, they should only be 3-5 marks, depending on the difficulty level of a particular question paper set. It can never be awarded to students en masse in any subject.
 
 At the root of all efforts to stop the inflation of marks in our ex amination is the issue of raising the awareness, confidence and competence of all stakeholders. If moderation is not implemented in the true spirit by all boards but only by a few, the latter's students are going to suffer in the by cut-throat competition. We have come to believe that the board examination is Aladdin's lamp and if we rub it, we will be able to materialise the genie that will, at our command, fulfill our wishes for the right marks, good college and a bright career. This genie has to be exorcised and it cannot be accomplished by cribbing with a fragmented view of the system.Highlighting unfortunate aberrations thrown up by the system serves no purpose except perhaps to heighten the fear perception and hysteria among young minds.
 
 
 
 
