CHANDIGARH:   chief minister   on Thursday reiterated that any kind of land in Haryana would not be acquired without the consent of farmers and rates prescribed for land to be acquired for development works would be paid to the farmers without any delay.

 Khattar said this, at a function organised to celebrate Deen Bandhu Sir Chhotu Ram Jayanti and Baisakhi Parv in Jind.
 
 He said that four regional centres would be set up under the horticultural university which was coming up in Karnal. Out of these, the regional centre to be set up in Jind would be named after martyr Capt. Pawan Kumar. The process to identify land for this centre would start soon.
 
 Deen Bandhu Sir Chhotu Ram had worked throughout his life for the welfare of labourers and workers. A strong society could be developed by following his principles. Therefore, every person should follow the path shown by Deen Bandhu Sir Chhotu Ram and contribute to the development of the country.
 
 The Chief Minister said since agricultural land was shrinking, the farmers could earn more by getting engaged in agriculture-related business or horticulture. They could earn profit by taking produce to the mandis located in Delhi and Noida where there is huge demand of fruits, flowers and vegetables. About four crore people reside in Delhi and nearby areas, and the farmers of Haryana could cater to their needs, he added.
 
 He said the number of government jobs was limited and it was not possible to provide government job to everyone. A university is being set up for developing and honing the skills of youths through about 800 technical courses.
 
 Besides, the state government has been providing employment to youth under its ‘Saksham’ scheme and so far, about 9,000 capable youths have benefitted from it. With to view to providing employment and self-employment opportunities to the youth, the state government is considering a proposal to expand the provisions of the scheme, he added.
 
 On this occasion, the Chief Minister announced that the Haibatpur Chowk at Safidon Road would be named after Deen Bandhu Sir Chhotu Ram. He also announced a donation of Rs 21 lakh for development of the  , Jind.
 
 Apart from this, he honoured those who had contributed and those who have promised to make contribution for the construction of rooms in Jat Dharamshala. He also inaugurated senior citizen hall constructed on the Jat Dharamshala premises and released a book entitled ‘Bhartiya Prashashan’ authored by Dr. Pawan Arya.
 
 The Union Minister of Steel, Birender Singh, said time had come for the farmers to turn to sectors other than farming to increase their income. Only farming would not be enough. Farmers and their children would have to enter into different sectors otherwise they would lag behind. 
 
 Every person in the society, be it rich or poor, wants to maintain brotherhood, but some leaders mislead the people just to grind their own axes. He asked people to make their own judgement about people and affairs.
 
 Member of Parliament from Sonipat, Ramesh Kaushik, also spoke on the occasion.
 
 Others present on the occasion included MLAs, Mrs Prem Lata, Mr Mahipal Dhanda and Mr Jasbir Deswal, former Member of Parliament, Mr Surender Barwala, Member, HPSC, Mr Jai Bhagwan Goyal, Secretary, State BJP, Mr Jawahar Saini and other dignitaries.
