
Ramu (Ram Gopal Varma) called me one day to say he had an interesting role for me in 'Sarkar 3'. I was in the middle of another shoot and he sketched it out for me on the phone.
 
 Our equation is still that of the 'Satya' director and a newcomer. I never ask him any questions or even for the script. He simply briefs me with all the references. He has some interesting ideas on which I start building the character, rehearsing scenes which may not be a part of the script but help me play the guy in any situation. We had a look test and I started shooting. After four-five days, I was told that it was my last day and again no questions were asked.
 
 Just to be directed by Ramu, the man who kick-started my career with Bhiku Mhatre, is worth any role. And since he reacts to anything new in a childlike manner, I love surprising him just to get that reaction. I got it, this time too.
 
 
 
 I met Hansal Mehta through my friend Ashish Vidyarthi when I first came to the city. We made 'Dil Pe Mat Le Yaar' together and since then have watched each other's journey closely. So I was surprised when I got a call from his casting director for this role. I asked Mukesh Chhabra to tell Hansal to connect with me directly. He admitted that he didn't think I would be interested in this role. But when he narrated the real life story of his muse Shrinivas Ramchandra Siras, who was sacked from his position as Reader and Chair of Modern Indian Languages at the Aligarh Muslim University on charges of homosexuality, I was interested. I got a detailed narration from his chief assistant director Asmit who then started coming home for two-three hours everyday to go over the script with me.
 
 Asmit would also recite the works of great Marathi poems and teach me how to write the language. These workshops helped me discover Siras, a lonely old professor left alone by his own family in an unfamiliar city, seeking solace in literature and  's songs. I did not want to play him as a typical filmi homosexual so the focus was never on his sexuality.
 
 I borrowed the accent from Mukul Abhyankar, the director of my upcoming film, 'Missing'. Unlike Satya's Bhiku Mhatre, Siras is a literate man and so spoke with a different accent and pitch. He never took words for granted.
 
 On the 10th day of my meeting with Asmit, he told me that I had become Siras in the way I walked, spoke and even thought. After the look test, I sent a picture to the writer-editor Apurva Asrani and he was zapped, commenting on the loneliness in my eyes. I owe this performance to Asmit's workshops and Hansal who after the initial brief, let me be.
 
 
  
 
 
 For a while, my relationship with   with whom I collaborated on 'Satya', went downhill and we stopped talking. During this phase, for about five years, I was down and out after the National Award-winning film, '1971'. I was almost incapacitated by a shoulder ailment which made it difficult for me to move my right hand. There was talk of surgery but it was a complicated operation and the doctors were wary that if anything went wrong, I might not be able to move my hand at all. The physiotherapy was tough and the roles had dried up.
 
 There was nothing for me to do except watch films and call the makers to express my appreciation of their work. I called Anurag too after Dev D but we didn't discuss working together.
 
 But soon after 'Raajneeti', I got a call from him at around 10 pm. He had a great script. I told him to keep a bottle of red wine handy and rushed to his office for a narration. Sardar Khan is always threatening to take revenge but is distracted from his intention to kill by women who make him go weak in his knees. That was interesting. I played him as this rugged, bald, well built guy with raw sex appeal, who is more of a womaniser than the mafia. To me, he was this somewhat stupid but adorable guy who has sex constantly on his mind. He was unlike any protagonist I had played before.
 
 
 
 This film came to me during the phase I spoke about earlier when I was down and forced to do some films just to keep the kitchen fires burning. I was wondering what Prakash Jha would offer me when he called. He surprised me by giving me a choice of two roles, one of which was that of a modern-day Duryodhan who believes, and rightly so, that he is being wronged by not being allowed to run for the Chief Minister's post after his father's death. Veerendra Pratap is a rich and powerful man, driven by power and ambition, completely ruthless. He's a seasoned politician, which was why when delivering that famous speech which ends with the phrase "karara jawab milega" I had our former Prime Minister, Atal Bihari Vajpayee, in mind in the way I started speaking on a low note and then increased the pitch.
 
 Prakash Jha gave me the lines a day before we were to shoot the scene. It took me two hours to rehearse them in my hotel suite. The next morning, after my gym session, I was back at work, till the time we were to take the shot. I knew he had three-four cameras trained on me and I had to get it right in one take. And I did!
 
 
 
 I didn't want to do the film because I didn't think I looked like a prince. I only agreed on  's insistence after he assured me that if I saw photographs of some of the royals, I'd consider myself really good-looking.
 
 Prep included driving to the race course every morning at 5 am for two months to learn horse riding and polo. After that, there were readings and rehearsals with Mr Benegal who wanted nothing of my background or upbringing to creep into my performance. Maharaja Vijendra Singh of Fatehpur was a royal born in a palace and knew no other life. The irony was that till then I had never been inside a palace.
 
 
 
 It's the most difficult character I've played yet. It's tough to define good and evil. In this case, I was the devil and I saw him as an intelligent, attractive, flamboyant character with the ability to see the future. He was like the bars you see, colourful and enticing from the outside, with their flashing billboards, but dark dungeons inside. I gave Raghavan long hair as it added to his swag and a menacing laugh, making him exciting and enticing but dangerous. Raveena's character, bar dancer Neeta, confesses to  's cop, Manu Verma, she'll do anything for her lover, who was also a Raghavan, the shadowy killer. Even Manu's wife, Supriya, is enslaved when Raghavan's spirit enters his body and he makes love to her.
 
 Five months of prep went into putting this character on paper. Kamlesh Pandey would sit with me as I acted Raghavan out and write the dialogues accordingly. And what unforgettable lines he wrote, "Na koi marta hai, na koi maarta hai ... yeh main nahi kehta, Gita mein likha hai!"
 
 
 
 Ram Gopal Varma had seen me in a fleeting appearance in  's 'Bandit Queen' and told me that he wanted to make a film with me on the gang wars in Mumbai. I introduced him to two writers but things didn't work out. Then I ran into Anurag Kashyap at  's office and took him to Ramu. They got along famously and we grew close. Along with Saurabh Shukla, Anurag penned the screenplay.
 
 Initially, Ramu had wanted me to play Satya, but then he felt the role needed an actor who spoke through silence and his magnetic eyes. He took 'Satya' to JD Chakravarthi and offered me the now iconic role of Bhiku Mhatre.
 
 Anurag and I created a back story for Bhiku. I was unfamiliar with Mumbai's gangsters, but I'd seen plenty of criminals in my hometown, Bihar. I modelled him on them and realised that except for the lingo, the power struggle is the same everywhere. As far as Bambaiya Hindi went, I found my muse in my maid, who was from Kolhapur.
 
 Bhiku is mercurial. There's nothing subtle about him, he only knows how to kill. He is exuberant rather than intelligent, a family man. Govind Namdeo's character, Bhau Thakurdas Jhawle, and Chakravarthi's Satya are his brains. He only wants to be the city's gang lord.
 
 Until then the mafias had only worn white suits and smoked cigars. I gave Bhiku a black ganji, a pair of black denims from my own wardrobe and printed shirts, which I had stumbled upon in a shop on Bandra's Hill Road. They had 14 such shirts. I bought them all and made my gang lord a colourful character with a dark side. They helped me make this dangerous man lovable.
 
 I ate, slept and dreamt about him for five months before we started shooting. Anurag and Ramu were my sounding boards. Ramu had an interesting take. He pointed out that if a guy sat next to you in the cinema hall, you'd talk to him normally till he told you he was a gangster. He wouldn't change but your behaviour towards him would change.
 
 
  
 
