HYDERABAD: A day after a botched attempt to detonate an unauthorized five-storeyed structure at Guttala Begumpet, an embarrassed   tried to salvage the situation and deployed officials at the site, where the structure stood with a perilous tilt. Civic body workers climbed to the decrepit building, drilled into the columns and removed loose bricks and cleared debris.GHMC officials could not fathom the courage to conduct another controlled implosion and postponed the exercise till Wednesday . They said, bricks stopped access to the beam and columns and these have been taken out. “A drilling exercise was conducted to estimate the impact of implosion and understand the reinforcement pattern. We will reassess the situation and plan the next move,“ said GHMC commissioner B Janardhan Reddy .

 Town planning officials said 10 kg of commercial explosives were planted on the ground and first floor on Monday to blow up the building.“The structure will be razed with the same technology .There is no question of scrapping the demolition,“ GHMC chief city planner S Devender Reddy told TOI.
 
 There were mixed reactions from experts on use of implosion technology . Experts said the building should be carefully examined before demolition, irrespective of technology used. “Before the second round of implosion, workers need to thoroughly examine the site as the structure is partially razed,“ said V Nagesh, a structural engineer.
 
 Explosives can be placed on aside as the building has tilted, said experts. All weak bricks should be removed from floors.“If loose elements in the structure are not removed before implosion, it can have a dangerous impact with bricks flying in the air,“ said NV Ramana Rao, professor from civil engineering department Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University (JNTU).
 
 Some experts said this technology cannot be used for demolition in residential areas. On Monday , construction material was spread across 150m from the building. GHMC instructed officials to stay 200m away from the blast site. A director of the firm, Uttam Blastech Pvt Ltd, Sharad Serwete, said, implosion is the only way out to bring the down the partially collapsed building.
 
