KOLKATA: Author-turned bank official   on Monday wrote to the Central Board of Film Certification’s (CBFC) regional office, pointing out that the film ‘Dhananjoy’ might be in contempt of court, drawing a sharp denial from filmmaker Arindam Sil.

 The online trailer of the film — which deals with   Chatterjee, who was convicted and hanged in 2004 for the rape-murder of 14-year-old Hetal Parekh — has created a stir. A section eagerly wants to find out “Chatterjee’s side of the story”, while another wants to boycott it.
 
 Sil insisted the film neither supports rape nor maligns the judiciary. “A group with vested interests is doing this since they don’t want to hear or see the truth,” he said.
 
 Mukhopadhyay said she didn’t belong to any political party, but was prompted to write to the CBFC after seeing the trailer. “The trailer is contesting the judiciary’s verdict,” she said. “Dhananjoy’s mercy petition was rejected by the then Indian President. In the trailer, there is a close-up of the victim, suggestive of satisfaction during a consensual act. This is wrong.... I feel the film will empower criminals. Next, we will have films on the rapists of Nirbhaya and Aruna Shanbaug. My letter to the CBFC requests all these issues to be kept in mind while certifying this film.” Sil said his detractors were jumping to conclusions too early. 
 
 Advocate Mala Duttaghosh, also a CBFC member, said: “I have no idea about this film. Legally speaking, if any movie maligns the judiciary, we have to refer to Clause 2(XVIII) of the guidelines in the Cinematograph Act. This clause states that visuals or works which engage in contempt of court or undermines dignity of the court can’t get clearance.”
 
 Advocate Amales Ray said: “A filmmaker has the freedom to express through cinema. The filmmaker has a fundamental right to criticise the decision of a court but should not undermine the dignity of the court. It is the duty of CBFC to play the role of a guard in a pragmatic and realistic manner.”
 
 
