HYDERABAD: A petition to the   has asked that the murder of   in Olathe, US should be investigated as a hate crime.

 The online petition has already been signed by 49,745 as on March 2 morning. The petition has been created on the official White House portal which provides the facility for online petitions to be created.
 
 “The fatal shooting of an Indian engineer allegedly gunned down by a Kansas man on Wednesday, February 22nd, 2017, who said “get out of my country” must be treated as a hate crime,” the petition said.
 
 Further, the petition said: “We call upon President   to state clearly and unequivocally that he denounces this incident. We would also like the US Department of Justice and local law enforcement to investigate this murder as what it is, a hate crime. Anything less will be an injustice to the victims and their families.”
 
 The petition was titled “Indian engineers target of hate crime” and was created on February 24, just days after the incident in which Srinivas   was shot dead by a gunman in Olathe, Kansas, US. The incident took place at Austin’s Bar and Grille. Another Indian, Alok Madasani was injured in the shoot-out.
 
 The alleged killer, Adam Purinton had opened fire at them after demanding to know which country they came from and if they were in the US illegally. Another American who spoke up for the two Indians, hailing from Hyderabad, Ian Grillot was also shot at.
 
 Sai Kishore who is promoting the petition said on his FB about the incident, “A senseless hate crime has taken away my beloved brother @Srinu Kuchibhotla, great soul from all of us.. as we try to reconcile and heal during this time, I request all of you to check this petition and sign it if you think it is the right thing to do.. appreciate all who have already signed this petition.”
 
 The goal is to get one lakh people to sign the petition. But 2017 more signatures are need to take the total to 50,255 in order to elicit a response from the White House, the petition platform said.
 
