CHENNAI: The government on Thursday put officials in Chennai on   even as a 32-year-old man with symptoms of the disease died in Tambaram.

 If tests confirm that the Tambaram resident had contracted dengue, it would take the death toll from the disease in the city to 21 since January this year. Officials said they were yet to positively ascertain the cause of death.
 
 Several victims have been schoolchildren and the school education department on Thursday issued an advisory to be circulated across the state.
 
 Tests revealed that at least four schoolchildren who died with symptoms of   in Chennai and on the outskirts in the past few days had contracted the disease. Two of the children were from the city, a 10-year-old girl was from Tiruvallur, and an 11-year-old girl was from Maduranthakam.
 
 There have been more than 8,000 cases of dengue in the state in the last nine months. Chennai has reported more than 130 cases of dengue since January and three deaths in the past week.
 
 The state health department will start outpatient fever clinics in all government hospitals where at least two doctors will be posted round the clock including on weekends and public holidays.
 
 “There is now a spike in fever and dengue cases in Chennai and its outskirts,” health minister C Vijaya Baskar told reporters here on Thursday, while announcing the opening of the fever clinics. “We are taking all measures to bring the disease under control.”
 
 Public health officials say that almost all the deaths occurred because patients were admitted to tertiary hospitals very late.
 
 While the state has deputed 92 units that will spread across the city to undertake vector control measure including fogging, senior public health officials urged people to prevent mosquito breeding in their houses and workplaces.
 
 The government has asked schools to ensure that the space around classrooms and bathrooms should not be waterlogged and any stagnation should be attended to immediately by authorities.
 
 Schools have been told to check if all water tanks and water pots and containers are kept closed and also raise awareness among students on drinking clean water only from closed containers.
 
 The department has advised residents to prevent storing water in open vessels or containers and check for water stagnation, which enables mosquito breeding, in coconut shells, old tyres, flowerpots, plates and water tanks.
 
 “During the assembly session, school heads must educate students of the symptoms and raise awareness about mosquito breeding and diseases like dengue and chikungunya,” the advisory said.
 
 
