SHIMLA: If Lodha panel report is implemented in totality, then   would have no option but to leave the post of president of   (HPCA) as he is heading it for last 16 years.

 Sources at HPCA said it needs to be seen how Justice Lodha panel recommendations are implemented by the   (BCCI) and state cricketing bodies as per the directions of   (SC). According to Lodha panel recommendations, a board official has to undergo a three year cooling-off period after serving two consecutive terms (each term consisting of three years) in the BCCI, which would mean that Thakur would have to leave HPCA too.
 
 According to sources, majority of the office-bearers would have to step down if the nine years tenure recommendation is implemented and in this case exceptions would be Arun Dhumal, younger brother of Anurag Thakur and member of HPCA executive body, and press secretary Mohit Sood as they are having tenure of less than nine years.
 
 Furthermore, they said the future of HPCA now depends on the next decision of SC. They said that so far, Thakur has enjoyed unchallenged position in the state cricket body for the fourth term as president and each time during election no other contender dares to stand against him which paves a way for his unanimous election.
 
 It was 16 years back in 2000 when Thakur had become the president of HPCA first time at age of 25. Sources said this year it was the turn of   to nominate candidate for presidential post of BCCI and Thakur was undoubtedly the strongest contender. 
 
 He has been responsible to make cricket popular even in the remotest corner of the state and to turn the fortunes of state cricket body from a fund starved organization to a cash rich organization. In his tenure, he has not only constructed a beautiful cricket stadium at Dharamshala and other parts of Himachal, but he has also constructed a luxury hotel “The Pavillion” where players stay during international matches.
 
 Since its formation in 1960, HPCA has witnessed only four presidents, Sardar Preetpal Singh, Rajinder Zar, Raghubir Singh Thakur and Anurag Thakur.
 
