CHANDIGARH: Even after 15 days of implementation of the   (GST), the ordeal of thousands of military veterans in the Tricity is still continuing because of shortage of goods at the canteen store department (CSD), the retailing platform for the defence forces.

 Most of the CSD canteens in the Tricity are running completely dry because of non-supply of fresh stock in post-GST from the store depots.
 
 Sources also confirmed that the canteens have been asked to clear the pre-GST stock and then they would be given fresh stock.
 
 At various CSD canteens in Mohali, Panchkula and Chandigarh, TOI found the racks of most of the stores were empty.
 
 At present, most of the canteens have dead-stock (which took long time to sell) and most wanted items, which are used in daily routine, were out of stock.
 
 When asked, the CSD canteen managers, on condition of anonymity, told TOI that the supply of items from CSD depots in Ambala and Jalandhar has been stopped, as they want all canteens to clear the old stock first.
 
 “We are left with only with slow-moving stock or goods that are either required in winter or are not sold immediately. Fast-selling or most-demanded items are almost finished. We will not be able to get them till the clearance of pre-GST stock,” said one of the managers of a Chandigarh-based canteen.
 
 When asked about empty racks, Captain  , assistant manager of a Mohali-based CSD canteen, said they are hopeful to get the stock by next week.
 
 Lt Col SS Sohi (retd), president of a Mohali-based NGO working for ex-servicemen, said that earlier CSD canteens had stopped supply of products 15 days prior to the implementation of GST regime but till date, the problem is continuing in most of the canteens in the Tricity. “There is complete poor management exposing that veterans are not on priority for the government. Immediate attention is needed to resolve the issue,” Sohi added.
 
 Brigadier   (retd), convener, Indian Ex-Servicemen Movement (Haryana chapter, said that most of the veterans are facing the problem because of complete uncertainty over the disposal of pre-GST stock. “It also reflects how the babus (civilian government officers) managing the CSD affairs are non-serious towards the issues of veterans and defence fraternity,” Brig Kiran added.
 
 No problem of liquor
 
 Veterans and members of defence fraternity are not facing any problem of liquor supply. Liquor is out of the goods and service tax regime.
 
