Gujarati films, in the recent past have showcased some truly empowered women who've stolen hearts and made considerable impact at the box-office. In an industry that is predominantly male-centric, some Dhollywood leading ladies have shattered pre-conceived myths about the significance of a female actor in a film, evolving from being a mere decorative centrepiece to someone who calls the shots on camera. Sample this: Supriya Pathak's heartwarming portrayal of a woman opting for late motherhood silencing naysayers in Carry on Kesar, Monal Gajjar's strong character in Thai Jashe!, provides unflinching support to the love of her life; Aruna Irani fights the odds for the man she loves in Kaik Karne Yaar; Aarti Patel, the quintessential mother in Mission Mummy-these actresses have made the audience take note of their acting caliber.

 With the local film industry still finding its feet, these actresses have managed to create a space for themselves. “It is not easy to portray a character like this,“ says Supriya about Carry on Kesar , adding, “This was a sensitive topic and you are never sure if you will find acceptance from the audience. But I loved playing the character. It was worth the risk.“
 
 While formula films are still prefered, letting your work do the talking is the best possible way to set new trends. Aruna Irani, who has played numerous strong characters in Gujarati films in the past, made a comeback with Kaik Karne Yaar. “In my comeback film, playing this strong character who makes an impact was a huge responsibility,“ says the veteran actress.
 
 And it's not just the actresses who are looking to break the established norms, filmmakers are also now open to create female characters that have depth. Filmmaker Dhwani Gautam, who is all set to make a female oriented film, says, “The audience wants different stories, and will accept something new if you tell the story with conviction. My upcoming film revolves around a female character and I don't think there is any set back.“
 
 Filmmaker Ashish Kakkar, whose film Mission Mummy was all about a mother who gives it all to keep her family together and happy feels that female characters have a distinct power to connect, unlike male characters. He says, “My film is about a mother's love, her struggle to keep up with changing times. We need such characters to be shown in our films.“
 
 In a film industry where filmmakers are more than ready to experiment, hopefully we'll get to see more memorable female characters who will rule the screens without having to play second fiddle to a male actor. 
 
