CHENNAI: A year ago, chief minister J   flagged off the 8.6 km second elevated corridor of Chennai   Rail Project from the secretariat through video conferencing facility, while then Union IT minister M   flagged off the train from   station.

 Jayalalithaa, dressed in her favourite green sari, waving the green flag on the LED screen, as Naidu waved the flag in front of the train was among the last images of her that people saw. The following night she was taken to a private hospital in an unconscious state. For 74 days, from September 22, the 68-year-old fought infections and ailments that kept doctors, paramedics, senior minister, followers and her rivals on tenterhooks.
 
 While there is no ‘official reason’ for why Jayalalithaa chose to inaugurate the project from the secretariat, those who were around that day said she appeared weak, but visibly cheerful. "She was a bit under the weather and preferred not to go to Little Mount. But, none of us knew that she was so sick that she would need hospitalisation the next day," said a senior bureaucrat refusing to be named.
 
 Madras Medical College vice-principal Dr Sudha Seshayyan, who was the master of ceremonies for the Metrorail event at the secretariat, recalled how a smiling Jayalalithaa arrived at the venue 45 minutes ahead of schedule. "We told her that the Union ministers had not yet reached Little Mount. She then went for another function. When she returned, she wanted us to start at once," said Dr Seshayyan.
 
 Through the function, she remained calm and showed no signs of discomfort. She smiled when the organisers panicked because one of the speakers took a while to conclude. After her six- and-a half minute speech, Jayalalithaa waited for the cue from Dr Seshayyan to get up and leave. "She was walking slowly and held on to the railing. When I wished her, she stopped and said she was happy to work with me. I thought she wanted to tell me something else, but she smiled at me and walked away calling out to her trusted aide  ," recalled Dr Seshayyan.
 
 The next time Dr Seshayyan, also a director of anatomy at MMC, saw Jayalalithaa the smile had vanished. On December 5, she lay lifeless in a hospital gown at the special ward in  . Doctors had just declared her dead following a massive cardiac arrest. Seshayyan carried out the embalming procedure before Jayalalithaa’s body could be kept for public homage the next morning. "I had a big task at hand. The entire state was mourning. They were waiting to see the chief minister look the way when she was alive. Just like how she was when I last saw her."
 
