DAMMAM: Malayali volunteers have sought immediate intervention of the central and state governments to save the life of a Malayali man who is in a critical condition at a hospital in Alkhobar here.

  (48), a native of Chonad near Thalassery in Kannur, was hospitalized on December 28. An employee of achocolate factory , Sayyid, fainted during duty hours and was immediately admitted to the hospital. Two days later, he suffered a cardiac arrest and was shifted to the intensive care unit, equipped with artificial respiratory system. The private hospital charged SR 2 lakh (approximately Rs 36,10,000) for a month's treatment. On the day he was admitted to the hospital, his company had paid SR 4,500 (approximately Rs 81,000). Now, his relatives here are planning to shift him to multi-specialty hospital and SR 1 lakh (approximately Rs 18lakh) is required for the same. However, the insurance officials have informed that since Sayyid had not disclosed about primary diabetes at the time of policy registration, he was not eligible for the insurance amount.
 
 For providing expert treatment in India he has to be airlifted in an aircraft with ICU facili ties, which require Rs 8 lakh.Sayeed's wife, Sereena, has approached chief minister   and MLA A N   and sought help. Besides, his relatives here have submitted a petition to the Dammam governorate.
 
 
 
 
 Riyadh: The remittance of expatriates in Saudi Arabia dropped by 3% in 2016, according to the released by  . During the past eleven years it has been increasing. In 2016 the expats sent SR 151.9 billion to their home countries where as they had sent SR 156.9 billion. During the same period the Saudis remittance from abroad also declined from SR 89.2 billion to SR 59.6 billion.
 
 
 
 
 Riyadh: A Malayali man, who was denied salary for months, has returned to Kerala.Following labour court order, his sponsor paid SR 6,000 salary arrears and gave the exit visa stamped .
 
 Malappuram native Mustafa was working as a salesman in the kingdom. Though he requested his sponsor to send him back to his native place, the latter demanded SR 15,000 for giving final exit visa stamped passport.
 
 With the help of Malayali volunteers, Mustafa filed a case at the labour court. And finally the sponsor paid salary arrears and the gave his exit visa stamped.
 
