NOIDA: The office of   in Sector 2 was sealed by city police on Wednesday for allegedly running a “Ponzi pyramid scheme” and duping scores of investors in the name of high returns.

 In the morning, a team from Sector 20 police station, accompnied by cyber security experts, visited the company office and conducted a search. The officials searched documents, files, digital and print evidences and preserved them at the same place. The company officials, however, were not present.
 
 SP (city), Dinesh Yadav said the police have found four bank accounts of ICICI Bank and Yes Bank and have frozen the deposited amounts. “The company premises has been sealed to ensure that there is no tampering with the evidences,” he said. The complainant, Amit Kishore Jain, a resident of Ghaziabad, also recorded his statement to police in this regard.
 
 Jain said that he had invested Rs 3.5 lakh and subscribed to six IDs in the company. “The company had suddenly stopped payments to investors. I registered an FIR suspecting foul play, as a similar fraud of Ablaze Info Solutions Pvt Ltd was busted a few days ago,” he said.
 
 Jain named Anurag Garg and Sandesh Verma, the directors of the company, in the complaint. The company officials’ mobile numbers remained unreachable during the day. They have also not joined the investigations so far.
 
 Meanwhile, the complainant has moved an application before the police seeking safety. “I have played the role of whistleblower in this multi-crore scam. I feel that the directors of the company are influential and I fear for my safety,” he said.
 
 A group of investors also gathered outside the company office on Wednesday as the news of police search spread. The investors seemed confused and also tried to get information about their investment.
 
 Noida police said investors can register their complaint on Centre for Cyber Crime Investigation’s website—http://www.cccinoida.org. The complaints will be incorporated in the investigation.
 
 The police officers said that they are yet to figure out the total number of investors and money involved in the suspicious business. However, it is believed that the company officials had made transactions of several crores to a Meerut-based jeweller a few months ago.
 
 Noida police have written to Uttar Pradesh Special Task Force (UP-STF) to take over the investigation in the case. “The STF is already investigating the Rs 3,700 crore   of Anubhav Mittal. We have asked them to investigate this case too,” said a police officer.
 
 Amit Pathak, SSP, UP-STF said that the STF teams are busy in investigating the Rs 3,700 crore scam. “We have received the application about   Trade Pvt Ltd. Our teams will take over the investigation of this case in a few days,” he said.
 
 
