PUNE: A random talk was doing the rounds on the web world on Friday that Australian   is the 18th Test cricketer to have an apostrophe in his surname.

 That piece of statistics could not be verified. But what's certain is that the left-arm spinner got his name registered as the owner of one of the best spells by a visiting spinner in India.
 
 In his third spell of 4.1 overs, the Aussie had one maiden, gave only five runs and took six wickets that broke India's back. After that third spell, O'Keefe finished the innings with 13.1-2-35-6.
 
 The Malaysia-born 32-year-old bowler, playing only in his fifth Test after making his debut in 2014, said: "It's amazing how things can quickly change over here. I was none of 30 off nine, probably didn't bowl very well at all in my first (spell). And then, it all just happened really quickly, and I guess that's the sort of wicket it is," he said. "It hasn't really sunk it yet. I think it will if that contributes to a win."
 
 After bowling two average spells before lunch, SOK, as he is known by his teammates, came to the ground with former India player and Australia's spin mentor S Sriram in between the break. "In my earlier spells, I think I went back to my comfort zone, which is what I bowl in Australia. I think suddenly, it was just probably going a bit over the top and whenever I was trying to bowl quick, it was too full," he said.
 
 "It was ordinary bowling in the first six overs. I'd been working in the nets with some other variations, just changing the seam angle and arm angle. You probably don't notice it, but for me it made all the difference. Again, Sri (Sriram) was like 'let's go out and bowl till you feel comfortable with it and then hit it on. Let's start up with it in the next innings'."
 
 The change of ends (to the Hill End) for O'Keefe by   also contributed to the difference. "We were debating it in the changing room," said O'Keefe. 
 
 "Starc and I didn't really care which end we bowled at. The idea was Mitch had created some footmarks for Nathan (offie  ) outside off stump at that end, so I think the move was just to bowl Nathan from that end (Pavilion End). And that's the end that Ashwin had bowled his overs from. So if the Indians are doing it why not fall in tow?" Though O'Keefe didn't get  's wicket, he said getting the Indian captain out for a duck made his day. "I think my expression says it all when you look at the footage. I think I was more excited than Starcy ( ). I was running around and the wheels are spinning only because you know how good he is and regardless of the conditions, this guy is an out-and-out star. We have got to be on our game in the next innings. To knock him over for a duck is great fortune for us." 
 
