PUNE: The state election campaign has planned a host of initiatives to   to exercise their franchise in the upcoming municipal corporation elections in February. 

 These initiatives include banners or posters, advertisements and community radio programmes hosted by women.
 
 “We planned these outreach programmes as the voting percentage of women voters was lower than that of the male voters in 10 municipal corporations in the previous elections (in 2012),” a senior election official told TOI. 
 
 In 2012, 20% more men had turned out to vote. 
 
 “The banners which will be put up will focus on and encourage women to coming out and vote,” the official added. 
 
 The commission has already reached out to housing societies, banks, colleges and community radio channels to spread awareness on the importance of voting. The officials said they will now reach out to voters segment-wise, with women being an important part of that plan.
 
 In a recent survey commissioned by the   and carried out by the Gokhale Institute of Politics and Economics in the four wards of the  , it was found that women were, for the most part, intermittent voters.
 
 Six wards were covered in the survey, including four wards with low polling percentages — NIBM, Vimannagar, Balewadi and Kothrud. The other two wards — Hadapsar and Alka Talkies — had reported a high turnout in 2012. 
 
 According to lead researcher Manasi Phadke, only 24% of the women covered in the sample were regular voters, as compared to 36% of the men. 
 
 “Around 32% of the women have not voted in the past PMC elections, whereas those who’ve voted intermittently (once) is 43%. It is this group of intermittent female voters that needs to be sensitized using innovative awareness campaigns,” Phadke said.
 
 In a classification of “rare”, “intermittent” and “regular” voters, women voters who were classified as “rare” had not cast their vote in the last two elections. The top reason for this was that their names were missing from the list. For those classified as “intermittent”, the reason for not voting was that they were not in town at the time. 
 
 
