KOLKATA: Arch-rivals Trinamool and   joined hands in a Delhi meeting on Tuesday to decide Gopalkrishna Gandhi’s name as the oppostion’s pick for the vice-presidential election.

 Trinamool Rajya Sabha leader Derek O’Brien proposed Gandhi’s name and CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury seconded the proposal, putting behind the bitter past since Gandhi as Bengal governor had to face heat from the Bengal CPM following his “cold horror” statement a day after the Nandigram police firing on March 14, 2007.
 
 It was a big day for   as Gandhi gave his consent 15 minutes after the leaders got in touch with him over telephone. “He (Gandhi) was giving a lecture in a class when we called him. In fact, Mamata-di had sounded him out about the proposal earlier. He got back after 15 minutes to convey his consent,” Derek said. In fact, Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad and Yechury stood by Derek while he made the call to Gandhi. Mamata has congratulated Gandhi for being the opposition’s unanimous choice.
 
 It is another matter whether the 18 opposition parties — who met in Delhi on Tuesday with a total of 117 MPs — would succeed in their mission. But Gandhi could make poles meet, something he tried in vain during his stint as the West Bengal governor.
 
 Yechury’s putting the stamp on Gandhi’s candidature is also an indicator that the party mandarins in Delhi aren’t taking former chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee’s opinion on Gandhi seriously. Bhattacharjee, in his recently published book ‘Phire Dekha II’ — spanning the last 10 years of the Left Front government — has questioned the role of Gandhi during the Singur-Nandigram days. 
 
 “Who did he (Gandhi) want to satisfy?” Bhattacharjee asks, leaving it for anybody to guess who could be behind the then governor going public against his own government.
 
 “People in this state will remember   as long as the state bleeds for want of industry,” Bhattacharjee says in the book. The former CM pours out his feelings again — “I was astonished with the governor’s public statement. He was aware of the fact that people and policemen were being killed there. The government sent police to restore law and order. Who did he want to satisfy?” he asks.
 
 However, the majority in the state didn’t take the Left government’s role in Singur and Nandigram lightly and that catapulted Mamata to power four years later in 2011. And this time, the CPM leaders chose to second Gandhi’s, name putting behind the stand of the Bengal CPM on him.
 
