PUNE: Voters made a beeline for checking their names in the   and submitting objections, if any, at the Pune Municipal Corporation’s ward offices a day ahead of Tuesday’s deadline.

 The civic elections are scheduled on February 21 for which officials have published the latest version of the list that includes about 26.42 lakh voters.
 
 Officials have been receiving suggestions/objections regarding the electoral roll since the list was published last week. Until Monday, the office had received 420 objections, most pertaining to wrong listing of names. Tuesday is the last day to submit complaints.
 
 Staff at the ward offices said that the rush of people at the election offices has increased over the last few days since everybody wants to ensure that the final version of the electoral roll has minimum mistakes.
 
 Ramesh Bane, a Shivajinagar resident visited the Ghole Road office on Monday afternoon in order to check his name in the list. “I have been voting for the last three elections but it is always safe to check if my name is in the list,” Bane said.
 
 Officials at the ward offices said that they assist visitors to check their names and submit the applications. An official at the Karve road ward office was busy attending to a few visitors and explaining how they could check their names in the list.
 
 “Voters list is a huge document. Finding a name becomes easy if the voter is aware of the part number. We are assisting people in finding the names and other details. For this, we have provided a printed list besides a search with the help of a computer,” an official said.
 
 The election department has stated that it has already started scrutiny of applications. “The office will not wait until the deadline (January 17) to start scrutiny,” an official said.
 
 He added, “During scrutiny, we check if a complaint is genuine. For instance, if a complaint pertains to wrong listing of name in a different panel, our staff will first check the name in the panel-wise list and then it will be checked in draft list provided by the election commission. If required, the staff will conduct a house visit at the mentioned address following which a change will be introduced.”
 
 The exercise will end on Tuesday after which the civic body will publish the final version of the electoral roll on January 21.
 
 
