Winter mornings are not easy. More so when you have to wake up early and get ready for class. Over the past few weeks, many students from DAVV University have not been able to make it in time for their first class of the day. Their reason? Hostel rules that are making winter mornings more difficult than they already are. Here’s a few of the “unreasonable” rules that students are complaining about this winter. Soup and cold winter nights go hand in hand. But what happens when you live in a hostel and are not allowed to use an electric kettle? Kajol Kumari, an MCA student of IIPS College residing in the girl’s hostel of DAVV University says, “One of the hostel rules is that no electric utility items except laptops and mobile phones are allowed. This means despite the continuous dip in the temperature students aren’t allowed to use room heaters, electric kettles or immersion rods. And our campus has plenty of green cover that makes it quite cold during winter.” For MBA student of EMRC College, Meenal Mehta, getting ready in the morning means getting in line to wait for hot water. Meenal’s hostel has only one geyser with more than 20 students depending on it. “The insufficient number of geysers make the situation bad. There are 11 rooms in one wing and 22 girls stay in them. We have three washrooms for 22 of us, but only one geyser and that too is functional only till  . And we don’t have permission to use induction cookers, since we have a common kitchen that is open 24 hours,” says Meenal, and Rounak Wadhwa of IIPS College agrees. “Every morning there is a tussle between the boys for the only tap that provides hot water. The girls have an advantage with the kitchen, but the boy’s hostel doesn’t even have that,” he says. And the plight of students residing in off campus hostels is no better. Siddharth Gupta, an engineering student of Acropolis Institute of Technology and Research shares, “I stay in a hostel near Geeta Bhawan. We don’t have any problems with regards to hot water since the hostel has a solar panel system. But to use the room heater, we have to make an advance payment of `700 to `1,000 that goes towards our electricity bill.” However, Nancy Sharma, who is preparing for competitive exams and is staying in a private hostel says, “Apart from the hot water and induction cooker problem, we don’t even get garam khana. By 8 or   the hostel food is cold and the authorities won’t even warm it for us.” Engineering student Shreya Jaiswal says, “We end up going to college without bathing, because we don’t get enough hot water on time.”