NAGPUR: Ahead of   minister Suresh Prabhu’s maiden visit to the city on Tuesday, there is a demand to make Nagpur a separate railway  . Various rail users’ bodies and individuals have pitched for a zonal headquarter in Nagpur to boost overall development of railways in the region.

 Former zonal rail users’ consultative committee (ZRUCC) member Pravin Dabli said Central Railway had five divisions, South East Central Railway (SECR) had three while South Central Railway had six divisions. “Nagpur can be a zone if Nagpur divisions of Central Railway and SECR, and Nanded division of SCR are merged,” he said. “This will help expedite various ongoing projects in the region,” he added.
 
 “Nagpur has huge railway land for establishment of new rail zone. Separate zone can play a key role in development of Vidarbha,” said Rail Yatri Sangh chief Brijbhushan Shukla. “Separate zone will increase connectivity across India as Nagpur is centrally located. It will also reduce workload on other zones,” he said.
 
 The organizations believe new rail zone will also generate employment and provide a platform for establishment of Railway Recruitment Board (RRB). Basant Shukla, general secretary of Bharatiya Yatri Kendra (BYK), said, “Nagpur can become a zone. The city is second capital of Maharashtra and has everything needed to be a zonal  . If Nagpur is declared a zone, projects worth crores will be expedited. Passengers will benefit.”
 
 The rail users’ bodies also demanded implementation of pending decisions like establishment of railway hospital and mechanized laundry here. “We are not demanding anything new, we just want implementation of old proposals already sanctioned in budgets before,” said BYK’s Shukla.
 
 He also demanded development of east side of the Nagpur station. “There is huge space to develop parking facility, restrooms for passengers, waiting halls and a police post for security,” he said.
 
 Dabli said even after five years, the Nagpur-Kalamna doubling project had not seen light of the day.
 
