 being slammed at airports across the world do not seem to have any effect on thieves at these bustling places. A Shahibaug-based chartered accountant’s business trip to New York ended on a sour note on Monday when he realised that unidentified individuals had broken the lock on his   to steal goods — the luggage had been checked in by the international carrier at the   in New York City and offloaded at the Ahmedabad airport. The victim Rajesh Somani, who had been flying on Qatar Airways, wrote to the airlines and authorities at the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel International Airport but to no avail. Unfortunately for Somani — who travels to the US at least once a year — he has been robbed in this manner thrice in the last three years

 
 
 
 Sharing his ordeal with Mirror, Somani said he realised his luggage had been broken into only after he reached home. “I landed at the city airport at 2 am on Monday after a week in New York and was eager to get home. It was only when I started to open my luggage to dig out the gifts I brought for my twoand- half year old daughter that I realised the lock and chains of my suitcase were broken. A quick check revealed that apart from some clothes and shoes, the thieves had stolen the backpack and watch I picked for my child. I don’t even know whether the theft took place at JFK Airport or Ahmedabad airport,” said the upset father, who called the city office of Qatar Airways to lodge acomplaint and even shot off an email.
 
 The airlines reportedly told him to fill up the concerned forms and said the matter would be investigated. Somani even called up A K Sharma, director of Ahmedabad airport to report the theft. “Two years ago, someone stole my daughter’s stroller that had been checked in and last year, I lost an electronic device in a similar manner. I had complained to the airline companies and Airports Authority of India all three times but I am yet to get results.” Confirming this, Sharma said that he had received a passenger’s communication about theft from his checkedin luggage and “I advised him to inform the airlines. We will definitely provide infrastructure help to the concerned airline company should they approach us during investigation.”
 
 Mirror’s email to Qatar Airways for a comment remained unanswered. It should be noted that the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel International Airport provides high connectivity to different parts of the United States. On March 21 this year, Mirror had reported how a luggage loader at the city airport had been screened by airline staff after suspicions were raised that he had stolen goods from passengers’ bags. The loader had reportedly stolen two bottles of deodorant and a watch worth Rs 3.9 lakh from a passenger’s luggage; the goods had been handed over to the police.
 
