From gardens at their terminus, to concerts on board their buses, to   at  , the officers at the   ( ) seem to want to connect with commuters in more ways than one.

 The Urur Olcott Kuppam Vizha concert aboard the 29C MTC bus this Thursday, for instance, will certainly be the first ever ticketed concert of its kind in the city.
 
 At 4 pm, musicians will hop on board the 29 C that begins its journey at Perambur, as part of the Vizha, which has been taking place in the city over the past few weeks. The bus will be their sabha, the commuters their rasikas, with musicians hopping on and off at various bus stops as a new troupe takes their place. "It will be a musical relay of sorts," says musician-volunteer for the festival Vignesh Ishwar. "The musicians will perform from Perambur to Thiruvanmiyur, the last stop on the bus route," he adds. Artistes include Vidya Raghavan, B Suchitra, Praveen Sparsh and Sofia Ashraf, and genres go from Indie, Carnatic, and rap, to harikatha and fusion.
 
 While for the Vizha organisers, the bus concerts are their way of highlighting how public spaces can be used for art, for the officers at MTC, it gives them a chance to offer something more to commuters.
 
 "We are open to ideas like the concert," says managing director of MTC V Krishnamoorthy. "And we would encourage more people to be involved," he says, and adds that a couple of years ago, INTACH had set up detailed heritage boards at bus stands listing out the historical sites around it. "Unfortunately, some of these have been destroyed but we are trying to restore them," he adds.
 
 Another initiative that the MTC plans to aggressively take up is the setting up of gardens at different bus terminuses that have the space, inspired by one of their own - K Balaji, a bus driver of the 7H route who set up a garden at the JJ Nagar Bus Terminus. The patch of green that got started 11 years ago with a coconut tree, now has plants ranging from medicinal herbs to vegetables and fruit trees, with both commuters and staff enjoying the fruits of Balaji's labour.
 
 "The JJ Nagar garden has set us on the idea to do the same at other terminuses," says Krishnamoorthy, adding that they have already zeroed in on some locations to start the process. "The MTC is always open to initiatives like this. Sometimes we have budget constraints but whenever people approach us with ideas, we're always open to it," he adds.
 
