KOLKATA: The   has turned out to be a major bother for the Narada accused, even more than the CBI.

 Senior   leaders having their names in the cases having their names in the cases have started consulting lawyers over the implications of the money-laundering case when some of them have gone on record that they took the money as donations. Such an admission gives the investigating agencies the scope to check the Trinamool 2014 Lok Sabha election account and also tally the claim with the audited statement submitted to the  .Those who can't substantiate their claim have to explain where the money went to.
 
 The Prevention of Money Laundering Act allows the probe agency to look into the bank accounts of the accused, call in question the assets they have acquired if they don't match with their declared income. All these make the process unpredictable for the accused. A section among the ruling Trinamool fears that the inquiry into the money trail may also draw in its ambit the accounts already under scanner in connection to the Trinetra muddle. The firm was allegedly a shell company launched to transfer money from a section of real estate firms to the Trinamool account during elections. Trinamool leader Mukul Roy had then denied the charge.
 
 The ED case will also call into question from where Mathew Samuel got the money before giving them to the senior Trinamool leaders and the IPS officer.Trinamool Rajya Sabha leader Derek O' Brien had in the upper house pointed at a possible foreign link of the amount. It was alleged that the money which was used to fund the sting operation before 2014 Lok Sabha election came from Dubai. While Samuel denied any Dubai funding, O' Brien had claimed that the Narada News boss made seven calls to the country. “We will de finitely look into how the entire operation was funded and question all stakeholders,“ said an ED official.
 
 Mathew Samuel in his affidavit to high court stated that he got the money from the   and gave it to the public servants. Sleuths will now question Samuel on his claims. According to lawyers, the other part of the probe is less complex. “Samuel has claimed that he gave the money and while giving it he has recorded the operation as secondary evidence. Now it's difficult for the Narada accused to say that they didn't take the money ,“ said high court lawyer Arunava Ghosh.
 
 That brings the agencies working on the Narada sting back to the nationalized bank account opened by TMC before 2014 election.
 
 ED officials on Saturday said “unknown others“ also form a very significant part of the probe as the   empowers them to conduct searches at the premise of anyone who might have helped the accused or was present there while the act was being committed.
 
