THANE: Seven-year-old Nita Sawant, who used to run and play around in the house wearing a singlet, is now being asked to wear a top and pants even when she is around her siblings. This second grader was barely understanding or accepting the changes in her growing body when she got her first period.

 Early puberty or medically speaking, ‘precocious puberty’, is when a girl undergoes puberty by the time she is seven to nine years old and boys undergo it before they turn 10.
 
 Many   like Nita hit puberty at an early age. This is mainly due to the changing lifestyle among children today, say doctors. Nowadays, children are more attracted to junk food, tend to be stressed and also sleep late. These factors affect hormonal changes, eventually leading to early menarche.
 
 Apart from lifestyle changes, there are other factors causing early puberty. “There could be many reasons for early puberty among children such as mental or physical trauma, head injury, thyroid problem and at times (around 5%), hereditary factors. Obesity among children is also one of the main factors for attaining early puberty. A girl child tend to be more prone to early puberty than boys,” said Dr.  , gynaecologist and fertility specialist.
 
 “Fatty diet and lack of exercise often lead to hormonal changes. So the body mistakes it to be oestrogen which is the primary female sex hormone. In other words, if the body needs one star hormone to activate the sexual hormones, it can mistake the hormonal changes caused by obesity to be the star hormone and mimics it to make changes in the body,” added Sinha.
 
  Sleeping late and stress can also result in early puberty as there is no healthy growth if the body does not receive enough rest. 
 
 “There is nothing wrong in hitting puberty at an early age; it’s just evolution. But the child and parents must be counselled about the accompanying physical and psychological changes. Also, experiencing menarche at an early age does not mean that these kids will hit menopause at an early age. The time of menopause differs from person to person depending on their fertility levels,” said Dr  , gynaecologist.
 
 Early puberty can be avoided if parents can ensure to provide a healthy diet for their children and skip junk food at least till the age of seven years, say the doctors. 
 
 There could be many reasons for early puberty among children such as mental or physical trauma, head injury, thyroid problem and at times (around 5%), hereditary factors. Obesity among children is also one of the main factors for attaining early puberty
 
