AZAMGARH: Nizamabad and Hariharpur, the two nerve centres of art in Azamagarh, are 85km apart but united in their feeling of being ignored and uncared for by successive governments in the state and the Centre. 

 Nizamabad is home to the famous black   with its intricate silver inlay work. Inside the narrow bylanes of the Nizamabad town, where about 70 potter families live, there is not a single man, woman or child who is not working a potter’s wheel, carving, polishing or scraping the surface of a clay artefact that’s being readied for sale.
 
 Despite the acclaim, though, the houses are still little more than mud huts and thatched roofs or unfinished brick structures, at best. “There is no institutional support to this art form. So, many artists have given up the traditional black pottery work and started to do the more saleable designs in clay,” says Mayank Prasad Prajapati, as he shapes   for the large order he has to send to Mumbai. 
 
 In election season, when leaders are crawling in every street corner, doling out promises and begging for votes, the Prajapatis of Nizamabad are a forgotten lot. “The black pottery we were famous for has now become restricted to just four families because the work is tough and material costs have gone up. Despite the much-hyped geographical indicator tag to Nizamabad black pottery, we get no support to export our products or any government help to push sales,” he added.
 
 The Prajapatis, originally from Kutch in Gujarat, are backward class artisans who settled in Nizamabad during the Mughal rule of Aurangzeb. The families never returned after the Mughal rule ended, and over the last few decades, they say they have been supporters of the BJP. “Among the OBCs, the Yadavs vote for the Samajwadi Party, while the Dalits back BSP. Modiji made promises to protect and provide for artisans, as did CM Akhilesh Yadav. But our conditions have gradually worsened. Neither the SP, nor the BJP have delivered on their development promises to us. The tradition of Nizamabad pottery is dying,” says Anand Prajapati, a sixth generation potter who says their dependence on middlemen for sale, and the wafer-thin profit margins is making the business unviable. 
 
 About 80km away, Hariharpur, the musical village of  , where even month-old babies respond to the notes of ‘sargam’ before they crawl, 80 Brahmin families work night and day to preserve a rich tradition of folk and classical music. Separated geographically, but not in their sentiments, this lot of artists also have the same grouse; little institutional support to prevent local talent from migrating outside the village.
 
 Pandit Ajay Mishra, a performing artist settled in Mumbai, but who frequents home in Hariharpur, says the Mishra community came and settled in Hariharpur as court performers of Raja Azam Fateh Khan of Azamgarh almost 600 years ago. The benevolent raja gave their ancestors land on which to settle and the families have lived here since. “ Hariharpur suffers on two accounts; one because it is in Azamgarh, which suffers because of its image as a hotbed of radical activities, and because the political class does not promote this music activity to overturn this rabid image." 
 
 What’s also unfortunate is that whoever has left to make it big outside, including artists like Padma awardee Pandit Chhannu Lal Mishra, have rarely looked back to uplift the village. But Ajay Mishra, who maintains his connect, says he and other senior members of the Mishra families are persisting in the hope that someone will amplify to someone who cares to listen, their musical needs. 
 
 Even today, while women in the families stay indoors, boys as young as six and 10 years accompany music troops to perform at state and national levels. Suraj Mishra, 19, a tabla proponent from the Hariharpur gharana, said, "A group of us went and won the Gold at the Indian Youth Festival in Haryana. When we returned, there wasn't so much as a murmur of acknowledgement. Around the same time, the district magistrate won a gold in some event and there was media coverage of it for three days. We also brought laurels back for our state and village, but there was no acknowledgement.” 
 
 Mishra refers to Azamgarh DM and IAS officer Suhas LY, a keen shuttler, who won the gold at the 2016 badminton Paralympic championship. But Mishra’s reference is only to highlight the governmental apathy at the hands of which the musical tradition of Hariharpur has suffered. 
 
 Ajay Mishra says he wants to see a day when the children of Hariharpur can remain home and practise music knowing they can make a respectable career of it. “Artists want respect. Here, the local SP MLA Durga Yadav expects us to be at his beck and call. Yet, when we went to invite CM Akhilesh Yadav to be a chief guest at the Azamgarh festival, Durga Yadav intervened to stop him. Hariharpur suffers because of these local animosities,” Mishra added. 
 
 . “What this village urgently needs is help with promoting the local musical tradition. There's enough talent here to take care of the rest,” Mishra said.
 
 
