SURAT: The   (SMC) authorities are upbeat as denizens here have, for the first time, heeded to the public appeal for celebrating ‘dry Holi’. 

 Official sources said that against the target of supplying additional 300 million litre of water per day (MLD), which was likely to be used by residents during Dhuleti festival on March 12, the   actually saved a phenomenal 338 MLD water. 
 
 The daily supply of potable water from eight water works in the city is pegged at around 1,100 MLD. It was expected that 1,474 MLD water will be used during   festival. 
 
 However, as per the figures provided by the hydraulic department, the supply of water on March 13 (Dhuleti) was 1,130, as against the previous day supply of 1,168 MLD, about 38 MLD less.
 
 Sources said that the civic body had taken up the ‘save water’ campaign in the city and that the messages to celebrate ‘dry holi’ was spread on the social media including whatsapp, facebook and twitter. Even alert messages to save water on Holi-Dhuleti festival was sent through the bulk SMSs on the mobiles of citizens. 
 
 “The average per capita water consumption in the city is close to 20 liters per day. Due to Holi-Dhuleti festival, we had increased the per capita consumption to 50 per liters per day. To our surprise and thanks to the support of the denizens, we did not have to supply additional 300 MLD. Above that we supplied 38 MLD less on Dhuleti day making a total saving of 338 MLD,” said additional city engineer, KH Khatwani. 
 
 He added, “If we look from the world’s perspective and the World Health Organisation’s (WHO) standard, then the Diamond City residents have helped in water securing for around two crore people around the world. We only hope that the water conservation zeal of residents continues.” 
 
 Sources said that the civic body, inspired by the support of the city residents in water conservation, have organised a seminar titled ‘role of women in water conservation’ on March 22. Some of the expert women speakers from different fields including education, research and medical background have been invited to share their views on saving water. 
 
