HYDERABAD: If you thought apathy was hard-wired into the Indian psyche, think again. The country has emerged first among 140 nations when it comes to the number of people willing to help people in need.
As many as 401 million   in 2015.The country also topped in the number of people donating money for charity (203 million) and doing volunteer work (200 million). This World Giving Index was tabulated by  , which presented its report at the ongoing   (WEF) meet in Davos.Incidentally , Andhra Pradesh chief minister N   is participating in the meet. His Telangana counterpart, though invited by WEF founder and executive chairman  , chose not to go.
 
 The survey showed that though India had the most number of people who lent a helping hand to a stranger, it was Iraq which had the highest percentage of helpful people. As many as 81% of those surveyed in the war-torn country had helped strangers in 2015. In India, this figure was 43%, up from 37% in 2014. The nation also saw 22% donating money and 21% doing volunteer work.
 
 In the final list for the three parameters combined, India stood at Rank 91 with an overall percentage of 29. Myanmar stood first with 70%, follo wed by USA, Australia, New Zealand and Sri Lanka. Turkmenistan had people devoting the most number of hours to volunteer work, followed by Myanmar and Indonesia.
 
 “The world is becoming more generous, with more people giving time, money or helping others than in the previous seven years,“ said John Low, chief executive of Charities Aid Foundation.
 
 More than half of those surveyed said they had helped a stranger in some way or the other, he added.
 
 This was the seventh World Giving Index report made by the foundation. The report was based upon data from Gallup's World View World Poll, which is an ongoing research project carried out in more than 140 countries that together represent around 96% of the world's population. In most countries surveyed, 1,000 questionnaires were completed by a representative sample of individuals living across the country .
 
