HYDERABAD: In a major bonanza for farmers in the state, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Thursday announced a financial assistance of 4000 for each acre to buy fertilisers from the financial year 2018-19. 

 At a meeting of farmers at   on Thursday, he said, "If a farmer has five acres, it costs him 20,000 to buy fertilisers, but the government will meet the expenditure". 
 
 "There is every reason for the government to provide money to farmers to buy fertilizers. We will provide money until farmers themselves come to a point where they will say they will be able to meet 50 per cent of the cost themselves," the chief minister said.
 
 This move of the government is likely to cost the state exchequer 5,000 crore to 6,000 crore. "The amount does not matter. We have already waived 17,000 crore farm loans of 36 lakh farmers. The needs of the farmers should be met and therefore the government will meet the cost of fertilizers too," he said. 
 
 To begin with, the amount will be deposited in the bank accounts of farmers in May 2018. The chief minister also told the farming community that they should conduct their own gram sabhas and buy fertilizers without the role of any middlemen.
 
 Interacting with farmers who came from various districts to thank him for waiving farm loans, the chief minister reiterated that the interest of farmers would be taken care of by the government. He pointed out that nine-hour of uninterrupted power supply was being provided to them. He said it was the commitment of the government to ensure supply of water to irrigate one crore acres in the state. Chandrasekhar Rao said all irrigation projects would be speeded up and completed.
 
 The chief minister's decision to meet the cost of fertilizers is expected to benefit 55 lakh farmers in the state. They would be able to buy 25 lakh tonnes of fertilizers with the monetary help from the government.
 
 Agriculture minister P   and Nizamabad MP K Kavitha were also present at the chief minister's meeting with farmers.
 
