PUNE: In her last days,   Das was constantly harassed by phone calls and messages, revealed the slain techie's father on Sunday . Unable to stomach the lewd, vulgar language, she blocked over a dozen phone numbers.

 “We found out through the police probe that Antara was getting many phone calls and text messages, disturbing her.Many calls came from different landlines. They tired several tricks to keep her on the line, including posing as telecallers. At first, Antara answered the calls from the landlines but she started ignoring them out of fear,“   told TOI.
 
 On the night of December 23, Antara was hacked to death on an unlit pavement, just metres from Capgemini, her place of work. A grievously wounded Antara ran into   (36) of Dapodi, who was on his motorcycle. Sinha, with help from a passerby , took Antara to a ho spital where she was declared dead on arrival. In a complaint, Sinha described the murderer as wearing T-shirt with black and blue stripes.
 
 Police arrested Bengalurubased techie Santosh Kumar Gupta on charges of conspiracy to commit murder on December 28, but are yet to find any substantial evidence in the matter.
 
 “We have been also trying to shed some light -without much success -on Santosh's professional background and other details. I am sure that the police are doing their job,“ Debananda added.
 
 In the calls Antara got from landlines, Debananda said, the caller would pose as a tele marketer to draw Antara into the conversation. They would slowly start pressing her for personal information, making her suspicious and frightening her.
 
 He said, “With so many calls coming from different landline numbers and almost all of them asking the same questions, she was very scared. I cannot divulge any more details, but more than a dozen phone numbers, both landline and cellphone, were blocked by her.“
 
 Debananda suspects Santosh had passed on Antara's number to those making these calls. Senior inspector Ram Jadhav of the Pune rural crime branch said, “There has been no breakthrough but our investigations are on. Santosh's parents came to Pune and met us four days ago. At this moment, we don't feel it is necessary to contact the Bihar police. We are doing everything to crack the case.“
 
 Earlier, on January 6, it was ascertained that Gupta was in Bengaluru at the time of murder through cellphone records and CCTV footage from his office. Police had then shifted their probe to focus on cab drivers ferrying employees in the   area and also on workers at food joints and mess near Antara's house.
 
