MARGAO: There were no pink balloons, teddy bears or pens in store for   who travelled all the way from Belagavi just to be able to cast her vote for the very first time at the 2017 assembly elections. 

 In fact it was a wasted trip for the second year physiotherapy student. 
 
 She was denied the opportunity to exercise her franchise after the voting was called off as the poll officials at the booth in Aquem, Margao, failed to follow due procedure.
 
 Fresh polling, called on short notice and her exams scheduled in the week, prevented her from staying back in the state for the re-poll that is being held on Tuesday, a working day. 
 
 The looming exams didn’t stop her and her classmates from travelling to Goa to vote, after they were granted special leave by the KLE Institute of Physiotherapy.
 
 “Most of us were first-time voters and were very excited about the prospect of casting our ballot responsibly. I had a rough idea whom to vote for and my parents also briefed me. I was hoping the re-poll would be scheduled for the next weekend but it wasn’t meant to be,” she told TOI from Belgaum, in the midst of her internal exams. 
 
 The re-poll is being held for 791 voters, 372 male and 419 female living in front of Prabhudesai Hospital, near Power House and near Damodar Society, all in Aquem. 
 
 Pravin Naik (name changed), a businessman from Aquem says he will have to juggle making important deliveries and attending an important family function on Tuesday. “It is complete injustice and very sad that we have to pay the penalty for the election officials’ carelessness. I will not waste my vote but I have a strong feeling that the voter turnout will be lower than usual,” he says. 
 
 Another resident,  , too went to the polling booth only to return after the polls were called off. “I have to make fresh arrangements to take my entire family to the polling booth. It’s quite a task,” he says.
 
 Scheduled to travel to Dharwad for work on Tuesday morning, Karen Dias, says he is now delaying his trip by an hour. “I will try and cast my vote at 7 am itself and then make a dash for it. I hope others can find the time too,” he says.
 
  Digambar Kamat doesn’t believe the voter turnout will be affected with the fresh poll being held mid-week. “They’re all educated residents and will come out to vote in large numbers,” he said.
 
 Former councilor of the ward Damodar Shirodkar too is positive of a good turnout.
 
 T B   where the re-polling will take place will not have classes for all its students from Class V to X on Tuesday, but the school’s office will remain open.
 
 
