KOCHI:   will install   in public places in order to deter people from  .
The local bodies will use funds from plan allocations or will find sponsors for the project.
 
 Each of the local bodies will be installing at least minimum 10 cameras in locations where people have been dumping waste despite repeated warnings.   standing committee has decided to install two cameras in front of  .
 
 "The area near Chambakkara Market has become a dumping yard. As soon as we remove the rubbish people dump more. That's why we have decided to install two cameras in the area. In other parts of Kochi, residents associations have installed cameras with help from sponsors. However, it has been exasperating to notice that anti-social elements cut off the wires of the cameras rendering them useless," said chairperson of the corporation health standing committee chairperson V K Minimol.
 
 Perumbavoor Municipality will install 11 cameras, Aluva 26, Tripunithura 10 and Kalamassery 40. 10 CCTVs have already been installed in Kalamassery Municipality.
 
 Aluva Municipality has included the expenditure for installing CCTVs in the plan fund for maintenance of funds. Tripunithura has invited tenders for installing cameras for Rs 3 lakh. However, not everybody is enthusiastic about the project.
 
 In the past too the local bodies had installed cameras with the help of resident associations, merchants and other sponsors to curb dumping of waste in several municipalities and Kochi Corporation. However, without any authority to monitor the functioning of the cameras or to carry out maintenance works, many CCTVs became non-functional soon after installation.
 
 "The cameras are connected to the data bank. But when people damage the wires, it gets non-functional. Lack of proper monitoring and maintenance over the years make the installation of cameras a waste of money," said Gibson Kurian, Ernakulam area officer and manager of Keltron, a major government agency in the field of installing surveillance cameras in prisons, highways and other areas.
 
 "CCTVs are not a solution to the problem of dumping waste in public. The local bodies need to take steps to reduce generating waste. Measures need to be taken for managing wastes at their source itself. To remove plastic waste or other dry waste, local bodies must start setting up collection centres in certain points instead of making workers gather the waste littered on roadsides," M S Anil Kumar, president of the Thrikkakara municipal resident associations apex council president said.
 
