She will take to the centre court and belt out a victory, eight weeks in to her pregnancy a la Serena Williams. She will wear her bump like a badge of honour like  . She will fight trolls off her teenage daughter like Shweta Bachchan Nanda. She will confess to mommy guilt but won’t give up career for it – a certain   comes to mind. She’s her own person. Above all, she’s human. She struggles, she falls, she brushes herself and gets back up. She’s not looking to be the perfect mom. She wants her space to make her mistakes and admits to them. Last, she’s unapologetic. This Mothers’ Day, we identify and award some famous mommies who are turning the notion of being a mom at its head. Because being a mom maybe a full-time job, but it’s not their only job. Here’s celebrating moms who break the norms.

 
 
 
  
 
  A world champion, an Olympic medallist and a mother to three, Mary Kom personifies a fighting spirit. In an interview to a news website she had said, “Motherhood only adds to your strength and inner peace. I want to prove that a mother of three can conquer the world.” [Source: Al Jazeera] 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  When she bought herself a big rock, she had said: “I don’t need a man in my life to have diamonds. I can own them myself.” A dictum she followed when she adopted her two daughters – Renee and Alisah. Always a doting mommy, she has planned her life around her daughters. In an interview she had said: “Don’t you dare come to me in three years and say, ‘Mum, I have found the guy’. That is just not happening. It is my turn first.” [Source: DNA]
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  Pregnant Ash, overweight Ash, not- losing-baby-weight Ash, over-protective mommy Ash – there’s no epithet that Aishwarya Rai hasn’t come across ever since she has been pregnant. But she lets things be. In an interview she said: “This is who I am and this is who I have always been – a person who is extremely comfortable in my skin. Weight gain can happen any time and it is something that you deal with anyway. It is ridiculous to have this dictate your very being. And in all my travels, I had so many women come up to me and tell me that “We are so glad that you have been yourself.” [Source: WSJ]
 
  
 
 
 
  “Why should it (link-up) take away from her [Alia’s] work? Why should any friendship take away from her hard work? Nobody is saying she is wasting her time with Sidharth (Malhotra) and coming late on the sets or going early. She loves her work, she is a confident and hard-working girl. She is a young, normal girl. When she is free, it is her choice how she spends her time. Who she goes out with is her prerogative. Why can’t she have a nice social life?”
 
  
 
 
 
  I’d be happy to spend all my time with Aazad except that I realise without work I’d begin to feel unhappy. That’s the only reason I won’t be a full-time mother, because I love my work.
 
  
 
 
 
 
  Spa owner, yoga guru, serial entrepreneur, TV host – this ‘fit’ mommy wears many hats. But it’s her de-facto-spokesperson-for-good-health hat that fits the best. Within a year after the birth of her son, Shetty was back to her svelte self and is still sticking to it after all this time. Clearly an inspiration for everyone to stop making excuses and start making time for yourself.
 
  
  
 
 
 At 53, Sridevi has to be the yummiest mummy in  . Her impeccable style can easily give any young star a run for their money. Heck, even her young daughters sometimes come up short standing side-by-side to this style and screen queen.
 
  
 
 
 
 
  Her daughter Navya Naveli has a frenzied fan following on social media. And the ‘fierce’ mommy has been fighting for her daughter’s right to be for quite some time. In her popular column, she defended that her daughter is a teen, she likes to party…so let her be. [Source: DNA]
 
  
 
  
 Before her daughter’s wedding last year, ICICI head honcho wrote a heartfelt letter to her. She wrote: “I remember the day your board exams were about to commence. I had taken leave from work so that I could take you to the examination hall myself. When you realised I was coming, you told me how you were used to going for your exams alone for so many years. It hurt me to hear you say that, but I also think in some ways, having a working mother made you much more independent from a very young age itself. You not only became independent, but also stepped into the nurturer’s role for your younger brother and never let him miss my presence. I learnt to have trust and faith in you and you have now grown into a wonderful, independent woman. I now use the same principle at work to make our growing population of younger talent take on larger responsibilities.” [Excerpted from Legacy by Sudha Menon, Random House India]
 
  
 
 
 
  Talking about her weightloss, Ambani had said her motivation was her son, Anant. “He suffers from obesity. He was highly asthmatic so we had to put him on a lot of steroids. He had to lose weight for health reasons. A child does what his mother does, so I couldn’t be seen eating while putting him on a diet. So, I went on a diet along with Anant. Whatever he ate, I ate. Whenever he exercised, I did too. If he went for a walk, I would go along. By virtue of being his mother, I lost weight.”
 
  
 
 
 
  “Don’t talk about your pregnancy.” Or “Hide that bump.” This is par for the course for all pregnant women in India. Kudos then to Kareena Kapoor Khan for deciding to be “pregnant and proud”. She wore her bump like a badge of honour and flaunted it on the ramp, the red carpet, magazine covers, chat shows and at parties. And all this being kitted out in some high-fashion looks, making the bump the most styled look of the year. Her take: “I do have a stomach and I’m big but I have a child in there and I’m carrying it proudly; I don’t want to curl up and hide.”
 
  
  
 
 
  
 That Twinkle Khanna has razor-sharp wit and acerbic humour is no longer Bollywood’s best-kept secret. Everyone’s favourite weekend voice hopes she’s a “friendly mom”. In an earlier interview, she has said: “Aarav’s friends call me ‘savage’. I believe it’s a compliment in today’s times. It sounds awful, but I believe it’s a good thing. My son says so, at least.” [Source: DNA] Always, telling it like it is.
 
  
 
 
  Ever been at the receiving end of a “but you don’t look like you have a 15-year-old kid” compliment? This forever foxy 43-year-old personifies that. With a skin that still carries the new-mommy glow and a body that refuses to quit, Arora is #goals for everyone – mommies or otherwise. Her secret: “I believe a lot of mothers forget about themselves while trying to take care of their families. I feel every woman should be a little selfish in a good way. There will always be a hundred things to do but you must remember to give some time to yourself too.”
 
  
  
 
  
  
  I don’t think women can have it all. My husband and I have been married for 34 years. And we have two daughters. And every day you have to make a decision about whether you are going to be a wife or a mother. We plan our lives meticulously so we can be decent parents. 
 
 --While speaking at the AspenIdeas Festival in Colorado
 
 
