NEW DELHI: An incident that started as a spat over a   grazing against a   turned into an ugly fight with suspected   vigilantes thrashing not only the truck drivers, but also animal transporters in seven other vehicles. The   vandalised the vehicles at Baba Haridass Nagar on Friday night and released the animals on the road.

 “The argument at Jharoda village about our truck scraping an i10 car turned ugly when the four men in the car accused us of transporting   illegally. What could we do when confronted by 50 people?” said Shaukeen Khan, 25, a resident of Nangloi. “We had 17 buffalo calves in our Bolero, which we were taking to Ghazipur to sell having purchased them in villages near Meham in Haryana. We did not have any papers with us. There are usually no transaction papers for purchases we make in rural areas.”
 
 The mob then went after all vehicles carrying buffalos, stopping and attacking seven of them going towards Ghazipur from areas like Meham, Jhajjar and Dadri in Haryana.
 
 No one has been arrested, though MN Tiwari, DCP (Outer) said that a case had been registered under the Indian Penal Code for causing hurt, theft and criminal conspiracy. “Three persons who sustained some injuries were examined and released from hospital. We are trying to establish what really took place,” said Tiwari.
 
 Khan pulled up his shirt to show injuries on his back, alleging that he and his friends had been beaten with iron rods after behind hemmed in by over 80 youngsters. “Some of them tried to inflame passions by saying we were carrying cows when they could see the animals were clearly buffalo calves,” recalled another victim, Saddam Hussain. 
 
 One of the vehicles belonged to Ali Jaan, 40, of Dasna in Ghaziabad. He suffered face injuries and two fractures on his arm and had to be admitted to Rao Tula Ram Hospital, from where he was released later. Raees Khan, his face also swollen, angrily said, “We are not doing anything illegal but constantly fear for our lives.”
 
 The victims claimed they were unable to call for help because the assaulters snatched their phones, wallets and car papers. Around 90 animals were released by the mob, and only a few had been recovered by Saturday. Some died after being injured in the melee. “Each truck owner lost around Rs 3 lakh due to the lost animals, cash theft and car damages,” said Kalu Ram, who lives in Charkhi Dadri.
 
 
 
 
 
 “We know cattle transporters have been attacked in many places in Haryana, but this is the first time something this serious happened to us in Delhi,” said a terrified Saddam Hussain, son of Ali Jaan, who was the most brutally thrashed among the transporters on Friday night. When Jaan saw the upturned trucks at Jharoda village, he told Hussain and his cousin Dilshad to hurry out and hide. Jaan ended up being tied and beaten with iron rods and sticks along with 12 others. He suffered a broken arm and multiple facial injuries.
 
 Traders usually bypass the Tikri border and prefer driving through Jharoda village. “We were only trying to save money because we are forced to pay Rs 1,000 to MCD officials and police at the border crossing,” said Shaukeen Khan.
 
 The cattle traders buy and transport non-milch buffaloes or male calves from various Haryana villages in Meham, Jhajjhar, Dadri and Sampla to sell them at the livestock market near the Ghazipur abbatoir. “These are animals the farmers want to sell legally to us,” pointed out Raees Khan, who lost buffaloes worth over Rs 70,000.
 
 Some of the villagers at the attack site blamed the “animal peddlers” for inhumane treatment of the animals and said that “they had it coming”. According to eyewitnesses, some women tried to intervene and pleaded with the youngsters to stop thrashing the transporters, but were pushed aside. The seven Tat 407 mini trucks and Maxicabs were carrying over 80 calves and buffaloes.
 
