BENGALURU: Owners of nearly 17 lakh transport vehicles, including luxury cabs and ordinary buses, are supposed to pay around Rs 50 crore as profession tax (PT) to the state government every year. But what has been collected in the last five years is a paltry Rs 6.55 lakh. 

 Having woken up to this revenue shortfall, the state government is now contemplating handing over the responsibility of collecting PT from the owners of transport vehicles (the ones which carry passengers and goods on hire) to the  . At present, PT is one of the minor taxes administered by the   department under the Karnataka Tax on Professions, Trades, Callings and Employment (KTPTCE) Act – 1976.
 
 According to the Act, the commercial taxes department is liable to collect PT of Rs 1,000 per annum from those who own a single transport vehicle and Rs 2,500 from those who own more than two transport vehicles. (However, PT is not applicable to owners of autorickshaws.)
 
 The latest Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) report has pointed out that the commercial taxes department had literally turned a blind eye to collection of PT, which resulted in non-realization of revenue to the exchequer. According to the CAG, 2,42,186 persons owned single transport vehicles and 32,950 owned more than two vehicles in the state. Of these, only 4,294 single vehicle owners and 320 multi-transport vehicle owners had enrolled with the commercial taxes department for PT. The   observed that while PT to the tune of Rs 137.11 crore should have been collected between April 2011 and March 2016, due to low-enrolment, the amount collected during the corresponding period was Rs 6.55 lakh. 
 
 The CAG also pulled up the commercial taxes department for not having made efforts to obtain information from the transport department about the owners of transport vehicles. However, the commercial taxes department expressed difficulties in locating the owners at the addresses at which the transport vehicles were registered. It was in this backdrop that the state’s additional chief secretary and commissioner of commercial taxes agreed that entrusting PT collection to transport department could be a workable solution, the report stated.
 
 When contacted, a senior transport department official said they are yet to receive a communication to this effect. “The transport vehicle segment in the state is growing at around 9% per annum and PT collection will augment revenue flow. Tracking owners of transport vehicles isn’t a big challenge for us as they have to keep coming to us to pay quarterly taxes to obtain permits and fitness certificates,” the official added.
 
 
 
 
 The KTPTCE Act states that motion picture industry personnel such as directors, actors, actresses, playback singers, recordists and film editors are liable to pay PT of Rs 2,500 per annum if they are income tax payers, and Rs 1,500 per annum if they aren’t. Cameramen and still photographers are supposed to pay Rs 900 per annum. However, the CAG has found that only 76 persons were enrolled with the commercial taxes department under the PT category though there are around 1,600 taxable persons in the film and TV industry. Potential revenue from this category is Rs 2 crore. 
 
