PATNA: Governor-cum-chancellor Ram Nath Kovind is likely to interact personally with the academics figuring in the panels submitted by search committees for the appointment of   of Veer Kunwar Singh University ( ), Ara and   (JPU), Chhapra.

 Even though chief minister Nitish Kumar and education minister   had reportedly held discussions with the governor at Raj Bhavan here on January 8, there could be no unanimity over the choice of candidates for appointment to the coveted posts. The search committees had submitted panels, each containing five names, for the posts of VCs of VKSU and JPU following their interaction with the shortlisted candidates on November 26 and December 7, respectively.
 
 It is learnt that both the chief minister and the education minister had reportedly agreed on the name of L N Mithila University pro-VC Syed Mumtazuddin for the post of VKSU VC and that of Patna-based College of Commerce, Arts and Science teacher   for the post of JPU VC. Insiders say that even RJD supremo Lalu Prasad was consulted for the appointment of JPU VC as Chhapra happens to be his all-time favourite place, socially as well as politically.
 
 “Since the chancellor did not have any clear idea about the candidates figuring in both the panels, he thought it better to personally interact with the candidates. While the interaction with the candidates for the VKSU VC will be held on January 19, that for JPU VC will be held on January 20. Final notification regarding appointment of VCs in both the universities will be made only after the chancellor’s interaction with all the candidates. The names of pro-VCs of Patna, KSD Sanskrit and Nalanda Open universities reportedly also figure in the panels and some names are common in both the panels,” said sources.
 
 The chancellor’s interaction with the candidates assumes significance in view of the fact that the chancellor had to remove as many as three VCs in the recent past owing to the charges of alleged irregularities against them. All of them had been appointed on the recommendation of the search committees constituted by the chancellor following the directive of Supreme Court in 2013.
 
 Meanwhile, the process of appointment of VCs and pro-VCs in the remaining nine universities of the state has also started with the constitution of separate search committees for all these universities. But, in all probability, the senior most professors would be asked to officiate as the VCs of their respective universities following the completion of three-year term by the present incumbents on January 31. The appointment of new VCs and pro-VCs for these universities would take some time, say the informed sources.
 
