UDUPI: National Crime Data indicates a clear rise in crimes by and against children across India in the last decade and this is a worrisome trend, averred Uma M G, member secretary,   (KSLSA). No one is born bad or as a criminal and their future is decided by environment in which a child grows up. It is therefore essential to know about children in conflict with law, those exploited by law and the helpless children, she said.

 Inaugurating a one-day workshop on role of police and people under child friendly legal services and child protection scheme 2015 organised by   on Sunday, Uma said police and people need to have due knowledge of law governing such children while handling their case. “Nearly 40% of India’s population are legally minors and tend to unwittingly tread on a path that puts them in conflict with law,” she noted.
 
 There is a need for people friendly policing system to deal with such children. Police must understand the psyche of such children in conflict with the law while questioning them. Children are indeed a nation’s future and all stakeholders must understand their respective roles in ensuring that their futures are indeed bright, thereby ensuring that the nation’s future too remains bright. This can happen when all agencies work to ensure child friendly atmosphere, she said.
 
 Referring to instances of mass backlash at sites of any major crime leading to destruction of public property, Uma said such incidents tend to destroy vital evidence that a crime scene holds. Reminding the public that this will negate the justice delivery system, Uma advised the police to take the people in to confidence at all times. The department is placing utmost importance to people friendly policing and this is in the interest of all concerned, she noted.
 
  T, principal district and sessions judge, chief guest said nearly 90,000 cases of crimes against children were registered across India in 2014-15. The police, judiciary, public and other stakeholders must contribute their mite to ensuring a child friendly atmosphere and thereby help in reduction of crimes against and by children, he suggested. Deputy Commissioner   sought cooperation of all departments in ensuring child rights.
 
 K T  , superintendent of police, who presided said the department is organising programmes on child protection every month. A separate women’s cell has been opened in every police station to quiz children in conflict with law. Nodal officers have been appointed at every stage to ensure effective implementation of various laws pertaining to children. The department will discharge its duties pertaining to child rights protection effectively, he added.
 
