NEW DELHI: The government said on Monday that consumers can continue to use debit and credit cards at petrol pumps without being charged any transaction fee even after January 13, the day till which petrol pump dealers have put off their threat to stop accepting plastic money to oppose bearing the cost.

 “Merchant discount rate (  or transaction fee) charges will be levied as per RBI guidelines but who will take the hit… banks and oil marketing companies are discussing the issue. In the coming days, a mechanism will be worked out under which customers or petrol pump owners will not bear the cost,” oil minister   told reporters after discussing the issue with finance minister  .
 
 “We had assured on Sunday that since retail outlets and petrol pump owners work as commission agents, we will not pass on the cost to them,” Pradhan added.
 
 According to   executive director (retail banking) Rajiv Anand, the banks were working closely with the oil industry to ensure that the momentum built for digital transactions can be carried forward and that customers were not inconvenienced by bearing the cost of the transaction.
 
 Axis Bank was one of the three banks — the others being   and   — which had issued a notice on Saturday, saying they will charge 1% transaction fee from Monday, and the dealers will have to bear the cost. The notice sent dealers on the warpath and they decided to stop accepting plastic money from Monday in protest.
 
 The dealers deferred their decision till January 13 after Pradhan intervened with all stakeholders, and banks put off the decision to charge the transaction fee for five days.
 
 Pradhan said the government stands by its decision that customers using non-cash digital modes of payments will not have to pay any transaction charge. Also, the 0.75% discount on digital payment for fuel will continue.
 
 Pradhan also said the government had in February last year issued a circular saying customers will not have to bear the MDR charges on digital transactions so as to help the country move towards digital transaction and lesscash economy.
 
 “We partnered with them (oil marketing companies) to quickly enable processing of crediting the 0.75% (discount) incentive announced by the government to promote digital payments.
 
 Banks have also been co-ordinating with oil companies to set up card-accepting terminals at outlets wherever required,” Anand said.
 
