KOLKATA/DARJEELING: The   leadership, faced with the prospect of arrest if it sets foot in Trinamool’s lair, is poring over the fine print of the Calcutta high court order to avoid appearing at a city court on Monday. But, since non-appearance in court, too, raises the spectre of judicial censure, the   top brass is consulting a battery of lawyers on whether or not to move the   against the HC order.

 The HC order on Wednesday asked 23 accused in the 2010 murder of Akhil Bharatiya Gorkha League leader Madan Tamang to remain present in the City Sessions Court when the latter takes up the framing of charges. The 23 include top GJM leaders, including party chief Bimal Gurung. They fear arrest in Kolkata, especially because several of them are now accused in fresh cases that have been slapped on them since the eruption of violence in the Hills from June 8.
 
 The CID has dropped broad hints that the GJM leadership implicated in recent cases may be arrested. “We are investigating the recent cases of arson and rioting and have a strong body of evidence. The law will take its own course. We are definitely looking at some tough action,” CID additional director-general Rajesh Kumar said.
 
 Sayan Dey, the GJM leaders’ counsel in the lower cou-rt, said: “I cannot say whether they will attend or not. I have received no instructions.” The GJM, too, remained non-committal. “You can understand what our stance will be, given the present condition. We are not ruling out any option. The decision of our legal team will be final,” GJM spokesperson Norbu G   said. 
 
 “We are in touch with legal experts. The matter is sub-judice and cannot be discussed at length,” GJM assistant general secretary Binay Tamang, also an accused in the Madan Tamang murder case, said. Jana Andolan Party insiders said Harka Bahadur Chetri, also implicated in the case, was likely to be in Kolkata on Monday if “his health and that of his ailing wife” permitted.
 
 A senior criminal lawyer, who was consulted in the matter, said: “Filing an appeal against the HC order in the SC to get relief will not be possible on Monday itself. The lower court will hear the discharge petitions on Monday and consider the charges. This is a legal pre-requisite before the framing of charges. But, if a person is discharged, there remains no question of framing charges at all. Moreover, over 50 people are accused in the case. The HC order covers only 23 of them. There may remain enough grounds for subsequent appeal if they are charged with contempt of court. This is what I have told them.”
 
 Another senior criminal lawyer air-dashed to Kolkata late on Saturday to help prepare the GJM defence (of not appearing in a Kolkata court). A third senior criminal lawyer, who also provided his legal opinion on the matter, said: “The anticipatory bail plea, which was allowed, was given by a coordinate bench. I have advised an appeal immediately.”
 
 The CID top brass maintained that there were several cases pending against GJM leaders and that the home department had been kept abreast about the crucial findings. “We have asked the Darjeeling police to inform us of the developments,” said an officer.
 
 
