INDORE: With board exams going to conclude,   is getting queries from students across state regarding   and   that they can take up after passing out from their school.

 Helpline counsellors are dealing with career counselling besides regular stress calls these days. CBSE students are increasingly turning up for career related queries with college admissions nearing, stated the helpline counsellors. 
 
 Calls for non-traditional career courses like merchant navy, mass communication/journalism, fashion designing, animation, ethical hacking, petrochemical engineering and many others have picked up pace. 
 
 “Students these days do not ask about regular courses like engineering and MBBS. This year more number of students are calling up and asking about unconventional courses that are latest in trend. Students want to try something new and fresh rather than opting for conventional courses,” said CBSE helpline counsellor from the city Jaydeb Kar. 
 
 The helpline is getting over 10 to 12 calls related to career queries on an average these days. Even as civil and mechanical engineering have been most preferred streams, now students are also making up their minds for off -beat engineering courses that have good job prospects. 
 
 “Maths and science students call up and ask for options other than mechanical and civil engineering. Science students also look for untouched and uncommon research based courses,” added Kar. 
 
 However, some students call up the helpline and tell their aim to be an astronaut or fashion designer and want to know more about the colleges that they can study in. In such cases the helpline counsellors ask them to concentrate on the ongoing board exams and later on focus on subjects they want to opt in college.
 
 The helpline is also dealing with a number of stress calls from students, who believe they will not be able to score well in some subjects. Many students who appeared for the CBSE Class 12 board exams found physics examination tough and lengthy, while Maths was another subject that worried many students who struggled to complete the paper on time. 
 
