NEW DELHI: Applicants looking for a credible degree in bachelors of business administration have limited choices as very few universities offer the course. With an understanding of the current demand of the market and the best ways to make a   worth its mettle,   has started its own unique course, run in association with   in the US.

 The curriculum of the course has been created in close coordination with the faculty of Samuel Curtis Johnson Graduate School of Management at Cornell University, one of the eight   Colleges of the US. This curriculum is aimed at giving quality education with a global focus that will help students compete on an international level. The course focuses on helping students understand the basics of management that prepares them for jobs and higher studies.
 
 The university also offers in-house entrepreneurship and other management programmes that are conducted by the faculty that comes from various IIMs and other leading business schools of the world. The students are given internships and relevant placements. The admission to the BBA programme at   University is on the basis of merit and an applicant is expected to have at least 60% marks in Class XII.
 
 According to Yaj Medury, the vice-chancellor of the university, Bennett has paid a lot of attention to corporate internships (applicable at the end of each year of the 3-year program). “Our sister organisation, Economic Times, helps us in reaching out to all corporate CEOs, some of whom also sit on our governing and executive body (main policy making boards of the university). They then understand what Bennett is about, advise/guide on the way forward and consequently, their top technical/HR reach out to us,” explained Medury.
 
 At present, an applicant’s other best options include a handful of Delhi University (DU) colleges, Jamia Millia Islamia and IP University. Under DU, a seat in a BBA course can be secured through the Joint Admission Test, which will start from May 31 this year. 
 
 Being a technical course, according to experts, the curriculum of the subject needs to be revised and updated to keep up with the change in industry, which happens at a much slower pace in a public university.
 
