It sure is the coolest haute restaurant to open in the past few months. And that’s not just because it’s uber stylish and housed in Asia’s largest ice factory (a part of it is still operational). It’s because it delivers personalised warmth and hospitality along with global flavours. And this is exactly what my two globetrotting gourmet guests do in their beautiful homes. In fact, when I moved from Delhi to Mumbai in 1980, my very first fabulous dinner was in the lovable couple Surinder and Rani Kapur’s gracious and sprawling SoBo villa. Rani, chairperson of India’s leading automotive component company, understands both food and hospitality to its core. As does her super-achiever daughter  , whose kids’ clothing line and about to be launched website for kid entrepreneurs, are making waves. Our review follows.

 
 
 At last, the handsome British-style business district of   has a landmark restaurant. 4,000 sq ft of high-ceilinged space with the sunlit Foyer (for lunch) and The Chamber (for dinner) charms. Ooh la la! What a transformation of the ice factory’s machine room into this sexily glamourous room spangled with unique chandeliers! Candles on each table would magnify the perfection here.
 
 
 
 We enjoy the ingredient-driven European fare with Asian influences. Kudos to Chef Nitin Kulkarni’s talent for combining and balancing flavours. Be it the finest Carpaccio with a pivotal kick of ponzu or the cod with miso. In many a dish, he ensures that one flavour, one ingredient rings clear and true, like the intense Cauliflower Soup, the Lobster Bisque served with Lobster Brioche and the Beetroot Potsticker. Non-vegetarians trip out on fleshy Kerala Oysters, robustly spiced Lamb Tacos and the delicate Arabian Seabass. Plenty for vegetarians — unique salads, baked Burrata, pumpkin gnocchi and more. 23-year-old Chef Husna Jumani’s has a must-try range of desserts. From the wickedly addictive Chocolate Chip Cookie Sandwich with peanut butter ice cream to superb cheesecake and the healthy, sugar-free and gluten-free Honey Flan.
 
 
 
 On all three visits, the Edamame Dim Sum afloat in parmesan broth met with a thumbs down. Risotto (overcooked), Mussels (some served unopened), Lobster (overload of Wasabi), Lamb Tacos (soggy shell) and the Chia seed dessert (high on health, low on taste). We could do with a better wine list.
 
 
 
 In order to evaluate  , I dined here thrice (consistency must be monitored) and each time found it rocking and being the magnet for the uber cool. A well-edited collection of dishes range from quietly appealing to quietly stunning, though some could do with fine-tuning.
 Happily, TCH puts the focus of dining where it belongs — on real hospitality and disciplined cooking — and it’s a welcome antidote to so much of the razzmatazz around town. Kudos to the hugely popular and dynamic Rishad Nathani (former partner of Indigo) for infusing the restaurant with irresistible earnestness and exuberance that explain its instant, well-deserved popularity.
 
