An M Tech student, who ran over a 72-year-old   while driving his car in an  , was arrested by the   on Monday .

 Though the accident happened on December 10, it came to light only on Monday with the arrest of 24-year-old G Prashant Kumar, a student of Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University (JNTU), Kukatpally , from his residence at Bapubagh Colony on Prenderghast Road in Secunderabad. At 5.30 am on December 10, a highly intoxicated Prashant was driving home from his friend's house at Gachibowli when he rammed his Ford Figo car (AP 10 BC 6768) into V Devadanam, who was on his morning walk near Dargah X Roads on the Old Bombay Highway .
 
 Instead of taking the in jured war veteran to a hospital, Prashant fled. It was only at 7 am that the Raidurgam police station patrol team constable, G Ganesh Kumar, arrived at the crime scene after receiving an alert from the control room. The `108' ambulance staff who arrived there declared that the victim had lost his life. But cops and the family members of the war veteran shifted him to a private hospital in Gachibowli, where he was declared brought dead.
 
 “My father, who fought for the country , lay writhing in pain on the road for more than an hour. Had the accused bothered to shift him to a hospital, he would have been with us today ,“ Devadanam's eldest son Shyam Babu, a police inspector, told TOI.
 
 As part of the investigation, police checked CCTV camera footage in the surrounding areas and found a broken piece of a car's fender liner at the crime scene. They showed the fender liner to various car mechanics and found that it belonged to a silver Ford Figo 2012 model.
 
 As the mechanics told them that a new fender liner could be obtained only at Ford service centres, cops checked various such centres in the city. They discovered that Prashant had come to the service centre in Bowenpally seeking replacement for the fender liner and other parts of the car.
 
 “Prashant told the service centre staff that his car got damaged when it fell in a crater at Kukatpally and applied for insurance claim,“ an in sed's vehicle registration number, the police arrested Prashant from his house on Monday . On interrogation, he confessed to having committed the crime.
 
 He told cops how he had left his house on December 9 evening, picked up his Intermediate classmate, a female friend, at Lifestyle Building in Begumpet, and gone to Prost Brew Pub in Jubilee Hills. They were joined there by another common female friend. After drinking liquor till the pub's closing hours, the trio went to another pub, HyLife Brewing Company in Jubilee Hills, drank and said.When the second pub also closed, the trio drove to the female friend's apartment at Gachibowli and consumed liquor till 5 am. “Despite his friends repeatedly asking Prashant not to drive in an intoxicated state, he left to reach home before his parents woke up,“ the inspector said.
 
 Police collected the bills paid by Prashant at one of the two pubs and also collected the CCTV footage. Cops also sent the seized vehicle to Forensic Science Lab (FSL) for collection of evidence.
 
 Prashant was booked under sections 304(ii) (culpable homicide not amounting to murder), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence), 202 (intentional omission to give information about an offence) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and section 185 of the Motor Vehicle Act. Prashant was sent to judicial custody on Monday .
 
 
 
 
