KOLKATA: With many of her lieutenants coming under the scanner of central investigating agencies,   wants to send out a message from the mega rally on Friday that she is going to take on the BJP over what she calls the   government's "political vendetta". 

 At the same time, the Trinamool chief, who broke the once-invincible CPM, is likely to reassure the ranks that a second generation of leaders is ready to take up the challenge. Friday's rally is also a test for Trinamool MP Abhishek Banerjee, who has been given the lead role in organising the supporters. 
 
 "This will be a day to chart a path for the new generation, for   and even India," Mamata said as she reached the Esplanade rally venue to inspect the preparations first-hand. Over the years, she has used the July 21 platform to spell out the the party's political roadmap for the year ahead. This time there won't be an exception, either. 
 
 With the party fighting at multiple fronts amid growing indications of a earlier-than-usual panchayat polls in 2018 - the first leg of a electoral battle which is likely to culminate in the 2019   polls - the TMC chief is expected to use the platform to reach out to her party workers battling an untested political adversary in an aggressive BJP. With the chief minister herself scaling up expectations, the top Trinamool leadership appeared hard-pressed with the last-minute preparations.
 
 Turnout numbers have ceased to matter in the ruling Trinamool's showpiece July 21 rally since the party came to power in 2011. On Thursday, however, the party's repeated insistence to pack Kolkata with never-before numbers was also not without reason. 
 
 Trinamool Youth Congress national president Abhishek, also the rally's organiser-in-chief, said: "Going by the response and enthusiasm of the people, we are expecting a record turnout. Every year, the rally breaks the record of the previous year. 2014's record was broken in 2015; the record turnout of 2015 was surpassed in 2016. Now, 2017 will break the record of 2016." The MP, who has winded a rigorous statewide campaign to garner support for the rally, spelt out the reasons too: "Despite the vilification campaign and propaganda, the popularity of Mamata Banerjee has not diminished by even 1%. This proves she enjoys the support of the people. People have voted for development and will continue to support her as long as she is there. The conspiracies of those who want to communally polarise Bengal will stand defeated."
 
 Abhishek added: "In a few hours, we will know what direction our party chief will spell out for us." 
 
 To make a point, on Thursday evening, the chief minister chose to visit the July 21 rally spot to inspect the last-minute preparations.
 
 
