SHAMBHU (PATIALA): Following the Supreme Court’s order to ensure there is no law and order trouble during INLD’s march to cross over to Punjab from Haryana to dig the   on Thursday, top officials of the   (MHA) met the director generals of police (DGPs) of the two states in Chandigarh on Wednesday.

  Dilip Kumar formed a coordination committee of top police officials of the two states after the meeting at Punjab Bhawan in Chandigarh. Officials, who attended the meeting, told TOI that the MHA had shown concern over escalating tension on the Punjab-Haryana border and had asked top officials of the security agencies to do “whatever it takes” to keep peace.
 
 The court’s direction to the MHA came a day before nearly 1 lakh INLD workers and leaders are expected to march from Ambala and cross the state’s border to reach Patiala for digging the disputed SYL canal. The situation has become tense after Sikh radical groups Dal Khalsa and All India Sikh Students’ Federation had said that they would not let the INLD members enter the state.
 
 During the meeting on Wednesday, plans put in place by Punjab and Haryana were also discussed. On the eve of the march, Punjab Police reinforced their first line of defence at Shambhu border, which divides Haryana’s Ambala district and Punjab’s Patiala district, by putting up more barricades, installing barbed wires all around an old bridge where a concrete wall and two steel walls have already been erected, setting up barricades along the side walls of the bridge on Ghaggar river, and installing six CCTV cameras. A small control room has also been set up near the barrier.
 
 Patiala range deputy inspector general of police (DIG) Ashish Choudhary said the AISSF or any other group would not be allowed to reach Kapoori, where they plan to dig the canal. The road connecting Devigarh and Kapoori would also be completely sealed in view of a call given by AISSF. The Sikh group plans to gather at Devigarh and later march towards Kapoori.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Punjab DGP (law and order) H S Dhillon carried out aerial survey of the border areas even as police personnel from across the state reached Chanson Haveli, a resort in Rajpura that is located on NH-1 and is midway between Ambala and Rajpura towns. Dhillon later addressed personnel at the resort.
 
 
 
 
 Punjab police deputed special teams to carry out night patrolling of the entire border. Drones were sent to a transitory control room set up at Chanson Haveli. The drones would be launched on Thursday morning to keep an eye on the situation.
 
 
 
 
 A senior police official manning the control room at Chanson Haveli said they had also brought in guns with rubber pellets along with SLRs and other ammunitions and would not desist from using them in case situation goes out of control. Riot control vehicles with automatic teargas launchers and five water cannons reached Shambhu border on Wednesday.
 
 
 
 
 These officials also started deploying large number of police personnel and para-military forces at strategic points all across the border. At Kapoori, the security agencies have planned three barricades to seal the 2.1-km single-lane road that connects this hotbed of 1982 Akali Morcha with Haryana’s Ismailpur, where the INLD had announced that they would gather after marching from Ambala’s Vegetable Market, where a rally is to be held in the morning.
 
