MUMBAI: The Maharashtra government, while renewing its   and pan masala, has removed `scented supari' from the list at least until a special committee gives its verdict. In other words,   ­ which health activists claim is just another name for   can be sold in Maharashtra.

 “The committee's report is likely within the next month or 45 days,'' said Chandrashekhar Salunke, joint commissioner (food) of the Food & Drug Administration (FDA) which notifies the ban.
 
 The state banned gutka, pan masala, chewable tobacco, zarda, among other harmful products, on health grounds in 2012. These products contain carcinogens such as tobacco and heavy metals and many studies across India have linked their use to increased incidence of oral cancer. Oral cancer accounts for over a third of all cancers in India.
 
 As per the Food Safety and Standards (Prohibition and Restriction on Sales) Regulations 2011, food products cannot contain substances that may be injurious to health. “ As per this rule, tobacco and nicotine shall not be used as ingredients in any food product.Thanks to this rule, Maharashtra has been banning gutka and pan masala every year,“ said an FDA official.
 
 In 2013, the state proactively added scented supari because it contains areca nut, which is also a known carcinogen.However, a senior government official said that scented supari cannot technically be included as per the food safety rules.“Moreover, manufacturers started petitioning the government about this. This led chief minister Devendra Fadnavis to institute a committee to look into the ban on scented supari,“ said the official.
 
 Dr Pankaj Chaturvedi from Tata Memorial Hospital, Parel, said, “This is a backdoor entry for products such as pan masala (without tobacco). The Maharashtra government had in the interest of public interest, banned scented supari.There is enough medical evidence to suggest that areca nut, which is used in suparis, is a carcinogen.“
 
 He said, “The World Health Organisation and several studies in India have proven beyond doubt that pan masala causes serious health hazards including mouth and throat cancer. All the research materials have already been submitted to the FDA several times in the last five years. Our state is bound to become a laughing stock if pan masala ban isn't continued.“
 
