HYDERABAD:   for fishermen, washing machines for  ,  ,  , power looms on subsidy for weavers,   for setting up  . These are not part of the election manifesto of any political party, but the highlights of the budget that the TRS government is slated to present in the assembly on March 10.

 In all, chief minister   is to earmark Rs 30,000 crore for the BC communities in the budget. While the BC welfare department will get Rs 12,000 crore budget, the other departments will be allotted Rs 18,000 crore for BC welfare activity.
 
 "The major thrust of the budget will be strengthening of rural economy, which will include making the traditional professions viable and dependable. In this manner, rural professions will be made self-reliant," KCR reportedly told senior officials at a brain-storming session at Pragati Bhavan two days ago.
 With BC welfare being the focus, the CM is all set to announce special schemes for them. "The state government will announce two major schemes in the budget that aim to help traditional artisans and BC communities," said a senior minister in the cabinet.
 
 So what made the TRS government go all out to lure BC castes in this budget much before the assembly elections that are scheduled for 2019? The rationale, according to sources in the ruling party and the government, is that they would get sufficient time to implement the welfare schemes and ensure that the benefits reach the BCs much before the polls are due. "If we launch such schemes in the 2018 budget, we would not get sufficient time to execute the schemes," pointed a senior official in the CMO.
 
 With this strategy, the TRS is making it clear that it is banking on the BC votes to ensure a triumphant return to power in 2019. Telangana has a very high population of BC communities compared to other states. Keeping this in mind, the TRS government will woo the numerically strong communities like Yadava, Mudiraj, Betsa, Padmasali, Viswabrahmna, Nayee Brahmana, Kummari, Medara and Rajaka in the 2017-18 budget.
 
 " Rs 4,000 crore will be spent to distribute 88 lakh lambs free of cost to the shepherd community. Another Rs 1,200 crore will be spent on giving buffaloes free to Yadavas. Rs 1,000 crore will be spent to distribute fish seed to fishermen who will also get free nets, motor bikes and Bolero vehicles to transport fish product to markets. And for the barbers, 30,000 hygienic hair-cut salons will be distributed to them on subsidy," said a senior official in the BC welfare department.
 
 "The budget this year will ensure inclusive development and will start from the villages where traditional occupations play a major role. The budget is aimed at boosting rural economy," finance minister Etala Rajender told TOI.
 
