NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court has turned down AAP functionary Ashish Khetan’s plea for   against alleged threat from “right-wing extremist organisations”.

 A bench of Justices A K Goel and U U Lalit said it was not possible for the court to pass such an order as lakhs of people would then approach for protection and no body would trust police.
 
 Khetan, who is vice-chairman of Dialogue and Development Commission of Delhi with a cabinet rank, said he was getting multiple death threats from Sanatan Sanstha and had brought it to the notice of the Centre and Delhi Police, but they refused to take any action. He said police were not lodging FIR on his complaint and pleaded that the court intervene and direct a CBI probe.
 
 Senior advocate   and lawyer Sunil Fernandes, appearing for  , however, insisted that the court should examine the petition on merit as liberal thinkers and intellectuals were being threatened from such groups, which were trying “to silence the voice of people by threats, intimidation, violence and even outright murder”. Sibal contended that the petition was not only about an individual, it concerned lots of people who were facing threats.
 
 Sibal said the apex court must take cognisance of the petition, particularly in the present “surcharged atmosphere”. 
 
 “You forget about me but there must be some guidelines to protect people facing threats from such groups,” he said.
 
 “The petitioner submits that there are right-wing extremist organisations active in the country today. Some of the prominent groups among them are Sanatan Sanstha, Abhinav Bharat, Hindu Janjagruti Samiti, Hindi Rakshak Samiti, Bajrang Dal, Durga Vahini, Sri Ram Sene and Vishwa Hindu Parishad. Such radical right-wing extremist organisations have notably in the last couple of years carried out several murderous attacks on those who do not share their ideology and those who are rationalists, secularists, free thinkers, anti-superstition and critical thinkers,” Khetan said in his petition.
 
