

 On January 2, Saswad Police Station received a complaint from a 30- year-old woman alleging that police naik, Lalit Mohite (32) had raped her. Mohite who is a police naik at   would often visit the complainant at her house in Saswad, where both of them stay. They have known each other since 2008.
 
 Mohite joined the police force in 2006 and is also a part of the   volleyball team. Prior to his posting at the Bharati Vidyapeeth police station, he used to work at the Pune police headquarters in Shivaji Nagar. While his father was a farmer, it had been Mohite’s dream to join the police force which materialised eventually, much to his parent’s happiness. Mohite, who is currently under arrest and in Yerawada jail, was charged under Section 376 (Punishment for rape) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).
 
 The duo had first met each other at Mohite’s birthday party in 2008. The complainant, who is married, has three daughters aged 13, 11 and four. After they had gotten to know each other, Mohite would visit her house, every time he was in Saswad to meet his parents. According to the complaint, he would force himself during every visit and had even promise marry in the time to come. Mohite is currently undergoing a divorce.
 
 They have met over numerous occasions since the 2008 birthday bash, where they were introduced to each other by common friends. Even after repeatedly forcing himself on her, the complainant never filed a grievance until she suspected him of being involved with another woman.
 
 A source informed that the complainant’s husband, who works in the Kirloskar Pneumatic Co Ltd in Saswad, knew about them seeing each other the whole time and still decided to keep quiet. He would in fact either leave the house or sit in the hall with his three daughters every time Mohite came home.
 
 “We arrested Mohite on Jaunary 3from Pune and brought him to Saswad for questioning. During investigation, he told us that he had been in a relationship with the complainant and that the intercourse was a mutual decision and in no way forced on her. He is currently in Yerawada jail and will be there till the court decides the next course of action for him. Commissioner of Pune Police Rashmi Shukla, has currently suspended Mohite of his duties,” reads the Saswad police station statement.
 
 
