ALWAR: A leopard was burnt alive by angry villagers after it killed a 30-year-old man at   village in   range of   on Saturday.

 The victim,  , was reportedly killed by the animal earlier in the day while he was on his way to a nearby village in Madhogarh. After his mutilated body was found, villagers gathered at the spot of his death, demanding that the leopard be captured.
 
 Sensing trouble, the forest department summoned a quick response team and armed police personnel to control the situation. The villagers then spotted the leopard atop a hill and began chasing it to kill it.
 
 When the forest authorities attempted to stop them, the mob pelted stones at the personnel, injuring at least six men. Amidst all the chaos, the officials managed to tranquilise the leopard, leaving it semi-conscious. Alwar: It dashed into a cave in a profusely-bleeding and injured state. Following this, the villagers set the cave on fire with dry logs and grass.
 
 The charred body of the leopard was later recovered and sent for autopsy.An FIR has been filed against unidentified persons, said a forest official. Rampat's body was handed over to his family after postmortem.
 
 They would be given a compensation of Rs 4 lakh, said ADM Hemandra Nagar.
 
 This is the seventh death in a leopard attack in the villages bordering the   Tiger Reserve, said STR director R S Shekhawat.
 
 Times View
 
 Rajasthan has about 25 wildlife sanctuaries and a few national parks. With an area of over 273 sq km, the Sariska Tiger Reserve in Alwar district, the first such reserve in the world, is home to a wide range of flora and fauna. The boundaries of sanctuaries and national parks are more or less defined and circumscribed to keep to minimum human-animal conflicts. The burning of a leopard by villagers resisting rescue attempts by the police and forest department following the killing of a 30-year-old man--the seventh in six months around Sariska--shows that these boundaries have not helped to keep such conflicts down. Instead, they have spiked and become a serious law and order problem. If the government doesn't prevent encroachments and take relocation of people and villages near reserves seriously, these are only bound to increase. It's high time ministries concerned woke up, chalked out a programme and implemented the same on a war footing.
 
