There was a time when Hrithik Roshan’s fit bare body staring out of a magazine would draw out a sigh. ‘What a lucky guy! Looks like that and has a dream of a body. Well, he’s privileged, he can get that fit body as he has the means and time to achieve the goal.’
 
  Not for this generation. Check your Facebook, Instagram accounts. After every two posts, you see someone on your timeline sharing a picture of his health goal, or a picture of his/her transformed enviable body, or picture posts about her challenging rope training at the gym that would have even the fittest among us go green.
  
  
 
  
  One such   enthusiast is software engineer Nitin Desai, 26, who wakes up at 5 am for pre-workout exercises and then runs 10 km every day! “I go for a spinning class too after 12 hours of office. I have increased my fitness goals. But compared to my friends, I’m still not doing enough,” he says.
  
  Welcome to the world of Fitness 2.0. A walk in the park, 15 minutes of stretching, walking the dog, or half an hour of meditation, aren’t enough. This generation talks rock climbing, sprinting, strength training, intense dance workouts, and HIIT ( ), just to name a few.
  
   , fitness expert and author of Gorgeous, says, “Fitness has gotten very competitive. The number of marathons held in India has gone up in the last decade. Forget 10 km, most people are now choosing the coveted 21 km (even as a first-timer),” says the ex-model, who’s into high-intensity workouts and has a diet intake for specific body parts (proteins for muscles, oil for brain etc.).
  
  
 
  
   , fitness expert and bodybuilder, says there’s a military-like approach to fitness right now. “Sculpting one’s body like an art form is more common than you think,” she says. Millennials have changed the game for the fitness industry. Yoga pants are the new jeans.   is the new watch. Strong is the new sexy.
  
  A while back a Les Mills Study (conducted in partnership with Nielsen), concluded that fitness is the world’s biggest sport. The research also said that millennials are “doing gym-type activities” like no other generation before them.
  
  
 
  
  The 90s pizza and Coke parties are too yesterday for a generation that has seen lifestyle diseases rise manifold, and acquired a desire to have sculpted bodies. Today, you are more likely to see soups and salad gatherings, gym brotherhood and hot yoga sisterhood.
  
  Nikita George, 24, a fitness freak with a huge following on Instagram, says, “I started working out to lose some weight, but eventually became a fitness fanatic. I realised it just made me a happier more relaxed person, and with an added benefit of getting the body I wanted. Now, my workout level has evolved to a high intensity one and I stick to it on a daily basis.”
  
  Take a hard look at people around you. Your colleagues, friends are wearing fitness apps to keep track of the number of steps they took, distance they covered. They have diet charts drawn up by apps on their smartphones, and talk about their new exercise regimen almost on a daily basis. The question isn’t ‘do you exercise?’, it’s ‘what’s your new exercise regime?’
  
  When   started blogging about her ultra-fit body and regimen, she was overwhelmed with the reaction. “Everyone wants to know what you are doing right when it comes to being fit,” she says. Fitness expert Leena Mogre says gyms are allotting more space to functional training (which strengthen muscles that help in your daily activity) as the demand to be super fit is on an all-time high. “It’s become a rage to hire a fitness coach to come to your doorstep to motivate you and work you through your fitness goals,” she adds.
  
  
 
  
  Yoga and fitness expert Abhishek Sharma says, “Fitness 2.0 is the result of an unflinching urge by this generation to push its body to the limit, coupled by innovation by fitness companies.” People follow fitness blogs and are aware of all the latest trends. Fitness is on everyone’s mind 24x7.
  
  But is it always a good thing? Weight management expert Dr Amrapali Patil is a bit wary of this super-fit approach to life. “There’s a thin line between incorporating fitness as a lifestyle and letting it become an obsession. Be careful not to go overboard.” It’s good to push the limits, but you may not want your body to become worn out before time.
  
  
