 avenged her loss in the Glasgow world championship finals to Japan's   by beating her in the final of the Korea Open Super Series to win the title 22-20, 11-21, 21-18. Okuhara struck back in less than a week by defeating Sindhu in the second round of the   Super Series. The Times of India Sportsperson of the year (TOISA) winner Sindhu spoke to the Times of India just before her latest loss to Okuhara on her engrossing rivalry with the Japanese champion, her own priorities over the coming year and the importance of taking part in domestic tournaments:

 
 
 
 I am really happy that I won the  . It wasn't an easy tournament for me. It was a tough task and at no point was it a cake walk. The hardest part about this series in Korea was the long rallies in matches, but I was completely prepared for it.
 
 
 
 
 Yes it was in one way. You can say that Korean Open was sweet revenge.
 
 
 
 
 I can't say anything, it's her decision.
 
 
 
 
 I feel that India is really doing well at the international front as far as badminton in concerned. I really hope to see many more Indian players coming up to the big stage in the coming years. Indians have improved a lot and also are really doing well so definitely in the coming years we will see more players coming up.
 
 
 
 
 Yes, definitely. After cricket, badminton has got its due recognition. More people are playing this game, which is good to see.,
 
 
 
 
 Let me tell you that it is all part and parcel of the game. You win some and you lose some. As a player, when you lose, you tend to learn more from such matches. However, I feel that players should simply believe in themselves and their ability. As a player I know that I have played my best in the last few months. However, failures are part of our career and I have learnt from every time I faltered on the court.
 
 
 
 
 Presently, we are doing quite well in badminton. Why should we even think that way of not winning gold medals for our country?
 
 
 
 
 This is an important tournament for me, just like it is for other players.Yes, I will be taking part in it. For one's growth it's crucial to take part in this tournament.
 
 
 
 
 He has been instrumental in my entire growth and for what I am today.
 
 
 
 
 I train for six days in a week for eight to ten hours of practice every day .
 
 
 
 
 It has to be maintaining my physical fitness for the coming tournaments. On the court, as a player I have to read the opponent's game and plan my strategies based on that.
 
 
