HYDERABAD: For the first time, Indian doctors have come out with a consensus statement recommending   for Indian pilgrims visiting the Islamic holy cities of   for   and Umrah.The Haj-2017 is scheduled to begin next month while Umrah (minor pilgrimage) is performed round the year during the non-Haj season.

 At present, vaccination for meningitis (meningococcal bacteria) and polio is mandatory for Indian pilgrims performing Haj or Umrah. Depending on the spurt in seasonal influenza, Saudi health authorities issue advisory on vaccination against human flu. Vaccination against pneumococcal bacteria, which cause respiratory problems including pneumonia, is not required for Indian pilgrims.
 
 But keeping in view the number of respiratory diseases transmitted or contacted during the Haj, the world's largest annual human gathering, at least 10 countries have made vaccination for pneumococcal diseases mandatory .
 
 And now, a working group for the prevention of pneumococcal diseases in Haj pilgrims came out with a “consensus recommendation for India for the use of pneumococcal vaccine in mass gatherings with special reference to Haj pilgrims“. The recommendations are also valid for  .
 
 Doctors from about a dozen hospitals across India, including seven from Hyderabad, have noted that “respiratory tract infections are preva lent among Haj pilgrims, with pneumonia being a leading cause of hospitalization.Streptococcus pneumoniae is a common pathogen isolated from patients with pneumonia and respiratory tract infections during Haj. There is a significant burden of pneumococcal disease in India, which can be prevented.“
 
 The recommendations were published in the recent issue of the Journal of Global Infectious Diseases. The Hyderabadi medical team was from Apollo Institute of Medical Sciences and Research, Care Hospital, Deccan College of Medical Sciences, Premier Hospital, Princess Durru Shehvar Children and General Hospital, New Life Hospital and Olive Hospital.
 
 The team said one-third of Haj pilgrims are considered “at risk“ of pneumococcal disease either due to age or preexisting medical conditions.
 
