BENGALURU: In an interview to TOI, E Sreedharan, known as the Metro Man of India, dubbed the government's decision to scrap the controversial steel flyover a victory of the citizens, and opined that highspeed rail connectivity to the aiprort was a better option than the metro. Sreedharan was in the city on Saturday to participate in a conference with chief minister Siddaramaiah and his cabinet. He is here to seek permission to lay railway lines through or under a dense forest region near  , which is essential for connecting Nanjangud in Karnataka to Nilambur in Kerala before takes the proposal to the Centre. Excerpts:
Can you elaborate on your meeting with the CM and the cabinet?
 
 The   is preparing a detailed project report on the 164kmlong NilamburNanjangud railway line, one-third of which will be in Karnataka. I met additional chief secretary DV Prasad, and Siddaramaiah. While there is an objection from the forest department that the survey would disrupt wildlife (in the 17-19sqkm prohibited area) near Nagarhole wildlife sanctuary, we have proposed to conduct an underground survey and build a tunnel railway line which will not affect the surface area at all.Officials from both states will meet again on March 27 to reach a conclusion.
 
 What are your thoughts on metro connectivity to the airport?
 
 I was not too happy with the proposal. In fact, the   had planned a metro link to KIA as early as 2008, which is be ing implemented now, although the track of the lines has changed. I believe that it would be more suitable to construct a high-speed rail to the airport.
 
 Did you follow the steel flyover controversy?
 
 It's a victory for the citizens.Now, compared to the steel flyover, the Metro is definitely a better option. I proposed to the   that the steel flyover be scrapped, and that they should come up with a concrete two-lane flyover and construct a metro line on top of it.This won't require felling of trees. Similar concepts are being adopted in Kochi and Thiruvananthapuram.
 
 Your remarks on  's progress?
 
 It will be of great help for the companies and people working in the IT corridor to be connected by the metro as early as possible. Financially , it would have been beneficial if the corporates along the corridors were to collaborate with BMRCL. But I am not too sure if the companies will agree to partner with BMRCL, as they will not pull out any financial profit from it.
 
