Malayali author   aka A. Sethumadhavan was in Delhi on Thursday, May 11, for the launch of his translated book 
 . 

  
  was launched by Dr   at the   in New Delhi in the presence of the writer, Sethu, himself. The launch was followed by a discussion between Dr Tharoor and Sethu, which was moderated by  , the Indian representative of the   and a prominent advocate of The  , based in Washington D.C. 
 
  Originally written in Malayalam, 
  has been translated by Catherine Thankamma. Dr Tharoor spoke about the difficulties involved in translating from the vernacular and how the artificiality of language often loses the essential emotion present in an indigenous linguistic discourse. But in the case of 
 , he said, Thankamma has done a superb job in retaining the cultural essence even in English. 
 
 During the discussion, Sethu introduced the nuances present in the book: "When Europe was bleeding, the immigrant Jews were welcomed in India with open arms and given all kinds of privileges. Then why did they go? Where are they going? The older generation was excited to get back to the promised land, although they hardly knew anything about the land, and they believed going there would be an elevation, and ascendance to the top, which in Hebrew is termed ‘Aliyah’. But the young were confused. And the whole Jewish community here suffered from a huge dilemma.” 
 
  
  provides an idea of the Indian Jewish community, especially in Kerala, who when migrated to India, were given the absolute freedom to follow their own practices. But after the formation of Israel, most of them left for the ‘promised land’, driven by an emotional fervour to return to their original soil. Dr Shashi Tharoor spoke, "The novel is actually a rather interesting depiction of the contrary poles of identity and longing. What is your identity? Is it the racial memory as it were or is it the place and the people with whom you always lived? Where is your allegiance? Where is your love and loyalty? Who commands it? These are questions embedded in the narrative of 
 . It’s a fascinating story.” 
 
 Aliyah is published by HarperCollins India and was released on April 15, 2017. 
 
 
