Tirupur: Other than accidental discharge of effluents into Noyyal River, dyeing and bleaching units here have never breached the zero liquid discharge (ZLD) norms, the Dyers Association of Tirupur (DAT) said in a statement issued after the State government convened a consultation meeting with the units in the city on Friday.

 State environmental minister KC Karuppannan and animal husbandry minister Udumalai K Radhakrishnan had attended the meeting organised by the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB).
 
 There have been allegations about effluent discharge during the rainy season, DAT president S Nagarajan said. “They are false because 18 common effluent treatment plants (CETP) and Individual ETPs here treat about 10 crore litres of effluents a day. Even if untreated effluent is released into flood water, it cannot be detected easily,” he said. DAT has about 400 textile dyeing and bleaching units under its umbrella.
 
 After a huge amount of foam was seen in Noyyal River a few days ago, there were media reports about rampant pollution, even after a CETP and its 23 members were sealed in Mudhalipalayam. “But, the foam formation was due to discharge of sewage water. Such reports will affect Tirupur’s image and the business climate,” he said.
 
 Supporting his view, Karuppannan said, “Before attending the meeting, I visited Nallamman Check Dam on Noyyal River at Vettuvapalayam, where foam was detected earlier. When we tested the total dissolved solids (TDS), it was only about 700 parts per million (PPM). If foam formation was due to effluents discharge, the TDS would have been much higher.”
 
 “By implementing ZLD norms strictly, TNPCB was able to reduce TDS content in the river. When the ban on dyeing units was imposed in 2011, TDS was about 6,000-7,000 PPM. Now, it has come down to 2,000 PPM. In fact, water from the river is now used for irrigation in Orathupalayam region and farmers there are getting a good yield,” the minister said.
 
 “However, we are not sure whether one of the member units of Eastern CETP discharged effluents unknowingly into the river. It has affected the other units also,” he added. 
 
 “If the units utilise municipal solid waste instead of firewood for producing heat energy for the process, the cost may be reduced further. If they wish to try it, the government will support them by providing waste generated in the local bodies,” he added.
 
 
