Mumbai: Lower spends by consumers following the liquidity crunch caused by   impacted   major Hindustan Unilever’s (HUL’s) third quarter sales.   reported a flat growth in its domestic consumer business at Rs 8,307 crore in a challenging December quarter of fiscal year 2017, with volumes dwindling by 4%.

 Sales from operations were marginally down to Rs 8,124 crore, even as net profit after tax grew 7% to Rs 1,038 crore buoyed by an exceptional item.
 
 At a media conference,  , MD & CEO, HUL said, “The October quarter was better than the July quarter and we were expecting this uptrend to build up till we hit the liquidity crisis in November. It will take another few months to actually gauge the impact. By the first quarter of the next fiscal, we should start seeing the pipeline correcting.”
 
 The squeeze in liquidity resulted in reduced trade pipelines and a lower consumer offtake. Performance across categories was impacted by adverse market conditions. Considering that skin cleansing, a major part of HUL’s personal care category, is well entrenched in rural areas where wholesale distribution was impacted, a steep increase in product prices led to a 3% decline in segmental revenues. Rising commodity costs also put pressure on HUL’s operating margins, which were down 70 basis points (100bps = 1 percentage point).
 
 Reacting to the uncertainty, HUL rejigged its supply chain, supported its channel partners by doubling credit and enhancing its direct distribution coverage. Despite the adverse conditions, HUL said it sustained its brand-building spends and innovation initiatives.
 
 Although demonetisation impacted the consumer purchase basket size, the frequency of shop visits increased. However, the trend of premiumisation remained intact. Barring the wholesale channel in parts of rural India, most channels, the company said, have started recovering after the initial stress.
 
 P B Balaji, CFO, HUL, said, “As trade pipelines correct, so will consumer demand. In near term, we expect market growth to improve with easing liquidity. The rise in trend in input costs is likely to continue. Our strategy continues to remain unchanged by focusing on volume growth and competitive growth.”
 
 As for rural markets, where the liquidity stress still persists, Balaji said the company is hopeful a good monsoon and kharif sowing imply that an uptrend is in sight. “We want to position our portfolio correctly in rural. Focus is to get back what we lost in trade pipelines,” he added.
 
 
