In the sternest warning after the January 23-24 police action against  , the   has said the   should not, in the guise of inquiries, harass family members of the protesters.
All police stations in the state must be informed of this judicial direction,   said on Wednesday 
 
 Hearing a writ petition filed by a physically handicapped man, who said the Arumbakkam police had booked a case of violence against his son , a college student, Justice Mahadevan said police should not summon petitioners in the guise of inquiry . He directed the government pleader to inform all police stations in   that investigators could summon to police stations only people against whom police had filed cases in connection with the projallikattu protests and not their family members who did not have anything to do with the demonstrations.
 
 An order to this effect was issued when the petition filed by Selvam came up for hearing on Wednesday . Selvam said his son Sreenivasan's name figured in an FIR police registered during the jallikattu protests. He wanted the court to direct police not to harass him in the guise of making inquiries and to specifically restrain the Arumbakkam police from summoning family members of any of protesters against whom they had filed FIRs .
 
 When police came in search of him he informed them that his son Sreenivasan was a college student and that he had gone on an NCC camp,“ Selvam said . “Though he said his son did not participate in the stir, police wanted him in the station till investigators traced his son.
 
 Selvam said police also approached the principal of the college where his son studies and inquired whether the boy was participating in the NCC camp. Selvam said it was harassment in the guise of a police probe.
 
 Several lakh students and other youngsters occupied Marina Beach in Chennai and other public spaces in towns across Tamil Nadu last week to demand the revival of jallikattu.
 
 Though their protests had earned accolades from across the nation for discipline, police launched a lathicharge on January 23 after they refused to call off the agitation even after the state government promulgated an ordinance .
 
