NAGPUR : It was a thrilling experience for young children to collectively learn about   and get closer to nature. Students and teachers from various schools of city participated enthusiastically in a nature-trail on Sunday. The bird walk was held at   under the banner of Kids for Tigers (KFT) -A Sanctuary Tiger Programme.

 KFT is an initiative of Sanctuary Asia Magazine. The purpose of the trial was to inculcate an interest for bird watching and make kids aware about different aspects of environment. The group was led by nature-enthusiast Tejinder Singh Rawal. He said, “We see so many birds around us each day but we seldom pay heed. Birds appear at the lowest rung on the ladder of food chain but its conservation largely affects the balance in nature.”
 
 Around 70 students started off their walk at 7am and surprisingly many parents and onlookers joined them. Rawal briefed them about the birds which they would probably cite. He encouraged them to spot the birds, click pictures and remember their description. Students took down notes after keen observations.
 
 Only a handful of them had been exposed to bird watching previously. Whenever a bird was spotted, Rawal explained its importance in the food chain. He also put light on its characteristics and cultural significance.
 
 The activity evoked curiosity among students as they learnt the ethics of bird watching. Rawal said, “A girl asked me if she could see some eggs of birds. I told her that one should not disturb the juvenile birds as it would draw the predator’s attention.” Kids were amazed to know about Black Drongo, a small bird which imitates and creates sound of bigger birds to scare predators.
 
 Student Nihal Rathi said, “I am truly fascinated with bird watching. I used binoculars to observe their wings. It was quite an adventure”. Another student   said, “I have been inclined towards jungle but never tried bird watching. I learnt about new varieties like Wobblers and Feeders. I wish to brush up this skill now.”
 
 Sulabha Chakravarty took charge of the event. Sanctuary Asia acknowledged Urvi Piramal’s contribution to conduct KFT activities in Nagpur.
 
