With the police seizing nearly 2,100 pirated DVDs of newly released films, including Bãhubali: The Conclusion and Pa. Pandi, the spotlight is again on Tamil cinema and  . With the Vishal-led Tamil   actively pursuing the case and calling for a strike by the entire industry from May 30. We find out if there a way in which the industry can, once and for all, rein in piracy. 

 While everyone agrees that nothing can match the experience of watching a film in the theatres, audiences complain that it’s the multiple releases and huge ticket (and snacks) costs that act as a deterrent. Rajkumar, a techie and a movie buff, says that watching a single movie costs around `120 and if there are three or four movies releasing on a weekend, not many can afford to watch all those films in the theatre. “So, people go and watch the most-hyped movie, and watch the rest in their pirated version.” Karthik V, a computer engineer and a regular movie-goer, concurs and says that the producers’ calling for an increase in ticket prices is only going to make more people go the piracy way.
 
 Sudarsan S, an anti-piracy service provider who has been working in the music and film industry for the past five years, says that as a society we have a tendency to look for freebies and cheap alternatives. Saying that high-end mobile phones play a major role in piracy, he explains, “Recording or live-streaming of video in HD quality is very easy with mobile cameras these days. There are many who resort to live-streaming while watching in a movie a theater and tens of thousands of people follow such persons and watch the movies live.”
 
 However, he feels that piracy is something that can be controlled. “While those who indulge in piracy are looking for smart technology, we are also updating ourselves. We have effective tools that can stop live-streaming on a real-time basis. There are softwares which can detect and stop pirated content and downloads within minutes of them being uploaded on the internet.” 
 While producers spend a huge amount of money on promoting their film, anti-piracy experts say that they are hesitant to spend money when it comes to engaging the services of anti-piracy technicians. 
 
 Though one may not become a crorepati by live-streaming movies or uploading it on  , the websites that host pirated content make millions, say experts. It’s as good as a parallel industry and it’s the producers who are badly hit, they say.
 
 A police officer on condition of anonymity says, “There is a huge demand for Tamil movies abroad and in most of the occasions, movies are released simultaneously in India and abroad. But due to the time zone difference and also release days, in countries like the US and Australia, the movie releases one day early. People who watch the shows there record the movie using mobile phones and later upload it online. This pirated content is downloaded from websites and converted to DVDs here.”
 
 Sudarsan agrees and says that most of the pirated content is uploaded from outside India, making it difficult to take action. However, it’s not impossible to act upon this issue, he adds. “While blocking such sites may be the immediate solution, pirates can come up with similar sites as buying a domain name doesn’t cost much. However, suspending the IP has a long-term impact, since changing the server and its content is not an easy task even for those who thrive on piracy.” 
 
 Citing the example of how the makers of   issued a notice to nearly 200 internet service providers (ISPs) warning them of consequences if pirated content was hosted/downloaded through them, Venkat Subha, actor and film consultant says, “Today, even if you give proxy names for pirated content, using visual matching techniques, one can stop hosting, downloading and streaming of pirated content.”
 
 Saying that the Information and Broadcasting ministry can block ISPs who allow pirated content on their platform, he says, “We lack consensus and the will to curb the issue. Government can detect and block not only the sites that host such content, but can even blacklist the ISP. But no one is pushing them to act in that direction since data is big business and major ISPs make huge money through data. There’s a huge population out there who download and watch pirated content and they use high volume of data, which is actually filling the ISPs’ coffers.”
 
 Actress Rohini, who is awaiting the release of her directorial venture, Appavin Meesai, says, “Tamil cinema is known for its technicians. The need of the hour is to engage such a technical crew right when a movie goes into production so that they can handle the anti-piracy part effectively.”
 
 Venkat adds, “Instead of depending on outsiders, the cinema industry should sit down and discuss the issue. Now, there are streaming sites that are airing movies on their sites. Such portals function on a revenue-sharing basis and only a meagre percentage is given to the producer. Instead of creating wealth for them, at the national or at the regional level, the film industry could create a channel for producers. People can then download or watch this content for a nominal fee, just like how they do on the streaming sites.” Observing that there’s always a surge in data purchase by mobile phone users during the release of big movies, he says, “It’s a misconception that there won’t be takers for paid content. Slowly and surely, people will start buying original content.”
 
 
