HYDERABAD: After it got a Swachh Survekshan ranking of 22, the   ( ) has decided to take up a swachh survey in each circle. The civic body's aim is to maintain cleanliness at the grassroots level in a bid to improve its rank next year. 

 The GHMC will post the local survey result on its website and will forward the ranking to the government, officials said.
 
 Officials also said they will purchase 500 swachh auto tippers (SATs) which will collect garbage from households and dump it at transfer points. The decision was taken after GHMC commissioner B   held meetings with the zonal commissioners at the head office. 
 
 Assistant medical officers for health (AMOHs) shall ensure the payment of 50 (user charges given by residents) to operators of the swachh auto tippers and tri-cycles who collect garbage from households. Currently, there are 2,000 swachh auto tippers in the city, out of which only 1,480 perform their duties regularly. This results in several garbage bins overflowing and lying unattended for days in several parts of the city. 
 
 The issue was brought to the notice of the GHMC commissioner by the health and sanitation wing officials. The civic chief ordered officials to keep a tab on auto drivers who do not attend to their duties and to take action against those who do not turn up for more 10 days. He also directed officials to send notices to such drivers and remove them from the service if required. 
 
 "Apart from purchasing the autos, there is a need to hire good auto drivers," the commissioner said in a statement.
 
 The civic body will also reduce the number of garbage bins wherever feasible and remove old and damaged bins. "Reduction of bins will improve the sanitation and cleanliness of the city. We are also planning to paint the scheduled lifting time on the bins," said Dr  , chief medical officer for health.
 
 The number of transfer stations will be increased and the urban biodiversity department of the GHMC will plant more bins near transfer stations.
 
 Officials said the civic body is aiming to transfer only the 'complete segregated' waste to   landfill site. "About 100% segregation will be achieved by June 5," the GHMC said in a statement.
 
