CHENNAI: On a day when AIADMK general secretary VK   paraded the MLAs holed up at the Golden Bay resorts in Mamallapuram and claimed that they were free, chief minister O Panneerselvam dared her to let the legislators return to their constituencies.

 Speaking to reporters, moments after Sasikala’s recorded speech to the MLAs at the resort was broadcast, the chief minister said, “A few of the MLAs contacted and told me that there are four goondas guarding each one of them. They are surrounded and tortured. They cannot get out,” he said.
 
 “Instead of shedding crocodile tears and claiming that they are free, she (Sasikala) should let them go back to their homes,” Panneerselvam said.
 
 On day five of his standoff against Sasikala, Panneerselvam added more numbers to his supporter ranks, with not less than six MPs visiting him on Sunday. Lok Sabha members RP Marutharajaa of Perambalur, B Senguttuvan of Vellore, J Jeyasingh Thiyagaraj Natterjee of Thoothukudi, R Parthipan of Theni, S Rajendran of Villupuram and Rajya Sabha member R Lakshmanan, visited the Panneerselvam residence on Greenways Road and extended their support. Members of the film fraternity like actor Ramarajan and actor/producer Manobala too extended support for the chief minister.
 
 During his press conference, Panneerselvam also trolled Sasikala by equating her 'antics' to those of Tamil film comedian Vadivelu.
 
 “Will any person, male or female, refer to themselves as Singam (lioness)?,” Panneerselvam asked, referring to Sasikala's speech to the MLAs. “This is like the comedy scene where Vadivelu gets on a police jeep and announces that he is being taken to jail,” he said, leaving his supporters in splits.
 
 Panneerselvam, when asked why he had not used his powers as the state’'s home minister to enter the resort complex at Koovathur, said that such an intervention would create unnecessary problems. He followed it up by raising doubts over the frequency of Sasikala’s trips to Koovathur.
 
 He said that Sasikala holding multiple press conferences was remarkable. “Amma (Jayalalithaa) was hospitalised for 75 days. None of us were allowed to see her. She was the only one who had access. Did she (Sasikala) speak to the media at least once then to clear the air about Amma's health?”
 
 Panneerselvam said that Sasikala disliked anyone getting closer to Jayalalithaa. “Everyone (Jaya's wellwishers) was kept away. Amma should not be kind to anyone. She could not bear listening to Amma saying a few affectionate words to anyone,” he said.
 
 He added that Sasikala engineered dissent between Jayalalithaa and her loyalists over the years. “I too faced such difficulties but I did not breathe a word about it. It was because Amma never had a critical word to say about me,” he said.
 
 Panneerselvam added that after Jayalalithaa allowed Sasikala back into her Poes Garden residence in 2012, four months after expelling her, the late party chief had instructed her party men to not interact with Sasikala.
 
 
