NEW DELHI: Having decided to reach out afresh to the common masses following the reversals in the municipal elections, chief minister   used Thursday’s campaign meant to apprise rural populations about the benefits of land pooling to also gain villagers’ support for his government.

 At Chhawla, when the crowd asked Kejriwal to enhance the compensation for the acquisition of their land by the government, the AAP leader told them that he had raised the rates many times over from the current Rs 53 lakh per acre to Rs 1-3.5 crore in 2015. “But the lieutenant governor rejected the new rates,” Kejriwal said. “Now I will go to the LG again and seek the revision of circle rates for agricultural land.”
 
 AAP had indeed passed the proposal on the enhanced rates in the 2015 Delhi budget, but the notification had been quashed later for having bypassed the approval of the LG. 
 
 Even as the farmers then waited expectantly to learn about the benefits they would get from pooling their land for development projects, Kejriwal spent just five minutes talking to them about it. “We had to struggle a lot to make your demand of land pooling a reality but I have finally delivered on my promise that I would do this by May,” he said. Urban development minister Satyendra Jain had announced last week that 89 villages would be declared development areas within a week.
 
 Kejriwal did not elaborate on the land-pooling policy or its implementation, choosing simply to say that “land pooling will be good for economic growth of the villages and will also help generate jobs.” Instead, he appealed to their rural sentiments and recalled that both  , Delhi’s first CM, and Saheb Singh Verma, former BJP CM, had come from rural Delhi. “Chaudhry Brahm Prakash did not want half powers for Delhi, he wanted full statehood for Delhi,” Kejriwal declared.
 
 In a similar vein, he hailed his own party for giving  , party MLA from rural Najafgarh, a place in the Delhi cabinet. “You have been asking me about new buses. Now the transport minister is from rural Delhi and he will address your concerns,” Kejriwal said.
 
 The CM’s brief stop at Chhawla was part of Kejriwal’s rapid outreach programme in the rural constituencies of Matiala and Najafgarh on Thursday. He started from Nawada and stopped for about 15 minutes at Chhawla. He later visited the villages of Rewla Khanpur, Paprawat, Pandwala Kalan, Kahadkadi Jatmal and Kheda Dabar. 
 
 
