BENGALURU: The mammoth funding Flipkart has raised has made sure that the winner in Indian e-commerce will not be decided any time soon. Rival   has only grown stronger in the past two years, with greater financial commitments from the parent company. 

  is struggling and is expected to be sold soon, but Alibaba, China's largest e-commerce player, has invested close to a billion dollars in  , which has an e-commerce market place, and is looking to see how it can make an impact in this space.
 
 This makes it a three-way fight in the near term. And with large venture capital and private equity funds and technology companies -including  , Alibaba, Tencent, eBay , Tiger Global and DST Global -invested deeply into the space, Indian customers can perhaps expect some more years of mollycoddling.
 
 "Now the war is between Amazon, Alibaba and a conglomerate of funds that want to compete with the American and Chinese e-commerce leaders for the Indian turf," said Kashyap Deorah, a former entrepreneur, who wrote a book on the industry, The Golden Tap: The Inside Story of Hyper Funded Indian Startups.
 
 Some recent data on the Indian e-commerce market may not look encouraging. E-commerce consultancy RedSeer estimates that the market grew to just $14.7 billion during the first three months of 2017, compared to $14 billion in the first three months of 2016.
 
 That's a 5% growth. But VCs, consultants and retail experts that TOI spoke to said Flip kart's latest funding shows that global investors are confident about the depth of the Indian e-commerce market. "Indian e-commerce will probably see two market leaders rather than be a monopoly. 
 
 It is big and unorganised for any single player to dominate in the near future," said a venture capital investor, requesting that he not be named.
 
 In several big markets, a single player dominates -in the US, there's none that comes anywhere close to Amazon, and in China, Alibaba rules.
 
 Kerry Rice, a senior analyst on internet and digital media at New York-based investment bank Needham & Company, said the additional funding for Flipkart and partnerships should help the e-tailer sustain its leading market share, "but we are so early in the game that it's hard to call a winner out yet". He said ultimately the winner has to get the three components of e-commerce right: platform, logistics, and payments.
 
 The venture capitalist quoted earlier said that there was a lot of negativity around the ecommerce sector in the past 15 months and this Flipkart funding would cheer up the industry and entrepreneurs. "There were a lot of investors on the fence who were not clear about their India motivations, but a news like this will spur them on.The macro environment is also looking more stable and even at a lower valuation, this will send a strong signal to everyone in the ecosystem," said Vinod Murali, CEO of Innoven Capital India, an investor in Snapdeal.
 
 Will the funding unnerve Amazon?  , CEO at  , and Rice of Needham said Amazon was unlikely to be perturbed.
 
