NAGPUR: This summer, passengers alighting or boarding trains at Nagpur railway station will be a little more comfortable thanks to a misting system being installed at three platforms.

 Central Railway divisional railway manager (DRM)   told TOI the misting system was being installed on Platform 1, 2 and 3. It will emit a fine spray of water that would instantly vaporize in the air by absorbing heat from atmosphere bringing down the air temperature 5 to 6 degree Celsius in the process. 
 
 “The engineering department has completed most of the work and we expect it to be commissioned early next month. The tiny water droplets emitted by it absorb heat, making people comfortable,” said Gupta. 
 
 Being installed at the cost of Rs20 lakh, the system will cover the area between foot-over-bridges (FOBs) on Wardha and Itarsi ends. Besides, it will also provide cool breeze for passengers at open waiting hall on west side, where once there was parcel office.
 
 This will be the first misting system across the   having five divisions — Mumbai, Pune, Solapur, Bhusawal and Nagpur. Such a system already exists at Raipur and Gondia stations of   (SECR).
 
 “There is a plan to set up misting system at Solapur station but work on it has not yet started,” said engineering department officials.
 
 It is like drip irrigation installed overhead. A small pipe has been laid beneath the platform ceiling. It has copper spray nozzles at 1.5 metre intervals. It will be fed by high pressure pumping water tanks. Under pressure the nozzles will emit water that would be atomized enabling it to turn into vapour instantly by taking in latent heat from the hot summer air.
 
 “At least 4,000 litres of water will be consumed if used from 10am to 6pm when the temperature is high. Platform number 2 & 3 will be connected to one switch while Platform 1 to another. Since the droplets vaporize before reaching the floor they would not wet anything or make floor slippery," said railway officials.
 
 Zonal Railway Users’ Consultative Committee (ZRUCC) member   said the issue had figured in DRUCC meeting held on March 9.
 
 Shukla hailed the Central Railway move saying during the summer, passengers faced tough time waiting for trains at the station. “Especially, in Nagpur it is too hot in April, May and June. The system will give some relief to passengers. It should be installed at other platforms too,” he said.
 
