Mumbai: Activists have threatened to lodge a complaint with the Anti-Corruption Bureau for criminal misconduct against chief minster   and PWD minister Eknath Shinde, if   on the   is not withdrawn in 15 days.

 Ideal Road Builder (IRB) Ltd had bagged the contract for maintenance and repairs of the expressway for 15 years by paying a lumpsum of Rs 918 crore. Activists claimed the toll operator had collected an amount in excess of the target in November 2016 itself, whereas the contract period was till August 2019.
 
 Besides Fadnavis and Shinde, the notice has also been served on R L Mopalwar, vice-chairman and managing director of MSRDC, seeking revocation of the contractors’ right to collect toll on the E-way.
 
 Activist Sanjay Shirodkar said, “IRB Ltd have collected toll of Rs 2,880 crore till November 2016 as against its projection of Rs 2,869 crore by 2018. Now is the time for the state government to fulfil its pre-election promise of abolition of toll on the Mumbai-Pune Expressway too.” Activist Pravin Wategaonkar said, “Failure to act within 15 days would make these people collectively liable for prosecution for criminal misconduct under the Prevention of Corruption Act. We will move the ACB to register a case for misappropriation of government funds.” His associate Shrinivas Ghanekar said, “By not revoking toll, the state government is directly supporting the contractor for reasons best known to them.”
 
 They said in Kolhapur, toll had been scrapped but the government is compensating the operators for loss of income. In case of Mumbai-Pune Expressway, the toll collection figures clearly indicate that there is no loss suffered by the contractor. Hence, there is no reason why the toll should continue.
 
 Mopalwar said, “Committee appointed by the state government for toll waiver had said there is no buy-back or termination clause in the contract signed with the toll operator. However, the chief minister has asked the advocate-general to examine if the contract can be terminated without any legal or financial cost to the state.” However, activists claimed the buy-back clause did not exist in any contract elsewhere in the state where toll has been scrapped. Wategaonkar said, “PPP projects executed in a fair and transparent manner will in fact increase confidence. Foul practices in toll contracts across the country have boosted crony capitalism. Thousands of people feel fleeced by the operators.”
 
 An IRB spokesperson said, “We reiterate that toll collection on Mumbai-Pune Expressway is in line with the prevailing concession agreement. It is a well-known fact that such long-term projects need almost eight to nine years to break even. Hence, assuming that the project’s recovery is already done is completely wrong.”
 
 
