PUNE/MUMBAI: Eleven people, including six from Mulund, one from Thane and one from Vasai, were killed when their minibus collided with a truck at Urali-Kanchan near Pune early on Saturday. 

 Those from Mulund have been identified as the husband-wife duo Vijay Kale (58) and Jyoti Kale (52); the Chavan family—Jaywant (48), his wife Yogita (44) and Revati (13), and Yogesh Lokhande (28). The Thane resident has been identified Kavita Gite (28) and the one from Vasai was Shailaja Pandit (68). Two of the deceased— Pradeep Avchat (49) and wife Sulabha Avchat—were from Junnar near Pune and the driver of the bus, Ketan Pawar (29), who too was killed, was a Solapur resident. 
 
 The group had hired the 17-seater bus on Friday night to go to Akkalkot in Solapur district. Inspector Bandopant Kondubheri of Loni Kalbhor police station said, “The driver of the bus lost control over the vehicle and hit a wild boar. The bus then collided with a truck that was in the opposite lane and headed towards Pune from Solapur. The incident occurred behind Uruli Kanchan police chowkey near  , about 32km from Pune.”
 
 A neighbour of the Kales, Naagmani Hanchate, said that the couple had no children. They had a business at Vashi’s APMC market and a shop in Mulund. The Chavan family, meanwhile, is survived by their son, Herambh (18), who is in Kolhapur pursuing engineering studies. A local grocer who had suggested to the Chavans to go to Akkalkot said, “Since I have been there, I told them I will not go this time. They all were happy and chatted with me last night. It was terrible when I heard about the accident. Jaywant was a vegetable vendor and his daughter Rewati was in class VIII.”
 
 Rajendra, Jaywant’s elder brother, who stays in the same building, said, “We came to know about the accident at 10am when a mediaperson came asking about my brother. Our oldest brother has gone to to get the bodies. Herambh has also reached to the hospital.” 
 
 The truck driver, Amol Gaikwad, and cleaner, Sachin Sutar, both from Solapur, are injured. The police had a tough time extricating the bodies. The incident threw traffic out of gear for more than an hour on the Pune-Solapur Highway. 
 
 
