CHANDIGARH: A former judge of Punjab and Haryana high court, Justice   will depose before the special CBI judge in Delhi regarding a criminal case against DGP   in the kidnapping and disappearance case of a businessman. Saini is now posted as the chairman of  .

 Justice Bhalla was the counsel for Vinod Kumar, now missing, and his family members in 1994. He is also said to be the one who saw the police party taking the missing persons.
 
 Justice Bhalla retired in March 2016 after serving as the HC judge for around 12 years. Prior to his elevation as the judge, he was a practi sing lawyer at the Punjab and Haryana high court and had contested the said case.His statement was also recorded by the investigation agency.
 
 Justice Bhalla would now depose on February 9 before special CBI judge M K Nagpal at the Tis Hazari court in New Delhi.
 
 “Summons issued to Justice   (since retired) and one other witness   for February 9, 2017 are stated to have been served. However, the witness Rajesh @ Chhotu sum moned for February 10, 2017 is reported to have expired.In view of the above, the name of the witness Rajesh is directed to be deleted from the list of witnesses. Public prosecutor for CBI submits that the examination of Justice Rajiv Bhalla scheduled for February 9, 2017 may take some time and may even spread over to February 10,“ observed the judge in his January 24 orders.
 
 In January 2007, a special CBI court Delhi had framed charges against DGP Saini and three other police offici als accused of wrongful detention and disappearance of two businessmen in Punjab in 1995.
 
 Charges were framed under sections 120B (criminal conspiracy), 364 (abduction) and sections 340, 342 and 343 (wrongful confinement) of the IPC.
 
 According to the chargesheet, Saini had a personal grudge against some relatives, and had allegedly sought assistance from victim Vinod Kumar and his family members, who were financing Saini Motors, run by the relatives. When Kumar refused to do so, Saini allegedly got him and his brother-inlaw implicated in a false case of financial misappropriation in 1994, had them picked up along with their driver and illegally detained, after which they disappeared.
 
