CHANDIGARH: Upset over the poor state board Class X  , in which over 40% students failed, chief minister Captain   has asked education minister Aruna Choudhary to prepare a blueprint on how to improve the education system in the state.

 “The education system is in a shambles. We have today seen that so many students failing in the Class X exam and just 24 students out of lakhs achieving distinction,” said Amarinder, while speaking to industrialists at   on Tuesday.
 
 “I spoke to the education minister in the morning and asked her to give a report in a week on how we can improve things. We will also try to mobilize resources wherever possible,” he said.
 
 He added, “As I often say, there is nothing wrong with the system, it is how the system works. Former PM Manmohan Singh studied in a small government school and former Punjab chief secretary Lakhanpal too had his education in a government school. It is nothing to do with the schools but how they are run. And why have they come down to this point. What are we going to do about the 50% who have failed, besides those who have not made it to the top?”
 
 Amarinder referred to   at Patiala and said every student there was hired in the campus placements. “I know this as I was on the board of trustees of the university. These are sort of things we have to have. An effort needs to be made on our part within our financial framework to improve education and health. That is the future,” he said.
 
 The chief minister said what is invested in the education sector today will not give instant results but will bring returns a few years down the line. “While we crackdown on the drug industry, we need to ensure that we can get the youth educated enough to get them good jobs,” he said.
 
 Around 57% students of Class X passed the exam conducted by the Punjab School Education Board (PSEB), the results of which were declared on Monday. Nearly 3.3 lakh students had appeared in the examination, of which 1.9 lakh students passed the exam, while 45,734 students failed and 94,271 students are to reappear soon.
 
 Earlier, former PHD chamber president R K Saboo too underlined the need to improve the state of affairs of government schools in the state.
 
 
