PUNE: “I have accompanied my husband to all public functions. I regularly organize ‘haldi-kumkum’ and cultural programmes for women in our locality. Every Independence Day, I’m present at the flag-hoisting ceremony organized by my husband. This should make it clear that I’m an active and successful social worker. So please vote for me,” said one candidate contesting from a ward on Satara Road.

 This is not a unique situation. Scores of other woman candidates are figurative shadows of their husbands. With no political identity of their own, they are in election fray only to protect the seats for their husbands, who cannot contest due to reservations — 50% of the municipal seats have been set aside for women.
 
 Nearly 80% of the woman candidates are wives of sitting or former corporators. The others are daughters, sisters or daughters-in-law of politicians. A mere 5% are genuine candidates with no political background. All they have is a desire to change the society through politics. 
 
 “The reservation is being used by male politicians to protect their fiefdom. This was prevalent in rural areas, but the trend is catching on in cities with educated men adopting such tactics. Surprisingly, educated women are allowing themselves to be used as stooges,” observed Bhim Raskar of  . 
 
 “Parties don’t want vocal woman corporators,” said a woman who was denied a ticket this time.” The men have yet to come to terms with the fact that women have equal rights and are equally capable. I raised voice on many issues and even questioned the decisions made by leaders. As a consequence, they made me sit at home and instead, nominated the wife of a city unit official. If I speak out against this in open, they will ensure I get expelled from the party,” she said, requesting anonymity.
 
 Former mayor and   leader   admitted that women have yet to make serious inroads into the political arena. She said there are very few women who are independent thinkers and want to make it big. As things stand now, Bhosale added, even if a woman has the potential, she still is expected to make way for her husband.
 
 Nowhere is this more evident than in the lists of nominations from various parties. A few outspoken woman corporators have made way to their husbands; they are missing from action. Ironically, a few women who have never been in the limelight have now emerged as “social workers”, apparently with their husbands’ blessings.
 
 Vandana Chavan, Rajya Sabha MP and city unit chief of NCP, points out how she has thrived in politics for decades without any sort of godfather. The former mayor added that she is taking steps to ensure strong woman leaders with the right credentials are supported, and not those who can only boats of familial ties to party leaders. It may be recalled that NCP’s decision not to offer nomination to Reshma, the wife of MLC Anil Bhosale, caused her to shift allegiances to BJP.
 
 
