KANPUR: Despite hectic  , players did not miss offering Friday prayers. They reached nearest mosque to offer Friday 'Namaz'. The coming in of the players took the people by extreme surprise. They could not believe that the IPL stars offered Namaz with them. This led to congregation of cricket buffs around the players who also did not disappoint them and got selfies clicked with them. 

 Gujarat Lions player and senior cricketer Irfan Pathan headed to a mosque inside police lines in Civil Lines, around one kilometers away from hotel Landmark where the teams are staying. Irfan became part of the Friday congregation and offered Namaz. When people noticed him, they reached close to him to get selfies clicked with him. Irfan also did not disappoint his fans and smilingly got the selfies clicked. The securitymen around Irfan remained on their toes and somehow managed to take back the cricketer to the hotel. 
 
 When Irfan had checked in Hotel Landmark on Monday, he was spotted along with his wife who was clad in a 'Burqa'. This is not for the first time that Irfan had come out of hotel to offer Namaz in a Masjid. During his earlier visits when he was part of team India, Irfan had then gone to a local mosque to offer Friday Namaz. 
 
 Similarly, Afghanistan players, Mohammad Nabi and Rashid Khan who are part of   reached 'Musafir Khane Wali Masjid' in Parade area close to hotel Landmark to offer Friday Namaz. Initially, locals could not recognise Nabi and Rashid but later when some of the cricket fans noticed them they reached close to the players and got selfies clicked. Earlier, the two   offered Namaz with Kanpur locals. 
 
 Clad in White Pathani suit, Mohammad Nabi did not disappoint those who were present there. He stood there for a while and allowed them to click pictures. Some of the fans hand-shaked with him. Here also the security personnels had a tough time in managing the crowd. Soon after offering Namaz, Nabi and Rashid were asscorted to the car and driven back to the hotel safetly.
 
 People who were lucky enough to spend time with the two players, shared their selfies on social media and sought reactions from their friends and peers. 
 
