PATNA: The weatherman’s announcement that the   in Bihar is gone, might have proved music to the ears of many, especially the elderly, but doctors warn that these are dangerous times for changing weather conditions can spawn a host of illnesses if you don’t take precautions.

 While ice-cream carts have again become a common sight at Mauryalok, Boring Road roundabout and other city junctions in the evening, doctors advise against instant switch-over to heat-relieving options like fans, airconditioners, ice-cream, cold drinks etc.
 
 “There has been a sudden increase in cases of cough and cold coming to me during the last few days. One major reason is, ice-cream. Parents must not fulfill their children’s demand for ice-cream for at least a few more days,” said peditrician Dr Gautam Kishore.
 
 The doctor explained the maximum and minimum temperatures these days fluctuate a lot. For instance, it may feel hot when you go to sleep in the night, but it’s relatively cold early in the morning.
 
 “If you sleep with a fan switched on, it will naturally add to the cold in morning hours and cause cough and cold,” Dr Kishore said, adding the elderly and children are more vulnerable because their immune system is weak.
 
 The prescription? People, especially senior citizens and children, must continue to cover themselves with at least light warm clothes for a few more days.
 
 Allergic reactions are also quite common in this weather, said Dr Manoj Kumar Sinha, medical superintendent of the New Gardiner Road Hospital.
 
 “No doubt, the number of patients at our hospital has gone up by 10-15% ever since the weather conditions started changing from severe cold to tolerable cold to almost summer,” Dr Sinha said, adding diabetic patients needed to be extra cautious in such times.
 
 According to Dr Sinha, diabetic patients should cover themselves well while going for walks. ‘Discipline, diet and medicine’, is the mantra for them, he said and added others also must avoid drastic changes in their lifestyle as summer approaches.
 
 Doctors also say bikers should continue to wear a windcheater or a jacket while riding their two wheelers. Summer is the conducive time for the growth of bacteria and, as such, unused food should be kept in the refrigerator, not in the kitchen or on the dining table, cautioned Dr Ajay Kumar, senior vice-president of the Bihar chapter of Indian Medical Association.
 
 Asthmatic patients should wear mask to protect themselves from dust in this season. Sunglasses should also be opted for as they provide a shield for eyes against against dust and heat, said the IMA functionary.
 
 
