JALANDHAR: Opposing expected move to appoint   MP   as   chief, over two dozen office-bearers of Aam Aadmi Party’s different overseas units have written a letter to party supremo Arvind Kejriwal not to force this decision on party MLAs from Punjab.
 
 “There have been rumblings that Bhagwant Mann is bidding for the position of convener in Punjab. If there is any truth to it then we, Overseas NRI team members and office holders, unanimously reject this move. This will be the most regressive and damaging move by the party and will have irreparable consequences,” said the letter sent by 25 office-bearers from the US, Canada, Europe, Australia and New Zealand.
 
 Notably, Mann had criticized the central leadership and blamed it for defeat in the party after which Delhi-based AAP leaders started efforts to placate him. Party MLAs have already been called to Delhi on May 8 and Mann’s appointment is expected in the meeting. Notably AAP Punjab convener Gurpreet Singh Waraich has already gone on record saying that there was lack of unity in Punjab unit and there was a race for the post of state convener.
 
 “Despite being a major campaigner for the party in the 2017 elections in Panjab, the people have overwhelmingly rejected him and perceive him as a liability,” they said. Terming him a “narcissist”, the NRI office-bearers of the party alleged that he was less focused on the wellbeing of his constituents and was in a non-stop campaigning mode for himself and had campaigned consistently against other prominent leaders of AAP Punjab unit.
 
 Claiming that his desperation to become CM of Punjab was obvious to volunteers, public and this cost the party dear in Punjab elections they alleged that entire world was aware of his personal habits through his videos. 
 
 “He also created his own NRI team that toes his line and continuously attacked hard working ground level volunteers calling them names like sold, traitors etc,” they alleged asking Kejriwal that Mann should continue his role as MP and focus on his constituency. They also urged that focus should be in Gurdaspur by-election in place of reorganization.
 
 “We the overseas team recognize HS Phoolka, Kanwar Sandhu, Sukhpal Khaira, Aman Arora and other MLAs as the stalwarts of the Punjab AAP team and future state decisions and national decisions should be made in the presence of these individuals. People of Punjab and Overseas Punjabis would like to see, all future Punjab related meetings should be held in Punjab,” the letter added.
 
 Speaking to TOI on phone Bhavjit Singh, media coordinator of AAP NSW, Australia, who is also among the signatories of the letter, said that NRI supporters and party office-bearers would keep a close watch on the happening in state unit. “Already wrong policies have damaged the party in Punjab despite the overwhelming support from NRIs and from now on wrong decision would be strongly opposed,” he said.
 
