Yesterday, a young man was murdered in broadlight at   square. Day before yesterday, there were instances of chain snatching and a girl was pushed in   by a thwarted admirer. These are not stand-alone cases; there have been many such cases in the past couple of months that have made people wary, with a fear lurking in their hearts. We track the tale of crime saga...

 
 
 In the past one month, people have been alarmed with the reports of a mad man on the prowl, who has attacked women and eventually killed them. Till date, he has not been caught and it has made city women vulnerable to his designs.
 
 
 
 When we contacted the Commissioner of Police,  , he said, “The man is actually a psychopath and already the CID personnel and special branch men are at work to trap him. I’m quite sure, he will be caught soon. It’s a work in progress.”
 
 
 
 Recently, instances of chain snatching have also been reported from various parts of the city. CP says that many steps are being taken to curb such instances. He adds, “Compared to 2015, the cases of chain snatching were less in 2016, but with increased vigil, we will tackle the anti-social elements soon.”
 
 
 
 One factor that can help the cops in nipping the violence on streets is installation of video cameras at almost all the strategic and busy squares at West High Court Road. But, they are not functional yet. CP assures, “There is some back-end work pending at Shankar Nagar. But I have been assured that the cameras will be installed at all the busy squares even before September — the deadline given for the work.”
 
 
 
 CP reveals that a lot of behind-the-scenes work is being done by his team to ensure that crime rate is minimalised. “We are screening the records of the known criminals and legal process is being considered minutely to ensure that culprits get maximum punishment,” he adds.
 
 
 
 There is one piece of news that is heartening amidst all this chaos. Maharashtra’s first Bharosa cell, set up in the city, giving complete support to women who need the help of the cops, psychologists, doctors and well as lawyers under one roof, has got an overwhelming response. “More than 197 women approached the cell, which was set up one month ago. And that is good news,” says CP.
 
 
 
 Dr Venkatesh says, “We need people’s support and cooperation to keep the city safe for all. Just call on 100 in emergency or to report a criminal activity and one of our mobile vans would reach you in 10 minutes. For non-emergency, WhatsApp on 8055472422 and help will reach you soon enough.”
 
