NEW DELHI: Railway authorities believe   caused the derailment of the   which left 41 passengers dead and 50 injured on Saturday night. 

 This is the third big rail accident in two months and took place in Andhra Pradesh’s   district, near the Odisha border — a region that’s a Maoist stronghold. 
 
 The latest mishap marks a major worry for Rail Bhavan as authorities are already probing suspected ISI-Naxal involvement in the last two derailments — that of   on November 20 in which 
  and the Ajmer-Sealdah Express on December 28 in which 
  , both near Kanpur. 
 
 One of the accused arrested by Bihar police has confessed to 
  . In the Hirakhand Express mishap, railway authorities suspect the tracks were tampered with, leading to derailment of nine coaches. “The area is known to be a Naxal zone and there was a call for celebrating Shahid Divas. Foul play cannot be ruled out,” an official said.
 
 The official added that a goods train had passed through the same tracks at 10.05 pm, a patrol team had checked the tracks at 10.40 pm before another train passed through at 10.52 pm. The accident took place at 11.15 pm. 
 
 “The train driver and guard are safe and fine. They heard a big cracker-like sound just before the derailment and felt no huge jerk,” the official said. Another official ruled out track fracture as the area is not very cold compared to north India. Normally, track fractures happen in places which witness extreme cold and warm weather alternately. 
 
 Divisional railway manager (DRM) of Waltair Chandralekha Mukherjee said, “We are not ruling out any possibility. It is surprising that both the tracks were broken. The shape of the breakage is also irregular.” 
 
 Three major accidents due to derailment in two months, killing around 190 passengers, pose a major security challenge to the state-run transporter with a vast network of 65,000km. Rail officials were concerned about the rising number of mishaps due to “sabotage” and said top security agencies must take the lead in securing the vast rail network. 
 
 The rise in accidents due to derailment since April last year compared to 2015-16 has raised serious questions over the lack of funding and 
  in the  . There were 68 derailment cases since April last year while it was 52 in the corresponding period in 2015-16. An official said there was a need to take a serious relook at safety of railway infrastructure. He argued that technology alone couldn’t be the solution and there should be frequent inspection of rail tracks, recruitment of more gangmen and regular safety audits. The transporter has also decided to speed up replacement of old ICF coaches with German-made Linke Hofmann Busch (LHB) coaches which are equipped with advanced couplers and anti-climbing features. These prevent coaches from piling on top of each other in case of accidents and also prevent crumpling.
 
