Nagpur: Citizens and experts fear that NMC services will be severely hit with the new system of one ward with four corporators. If history is anything to go by, they may be right. Citizens had a bad experience of one ward with three corporators in the 2002-2007 regime and, to some extent, in the existing system of ward with three corporators. The new system, brought in by the BJP-Sena government across the state, is going to benefit major political parties like BJP, Congress and BSP. Already, BJP, that is ruling the NMC for two consecutive terms, has a slight advantage over Congress due to its rule at the centre and state and also a slew of developmental projects planned by union minister for road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari and chief minister Devendra Fadnavis. Unfortunately, the NMC administration is yet to begin the process to adopt and set its administrative system as per the new ward system. Even as he defended the decision, BJP city president Sudhakar Kohle admitted that services may be hit in case disputes arise between four corporators of one ward. “Corporators should avoid misunderstandings. Then there will be no problems. There are various advantages in the four-member ward system. Each ward will have a corporator of a particular caste so can he or she can deal with issues related to the respective community. Each ward to also comprise of two male and two female corporators,” he said. Kohle added that even a common worker in the political party will get chance to contest the election in the new system. Stating that the new ward system a big setback for citizens and city, Congress city president Vikas Thakre said Congress found out ways to tackle the system and ensure good services to the citizens. “We have appointed office-bearers even at the ward level. There are teams under each ward-level chief. All these office bearers will work in election and afterwards, irrespective of whether our candidate wins or not,” he said. Gajanan Pande, president of Akhil Bhartiya Grahak Panchayat, city chapter, said there are other drawbacks of the new system. “It is anti-democratic and going to be a big loss for the citizens. We have seen how corporators pass the buck on each other in the current system. This will increase in the new system,” he said. Citing an example, Pande said even a minor complaint against encroachment does not get solved due to conflicts between two corporators in one ward. “I reside in Hiwri Nagar ward that is represented by a NCP and BJP corporator. Citizens demanded removal of an illegal meat shop and some more encroachments. One corporator supported it and the other one opposed. The problem still exists,” he said. Condemning the new system, social activist Ashok Lanjewar said that there should have been only one corporator, even at the cost of increasing the size of wards. “One assembly constituency is taken care of by one MLA. Similar formula should have been planned. There are always chances of disputes with multiple corporators,” he said. Union leader at NMC, Jammu Anand, said the new system will ‘increase corruption and offer ways to the administration to neglect services and complaints.’ “It will be an election of muscle and money power. Later on, powerful corporators will ensure approval and execution of works and dominate the other corporators in the same ward. Citizens will be forced to run from one corporator to the other,” he said. Municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar said the general body had approved new Establishment Schedule (staffing pattern) and submitted for the state government’s approval. “Improvement of administrative set up is a regular process. But new staffing pattern will make a big change. We have proposed to increase the number of zones to 13 from existing 10. Everything does not depend on administrative set-up but on making everyone realize their responsibilities,” he said.