A 37-year-old   has been arrested for allegedly   and assaulting a woman working as a maid at his house.

 The techie stays at an apartment in  .The woman, who was working as a   at his house for the last four years, stopped working there as he allegedly misbehaved with her daughter.
 
 In order to look after her family as she was the sole bread winner, she started working at another flat in the same apartment complex. Frustrated over this, the techie is said to have assaulted her and warned her to stop entering the apartment complex. Following her complaint, the Marathahalli police have arrested the techie, who is a native of Kerala.
 
 The 35-year-old victim resides at Kariyammana Agrahara along with her daughter and other family members. The family is from Mandya. She works as a domestic help at a flat in in Marathahalli police limits.The police have identified the techie as Joyce John.
 
 “I was working in the techie's flat as a full-time maid. I would also take my daughter to the house to help me with my daily chores. However, under the pretext of teaching computers to my daughter, he showed her some objectionable content, after which we stopped going to work since October last year. The same was also reported to the committee,“ the victim told Bangalore Mirror.
 
 After quitting the job, she started working on a parttime basis at another flat in the same apartment building. The victim has alleged she was receiving constant threats from John not to be seen in the apartment building.
 
 However, she found sup port in the owner of the new place she was working parttime at the apartments.
 
 “Since I am the sole bread winner, I had to work. I work only in the evenings at the new flat. Before I worked in the techie's house, another maid had faced a problem as she was accused of house theft and a police complaint was also registered in that regard. Knowing about it, I did not want to work there. But his family convinced me and had assured me of no problems from their side. After my daughter faced a problem, I realised his intentions and stopped working there.
 
 However, last Thursday, he became violent while I was going to the new owner's flat. The techie pulled me by my sari and pushed me to the ground. He then beat me with a stone and started abusing me. He even threatened to murder me, if I was seen there again,“ she alleged.
 
 Then the woman went to a nearby hospital and underwent treatment for the injuries inflicted allegedly by John. She filed the complaint the next day with the help of some persons she knew.
 
 “The techie was arrested and has been released on bail. He has been booked for assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty (IPC 354), wrongful restraint (IPC 341), voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means (IPC 324) and criminal intimidation (IPC 506),“ said an officer part of investigations.
 
