MADURAI: The   of the Madras high court on Tuesday directed the state’s home secretary to consider a representation seeking one month ordinary leave to P Ravi alias Ravichandran, life convict in the former Prime Minister   assassination case, in two weeks. 

 The division bench of justices M M Sundresh and N Sathishkumar gave this direction on a petition filed by Ravi’s mother, P Rajeswari. Before that the petitioner’s counsel T   told the court that the petitioner’s son has been in jail for more than 25 years since January 5, 1992.
 
 The petitioner had already approached the court seeking leave to her son to solve a property dispute. The court on December 21, 2011 passed an order directing the home secretary to grant ordinary leave to him at least for a period of 15 days. Against that order, the superintendent of prison filed an appeal. After a year, the court in November 2012 dismissed the appeal and granted 15 days of ordinary leave to him with condition that he should not give any interview to the press, electronic media, or to any journalists of any magazine and should not meet or interact with any office-bearers or people belonging to any banned outfits or any other banned organisations.
 
 The petitioner’s son duly followed the condition. But the local police misunderstood the order of the court and refused to allow him to move from the petitioner’s home, due to which the property dispute is still pending. Thereafter, the petitioner sent a representation in 2013 and 2014 to the government seeking further leave. 
 
 On September 1, 2014 the home secretary (prison) passed an order rejecting the petitioner’s claim by saying that as per rule 22 (3) of the   Suspension of Sentence Rule, 1982 the prisoner would be granted second spell of leave after the completion of two years of imprisonment from the date on which he returns from the last ordinary leave. The two years of imprisonment got over on December 10, 2014. The petitioner’s son is eligible to be granted ordinary leave for one month. 
 
 Meanwhile, the state government sent a letter to the central government stating that it passed a resolution to release seven life convicted prisoners including the petitioner’s son in the Rajiv Gandhi case. Against it, the central government filed a case before the apex court which in turn referred the case to the constitutional bench. The said case is pending for the past three years without any outcome.
 
 Besides, as per the government order the prisoners who completed the actual imprisonment of 20 years are eligible to be released on premature release. But, it was not considered in the case of the petitioner’s son, the counsel said.
 
 Following it, the petitioner submitted a representation on March 17, this year. But, there was no action on it. Following it, the bench directed to consider the petitioner’s representation in two weeks and adjourned the case by three weeks.
 
