AURANGABAD: The civic body’s   on Thursday carried out a  ,  , between Ghati Parisar and Barapulla Gate.

 The drive — conducted amid tight security — was undertaken to give the congested locality a new look ahead of city’s inspection by Central government’s special team under the Swachh Bharat Mission.
 
 The authorities demolished about 10 structures erected on footpaths and roadside space. Owners of eateries and medicine shop had built structures near the main entrance of the   and Hospital. Some of them had occupied significant portion of the main road that was leading to traffic congestion. All these illegal structures were razed to the ground.
 
 Senior officer in the anti-encroachment department Sudhir Kulkarni said the demolition was part of the drive to the make the city clean under Swachh Bharat Mission. “The civic body is targeting unauthorised structures built on foot paths and roads,” he said.
 
 Kulkarni said the drive would continue for the next 10-15 days. Another AMC officer, on condition of anonymity, said similar drives would be implemented all over the city. “All ward officers have been directed to make the footpaths free from encroachments. We are vacating the space of footpath to streamline traffic besides giving a new look to the spot,” he said.
 
 The civic body has also planned to clean footpaths on strategic locations. The authorities are demolishing hawker platforms from various footpaths. It should be noted that shopkeepers and hawkers occupy the space immediately after the drive is over.
 
 Recently, the AMC had proposed to destroy belongings of vendors if they are found occupying roads. However, when placed before the general body, the proposal was rejected.
 
 Earlier in November, the AMC demolished the markings on 33 residential plots in gut no. 33 owned by unidentified people and levelled the land, which falls under green zone.
 
 The civic authorities had also demolished four under-construction households in Naregaon area as the owners were building it without the permission of the municipal body. The reclamation of the government land near Harsul — reportedly sold by unknown persons — was also completed without any resistance as no one came forward to claim the plots.
 
