Tamil Nadu has been one of main tourist destinations among both, the domestic and foreign travellers, for its several temples, monuments, food and culture. And   is definitely one of the must-go places in every south-bound traveller’s itinerary. But the recent incident of the alleged   of a German tourist at this shore town has come as a shock to many. While police investigations are on, we speak to locals, tourists and some officials at  , and ask them how this would affect the livelihood of the many local artisans and vendors, and the impact this incident would have on tourism.

 
 To some extent, the tourists themselves should behave responsibly to ensure their safety, say a few foreigners who have come here on vacation. Karien Liz, a German national, who has been in Mahabs for the last couple of weeks, says that she takes every possible measure to ensure that she is always safe. “This is my second visit to India. Therefore, I am familiar with the way I should behave and dress when I step outside my hotel room. Most importantly, when I step out here, I wear only Indian clothes like a salwar and kurta. I know that I shouldn’t walk around here the way I do when I am in Europe, wearing short dresses. It isn’t just about safety, it’s always better to dress according to the culture of the place you are travelling to. This makes it easier to build a rapport with the locals and once you do that, they will never treat you like, ‘Oh, she is a foreigner!’” 
 Echoing Karien’s thoughts are two other tourists — Anne Charlotte, a Frenchwoman, and Arabel from Scotland. “The only thing my folks told me to do was to ‘dress properly’, when I told them I was travelling to India because they often read about crimes that happen in India through media. Also, it’s better not to travel alone. Actually, I came to India alone, but at Puducherry, I met Anne and we decided to continue our travel together.” 
 We reached Mamallapuram on Tuesday morning. We were informed about the rape of a   by an auto driver and he cautioned us to be safe while we were here,” says Arabel. Also, it feels safer to be back in the hotel room before 9pm here, adds Anne. 
 
 
 Locals, too, sound concerns, saying sometimes these foreign tourists become to free with youngsters who loiter around here. “The presence of peddlers in and around Mahabs is an open secret. That’s the case in most of the tourist places. And the fact is that some of these tourists get friendly with these peddlers and later have altercations, which lead to other crimes,” says Saravanan, a shopkeeper near Pancha Rathas. 
 Agreeing with Saravanan, on condition of anonymity, a restaurateur from the Othavadai Street says that there are so many unauthorised activities that happen these days in Mahabs. “You come on a weekend and see what all happens here. In the last one decade, the number of youngsters who come from the neighbouring places is so high because of the presence of many colleges and IT offices along the Old   Road. They come here and indulge in all sorts of illegal things. And of course, there are peddlers and one gets whatever he wants here. There are also other unauthorised things like surfing and boating that happen here. Many youngsters come for surfing just with the intention of hanging around with the foreign tourists. Also, the unauthorised boating here without any lifejackets, it’s an accident waiting to happen,” he rants and adds, “It’s also high time the officials checked how many restaurants have authorised licenses. Who knows what all they serve?”
 
 
 “I have been coming to Mahabs on and off for the last 20 years. So, I know how the place quite well. Every time I come here, I mostly stay at the fishermen’s village here. I always felt a kind of secure feeling staying here. But of late, even in the mornings, I see a lot of youngsters indulging in drinking and hooliganism. Things are obviously worse after dusk,” says Simone, a French lady. Another shopkeeper near Pancha Rathas, Loganathan, says, “After the place was declared a heritage site by UNESCO, there has been an uncontrollable increase in number of domestic tourists as well. So, during the peak season, it becomes difficult for the officials to keep a check on all the tourists which leads to several issues. However, this is the first time I heard about such a big crime like rape being reported at Mamallapuram. Earlier, a decade or two ago, foreign tourists would even roam around in their swimming suits. But untoward incidents never occurred then.”
 
 
 Now, the question is the effect of this incident on tourist inflow. “Of course, it will affect the next tourist season. At a time when anything that happens anywhere in the world is there on the internet, people would definitely read about this online. So, if such incidents happen, it will definitely affect the inflow of the tourists. Now, the tourist season is almost over and next one starts by September. So, we will have to wait and see the effect of this incident,” says Loganathan.
 
 
 According to the officials at the Tourist Office in Mamallapuram, this particular incident happened at a place which is several kilometers away from the main town. “This incident happened at Pattipulam which is almost 7kms from the main town. There are only certain locations which come under our purview and this place doesn’t. However, one of us visited the place with the cops. Generally, we go on rounds to the sites which come under our purview and check if the tourists have any issues. If we face issues that are beyond our control, we also seek the help of cops,” says one of them on condition of anonymity. Meanwhile, R Kumar Asirvatham, managing director, Fly Albatross Travel & Tours (P). Ltd, says, “Safety of our clients is our first priority. Therefore, as soon as they arrive here, they are given an advisory on what to and what not to do. They are given a detailed itinerary of their tour and each group is provided with a tour leader.” 
 
