The Royal Indian Navy (RIN) ships in Bombay harbour had mutinied. Trade unions had declared a general strike. It was a terrific crisis,” recites Mervyn Jones, a former member of the Communist Party of Great Britain. “I felt I must go to Bombay and see what’s going on, I’ll never forgive myself if I missed this historic event.”

 Jones’ voice, sourced from an archival recording in London’s  , sends visitors spiralling back in time to February 18, 1946. It was on this day that a   was declared on HMIS Talwar, a signal training establishment of the RIN in Colaba. Over the next six days, 10,000   ratings took charge of 66 ships and naval establishments, the city’s industrial workers joined the strike and 200-odd people were killed when the British Empire used its might to quell the insurrection. 
 
 This historic incident – widely considered a failure—is the inspiration for ‘Meanings of Failed Action: Insurrection 1946’, which will open today at the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Vastu Sangrahalaya. The piece de resistance is a 40ft-long boat, which doubles up as a performance space—visitors listen to archival and contemporary recordings while sitting in a metal box designed to resemble the hold of a ship. These include eyewitness and participant interviews interspersed with the sound of anchors, fog horns and explosions. 
 
 “It’s a major incident, which no one knows anything about,” says cultural theorist Ashish Rajadhyaksha, who collaborated with artist   on the project. He explains that since the narrative of the freedom struggle is largely framed by the Congress, any incident that’s not within its ideology is effectively “written out”. 
 
 The 40-minute soundwork by British artist   throws light on the Congress’ stand on the mutiny (now re-named an   by the navy and memorialized on Wodehouse Road). “India’s major political parties are at that time preoccupied with the 1946 Cabinet Mission, which has come to India to discuss the terms of Independence with the Congress and Muslim League,” explains the brochure. In fact, when the mutineers approach   for support, he advises them to surrender promising that the Congress will ensure they aren’t victimized. 
 
 But despite these assurances, 300 ‘ringleaders’ are incarcerated in a camp in Mulund where they continued to hold hunger strikes to demand humane treatment. By this time, however, the mutiny has largely faded from newspaper headlines. The   refrains from pinpointing a single reason for the uprising presenting instead a range of motives including a desire to partake in the freedom struggle and resentment fanned by the favourable treatment given to British officers and seamen. 
 
 The artists’ painstaking research is apparent in the hundreds of newspaper reports on the incident that have been constructed into a wall mural. Telegrams, books published at the time, a painting of the mutiny and a photograph of dead bodies piled up at Fort’s   during the insurrection are also on display. 
 
 
