PATNA: After the success of Gyandeep Book Bank, an initiative to donate books to underprivileged kids, Rishikesh Narayan Singh would start ‘roti bank’ to ensure that needy people in state capital do not sleep hungry.

 Rishikesh, who runs a community school, Gyanshala, for the underprivileged kids in Adalatganj locality, said the ‘roti bank’ would start from June 15. “Right now, we are approaching people to be a part of this campaign. In a week, we got more than 50 people who have expressed their interest to help the needy. Our initiative is to collect fresh meal from their household and deliver it to people who cannot afford to buy food. We will start from Ashok Rajpath to Station Road area and our target is to feed 100 people every day. It is not only my dream, but a team effort of 21 people who are associated with my voluntary organization. The members will check freshness and quality of the food. They also take up the task to deliver the food to the target locations,” said Rishikesh.
 
 They have planned to cover the people residing on footpath, outside the railway station, temples and hospitals. They are planning to distribute the meal between 8pm and 9pm.
 
 Rishikesh said they have launched a helpline number so that interested people can become a part of this initiative and donate fresh meal. “If anybody wants to contribute to the ‘roti bank’, they can call or WhatsApp on 7050209999. Our members will go and collect the food. We will accept only fresh food. One has to fill a simple form and become a member first as only registered members can donate food. We will also promote this initiative on social media sites to attract more audience,” he said.
 
 Rishikesh, however, said registration is mandatory so that they can trace the source of food packet in case of any problem like food poisoning, etc. “Private schools have supported our first initiative and they will extend their help, too. We will speak to school authorities and keep a box at different cradles for collection of rotis from students. We will encourage students not to throw their lunch but donate it for the needy people,” he said.
 
 Talking about his first initiative, Rishikesh said they have so far collected 8,000 books from private schools and individuals in Patna. “So far, we have donated more than 4,000 books to the community schools across the state. I hope this initiative will also be successful. Many people have offered their help,” he said.
 
 
