KOLKATA: A complaint with   night from a prominent Prince   led cops to rush to the spot. The complainant claimed he was assaulted for protesting against  . What followed was a written complaint. The police probe, though, found that the genesis of the problem lay somewhere else.

 But, they have reasons to worry. “Initially, we thought the case to be an important one and even alerted Lalbazar. Illegal bike parking in the city is a major issue during Pujas,“ said a senior officer.
 
 Supratim Pal, a resident of Earle Street near  , has decided to visit pandals only in the morning. “ At night, it becomes impossible to come out of the house. The two-wheeler owners, who visit the adjoining Maddox Square Puja, park their vehicles in front of our main door,“ he told TOI.
 
 A little ahead, another resident of Tilak Road adjoining the Deshapriya Park Puja said things became worse after midnight. “The cops are happy that there is no illegal parking on the main Rashbehari Avenue. Only we know how difficult it is to walk down our road,“ she said.
 
 The incident at Anandapur on Monday where a club secretary got booked for “obstructing the flow of traffic“ is a case in point. While cops insisted that it was a case of contravening a high court order of not putting up gates, the club members said the blockade was to stop bikers from using the alley to park vehicles before visiting Pujas in the area.
 
 With the   on the main road especially near all Puja pandals, misery has struck upon those living in the alleys surrounding big-ticket Pujas. Several residents are finding it difficult to even come out of their homes, with all the alleys being used by bikers as illegal parking zones.
 
 Swapan Chatterjee, a resident of Rabindranath Tagore Road, an alley between James Long Sarani and Diamond Harbour Road, is finding it difficult to enter his house as bikers are parking their twowheelers in the alley and are walking off to queue up at the SB Park Puja at Panchanantala on DH Road. “The Puja committee has made restrictions on the car movement of the residents of the area but what about these bikers from outside who are parking their vehicles outside our homes? Even if we ask them, they refuse to move their bikes and the Puja committee says it's not their headache. What are we supposed to do?“ asked Chatterjee, a retired government employee.
 
 Residents living in alleys near popular Pujas like those on Ramakanto Bose Street near Bagbajar Sarbojonin, Hidaram Banerjee Lane near Santosh Mitra Square and New Ballygunge Road near Bosepukur Sitalamandir have been facing similar problems since Saturday evening.
 
 The housing societies like CIT Abasan in Ultadanga and Maniktala and ODRC and Government Railway Colony in Behala near Ajanta Cinema are also being used as parking zones for bikes. “The cops have banned parking on the entire stretch of James Long Sarani. I looked for a parking spot but found none. So, I parked the bike inside the government housing estate near 29 Pally Durga Puja on James Long Sarani,“ said Suman Das, a Kasba resident.
 
