CHANDIGARH: On an application moved by   assassination case accused   seeking mercy killing, the jail authorities have informed the court that though they had got the permission from the administrator to take him out of jail for an MRI on May 12 but could not do so as home minister   was in the city. The court of additional sessions judge J S Sidhu on Wednesday again directed the jail authorities to fix a date before taking permission from UT Administrator in this regard. The matter will now come up for hearing on July 13

 Tara had alleged apathy on the part of the jail authorities with regard to his severe back pain and had asked for euthanasia. He had written a letter to the additional sessions judge and pleaded for mercy killing. The letter dated March 16 read that he hads been suffering from severe back pain for the past eight months and it was becoming non-bearable with each passing day. He accused the jail authorities of not giving him proper attention and medical treatment.
 
 With regard to his application, the jail authorities had earlier informed the court that a board of doctors from the GMCH, Sector 32, had been constituted and under their supervision the ultrasound and other tests of Tara had been done inside the jail. It also informed the court that an application had ben moved asking the administration that Tara be exempted from section 268 of the CrPC for one day so that he could be taken out of jail for his MRI.
 
 As far as the trial is concerned, the statement of   of the CBI A P Singh was recorded. He stated that he was serving as DSP in New Delhi when the incident happened. He further said that Tara had confessed that they purchased an ambassador car on August 20, 1995, for Rs 30,000 and on August 24 ,1995, he, along with Paramjit Singh Bheora, went to Chandigarh on the instructions of Jagtar Singh Hawara. Thereafter they, along with Dilawar Singh, Balwant Singh and Jagtar Singh Hawara, went to Patiala to collect some explosive substance. It was also recorded that they hatched a conspiracy to kill Beant Singh.
 
 The trial in this case is about to get over as of the 248 witnesses only two are remaining, Dr Lalji, DNA expert, and DSP, CBI, A K Chandra.
 
 
