BHUBANESWAR: Desperate times call for desperate measures. To prevent   that is largely triggered by mahua flower collection in   under Mahanadi wildlife division, the authorities have planned proper collection of the forest produce.   are used to make  . 

 Traditionally, the mahua flowers are collected from the ground in March-April when they fall from the tree automatically. But, the shedding of leaves from the trees cover the flowers and the villagers burn them to separate the flowers, which are not affected by the fire. This practice causes massive fire in the forests, prompting authorities to form fire prevention squads. 
 
 Divisional forest officer (Mahanadi division) Anshu Pragyan Das said apart from forming a woman squad of forest personnel to monitor the women mahua collectors, they have trained the villagers to use large nets to fix them under the trees so that the flowers fall on them. 
 
 "We have trained the villagers to collect the flowers before shedding of leaves. This won't require setting the forest on fire."
 
 To check spread of fire, the authorities have planned to create a fire line to break the continuation. "The dry leaves will be swept and kept at a gap of around 10ft. The gathered leaves will then be burnt in the presence of forest personnel," Das said.
 
 Besides, water tankers will be stationed at vulnerable pockets such as areas adjoining human habitations. Other fire-fighting machines will also be used to help douse fire. 
 
 Official sources said they will use the service of   (EDC) members, who are selected villagers to help forest department conserve wildlife and forest, to spread awareness among people not to burn dry leaves for collecting mahua flowers. 
 
 Another reason of forest fire is accidental which results from reckless use of cigarettes and matchsticks by villagers and tourists. The sanctuary has high terrains and once fire spreads, it becomes difficult for forest personnel to venture into the forest. Also, it is not possible to seek help of fire tenders as they can't access the area, said a senior wildlife officer. 
 
