 today released the first official teaser trailer for Ava DuVernay's adaptation of Madeleine L'Engle's 1963 fantasy book ' ' at D23 Expo. 

 'A Wrinkle in Time' follows Meg Murry, her brother and her best friend as they cross space in an attempt to find her missing father, a physicist with some extraordinary information. 
 
  
  
 
 The movie features young actress Storm Reid as Meg Murray,   as Mrs Whatsit, Mindy Kaling as Mrs Who,   as Mrs Which and Chris Pine as Dr Alex Murray. Cast of the film including Witherspoon, Winfrey, Kaling, Reid and Pine were all on stage alongside DuVernay to talk about the movie. 
 
 "The thing that attracted me to the project is that I saw myself in it. I saw so many different people in it," said DuVernay, best known for her   King Jr drama 'Selma'. Head of Production from Disney's live action studio Sean Bailey introduced the cast and launched the trailer. 
 
 Winfrey, who was inducted as a Disney Legend at the event yesterday, is reteaming with DuVernay after "Selma". 
 
 "I had not read the book, either. When Ava mentioned it to me and told me it was a character who is one of the wisest women in the universe and is an angelic celestial being who is going to get to wear amazing costumes and work with Reese and Mindy as a part of the Misses team, who wouldn't say yes to that?!" the 63-year-old star said. 
 
 Bailey congratulated Pine on the success of 'Wonder Woman'. Pine, 36, said he was interested in the role because of DuVernay. 
 
 "This happens a lot. These things are about chemistry and alchemy. Sometimes it works and sometimes it doesn't. Within five minutes of meting Ava, I knew I was going to have to do it," he said. 
 
 Indian-American Kaling, 38, whose character only speaks in riddles in the movie said her role is that of a chatterbox, but "it's wonderful because this is a character who only speaks in the wisest sayings". 
 
 "There's so much wisdom in the world and I think I quote   in the movie, in addition to the traditional more classic scholars," she added. 
 
 Reid, 14, said working on the film was an amazing experience for her. The actress praised the 44-year-old filmmaker and all the cast members for being supportive. 
 
 "Ms Ava is so patient. Me and Mr Chris, we had some intense scenes, and just being able to see him work and see how focused he was, was amazing. Ms Reese and Mindy, you guys are amazing and you made me feel like you were my mom on set. "
 
 "Seeing Ms Oprah work was magical because you can tell that she really loves what she does. She just made me feel comfortable and she's an amazing actress," she said. 
 
 'A Wrinkle In Time' which hits theatres on March 9, 2018, is written by Jennifer Lee, the writer and co-director of ' '. 
 
 The cast also features Deric McCabe, Gugu Mbatha-Raw, Levi Miller, Micheal Pena, Zach Galifinakas.
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
