BENGALURU: The International Society for Krishna Consciousness (Iskcon) on Friday dismissed the government's 'no onion, no garlic' justification to   signed with it for supplying food to 198 Indira Canteens in Bengaluru. Iskcon, in fact, hinted at politics behind the issue. 

 According to government and Iskcon sources, pressure from the hoteliers' lobby is said to have led to scrapping the deal, as this section felt any move to centralize the system by getting Ikscon alone to supply food would hurt its business immensely. "Hoteliers were worried that if Iskcon supplies food across the city, then they'd lose a substantial portion of their business at specific high-volume locations," said a senior government official. Result: Indira Canteens will now be decentralised, with the government likely to call for tenders at a more local level and have hoteliers in the vicinity bid to supply subsidized food.
 
  "Iskcon is committed to supplying hygienic, quality and tasty food. We are happy the government has taken a decision in this regard by inviting tenders. We will move on," said an Iskcon spokesperson. However, sources within the society said they were being forced out simply because of logistical issues and politics and that not using onion and garlic was just an "excuse". 
 
  According to Iskcon, its   supplies to canteens in five other states apart from Karnataka ( , Telangana, Gujarat, Rajasthan and Odisha) and there too the food served doesn't have onion or garlic. However, those governments are happy with the quality and taste, it said. 
 
 The organization also points to logistical concerns. Considering the mid-day meal scheme is its primary focus, it'd be difficult to supply three meals a day, it said. "If we were to supply food for three meals, then the focus would shift from our primary goal of mid-day meal for kids. While politics has been a prime factor, the change in plan (earlier the talk was about supplying one meal a day. Later it changed to three) was also a reason," said a member of Iskcon.
 
 The government also admitted logistics was a deal-breaker, considering Iskcon may not be able to offer variety and would stick to a certain menu with its centralized kitchen."With hoteliers, not only will food be available faster, there will be also more variety at the canteens," said an official. 
 
 A ccording to government sources, the canteen contracts will now be packaged for 10 or 15 wards and bids will be called for a single hotelier to supply breakfast, lunch and dinner. The government is expected to consider only those hotels which have large chains or networks in the city. This is to maintain uniformity in hygiene and quality of food. Besides, the government may supply the ingredients through its public distribution system to ease burden on the state exchequer. 
 
 
