In the eighth and concluding part of the Operation Swachh series on holy cities, SHOEB KHAN takes stock of major issues--from official apathy and public indifference to lack of vision of the Dargah Committee--that are turning the area surrounding the shrine of Khwaja Moinuddin Chishti into a slum.

 There are several factors that are holding up development in the congested   of Ajmer. These include the  ,   and lack of vision of the  .
 
 In the latest example of how the administration takes the Dargah area for granted, the sewer lines from Kamani Gate to Ander Kote were dug up during the holy month of Ramzan.
 
 While this was done with the promise that the old lines would be replaced with broad and open drains before Eid, the work is far from being over.
 
 Soon after Eid, the annual Urs of Khwaja Gharib Nawaz's spiritual guru Khwaja Usmani Harooni began and attracted about 2.5 lakh devotees within six days.The devotees were subjected to the unpleasant experience of wading through overflowing drains. One spell of rain left the incomplete sewer lines dangerously open. As a result, many devotees sustained injuries.
 
 Most of the streets do not have steps due to digging.“The first two steps of my street have been missing for a month now. I have to climb up and down every time I go out. This rainy season, I fear more unfortunate incidents,“ said Syed Shoaib Chishty, a resident of Kader Light Street, Kamani Gate.
 
 The attitude of locals too is casual. They wear neat and clean clothes but have no sense of sanitation. Urinating in the open is an accepted norm here. “Local residents, most of whom who are entirely dependent on the Dargah for a livelihood, keep mum on everything, be it keeping a check on ongoing administrative work, encroachments, cutting trees, illegal harnessing of groundwater or other issues,“ said Syed Ibrahim Chishty, a khadim who has been actively pursuing development in the area.
 
 This is the reason why guests or devotees do not prefer to go outside and remain in their rooms when they are here. “A person cannot pass through the area without covering one's nose. Every shopkeeper has stretched his shop onto the roads, leaving less than four feet in some of the busiest lanes,“ said a devotee. No wonder the local administration terms local Dargah area residents as `anti-development'.
 
 The Dargah Committee, a body under the Dargah Sahib Act with members appointed by the Union ministry of minority affairs, too has done little to improve the situation. It is expected to look after Dargah affairs like management, endowment and utilize donations for the welfare of Dargah and devotees.
 
 TOI learnt that the Dargah Committee has not been able to spend donations of Rs 2 crore each given by Dadi Balsari, the founder of Himalayan natural mineral water brand, and Asif Ali Zardari, former president of Pakistan. “The amount is kept in a bank as fixed deposit. The committee is earning interest on the amount, which is the least they can do. Ideally, they should have spent the money on building dispensary, toilets or extending facilities in schools,“ said a former member of the Dargah committee.
 
 Meanwhile, all attempts by TOI to contact district collector Gaurav Goyal failed.
 
 `AJMER WILL SOON ENTER THE LEAGUE OF WORLD CLASS CITIES'
 
 Ajmer is on the way to becoming a `world class' city while keeping its religious, cultural and historical character intact. The Union government's four schemes--SMART, ICONIC, HRIDAY and AMRUT--will take the 7th century city into the league of world's best cities. The Dargah area is a religious-cum-cultural centre with deeprooted history. I have been working for the holistic development of the area. The installation of colonial era lamp-posts in the Dargah Bazaar has already become a reality. The proposed heritage walk at Naya Bazaar, under the   and Augmentation Yojana (HRIDAY), is progressing fast. The front buildings on the proposed stretch have been painted in yellow with red stripes. Besides heritage lamp-posts, benches and cemented pathways will recreate the old era look. Under the Jal Swavlamban scheme, we have carried out desilting of centuries-old stepwells in the Ander Kota area. This has been done to harness rainwater and to evoke pride in our heritage.
 
 I have aheld meetings with the forest department and the urban development department to revive the rich flora and fauna of Ajmer, including the Dargah area that is located on a hilly terrain.
 
 A plantation drive will be carried out and we will grow mango trees like in old times VASUDEV DEVNANI | State education minister & MLA Ajmer (North)
 
 `OVER LAST THREE YEARS, PUSHKAR HAS CHANGED'
 
 The government of Rajasthan's special focus on Pushkar has transformed the holy city in the last three years. Chief minister Vasundhara Raje's dream project of a ropeway to the Savitri Temple, situated on the top of the hill, has turned into a reality. Pushkar has made remarkable improvements in cleanliness and developing the civic sense of locals. Our government can be evaluated from the fact that the city that hosts lakhs of devotees from across the globe has never had an accident. The holy city has caves dating back to the period of Mahabharata and Ramayana. These caves have Vedic verses inscribed on them. Our plan is to revive the city as a centre of learning the Sanatan Dharma.The old caves and inscriptions in them can act as a missing link between various historical periods. Conservation of environment is also on our development agenda. I have pitched for a deer park at Nag hills. The deer park will be an exclusive ecosystem of flora and fauna that has disappeared. Several species of plants and birds that have gone missing will be revived here. The tunnel between Ajmer and Pushkar will be a connecting point between the Dargah and Sarovar. I am satisfied with the cleanliness work
 
 SURESH RAWAT | MLA Pushkar
 
 
