KOLKATA/MUMBAI/BAREILLY/BENGALURU: A second-year student registered an FIR against   for hurting religious sentiments through his poem on   Yogi.

 Bandopadhyay had uploaded a12-line poem titled “Abhishap” on a social media platform on March 19, criticising some of Aditya Nath’s previous comments. On Tuesday, complainant Arnab Sarkar filed a complaint with the Siliguri cyber-crime cell and alleged that the word ‘trishul’ in the poem is offensive.
 
 “If Srijato has freedom of expression to say what he feels in the garb of poetry, no one can deny my right to protest. He can’t get away with what he wrote in the last line of his poem,” said Sarkar, a second year student at Kalipada Ghosh Terai Mahavidyalaya. Hindu Samhati, the social Hindu organisation Sarkar is affiliated to, is backing his fight and state BJP president Dilip Ghosh has come out in his support.
 
 The poet, who has not issued any apology so far, said that people having a problem with the poem have not understood its meanings. In a statement issued later, he wrote, “In a country where a violent mob killed a man accused of eating beef, such a complaint isn’t unexpected.   Yogi believes that women shouldn’t be given freedom or left alone. It’s scary that the chief minister of India’s largest state still clings to beliefs that are 2,000 years old.”
 
 Several other complaints were also filed against individuals across the country for sharing Aditya Nath’s highly “defamatory and inflammatory” morphed pictures. In Bengaluru, the Bharatiya Janata Party Yuva Morcha filed a complaint against social activist Prabha Belavangala for sharing the CM’s morphed images on her Facebook page.
 
 Mumbai police arrested a 19-year-old for allegedly uploading a morphed picture of a warrior king with Aditya Nath’s head, on Facebook. In west UP’s Bareilly area, police arrested a youth for sharing the CM’s morphed pictures on instant messenger WhatsApp. “The youth has been arrested. We have also received a photocopy of the picture that was shared on WhatsApp,” said superintendent of police rural Yamuna Prasad.
 
