BAREILLY: A day after seven women were booked in Muzaffarnagar for allegedly duping people by taking money from them after enrolling them under a non-existent scheme under the ‘Beti Bachao Beti Padhao’ (BBBP) initiative, the Union ministry of women and child development has issued a public warning about such rackets. The ministry has clarified that there is no such provision to dispense cash under the scheme.
 
  Anti-social elements have been actively involved in duping innocent people in UP in the name of the scheme, with reports coming from every corner. The scheme was launched in January 2015 focusing on challenging mindsets and deep rooted patriarchy in the social system as well as advancing education of girl child.
  
  Muzaffarnagar police said that the accused who promised their victims that they would get returns were identified as Neah, Sonia, Gita, Savita, Shama Parveen, Mansi and Vandana. “An investigation has been initiated into the matter,” senior superintendent of police (SSP) Babloo Kumar said.
  
  Issuing a public warning, the Union ministry stated, “It has come to notice that certain unauthorised sites, organisations, NGOs and individuals are distributing forms in the name of cash incentive under BBBP scheme. The scheme has no provision for individual cash transfer component by the Centre. It is not a direct benefit transfer scheme but the focus is on issues of women empowerment on a life cycle continuum.”
  
  The notice further warns that it is a serious matter and if any such incident occurs, people should report it to the police immediately. The ministry has advised people against falling into the trap of such fraudsters and that no personal details should be shared. “FIRs have already been filed by DMs of Meerut and Muzaffarnagar in the matter. The matter has come to light in Lucknow as well. Distribution of such forms is completely illegal,” the notice read.
  
  Meanwhile, in Bareilly alone, over 45,000 such fake forms have been dispatched to the ministry. A senior official in postal department on condition of anonymity said, “Just before polling in the district we saw such posts in a very huge quantity, addressed to the ministry.”
  
  Madhu Diwakar, a city resident, told TOI, “We bought a form for Rs 10 from a photocopy shop near the collectorate. People known to me suggested that I post the form to the ministry’s address as I have a 3-year-old daughter. The shopkeeper told me that at the age of 18, my daughter would be able to get a sum of Rs 2 lakh that would be transferred directly to my bank account, because I am her guardian.”
  
  In rural areas, such forms can be bought even from Jan Suvidha Kendras (public facility centres). These centres are allotted by the government to unemployed youths. In some areas of Shamli district, even councillors are taking rounds of their respective wards to encourage the public to fill the forms. District magistrate of Shamli Sujit Kumar has said that strict action would be taken against those involved in the fraud.
