Noida: The residents have upped the ante against the proposed increase in floor area ratio (FAR) of builder plots by the  , saying the increase not only amounts to contravention of the already declared Master Plan 2021-2031, but is also an unjust means to earn money.

 In a letter to Noida Authority   on Monday, the Confederation of   Associations (CONRWA) said builders have already flouted many rules with regard to FAR in connivance with the Authority in constructing housing societies, which include disregard to fire safety measures as well as generating additional population density as against the original master plan.
 
 “The proposed increase in FAR of builder plots is absolutely baseless because it’s against Master Plan 2021-2031. The master plan was dcrawn up considering residential, commercial, group housing and industrial plot area, as well as population density, infrastructure, road width, and open and green lands. It should be changed only under special circumstances necessitated by public interest,” CONRWA president P S Jain told TOI.
 
 Jain said increasing FAR merely to earn money is totally wrong as the Authority already has a strong financial base. “Instead, it should seek repayment of loans provided to other government agencies. This money belongs to the residents of Noida. The existing high population density of the city has already created problems like traffic jams, pollution, encroachments and lack of parking space,” he said.
 
 Chetan Sharma, CONRWA secretary general, said that once approved, the FAR of any builder/group housing plot should not be increased as it has a ripple effect on the agreed plan for the allottees. “If the FAR is increased, builders will construct additional floors over the existing towers. This will increase the load on existing buildings, which was not considered while preparing the infrastructure plan initially,” Sharma said.
 
 In case the builder develops a new tower after the change, it will affect the open area ratio of the plot and increase the population density, he added. “Residents will have to face the many problems related to this, like lack of adequate sunlight and green areas, increase in pollution and traffic and inadequate parking spaces. FAR should not be increased,” Jain further said.
 
 CONRWA is supported by the Federation of Noida Residents Welfare Associations (FONRWA) in this demand. “An increase in FAR on already allotted flats is illegal as it will affect small investors. The number of flats will increase in comparison to the intimated numbers at the time of booking,” said N P Singh, president, FONRWA.
 
 The Authority, which had proposed amending the bylaws in a board meeting in October last year, had last week sought suggestions from the public on the matter. The proposed amendment, sought by the department of architecture and planning, aims to increase the density of persons per hectare by 5% in group housing societies.
 
