Nagpur: The three-member search committee appointed by the Chancellor (Governor of Maharashtra) for the post of vice-chancellor (VC) of Yashwantrao Chavan Maharashtra Open University ( ) seems to have violated the model code of conduct (MCC) for elections by holding interviews of applicants.

 Former chief justice of Bombay High Court Justice Mohit Shah led the panel which included director of National Institute of Technology (NIT), New Delhi, Ajay Kumar Sharma as chancellor’s nominee and principal secretary (Higher and Technical education) Sitaram Kunte as the member secretary.
 
 According to sources, the interviews were conducted on February 17, 18 and 19. The Election Commission of India had imposed MCC across Maharashtra in view of elections to five MLC seats on January 6. Later, MCC remained imposed with the announcement of municipal corporation elections in the state. The MCC would be lifted only after counting of votes for the municipal corporation poll votes on February 23.
 
 Sources in NU and YCMOU said publications of advertisements regarding filling of various posts have been held back in view of MCC. 
 
 The search committee had invited nominations/applications from eminent academicians for the post of YCMOU VC by publishing advertisements in newspapers on November 30, 2016. Interested individuals were given time till January 6, 2017, to send their applications along with supporting documents.
 
 From Nagpur, eight to 10 applicants are in the race for the top post. Prominent among them are NU pro-VC Pramod Yeole, BCUD director DK Agrawal, PG teaching department of Mathematics’s KC Deshmukh, principal of Mahila Mahavidyalaya Mrunalini Fadnavis, Purushottam Thote, principal of Purushottam Thote College of Social Work, and principal of Kamala Nehru Mahavidyalaya Arvind Shinde.
 
 Sources said the panel received over 70 applications. Of them, around 50 were invited for interviews. The committee submitted its recommendations to the Chancellor’s office on Monday morning. 
 
 When TOI contacted nodal officer of the search panel Manisha Singh, who is assistant registrar of NIT, she said, “everything will be soon available on the university’s website.” 
 
 When pointed out that MCC was imposed in the state, she disconnected TOI’s call.
 
 State election commissioner JS Saharia told TOI that he was “very busy” and won’t be able to comment.
 
 Governor’s PRO Umesh Kashikar asked TOI to forward him queries through e-mails and mark a copy to chancellor’s secretary. Both didn’t reply till late in the evening. Kashikar didn’t respond to TOI calls later.
 
 Rules during model code of conduct
 
 * No publishing of ads or call for interviews for appointment/recruitment in govt services, semi-govt organizations, govt boards/corporations and public undertakings be given 
 
 * Written test can be held only if letter is issued before the model code is imposed
 
 * But, announcement of results or holding interviews barred
 
 
