HUBBALLI: Irresponsible addiction to social media is beginning to kill. There’s no other way to put it. A terrible irony lies in the callous manner in which accident victim Anwar Ali Ekalaspur was allowed to die on Wednesday by voyeuristic bystanders intent only on shooting cellphone videos for social media posts while he begged for help. 

 It happened in Karnataka, the first state to introduce the Good Samaritan and Medical Professionals Bill to encourage people to rush accident victims to hospital within the golden hour. That bill awaits the assent of the governor. This is the third social media death this year. 
 
 On January 28, a policeman died of injuries suffered in a headon collision on a highway near Mysuru. He might have lived had the onlookers helped him instead of taking morbid photos. 
 
 Before that, a cousin of one of four young people killed in an accident in Ludhiana on January 6 related how people just stood and recorded on video her sister calling for her mother as she took her last breaths.
 
 In Hyderabad, nursing students hit by a speeding cab on January 30 had to suffer pain and voyeuristic bystanders, with their smartphones clicking away, for hours before their friends arrived and took them to hospital. It was simply good fortune no one died. 
 
 Back home in Koppal, Anwar’s grieving family coped as best as they could with their loss. “We’re clueless about our future, we have lost our only breadwinner,” cried his mother Ramzanbi. They also wondered why none of the many bystanders helped Anwar, only 18, as he lay in a pool of blood after being hit by a speeding KSRTC bus. 
 
 Dr Nandakumar Jairam, chairman and medical director, Columbia Asia Hospitals, said: “It is most unfortunate that bystanders did nothing to save the young life and continued shooting pictures. With proper support from bystanders and appropriate medical care during the golden hour, 50% of road accident deaths can be curbed.” 
 
 He added, “Basic life support (BLS) training is crucial and everyone should be proficient in it. BLS techniques provide support to the victim’s airways, breathing and cardiac functions.” 
 
 Around 8.40am on Wednesday, Anwar was cycling to the market where he worked in a tiles shop when he was hit by a state government bus going to Hubballi from Hospet. He lay writhing in pain and blood. Some people offered him water and informed local police. The ambulance arrived 25 minutes later and shifted him to hospital. District surgeon at Koppal, Dr Suresh Danaraddi, told TOI: “Anwar was brought to hospital around 9.15am in serious condition and our doctors tried their best to save his life, but in vain.”
 
