GURUGRAM: Continuing with their demands of timely takeover of   by MCG, the residents’ group Residents United held a protest march on Sunday morning from the Marriot Courtyard Hotel till Huda City Centre Metro station.

 Around 250 residents of Sushant Lok 1, along with 50 of South City 1, started their march at 9am, but were forced to wrap up at 11.30am by police, as the protest started affecting traffic at the busy junction.
 
 “We want our voice to be heard by chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar. Residents are living in miserable conditions in   with no basic infrastructure. Government of Haryana has to deliver their year-old promise and take over maintenance of private colonies,” said Neelu Sharma, president of Resident United, a pressure group formed by residents to keep a check on the government.
 
 Neelu added the administration is only bothered about areas which are being visited by senior government officials, while ignoring the rest of Gurgaon. Residents had organised a similar protest earlier in February, and have been pressing the government to expedite the takeover process.
 
 Many senior citizens live in areas such Sushant Lok 1 and South City 1. They claim they are being harassed due to lack of basic infrastructure in residential neighbourhoods. “I’ve been living in Sushant Lok for the past 14 years. When   was announced, I felt “achhey din” has arrived, but now I realise everything was an eyewash,” said S Ramasubramanian, a senior citizen living in Sushant Lok 1.
 
 Residents of South City 1 said they decided to join the protest because they felt in all developer-run areas, the problems are the same.
 
 “The chief minister himself came and announced the takeover, but the government is now backtracking. Developers have failed residents, and it’s because of the government’s lenient attitude towards developers,” said O P Sharma, treasurer, South City RWA.
 
 Sharma added that the previous MCG commissioner had even floated tenders for road repair work, but the work order is stuck as the corporation is now pressing for legal takeover before taking up maintenance work in developer areas such as DLF Sushant Lok 1 and South City 1.
 
 The chief minister had announced in February last year that MCG will take over private   in phases, with DLF areas, Sushant Lok 1 and Palam Vihar falling under the first phase. The then MCG commissioner had assured that in areas not being taken over, the corporation will at least take up infrastructure maintenance work. But over an year later, nothing has been done by the government.
 
