NAGPUR: It’s ‘back to the basics’ literally for many established colleges in city as they venture into school education to tap a fast growing market buoyed by rising aspirations of parents from the lower middle to middle class section. Backed with a land bank within city limits and a strong brand name built over decades, a century for some, colleges are now opening their gates to school kids. 

  College is one biggest brands in city with a   grade and from 2017-18 session will see little kids coming under the Hislop fold for the first time. Rachna Singh, senior member of the trust which manages a large cluster of educational institutions, including Hislop, said, “The KG to PG (kindergarten to postgraduation) concept is what we have in mind. Apart from quality education, school students will benefit from shared resources of Hislop college like their renowned Psychology department can help in counselling etc. And of course, for admissions to Std XI in Hislop these kids will have an edge over others.” 
 
 Another school starting this year comes from the group which is renowned, and also holds NAAC-A grade — LAD College. Women’s Education Society (WES) will start admissions to Std I in its   at the Seminary Hills campus.   secretary Panna Akhani said, “We are not leveraging LAD’s name for the school because they are separate entities, though the management is same. It (school sector) is indeed a competitive market but we will focus on providing quality education with lot of sports facilities. Teachers will be hired on sixth pay commission salary levels, as is the practice within the group.” And WES does have a small exposure in teaching small kids. Akhani said, “Since early 70s we operate a pre-primary unit called Balwadi in the Seminary Hills campus. It was started so that college students studying child development could put their skills to test.” The school will operate from Std I to X while Balwadi will continue to operate as a separate unit. 
 
 At the north end of Seminary Hills road in another reputed institution, SFS College. Its sister concern SFS School of Excellence (SFS SE) started from 2015-16 academic session on the same campus. Fr Patrick Lemos, secretary of both school and college said, “Though the college and school are run by different trust/society, the president of all institutions is the Archbishop. We started the school because apart from quality education we could provide a serene atmosphere for kids with ample space to play and be with nature.” Students passing out from SFS SE will get preference during admissions at SFS College, Fr Lemos added. 
 
 Some academicians feel this new wave of ‘branded’ schools starting may hurt enrolment in existing schools. A senior principal of state board school said, “Parents want a well-known school, within city limits and a somewhat reasonable fee structure. These new schools are offering exactly that due to which in the next five to six years you may see a considerable shift from schools located outside city limits.” 
 
 
