BADLAPUR: Upset with his live-in partner for ending their two-year-old relationship because he is an   and dependent on her, a 25-year-old man from Badlapur allegedly strangled her with her scarf on Wednesday night. He then sat by her body for two hours and even contemplated suicide before surrendering to the police. 

 “We have arrested the accused, Vijay Jarkar, and booked him for murder,” said assistant police inspector Madhuk-ar Kolekar, Badlapur (W) police station. 
 
 The victim, Poonam Gajbhiye, was a 30-year-old   employed with an IT firm in Kanjurmarg. 
 
  Gajbhiye, a divorcee, and Jarkar met in 2015 and soon he moved into her rented flat. Later, she also rented a commercial space in Badlapur for Jarkar, to run a mobile phone repair shop. Six months ago, Gajbhiye bought a flat in Pride building in Badlapur gaon and the couple shifted there. 
 
 Police said Jarkar’s parents knew that he was was in a  , but her parents weren’t. Recently, Gajbhiye’s mother learnt of the relationship and objected to it. She convinced her daughter that Jarkar was not good enough for her as he was only an HSC dropout and dependent on her. Gajbhiye then told Jarkar that she wanted to end the relationship and asked him to leave the flat. He tried to change her mind, but she stuck to her decision. 
 
 On Wednesday night, when they had an argument on the same issue, Jarakar, in a fit of rage, picked up her scarf and strangled her, said the police. On realizing the gravity of his action, Jarakar broke down and sat near her body for two hours, said the police. He then went to a friend’s place and told him that he was planning to commit suicide by jumping in front of a train as he had killed his girlfriend. His friend talked him out of it and convinced him to surrender to the police. 
 
 “Early on Thursday, Jarkar came to the police station and confessed to killing his girlfriend. We went to the flat and found her body there,” said Kolekar. The body has been sent to Central Hospital in Ulhasnagar for post-mortem.
 
 On Thursday, police produced Jarkar before the Ulhasnagar court, which remanded him in police custody till March 13. 
 
