On Saturday night, Farah Sheikh, a Kashmiri student, was allegedly abused and assaulted by police officials on duty outside her hostel in the city. Farah claims that a verbal spat between her and the officials led to the arrest. The city police have formed a committee to look into the issue. According to   Commissioner  . “After listening to both the sides, I have ordered DCP (Zone II) Pankaj Dahane to form a committee to investigate this matter,” she told us. 

 Citing language problems while studying in a different state,   feel that the police and people, in general, should be more sensitive and understanding of their situation. We spoke to a few students and this is what they had to say:
 
 
 
 According a friend of Farah’s, the police were standing outside the hostel when Farah came out to handover a laptop to a friend. “The police were asking everyone to disperse from the spot and said something in Marathi, which Farah didn’t understand. When she told them that she didn’t understand the language, they told her to learn Marathi and started yelling at her for no apparent reason. Following this, she was detained by the police and charged with various sections under the Indian Penal Code,” says student Aquib Bhat, who was with her during police procedures on Sunday and Monday.
 
 
 
 Aquib Bhat, a Kashmiri student added, “Coming from Jammu & Kashmir, we have a different tone while talking and it takes time to learn a new language. In Farah’s case, the police should have believed her and instructed her accordingly. The police officials expected her to know Marathi since she has been in the city for the last two years.” Another Kashmiri student, on the condition of anonymity, said, “Being an education hub, students from many states and countries come to Pune. If I am not aware about the language and grammar, I might end up hurting someone’s sentiments. So, to avoid that, I speak in Hindi, which I am comfortable with. Also my dialect or way of speaking is Pahadi, so it is mistaken for arrogance at times. But now my friends know that this is a genuine problem.” Javed Wani, a Kashmiri student staying in city for a decade, added, “Due to my upbringing in Pune, even Kashmiri people don’t believe that I am from the state. Considering this, there is a need for authorities to be more sensitive before coming to any conclusion in order to avoid misunderstanding.”
 
  
  
 
 
 There are hundreds of Kashmiri students studying in the city and they say that the city has been a good place for them.  , founder and director of Sarhad, an organisation that works for these students informed, “We have been working in the city for more than a decade and the police has been supportive. But I feel they should’ve handled the situation sensitively as this can send out a wrong message regarding Kashmiri youths.” Wani also added that in his last 15 years here, he has been contributing to various social activities including helping the police during the Ganesh festival. “They have been sensitive but the recent incident has spread concern among other students. Even a small incident is enough to taint the trust that has been built over the years,” he said.
 
 
 
 After the news of the incident reached the valley, many parents urged the students to come back home. “Many a times, if something related to a Kashmiri happens anywhere, people start calling their near ones back. This incident is causing similar issues,” Nahar added. Another student informed that the parents, including Farah’s, have asked their wards to come back.
 
 
 While Nahar informed that the Jammu & Kashmir government has expressed concern and has asked for a report from the city police, Shukla denied this claim. She added, “We are conducting an enquiry and no government has asked for any report from us.”
 
  
  
 
