NAGPUR: “Realizing the needs of the society and developing technology to benefit mankind is the responsibility of an engineer,” said Ashish Kolhe, HR manager of Tata Automotive. He was speaking at the inaugural ceremony of ‘TechSaga 2k17’ organized by Anjuman College of Engineering and Technology on Thursday.

 About 2,000 students participated in the two-day youth festival conducted at the national level which was a combination of technical and fun events. The various departments organized competitions related to their streams to apply their knowledge in practical life. 
 
 Joint director of DTE Gulabrao Thakre, coordinator, faculty of Nagpur University MD Choudhary, principal Sajid Anwar and convener of Celestial Sayyed Aamir Hussain were among the dignitaries seated on the dais. Anwar said, “TechSaga is a learning ground for budding engineers. They get acquainted with things which cannot be taught in classrooms or through books. They develop communication, presentation and entrepreneurship skills by organizing and participating in it.” 
 
 ‘App on Wheels’, a brainchild of the department of computer science, made contestants design an application within 24 hours, providing a digital solution to problems related to the transport industry. Ruhi Rangwala said, “Candidates are expected to programme an app to make online toll payments, get traffic analysis, track robbed trucks and find multiple modes of transport synched with reliable routes.”
 
 Department of civil engineering held ‘Portal Frame Modelling’ in which G+2 structural models of buildings made up of ice-cream sticks were judged on their safety and load carrying capacity. Students demonstrated their skills in their field of design using Auto-Cad through ‘CAD-ovative’, an initiative by the mechanical department. A national conference on ‘Advances in engineering and applied science’ was organized by the electrical department.
 
 A bubble bum fight called ‘Dangal’, led by the department of electronics and telecommunication, was the major attraction for the crowd. A workshop on IOT (Internet of Things) was also held in collaboration with Innovation Cell of   and Robokart.com. University representative   said, “We learnt the art of branding and managerial skills while coming up with such unique events.” 
 
 The event was coordinated by Namrata Lotia, Ruhina Quazi and Humera Syed. Quazi said that the technical events will serve as a platform for participating in the ‘World Biggest Hackathon’, announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to bridge the digital divide and promote its literacy in the country.
 
