HYDERABAD: Both celebrations and dissent by women marked day two of the distribution of   sarees in the state on Tuesday . While some women folk in Ranga Reddy district danced to the tunes of Bathukamma by joyously displaying the colourful sarees, some others burnt the fabric at a couple of places in   and Warangal urban districts.
Barring these stray incidents, the distribution of Bathukamma sarees was by and large peaceful in the state on Tuesday with women waiting in long queues for their turn to get the gift. In all, about 27 lakh sarees were distributed on day two, which is 2 lakh more than what was given away on the first day.
 
 While TRS leaders said   women workers were burning the sarees, the opposition party claimed that it were actually poor women who, disappointed with the poor quality , were voluntarily doing so.
 
 Director of handlooms and textiles Shailaja Ramaiayer said the fact that 2 lakh women came out to accept sarees on the second day itself is a testimony to the fact that the Bathukamma gift is a huge hit. “We want to complete the distribution to all 1.04 crore women beneficiaries by September 21, the day the nine-day festival is slated to commence,“ she said.
 
 Meanwhile, chief minister   conveyed his greetings to the people of the state on the occasion of Bathukamma. KCR said Bathukamma, which mirrors   culture and tradition, should be celebrated with happiness and gaiety by the people.
 
 On Tuesday , chief secretary SP Singh held a high-level meeting and directed officials to make fool-proof arrangements for the “Maha Bathukamma“ to be celebrated in Hyderabad on September 26. Over 40,000 women from all the dis tricts in Telangana are expected to throng the city that day to participate in the celebrations.Traffic police have been told to prepare plans for diversion and regulation of vehicular traffic around Hussainsagar and other water bodies on September 26.
 
 On the occasion of   on September 28, 200 women will take out a rally from Lumbini Park to Tank Bund and play Bathukamma at the Bathukamma Ghat. The CS has directed the officials to ensure that the programme passes off peacefully .
 
 BJP seeks probe into saree procurement
 
 Hyderabad: The Telangana Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Tuesday demanded that the Telangana government order a judicial inquiry into the procurement of Bathukamma sarees in the wake of allegations by the beneficiary women that they are of inferior quality. Addressing separate press conferences, BJP state president K Laxman and spokesperson Krishnasagar Rao on Tuesday said Telangana ministers, including KT Rama Rao, should also tender an apology to womenfolk for their comments after the saree protests on Monday.
 
