THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The   has recommended the government to conduct an   to identify   in human beings as well as other living things in  . The treatment for endosulfan-related medical conditions should also be studied thoroughly, it said.

 The recommendation was part of the report submitted by the commission to the government. According to the commission, the report was prepared after field visits and interactions with affected people and their immediate relatives and those involved in rehabilitation of victims in  .
 
 The commission recommended to the government that endosulfan-affected persons and their bystanders should be exempted from following queue system in hospitals. Kasaragode district collector should issue an order in this regard and the same should be circulated among government and other empanelled hospitals, the panel said.
 
 The commission also asked health secretary and director to take immediate steps to fill vacancy of doctors in community health centres and other government hospitals in the district. The patients should be given free medicines and facilities for physiotherapy, speech therapy should be immediately set up at community health centres, taluk and district hospitals.
 
 Based on statistics, the government should take steps for establishing more Buds schools for ensuring the rehabilitation of persons below 18 years of age. The commission recommended to urgently enhance the grant for food allowance to students in buds school. Also, government should grant one jeep each to the buds schools for the transportation of students.
 
 In order to ensure that the dignity and personality of the endosulfan victims are not compromised, the government should take steps to ensure that the victims are not paraded in an inferior manner in functions and protest meetings.
 
 The chief secretary was asked to take steps to set up a special tribunal for providing compensation to the endosulfan victims and the close relatives of the deceased victims. If the panchayat funds are not sufficient meet such expenses, the government should make provisions for fund allocation in state budget
 
 The commission has asked the government to submit an action taken report in one month.
 
