MORADABAD: When a girl student of history asked the   to give an additional answer sheet in the examination hall at   at Thakurdwara here, the examiner allegedly professed his love for her and also wrote it on a piece of paper. The examiner, Muneesh Kumar, then followed the girl home,   her and then  . An FIR has been filed against Kumar.
 
  Kumar is a teacher at the degree college and was officiating as examiner when the girl student was giving the examination. “First he started passing lewd remarks at me when I was writing the exam. When he came to my desk to sign on an extra answer sheet, he professed his love for me and also wrote it on a piece of paper. He then repeatedly whispered the words to me whenever he passed my desk during the exam,” the student, 19, told TOI.
  
  The girl somehow managed to finish her paper, submitted it and left for home, but it was only the beginning of her travails. “Kumar turned up and followed me while I was walking home. He accosted me at a spot near the road and tried to molest me. He then beat me up,” she alleged.
  
  Hearing her cries, local residents arrived at the spot, by which time Kumar had escaped after threatening the student not to lodge a complaint against him. The girl’s parents and police also shortly reached the spot. Police filed an FIR against Kumar. The girl was sent to the hospital where she was treated for bruises to her hands and elbows.
  
  “We have registered an FIR against Kumar under section 354 (assault or using criminal force on a woman with intent to outrage her modesty) of the IPC and have inspected the exam centre and the spot where he allegedly assaulted the girl. Her statement as well as that of witnesses has been recorded. A police team raided Kumar’s house at Pratappur village, but he had escaped. We are trying to track him down,” said Kalu Singh, circle officer of Thakurdwara circle.
  
  Moradabad MP Kunwar Sarvesh Singh has demanded that the National Security Act be invoked against Kumar. “This is a shameful act committed by the college teacher, and will raise a question mark on the trustworthiness of male teachers,” he added.
