NEW DELHI: The documents recovered by   during its probe against former finance minister P Chidambaram’s son   and his front companies reveal that Padma Bhaskararaman, wife of Karti’s close aide S Bhaskararaman, was made a promoter and director on record of Advantage Strategic Consulting Pvt Ltd (ASCPL) to conceal the real identity of people controlling the business.

 As first reported by TOI, the documents suggest that   Chidambaram was the “incharge of” and “ultimate beneficiary” of ASCPL, a company now under CBI probe for FIPB approval to INX Media.
 
 Now, ED is preparing to launch a money laundering probe against Karti Chidambaram on the basis of the CBI FIR. A report prepared by ED on the basis of its Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA) probe reveals that Padma Bhaskararaman is only a promoter and director on record and carried on a profession as a “school teacher”. Her brother Ravi was also projected as promoter of ASCPL to conceal Karti’s identity.
 
 Subsequently, in a statement recorded this year, Meera Arun, wife of CMD of Vasan Health Care Pvt Ltd – A M Arun, stated that even though she was a shareholder in the company, entire business was looked after by her husband only. A M Arun had told investigators that while he was looking to expand his eye care centres business and required foreign funding, Karti Chidambaram, whom he has referred as one of his “family friends” and “well-wisher”, recommended an investment consultancy company called M/s Spark Capital Advisors to him.
 
 Meera Arun, while admitting that she was a dummy director in Vasan Health Care, said that her shares were transferred to her father V Dwarkanathan, “who in turn transferred the shares to a company belonging to Karti Chidambaram (ASCPL)”. Dwarkanathan’s 15,000 shares were sold to Karti’s company at a rate of Rs 100 per share.
 
 Dwarkanathan told the investigators that he was not aware of shares transferred to him by his daughter and that same had been sold to Karti Chidambaram.
 
 ED also says in its probe that C B N Reddy, Ravi Vishwanathan and S Bhakararaman, all directors of ASCPL, acted “as per the instructions of Karti” and that it was S Bhaskararaman who played an extensive role in all day to day affairs of ASCPL under the instructions of   leader’s son.
 
