S  , a 55-year-old mechanic from John Bull Street in Viveknagar, is officially a fallen man. He was arrested and let out on bail after a twisted case of peeping and assault.
 
 Ramesh’s wife, Shankari, is also facing action for allegedly abusing the woman and her family, after her husband hurt himself during the act.
 
 In her complaint to the police, the 50-year-old woman, whose husband passed away three months ago, said she was in the shower around noon when Ramesh, suspected to be drunk, climbed up the   to reach her first-floor  , about 20 ft high. When she found him peeping and tried to close the window, Ramesh loosened his grip to save his fingers and  .
 
 An officer involved in the case, confirmed the incident. “The woman lives with her two sons and two daughters. Ramesh, in his statement, claimed he got pleasure from watching women in different postures. He would go in search of houses where the bathroom was built outside. He claimed he got a lot of pleasure watching women in shower,” said the officer.
 
 Ramesh’s daughter, who was at home with her newborn, accused the woman’s sons of beating her father. In fact, it was Ramesh’s daughter who first filed a complaint with the police, accusing the woman’s sons of assault.
 
 When the police summoned the two brothers, they learnt about the peeping incident. The woman, who had initially no intention of filing a complaint, eventually reported Ramesh to the cops. He was arrested and then released on bail.
 
 “After coming out on bail, Ramesh has started harassing us. He and the family keep hurling abuses at us. Because of this harassment, we have decided to vacate the house. He targets us when we step out of our house to go to work,” said a member of the woman’s family.
 
 Ramesh was arrested on January 7 for criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty (IPC 354) and intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace (IPC 504). The police are investigating the complaint filed against the woman’s sons by Ramesh’s daughter.
 
