NEW DELHI: Call it a case of   with a difference. It involves   and cross-border targets, but in this case India is continually at the receiving end, and happily so.
 
  Suppliers in India eagerly await the next consignments of   from across the border, where a pre-Partition industry set up in what is now Pakistan’s Punjab province continues to produce more competitive surgical instruments.
  
  The worsening of political ties between the two countries notwithstanding, India imports scissors, forceps and other surgical instruments such as needle holders and retractors from Pakistan, not only for domestic use but also for export to Afri can countries, among others.
  
  Indian artisans sought to compete with their Pakistani counterparts but eventually gave up, suppliers told ET. “These instruments are manufactured with the aid of hammer forging, a technique available in Pakistan,” said Vipin Yadav, owner of Leo Manufacturers.
  
  “Setting up an industry having this technique will entail substantial cost, which we won’t be able to bear without government support. While we manufacture 50 pieces a day, Pakistan, with the help of hammer forging, produces 5,000 pieces a day. And at a much cheaper price.”
  
  Besides the hammer forging technique, passed on from one generation to the next, Pakistan has an edge over India due to its cheaper labour, suppliers said.
  
  Nonetheless, there is an opportunity for India, they said, since the instruments manufactured by Pakistan are heavy and often need to be tinkered with for use here, and can also be exported to markets where lighter surgical instruments are preferred. Pakistan directly exports to Russia, Germany and Italy, among other countries, where heavier surgical instruments are required.
  
  Most suppliers in India are based in Jalandhar and receive surgical instruments from across the border mainly through the Samjhauta Express, the Delhi-Lahore train which runs between the two countries.
  
  However, there are suppliers in Delhi, Chennai and Mumbai as well, among other places in India, who directly import surgical instruments from Sialkot, the manufacturing hub in Pakistan.
  
  Thanks to the bonhomie between Indian suppliers and the Pakistan manufacturers, the latter have even acceded to the request to manufacture lighter surgical instruments for use in India.
  
  “Since it is not feasible to arrange cheap labour to repair the instruments, we had urged the manufacturers in Pakistan to prepare lightweight instruments for Indian consumers. Now nearly 40% of the import from Pakistan is of lightweight surgical instruments,” said Vinod Yadav, a Jalandhar-based manufacturer turned supplier who owns Retractor Manufacturers.
  
  On average, suppliers in Jalandhar alone import surgical instruments worth `5 crore, Yadav said.
  
  While a scissor used by students in medical colleges costs about `45, the high-end version required for surgery is priced at about `120, he said.
  
