New Delhi: A day after   in Delhi was severely hit due to high levels of ammonia in raw water, the production at four plants improved and the supply is expected to normalise by Tuesday morning.

 “There was a breach in   that was repaired by Sunday night and it started functioning normally by Monday evening. The two plants affected by it, Dwarka and Haiderpur, started production by Monday itself and are expected to optimise treatment by Tuesday morning. The   and Wazirabad plants, which had stopped entirely, also restarted and are expected to resume full production by Tuesday morning,” said an official of   (DJB).
 
 However, Delhi will have to brace for more such episodes as high levels of ammonia in raw water are caused by discharge of untreated industrial waste into the Yamuna from Sonipat and Panipat districts. An ammonia neutraliser was installed at the Wazirabad pond in 2016, which, the government had claimed, would ensure that water supply in Delhi would never be affected due to ammonia levels. 
 
 But a senior official said, “The neutraliser can only deal with levels of up to 1.5 ppm against the permissible limit of 0.2 ppm and that too for an hour or two. On Sunday, the level crossed 3 ppm. We had formulated another mechanism under which over 60% of raw water for Chandrawal and Wazirabad was being taken directly from Munak Canal and the Delhi sub-branch and only about 80 million gallons per day from the Yamuna. On Sunday, both were not working,” said a senior official.
 
 The new treatment plants at Chandrawal and Wazirabad will come equipped with the facility for ozonation and activated carbon to treat high levels of ammonia. However, both will take a few years for completion. 
 
 “We have complained innumerable times to   and the Centre against the polluted effluent being discharged into the river. However, no action is taken and Delhi has to shut its water treatment plants multiple times a year due to unmanageable pollution in raw water,” said the official.
 
