NASHIK: An increasing number of Nashik consumers of Maharashtra State   Company Ltd ( ) are now paying their electricity bills online. The data shared by the power utility company showed that   payments in 2016 jumped by 60% as compared to 2015. 

 The number of consumers making online payments stood at 82,876 in the month of Dec 2015 as against 1.31 lakh in Dec 2016. However, considering the total number of MSEDCL consumers across the state making online payments, Nashik’s contribution is only 5 per cent.
 
 The MSEDCL has launched an application service through which not only consumers can pay their bills, but at the same time register their queries and complaints. Though this feature has been added in the recent past, the company has been appealing to the people go take up online payments since the past four years.
 
 “There has been a quantum leap in number of consumers opting for   services by 2016-end when compared to a year earlier. Among other factors, the demonetisation carried out by the government of India has been the biggest contributor,” Nashik Zone chief general manager Deepak Kumthekar said.
 
 “There was a major hitch among the populace here which believed that online payments were unsafe. Every time our engineers met and asked the people to pay it through online system – sometime till before demonetisation was carried out in November — the people were largely reluctant. But after that the picture changed drastically,” a senior officer from MSEDCL said.
 
 “Nashik is still lagging way behind other major cities as far as online-payments are concerned. The numbers have rose only from 3.52 percent (Dec 2015) to 5.61 percent of the existing consumers till December 2016,” he added.
 
 The online   for the company has jumped from 5.8% in Nashik urban areas to 9.08%. The number of consumers in Ahmednagar district (circle) in Nashik Zone has gone up from 2.29% to 3.69%, while in Malegaon circle (rural division of Nashik district) the jump was from 1.09% to 2.11%.
 
