Kochi: Several parents were entrusting the safety of their children with alcoholics, it was revealed on Friday after police arrested 36 men found driving school vehicles under the influence.

 The men were arrested for drunk, rash and negligent driving during a five-hour surprise drive that began at 6am in four districts, Ernakulam, Alappuzha, Idukki and  , police said.
 
 Highlighting the seriousness of the issue, inspector-general of police (Ernakulam range) P Vijayan said that “anyone found drunk so early in the morning should be a chronic alcoholic. They are risking the children’s life.”
 
 The officer added that such people were even driving vehicles ferrying tiny tots to kindergartens.
 
 Officers said while some of the arrested drivers were visibly drunk, a few others could barely stand.
 
 “We arrested one Rajesh of Vypeen driving the vehicle of a Kochi-based CBSE school. He had about 40% alcohol in his blood,” Central police sub-inspector   said, adding that 10% alcohol content in one’s blood could be considered as the person being drunk.
 
 Drivers attached to a few elite schools in Kochi were also among those arrested.
 
 “We have issued notices to the schools. If any of the guidelines for drivers are violated again, the school will be held responsible and strict action will be taken against them,” said Yathish Chandra, deputy police commissioner.
 
 He said school are responsible for the safe travel of their students.
 
 The Ernakulam rural police booked 14 drivers for drunk driving. The cases were registered in Aluva, North Parur, Mulanthuruty, Vadakkekara, Perumbavoor, Kuruppampady, Kottapady, Ramamangalam and Kothamangalam police stations.
 
 In Alappuzha 13 cases were registered, and Kochi city five, police said. In Kottayam, three drivers were arrested. One man was held in Idukki.
 
 Ernakulam range IG who initiated the drive said parents and school authorities would be informed about the situation.
 
 “The parents should ensure that they are sending their child in vehicles being driven safely. Schools should ensure not to appoint alcoholics,” Vijayan said.
 
 Information gathered during several interactions with children and tip-offs provided by student police cadets resulted in the drive. The interactions were part of Clean Campus Safe Campus drive.
 
 
