NEW DELHI: Taking a humanitarian view, high court on Thursday ordered   to disburse the salary for February and 25 percent of past arrears of 2016 to its workers to help them meet essential expenses, including paying their children’s school fees.

 The matter has reached court after a tussle between the LG and DCW over payment of salaries to staffers. Justice   initially said salaries for February must be released if “work was taken from them (workers), they have to be paid”. Later HC also allowed payment of an additional 25 percent of salary arrears of for the duration between September 2016 to December 2016 after the   said they were facing shortage of funds to meet regular expenses such as school fees.
 
 During the hearing LG urged the court not to release payments since he has already appointed a panel to go into legality of the DCW appointments. The LG’s office argued since the committee’s report is likely to be ready by March 13 and is expected to have a solution to the entire dispute, status quo should be maintained.
 
 But HC was not convinced and noted that the workers have already undertaken work. “The appointments may be illegal, but if you have taken work from them, they have to be paid. You cannot take pro-bono work from them. Not everyone is fortunate to have a bank balance,” the judge pointed out.
 
 Delhi government’s standing counsel Rahul Mehra argued that in any case secretary of department of women and child development (DWCD) should not be the secretary of DCW, nor should she be a part of the committee set up by the LG, a point which DCW Chairperson   has been raising in the past.
 
 Justice Sachdeva however, refused to go into this aspect or to interfere with the set-up of the panel and listed the matter for hearing on March 30
 
 The court on December 22 last had directed DCW to pay 50 percent arrears of the salary of four months after 97 workers moved court claiming they were not paid since September 2016. These employees were appointed by DCW to work on various helplines and rehabilitation cells for women including rape crisis cells.
 
 
