NEW DELHI: A week after saying that   was a `common law right', the Centre on Friday told the   that privacy of   of internet and social network users was embedded in the right to life guaranteed under Article 21of the Constitution.

 Before a nine-judge bench of the SC hearing the validity of Aadhaar, challenged on the grounds of violating the right to privacy , attorney general K K Venugopal had cited two SC judgments--one by an eightjudge bench in 1954 and another by a six-judge bench in 1962--to argue that privacy was a   and petitioners could not complain about breach of privacy due to collection of biometric data of citizens for Aadhaar.
 
 On Friday , a five-judge bench headed by Justice Dipak Misra was hearing a petition filed by one Karmanya Singh, who alleged that after Facebook acquired WhatsApp, users were forced to accept a privacy policy that allows WhatsApp to access messages, call details and data transfer details in violation of right to privacy .WhatsApp and Facebook have denied the charge and said privacy was protected as messaging was end-to-end encrypted.
 
 As arguments heated up between senior advocates Harish Salve and Kapil Sibal, who crossed swords for the petitioner and WhatsApp, respectively , additional solicitor general P S Narasimha stepped in and said, “Personal data is an extension of an individual's personality . Data of a personality is integral to right to life guaranteed under Article 21. If any contractual agreement impinges on the privacy of personal data, it violates Article 21. At this juncture, the government has power and obligation to step in.“
 
 But all concerned, including the bench and all sides to the dispute, agreed that the issue of privacy would need to be addressed. All concerned in the privacy dispute on Friday agreed that it might be best to wait till the issue was settled by the nine-judge bench hearing the challenge to Aadhar on the grounds that privacy was a fundamental right. The government, in the Aadhaar case, is arguing that reasonable restrictions can be imposed on an individual's privacy .
 
 Salve accused WhatsApp of taking advantage of its near monopoly in the free messaging platform to force users to believe that if they did not agree with the privacy policy , they would not be able to enjoy the service. “It may be WhatsApp today and Uber tomorrow or any other ticketing services run by non-state players. The question is can they use my personal data for commercial exploitation? Is this not violation of privacy? If it is done by telecom players, government will come down heavily on them. Let the government come out with modalities to regulate WhatsApp and similar services,“ he said.
 
 Sibal said millions of users had no problem about WhatsApp privacy policy . “Why only two petitioners have problems with WhatsApp when similar datasharing is going on on all platforms? There is a design in targeting WhatsApp. If any injury is caused to any user because of data-sharing, WhatsApp will be liable. But government cannot regulate on mere possibility ,“ he argued. The bench said, “Why cannot court say because you (WhatsApp) are providing a public service, you cannot impose conditions on users and tell them they can access the service only if they accept privacy policy? Are you not curtailing free choice?“ But, the bench, Salve, Sibal and Narasimha agreed that the issue of defining right to privacy would crop up at some stage during hearing of the petition and that it would be better to await the verdict of 9-judge bench deliberating on constitutional status of right to privacy . The bench posted the matter for hearing in the first week of September, by which time Justice Dipak Misra would be the CJI.
 
 In April, Centre had informed SC that it would formulate a regulatory regime, similar to one for all telecom operators, for Over-The-Top (OTT) services such as WhatsApp, Facebook, Skype, WeChat and Google Talk.
 
