Coimbatore: Activist and student of Periyar University M Valarmathi is under the constant vigil of the police. After almost two months of activism and imprisonment under the Goondas Act, the 23-year-old post-graduate student of mass communication will join college on Wednesday. She presumes that she will be treated differently hereafter. 

 “I have been asked to submit the Goondas Act orders and other documents to join college. I will be joining college on Wednesday most probably,” said Valarmathi. She has been attending classes for a week but attendance has not been marked as formalities have not been completed. “My teachers are asked to provide details about my whereabouts to the police constantly. Records of my attendance and related details are submitted regularly to the police,” she said.
 
 Valarmathi feels that it is unnecessary torture for her teachers and the college administration. Asked if she is restricted from taking part in college activities or events, she said, “It has not been a week since I returned to the college. Until now, there is no special treatment. But I expect some restrictions.”
 
 It is not like Valarmathi is the only student who is at the receiving end for raising her voice against public issues. 
 
 Speaking to TOI, district general secretary of All India Students’ Federation (AISF) M Gunasekar said, “There are about 30 students in the city who are being tortured by their college managements for taking part in the jallikattu protest. The pressure is more after directions to prevent protest against NEET.” 
 
 He added, “The police have prepared a list of students who were present during the jallikattu protest at the VOC Ground. These students are threatened by college managements to not take part in protests.”
 
 There are instances of students being removed from the hostel for taking part in protests. Students are restricted from activities on campus because of their indiscipline in the past.
 
 College managements say that it is right for students to voice their opinions and views. “But, it should be done in a constructive way. An institution should constantly engage with students in formal or informal ways and organise discussions or even debates,” said a representative of an engineering college management.
 
 In case of public issues, it is dicey for college managements. On one side, they cannot oppose the protest because it involves public sentiment (issues like Jallikattu and NEET), and on the other side, the protest is anti-establishment. The college management representative said, “If students wish to take part in protests, it should be done at an individual level with their parents informed.”
 
 Psychologists say that it is right for the college managements to be strict about actions against students who indulge in protest on campus. Chennai-based psychologist Shalini Suresh, said, “For a college, it is about safety- not just about one student, but thousands. Even if a single student is hurt, parents will hold the college responsible.” She added, “A student is suspended only after being given two or three warnings. Or if the offence is severe.”
 
 Shalini feels that students can be provocative. “There can be difference opinion and it can result in clash between two groups on campus. At the same time, they can be of a threat to the other students at hostel,” she added.
 
 
