KANPUR: Dissatisfied with performance of the local MLA of her constituency, an MBA passout Pratima Chak decided to contest election and serve the people. Chak (26) is in poll fray from   constituency and the youngest among 146 candidates from 10 Assembly seats in the district. Ajay Kapoor from Congress is the sitting MLA from the constituency from where Pratima filed her nomination.

 Wearing a confident smile, Pratima reached district collectorate on Tuesday to file her nomination papers. A candidate from lesser known Desh Shakti Party, Pratima arrived here without any pomp and show. She was accompanied by just five supporters and party’s national president SN Chak.
 
 Most of the youngsters want to do a job after completing MBA but Pratima took a very different route by choosing politics as her area of working. Talking to TOI, Pratima said that she wants to serve people as she has seen MLAs doing nothing for them except making false promises. She reiterated that she wants to serve underprivileged and downtrodden sections of the society.
 
 The thought of contesting election came to her mind when she observed that the local MLA failed in addressing the grievances of the people of the constituency. “Attending marriages and funerals is not the only work of an MLA. MLAs should listen to the greviances of the people. After passing my MBA in 2013, I was looking for some organization to join so that I could work for the betterment of the underprivileged. Then I came across people from Desh Shakti Party and I joined it in 2014,” she said.
 
 “For last two years, I am interacting with the people of my area and trying to understand their problems. People only want basic amenities from their leaders which they should provide to them, but most of the times they fail to do so,” she added.
 
 When asked how will she campaign and where will the funds come for her campaigning, Pratima said that she will go door-to-door to hold her campaign and urge people to vote for her for bringing a change. “I have limited sources of earning and little savings, the campaigning would also be simple. I will try to reach those areas of my constituency where no politician goes even during the election time," she added. 
 
 When asked who is her role model in politics, she said that she do not like any political leader but follows the principles of Bhim Rao Ambedkar. “I would walk on the path laid by Ambedkar as he had never differentiated between anyone irrespective of any background, I have respect for all and will work for all,” she added.
 
