Mussoorie/Dehradun/Nainital: For many in the hill state, the new year’s advent was marked by tem being stuck in bumper-to-bumper traffic at popular holiday destinations. With massive jams along the road to Mussoorie on Saturday evening, police had to stop all vehicles bound for the hill station outside Dehradun after 7pm, forcing many revellers to return from mid-way. It was a jam-packed evening in Nainital too, with the lake town's   chock-a-block with tourists till late in the night.
 
 Commuters faced difficulty at various places in the capital, especially  .
  
  The situation was worse beyond   with long lines of cars and two-wheelers at Jakhan and Mussoorie diversion as people rushed towards Mussoorie after hearing that snowfall had occurred there earlier in the day. Despite large numbers of traffic police personnel being deployed on the road to manage the rush, vehicular movement was reduced to a crawl.
  
  By 6.30 pm, all movement towards Mussoorie was stopped and a sign saying ‘Mussoorie is full’ was put up on Kuthalgate (the entry point to the hill station). Only tourists with booking in hotels were allowed.
 
 After the experience, several people who tried for hours to reach Mussoorie and failed slammed the facilities available. The first day of the new year saw several tourists stranded for hours either waiting at the Picture Palace or Library Junction or midway in the jam from Mussoorie to Dehradun.
  
 “I’ve been waiting for the past four hours to get a bus. There is simply no traffic coming up. This is so not how I had imagined my new year to start” said  , a tourist.
  
 On Sunday, senior superintendent of police (SSP)   said, “A large number of people had gone to Mussoorie on December 31. Many have started coming down on Sunday but some people are still there.”
  
 Nainital also saw a heavy inflow of tourists. The town’s Flats area, mainly used for sporting practice, had to be converted into a parking lot to accommodate vehicles, which kept coming in.
