HYDERABAD: Over 48 hours after thunderstorms and   lashed the city on Wednesday night, low-lying areas such Indira Nagar and Raghavendra Nagar in Nacharam continue to be inundated. According to civic officials, normalcy is expected to return to these areas by Saturday if there is no further rainfall.“A total of 10 machines have been pressed into action to pump out water from these areas. Everything will get back to normal provided there no heavy downpour again," said S Pankaja, deputy commissioner, Nacharam division,  .

 With these two colonies flooded due to the overflow of Nacharama Nala and HMT Nagar Lake, locals are panic stricken and were moving to safer places in hoards. “I have locked my house and am moving to my in-laws place. I shifted some electronics goods to the upper shelves of my house to keep them safe. I wanted to shift to a safer place on Thursday but was unable to do so as the stretch was completely inundated,“ said Krishna M, a resident of Indira Nagar who had to wade through knee deep water in his locality .
 
 Airing similar grievances, residents of Raghavendra Nagar said their colony saw water levels go as high as three feet. “On Wednesday when I tried to step out of my house to get the food packets being distributed by GHMC staff, I found the water level was over my waist. Today it has thankfully come down to knee level," said a college student residing in Raghavendra Colony .
 
 The water entered Nacharam Nala from Banda Chervu. The nala connecting Bandachervu to Nacharam was 12 metre wide, but has since been to 2.5 meter width due to encroachments, which is the primary reason for the flooding of Nacharam as well as Malkajgiri, civic officials said. On the other hand, it was water from Safilguda Lake,   Lake and Kapra Lake that entered Banda Cheruvu.
 
 Meanwhile, water has be en drained out of other parts of the city that were inundated on Thursday including East Anand Bagh in Malkajgiri, Sai Nagar Colony at LB Nagar Circle and Kukatpally .
 
 
