HYDERABAD: District collectors who gathered in the city on Monday for a conference with chief minister   and cabinet ministers were left pleasantly surprised to hear him say: “Do not come under any political pressure whatsoever.”

 The collectors were also given the liberty to take their own decisions, when needed, within the broad framework of government policy. But the freedom came with certain responsibilities — maintain transparency, extract work from employees and map human resources. Added to that was a warning to be cautious and make no mistakes while implementing development and welfare programmes.
 
 The collectors’ meet was also a time for free interaction, with   asking them to bring up any issue. A few collectors pointed out that there were no doctors in rural areas, especially tribal hamlets. The chief minister immediately asked the chief secretary to work out a multi-pronged strategy to get doctors and nurses to work in remote areas.
 
 Collectors were given the responsibility of identifying nearly 10 lakh beneficiaries for the various schemes introduced by the government such as sheep-breeding two bedroom houses as well as pensions for single women and beedi workers. 
 
 But unlike freedom from political pressure, the collectors were told not to play king in the 2BHK housing scheme. “The MLA will determine the number,” KCR said, while adding that the collectors must develop transparent methods to identify beneficiaries and adopt a lottery system to select them.
 
 Chandrasekhar Rao also gave prime importance to the sheep-breeding scheme and said the plan was to make the state a hub for meat export in the coming years. “In the next two years, sheep breeding may create wealth of Rs 20,000 crore for the state,” he said.
 
 Emphasis was also given to the KCR kits, which would be distributed to pregnant women from June 2, the state formation day. He said the idea of the scheme was borrowed from  . Under this, a pregnant woman will get Rs 14,000, inclusive of the kit worth Rs 2,000. If a girl child is born, the mother will be given an additional Rs 1,000. The   will also be introduced from June 2. Collectors and SPs would have their new office complexes by the end of the year, the CM said.
 
