JAIPUR: Crime branch of   on Wednesday busted an   involved in extracting debit card and credit card information from the customers and later siphoning off lakhs of rupees. The six arrested accused used to take their families for outing to Lonawala and Khandala from the money they were earning from cheating. 

 Claiming it to be a biggest catch ever, police said, out of six arrested, five are from Pune and one from Mumbai. All the arrested youths belonged to Jamtara district of Jharkhand who had shifted their base to Pune after local police started crackdown two years ago. Police have seized Rs 10 lakh cash, 15 mobile phones, 15 SIM cards and seven ATM cards from the possession of the gang.
 
 As more than 500 cases of cybercrime frauds were registered at various police stations in the city, police and its technical surveillance teams were on the job of tracking the IP addresses, mobile phone numbers used in conning people.
 
 “It is a result of well-coordinated efforts and technical surveillance as we managed to arrest six youths,” said Sanjay Agarwal, commissioner of police on Wednesday. 
 
 “Five accused who were arrested from Taleygaon Dhabhrey village of Maharastra included Yusuf (36), Mukhtiyar (27), Akhtar (26), all natives of Jamtara (Jharkhand) and Sanjay Singhey (26) and Shailesh both natives of Talegaon Dhabrey in Pune district,” said Agarwal. One accused identified as Dinesh Mandal was arrested from Mumbai. 
 
 On the modus operandi, commissioner said that the new system evolved by the bank in which most of the nationalized and private banks are adding Aadhaar card numbers of the customers became their way of cheating. 
 
 “They used to call up people as bankers and used to tell them that their saving account is been blocked since the customer failed to provide Aadhaar card number. Later, when subscribing to this idea when the victim used to share Aadhaar card number they used to ask them about the 16-digit number on the debit card and CCV number on the back of it. Thereafter the money was transferred through online shopping,” said Vikas Pathak, deputy commissioner of police(Crime) while sharing the modus operandi of the gang. 
 
 Police said that despite regular advise to the people on not disclosing their debit card and credit card details over phone many still get trapped. 
 
 “It was also found during primary investigation that all the six youth have studied till Class VIII and mastered this skill of cheating from Jamtara district of Jharkhand,” Pathak added. 
 
 Police investigation also suggested that the gang had made thousand calls in past few months in almost 23 states across the country. 
 
 “We have also seized nearly Rs 10 lakh as cash and it is found that nearly Rs 58 lakh were credited into accounts belonged to these conmen in the past six months,” he said. 
 
 Lavish lifestyle
 
 All accused used to live in a flat by paying rent of Rs 15,000 per month 
 
 They used to take their families for outing to Lonawala and Khandala
 
 They had got sim cards by giving fake documents from Tamil Nadu and other parts of the country 
 
 The gang had made 85,000 calls out of which 50,000 calls were made in Rajasthan 
 
