CHENNAI:   ministers are contradicting each other with their statements on former chief minister J  's hospitalisation, which, until recently, was a taboo subject.

 On Tuesday , cooperation minister Sellur K Raju said he and all other ministers had seen the former CM in hospital. ''All ministers, including me, saw her in the hospital,'' Sellur Raju told reporters, on the sidelines of a meeting of his department.
 
 His senior colleague and forest minister Dindigul C Sreenivasan had, on Sunday , said it was a “lie“ that they had called on an ailing Jayalalithaa in the hospital.
 
 Countering Sreenivasan, minister Nilofer Kafeel said on Tuesday that she saw Jayalalithaa in a conscious state while she was “shifted out of the intensive care unit. “ Another minister Nilofer Kafeel insisted she saw Jayalalithaa) in the hospital when she was “shifted out of intensive care into the ward“. She told reporters, “Amma was conscious. I saw her.“
 
 Earlier, Sreenivasan said he had lied about visiting Jayalalithaa in hospital and that none of “them“ had met the ailing leader. During a public meeting in Dindigul on Saturday , Sreenivasan sought people's pardon for “lying“ about Jayalalithaa's health and saying she had eaten idlis and chutney .
 
 He said there was restriction on visitors going into her room and even Union finance minister Arun Jaitley and Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi met only the hospital chairman.
 
 Ministers D Jayakumar and R B Udhayakumar, however, sought to tone down the divergent views expressed by their colleagues. “These are personal observations of ministers. Information should be presented before the inquiry commission,“ they said. On Monday, the government constituted a one-man inquiry commission led by A Arumughaswamy to probe Jayalalithaa's death.
 
 Party sources say the chief minister is considering appointing an official spokesperson for the government and the party . Chief minister Palaniswami and deputy CM O Panneerselvam have been unable to rein in their colleagues. “The dissenting voices during re-allotment of portfolios last month are an example,“said a leader.
 
 “The orders of the Madras high court and the Election Commission on the fate of the EPS government and AIADMK, which is due soon, will help put things in perspective. Though the two leaders EPS and OPS are vested with powers, they are not confident enough to act now,“ said a senior minister, seeking anonymity .
 
 Jayalalithaa appointed 14 spokespersons, but many were uncomfortable getting into their role during the turbulent days. While Nanjil Sampath and C R Saraswathi sided with rebel leader T T V Dhinakaran, some are fence sitters and not in the scheme of things. Former MP K C Palaniswamy and Kovai Selvaraj fiercely advocate a unified party in TV channel debates.
 
