 is coming out with a family film - ' ' - which is a bit of a family venture as well, at a point of time when family ties in   are the subject of much analysis. The forever-reinventing-never-ageing actor explains how he has seen both sides of this - and neither is easy.

  
 
 I have done it in my life and relationships also. It’s all about reinventing yourself. We can't take ourselves for granted. So I reinvent myself as a husband also. Sunita is doing it as a wife. Constantly kuch aisa karo, kuch na kuch surprise element, kuch aisi cheezein, jisse we keep our relationship alive. We have been together 43 years! We have to do something to bring a smile on our face, be happy. We all have ups and downs in career in life, and that’s what I am trying to do as a father also. I am constantly experimenting - but not just as an actor. I am a work in progress.
 
  
 
 My film is releasing on the 28th and three days later, on the 31st, I am going to Munich for my leg injury that needs to be treated. Today, I am promoting and dancing, but at the back of my mind is ki isko theek karna hai. I am fragile at the moment. Everybody has something, one problem or another. We are in a profession which is perishable.
 
  
 
 Now you have to work hard, mentally, physically, spiritually. Toh jitna aap kaam karenge utna aapka expiry date late hoga. Some people burn themselves out. I haven't.
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 Galatfehmi mein nahin hoon na main. And before people can say ki yeh role karna band kar yaar, suit nahin kar raha - iske pehle koi aur bole, khud hi band kar deta hoon. Somewhere I feel like doing an entertaining film, a light film, and then in between doing a Dil Dhadakne Do. I have always mixed it from the beginning of my career. Do what people expect from you, par beech-beech mein, surprise them, shock them, thoda bahut business kam hoga, par chalega.
 
  
 
 Yes. And it was nice to be in the National Awards for that, the director got Dadasaheb Phalke Award. And I kept on saying that my work is thanks to K Vishwanath. How he moulded me.
 
  
 
 Starts from Bapu, then K Vishwanath, Subhash Ghai, Yash Chopra, Javed Akhtar saab, Shekhar Kapur and Danny Boyle. Even the director of Mission Impossible, Brad Bird. MS Sathyu ke saath kaam kiya hai, that everybody has forgotten about - Kahan Kahan Se Guzar Gaya. Nobody has seen the film I think, but for me it was a learning experience. Joh log abhi kar rahe hain, maine yeh sab unke saath kiya. Then there is Anupam, Feroz Abbas Khan, Satish Kaushik, Boney, Shabanaji, Anees Bazmi - kuch baat hain unme. We have collaborated for ten projects, this is my fourth film with him. Aaj kal kahan actors ek director ke saath itni film karte hain... They know the Indian psyche. Western culture se influenced film bhi kar saktein hain hum, woh bhi pudhiya bandh ke de sakte hain. Di bhi hai. Par izzat sabki karo. Understand everybody, respect everybody. Think from their point of view, kya soch rahein hai, kya bana rahe hain, kaise bana rahe hain. After all, it is a business also. Why should anybody be apologetic about their business model? Why look down, ki iss kism ki films banata hai toh aisa hai. To each his own.
 
  
 
 When my son was born, I kept his name Harshvardhan. I felt he should be totally different from me. When he did his first film, maine kisiko bataya nahin ki yeh film hai, kya film hai. Toh end mein sab panic mein aa gaye, ki yaar kisi ko pata hi nahin hai - 99% of people didn't know he was my son. He and the film were both presented as totally unlike me. Log bhool chuke thay ki maine bhi apna career aise start kiya tha. 
 
  Yeh thinking bhi hai ki mere paas itna kuch hai, toh main apne bachchon ko kyun na doon. It’s a very Indian, emotional way to think. Har business mein hai yeh. You equally respect those who make it on their own. Pain dono mein hai. Isme pain hai ki kyun unnecessarily run down kar rahe ho, what can we do if we are born in this family? Uss taraf bhi pain hai. I have also thought that way - aaj mujhe bura lagta hai ki jab maine apna career shuru kiya tha toh main aisa sochta tha for Sunny Deol and Sanjay Dutt, that they had it much easier because they had Dharmendra and Sunil Dutt.
 
  
  
 
  
 
 Yes, and as I said, I think both sides have equal pain. And sometimes more pain when you are someone's child. That’s why I made the film 'Gandhi', My Father. I could relate to the subject. A man who could save the soul of a whole nation could not save the soul of his own son. I felt that he could have been better. We played it safe and tried to be balanced, but people wanted to see the contrast. That’s why the film didn't do well. So it's painful for both the haves and the have-nots. And I have felt both - earlier for me, and now when people say unnecessary things for Harsh and Sonam. But that's part of life. It now depends on them as individuals, how they both fight this, rise above it and succeed and make people forget about it. Platter pe kuch nahin milne wala hai.
 
  
 
 I am both. I am a work in progress.
 
  
 
 In today's time it is better to be a friend, and be firm sometimes. It has to be a combination. More a friend, but there should be a line.
 
  
 
 They have been brought up that way. And my wife keeps on saying ki bolte raho kuch na kuch, something will stick. Pyaar se, hans ke, joke mein, moment dekh ke, bol dene ka. Phir bhi galtiyan hoti hain, as a parent. I think you should let the children be. Let them try to fulfil their dreams, and help them and back them.
 
  
 
 It depends. What we are doing in 'Mubarakan', for instance, is address the biggest problem we see today among friends, family, colleagues - chhoti-chhoti baaton par ego hai, friction hai. And they don't talk to each other. So the walls and conflicts keep growing. If there is someone who can put sense into them, ki together you are fantastic. There should always be someone jiska koi agenda na ho, joh milke kaam karaye. That's the message. Which is stronger than trying to cater only to the youngsters or only to the parents. It is a combination.
 
  
 
 There are always differences with everyone. That’s why someone should be there to put some sense.
 
  
 
 I think my wife. "Chalo Boney ko phone lagao, chalo Sanjay ke ghar chalte hain, chalo usko bulao"... Hum toh busy ho jaate hain, so Sunita has been fantastic that way - "Message ka jawab kyun nahin diya?! Check now, answer now! Kitna time lagta hai jawab dene ke liye!" Ek aise insaan ka life mein hona zaroori hai. Ki apna agenda bhool kar, sabko saath laaye.
 
  
 
 
  Chhor do usko thodi der ke liye. There are some who bloom with space, with leaving them alone. You have to know what works for whom. 
 
  
 
 Arey meri zindagi ka work in progress chal raha hai! Bahut cheezein karni hai. Publisher ne bola log abhi padhna chah rahe hain, jab likhna chahoge, tab shayad koi padhna hi na chahe. Maine suni woh baat - and that made me work even harder.
 
  
 
 Yes.
 
  
 
 I think now it will have more value. Which I am happy about. It will have more exposure, not necessarily monetarily.
 
  
 
 Woh maine humesha kiya hai. I love reading about cinema. Now you can watch so much also.
 
  
  
 
  
 
 Modi sahab! The way he is relentlessly working, travelling, running the country. I would like to ask him. Kaise din shuru hota hai, kaise khatm hota hai. 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 I feel I am not equipped enough. There are better people to talk about it. I don't want to comment on something I don't understand fully. Halki baat nahin karna chahta. Jab main karunga, main ghus ke karunga, danke ki chot pe karunga. Galat ho, sahi ho, I will do with full conviction. Right now, I’m not qualified. 
 
  
 
 Yes. Come to think of it, I have been saying this for 25 years!
 
 
  
 
