PUNE: Notices have been issued to some   in the city for misusing government land granted for construction some five to six decades ago.

 Nearly 150 acres of government land was granted to these   under various schemes in the city according to the district administration. Officials have now initiated the process of issuing notices and taking action against these societies and is expected to complete the process within the next three months.
 
 The work of issuing notices was delayed because of the civic body and zilla parishad elections but the administration started issuing the notices from last month.
 
 “We have initiated the process of issuing notices to approximately 50 cooperative housing societies which have misused land. It could be in terms of leasing the land or flat without permission or even going ahead with illegal construction on this land. We issue the notice for violation of rules and the society has to pay the penalty. Land has been used for commercial purpose without permission,’’ resident deputy collector   said.
 
 As many as 128 cooperative housing societies in the city are on the district administration's radar for misuse of government land they were allotted decades ago. 
 
 Parvati area, with 61 such societies, tops the list, while Shivajinagar, old city areas, Erandwane, Yerawada and Ghorpadi are close behind. Fourteen four-member teams have been set up following orders of collector Saurabh Rao for initiating the drive.
 
 Muthe added that government land allotted to these societies cannot be sold or leased without the permission of the collector. Their team has been instructed to check every detail of the use of land and whether there have been any sale deeds or other breach of conditions. 
 
 These government land plots were allotted for low-cost housing projects especially for government officials, army officials or for rehabilitation of project affected or flood-affected families nearly 50-60 years ago. The land was given according to various government resolutions (GR) and officials never checked how they were used.
 
 With the government now keen to re-frame the rules to let these housing societies freehold ownership of the land by paying to the government to fill up the government exchequer, the drives to check for any kind of misuse has been initiated after which the reported cases will be sent to the government. 
 
