PATNA: No university of the state has so far implemented the UGC (Minimum Standards and Procedure for Award of MPhil/PhD Degrees) Regulations, 2016 due to which scholars are finding it difficult to pursue their  . Taking serious note of their sufferings, the chancellor’s secretariat has initiated a move for framing uniform ordinance and regulations for MPhil/PhD course in all the varsities in light of the revised  . The draft ordinance will soon be circulated after its approval by  .

 Expressing concern over delay in implementation of the revised MPhil/PhD regulations, Patna University (PU) vice-chancellor (VC) Ras Bihari Prasad Singh said the chancellor had asked him to help prepare a draft ordinance at the earliest. “PU has entrusted this task to its statutes committee headed by social science faculty dean and economics department head Kumidini Sinha. The draft ordinance and regulations prepared by the committee will be placed before the academic council at its next meeting on May 27 for approval,” he added.
 
 The revised UGC MPhil/PhD guidelines of 2009 were implemented in the universities of Bihar in 2012 and even before they could fully adopt the guidelines, the UGC issued fresh guidelines in 2016. Among other things, the latest guidelines suggest that the   programme shall be for a minimum duration of three years (instead of two years as prescribed earlier), including course work and a maximum of six years (instead of four years). Disabled people may be allowed a relaxation of two years and women candidates provided maternity leave once in entire duration of PhD for up to 240 days.
 
 The guidelines further suggest that only a full time regular teacher of a university can act as a supervisor. Even retired teachers cannot be supervisors. 
 
 The UGC has asked all the universities to implement the UGC (Minimum Standards and Procedure for Award of MPhil/PhD Degrees) Regulations, 2016 at the earliest and display all the details of research work on their respective websites on an annual basis. In its recent circular, it pointed out that the new regulations have become operational from the date of their publication (July 5, 2016) in the Gazette of India. There are certain procedures which the universities need to undertake like following the eligibility criteria for admission to the MPhil/PhD programme, duration of the programme, procedure for admission, allocation of research supervisor, course work, setting up of research advisory committee, following the evaluation and assessment methods and submitting the electronic copy of MPhil/PhD thesis to INFLIBNET (an interuniversity centre of UGC), besides other clauses as per the regulations.
 
