PATNA: President   on Friday advised   and   to follow the development model of   for human capital development and invest in education sector more than what would happens under normal circumstances as a part of their future strategy.
 
  Appreciating both Bihar and Jharkhand governments, the President said while Bihar economy has been steady over the past one decade with an annual growth rate at 10.5%, Jharkhand is slowly transforming itself into an economy with larger share of service sector.
  
  Addressing an international conference on ‘Bihar and Jharkhand: Shared history to shared vision’ as part of the silver jubilee celebrations of   (ADRI), the President said, “Bihar and Jharkhand are at a crossroads and one wonders which path they would tread in near future to meet the aspirations of their own people. And these aspirations are now much higher than before, thanks to the recent political mobilization in the region which has brought into power a new section of the people who were politically marginalized till recently. I request the policy makers to unleash productive forces of the economy and not just unquestionably follow a path of industrialization. Human development could be indeed the alternative development strategy for the two states.”
  
  The five-day conference is supported by  .
  
  Mukherjee cited the example of Bangladesh and how it trod the path of development after being carved out from the Bengal Presidency in 1971. “It is possible for the disadvantaged regions to change their comparative advantage from low-skill, labour-intensive goods and services to more skill-intensive goods and services provider through deliberate human development,” he said.
  
  “One of the main components of the alternative development strategy can be to prioritize investment in education sector. However, education does not only mean economic advantage for the educated persons. It has some other important advantages as well; it empowers people and also promotes their participation in both development programmes and the political process,” Mukherjee said.
  
  The President said even non-state actors like the civil society can play an important role in development. “In most of the developing nations, which attained their independence in the middle of the previous century, the institution of state is considered to be very pervading with very limited space for non-state actors. However, state can do many things, but not everything. Non-state factors do play an important role in development,” he said.
  
  Speaking on the occasion, Bihar governor Ram Nath Kovind said, “The challenges of development in Bihar and Jharkhand are indeed enormous. It is the joint responsibility of the Centre and the state governments to meet this challenge squarely. But the government efforts need to be supported by extensive research on both social and economic issues for bringing about the desired change.”
