MUMBAI: A first-year resident doctor of the BMC-run   was manhandled late on Saturday evening by the relatives of a 60-year-old woman, who allegedly died of  . This is the third incident of assault on a doctor from Maharashtra this week and comes within 48 hours of a massive demonstration by the medical fraternity to protest against such attacks. 

 The resident doctors of the hospital immediately shot a letter to the hospital management stating that they won't be able to render their services till strong action was initiated against the attackers. In a letter addressed to dean Dr Suleman Merchant, the doctors also alleged that the incident took place in the presence of the hospital security guards. The doctors said that the news of the patient's demise upset the relatives, even though they were explained about her health condition and the bad prognosis. 
 
 The deceased Rekha Singh was admitted to ward 20 at 12.11am on Saturday. Doctors at the hospital said, "The patient was a case of chronic kidney disease due to interstitial nephritis and presented with fluid overload." She had undergone dialysis early in the day. However, her condition started to deteriorate in the evening. She ultimately succumbed at 10.05pm on Saturday. The patient's family could not be contacted for comments.
 
 A hospital source told TOI that first year resident doctor from medicine department Rohit Kumar was beaten up by the relatives at around 10.30pm when the news of her death was broken to the relatives. Soon after, doctors from all departments gathered at the hospital premises and demanded immediate police intervention. The resident doctors said that they were scared to work in such circumstances. There were no clear details about the nature of injuries that Dr Kumar had suffered.
 
 The Sion hospital incident is likely to add fuel to the simmering fire among the medical fraternity over the recurrent attacks on doctors and medical establishments. Last week, a Mumbai doctor who was practising in a Dhule government hospital was brutally beaten up by the relatives of an accident victim. It is feared that the attack may have permanently damaged his left eye.
 
