NAGPUR: It’s almost as if   has hit the reset button for all of its major academic initiatives started in the last couple of years. Close on the heels of scrapping school-based STD X exam and canning the open book test for STD IX & XI, CBSE has now pulled the plug for its ambitious international board curriculum called CBSE-i. It was in 2012 that the board invited applications from schools to adopt CBSE-i, though it had already been initiated as a pilot project in select schools. 

 But now just four years later about 180 students of   (JIS), the only one to offer CBSE-i in Nagpur, find themselves at the receiving end of a sudden decision taken by CBSE. Students however won’t loose out academically as all of them would be absorbed into the school’s existing CBSE main curriculum set-up.  , principal of the school said, “Parents at our school were very understanding about the whole thing and all of them will remain within the JIS fold. They were aware that what we had been teaching was over and above the mandated course material. The comparison was easy for parents because the entire CBSE-i syllabi was always available online.”
 
 Going by the board’s version, it was failure of both ‘operational’ and academic aspects that led to their decision. The board’s joint secretary   wrote to schools that “several issues relating to operational difficulties, including availability of quality reading material of global standard, were noticed”. The issue was discussed in detail in the   meet held in December and later in the Governing Body meet. Feedback was also sought from government owned consultancy unit and ultimately CBSE decided to put a lid on their six year-old project. A notice was sent to all school directing them ‘not to offer CBSE-i curriculum from the session 2017-18. Consequently, affected students of such schools on their promotion to next class would be shifted to CBSE main curriculum’. 
 
 The central board’s constant flip-flop in the recent past has not gone down well with schools. A city school principal said, “While it is a popular board, these changes have made a major dent into its reputation. Suppose next year the CBSE revives the international curriculum or starts something similar, do you think parents will want to move their kids there? Leave parents, even I will advise my management to stay away from experimental initiatives of the board because ultimately we have to deal with problems on the ground.” 
 
