MUMBAI: Looking exhausted at the end of a gruelling but successful   campaign, and perhaps eager to celebrate his third IPL triumph as the captain of  ,   was not in a mood to take questions. However, what brought a smile to the stylish batsman's face were the three IPL trophies lined up in front of him. No skipper, not even MS Dhoni, can boast of that much silverware from the glamorous and competitive T20 tournament.

 Every odd year is proving to be lucky for Rohit and MI as he has led the franchise to victory in 2013, 2015 and now 2017. The last one, coming on Sunday night, brought a happy end to a season which was largely marked by a bad hamstring injury which robbed him of a chance to play the Test and ODI series against England and the Test series against Australia. It was a unique season. Unlike previous years, MI started well and went on to clinch the title by surviving nine last-over finishes, including the one in the final which saw them win by just one run against Pune. They managed to defend 129 after Pune, who were 71 for one in the 12th over, looked certain to win the title.
 
 At the hurriedly-arranged presser for the IPL champs on Monday evening here, Rohit was immediately greeted by the `Harbhajan bouncer' (why was the veteran off-spinner dropped for the playoffs), and the 30-year-old chose to `hook' it with disdain.
 
 “It was a tactical change, nothing related to performance and things like that. I don't know why you're asking this again, “he fumed, before talking about the more `pleasant' things like which IPL title he cherished most.
 
 “All three (titles) are special I guess. But I think the last game is the best T20 tie I've been a part of. I can't single out any one edition because all the three editions we won were special and it took us a lot of hard work to win. So, I want to cherish all three. No one has won the IPL thrice yet, so this is a big achievement for me as a player and for the team as well, “said the most successful captain in IPL history.
 
 After the Harbhajan teaser, Rohit had to deal with a yorker too as he was asked whether his patchy form was a concern ahead of the Champions Trophy. Rohit dismissed the question saying he was “very happy“with his performance in what was his worst IPL with the bat -333 runs in 17 games @30.27.
 
 There's a thought that he must open in the IPL, like he does for India in limited over games, but Rohit doesn't subscribe to it. “When you play for India, it's a different format and I don't see why people compare the IPL with international cricket. My requirement here was in the middle-order, and that's what we did. We realised at the start of the tournament that it's better for me to bat down the order to get that balance right, “ he said.
 
 Rohit also does not see any issues with him and his Team India colleagues needing to quickly switch from the T20 to 50-overs mode for the CT -India play their first game against Pakistan on June 4 in Birmingham. “We’ve been doing the same thing for the last 10 years. We play the IPL, and then we play the 50-overs format or the Test format, so I don't think at this point it is difficult for anyone to adjust. You just have to keep reminding yourself that you have to change your mentality, “he explained.
 
 It remains to be seen if teams can retain a few players for IPL-11, or everyone goes back into the auction pool, but it's evident where the Mumbaikar's heart lies. “I don't know about the others but I would love to play for my home team. I have played all my cricket here, I've lived all my life here. I would love to be here. We would be happy to retain the whole squad if possible, “ he said.
 
 
