MUMBAI: South Mumbai’s ‘A’ ward, which consists of Churchgate, Fort,  , Cuffe Parade and  , is unique in the sense that it’s the only one to be governed by four different authorities—the   (BMC),   (MbPT), MMRDA and defence authorities. 

 Residents say this seems to have its own advantages and disadvantages. Independent corporator from Colaba, Makarand Narwekar who is planning to contest again in the upcoming elections said, “The entire Ballard Estate is owned by MbPT while the area from Mantralaya to Navy Nagar is under MMRDA. Then again Navy Nagar area is completely with the defence. Therefore, a challenge the ward faces is bringing all the agencies on a common platform. Especially in case of redevelopment, NOCs are required from multiple agencies. Since no redevelopment is taking place, there’s no parking space in most buildings which are old-style standalone structures. This further leads to traffic congestion.”
 
 Cooperage resident Kunti Oza said when multiple agencies are involved, there is a lack of coordination. “We have seen though a plot of land might be owned by a particular agency since time immemorial, but there is zero involvement of that agency in any development work to be done on that land,” said Oza.
 
 However, vice-chairman of the Cuffe Parade Residents Association (CPRA) B M Chaturvedi said, “We feel every agency has to ensure they can deliver services just like the other.” 
 
 Besides, the ward is where one finds the sharpest economic and social disparities—high-rises in Cuffe Parade and old Art Deco buildings along Marine Drive and dense slum pockets at Machimar Nagar and Geeta Nagar in Colaba and its adjoining areas.
 
 Nariman Point Churchgate Citizens’ Association vice-president Atul Kumar said polarisation is very accute in the ward. “The ward is divided with the slum community on one side and on the other is ALMs with their strong resident groups. The ward also has a significant elderly population,” said Kumar. He added a good corporator can make a difference. “There is a significant amount of funds which the corporator is allocated to spend at his discretion. A good elected representative is able to raise questions in the civic house and liaise with the ward office,” said Kumar. 
 
 ‘A’ ward has been affected by the recent delimitation exercise and only three of the earlier four seats remain, held by Congress corporators Sushma Salunke and Anita Yadav, one Shiv Sena corporator Ganesh Sanap and independent corporator Makrand Narwekar who was fielded by a citizens group in Colaba during the previous civic elections in 2012.
 
 The ward has traditionally been a Congress stronghold but former two-time MP and former Union cabinet minister Milind Deora, and MLA Annie Shekhar, both lost their seats in the 2014 Lok Sabha and Assembly elections respectively. It remains to be seen if the Congress stages a comeback in the civic elections. The Sena with its MP Arvind Sawant and BJP with its MLA Raj Purohit both made inroads in the ward. However Shekhar’s son Vinod Shekhar, who is likely to contest this civic election on a Congress ticket, is confident about the party’s chances. 
 
 “During the 2014 elections there was a BJP wave which no longer remains today. The Congress has always had its own strong network and we are sure to return strong as before,” said Shekhar, whose wife Sushma Salunke is the present Colaba corporator.
 
 
