BHUBANESWAR: The CBI, probing Rs 17,000 crore-Rose Valley ponzi scam, on Monday said it has been facing difficulties in extracting information from arrested   MP and Bengali actor   owing to his illness. 

 Pal was taken to Capital Hospital here for the second consecutive day on Monday after he complained of chest pain again. "We do not understand whether the actor is acting or the pain was for real. Since we took him in our custody for interrogation as per CBI court's permission, we cannot ignore his health," a CBI officer told TOI.
 
 The officer said they have so far failed to elicit any substantial information from him as he kept grumbling about his health. On Sunday, the doctors at the Capital Hospital examined his health and said he was okay. On Monday, Pal underwent health check-ups by cardiology, neurology, ophthalmology and psychiatry experts in the same hospital. "We again conducted some tests on him and found he was suffering from diabetes and other ailments. Though he is not fully normal, there is no harm in CBI interrogating him. We asked the CBI to take him back in custody," said  , a Capital Hospital doctor, who treated Pal. 
 
 CBI is likely to take Pal to   and Hospital, Cuttack, for further health check-up, though his family reportedly pressed for his admission into a private hospital. CBI, quoting his family said he recently underwent a brain surgery. 
 
 The CBI arrested Pal in Kolkata on December 30, 2016 and took him on remand for three days the day after. His daughter Sohini, who acted in a Bengali movie, funded by   met her father at the CBI office here on Monday. 
 
 Several duped investors of Rose Valley gathered outside the CBI office on Monday and demanded the probe agency to find out possible links of some politicians of the state in the scam. "The company could not have thrived for several years in the state without political patronage. We heard a female relative of a retired judge was looking after the company affairs in Odisha in the past," said a duped investor. 
 
