MUMBAI: Former planning commission member Bhalchandra   has termed as “unprecedented” the crisis faced by   over delayed results.

 “There have been delays in announcement of results several times in the past, but this is just unprecedented,” he said at a conference on Wednesday.
 
 Mungekar, who was also the university vice-chancellor from 2000 to 2004, has sought VC Sanjay Deshmukh’s resignation. “He should accept the moral responsibility of holding students to ransom and step down. Even if the university is able to announce the results by July 31, the quality of assessment is questionable,” he said. This, at a time when the 160th anniversary of the university should be celebrated, Mungekar added.
 
 He sought a judicial inquiry into the assessment mess by a committee headed by a retired high court judge. “Deshmukh’s sudden decision to assess papers online was absolutely irrational. Scanning, assessing and moderating around 20 lakh answersheets online in a short span is a difficult task. He even decided to change the company. Since 2013, Mind Logic was the service provider for assessment of engineering papers. 
 
 MeritTrac was appointed as the new vendor in April 2017 when most of the major exams were over,” said Mungekar, adding that there is sufficient scope for suspicion. He said the tendering process followed should be made public.
 
 Mungekar even slammed the university’s decision to appoint examiners from other universities. “Every university follows a different pattern. Barring Mumbai and Pune universities, in others the medium of instruction is Marathi. Who are the assessors, who are the moderators? One cannot carry out target-oriented assessment; it is unjustifiable as you cannot ensure quality,” he said on the July 31 deadline.
 
 Criticising the state government for giving away “uncontrolled” powers to the vice-chancellors of state universities, Mungekar said, “Before bringing in the new Maharashtra Public Universities Act, the government abolished all the earlier academic bodies, including the senate, management council, etc. No pro-vice-chancellor was appointed till date. The vice-chancellor was not accountable to anyone. This excessive confidence has traumatized students.”
 
