NAGPUR:
 

 
 Before you look at the future, you also have to look at the way we are and how we came here. The best part I see in these six IIMs that were announced in 2014 and started in 2015 is that the MHRD has come up with interesting models like mentorship. We have completely done away with the need to reinvent the wheel. We already have a fantastic track record for the IIM brand, so there was no need to start from scratch. In a place like Nagpur, opportunities are plenty. Somewhere down the line, IIM-N has to stand up on its feet. So naturally, we are talking about two issues which is common to every B-school. It is capacity and capability building.
 
 
 Capacity is to get more infrastructure, classrooms, faculty, students, and providing national human resource. That alone is not sufficient. Best way to help a community is to make it self sufficient. To that extent, I am looking at capacity and capability building. Thanks to the government, MHRD, CM   and Union minister Nitin Gadkari for their support. Capability is one of the major areas in academic institution and we need extremely good and competent faculty.
 
 
 
 Nagpur weather probably is hostile. But life is a sequence of trade offs. Definitely faculty are not just an intellectual brain. They are physical people and have families. They may look at quality of work life for them. If places alone were to decide choice of work, probably everything should have been located in Ooty and Kanyakumari. Our job is to make an irresistible offer so that Nagpur becomes their choice.
 
 
 Field immersion model. Students looked at government/non-government, private organizations, sectors like food, agriculture and NGO here. They not only go and understand how these organizations are working, but also understand the linkages with environment, government and business.
 
 
 IIM-N has had much more benefit of coming out of the intellectual thinking of IIM-A. What possibly couldn’t have been done at Ahmedabad is done here. All the students loved the projects.
 
 
 We are very particular about our students as future leaders. There is a person and a professional in them. Lots of organizations are so impressed with them. Divisional commissioner   guided projects for our students to transform Nagpur as a logistics hub. Some of the work done by students has been taken forward for consideration and possible implementation. Students are learning and that’s a win-win situation.
 
