The 70th Cannes Film Festival kicked off on May 17 in the French Riviera with a steady stream of showbiz A listers from around the world. Here's a dekko at the ones who turned heads as much for their star power as their choice of eye-catching outfits so far:

 
 
 Master of Ceremonies Monica Bellucci was quite the tease in a custom-made Dior that notably featured sheer details and was paired with a wavy side-do along with eye-popping diamonds.
 
 Winnie Harlow
 
 The 22-year-old Canadian model notably ditched her edgy aesthetics for a more traditional look in a fullskirted   and a wavy bun teamed with teardrop earrings. The majestic blue of the volu minous gown was strik ingly offset by her slen der frame.
 
  Bachchan
 
 In a departure from her previous looks that gravitated more towards classics, Cannes veteran Ash's first look this year featured a multi-coloured Yanina Couture gown from the label's Spring 2017 collection. Also, unlike event-appropriate eveningwear, the appliqué flowers blooming on the two-tiered gown were in perfect sync with the picturesque surroundings.
 
 
 
 After a series of missteps, Xander cage's screen love turned to a daring derriere-baring Marchesa number, a touch of dark lip colour, ombre hair and this fierce, almost-over-theshoulder stance, to stand out. The look, thanks to a generous dose of sheer detailing, inspired many headturns, and was paired with   heels and De Grisogono jewels.
 
 Susan Sarandon
 
 The 70-year-old   brought her A-game to the red carpet in the form of a velvet Alberta Feretti number that facilitated a show of ample décolletage with a cinched-in waist. The sunglasses almost seem like an afterthought, as if Susan wanted to subliminally plant the `My eyes are up here' message in onlookers.
 
 
 
 This Academy Awardwinning actress and Cannes sweetheart pulled out all stops for the opening ceremony in a striking Givenchy number that oddly complemented the red of her hair. And while the feather-heavy hem was little to write home about -it's a bit of a red car pet staple, the deli cate neckline came as a breath of fresh air.
 
 Cara Delevingne
 
 It's as if the modelactress deliberately picked a relatively lacklustre Moschino gown, with a low-high hem, to let her tattoos and a newly-acquired blonde buzz cut to grab the spotlight.Dark lips and chunky jewellery made her look like a biker chick at a charity ball.
 
  
  
 
