MUMBAI: Expressing “extreme displeasure” at the way the  , Ashwini Joshi, was conducting herself in matters of leases, the Bombay high court on Wednesday directed the chief minister to “personally look into” the functioning of the office of the collector. 

 A bench of Justice Vidyasagar Kanade and Justice P R Bora passed the direction even as it stayed until further orders   proceedings initiated by Joshi against owners of the iconic Eros cinema building opposite Churchgate station. S C Cambata Trust had moved the high court challenging the February 14 showcause notice issued for cancellation of a 1939 lease which was to continue till 2025. The notice said the trust had violated lease conditions by erecting mobile towers on the terrace and creating tenancies. It directed the owner to appear for a hearing before the collector.
 
 On January 19, the   had ordered de-sealing of the building forthwith after the collector, on order of the labour commissioner, had sealed the entire building and attached it for recovering, by way of land revenue, Rs 4.45 crore to be paid to employees of Cambata Aviation. 
 
 The trust and Eros cinema had then moved the court. The trust said Cambata Aviation was a separate entity.
 
 Senior advocate Milind Sathe, appearing for the trust, argued that the collector did not have jurisdiction to decide on cancellation of leases and that under the Bombay Government Premises (Eviction ) Act, proceedings should be initiated only by the competent authority under it. Sathe said the owners apprehend that the collector has pre-determined the issue and is going to pass an adverse order. Sathe said after the court passed the de-sealing order, the attachment continued. “Even now harassment is on and cinema-goers’ tickets were checked to see if entertainment duty is collected,” he added.
 
 Told that the hearing would be at 12.30pm, the judge directed a call to be made to Joshi not to proceed with the hearing. The government’s advocate argued that as the government is owner of the land, the collector has jurisdiction to hear the matter and the petitioners are prejudiced against her. “Just because you are the owner doesn’t mean you can conduct the (eviction) proceedings. Is this the way the government acts in a high-handed manner? Is she acting at the instance of the government or on her own? She is not bound by statutory provisions of law. You throw caution to the wind. It is obviously mala fide,” Justice Kanade.
 
 In the order, the bench said prime facie it is satisfied that the collector of Mumbai has no jurisdiction to hear matters of breach of conditions of lease. “The manner in which the collector of Mumbai is proceeding in the matter leaves no manner of doubt in our mind that the collector is bent upon passing an order without giving an opportunity of hearing to the petitioner,” it added.
 
 Sathe informed that the state government has prepared a policy in respect of 1,500 leases all over Mumbai and “the collector is acting in a high-handed manner against lessees”. Staying the show ause notice, the judges directed the chief minister to “personally look into the matter and find out what is happening in the office of the collector.” The court also said, “We’d like to know if it is happening at the behest of the state government.” Giving four weeks to the state to file its reply, it also sought “to know from the principal secretary and other authorities on whether action (had been) initiated at their behest or at the behest of the cabinet.”
 
