LUCKNOW: After being pulled up by Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court, health authorities have roped in Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences to conduct the first scientific entomological survey. But delay in sanction of funds required to start the work raises doubts over its fate.

 Chief medical officer G S Bajpai said, “So far, urban malaria units were conducting mosquito surveys in which the insects were just segregated, but the one being conducted by SGPGIMS will be a full-fledged survey.” An entomological survey is a globally acknowledged standard for mosquito surveillance to form preventive strategies. 
 
 Head of Microbiology department, SGPGIMS, Dr T N Dhole who would be conducting the survey, however, revealed that he had yet to receive funds to begin the survey. “An estimate of Rs 2.5 crore for the work is awaiting state government sanction,” he told TOI. 
 
 But what is a good time to conduct the entomological survey? A senior official in health ministry cited ‘Compendium on Entomological Surveillance and   in India’ (a publication of National Vector Borne Diseases Control Programme) in reply to this question. “It depends on the state where the survey is to be carried out and in UP, it should begin two months before onset of monsoon and should be carried out in the rainy season too,” he said. Used successfully by important cities of the world, entomological survey involves trapping and segregation of   from different localities. 
 
 The process follows molecular study of the segregated mosquitoes to ascertain if they carry the disease causing virus or not. The findings help in mapping of vulnerable localities and implementing a prevention plan. 
 
 Talking about the survey in Lucknow, Dhole said, “We would be using mosquito trappers to catch the vector which will be bought to the lab for assessment.” 
 
 Sources in state vector-borne diseases control cell stated that so far, only mosquito surveys were termed entomological survey. “Mosquito surveys are listed in the rulebook but entomological survey through trappers are a higher and more reliable procedure,” said an officer, preferring anonymity.
 
 Dhole dittoed sources and said, “Mosquito surveys simply gave an estimate of their density in a city but entomological survey will help in telling if the mosquito is carrying the disease causing virus or not,” he said. 
 
 Health education officials pointed out that mosquito density in developing cities like Lucknow is normally high. The list of reasons include unplanned construction, poor condition of drains and sewers, environmental change, stagnation of water in the Gomti due to the construction of a bridge among other things. 
 
 The delay also shows the lackadaisical attitude of government machinery and its seriousness to control mosquito menace. Lack of manpower in the malaria control unit is a clear cut example to explains this. Against at least 500 workers required, the malaria unit has just around 150. 
 
