NASHIK: The state-run Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd ( ) on Wednesday stressed on the need for industries to focus on developing technology to indigenously manufacture defence components currently being imported by India 

 The appeal from HAL officials came during a national conference on 'Self reliance through import substitution: Su-30  ' held in the city on Wednesday. The conference was attended by the top HAL officials and industrialists involved in the manufacture of defence components. 
 
 A HAL official said that the company has taken initiatives for the indigenisation of maximum with help of private industries as part of 'Make in India' programme by the Centre. It also assured industries of providing every technical help for indigenisation of aircraft components and also overall repair. 
 
 Rajiv Kumar, chief executive officer, accessories complex of HAL (Lucknow), said that around 2.5% of the country's GDP is allotted for defence. 
 
 "The government spends around Rs 80,000 crore on buying defence products each year. Around 60% of the total products in defence are imported by the country. So, there is a need to develop technology for the substitution of import of defence products and components. Private industries may play a pivotal role in this connection," Kumar said.
 
 Stating that indigenisation of defence products needs high technology and quality human resources, Kumar said that India is largest producer of engineers and scientists, but 70% of the total engineers are not directly employable. "The remaining 30% go abroad to seek good opportunities. As per the recent report, 30% of the total engineers in   were from India. We are not able to channel our resources properly. The cost will be reduced a lot if we manufacture products or components locally," he added.
 
 The conference aimed to formulate a road map for self-reliance and enable effective after-sale support of Russian test equipment through indigenisation pertaining to Su-30 MKI aircraft operated in India. 
 
 It also aimed to present guidelines and policies to Indian private industries for import substation of Russian equipment where transfer of technology is not provided by the Russian Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs). This would also facilitate effective after sales support of Su-30MKI fleet on long term basis. 
 
 Currently, the Ozar division of the HAL located around 24km from  , is engaged in the manufacture of Su-30 MKI Aircraft.
 
