CHENNAI: When riding the   below   sometime in 2018, it may be nigh impossible to make out what lies above. But when the carriage swerves left or right, depending on the direction of the train, and slows down, passengers would know that they are travelling below the iconic Anna or  .

 Unlike the rest of the underground stretch where tunnels run right under the arterial road, metro rail’s boring machines will not cut across the soil under Anna Flyover to build tunnels as it may damage the dual-arm flyover, the city’s first such structure built in 1973.
 
 The two tunnels being constructed under Anna Salai from the side of   will turn left as they near the flyover from Thousand Lights.
 
 It will then run under the service road close to the US consulate and along the curves of the flyover (see map). As the tunnels reach the other end of the flyover towards DMS, they will again run right under Mount Road. It will be the first time metro rail will drill tunnels near a flyover. It is also the last stretch of about 1.2km in phase-1 of the project left to be built. The line is expected to be ready by mid-2018.
 
 At present, two machines are boring through the soil near Church Park School. The machines may begin work along the flyover in two weeks. While boring curved tunnels is not difficult, digging through a mixed soil substrate with loose soil on top and rocks in the bottom is a task. The machines are moving at 8m per day as applying more pressure on the soil while tunnelling may damage heritage buildings on the road above.
 
 “We will not go under the flyover but by the side of it. We have mapped the depth of the pile foundation of the flyover and have designed the metro rail alignment in such a way that it doesn’t cross the flyover foundation,” said a metro rail official.
 
 Though the top of the tunnel starts at 16m, which is where the pile foundation of the flyover ends, engineers have planned and designed the alignment in such a way that there is ample space during and after tunnelling.
 
 “The diameter of the tunnel is about 6m, so even if we have 10m to 11m, we can build the tunnels.
 
 The tunnels will not be built in between the pile foundation of the flyover. We will not touch it,” an official said.
 
 Anna Flyover stands on its foundation that is built on the rocky soil at a depth of 14m to 16m. Metro rail tunnels go further down the rocky substrate at 22m.
 
 The alignment of the metro rail line was finalised in 2009-10 when the field study was done. Initially, officials wanted to take the tunnels to the right side of the flyover as it progresses from Thousand Lights under Nungambakkam High Road. “The idea was to have the tunnels under Kamarajar Arangam and have the DMS station in the adjoining Congress ground. But we changed the plan later as there were disagreements,” an official said.
 
