AHMEDABAD: Five contractual labourers died of asphyxiation after inhaling a poisonous gas while cleaning a chemical   at a factory in Vatva GIDC on Monday afternoon. Condition of three others, who were rushed to LG Hospital in Kankaria area of the city, is extremely critical.

 According to initial reports, a group of labourers had entered the effluent tank at Advance Dyestuff Industries to clean it. When some of them became unconscious due to the poisonous gas, others also went inside to save them. However, they too became unconscious. They were rushed to the hospital.
 
 While the five deceased were identified as Shailendra Divakar (25), Puran Divakar (38), Bharat Divakar (25), Man Singh (43) and Bunty Singh Divakar (28), those who have been battling for their lives at the hospital are Sarvesh Divakar (30), Golu Singh (26) and Jitu Kumar Roy.
 
 R C Shah, medical superintendent of the hospital, said, “Four persons were brought dead to the hospital while condition of Sarvesh and Man Singh was extremely critical and they were kept on life support. Later, Man Singh died during treatment. Golu Singh and Roy are being given oxygen support.”
 
 D C Chaudhary, director of industrial safety and health, Ahmedabad, said that the effluent treatment plant of the factory was kept closed for the past two months and when the labourers entered inside, they inhaled some toxic gas.
 
 “The gas seems to be hydrogen sulfide or some biogas formed due to fermentation of chemical materials lying in the tank. The exact reason will be known only after FSL investigation,” said Chaudhary.
 
 On asked when the last inspection of the factory was conducted, Chaudhary said, “I cannot say when it was conducted last time. But cleaning of the tank must not be a regular procedure in that factory. Investigation is on and action will be taken against the factory for violating the industrial safety norms.”
 
 Additional commissioner of police, sector-2, D B Vaghela said that the police have registered an offence under section 304 for culpable homicide against the owners of the factory, Kiran Patel and Bijit Saha, supervisor, and two contractors for not providing proper apparatus to the workers to clean the tank.
 
 According to sources, the bodies of the labourers were lying at the hospital for around eight hours as the police could not complete the legal formalities.
 
 Experts helping cops
 
 Ahmedabad: The company had given a contract for cleaning the treatment plant tank to a private contractor. “The contractor had roped in a sub-contractor for providing workers. On Monday, they went to the company premises for cleaning the tank. “As soon as they entered the tank through a one-and-a-half feet manhole, they started gasping for breath and shouted for help. Hearing their cries, others also entered the tank but they too collapsed,” said deputy commissioner of police, zone-6, Rajan Susara. He said that the main contractor has gone to MP and the sub-contractor does not even know addresses of his workers. Police have roped in   and industrial safety department officials and forensics experts to assist in the investigation.
 
 
