MUMBAI: Observing the  ," the   said they will have to ensure that no   or is harmed during   in October. 

 "We have to strike a fine balance between what the faith allows and we have to protect children," said a bench of Justice Rajendra Savant and Justice Sadhana Jadhav as they disposed of a suo motu PIL "to save children" from injuries by sharp weapons, blades, knives and swords in the name of matam (mourning). 
 
 The HC in 2014 had appealed to religious leaders to consider not using minors for matam. On July 3, Pravin Padval, additional commissioner of police (south region), was directed to convene a meeting with Shia leaders and organisers.
 
  Prosecutor Prajakta Shinde submitted Padval's report which said on July 21, 2017, members of the All India Idare-Tahafuze-Hussainiat assured the processions will be peaceful. They agreed minors will not be allowed to carry weapons or sharp objects and won't be forced to injure themselves. Also, nobody else shall injure children participating in the procession. The processions will be video-graphed. 
 
  The bench said permissions to organisers should incorporate an undertaking to adhere to the conditions. Two advocates, representing organisers, said police can't interfere as "it is a matter of faith" and "it is a religious practice". "We respect every religion and its practices. They shall be granted permission subject to conditions," said Justice Jadhav. The judges also pointed out that religious leaders have agreed to safety of minors. It was then that Justice Savant made the observation about striking a fine balance adding, "Police cannot wash their hands off. They will not interfere in a microscopic way but in general supervise." 
 
 In their order, the judges said, "We hope and trust that the commitment given by leaders of the Shia sect would be adhered to in the ensuing Muharram and also in Muharram in future." They directed the additional CP "to personally supervise the Muharram procession and see to it that the commitment given by the leaders is put into practice." They also clarified their directions will not be construed as preventing children from participating in the processions.
 
 
