PUNE: The Bombay high court has granted a conditional   to former ‘Maharashtra Kesari’ wrestling champion Dattatray Gaikwad in the alleged   of a farmer over an old land dispute at Wadki in Loni Kalbhor on December 19, last year.

 The court also granted anticipatory bail to two other accused, Pandit Parshuram Modak and Vivek Pandit Modak, in the case.
 
 Datta Gaikwad was among the eight suspects arrested by the Loni Kalbhor police after complainant Ajinkya Gaikwad lodged an FIR alleging that they had assaulted and killed his father, Shivaji Gaikwad. Ajinkya had filed an intervention plea opposing the three applications.
 
 The prosecution opted against opposing these applications in view of a police report under Section 169 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), exonerating the applicants on the grounds that there was not sufficient evidence and that, the real culprits were the other accused, who are in jail. A first class judicial magistrate has rejected the police report. The prosecution submitted in the high court that the state was moving an appeal in the sessions court against the magistrate’s  .
 
 Apart from citing the police report, the applicants argued that they were falsely implicated as Datta Gaikwad was a witness in an attempt to murder case against the victim and his son. They argued that Datta Gaikwad and Vivek were not even present at the scene of crime.
 
 Ajinkya’s lawyer argued that the police report notwithstanding, the role of the three applicants was different and the investigating officer had connived with the applicants and other accused to fabricate the case papers. 
 
 In her order on February 7, Justice Mrudula Bhatkar of the high court observed, “Prima facie, except the statement of the complainant and his mother, there are no other statements supporting the case of the complainant. It is a brutal murder. However, from the police report, it prima facie transpires that the murder is committed by accused numbers 9 to 14 (other accused) and the whole machination was at the instance of Sunil alias Pappu Gaikwad.”
 
 The bench observed, “Statements of other witnesses prima facie show that the body was lying when they saw it.” Considering all these factors, the bail and the pre-arrest bail pleas are allowed, the court said.
 
 
