HYDERABAD: Dozens of   (OU) students burnt effigies of chief minister   on Sunday blaming the government for not fulfilling its promise of providing jobs. 

 Multiple rallies were held at the sprawling campus by members of the   which announced plans to gherao the chief minister’s camp office on Monday. The JAC also planned to hold padyatras across the state to seek support from people on the issue.
 
 Inside campus, protesters shouted slogans against the government and said it has failed to fulfil its election promise of creating 1.5 lakh jobs for unemployed youth and hundreds of students who participated in the statehood movement. Before storming to power, the TRS had promised a slew of measures for students and claimed it would give them jobs in the government sector, but lakhs of its foot soldiers have been left in the lurch with many continuing to be unemployed. 
 
 “The TRS government used us during the separation movement and has now cast a blind eye to our pleas and suffering,” said  , a student leader who was active during the Telangana movement. On Sunday, students demanded that the government recognise the role of those who struggled for a separate state and issue a notification for jobs. 
 
 Students also protested the Telangana government’s move to regularise contract employees. “There are over 1.5 lakh posts vacant in various government departments. It is unfair to regularise the contract lecturers who didn't play any major role in the Telangana movement,” said Manavatha Roy, president of OU Joint Action Committee. As per official data, there are nearly 4,000 junior lecturers working on contract basis in the university.
 
 Students of OU have been demanding the government release   (PSC) notification for various posts, including junior lecturers and degree lectures at college level for three years now. While the TRS government has not released the notification, students complained that the Andhra Pradesh government had already done so. “The KCR government has cheated the students’ community by not fulfilling its promise of giving jobs to the unemployed. The government issued notifications for posts which were not relevant for students,” said E Vinod, a student activist. 
 
