JALANDHAR: In the run up to the  , 291 smugglers, gangsters and other criminals have been history-sheeted in the last one month in police stations of six districts of the Jalandhar zone.   includes Jalandhar (rural), Kapurthala, Hoshiarpur, Nawanshahr, Khanna and Ludhiana (rural) districts.

 The identification and addition of their names to the bad characters list happened after the Jalandhar zone inspector general of police (IG) made it mandatory for the station house officers (SHOs) to list the information of cases against people who happen to be residents of the areas under their jurisdiction.
 
 According to police sources, even as maintaining Register No. 12 – in which a police station is supposed to maintain the complete record about the cases registered against a resident of the area – is an old practice but there were several lapses in the practice which led to incomplete personal records of the habitual criminals.
 
 “Just enforcing basic   of the SHO concerned for the purpose has started yielding results, and opening new historysheets again would ensure better monitoring of criminals and also act as a deterrent against them,” said a police official. A historysheet is a file on an individual who has been identified as a repeat criminal by local police. With this the criminal’s names gets added to the bad characters’ list and it becomes imperative for police to maintain a constant watch on the person.
 
 A senior police officer revealed that three SHOs of different police stations had already faced heat for not following this basic policing practice. One SHO in Kapurthala district was placed under suspension for not putting the records in his own handwriting, another was shifted in Hoshiarpur and third one in Ludhiana (rural) faced a departmental inquiry for different lapses in complying with the order.
 
 Jalanndhar zone IG L K Yadav, who issued the order in the last week of November, said as the records were getting completed, a clear picture of all cases against criminals, gangsters and smugglers emerged and police could open historysheets against 291 criminals, gangsters and smugglers by end of December. “There can be more additions in the coming days,” he added.
 
 He held that as the   registered at different police stations in the state against a particular criminal were entered into the Register No. 12 – being maintained in the police station of the area to which the person belonged – police officials had enough material to put them under regular scanner. “As SHO has been made responsible for these entries in his own handwriting none can pass the buck,” he argued.
 
 The IG order also underlined that concerned deputy superintendents of police (DSPs) would have to furnish a certificate that all the relevant entries had been made. The certificate has to be countersigned by the superintendent of police (investigation) of the district concerned.
 
 “Now these SPs and DSPs are monitoring the maintenance of the complete records,” said a police official.
 
