New Delhi: The Badarpur power plant is set to reopen on Wednesday after four months. It was   following a severe smog episode on November 5 and 6 last year. However,   campaigners said that the plant might as well remain shut as it was “inefficient” and causing “pollution”. 

 Greenpeace India, in a note, also highlighted that power from the thermal power station was costlier than the rate available from the central grid. Recent annual generation target released by the Central Electricity Authority (CEA) said that 2,000 million units (MU) should be generated from the Badarpur power plant. However, the average production is only around 1,703.15 MU between April and December 2016.
 
 Researchers said this highlighted that the total power load factor ( PLF — measure of capacity utilisation) was only 36.60% if all five units (705 MW) of the Badarpur power plant were running and 54% if only two units of 420 MW were running. “CEA recommends that a power station should run at a PLF of 85% for optimal utilisation of its capacity…a recent study by IIT-Kanpur (source apportionment) articulated the need to reduce emissions from thermal power plants as far as 300km from Delhi,” the note said.
 
 They also highlighted that there was enough allocation for Delhi from central sector power stations. For example, the total allocation from the central sector to Delhi is around 4,080 MW with Delhi’s own generation of 2,231 MW. This makes the total capacity around 6,297 MW. 
 
 “The assessment for maximum demand this summer is 6,600 MW, which can be met from the available generation and increasing renewable energy generation capacity in the capital,” said  , campaigner, Greenpeace India. The note said that the rate of sale of power from   was Rs 5.37 per unit higher than the prices quoted for new installation of solar and wind-based electricity at Rs 3 per unit. 
 
 “Badarpur plant is just one example of the larger problem the country is facing with respect to increase of cost, underutilisation, high pollution from coal-based power plants. India has 18, 8477 MW of power plants. To regulate emissions, government came out with rules for old and new thermal power plants to reduce the impact on public health. But, there is no progress on their,” the note added.
 
 
