KOLKATA: For 30-year-old Aratrika Biswas, pandalhopping is only the means to an end -her own Puja pdf album. Not to be deterred by a possible wet Puja this year, she has started her rounds as early as Chaturthi.A prediction of rain on all four Puja days, and fear of getting caught in the visitors' rush, made lakhs go pandalhopping on Sunday , giving   an Ashtami-like feel. The city witnessed major traffic jams from early afternoon till late in the night.

 “We have been pandalhopping from Saturday itself.We made most of a dry weekend and have finished with almost all major pandals in south Kolkata. After office on Monday, I will take my family to see some more pandals.Hence, even if it rains during the main Puja days, I will not miss much,“ said Biswas.
 
 Even three years back, Chaturthi used to be the day when the Lalbazar bosses would go into a huddle to make last-minute Puja deployment plans. For the last two years, the schedule has changed drastically since thousands of revellers start pandal-hopping way before the actual start of the Puja. According to Kolkata Police, this year's wet forecast and an extended weekend at the start of the Puja resulted in an all-timehigh Chaturthi crowd.
 
 On Sunday , almost the entire traffic police department was out on the roads from late afternoon, managing growing snarls as last-minute shoppers and a host of revellers hit the streets with two days still to go for Shashthi. Rashbehari Avenue, Rashbehari Avenue connector, VIP Road, Central Avenue, CIT Road,   and AJC Bose Road were among the arteries where traffic movement increasingly became slow . As the afternoon turned into evening and more people started hitting the pandal trail, traffic almost came to standstill. As vehicular load increased, the police used their Facebook page to send out snarl warnings and road-closure information. They also used mobile electronic display boards to inform commuters of bottlenecks ahead.
 
 Parts of VIP Road, Manicktala, Colootola Road, Bidhan Sarani and Ahiritola in the north and Deshapriya Park, Gariahat, Haridevpur and Behala in the south witnessed unusually large crowds and snarls that got worse as vehicles competed for parking space.
 
  from Behala said he was out on Sunday because he would not be able to take his family pandal-hopping on Puja days since he was a member of the organizing committee in his neighbourhood. “Since all big pujas get inaugurated early ,I had booked a car and made a marathon round of pandals from south to north from Sunday morning till late in the night. Now, my family cannot complain any more,“ he said.
 
 According to weathermen, the city is set to receive light to scattered rainfall on Monday and Tuesday . Between Wednesday (Shaptami) and Saturday (Dashami), there will be fairly “widespread moderate rainfall“.
 
 “A cyclonic circulation in the north of Bay of Bengal, followed by subsequent low pressure, may cause relatively long hours of rain during the Puja days. However, we will make a fresh assessment on Monday and will be able to give a clearer prediction,“ said G K Das, the director (weather) of Regional Meteorological Centre, Kolkata.
 
