When it comes to cue sports, Bengaluru-boy   is, undeniably, the one with the Midas Touch. His exploits in the game — both   and   — just keep growing by the day, his latest being a gold medal effort at the   (Snooker), at which he partnered with   and   to defeat the Pakistani team. The win, though, did not make as many headlines, prompting the champ to write a tweet for which he promptly got trolled. In a quick chat with Bangalore Times before heading to Egypt for his next tournament, Pankaj gets talking about his plans for the game, how living out of a suitcase for most part of the year has left him with not much time to find a significant other in his life, and more. Excerpts...
 
  
 
  This is India’s first win in the category since 2014 and my first in a team event. I have, in the past, partnered with other players at many other tournaments, but we were somehow never fortunate enough to win them. So, this gold-medal win is special in that sense.
  That apart, it was also exciting to team up with two young players; well, not that I am old (Pankaj is just 32). But they looked up to me and my experience in the game and I told them to go out there and play their game freely. It was an amazing experience when we won 3-0 against Pakistan.
  
  
 
  Immediately after the win, I had posted a tongue-in-cheek tweet, “We r not demigods, we r not cricketers. We r the Asian Team Snooker Champions 2017. What a feeling,” accompanied by a picture of the three of us with the trophy, for which I got trolled. There were supporters too, but it was interesting to see two sides play out. Sometimes, when you make such a comment, you just want people to lighten up and not take things so seriously and dissect it and interpret it in their own funny way. People could say that I was trying to take a dig at cricketers or that I was trying to drive the point that we won titles and that they have not or that I was just making a matter-of-fact comment that caught people’s attention; that’s about it.
  I was not trying to bring in any comparison. The moment I say, ‘Oh we did this, and they didn’t do that’, then, obviously, that is kind of below the belt and I am not that kind of a person. People know me and that I am classier than that, but it was interesting to see the reactions to that. I realize that trolling has become a part of social media that one cannot ignore when you are in the public eye. But then, in a very strange way, it does help in bringing a subject into the spotlight. There are more civilized ways of doing that, but social media does not allow that. You have to be very straightforward in saying things and you need to have an opinion, and even if you are convinced about what you are saying, people are going to go against you.
  
  
 
  There is the World 6 Red Snooker Championship in Egypt from August 1, so I am off in a week’s time. My sport has taken me to almost 40 countries in these years, some of them multiple times, but I haven’t really been able to explore them as much as I would have wanted. The irony is that to be able to do that you have to lose early on in the tournament and that is not something that you would want to.
  There are times, though, when I am on tour in a new place and that feeling of wanting to return to the comfort of home sets in. Then, all I want to do is sit in front of my TV, eat home-cooked food and laze around. The whole process of competing, including the preparation, living out a suitcase, eating food you are not used to, being in climates that are alien to you for most part of the year — all of that is good for a while, but then you get into that zone in which you just want to finish the tournament and come back home. Which is what I did after Krygyzstan.
  
  
 
  Tennis is my favourite sport on TV. I am a huge Roger Federer fan and watching him win Wimbledon this year, I was on cloud nine. Federer has brought back the serve and volley game in his own inimitable style, which is such a joy to watch. My love for the game, though, is restricted to watching it. I do play a little bit, but I completely suck at it. Also, considering how important the wrist is in playing tennis and cue sports, I cannot afford to get injured. So, I just play a very basic forehand and backhand, without putting too much strain on my wrist, and get the ball on the other side of the court.
  
  
 
  I have won so many trophies and titles in my career, but I haven’t been able to win a girl. So, the single status remains and will for a while. I haven’t really been involved much in that direction in finding the right person, because my schedule has taken me more towards my career.
  
  
  
