CHANDIGARH:  ,  , on Friday announced the launch of   (HSP) in Chandigarh, saying it was the "Only political outfit to cater to the needs of   of the state."

 Arya, who claimed to have been ousted by the saffron party, is a close associate of Kurukshetra MP and BJP leader Raj Kumar Saini. He has been working with Saini on the non-Jat front.
 
 "We have left the post of president for Saini with a hope that either he will be removed or would step down. Till then I will officiate as the working president of the party," said Arya.
 
 "There is a clear division between 35 communities and one community. We were forced to launch the party as Jats are ruling both the Congress and INLD in all forms. There had to be a platform for the non-Jats. We will neither ask for votes or nor field candidate," added Arya.
 Referring to the Haryana government, Arya termed Khattar as the chief minister who has failed to perform his skills of a good ruler. He also flayed the government for dancing to the tunes of Jat agitators.
 
 He further claimed strong anti-Jat sentiment prevailing among the non-Jat MLAs of BJP and other parties in Haryana. "They will take up the issue by the Jat agitators across Haryana. The BJP MPs will take up the issue of Jat stir not only in Haryana assembly but also in the parliament," he added.
 "Why should the government give compensation to those who violated law and order and are responsible for the death and injuries of innocent? Government should refrain from holding interaction with those who have resorted to arm twisting now," he said.
 
 Arya avoided queries related to Kurukshetra MP Saini but projected him to be a strong non-Jat leader who could be the next chief minister of Haryana.
 Meanwhile, Congress leader Ran Singh Mann termed the new political outfit as yet another initiative by the BJP-led saffron front to create division in the society. "BJP has already done this last year. This is another fresh initiative by them. Arya is BJP's man. All this is of no avail as entire Haryana knows about the BJP leaders' mindset," said Mann.
 
