BENGALURU: A Bengaluru-based couple was detained at   on Thursday, hours before they were to get engaged in their home state of Kerala. 

 Fearing that they might miss a Kochi-bound   on Wednesday evening, the couple allegedly plotted and organized a hoax bomb call to the airport, resulting in the aircraft’s departure getting delayed by nearly seven hours.
 
 Neha Gopinathan and Arjun alias Anjan, both residents of BTM Layout, were, however, released by   police after they pleaded that they be allowed to go to complete their engagement. 
 
 They also gave an undertaking that they would return in a couple of days. Neha and Arjun, who work as language teachers at a private tutorial centre, also revealed to the police the man who had made the hoax bomb call.
 
 The couple was to take the   I5 1129 flight to Kochi at 8.45pm on Wednesday from KIA, and get engaged at Alappuzha the next day.
 
 “But they were stuck in traffic near Jayanagar around 8pm and knowing they could not make it in time to catch the flight, they planned the hoax call plot. They called a friend in Kochi, asking him to call the terminal manager, saying a bomb had been planted on the Kochi flight,” a senior officer said. The friend, whose name police did not reveal, is absconding.
 
 An anonymous call was made to the terminal manager around 8.40pm, saying that a bomb had been planted on the Kochi flight. The airport authorities sounded an alert. Police swung into action and rushed a bomb detection squad. The aircraft was searched for explosives before it was declared safe around 1.30am. The flight, with 160 passengers, finally took off around 3am.
 
 HOW WERE THEY CAUGHT
 
 Even as the aircraft was being searched for the bomb, police had tracked down the threat call to Kochi. According to a police source, they also found that the call came from an area where a passenger who was to take the flight was residing. This passenger had also made a call to the airport minutes before the scheduled takeoff time, requesting that the flight be delayed as they were stuck in traffic. 
 
 It was only a matter of time before police zeroed in on Neha and Arjun, one of whom had made the call to the airport requesting for the departure to be delayed.
 
 Meanwhile, police in Alappuzha said the hoax bomb call was made from a public telephone booth in Thazhakkara, Mavelikkara, in Alappuzha district, Kerala, around 8.30pm. "The person manning the booth said a youngster made the call. We initiated a probe around 11.30pm, and we suspect that a relative of the Bengaluru youth made the call," Mavelikkara circle inspector P Sreekumar said.
 
