PUNE: Like his batting,   believes in plain talking. On Sunday, he minced no words as he came down on his team's batsmen, the foreigners in general and skipper   in particular, as   suffered a nine-wicket defeat against Rising Pune Supergiant in Pune.

 He said his batsmen 'disappointed' him and none of them took responsibility once the team started losing wickets.
 
 "I'm very disappointed. I can say that none of the foreign players took responsibility. At least one of the top-four batsmen should have batted for 12/15 overs, but none of the batsmen took the responsibility. I think they were complaining that the wicket was a bit slow but when you play international cricket so much, you should get used to playing on difficult or good wickets," Sehwag, Kings' team director said.
 
 "There are very rare occasions when you get a good wicket to bat on, but whatever wicket you get, you have to play at least 20 overs for your side. But (Glenn) Maxwell,  , (Martin) Guptill and (Eoin) Morgan (were all disappointing). The way we fought back against KKR and Mumbai, we had a good chance to play against Pune. But we didn't do well (here)," Sehwag lamented.
 
 He was particularity disappointed with skipper Maxwell. "We always knew that when Maxwell fires, then he can win the match on his own. But he didn't fire in most games. That is a big disappointment, especially since he's experienced, having played for Australia's Test and ODI teams. He didn't take the responsibility as a captain and didn't perform for Kings XI Punjab" Though he defended Guptill, Sehwag said other players had no business getting out without giving a fight. "I think his (Guptill) role was to catch the powerplay and (Wriddhiman) Saha's was to just bat around with him. So, I don't mind him getting out on the first or second ball as long as he knows what he's doing. There's no point blaming him; I should rather blame the other batsmen. Players who got out had been informing the next batsman that it's a slow wicket and even then if you throw away wickets it means that you're not up for the game," Sehwag said.
 
 He didn't spare the Indian batsmen too and said none of them showed consistency like Hashim Amla did. "We missed Hashim Amla for sure. The kind of consistency he showed, none of the other players could do that, even the Indians couldn't take responsibility. Saha played one (good) innings, Manan Vohra played one innings but apart from that none of the others played responsibly. When you lose a batsman of that caliber, it's necessary for someone to step in and bat with responsibility," added Sehwag.
 
