JAIPUR: National Law Universities (NLU) are the obvious choice for students eyeing a degree in Law. For those who don’t make it to NLUs, the country has several other premier institutes which offer integrated five-year law programmes. Rajasthan University’s (RU) five-year integrated law program is among the most sought after in state along with LLB by Delhi University (DU) also offers similar facilities with those of any NLU.

 The common law admission test ( ) result is expected to be declared on May 18. This year, over 50, 000 candidates appeared in the examination against a total of 2,342 seats. It means, 5% students will get admission in NLUs while the rest will head to other colleges. 
 
 Other than CLAT, which is required for 18 prominent law universities, students can eye for All India Law Entrance Test (AILET) conducted by National Law University, Delhi which is among the most prestigious law colleges in India. DU-LLB is conducted by Delhi University for three-year LLB programmes. Law centres which offer law courses under DU are Campus Law Centre, Law centre I, Law centre II.
 
 SET examination is written for Symbiosis College, Pune. Law School Admission Test (LSAT) is accepted by more than 70 law colleges across India. Common Entrance Test (CET) is also a written one for admission in Indraprastha University, Delhi. Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) also conducts written test.   is conducted by Banaras Hindu University (BHU) which offers five-year integrated course as well as three-year LLB.
 
 University of Petroleum and Energy Studies (UPES), Dehradun also conducts written test — UL-SAT. MHCET is another written test for Mumbai law colleges and   for Pune law colleges. Colleges’ preferred other central or state are Nirma University, Ahmedabad, Amity Univeristy, Delhi, Law School, Delhi.
 
 “Considering the scope of law in India, it is growing rapidly since 1990’s with the introduction of legal cells in corporate world. So, the study of corporate law has been inculcated in academic discipline of law. Like, if you have finance team and sales team in a company, similarly, legal cells are hired for all legal dealings,” said Navneet S Rajpurohit, Director of LawPrep tutorial, Jaipur.
 
 “After completing graduation, you can pursue your career as a lawyer in judiciary, education industry, NGO and opportunities offered abroad,” said Rajpurohit.
 
 
