NEW DELHI: An autorickshaw driver was killed after his vehicle rammed a 14-wheeled trailer on the   and iron rods coming out of it pierced through his body. 

 The accident, which took place at 4.30am on Thursday, was such that fire officials had to cut open the   to take out the driver’s impaled body. Earlier, the Supreme Court had banned trucks and trailers from carrying iron rods or pipes that dangerously protrude out of them. 
 
 Police officers said that the trailer involved in Thursday’s accident did not follow the safety guideline of putting up a red cloth or a light to indicate it was carrying dangerously placed goods. The trailer had suddenly slowed down because of which the auto driver,   (40), who was very close to it, could not apply the brakes on time and hit it. 
 
 The driver of the   fled the spot and was booked under sections of culpable homicide. “We impounded the vehicle from the spot and informed the family members of the auto driver. Strict action will be taken against the truck driver,” said  , DCP, southeast.
 
 The police said there were two passengers in the auto who suffered minor injuries. Eyewitnesses told the police that the rear lights of the trailer were not visible from a distance as they were covered by the rods. Kumar’s body was handed over to his family after a postmortem.
 
 Three years ago, the road transport ministry had deleted Section 93 of Central Motor Vehicles Rules, 1989, which allowed goods vehicles to carry poles, rods or indivisible load “as long as the projecting part or parts did not exceed the distance of one metre beyond the rear most point of the vehicle”. However, drivers continued to carry such objects. 
 
 More than 10,000 people die on Indian roads due to the violation of this norm. At present, truck drivers don’t even follow the practice of fixing blinkers at the end of the protruding object to warn vehicles coming from behind. Though surprise checks are conducted at times, there is little policing on the highways or arterial roads.
 
 
