  's journey on   Dikhhla Jaa has been nothing short of a roller coaster ride. She joined the competition mid-way through her entry as a part of Farah Khan’s baccha party of wildcard contestants. And, despite biting the bitter pill of elimination during the initial leg of her journey, Teriya returned to the Jhalak stage to take home the trophy. The child prodigy in an exclusive interview with the Timesofindia.com, reveals that she loves   and wants to perform with her someday.
 
  "I didn't expect at all that I could be the Jhalak Dikhhla Jaa winner as I was competing with two great dancers Shantanu and Salman bhaiya. I would like to thank all my fans and celebrity friends who promoted and requested everyone to vote for me," shared Teriya.
  
  Describing her Jhalak journey, Teriya said, "My Jhalak journey has been a rollercoaster ride. The worst moment was when I was eliminated, but I was lucky that I returned to the show. I made sure that I make the most of the given opportunity and don't make any mistake. I worked really hard for the trophy and I am hapoy that my hardwork paid off."
  
  The wonder girl, who showed her versatility on the show by performing different dance forms, says she wants to perform with Sonakshi Sinha, "I really love Sonakshi Sinha. I think she has beautiful expressions. I would love to perform with her or choreograph her someday. Also it is my dream to perform with Prabhu Dheva and Remo D'souza sir."
  
  
 
  
  When asked about her future plans and if she is open to acting, Teriya said, "Yes, why not? If any interesting opportunity comes my way I would love to act in Bollywood or TV. Many of my friends have switched from dancing to acting and they are doing well in career. They still dance and are acting also so if I also get a chance I will definitely take it up."
  
  On being asked, about the prize money, she said, "When the last time I won Dance Indian Dance I had donated some amount of the prize money to a foundation on my name Teriya foundation. It works for education of underprivileged kids. So this time too I will contribute some amount for them."
