MUMBAI: If you didn't know better, her reaction would have left you thinking she had won the overall Indian women's event at the  . In reality, Ladakh runner   had crossed the line in third place, setting a new personal best time of 3:14:38 in the process.

 Despite her effort coming in a field shorn of India's best female long distance runners in  , OP Jaisha and  , it was still one of the heart-warming stories of the day. “I'm very happy I was able to finish third,” said Dolma, the radiant smile on her face reflecting her joy. “I thought I would finish sixth or seventh. “Only two days ago in that same hall, the 24-year-old sat quietly besides her Ladakhi companion Tsetan Dolkar, as even Sunita Godara, the elite Indian athletes coordinator, confessed her ignorance about the duo.
 
 One man well aware of her potential, though, was coach Savio D'Souza, a veteran Mumbai-based marathon trainer. And the two shared a warm embrace once Dolma descended from the stage. “I did not know they would finish third and fourth,” D'Souza said, adding: “I had told them 'I'm not interested in the placing. I want you'll to improve your timing, because if you do that then one day you'll be on the podium.' “The most pleasing aspect for D'Souza was the manner in which his protégés followed his instructions, particularly how comfortably they managed to achieve the 21.1k split target time of 1:45:00 to 1:47:00 he had set them. They both reached the mark in 1:34:35. “I told them `maintain your rhythm and don't get intimidated by the other Indian runners.”
 
 Saluting Dolma and Dolkar's readiness for sweat and toil, D'Souza, who has been working with the pair for almost two years, said the challenging conditions on offer in Ladakh contributed to a natural breeding ground for running talent. “Whenever the government talks about grassroot, that (places like Ladakh) is where it is, not in cities like Mumbai or Pune,” said the 63-year-old.
 
 “We were national champs. But our children have not taken up sports. Why? Because when you get everything on a platter, why should you work hard?
 
 For them (Dolma and Dolkar), that's the only way to come up in life,” he stressed.
 
