CHENNAI: The   on Friday attached assets worth Rs 33.74 crore that income tax officers seized from Chennai mining baron J Sekhar Reddy in a case registered by both the   and the ED after demonetisation last November.The development follows multiple searches by   that resulted in seizures of more than 177kg of unaccounted gold worth more than `50 crore and around Rs 140 crore in cash in both new and demonetised currency notes.

 ED, in a statement, said the cash they seized from Reddy were proceeds of criminal activities.
 
 Reddy failed to explain the source of the assets and money and how he had possession of such a large amount in cash soon after the Centre announced demonetisation six months ago, a time when banks did not have enough currency to disburse to their customers in exchange for demonetised notes, investigators said.
 
 The ED suspected that Reddy and his accomplices may have secured the new notes at a premium in exchange for demonetised notes. The directorate has attached the assets under provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002.
 
 ED officers said Reddy had admitted that the cash the I-T department seized from him belonged to his company ,   Mining, and that he could not account for the money .
 
 He told investigators that that the money was from his sand mining business, the ED statement said.
 
 The directorate has also established a link between Kolkata businessman Paras Mal Lodha and the Chennai businessman in the illegal conversion of banned Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 notes.
 
 The ED is probing Lodha and Reddy , both being inves tigated under the stringent Prevention of Money Laundering Act, for links with several politicians in Delhi, Chennai, Kolkata and other parts of the country .
 
 During income tax searches of his properties in Chennai last December, around a month after the government had announced demonetisation of highvalue currency notes, officers seized `34 crore in new `2,000 notes. Investigators have questioned Reddy and his associates about the source of this cash.
 
 Reddy is believed to have said around Rs 140 crore, including Rs 34 crore in new notes, and 177kg of gold bars that I-T officers seized from his properties constituted unaccounted income, but were proceeds from his mining business.
 
 Soon after the I-T seizures, the CBI registered an FIR against Reddy and his associates. The Enforcement Directorate later booked them under provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act.
 
 An ED spokesman said Reddy had exchanged old currency notes with new notes from Paras Mal Lodha and other intermediaries.
 
