RUDRAPUR/DEHRADUN/PITHORAGARH: With many candidates winning only by narrow margins in past elections in Uttarakhand, a lot hinges on   which may swing fortunes of those in the fray, say political analysts. 

 In the 9 assembly seats in   district for instance, the fate of many candidates will depend on 10,773-odd soldiers and government officers who vote remotely. In Garhwal districts like Chamoli and Rudraprayag, there are over 4,000 postal ballots while in the border district of Pithoragarh, over 13,000 voters, mostly from the defence fraternity, are voting through this medium. 
 
 As per figures issued by the state chief electoral officer, Uttarakhand has a total of 92,837 service voters who are voting through postal ballot. In the last elections, the figure of postal ballots stood at 1.19 lakh. In the run-up to the counting day in 2012, both Congress and BJP had raked up the matter of the importance of postal ballots and stressed on the need to ensure there was no discrepancy in factoring in these votes during counting. 
 
 This time around too, politicians have started stressing on their importance with state Congress chief Kishore Upadhyay expressing apprehensions on Sunday that the BJP- led central government might “try to influence the process of postal ballots, which could play a crucial role in as many as 20 constituencies.”
  
  In many districts, the process of receiving postal ballots is currently ongoing. In Udham Singh Nagar, the nodal officer has received nearly 3,335 postal ballots from soldiers and 6,146 from government employees who were performing election duty.
  
  District nodal officer for the postal ballots Subhash Chandra Gupta told TOI, “Khatima constituency with 2,162 soldiers and 393 government employees has the maximum number of postal ballots in our area, but so far 196 ballots have been received.”
  
  In Kiccha, where chief minister Harish Rawat is pitted against BJP’s sitting legislator Rajesh Shukla, there are 1,370 postal ballots — 254 soldiers and 1,116 state employees. As many as 941 ballots have been received here.
  
  Meanwhile, in Dehradun, almost 2500 postal ballots have been received till now. Ravinath Raman, district magistrate, Dehradun, told TOI, “ Since there is still some time for the counting day on March 11, so the numbers are bound to soar in the coming days.”
  
  Pithoragarh district has a total of 13,217 service voters spread across four constituencies Dharchula, Gangolihat, Didihat and Pithoragarh. District election officials said that the process of computing the number of postal ballots was still ongoing.
  
  (Inputs by Aakash Ahuja, Seema Sharma & Prem Punetha)
