MUMBAI: A   was   by four unidentified men in his   home in   in a case of supected  . Two of his Indian   suffered bullet injuries to their legs. 

 The victim, Rakesh Talreja (25), worked as a salesperson for Caribbean Jewellers in Kingston. On Friday morning, Rakesh’s parents, who reside on Ambadi Road in Vasai (W), got a call from his employer informing that their son had been shot dead at 7pm (Jamaican time) on Thursday. 
 
 India is over 10 hours ahead of Jamaica.
 
 Rakesh’s employer would ask his employees to take a portion of the day’s cash collection home to avoid theft at the store. Rakesh’s family members suspect that the robbers knew about this and hence, targeted him. 
 
 Four men are believed to have entered Rakesh’s home in Cherry Gardens, Kingston 8, which he shared with two Indians, with an intention to rob. Rakesh was in his bedroom on the first floor. The men reportedly took the roommates’ cash and cellphones at gunpoint and then snatched Rakesh’s cellphone. It is not known if he resisted. The men pumped three bullets in Rakesh’s back and also shot at his roommates and fled. Rakesh was rushed to hospital, but declared dead before admission. His two roommates, who were shot in their legs, are undergoing treatment in a local hospital. According to unconfirmed reports, one of his roommates is from Ulhasnagar and the other from Kerala. 
 
 The   are examining footage collected from closed-circuit television cameras in the vicinity to get leads on the killers’ identity. 
 
 Rakesh’s father Prakash told TOI, “I don’t know what exactly happened. Why was my son killed in his own flat? They could have just taken away his valuables.” 
 
 Rakesh’s uncle Harish urged the Jamaican government and Indian external affairs minister to help nab the murders. “We want to know why an innocent boy, who only wanted to do good work, was shot dead mercilessly,” he added.
 
 After completing SYBCom, Rakesh got a job offer to work in Kingston and moved there two-and-a-half years ago. He never visited home since then, but would call his parents every Sunday. “He used to share videos and photographs and he looked happy,” said his brother-in-law Vicky Lalwani. 
 
 “Rakesh had promised to come home this year,” said Lalwani. “Now, his body will be brought home. We have been told it will take a couple of days for the body to reach Mumbai,” he added. 
 
 Rakesh’s elder brother Mahesh is employed in Africa, said his family members.
 
 
