BHOPAL: State   on Monday filed a defamation suit against chief minister   and state BJP president Nandkumar Singh Chauhan in the court of chief judicial magistrate Bhubhaskar Yadav for allegedly making an offensive statement against the party during the Shahdol bypolls held in November last year.

 Following October 31 encounter of suspected SIMI activists here, Chouhan while canvassing for BJP’s candidate Gyan Singh at a public meeting early in November last year, had allegedly accused the Congress of protecting terrorists. “He had said ‘Congress ka haath, aatankwadiyon ke saath (Congress hand symbol in support of terrorists)’, ” chief spokesman of state Congress KK Mishra told TOI. “After this speech in Shahdol, an edited version was uploaded on state BJP’s official Facebook page.”
 
 Party leaders said that   chief Arun Yadav found the chief minister’s comment regarding the party “highly insulting” and authorised Mishra to take legal action. “On November 9 last year, the video clipping of the chief minister’s speech was uploaded on BJP’s Facebook page. Next day, we sent the chief minister and party’s state chief a registered letter while asking them to prove the allegation levelled against the Congress party. But, Chauhan refused to accept the mail,” Mishra told TOI.
 
 The Congress had demanded a public apology within 15 days for humiliating and hurting sentiments of crores of Congress party workers. “Congress is a 130 year-old party which lost Father of the Nation Mahatma Gandhi, former prime ministers Indira Gandhi and   besides ex Punjab chief minister Beant Singh, to terrorism. For a party which has made so many sacrifices to fight terror, a sentence like this is highly objectionable,” Mishra added.
 
 Congress claimed that the statement by the CM was made to gain political mileage during the by-election. “It was a well thought-out strategy to take advantage by showing the Congress in poor light. The statement was made to influence voters,” Mishra alleged.
 
 Chouhan’s legal representative Srahraj Saxena gave a reply to the Congress letter dated November 10, in the first week of January. But with no apology coming, the Congress decided to take the matter to court and filed the law suit under Section 500 (defamation) of the IPC. Case has been admitted and next hearing is scheduled for March 1.
 
