NEW DELHI: Two days after a speeding   rammed a cab, another such incident was reported from west Delhi’s   late on Tuesday. A couple had a close shave after a BMW rammed their bike and then a WagonR. While the couple escaped with injuries, the crash left their bike a mangled heap.

 The offending driver, Ajay Manchanda, was heading home after attending a marriage in Kirti Nagar. Eyewitnesses said that the man was drunk and could barely stand after they pulled him out of the car.
 
 “We had gone to Fateh Nagar Gurudwara at 10pm. When we were about to take a left turn, the speeding BMW came from the wrong side of the road and collided with our vehicle,” said Ruchika Thakur, the injured woman.
 
 Her husband, Sanjeev Thakur, owns a car repair shop. He said that he had recently repaired his bike after someone hit it while it was parked near his workplace.
 
 “The situation could have turned fatal if we had fallen in front of the car. The driver had no control of his vehicle. When we confronted him, he threatened us with his high status saying nothing will happen to him as he is very powerful,” Sanjeev said.
 
 Manchanda tried to escape, but by then a crowd had gathered. “He stayed inside his vehicle till the police came. His wife soon arrived in her Mercedes and tried to fight with us, but she was asked to go away and not create a nuisance,” Ruchika said.
 
 “The BMW driver was taken to the hospital where a medical test confirmed that he was drunk. He has been arrested,” said DCP (west)  .
 
 Ruchika and her husband were discharged from Deen Dayal Upadhyay hospital on Wednesday morning after treatment. Sanjeev is the sole earning member of the family. However, he’ll have to take a break from work as doctors have advised him complete bedrest for at least four months. The family is worried about meeting daily expenses.
 
 Local residents said that such incidents are common in the area as the roads are broad and have no dividers. Due to this, people drive at high speed thereby causing accidents.
 
