Two vessels namely, M T BW Maple and M T Dawn Kanchipuram while crossing each other collided at 3:45 AM on January 28 outside the   harbour in  .

 
  M T Dawn Kanchipuram, which was carrying 32,813 tonnes of Petroleum, Oil, & Lubricants, suffered a rupture which led to an  . There was no casualty or injury to the crew members. 
 
 
  Kamarajar Port had immediately deployed oil boom around the vessel to contain seepage, if any. After examination, the damaged vessel was towed safely and berthed at Kamarajar Port on January 30 to prevent any further possibility of oil spill.
 
 
 As soon as the oil leak was tracked, the   started mobilizing equipment and manpower for clean-up at various locations and coordinated these operations. Groups were formed and cleaning work was undertaken at different places of the shoreline.
 
 
  A massive clean-up operation was launched in Tiruvallur, Chennai and Kancheepuram districts by engaging more than 2,000 people at various sites including Ernavur, Chennai Fishing Harbour, Marina Beach, Besant Nagar, Kottivakkam, Palavakkam, Neelankarai and Injambakkam beaches. 
 
 
 The Coast Guard has been coordinating the cleaning operations jointly with personnel from the   and Kamarajar Port, the state government and its agencies,  , NGOs, cadet trainees from maritime educational institutions and fishermen. 
 
 
 In addition, 3 Super Suckers and submersible pumps were deployed to remove the oil spill. The Coast Guard also sprayed Oil Spill Dispersants for removal of oil slick. ICGS Varad with TC-3 and 2,000 litres of Oil Spill Dispersant (OSD) sailed out and neutralized remaining oil slick near the Chennai Lighthouse.
 
 
 The total quantity of sludge which was removed till February 2 was 65 tonnes. On February 3, about 21.1 tonnes of additional sludge was removed from  , which had the maximum drift of sludge.
 
 
 The Coast Guard ship and helicopters are carrying out regular sorties for continuous monitoring of oil slick. More than 90 per cent of the work has been completed and most of the residual work is expected to be completed in a couple of days, an official release by the government said.
 
 
 The Indian Oil Corporation has provided special bio-remediation material for treatment of the collected oil sludge for its safe disposal. HPCL has arranged for Trailers and manpower for transporting collected sludge to Ennore Port area for bioremediation treatment.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
