KORAPUT: Incarcerated tribal leader and president of   ( ),  , filed his nomination papers for the Narayanpatna zilla parishad seat in Koraput district on Tuesday. 

 Nachika, who is lodged in the Koraput circle jail since October 29, 2014, filed his nomination papers before Koraput sub-collector through his lawyer Gupta Prasad Panigrahi. "Though Nachika is an undertrial prisoner, he expressed his desire to contest the upcoming panchayat polls. Hence, I filed his nomination papers, on his behalf," said Panigrahi. 
 
 Nachika, who was on run evading arrest for his alleged involvement in several criminal cases, including murders, arson and dacoit, since November 2009 surrendered before a police team and elected panchayat members at his village, Bhaliaput under Narayanpatna police limits, on October 28, 2014, and was subsequently arrested. 
 
 According to Panigrahi, the tribal leader was arrested for his alleged involvement in at least 54 cases registered in Narayanpatna, Laxmipur, Bandhugaon and Semiliguda police stations in the district. Till now, he has been acquitted in 37 cases and trial is on for the remaining 17, said Panigrahi. 
 
 Nachika, a bonded labourer, rose to prominence after he launched an anti-liquor campaign in Narayanpatna and Bandhuaon blocks, a decade ago. Citing liquor is ruining the lives of tribals, he and his supporters targeted liquor traders who defied their diktat. Subsequently he formed the CMAS and found against alleged illegal occupancy of tribal land by non-tribals in the area.
 
 However, in the later part of 2008, the CMAS got divided into two units namely Bandhugaon and Narayanpatna reportedly for a dispute in the organisational leadership. Nachika Linga led the Narayanpatna unit. During mid-2009, the CMAS got involved in more violent activities and started forcibly occupying non-tribal lands citing it to be their own which the non-tribals have taken by deceit. 
 
 Fearing attack from the sangh members, hundreds of non-tribal left their villages and took shelter at other places. Even after eight years several non-tribal families are still spending their lives as nomads fearing to go to their village. 
 
 During the land grabbing spree, the CMAS occupied around 3,000 acres of non-tribal land in Narayanpatna. On November 20, 2009, around 300 CMAS members reportedly attacked the Narayanpatna police station in which two CMAS leaders died in police firing and Nachika went underground.
 
 
