CHENNAI: An attempt to play   on court documents in order to win a favourable order has cost a man Rs 50,000. The court imposed the sum as cost on Jayaraman, and directed him to pay it to Bala Gurukulam School at Villivakkam. 

 The court also ordered initiation of criminal proceedings for  , false evidence and other relevant penal provisions against him.
 
 The criminal proceedings, to be set in motion by the high court registry which would lodge a complaint, will be tried by the appropriate forum on a day-to-day basis without adjourning the matter beyond three working days at any point of time, the court said. 
 
 Justice S Vaidyanathan, passing the orders, said, “Since the petitioner has completely tried to mislead the court and has taken every one for a ride, this court is of the view that he has to be tried under the provisions of IPC with regard to the fraud played by him in forging the sale deed in question. If the offence attracts any other penal provisions, the same can also be invoked.”
 
 Jayaraman, who was involved in a property dispute with another person, moved the court after the electricity department found that service connection had been wrongly given in his name, and cancelled it. He wanted the cancellation order to be quashed. However, in the set of documents he had filed in the court, he apparently inserted one document as original.
 
 Justice Vaidyanathan, perusing the documents, sid, “Though the original sale deed has six pages, including the last page, while comparing the same with the register of non-testamentary documents produced by the sub-registrar, Kaveripakkam, it is seen that the contents of page no 4 dated October 25, 1985, in the original sale deed are not found in the said register of non-testamentary documents. Moreover, the seal of the sub-registrar office concerned is not found on the backside of page no 4 of the original sale deed produced, whereas the seal is found on the backside of all other pages. A comparison of the original sale deed with that of its certified copy clearly shows that the petitioner has played fraud by inserting a page in the original Sale Deed and tried to achieve things, which are not admittedly due to him.”
 
 
