 For many years now, movie-buffs have been logging on to the internet and hitting the torrent button to watch their favorite movie, sometimes even before the film’s hit the screens. Come June 2017 and all those who’ve spent hours downloading their favourite movies,TV shows,music from torrents will be unable to do so. According to a report by Torrent Freak, Google, Bing and other search engines are teaming up with the entertainment industry to ban torrent aggregators from its search results. This should bring in a huge respite for the local film industry that has seen some of its most popular movies leaked online even before their theatrical releases. The fight against piracy and illegal downloads has dented the BO collection in recent times, and this news comes as a great relief. While, the search engine ban on torrents sites might keep piracy at in control,this is not a complete solution as torrents will still be available through direct websites, other search engines and illegal streaming. 

 ◗ DHOLLYWOOD’S HAPPY Just when Gujarati movies had starting to rake in the moolah, in a shocking turn of events some of the most popular films were leaked online.This not only impacted their BO revenue, but also hurt the morale of filmmakers and actors. “All my movies have been leaked online,”rues Malhar Thakar. He adds,“I would be extremely grateful if piracy stops or even if we are making efforts to curb it. Video sharing websites play a major role in piracy as well and cybercrime cells should make sure to catch hold of such cyber criminals and punish them.” A film becoming available for free download means a direct impact on its collection. And since Gujarati films are still cementing their hold at the BO, online piracy is a big threat. “It becomes difficult to generate revenue if a film is available online, which also means that the filmmakers incur huge losses and will have to think twice about making films in the future,” says actor, director and producer Shital Shah. She adds,“When my first movie as a director was released last year I tried all the possible methods to stop it from being pirated or going online on any video sharing website.” 
 
 ◗ CHANGE IN PERCEPTION Many feel that piracy has become such an integral part of movie watching, that many times people don’t even realize they are doing something illegal by downloading or even uploading a pirated copy. Filmmaker Ishaan Randeria says, “The audience needs to know that piracy is a crime and that they should refrain from sharing,shooting or leaking any film content from the theaters.” Shital shares, “I have come across a lot of people who tell me that they will watch my film when it is available online or download torrents. They are not even aware that it is a crime.”On a lighter note, she also states, “As an actor, my work being leaked online only makes me more popular, but as a producer it kills me.” It will be sometime before we can actually stop people from watching content online for free.For starters, mindsets need to change. 
 
 ◗ MUSICIANS TOO WELCOME THE MOVE It’s no secret that the music industry faces the biggest brunt of piracy with almost every song available for a free download. With torrents going down and pirated copies becoming hard to find, the musicians will benefit a lot. Jainam Modi says, “Pirated versions of songs are so easily available online, that the very thought of buying or even listening to an original copy has gone out of people’s vocabulary." And with internet available on mobiles,piracy in music has hurt not only the film industry, but also indie musicians. Lyricist Mayur Puri too had told AT in an earlier interview that piracy will never let music grow.He said,“If you want music to be received as art,stop
 piracy.” The step towards curbing pirated content online is sure to bring happiness to all music makers. Music composer Maulik Mehta sums it up, “This move will help music companies make more money, which in turn will help us (musicians) get our due.I think it is a fantastic move.”
 
 
 
