CHENNAI: There is hardly a month to go before the   (NEET) for medical admission. But the state government, having passed a bill and awaiting an unlikely assent by the President, has nothing to tell the nine lakh-odd   in the state. It is time to face hard facts.

 Jurists are of the view that NEET is here to stay, and Tamil Nadu can do little to defer it. And the two bills passed by the   on January 31 and forwarded to the Centre for presidential assent could be deemed faulty , as they target an issue sitting pretty on the central list, where a central law -the Indian Medical Council Act -is in operation. “Medical education does not come under the concurrent list. It falls under the central list referable to entry 66, where Parliament has made a law, subsequent to the constitutional bench judgment of the Supreme Court on NEET. As such, the apex court ruling makes NEET mandatory with effect from 2011. However, heeding to requests from states like TN, a law was made in 2016 granting one year exemption for MBBS admissions in government colleges alone,“ said  , former judge of the Madras high court.
 
 These states walked into a trap, and got themselves committed to the fact that from 2017 onwards, NEET will be implemented for MBBS seats in government and private colleges, besides deemed universities. And, as per Section 10-B of the MCI Act, the MCI would be conduct ng the examina ion, said Justice Chandru.
 
 So what will be and postgraduate the criteria for MBBS and postgraduate admissions this academic year? The 15% of seats allocated under the all-India quota and the post-graduate medical courses, will be filled solely on the basis of NEET, where they would be treated as a national rank list.
 
 As for MBBS, NEET will be an   and not a rank list, said Justice Chandru. “It will be a qualifier like the Teacher Eligibility Test for school teachers and State Level Eligibility Test for college lecturers,“ he said.
 
 The state cannot have any other admission mode if the CBSE conducts NEET on April 7, he said, referring to the misadventure of the Chhattisgarh government last year. In 2016, Chhattisgarh conducted its own selection, but it was struck down by the SC on January 17, 2017. As for the fate of the affected students, the apex court said the state wanted to play a gamble, let them pay for the result of the gamble.
 
 P Wilson, former additional solicitorgeneral of India, however, says there are two possibilities left. An amicable end to the issue would be the Presidential assent for the bills passed by the TN assembly .“Or, the Centre could promulgate an Ordinance amending Section 10-D of Indian Medical Council Act, thereby extending the exemption till 2018, and probably for PG medical courses as well,“ Wilson said.
 
