Nagpur: The Common Admission Process (CAP) introduced for the first time for Nagpur University’s (NU) 14 postgraduate courses has proved to be a game-changer with all seats except seven in Group A getting filled up on the last day of Round II on Wednesday.

 The remaining seven seats of genetic engineering too are expected to be filled by Thursday.
 
 However, in Group B, humanities failed to get a similar response as not even 40% seats were taken after the first round. For 1,150 seats, only 400 applications were received of which 375 finally took admissions. Now, the remaining seats will be offered in spot admissions, but officials believe the final tally could only go up to 800-900.
 
 NU had notified rules and regulations for CAP for the 2017-18 academic year last month. The sale of forms, display of merit list and CAP Rounds I & II were meticulously planned and executed at Gram Geeta Bhavan on the Amravati Road campus. A three-member committee headed by GS Khadekar was also formed to monitor the process. Sanjay Dhobale and Shyam Koretti were the other members.
 
 Khadekar said, “The university’s postgraduate courses have received tremendous response. There are some courses like computer science and electronics which weren’t too popular until last year. Even zoology and botany drew very good response this time.”
 
 He attributed the success to reasons like higher fee at colleges to lack of awareness. “Many students didn’t know that the fee for a course was much less which otherwise would cost them Rs30,000 outside. Reserved category students are charged nominal or 50% fee at NU departments. But, there was lack of awareness or many a time, they were misguided,” he said.
 
 Khadekar said NU is also planning to accommodate students from its sister institution Gondwana University where they may not be getting a range of courses.
 
 “The pro vice-chancellor will take a decision on the basis of governor’s direction. Since Gondwana University is new, it does not have many PG programmes. So the plan is to increase intake by another 20% exclusively for Gondwana students,” he said.
 
 Pro-VC Pramod Yeole didn’t answer to TOI’s calls.
 
 Khadekar said NU has already given preference to Gondwana students by offering them seats reserved for outside NU but within Maharashtra category.
 
 Meanwhile, complaints of malpractices surfaced during the final round. Some students alleged admissions were given without following the merit list.
 
 Khadekar said actually they were the applicants who didn’t turn up in the first CAP round. The committee had already mentioned in the schedule that such students will not be considered for the second round.
 
 
