NAGPUR: The tougher norms for doctorate of philosophy (PhD) degrees notified by Nagpur University last year seem to be have worked with the shortlisting of just 238 applicants. 

 Pro-VC   told TOI that 269 had applied but 32 applications were rejected. After Research Recognition Committee ( ) meeting later this month, there is a possiblity of the number further going down to 200 as the screening is still going on. 
 
 The NU had awarded 842 PhDs during its convocation held in November 2016. 
 
 Yeole said, “The RRC meeting has been delayed because of the upcoming municipal elections. The meeting is likely to be held either in the last week of February or first week of March.”
 
 Though the comparative figures were not readily available, sources in PhD cell said this year the number of applicants has gone down. 
 
 Yeole said technical grounds and competitiveness would ensure quality work is done. “Course work will have to be cleared by the aspirants before starting of PhDs. These and several other reforms will ensure only genuine researchers get through.”
 
 This year, 3,500 had appeared for the Phd entrance test (PET-I). But, only 897 were found eligible to appear for PET-II of which 369 managed to clear the test. This number came down by another 100 applications and finally 269 applications were received till the last date.
 
 In 2016, NU came up with tougher norms to curb plagiarism in PhD degrees. It already replaced its older version of PhD entrance test (PET) with new one having PET-I and PET-II which thoroughly checks candidates’ knowledge in particular subject. The NU had started online registration for the aspirants, who cleared both PETs in 2016. 
 
 The NU had also made approved guides mandatory only from its recognized research centres, as per   norms. It had put restrictions on guides for admitting students. A professor can guide at the most eight students, associate professor — six students, and assistant professor — four. Moreover, the candidates can’t submit the thesis before three years and not after five years of clearing PETs. 
 
 
