CHANDIGARH: Barely four days before the India-Australia series decider, grass blades were still there on the   ( ) Stadium track in Dharamshala as per reports. What may worry Indian captain   at this juncture would be the nature of the wicket, which the pitch curator says will be “fast and bouncy“.

 Although Sunil Chauhan, the man in charge of the 22-yard strip at the HPCA Stadium (which is making its debut as a Test centre), wasn't willing to divulge much, he was upfront about the expected behaviour of the wicket. The fourmatch series is currently tied 1-1.
 
 “It will behave as it has done naturally here. It will stay fast and bouncy ,“ Chauhan told TOI over the phone. “Our pitch is one of the most difficult ones for the batsmen (when facing fast bowlers) in Ranji Trophy , and it's nature won't be altered,“ he added, which should cheer up the Aussies further, after they fought out of their skin to draw the third Test in Ranchi and keet the series alive.
 
 However, pitches in India have often changed character by the time the D-Day arrives. So, it will be interesting to see what is offered to the teams on March 24.
 
 By classifying the strip as “difficult“, Chauhan was probably trying to point at what happened in three Ranji Trophy matches held at the venue in the season gone by. Bengal speedster Ashok Dinda's match haul of 10 wickets leads the list of those examples. In the low-scoring match between Bengal and Railways, where the highest team total was 271, Dinda's 545 and 567 scripted Bengal's 43run win.
 
 Ishwar Pandey, the Madhya Pradesh medium-pacer, was the next to take advantage of the juice in Dharamshala wicket. He had a match haul of 748 in the game MP won by 232 runs against Baroda, bowling out the opposition for 164 and 114. The highest total, though, still didn't cross 300. The only Ranji game where batsmen enjoyed the upper hand was the first of the season in Dharamshala, when help off the pitch and in the air was the least for pacers. But still, Tamil Nadu pacer T Natarajan (483) and Uttar Pradesh seamer Ankit Rajpoot (4120) left an impression in the drawn match, in which Samarth Singh and Abhinav Mukund scored 187 and 154.
 
 Unperturbed by the pressure of HPCA hosting a Test for the first time, Chauhan said he and his staff are going about pitch preparation as they do for a first-class match. “Our preparation is the same and efforts are focused at providing a track that a five-day game needs, with something in it for everyone,“ he said.
 
 The HPCA Stadium has hosted three ODIs and eight T20Is till now; but the ground's debut in the longest format, considering the state of the series, could decide how long it will have to wait to host another Test.
 
 
