JAIPUR/JAISALMER: The intelligence wing of the Rajasthan police has requested the government to reopen 25   Outposts (BIOs) across SriGanganagar, Jaisalmer, Bikaner and Barmer in order to keep a watch on the activities of Pakistan’s   ( ). These BIOs had become defunct after the fencing alongside the intentional border was completed.

 According to DIG, H G R Suhasaa, a letter has been sent to the state home ministry to reopen these BIOs. “In past few months, we have nabbed several people who were doing espionage for Pakistan’s ISI. We have decided to reopen these defunct outposts to ensure that vital strategic information is not passed over across the border,” he added.
 
 The intelligence sources told TOI that most of these defunct outposts are in Jaisalmer which shares a 471 long km international border with Pakistan. 
 
 “We are seeking to re-open 11 outposts in Jaisalmer, these mainly are in Sultana, Shahgarh, Ghanana, Devikot, Dabadi, Chinu etc,” the official said, adding that many of these outposts were shut down in 1995.
 
 The request comes in the wake of recent arrests of residents of these districts who were caught spying for Pakistan, “We have arrested Sadiq Khan, Haji Khan, Bemiyar Khan and   we suspect that all of them passed information about Indian troops to their handlers in Pakistan,” an official said.
 
 The intelligence officials have also sought to re-open seven outposts in Barmer, “Some of these outposts are Sedwa, Gagriya, Ghandav, Panchala, and Janpaliya. We currently have eight intelligence outposts in Barmer, the new outposts would be used for purposes ranging from anti-narcotics to counter-espionage operations,” the official said.
 
 Recommendations have also been sent to re-open four outposts in SriGanganagar, the district shares a 204-km-long border with Pakistan. In Bikaner, two defunct outposts in Ranjeetpura and Pugal are sought to be reopened. 
 
 “We are currently operating with six outposts in SriGanganagar and four in Bikaner, the new outposts will allow us to further dismantle the Pakistan’s spy network,” added an official. 
 
 According to sources, these outposts were closed down after it was their services were no longer required. “Pakistan is interested to know the details about the infrastructure and geographic speifications in these area among other important informations, new outposts will help us to watch over our strategic interests,” the official said. 
 
 HGR Suhasaa, who led operations that fetched several ISI spies, said that regular meetings are being held with cops deployed in these outposts and resources are being provided to them. 
 
 
