 chief minister   on Monday said the youth who pelt stones at security forces in the Valley are in distress and need to be engaged to understand their problems.

 “We have to focus on our children (stone-pelters) because they are in pain, they are in distress. I feel that the need is to engage them, to understand their problems and I am happy that (her brother and PDP candidate for Anantnag by-polls) (Mufti) Tasaduq (Hussain) is trying to play a part in that," Mehbooba told reporters after addressing a workers convention in Shopian district of south Kashmir.
 
 The chief minister said the security forces also have to show restraint while dealing with law and order problems.
 
 “Definitely , that is something without which nothing will work. The army and security forces have to show restraint and they are showing restraint," she said.
 
 Mehbooba said unemployment and restlessness of the youth in the Valley was the biggest challenge for her government.
 
 The youth picking up stones is a big issue. The biggest challenge that my government faces is the youth, their unemployment and the biggest of all the restlessness in their minds. We did not create this in the last one or two years, this restlessness has been there for many years now," she said. “Our strength lies in democracy and democracy is the battle of ideas. Any problem, be it small or bigger one like we have in Jammu & Kashmir, its solution lies only in talks and dialogue," she said.
 
 She said “we have in the past as well held dialogue many-a-times, we have had agreements, we have had Shimla agreement and prior to that Tashkent agreement and after that Lahore declaration."
 
 “And internally , we had Sheikh Abdullah accord (Indira-Abdullah accord), Rajiv (Gandhi)-Farooq (Abdullah) accord and similar talks were held like with Hurriyat during the time of (former deputy PM) L K Advani when A B Vajpayee was our PM."
 
 “And, (PM) Narendra Modi himself yesterday mentioned Vajpayee, saying people liked him because during his tenure he looked for Kashmir solution within the ambit of humanity," Mehbooba said.
 
 She said her father and former CM Mufti Mohammad Sayeed gave a roadmap in the face of Agenda of Alliance the common minimum programme between the PDP and the BJP in which solution of all difficulties lies. PTI
 
 
 
 
 Terrorists opened fire at a CRPF minibus on the outskirts of Srinagar on Monday afternoon, killing one CRPF jawan and wounding five paramilitary men and a schoolgirl. The ambush took place at Pantha Chowk when a CRPF convoy was arriving in Srinagar from Jammu for election duty, CRPF IG Ravideep Sahi said. Head constable Basapa succumbed to his injuries at the 92 Base Hospital. The schoolgirl injured in the attack was identified as 10-year-old Zainab of Drangbal Pampore, official sources added. The terror attack on security force personnel comes a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugrurated Asia's longest road tunnel at Chanani-Nashri, Udhampur. The militant group Lashkar-e-Taiba claimed responsibility for the attack, the spokesman said. In a statement here, Mehmood Shah, LeT chief, said: “Militants will never disappoint people. Support and back us and we will never let you down." Monday's terror strike was the third on security forces in the last three days.
 
