CHENNAI: The number of students from government schools making it to medical colleges have seen an 80% drop -from 30 in 2016 to only 2 in 2017. And this number may only drop further unless the government's promise of setting up training centres for competitive exams takes shape. With no clear deadlines on the setting up of these coaching centres, students from government schools are automatically on the back foot when compared to their peers in private schools under the state board. While education depart ment officials said coaching centres may be set up in about two months, they could not come up with particular dates. “We are in the process of identifying schools for each cluster or block where the centres can be set up. The tenders will also have to be finalised following which we can announce when the centres will be set up,“ said a senior official from the department. The government is also yet to decide on the time frame for releasing question banks to aid students preparing for  .

 Many students from private schools of state board and other boards are well into intensive medical coaching for more than four months now since they enrolled in private centres at the start of the academic year. Many have also opted for a gap year.
 
 These students naturally will have an edge over students from government schools who cannot afford to pay the private tuition centres. Government school teachers said while access was one factor, another was also the low level of interest in pursuing medicine among government and aided school students.
 
 “A majority of those who get above 490 in Class 10 opt for commerce and very few opt for medicine. As of now, those preparing for medicine even in Class XI are in single digit,“ said a teacher from St Ebbas Higher Secondary School. Some teachers also opined government school students could be encouraged to pursue medicine by quickly establishing the training centres and providing the right atmosphere to learn. Similarly, teachers at rls HSS in Ashoknagar Girls HSS in Ashoknagar said out of about 350 students in Class XII, 30 were interested in medicine.
 
 There are also few students who have managed to enroll themselves in private centres offering free coaching to government school students.  , a Class XII government student, said he heard about   academy offering coaching to government students free and has decided to register in the centre. However, such students constitute a rather small slice of the larger pie.
 
 Educationist   pointed out government school teachers should be given a free hand to teach, especially when it comes to science and maths subjects. “Coaching centres should be set up as early as possible for government students but we cannot rely completely on them to fetch results for NEET this year. We need to first create a fair platform for all students so that government school students are not discriminated against,“ he said.
 
 He also said there should be a quota system in terms of those appearing for the first time and those who have attempted already.
 
