By a happy coincidence, I write this from  , where I’m researching authentic Chinese flavours with the guidance of eminent food editors. My review of Jia, Mumbai’s hottest new Oriental restaurant follows. It’s been packed ever since it opened. In order to evaluate consistency, I dined here thrice (therefore the three photos). Each time, we came away delighted as did the guests there — be it the superachiever threesome of Zinia Lawyer, pioneering beer baroness,  , brilliant artist and Shernaz Vakil, high-flying industrialist or the super-stylish Lopa Chinai — the thumbs up was unanimous.

 
 
 A two-levelled, windowless restaurant enrobed in grey undertones and topped by an eclectic all-white ceiling that resembles a bee hive. We preferred dining on the mezzanine floor; it has a greater feeling of space.
 
 
 
 Jia is Royal China’s stylish sibling: expanded dim sum menu, Japanese, Thai and modern Chinese, as well as a separate vegetarian menu here. Fresh and perfectly sliced sashimi, plump and thin-skinned dim sum (ask for Sea Bass Dim Sum, Mushroom Cheung Fun), crisp and light tempura. Wickedly enjoyable and juicy Pork Belly, tenderloin in wine;   sauce came up tops. Are some of Jia’s flavours too bold, too unrelenting? Happily, Chef Tamang balances them skillfully. Be it the baked to perfection and kissed with honey Sea Bass, the vibrant crispy Duck Salad, or the new addition of Tofu skin-stuffed vegetables. Smooth creaminess marked the deliciousness of the Milk Chocolate Praline, Chocolate Hazelnut Mousse and Salted Caramel Verrine.
 
 
 
 The kitchen does not ace everything. Their signature Jia Sushi Roll, overloaded with too many flavours kept falling apart. The sushi is not at par with the Chinese menu. Lacklustre Mango Yoghurt; some of the desserts are oversweet. The music can get too loud.
 
 
 
 Adding oomph to Oriental fare, serving it in a smart, glossy space, adding on a separate Vegetarian menu…35-year-old Neville Vazifdar sure has his finger on Mumbai’s foodie pulse. Their Royal China continues to be popular. Before passing Jia in flying colours in order to monitor consistency, I dined there thrice (as always, I paid my bills). Sushi lags behind the parade of the bold, vibrant, modern Chinese and the superb dim sum. Interestingly, Jia is popular with the most under-exposed palates as with the gourmets. We welcome you Jia! Keep up your standards… Wish you a long life. Not referring to Reliance at all when I say… Jio, JIA!
 
