HYDERABAD: Actor   said on Friday that he was among the 12 big names from   who were issued notices by   for possession and use of narcotic substances including LSD. But he denied that he ever took drugs and told the media he would appear before excise officials and clarify matters.

 “Yes, I have got a notice.This does not mean that I am in anyway involved. Officials have done their job of giving a notice based on whatever information they had. And it will be my responsibility to give them a reply ,“ Navdeep said. A few weeks ago, he said he was in touch with an event manager for an event. “Since, I was in touch with him, my number would certainly be in his mobile phone and therefore I have been called. I have nothing to do with drugs and this is what I will tell officials,“ Navdeep said. “It is just a matter of time before the matter is sorted out,“ he said.
 
 Nandu, another actor, went straight to the office of the prohibition and excise commissioner to find out if his name figured among the suspected. “Since my name is doing the rounds, I thought I should clarify (my position). They told me my name was not on the list. I have never taken drugs,“ he said. He said he did not get any notice.
 
 Actor Subba Raju confirmed that he had got the notice from officials. “I am surprised that I have been sent a notice.Neither me nor any of my friends are involved in drugs. I will meet officials and answer their questions,“ he said.
 
 Actress Charmee Kaur also chose to react. “If people are trying to bring you down, it only means that you are above them,“ she tweeted. Her reaction is being seen in the context of the drugs case. Her name too was doing the rounds with regard to the notice being sent to appear before   in the drugs case.
 
 For some of the actors, their names being linked to the drug scandal, came as a shock. “If only my father was alive, he would have answered for me, but as someone who is responsible for my family , I will answer for myself. I am not involved in this drugs affair,“ actor Tanish said. He also said he had got no notice. Actor Tarun said his family was pained and distressed to see that his name had been dragged into the case. “I have received a notice and I see no reason why it should have been sent to me. I will clarify to officials that I have no links with the drugs scandal,“ he said.
 
 Actress Mumait Khan said she had got no notices and urged that her name not be dragged into it. “I have never done drugs and I will never do it,“ she said in a video statement.
 
