Kolkata: Experts appointed by the National Green Tribunal ( ) who carried out an Environment Impact Assessment of the the Rabindra Sarobar  , suggested football and cricket matches that draw huge crowds should not be allowed there. If at all such mega events are organized, they should be held during the day. In case they begin late, it should be ensured they get over by 6.30pm – 7.00pm, the expert committee said in its comprehensive report.

 The committee was set up by the NGT after environment activist Subhas Datta challenged the holding of Indian Super League (ISL) matches at the stadium in the evenings. Later, Mohun Bagan also faced trouble during its I-League home matches at the stadium. The matches were finally allowed to be held with several restrictions. The NGT also imposed several restrictions on the performance of Chhath Puja at the Sarobar Lake in 2016. The experts also believe those performing Chhath Puja should be convinced to do so elsewhere.
 
 Studies conducted by the committee found there is excess sound and illumination during floodlit matches that has an adverse impact on the environment. It has also been noted PM10 levels increase by 10-32mg/cubic metre during such matches, while the average PM10 level in Kolkata is 20mg/cubic metre. Scientists who are part of the team believe the air quality, particularly PM10 levels, at the lake should be monitored regularly.
 
 “The height of the black light guards installed during the last ISL match should be increased. Spectators should not be allowed to burst fire crackers or carry food items into the Lake premises. Instead, the organizers should provide safe drinking water for spectators and others at the venue. Football matches should be held at the stadium only occasionally and that too, only for two hours a day. The Lake is in very bad state with respect to pollution. Immediate action should be taken by the Kolkata Improvement Trust (KIT) to save the Lake. KIT and other agencies should create awareness among Chhath Puja performers — at least a month in advance — and convince them to use other waterbodies,” the report said.
 
 The report further mentions that nearly 30-40,000 people enter the Lake premises during Chhath Puja causing massive loss of biodiversity. The rituals also pollute the Lake and grounds. The experts have recommended that KIT draw up fresh agreements with the clubs in the Lake premises. They feel the clubs should not be allowed to turn into social entities. The report also suggested that bars and open eateries not be allowed at the clubs. The clubs should also ensure members and guests park their vehicles outside the Sarobar premises.
 
 
