Mumbai: In just about a month in 2017, six Indian companies together raised over $3.3 billion from international markets through bond offerings. This is more than 40% of the total funds mobilised by Indian companies in the whole of 2016. It is also the best mobilisation through foreign   by Indian companies in the month of January in more than 10 years, data sourced from   showed.

 A combination of factors like a relatively better growth outlook for the Indian economy, not enough supply of debt papers from top Indian companies, lower fund allocation to the Indian market by foreign funds and uncertainties about interest rate in the US have led to this strong demand for Indian bonds abroad, investment bankers and bond issuers said.
 
 “In the past 18 months, India has been in a sweet spot in the emerging market space ... a trend seen across both equity and debt markets,” Neville Fernandes, head of debt  ,   said. “In the emerging market portfolios of many investors, India’s share is lower on a relative basis currently and investors want more of India. In the past, Indian companies haven’t issued papers in significant size, leading to a lack of supply. There is genuine demand that still remains, which has not been met,” he said. 
 
 Adding to all these is the fact that companies issuing bonds are mostly top notch and from varied industries. Among the six issuers this year, Vedanta Plc, the London-listed holding company with major operations in the Indian metals and energy space, raised $1 billion last month, while PSU-major   raised $600 million and PSU power major   raised equivalent of $537 million in euro bonds.
 
 Bond issuers, who interacted with investors across various countries in the run-up to their debt offerings this year, also feel that India’s image among those investors is leading to this surge in appetite for Indian debt shown by foreign fund managers. According to a spokesperson for Vedanta, a stable policy environment and strong indications from the government that the country is open for business is attracting foreign investors to invest in India. “These investors feel that, given the demographic dividend that India offers over the next few decades, it’s a great opportunity to invest here,” the Vedanta official said.
 
 Higher prices of these bonds after listing is also attracting investors to buy Indian bonds in foreign markets. “This is a good thing as this means that investors are making money and issuers have left something on the table and they can come back for more,” Fernandes said.
 
 
