MADURAI: For a busy railway station buzzing with activity everyday,   wore a gloomy look on Friday with worried passengers scattered here and there. The station has become totally isolated from the railway network as jallikattu protesters held siege from both entries for the second consecutive day. Due to this, no train could be operated through Madurai.

 The rail roko began on Thursday afternoon after a group of protesters managed to stop the Coimbatore – Nagercoil passenger on top of the Vaigai river bridge near Sellur, on the northern side of the station. Whether it was well-conceived or coincidental, the spot where the train was detained turned out to be a strategic advantage for the protesters as the train stood in between the bridge and use of any force by police will prove dangerous in the middle. The protesters stayed on the spot the entire night and continued their siege. At the same time, another group picketed the Tiruchendur – Pollachi passenger at the entry of the southern part of the station on Thursday evening and the siege continued to Friday. Thus, the junction has been cut off from both sides. 
 
 On Thursday, Madurai railway division managed to operate most of the Chennai-bound trains by diverting them via Virudhunagar – Aruppukottai – Manamadurai. On Friday, the siege was held in various places including Karaikudi, crippling the division from operating any trains on alternate routes. As a result, all express trains bound to Chennai and Bengaluru from southern districts were cancelled. 
 
 Later in the evening, the alternate route was relieved by protesters and officials from the division said they will be able to divert some trains on Saturday if there are no protests.
 
 Officials said that passengers will receive full refund of the tickets. While most passengers realizing the situation by Thursday night cancelled their tickets and found alternate modes of transport, some stayed back in the station itself hoping that train services will resume. 
 
 However, adding to their woes, most of the shops remained shut inside the premises as well as outside.
 
 For their part, protesters refused to withdraw their siege at Madurai Junction. They said they will not backtrack on their protest till jallikattu actually happens in the state. They raised slogans against the central and state governments criticising chief minister and Prime Minister and demanded to ban PETA ( ). They also refused to allow any politicians from taking part in the protest. 
 
 Meanwhile, DMK functionaries held a protest outside the station as announced by the party high command. Led by district secretaries, V Velusamy and Thalapathi the cadre gathered in front of the junction and raised slogans demanding jallikattu and banning of PETA. 
 
 Change in pattern of train services on Jan 21 
 
 Trains fully cancelled: 
 
 Train no, 16612 Coimbatore – Tuticorin Link Express
 
 Trains partially cancelled:
 
 Train no. 12635 Chennai Egmore – Madurai Vaigai Express which left on January 20 is partially cancelled between Dindigul and Madurai
 
 Train no. 16724 Thiruvananthapuram –   scheduled to leave on January 20 is partially cancelled between Nagercoil and Chennai Egmore
 
 Trains diverted:
 
 Train no. 12668 Nagercoil –   which left on January 20 was diverted via Virudhunagar, Manamadurai, Karaikudi and Trichy
 
 Train No. 06061 Chengalpattu – Tirunelveli special fare special which left on January 20 was diverted via Trichy, Karaikkudi, Manamadurai and Virudhunagar
 
 Vox Populi 
 
 Passengers
 
 Atul Nath, 
 
 Farmer, Lucknow, UP
 
 I came to Madurai for an eye surgery. Rail roko has affected many people from other states like me. We don't know when the train services will resume. Instead of blocking trains, the protests could be even more powerful if offices of chief minister and assembly are held to siege by the protesters 
 
 N Panchatcharam,
 
 Retired railway staff from Villupuram
 
 We came to attend a wedding near Madurai and have been stranded in the junction since Thursday. Protesting for jallikattu is good but there are more pressing concerns like water, farmers' suicide. 
 
 Protesters
 
 A Kaliswaran 
 
 Young businessman
 
 When central government came out with orders after orders like demonetization, we quietly obliged. Our cultural identity is at stake but central government is not ready even to consider our genuine struggle to protect our culture with an ordinance. No matter what, we will continue the rail roko 
 
 A Kausalya
 
 MBA student
 
 As a student of MBA, I feel that corporates are important but I can't give up my culture and identity for a corporate cause of eliminating native breed. I support jallikattu and we will continue our struggle 
 
 K Jenny 
 
 Law College student
 
 Our protest is not towards any seditionary thoughts. We are all Indians and we feel it. But our culture is under threat so are cultures of many states in this country at present. We will not give up our struggle for jallikattu or backtrack on this rail roko
 
