Jaipur: The Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) on Monday woke up from its deep slumber a day after 50-year old woman lost her life when the motorbike she was riding on hit a   near Panipech area and fell.

 City roads are filled with deep potholes and have claimed lives of two innocent people in the city. However, civic bodies officials have preferred to sit in offices till date.
 
 After Sunday’s incident, JMC CEO Ravi Jain inspected various areas and directed the officials to repair the potholes on the spot, which were lying neglected after the monsoon season. In a face-saving exercise, the CEO also suspended, Khemraj Meena, junior engineer of Vidhyadhar (VD) zone holding him accountable for poor condition of roads in the area where the accident took place. A senior engineer at JMC, however, said, “The suspension was done after receiving several complaints of irregularities.”
 
 Meanwhile, many residents and shopkeepers along with former Jaipur MLA and city Congress president Pratap Singh Khachariyawas voluntarily came forward to take up the work of filling potholes in Panipech area on Monday.
 
 Khachariyawas alleged, “The task of filling potholes in a particular area was completed within one hour by commoners, which the state government failed to perform in past three years. The life of the innocent woman could have been saved if JMC had fulfilled its duty properly. In the city potholes claimed more than 500 lives and our party had taken out rallies several times to highlight the issue. But the government did not pay attention to our demands.”
 
 After the recent spell of heavy rain this monsoon season, there is increased risk of accidents in the city as the roads are in a bad shape, dotted with potholes. The bitter irony of this needless death was that many motorists, who also had had similar incidents at this very spot, had repeatedly alerted the authorities about the pothole.
 
 Vishal Singh, who travels from Chandpole to Jhotwara daily, says, “Even the major roads are in a poor condition. The road is uprooted since long, however , administration does repair work at a casual pace. The officials in charge should be held accountable for innocent people’s deaths.”
 
 
