Surat: Member of passenger service committee (PSC), ministry of railways, Rakesh Shah has opposed the decision taken by the Western Railway (WR) to increase the rate of platform ticket at Surat railway station starting from April 1.  As per the directive issued by the divisional railway manager (DRM) of WR, the rate of platform ticket at Surat railway station will be increased from Rs 10 per person to Rs 20. The decision has been taken to de-congest the railway platforms from the people, who usually come to either drop or pick up the passengers.  In his letter to the DRM, Shah pointed out that the increase in railway ticket is not the solution to de-congest the railway platforms from the unwanted people. However, the WR must seriously think of running few trains including Tapti Ganga Express, Bhagalpur Express, Surat-Puri Express and all trains going towards Tapti line from Udhna stations, instead of Surat. Also, the WR should consider giving stoppage to Ahmedabad-Puri Express at Udhna.  Shah stated that the Diamond City has the highest migrant population and that the city also gets floating population due to the presence of the country’s largest textile industry. The migrant population is concentrated in the areas like Limbayat, Udhana, Bhestan, Pandesara, Dindoli, etc., which are close to the Udhna railway station.  In the absence of stoppage of important trains towards Bihar and other locations at Udhna railway station, the migrants have to visit the Surat railway station. If one passenger is travelling to Bihar, around four to five people arrive at the station to drop him. Same is the case when the migrants arrive from their hometowns.  “Surat is the only station in the WR where the platform ticket fares have been hiked, only to de-congest the platforms. Even the short distance destinations like Panoli and Navsari have the railway ticket of only Rs 10. So, this is injustice to the people of Diamond City as they will have to cough up more for platform ticket,” said Shah.  Shah added, “I have urged the WR authorities to de-congest the railway platforms from unauthorized vendors who are the real menace.”