BHOPAL: Chief minister   on Monday said that he would shut down the   software and shift all work related to land records to the old government portal maintained by national informatics centre (NIC).

 The WEBGIS software — managed by a private software company for digitalisation of land records — is mired in controversy with several collectors reportedly writing to the government that they prefer to shift to the old government site because they fear the new one has been hacked. The   is already investigating allegations that land records were tampered with and racketeers took bank loans worth hundreds of crores on fake documents.
 
 On Monday, while addressing a gathering of patwaris and other revenue officials at Samanway Bhawan, Chauhan said that he will take his final decision on closure of WEBGIS after meeting with top officials. The patwaris cheered the announcement, saying they too had been protesting against it for a long time. Revenue minister   had earlier given a three-month ultimatum to the software company to upgrade security of its portal after racketeers allegedly converted government land into private by hacking the security code of the land record management software. Gwalior, Morena, Narsinghpur and Indore are among the districts where tampering has been reported. 
 
 The CM was there to release a mobile app developed for collecting information related to crop girdawari (agriculture statistics). This year onwards, information related to crop girdawari will be collected through the app in the interest of farmers, Chouhan announced, adding that it will help patwaris get information about khasras of all the land owners of the village on their fingertips. Calling the app a revolutionary step of the revenue department, the CM said it will bring about freedom from the traditional ‘basta’. He wants NIC to be used for the app operation.
 
 Chouhan said that 10,000 patwaris, 550 tehsildars and 940 naib tehsildars will be recruited soon to meet the shortage of revenue staff. Orders have been issued to complete the recruitment process quickly. He instructed the revenue department head to “think in terms of departmental promotions of patwaris”, stressing the need to work on a war footing to make revenue administration effective.
 
 The CM announced to allocate funds for ‘tabs’ for patwaris so that they can use the latest technology. Promising that a “clean record” of figures will be available at the time of sowing, Chouhan said that all possible steps are being taken to ensure that farmers get a fair price for their produce. An innovative experiment of making payment on ideal rate based on the difference of support price and market price to farmers will be made.
 
