NEW DELHI: Underdogs. Worst ever Australian team to tour India. India will win 4-0. If Australia play well, India will win 3-0. These are some of the 'prophecies' made when the Australian team landed on Indian shores. And now how the tables have turned with Australia inflicting a massive 333-run defeat on India inside three days to bring the great Indian victory-run to a rude jolt.

 A bolt from the blue?
  
 From Nagpur in 2004 to Pune in 2017, it took Australia almost 13 years to register their first Test win in India. And in both the victories, they made much better use of the given conditions. While the 342-run victory in Nagpur came on a green pitch and was built on the pace arsenal of Glenn McGrath, Jason Gillespie and Michael Kasprowicz inside four days, the drubbing in Pune has again exposed 
  that has resulted in one of their worst defeats at home.
  
 There was a time when Indian batsmen were considered superb players of spin but England's Monty Panesar and Graeme Swann first brought the downfall in 2012, thus paving the way for Alastair Cook's team to register a remarkable Test series triumph. And though Panesar's England career is as good as over, the Aussies utilised his services to bring the downfall of the current Indian batsmen.
  
 The ability to play spin comes not just from being able to play for the turn but also from being able to judge if the ball is going to turn at all or not. From most of the wickets that   got in Pune, the lack of turn resulted in Indian batsmen's dismissals more than the actual turn.  's dismissal in the second innings stands out where he shouldered arms to a delivery that went on straight to hit the middle of off stump. On the other hand, Nathan Lyon got the ball to turn, sometimes just a bit too much, and finished with five wickets in the match, compared to O'Keefe's six-wicket hauls in both the innings.
  
 Indian spinners   and   also got the ball to turn just a bit too much and were not as successful as their Australian counterparts. It is clear from the result of the   that the Australians read the pitch better than the Indians and their batsmen applied themselves better than the hosts as India took their match aggregate score to a new low to 212 runs, in which India's last seven wickets falling for just 11 runs in their first innings on day two was glaring.
  
 One of the best things about cricket is that the past is the past. It hardly matters. Australia took their recent failures on the sub-continent in their stride and prepared exceedingly well to draw first blood in the series even though they were tagged underdogs by one and all. But then, this is the difference between Australia and other teams; they never under-estimate themselves and build on the self-belief which was apparent enough and on display in Pune as they outplayed India in every department of the game. 
  
 Australian captain Smith was the other Steve who was the wrecker-in-chief for India by notching up a magnificent hundred in the second innings. Leading from the front, Smith hit his fifth consecutive Test hundred against India which is his second in the sub-continent. Apart from that, the way Smith rotated his bowlers and changing O'Keefe's bowling ends in the first innings and his smartness as to when to go for the DRS also stood out.
  
 The idea of playing on a turning track having backfired and the Indian juggernaut of 19 Test wins halted inside three days, Kohli & Co. have ample time to ponder at this hammering and in coach   they have the best man for instilling self-belief and bounce back in the series. Good thing that the wake-up call came in the first Test with three more to go.
 
 As for that underdog tag … well, that can be thrown in the trash can. Australia are the ones who will walk out with swagger in Bangalore.
 
