AHMEDABAD: A   carrying the  , released by a pharmaceutical major, has irked some trade bodies and saffron outfits. The   has pushed for banning the ad which read, “Aa Navratri e ramo, parantu prem thi” (This Navratri go play, but with love). Hoardings featuring the ad were later taken down. Condom and contraceptive sales rise around Navratri, according to the estimates of the Gujarat State Federation of Chemists and Druggists Association (GSFCDA). This year too, sales are up by some 35%.

 “During Navratri, sales of contraceptives and condoms skyrocket and this year — even before the festival — sales have been good,” said Jashvant Patel, the chairman of the GSFCDA. “A number of paan shops, which are often open well into the night, have started stocking up on condoms of late.” Conservative estimates by industry players indicate that the monthly turnover of condoms and contraceptives industry is upwards of Rs 2 crore, which gets a 30-35% boost during Navratri. This makes condom manufacturers among the biggest gainers in the season. Leveraging the demand, many of them ramp up branding efforts. 
 
  
  
 
 
  The Gujarat National Medico Organisation (GNMO), a doctors’ body affiliated with the RSS, has asked 7,000 of its members across the state to avoid prescribing any drugs manufactured by the pharma major in question. Dr Prakash Kurmi, the president of GNMO, said, “The company used content that affects the sentiments of Hindus. On social media, we have started a campaign against the company to force it to withdraw the ad and to issue an apology.” As for the company, it has said in a statement: “The Navratra hoarding campaign was not meant to hurt anyone’s sentiments and was immediately withdrawn. We deeply regret any such incident.”
 
  Another RSS-affiliated doctors’ body has sought the intervention of the Indian Medical Council. Dr Pravin Bhavsar, the president of Arogya Bharati, said: “We condemn the company’s move and seek IMC and government intervention to take legal action against the company.” Some marketing experts said that even the controversy surrounding the ad has worked in favour of the company. “The brand only associated the topicality of the event and the sales trend and thus pitched its message,” said Santosh Zokarkar, a branding consultant. “Like it or not, the controversy has worked for the brand.” Piyush Sinha, a professor at the IIM, disagreed. “Sensitive topics associated with a religious event are bound to hurt sentiments,” he said. 
 
