Irrfan Khan, who had been filming his next   film, Marc Turtletaub’s ' ', along with Kelly Macdonald and David Denman in New York for the last month, is expected to arrive in London on Thursday for a gala organised by the British Academy of Film and Television Arts ( ), which will be hosted by Haya Asif, the granddaughter of 'Mughal-e-Azam' director K Asif.

  
  
  While actress  , her poet-lyricist husband   and his filmmaker-actor son Farhan Akhtar will share the stage for a special performance, Irrfan is set to deliver a unique spin on K Asif’s words with a live poetry recital and on-screen discussion in the segment ‘Indian Cinema: Yesterday and Today’.
 
 The actor is in a happy space, admitting that the Big Apple is one of his favourite cities as it offers something different to everyone. "I don’t think I can ever get bored or have enough of New York. I keep coming back to it and every time I find something new to explore. I took long walks in the parks, had great conversations with my crew and channelled by inner hipster walking the streets and sipping coffee. I managed to do some writing and some relaxing, discovering life as an actor on-the-go," he said.
 
 Irrfan also recalls an evening outside Lincoln Theatre, when he was reminded of his own childhood as he watched a mother play with her triplets. He had just caught a show of Oslo, the dark, funny, new-age theatrical work following a group of Israeli, Palestinian, Norwegian and American men and women struggling to overcome their fear, mistrust and hatred of each other. Earlier that week, he had gone for a yacht party along the Hudson river and sailed around the Statue of Liberty.
 
 New York is a stark contrast to Jaisalmer, where he reunited with Anup Singh, the director of the critically acclaimed 'Qissa', for an unconventional love story, 'The Song Of Scorpions'. The upcoming film teams the actor, who hails from Tonk, near Jaipur in Rajasthan, with Iranian actress Golshifteh Farahani and sees him playing a camel trader who falls in love with a local woman. 
 
 Such a relationship is a taboo in the deserts and that is what convinced Irrfan to do the film. "I get bored if I repeat myself, so I try to find something new to keep the journey exciting. Anup is an extremely talented director and a greater visual artist. He has crafted a heart-warming tale of love interspersed with some beautiful music which I was immediately drawn to it," he reasons.
 
 The National Award-winning actor has filmed several promotional videos to improve tourism and development in his native state and says that he’s definitely keen to promote it as it mesmerises him even today. "Rajasthan intrigues and fascinates everyone and Anup’s capture only escalates the feeling further. The Song of Scorpions should attract everyone to Rajasthan," he asserts.
 
 Pointing out that both Jaisalmer and New York are high on diverse energies, he avers, "Rajasthan kept reminding me to be calm and enjoy the serenity while NYC absorbs me in with its lively vibe, making me want to do more. Both the places are amazing in their own way and serve a purpose in my journey."
 
 Quiz him on his latest Hollywood film and he said, "The unique female-oriented script of Puzzle drew me to it. I was waiting for a Hollywood subject like this. It has come to me after a long time. It offers new challenges to me as an actor."
 
  Puzzle is an adaptation of the 2010 Argentine film 'Rompecabezas', which was nominated for the Golden Bear at the Berlin International Film Festival. It follows a 40-something woman who has a gift for assembling puzzles.
 
 The Padma Shri awardee is encouraged by the success of his last release, Saket Chaudhary’s 'Hindi Medium', which made a statement that quality education should not be limited to the privileged class.
 
  "  is finally ready for films that convey a message while raking in the moolah. It feels great and rewarding to have cracked the whip right," he exults, pointing out that they knew the film was special even though it had no formula or agenda. 
 
 "But to receive such an overwhelming response not only made us happy but motivates us by reinforcing that great stories will succeed no matter what."
 
  
  
  
  
 
