SHIMLA:The   government has again demanded from the   that it provides 7.19 per cent power in all the Bhakra Beas Management Board (BBMB) projects as per the ratio of the population. 

 The state has also asked for calculation of arrear claims against Punjab and Haryana as per inter-state energy settlement rate. The issue was raised by health and revenue minister Kaul Singh Thakur, in the Northern Zonal Council (NZC) meeting in Chandigarh on Friday. He said the state had been repeatedly requesting for 7.19 per cent power in all BBMB projects, but so far it had been deprived of its legitimate share.
 
 According to him, in pursuance of the Supreme Court judgement, the calculation of arrears claims against Punjab and Haryana calculated at the National Fertilizers Limited rates, is unfair and should be charged at inter-state energy settlement rate, which was at Badarpur Thermal  .
 
 He requested the union home minister,   who is also the chairman of the Zonal Council to convene a meeting with the union minister of power and chief ministers of the concerned states so that Himachal Pradesh got its legitimate share as per the apex court ruling. 
 
 Thakur also requested the union government to provide funds for the construction of a hydro power plant at Renukaji Dam on 90:10 centre-state sharing basis as this project was of national importance and the state was making immense sacrifice by way of displacement of large population.
 
 He also requested for the handover of work of 25 MW Power Project at Khyuri (Baggi) village in Mandi district to Himachal Pradesh and relax the condition of taking no objection certificate for utilising water for irrigation and drinking purposes from the rivers of the state. The minister suggested keeping in view the predominantly forest land of Himachal Pradesh, the powers of diversion of forest land for development activities should be enhanced upto five hectares so that developmental works in did not suffer for want of forest clearances.
 
 Thakur also asked for a joint strategy by the neighbouring states to tackle the menace of drugs and alcohol. He said no state was able to address this   and there was dire need for collaborative and collective approach. 
 
