NAGPUR: Refusing any leniency to lawyer Satish Uke, the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court on Wednesday, directed him to shell out Rs4.12 lakh and deposit it with the registry. As he again skipped the hearing, the court sternly asked his counsel RR Nair, to complete formalities within a week.

 However, Uke who was found guilty of contempt of court, was granted respite by keeping his 2-month jail term in abeyance for a week.
 
 The specially constituted division bench comprising justice   and justice Zaka Haq, told Uke’s counsel that if he deposits Rs4.12 lakh before deadline, his punishment would be suspended for four weeks. However, if he failed to comply, the court’s February 28 order, awarding him to jail term, would be implemented.
 
 The judges lashed out at Uke’s counsel for failure to assist the court and to take proper instructions from his client regarding the Rs2,000 to be deposited with the registry towards fine for committing contempt. The court slapped a cost of Rs10,000 on him which would be deposited with the  , here for Nair’s inability to assist the court.
 
 “On a query, the contemnor’s counsel submitted that he isn’t aware, whether the fine is deposited by his client. An impression is created that either the contemnor or his counsel is trying to take court for a ride. Such attitude can’t be permitted. Uke should deposit the amount of fine within as per last Tuesday’s orders, within a week.”
 
 Out of the total Rs4.12 lakh, Uke was asked to furnish surety of Rs2 lakh and another surety in same amount from the third person, both through cheques, to be deposited with the court registry within a week.
 
 Earlier, Uke’s counsel filed an application praying for suspension of February 27 and 28 orders and his 2-month jail term. He also filed an affidavit informing that he filed a writ petition (WP No 597/2017) challenging validity of ‘Contempt’s of Court’s Act, 1971’ in the principal seat in Mumbai, which would be taken up for hearing soon. Therefore, the court should keep the orders in abeyance so that he could appear during hearings.
 
 The judges then questioned Nair on which provision the application was moved and flayed him when he expressed inability to do so. “Nair requested for adjournment on the ground that he is not competent to argue the matter and it will be argued by some other lawyer. We’re not inclined to adjourn the matter for this reason. Though he hasn’t argued and assisted, still, in the interests of justice, we feel it appropriate that the effect, operation and execution of the judgment (of February 28) is required to be kept in abeyance. However, looking to the conduct of contemnor, we feel it necessary to impose certain conditions,” the judges noted.
 
 Earlier, assistant public prosecutor   expressed concern about preservation of the memory chips in which the proceedings of hearings are recorded. However, the judges made it clear that it should be the concern of contemnor, instead of APP. “The order directing video recording of the proceedings was passed on Uke’s application. The concern expressed by the APP, in fact, should be the concern of the contemnor. If he moves an application, we will examine it, otherwise we feel that orders on this point need not be passed on the APP’s request,” the judges observed.
 
 Second contempt plea adjourned by a week
 
 The court, on Wednesday, adjourned hearing of a second suo motu contempt against Uke. A division bench comprising justice   and justice   deferred the hearing after assistant government pleader informed that the contempt notice wasn’t served to Uke till date. One week was granted to complete the formalities.
 
 Uke achieved a dubious distinction of becoming first lawyer in the city’s history to be convicted for the contempt of the court.
 
 Fed up with his perennial habit of making reckless allegations against sitting judges and lawyers and his delaying tactics, the judges slapped another suo motu contempt on Uke on February 22, asking him to deposit another Rs2 lakh towards as cash security with the registry. Neither, Uke attended the Wednesday’s hearing, nor deposited Rs2 lakh with the registry.
 
