Tuck temptation in the world’s densest city. In Macao, egg tarts and  , dancing fountains and neon lights can lure even Miss Prim and Holy Joe. It houses the world’s biggest money joint and serves Asia’s best egg tarts.   always glitters and rarely sleeps. This is the Macao that most visitors list on their itinerary. It is time to dispel the cliches and go on a museum hunt in the island. 

 
 
 
  It is the world’s first 3D Museum with 4D paintings where Michael Jackson leaps in air and a dinosaur growls and opens its gigantic jaw. Pandas loll with bamboo leaves and snowflakes rain from heaven. All this is not framed art but an 3D interactive experience where everything that is painted on the walls looks real. Look for the photography points in seven theme zones. The points suggest the best photo-op angles. The museum is a pilgrimage for Michael Jackson fans who can gape at his costumes. 
 
  
 
 
  If the need for speed drives you, step into Grand Prix Museum. In the Grand Prix Museum, 63 years of Macao Guia Circuit comes alive with cars and bikes stashed behind red ropes. The walls are cluttered with historical photographs of the race. There’s a race simulator too. 
 
 
 
  Find Bacchus waiting in a rustic Portuguese wine cellar where wine and wine bottles from various regions are stacked. Mannequins in traditional costumes stand by the wine bottles and a large communal table in the centre is topped with an elegant candelabrum. Macao is not a wine-producing island but 500 years of Portuguese rule is told through the history of wine production, techniques and technology, culture and even wine-related festivals and customs. Wine tasting is a must-do here. 
 
  
 
 
  Located in Mount Fortress built by the Jesuits in the 17th century near the ruins of St Paul’s, the Macao Museum chronicles the history and culture of Macao where Chinese and European influences created a unique culture. Spread over three floors, it recreates traditional Portuguese and Chinese homes complete with balcony and flowers. There are dioramas of an old firecracker factory, vegetable and fish sellers; even an old corner with a bench where people spent their evenings. 
 
 
 
 
  Considered one of the cultural relics of the island, this Museum in Macao’s Taipa Island consists of five green homes that are perfect examples of Macanese architecture. Built in 1921 as residence of powerful civil servants, the houses were remodelled and turned into a museum in the late 1990s. Sitting by a lake and overlooking the Cotai Strip, these houses depict the splendour of the colonial era.
 
 
