AHMEDABAD: Professor Bombaywala reveals rare manuscripts. He is the quintessential wordsmith and a poignant storyteller any city will yearn to have. Professor Mohidduin Bombaywala, of the Pir Mohammed Shah Library at  , has been the custodian for decades of a treasure trove of Ahmedabad's history -its intangible heritage.

 Today, he reveals his collection of 3,990 handwritten manuscripts in Persian -aged back to anywhere between 350 to 370 years -breathtaking books written in   displaying exceptional calligraphy .
 
 These books reveal the real story of Ahmedabad -why for over 600 years, this bustling city has remained a living example of cultural harmony and not just architectural syncretism.
 
 Bombaywala also unveils a collection of some of the rarest Hindu Sanskrit scriptures and portions of Hindu epics, like the Gita, translated into Persian by Nagar Brahmins of Vadnagar and Nandol village of Dehgam almost 350 years ago, and even a Quran copied by the hand of Mughal emperor, Aurangzeb. Interestingly, not much of this library has been mentioned in Ahmedabad's dossier to Unesco. “In these books is explained the Gujarati way of life, how literature flourished, food habits, people who wore almost the same set of clothes and lived in similar wooden houses,“ says Bombaywala.
 
 A while later Bombaywala reveals works by Pandit Jivandas, a well known Sanskrit scholar of Vadnagar, who had translated portions of the Gita into Persian almost 320 years ago. These pages are conserved in the library that has also two copies of 'Karantilaka' in Persian. In the second room of this library is also preserved the original Amdavadi clothes dating back to almost 300 years and the characteristic Amdavadi topi.
 
 Bombaywala explains how   University historian Chotubhai Nayak's research on the Gujarat sultanate was important. “Did you know that   Shah was the great grandson of a Tankh Rajput, Saharan, of  ? It is mentioned here in Mirat-e-Sikandri on page 5,“ says Bombaywala with a smile.
 
