KOHIMA: Political tussle in the ruling Naga People's Front (NPF) in Nagaland has surfaced again to overthrow chief minister   even before the latter could enter the house through a bypoll scheduled on July 29. 

 On Friday night, majority of NPF legislators owing allegiance to former chief minister   headed to   in neighbouring Assam and are currently camping at Borgos resort. Sources said over 30 NPF legislators, which included ministers and parliamentary secretaries, have put up at the resort. 
 
 At present, NPF has 47 legislators in the house whose current strength is 59. BJP has 4 legislators. Last month, the CM appointed his son, Khriehu, as his adviser with cabinet status which could be one of the reasons for the rebellion.
 
 On Saturday, Liezietsu convened a meeting of legislators and party executives at his official residence. Highly placed sources said the CM told them that the government was safe. Out of the eight Independent legislators, most of them pledged support to Zeliang. 
 
 It may be mentioned here that dissidence took place during the first week of May in 2014 when then chief minister Neiphiu Rio, who had won the Lok Sabha election from the state, was to hand over the baton. Rio had planned to hand over charge to seniormost elected regional leader Noke but majority of MLAs, including the party president, favoured Zeliang. The rivalry led to the first camping of legislators in Kaziranga when majority of MLAs went there to escape any attempt of poaching.
 
 Zeliang faced another revolt in January, 2015 when 22 out of 38 MLAs demanded a change in leadership and camped at Niathu Resort in Dimpaur. Those with Zeliang and party president Liezietsu remained within the confines of Hotel de Oriental Grand, Kohima.
 
 Again in 2016, another crisis erupted over the issue of holding elections to the urban local bodies (ULBs). The crisis worsened and there was a mass protest during January-February, 2017. Ultimately, Zeliang had to step down. It was expected that former CM and Lok Sabha MP Neiphiu Rio would take over from Zeliang. But subsequent events in Kaziranga proved otherwise as Liezietsu became the alternative and was sworn in as the chiewf minister on February 22.
 
 According to sources in NPF, the understanding was that Liezietsu would hold the reins for two to three months after which Zeliang would reclaim the CM's chair. However, when byelection was proposed and the Northern Angami-I constituency was vacated by sitting MLA Khriehu for his father Liezietsu, the dynamics within the NPF changed. 
 
 So far, no candidate has filed nomination for the bypolls to Northern Angami-I constituency. 
 
 
