NEW DELHI: Had it won more seats in Punjab, the going would have been comparatively easy for   in the corporation elections. It may not have guaranteed more seats but the party cadre would have been upbeat. However, AAP believes that the election will be fought on the “20 years of misrule by   and Congress” and it has nothing to be worried about.

 The party has already announced 240-odd candidates out of a total of 272 and has started campaigning in all these wards. Volunteers and candidates are going door to door, taking across a message from CM   to “sweep Delhi clean” by voting out BJP. 
 
 The government has also embarked on a mission to talk about the work done by it in the past two years, starting with a video message from Kejriwal to advertisements on radio, billboards and in newspapers.
 
 Party’s Delhi convener Dilip Pandey, who wrote to Kejriwal on Tuesday asking for use of ballot papers instead of   in the upcoming civic elections, said that in the past 20 years “Congress and BJP have turned Delhi into a dustbin and the corporation into a den of corruption”. 
 
 “AAP is confident that people will reject both parties like it did in the assembly elections. As far as the elections are concerned, I wrote to the CM asking for paper trail due to the news coming in from places like Mumbai, and states like Uttarakhand, Punjab and UP, where suspicion has been raised over use of EVMs. To those who claim that we should have insisted on a paper trail even when we won 67 seats, it is important to remind them that AAP was an outsider when it won elections and hardly in a position to rig EVMs,” Pandey said.
 
 Senior party members claim that BJP is nervous about its chances in the elections, which is why it has taken the “knee-jerk reaction” of announcing that it will not repeat any sitting councillor for this election. “Kejriwal raised the matter of personal corruption of councillors in his video message and that seems to be reconfirmed by the party’s announcement on Tuesday. This is an admission by the party that their councillors have made a mess of the corporations and are a liability for this election,” said a senior member.
 
 However, the party will have to contend with not only BJP but also   and Swaraj India attacking it from all corners to prove that the government has failed Delhi. Party functionaries brush aside the issue, saying that any incumbent government faces such criticism but it remains to be seen whether people buy this argument.
 
 
