KOCHI: The disparities in age criteria in junior cricket have hit a Kerala cricketer again. After Daryl S Ferrario was excluded from the India U-19 squad for the   in December 2016, another promising player from Kerala   has been removed from the U-19 national side before a series.

 Rohan had been included in the original India U-19 squad set to play the five-match one-day series against England U-19 beginning Monday. But the   has now decided to let only those players who would be eligible to play the 2018 U-19 World Cup take part in the one-day series. Rohan, who was born on May 10, 1998, was the oldest among the 18 members picked on January 20. Since he would be over 19 by the time the U-19 World Cup begins in New Zealand in January 2018, he was released from the squad on Sunday.
 
 "We've got the communication from the BCCI that Rohan Kunnummal has been released from the India U-19 squad for the one-dayers against England as he would be above the permissible age for the U-19 World Cup in 2018," said Jayesh George, Kerala Cricket Association secretary.
 
 Rohan, in fact, played in the warm-up match for India U-19 Colts against England U-19 at the Wankhede Stadium in Mumbai on Saturday and scored a crucial 40 in the Indian colts' three-wicket win.
 
 This is the second time that a Kerala player has lost the chance to play for India U-19 this season. Earlier, allrounder Daryl S Ferrario could not play the U-19 Asia Cup after having been selected into the original squad, which was picked based on the BCCI norms, according to which anyone who is under 19 can play U-19 tournaments. However, the Asian Cricket Council norms mandated that only those who qualify for the next U-19 World Cup could play the Asia Cup. This meant Daryl and six other players were removed from the original squad and replaced with younger players.
 
 However, there's still hope for the 18-year-old Rohan to don the India U-19 jersey as there are indications that he might be included in the squad for the four-day matches against England U-19.
 
 
