NEW DELHI: The 
  underlines the saffron party’s continued success in ensuring that a lack of support among Muslim voters does not hurt its electoral prospects and ability to attract allies.

 Bihar CM Nitish Kumar’s decision to 
  , which was formed on the basis of a rallying call to oppose “communal” forces, is a significant indicator of the strategy running its course.
 
 While Nitish has been a   ally before, and the combination in the 2010 assembly elections reduced   to 22 seats, the 2015 experiment was seen as a fresh bid to stall BJP’s development and Hindutva mix that threatened to cut across caste.
 
 The caste arithmetic did defeat BJP, but that the ‘mahagathbandhan’ fell apart in 20 months is testimony to Nitish’s discomfiture with graft controversies surrounding Lalu and his clan and also BJP’s electoral success in states like   in 2016 and UP in 2017 where the Muslim vote failed to dent the party.
 
 Potential benefits of bringing together upper castes, a big section of OBCs and a slice of the Dalit vote is tempting and seems a re-engineered version of Congress’s grand caste umbrella of the past minus Muslims and with a crucial difference that backward leaders have gained an increased salience.
 
 The caste coalition has added aspects such as welfarism, economic reforms, anti-corruption measures and heavy doses of nationalism that provide saffron politics with a programme and an ideological sheen and makes BJP under PM Modi difficult for the opposition to size up and counter.
 
 BJP’s decision not to nominate a single Muslim in the UP election was intended as a deliberate riposte to BSP’s decision to field nearly a 100 candidates from the community in the Dalit outfit’s effort to outdo  . The resultant polarisation went BJP’s way as the party’s gamble paid off. 
 
 In Assam, BJP was helped by Congress’s reluctance to act against illegal migrants and respond to rising anxieties of majority communities over encroachment of land and the influence of fundamentalist leaders.
 
 The perceived softness towards minority extremism accelerated the drift of voters towards BJP even as a three-term incumbency dragged down the   government. 
 
  bet an alliance with Muslim-centric All India United Democratic Front of Badruddin Ajmal won’t be beneficial as it would prompt its own minority leaders to turn rebel. 
 
 In the end, the division of votes helped BJP but the strong polarisation of votes in favour of the party prevailed. In the run-up to the 2019 LS polls, the decision of a tall OBC leader like   to patch up with Modi is a strong signal that the firm of Modi and   is a very viable option.
 
