Five things that surprisingly could be a   for men.
 
  
 
  Some   avoid communicating and expressing their feelings and thoughts. They expect men to read their minds and guess their thoughts, which is not always possible. And when they fail they receive the cold shoulder for not playing the guessing game right. Nothing is more annoying for men then a woman who will just not say what she wants but expect you to read the ‘signs’. Another thing that really gets to men is some women assuming that men know what they want them to do. Saying one thing and doing just the opposite just confuses things even more for men. So, play it straight and just speak up, it leaves no room for miscommunication or misunderstandings.
  
  
 
  Some women equate men with being dumb, everyone makes mistakes but there is no need to constantly rub it in. It only makes you a nag and can be annoying.
  
  
 
  Always remember that your guy has a mother and there is no need for you to step into her shoes. While it’s okay to comfort and be there for him, don’t treat him like a child and smother to such an extent that it starts bugging him.
  
  
 
  Men are not always comfortable talking about their problems, unlike some women who would go overboard sharing every minute detail with everyone in sight. Learn to exercise caution, and don’t overshare. Learn to keep things to yourself at times, especially something that's shared with you in private. It will build trust and also encourage the guy to open up more. Also, if you have just got to know the guy, there is no need to share every little detail with him. Learn to keep certain things to yourself and share only what is necessary.
  
  
 
  Learn to live in the moment, and while planning what to do on your birthday is okay, planning what you will do on your 50th anniversary while you are still   will only freak the guy out. Learn to take small steps and enjoy the moment rather that fastfoward with an over active imagination, leaving your partner confused and spooked.
  
  
  
