HYDERABAD: Sixty-year-old Rekha had not seen it coming. She had heard of depression and always associated it with people feeling gloomy, lethargic and morose. So she was shell-shocked when her 26-year-old son Rahul, who wore a cheerful smile all the time, attempted suicide by taking excess dose of sleeping pills. It was only later that doctors diagnosed her son with ‘smiling depression’ or ‘stoic depression’, which, alarmingly, is quite common but hidden in plain sight.

 At least 10 in 100 cases of depression are actually   and the numbers are growing fast, said clinical   Dr  . “They put up a brave front as they don’t want others to know about their problems. This can be dangerous because their relatives don’t notice anything amiss. In fact, many such patients are more prone to committing suicide than those suffering from the classic form of depression,” he said.
 
 Rahul had been grieving over a failed love affair and had not shared it with anyone. In other cases, a happy-go-lucky disposition ends up deceiving the patient too, and they do not realise their condition. Any small trigger unleashes a sudden, cascading effect that leaves friends and relatives confused.
 
 Worse, it is difficult to diagnose such patients, said psychologist Ramani. “A girl in her 20s came to me recently along with her friend. During a conversation, I noticed signs of depression. She was not able to do many things that a girl of her age does. She was under the impression that it was mere laziness. She was quite surprised when I said she was suffering from smiling depression,” she said.
 
 Psychologists generally use the  , which involves patients interpreting a set of  , to determine depression. “No one can hide depression in this test. Based on the scores of patients, we determine the acuteness of depression,” said Ramani.
 
 Doctors say smiling depression might be more dangerous than regular depression as in the latter case, patients usually do not have the energy to act on suicidal impulses. As those with smiling depression might even feel surges of energy, they can easily plan their suicide and not make anyone suspicious of their intentions.
 
