PUNE: The   (EOW) of the city crime branch on Friday arrested two persons for allegedly duping financial institutions of Rs4.5 crore by taking loans   as  .

 The incident had occurred in 2015.
 
 A team headed deputy commissioner of police (EOW) Deepak Sakore and inspector Sanjeev Patil arrested the duo identified as Yusuf Rajmohammed Shaikh (44) and Manoj Kailash Gaikwad (49), both residents of Satara Road.
 
 “Both were arrested in a   case registered against them at Koregaon Park police station,” Patil said.
 
 The real builder came to know of the cheating when received a letter from a bank thanking him for opening an account with it. He then lodged a complaint with the Koregaon Park police. During the course of investigations EOW officials realized that the suspects had obtained loans in the names of common citizens who wanted to buy homes.
 
 “The duo would visit a construction site in Narhe impersonating the builder. They even called people to see the sample flats at the site,” Patil said, adding that they claimed to be the owners of the property.
 
 “Many people were interested in buying the apartments. The two claimed to have good contacts with   and financial institutions and said they can help in easy processing of housing loans. Shaikh and Gaikwad, both property agents, then collected files and documents of the prospective buyers and prepared fake sale agreements,” Patil added.
 
 These documents were submitted to the bank, where the suspects had opened an account using the name and address of the actual builder. “The duo then obtained the loan amounts from three financial institutions, including two banks. They posed as the builder to withdraw the money and flee,” Patil added.
 
 Patil said the actual builder came to know about it only after he received a ‘thank you’ letter from one of the banks, but it was too late. 
 
 “Interestingly, the duo gave away a part of the money to some of the prospective home buyers stating that they cannot provide apartments to them, but deducted their commission from the loan,” he said.
 
 The banks had not received any equated monthly instalments (EMIs) from the persons who had taken loan as they did not have the possession of the flats. It later transpired that the sale agreements were fake and fabricated.
 
 
