THIRUVANANTHAPURAM:   has once again disrupted the distribution of salary and pension of employees in Kerala. The crisis is likely to worsen in the coming days as the state is gearing up to disburse welfare fund arrears of three months in view of Vishu and   celebrations. 

 Pensioners, who had come to collect their monthly pension, had to return empty-handed from many treasuries. According to treasury directorate, over 50% of treasuries in the state were hit by currency shortage. Acute shortage has almost paralysed the functioning of 79 treasures; 24 of which hadn't received any money. Also, 15 treasuries were denied money on Monday.
 
 There were 55 treasuries in the state which hadn't received at least 50% of the amount sought on Tuesday. Sasthamcotta and Anchal sub-treasuries that demanded Rs 1 crore each were given only Rs 5 lakh each. Sub-treasury at   sought Rs. 1.5 cr for the day but had to be satisfied with Rs 10 lakh. Kottayam medical college treasury was given Rs 1 lakh instead of the actual demand of Rs 7.5 lakh.   minister   termed the situation as grave and alleged that the Union government was being discriminatory. "RBI doesn't have enough currency. It has become a political tool. The money has been diverted to states where elections are being held," said Isaac. He also came down heavily on banks that are not supplying enough currency to treasuries and even warned of strong protest if RBI wouldn't solve the crisis immediately.
 
 Sources in the treasury department said the situation would worsen in the coming days as treasuries could make up the shortage with the reserve money on the first two days of the week. "If the banks won't distribute enough money tomorrow and the day after, thousands of pensioners will have to go back without pension," said an employee.
 
 The currency shortage, if it continues, will also sabotage the plan of the Pinarayi Vijayan government to clear welfare fund arrears for the festive season. The government is planning to distribute welfare pension through cooperative societies, but without enough currency the plan may go awry.
 
 The state cabinet, which is meeting on Wednesday, will discuss the issue and plan the future course of action. In December, last year and in January, the state had to face similar crisis on the first days of the month as   had hit the flow of currency
 
 
