KOLKATA: Esplanade,   and Charu Market are among the most perilous bus stops, a study conducted by the civil engineering department of IIT-Kharagpur has revealed. The study was done to develop a methodology for assessing the safety level of 45 bus stops between KC Das intersection at Esplanade and Tollygunge tram depot. The methodology included facility- and management-related deficiencies. 

 A study was undertaken by the research team of civil engineering department of IIT Kgp headed by Bhargav Maitra to evaluate the safety measures of bus stops on a busy   route in the city. 
 
 “If there is no crossing facility or proper bus stops and the commuters are forced to stand on the road, it is a design-related deficiency. But if a bus stop has adequate space to accommodate people and yet commuters choose to stand on the road, it is a management-related problem,” said Bhargav Maitra, who headed the research.
 
 The bus stops were scaled on a score of 10. Charu Market, Park Street and Esplanade scored 4.5, 4.7 and 4.9, respectively. With a score of 9.7, Hazra and Rashbehari crossings were among the safest, followed by Jeevan Deep (9.6).
 
 “For example, inadequate waiting area is an unsafe design related to the ‘capacity’ characteristic of the waiting area, which may result in unsafe act. Similarly, locating the bus stop immediately after a curve is an unsafe design related to the ‘location’ characteristic, which may, again, result in unsafe act,” explained Maitra.
 
 During the study, it was observed that lack of proper enforcement and maintenance, grouped under management deficiency, can also result in unsafe acts around the bus stop. “For instance, waterlogging in front of a bus stop may force commuters to move away from the bus stop and encroach upon the roadway. Similarly, on-street parking in front of the waiting area may force the commuters from the dedicated waiting area to encroach the road. While waterlogging is a result of improper maintenance, on-street parking results from improper enforcement, yet both contribute to the same unsafe act,” said a researcher.
 
 “We would like to work on other busy routes in Kolkata. Based on the pilot work, we would want to do full-scale research. Also, we can suggest appropriate measures to ensure safety,” pointed out Maitra.
 
 
