PUNE: Cybercrime frauds doubled in Pune in 2016 compared to the previous year. Altogether 332 cases related to cybercrime were filed in 2016.

 Interestingly, the rise in the number of cases is not due to any innovative methods adopted by  . In most cases, the victims have succumbed to the allurement of gifts and quick returns and have given away their card details, including pin numbers, to the fraudsters, Pune cybercrime cell senior inspector   told TOI.
 
 In 2016, police registered 119 digital fraud cases and complaint applications. Out of the total fraud cases, 67% accounted for online sale and purchase. Puneites lost over Rs 5 crore in 22 cases and complaint applications, of email spoofing.
 
 There were about 19 cases of online multi-level marketing scams, nine cases and applications of tours and travel frauds where suspects duped their victims by starting fake websites and 66 persons were duped to the tune of Rs 4.5 crore in matrimonial website frauds or friendship site frauds. There were 147 cases and complaint applications of online job frauds and 23 cases of online insurance frauds.
 
 According to the cybercrime cell study, there are about 250 illegal BPOs in and around Noida. Also, fake BPOs are active in Indore and Mumbai, Pawar said, adding that the police stumbled upon illegal BPOs in Noida and adjoining areas after raiding six different BPOs which had duped Puneites.
 
 The recent case in Noida where a 26-year-old BTech graduate tricked more than 6 lakh people into giving him their money through a Ponzi scheme which promised big returns for hitting 'likes' on line, highlighted how cyber criminals have spread their tentacles across the country.
 
 In a little over a year, Anubhav Mittal's Social Trade per petrated a Rs 3,700 crore fraud.
 
 The scheme operated through a maze of dubious URLs (online links) sent to phones of subscribers. When unsuspecting subscribers clicked on those links, they were diverted to Facebook or Twitter profiles of other sub scribers. A fake server was set up where these links would terminate. Pawar said cyber education was a must to check such crimes.
 
 He said   have arrested over 60 men and women from Noida in  , about 12 from Mumbai and a few from Pune and Indore. “Recently, we arrested two youths from Punjab,“ he added.
 
 Pawar said the illegal call centre employees, who have been arrested, have completed their SSC or HSC examinations.
 
 While the prime suspects in cybercrime frauds are graduates or postgraduates, in some cases, police have arrested suspects who had done their MCA, BTech, BCA and other postgraduate courses.
 
 Most of these suspects wanted to make a quick buck and learned the tricks from finance or BPO companies, where they were employed earlier, before starting their own venture, he said.
 
 And it is not just men, police have also arrested about 10 women hailing from nort heastern states in Delhi.
 
 “These women were involved in matrimonial cybercrime frauds. All the women were school dropouts and belonged to poor families, Pawar said.
 
