CHANDIGARH: When bullets harmlessly bounce off the jackets of Indian soldiers at the borders, there is a quiet sense of satisfaction among a small but dedicated group of women scientists in Chandigarh. Working at DRDO’s Terminal Ballistics Research Laboratory (TBRL), they are the ones who test and evaluate bullet-proof jackets and mine-protected vehicles for the armed forces and paramilitary jawans.

 Dr  , who looks after quality assurance at TBRL, Ipsita Biswas, head of the ballistic facility, Dr   of the ballistic facility, Rajesh Kumari, who heads the blasts and damage study group, and her team members Meenakshi Bhatkala, Sakshi Arora are part of this select line-up of six women scientists. They are part of a small group of women at the cutting edge of technology, especially in the defence sector.
 
 There is no room for error for these scientists as the slightest miscalculation in data can risk the lives of the men. They have also pioneered indigenous standard operating procedures (SOPs) for protection armour and vehicles (bulletproof jackets, mine-protected vehicles, helmets, glasses and vehicles).
 
 “In about six months, we will follow our own standards which are at par with the international procedures,” said Dr Manjit Singh, TBRL director. “These protocols, developed by our women scientists, suit our threat levels.”
 
 Working at TBRL is a high-risk job for the women as they test ammunition and explosives for ballistic performance. “We have also developed standards for disposing bombs using bomb basket, bomb blanket and mine protected vehicles,” says Rajesh Kumari. 
 
 When the Army desires bulletproof jackets against any particular ammunition, like that of self-loading rifles and AK47s, these scientists test the ballistic performance of the protective gear. “Our first responsibility is towards the troops manning the border after which we take on other projects,” says Dr Bhattacharya. 
 
 The scientists have also evaluated bulletproof efficiency of glass windows at Delhi airport’s Aerocity. A project was commissioned by the Bureau of Civil Aviation Security to develop a test methodology that deterred a terror attack from the hotels surrounding   International Airport. This group tested the glass which was brought to TBRL.
 
 “When I go home, my son complains of my clothes smelling of explosives,” smiles Dr Arya.
 
