Kolkata: Popular Bengali film actor Kanchana Moitra was allegedly shoved and molested by drunkards while she was returning to her Behala residence after completing her shooting for the day. The incident was reported around 12.30am on Tuesday. Two accused have been arrested so far.

 The actor was in her car and had reached the Siriti Crossing, close to Tollygunge, when the vehicle allegedly brushed past a man standing on the road. Three drunk men in the mob allegedly snatched her car keys and dragged her before pushing and touching her inappropriately. The actor was left on the verge of tears till the night round police officer — OC Taratala Abdullah Sana — reached the spot. 
 
 “I had finished shooting and was crossing the Raja Rammohan Roy Road-B L Saha Road intersection when a brick landed on my car. When we stopped the car, my driver Gour was told that my car’s looking glass had hit a man among the crowd. Before we could react, one of the men snatched the car keys and began running. Left with no other option, we gave chase. In seconds, we got surrounded by the men,” said Moitra.
 
 Initially, the actor and the driver were asked to slap each other 10 times in order to get back the keys. “One of them suddenly said that there was another option — I have to do sit-ups 40 times. And if he was satisfied, I can continue doing so another 40 times after which I can get back the key,” said the actor. Moitra said several men passed by but did not help. 
 
 “I tried to divert the attention of women travelling on bikes but the accused hit my hand each time I sought help. I feared they might snatch even my phone and so did not take the chance to call someone I know,” she said.
 
 Ten minutes later, OC Sana reached the spot. The accused tried to flee but Sana managed to nab one of the accused and recover the keys. “I am happy with the Kolkata Police action. The OC even rebuked bystanders, asking why no one intervened to save a woman. But I am really shocked to see the reaction of fellow citizens. We speak of how no one in Delhi or Bengaluru steps forward to help a victimized woman. Now, even in Kolkata, no one responds to distress calls. I will now think twice before taking a shortcut back home when returning at night,” said Moitra.
 
 Behala police said they have registered a case under IPC sections 341 (wrongful restraint), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 354 (molestation), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 114 (Abettor present when offence is committed). 
 
 “We have arrested two of the accused — Sankar Dauli (25) and Surajit Panda (25) — both residents of Raja Ram Mohan Roy Road. While one is a driver by profession, the other has a private company job,” said DC (Behala) Meeraz Khalid. He added both have been sent to police custody for two days. “The altercation begun after the car brushed past one of the three accused. We are still ascertaining how it all started. The hunt for the third accused is on,” said an investigating officer.
 
 
