KHARAGPUR/KOLKATA: A third-year   of the Indian Institute of Technology-Kharagpur   between Jakpur and Madpur, around 10km from the campus, on Sunday morning. It is believed that  , the deceased, had health issues and was suffering from depression.

 Lokesh, 20, went missing from Radha Krishnan Hall, the campus hostel where he stayed, on Sunday morning. His friends launched a frantic search but failed to track him down. The hostel warden was informed and a complaint was lodged at Hijli police outpost. Police finally found the body on the tracks. Officials from the institure reached the Kharagpur sub-divisional hospital and identified the body. He was a resident of Digheria village, which is in Rajasthan’s Dhasa district.
 
 After being informed by   officials, Lokesh’s father Rammpal reached the campus on Monday. The body was handed over to him after the autopsy.
 
 “The accident took place around 8am on Sunday. “We got an information around 9.30. A loco engine which was moving on the middle line mowed Lokesh down as he jumped in front of it. The engine driver informed the railway staff at Jakpur station,” said a senior Kharagpur GRP official.
 
 A police team that interrogated friends of Lokesh were got to know that he was suffering from anxiety and depression. “We have been told that Lokesh was detected with tuberculosis and also had other health issues. We have also got information that he had spoken to someone at length just before committing suicide. We are now trying to speak to his father. We are trying to find out if any personal loss or family affair was the trigger for Lokesh to end his life,” added an invesigating officer.
 
 “Kharagpur town police station has ended an investigation. The GRP is conducting a separate inquiry,” said SP Bharati Ghosh.
 
 According to IIT-Kharagpur director Partha Pratim Chakrabarty, it was a very sad day for the institute. “Lokesh was a good student and didn’t have any issues related to studies. The friends never told us about his depression or anxiety. We have a counselling centre at IIT-Kharagpur. The centre has intervened many a times and ensured that students get back to their usual self, leaving all anxiety behind. Unfortunately, they couldn’t get time to meet Lokesh,” added the director.
 
 
