Nagpur: The Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) has taken cognizance of absence of toilets and drinking water facilities at gardens maintained by the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC). The move came after a vigilant citizen KD Dabholkar wrote to the PMO citing shocking findings from an RTI query published in the media. The RTI query by senior activist Abhay Kolarkar disclosed that 47 gardens out of 93 did not have toilets for the visitors while 31 did not have drinking water facility. “I am desired to forward a letter of oral representation of July 5 received from Dabholkar for appropriate action. Reply may be sent to the petitioner and its copy should be uploaded on the portal,” a note to Maharashtra chief secretary from section officer at PMO, Alok Suman, mentioned. Dabholkar, also coordinator for Navnirman Nagri Kruti Samiti, pointed out that Prime Minister Narendra Modi started ‘Swachh Bharat’ campaign with much fanfare and publicized it through various media like electronic and print, posters, banners and hoardings. Even from his popular programme ‘Mann Ki Baat’ on radio, he had made various references regarding this scheme while giving a call to all citizens to maintain cleanliness. Bollywood superstar Amitabh Bachchan was also roped in through his ‘Shut the Door’ campaign to spread the message. He brought to fore that Nagpur, which is to be turned into a smart city, is full of garbage everywhere. This is because Kanak Resources, which was roped in to lift the garbage by Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), had failed to carry out its duties, despite the fact that crores were paid to it through taxpayers’ money. “The company is believed to have duped the corporation by allegedly forging records of garbage collected. Otherwise, the city wouldn’t have seen heaps of garbage and debris of construction material everywhere. Due to company’s failure, citizens are seen burning garbage in many areas, thus leading to pollution, despite the high court’s ban in force. Even the labourers engaged in garbage lifting work set it on fire to avoid carrying it all the way to van,” Dabholkar stated in his letter.  Terming it as a cause of concern, he expressed surprise over the fact second capital of India continued to be full of garbage, even as the civic body is ruled by the BJP-led government. If this is not enough, chief minister Devendra Fadnavis and union minister for surface transport Nitin Gadkari, both hail from the city. Still they failed to implement ambitious ‘Swachh Bharat’ scheme, he said. Reacting to it, Kolarkar said condition of most city gardens was pathetic. “In many of them, playing equipment for children and benches are either damaged or stolen, but the officials hardly care to repair or replace them. This is a stark reality considering the fact that crores of rupees collected from taxpayers were spent on these gardens and in lifting of garbage,” he told TOI. (With inputs from Mohnish Nelarwar)