NEW DELHI: India will conclude Comprehensive Strategic Partnership with ?UAE, which until now has been a key strategic ally of Pakistan.
 
  The shift is signified with India inviting the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi   as Chief Guest for Republic-day.  , which has enjoy deep defence ties with Pakistan, has decided to expand its ambit amid the growing flux in West Asia. Pakistan too has been exploring new equations of late.
  
  The CSP with India that was agreed to be concluded during Zayed Al Nahyan visit here last February is not an empty box. This includes robust defence ties including exports to the Gulf state and joint production besides expanding scope of counter-terror and economic partnership.
  
  India sees UAE as one its main destinations for arms exports in the future, according to persons familiar with the matter. Reliance Defence Limited (RDL) has signed a strategic Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Emirates Defence Industries Company (EDIC), a leading integrated Defence Company in the United Arab Emirates. RDL and EDIC will jointly explore the opportunities for manufacturing and building capabilities in defence vehicles, aviation and associated areas, defence equipment and armament manufacturing, defence electronics, commercial and navy ships, MRO of military equipment / platforms, according to informed sources.
  
  The two sides also plan to give momentum to joint defence training and exercise. Both sides took forward their training relationship after a gap of eight years in 2016. ‘Desert Eagle II’, which was the second in the series of bilateral exercises between Indian Air Force (IAF) and United Arab Emirates Air Force (UAE AF), was held during May-June 2016. This was a ten-day air combat exercise in which the IAF and the UAE Air Force undertook air exercises from Al-Dhafra Air Base, Abu Dhabi starting from 22 May 2016. The last desert eagle exercise was held in 2008. A contingent from the UAE armed forces is expected to participate at the Republic Day Parade.
  
  Strengthening Defence partnership was one of the major outcomes of Narendra Modi’s trip to the UAE in 2015 -- his first trip to the region after getting election and first by an Indian PM to Abu Dhabi in over three decades. Bilateral defence ties, which has potential to be first comprehensive in nature between India and any Gulf nation, received further boost with Zayed Al Nahyan’s last trip.
  
  Expansion of counter-terror coordination and cooperation including cooperation among security agencies will add momentum to India-UAE CSP. This is significant amid reports of further slide in UAE-Pak ties following recent assassination of five UAE diplomats in Afghanistan. Kandahar's Police Chief Abdul Raziq had alleged that Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence and the Haqqani Network were behind the terror attack. This was the first time that UAE diplomats were targeted on foreign soil. Earlier in 2015 UAE has been upset with Islamabad for its refusal to send troops in the Yemen conflict.
  
  The growing India-UAE strategic partnership can be gauged from the fact that Abu Dhabi sent out a clear public statement on September 19 a day after Uri attacks suggesting that Delhi should take decisive action against perpetrators. Earlier UAE was among the countries that came out in India’s support within hours of the Pathankot attack. According to counter-terror experts UAE is perturbed with growing terrorist network in the Gulf fearing attacks on its soil. Delhi is emerging as a key counter-terror partner for Abu Dhabi notwithstanding UAE’s traditional ties with Pakistan. But Islamabad’s Kashmir bogey is cutting not much ice with UAE.
  
  Resource rich UAE sees considerable economic opportunities in India as evidenced by its decision to invest $75 billion in India’s infrastructure over the long term and a huge business delegation is likely to accompany the Crown Prince for his trip. Indo-UAE energy ties particularly with regard to strategic oil reserves is also expected to receive boost during the Crown Prince trip.
