PATNA:   chief minister   on Tuesday had a conversation with his controversial deputy   amid growing pressure on him to sack the latter because of the continuing torrent of disclosures of assets held by the   leader in different parts of the state and outside.

 Tejashwi, who had so far avoided discussing the issue that threatens to unravel the coalition, was with the CM for around 40 minutes after a meeting of the state cabinet.
 
 The interaction came on a day when BJP leader   released details of 26 properties allegedly acquired by the 27-year-old Tejashwi, putative successor of RJD boss Lalu Prasad, without having any known source of income.
 
 Furnishing land registration documents,   alleged that 13 properties in Patna and Gopalganj were registered in Tejashwi’s name, while the remaining 13 were owned by companies in which he is either a director or a shareholder.
 
 “Two out of the 13 plots of land which   directly owns were registered in his name in 1993 when he was around three years old. Ten more properties were registered in his name between 2004 and 2009, when his father Lalu was rail minister. One plot at Bairiya on the outskirts of Patna was registered in his name in 2009,” Modi said on the sidelines of his weekly ‘Janata Darbar’.
 
 “Tejashwi has never denied owning all these properties, even though he was a minor. Now that he has been accused of acquiring 13 more benami properties through shell companies after becoming an adult, he is saying he did not even have a beard or moustache at that time,” the leader of opposition in the state legislature said.
 
 The fresh allegations against Tejashwi will shrink Nitish’s elbow room by raising questions about the sincerity of his “zero tolerance towards corruption” stand. JD(U) is worried about the consequences of the disclosure of Tejashwi’s assets on Nitish’s image as an honest politician, and has demanded that Lalu’s son ought to come clean.
 
 Modi said Tejashwi should either resign on moral grounds or Nitish should sack him to keep his image intact. The BJP leader also supported JD(U)’s stance that Tejashwi make a full disclosure of his properties.
 
 Significantly, Modi dismissed Tejashwi’s defence that he could not be accused of corruption because of properties which were registered in his name when he was a minor. He said, “Delight Marketing was given three acres of land in Patna through 10 sale deeds in 2005.
 
 In 2013-14, the firm was taken over by Tejashwi and Rabri Devi. He must have been 23 at that time. In 2016, when Lara Projects LLP (Delight Marketing was rechristened as Lara Projects in 2016) entered into an agreement with RJD MLA Abu Dojana’s firm Meridian Construction (India) Limited for development of a mall on the three acres of land, Tejashwi was the deputy CMof Bihar.”
 
 Giving details of the 13 properties acquired through firms owned by Tejashwi, Modi said, “Tejashwi acquired 13 properties through shell firms run by him and other family members of Lalu, including Rabri Devi and elder son and health minister Tej Pratap. These shell firms are Delight Marketing Company Pvt Ltd, Ab Exports Private Limited and AK Infosystems Private Limited.”
 
 Modi said the 13 plots acquired through the shell firms run by Tejashwi and his family members had already been declared benami and provisionally attached by the income tax department.
 
