NEW DELHI: The Centre has decided to grant citizenship to around 1 lakh Chakma and Hajong refugees living in the north-eastern states in line with the directives of the Supreme Court, but minister of state for home   assured that the government would ensure that the rights of indigenous people are not diluted. 

 The issue was discussed at the home ministry at a meeting attended by home minister  ,   chief minister   and national security advisor Ajit Doval, besides Rijiju among others.
 
 Rijiju said a “middle ground” would be adopted so that the 2015 Supreme Court order to grant citizenship to Chakma-Hajong refugees could be honoured without diluting the rights of the local population. “The Supreme Court order has to be honoured. Chakmas have been settled in Arunachal Pradesh since 1964. But ST status and indigenous people’s rights won’t be diluted,” he said.
 
 The initiative on the Chakma and Hajong refugees comes amid the ongoing row over the central government’s plans to deport Rohingya Muslims, who came to India due to alleged persecution in Myanmar. Rijiju, who belongs to Arunachal Pradesh, has said Rohingyas are illegal immigrants and should be deported.
 
 Several organisations and civil society groups in Arunachal Pradesh have been opposing grant of citizenship to Chakma and Hajong refugees, saying it would change the state’s demography.
 
 The central government is trying to find a workable solution by proposing that the refugees will not be given rights, including land ownership, enjoyed by Scheduled Tribes in Arunachal Pradesh, an official said. However, they may be given Inner Line permits required for non-locals in Arunachal to travel and work.
 
 Rijiju blamed the Congress for the current situation, saying that the then government had settled the refugees in Arunachal Pradesh without taking the local people into confidence. “The Congress has done great injustice to the local people. We are trying to find a middle ground so that the SC order is honoured, the local people's rights are not infringed and the human rights of the Chakmas and Hajongs are protected,” he said.
 
 The minister said a petition may be filed on the issue in the SC soon.
 
 Chakmas and Hajongs were originally residents of the   Tracts in erstwhile East Pakistan (now Bangladesh) who left their homeland when it was submerged by the Kaptai Dam project in the 1960s. 
 
