PANAJI: For 39 days now, Balkrishna   has been on hunger strike outside the office of the directorate of education in Porvorim from 9am to 6pm. Braving the scorching sun without even a water bottle to aide his struggles, he sits amid a few propped placards that highlight the cause for his protest.

 Busa’s daughters were students at Taleigao’s   whose headmistress   was accused of harassment in 2014 by several parents. An FIR was filed and a case was also registered in the children’s court, in the matter. Busa’s daughters have since transferred to a different school, but he continues to hold vigil outisde the DoE, demanding Afonso’s removal in the interest of students. His demands for action rest on a suo motu order passed by the State Commission for Protection of Child Rights in 2014 based on media reports of allegations against the headmistress.
 
 The order states that disciplinary action should be initiated against the headmistress, Maria Zita Afonso, ‘for acts unbecoming of the headmistress of a school’ or else she should be removed from the school and her services be terminated.
 
 In 2015, Busa approached the high court of Bombay at Goa, which found the commission’s order ‘recommendatory’ in nature and stated that “we find that the directorate of education, if so advised, can initiate action against the school management, in case of any breach found to have been committed by the school management, in accordance with law.”
 
 Director of education G P Bhat told TOI, “We cannot help him as his daughters are no longer studying in the school. We allowed a mid-term transfer of his daughters from the school when they sought one. DoE can only take action when the school management’s inquiry finds any evidence against the headmistress. We have done the needful and the school management has found nothing wrong, then how can we take action?” Afonso, who was charged for alleged child abuse, has been discharged by Goa Children’s Court for lack of evidence in the case.
 
 The school management said it has begun to initiate action against its staff members who were involved in “hatching a conspiracy of filing false complaints” against the headmistress.
 
 
