The producers of   are delighted with the positive feedback that the recently-released film has received so far. Raghunath from,  , and S Umapathy, from  , say they owe a lot to their lead actor  , who has stood like a pillar supporting even after it crossed the finish line. The duo say that the film will remain memorable for many reasons, one of which is the Kashmir schedule.
“The journey and adventures began right from the recee trip, where director Krishna and I landed on August 14, which happened to be Pakistan’s Independence Day. There was a tension-filled atmosphere, but we decided to go for it and travelled 120 km on a rented bike, with three of us riding through the nights and checking on places. We decided we will test our luck and go ahead with our plans. When the team was to leave Kashmir, when we reached the aiport, we saw news of tensions. I still convinced the lead actors, Sudeep and Amala Paul, that all is well and we decided to go for it. I had the support from the local deputy superintendent of police and others. In fact, some of the guns that we have used for the scenes are actual ones taken from the army,” says Umapathy, recalling the experiences from the schedule. 
 Raghunath says that the film is special because, it deals with many relevant social issues like the sacrifice made by soldiers, generic medicine mafia and corruption and more in a very entertaining way. “We have to thank the local people and the Indian army on how they supported us and took care of our safety and concerns. Also, the advantage of shooting in Kashmir is that the visuals cannot be matched,” says Raghunath.
 The makers now plan to have a special screening for army officers. “We are in the discussion stages and plan to make the official announcement regarding all the details when they get finalized. Since it is a special subject, we want them to see it,” says Raghunath.
 
 
 One of the most memorable parts of the Kashmir schedule was how lead actor Sudeep turned chef for the cast and crew almost daily. “We had a team of 100 people and Sudeep would dish out amazing treats everyday. In fact, I would buy full lambs for the feasts,” reveals S Umapathy.
 
 
