BENGALURU/BELAGAVI: An uneasy calm descended on  , Parappana Agrahara on Sunday, a day before a high-level probe team is slated to investigate complaints of irregularities in the prison.

 About 32 convicts were moved out of the prison on Saturday after they were allegedly involved in a group clash when DIG D Roopa visited the jail.
 
 Two reports to her higher up from Roopa alleging preferential treatment for VIP prisoners, including   leader V K Sasikala, touched off the controversy, prompting the state government to order the high-level probe led by former IAS officer Vinay Kumar.
 
 During Roopa's visit, a group of prisoners raised slogans praising her, while another group allegedly supporting other senior jail officers took objection to them and raised anti-Roopa slogans.Soon they got into a scuffle and clashed with each other. The jail staff intervened and sent the prisoners to their barracks. Alarmed by the incident, jail authorities shifted the prisoners involved in the clash on Saturday night. While the exact number could not be ascertained, an unconfirmed reports said 32 prisoners were sent to various prisons across the state. Three prisoners -Ananthamurthy, Balu and Long Babu -arrived in Hindalga jail in   on Sunday afternoon, while four others were sent to a Dharwad jail.
 
 A Belagavi report said the trio sent to Hindalga had provided vital information to Roopa on corruption and supply of narcotics in the Parappana Agrahara prison.
 
 Agency reports quoted an unnamed jail official as saying, “As many as 32 convicts jailed in Parapanna Agrahara Prison have been shifted to   and Belagavi prisons. They have been shifted because they tried to air their grievances and level corruption charges against senior jail authorities, including the chief jail superintendent.“
 
 Inmates wanted to meet DIG: The official said the jail inmates were desperate to meet Roopa as they think she could solve their problems. Superintendent of Ballari central prison, Ranganath told TOI that prisoners Ramamurthy, Shivashankar and Shreenivas, who have been serving jail term for murder, have been transferred to the Ballari prison.
 
 Prisoners Syed Kaisar, Vasant Urs, and Krishna Mallaiah were shifted to   central jail on Sunday afternoon.
 
