Mumbai: As many as 1,327 farmers have committed suicide in the state in the last six months, official figures show. This is only 14% less than the 1,543 cases recorded till June-end last year. The state had announced a limited   on June 3 and a Rs 34,022-crore loan waiver on June 24. 

 Significantly,   have actually risen in both Vidarbha’s   and the sugar belt of Western Maharashtra compared to last year. Amravati–the epicenter of farmer suicides in the state—recorded 503 cases compared to 483 last year. Western Maharashtra recorded 50 cases compared to 45 last year. 
 
 The   region, home to chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, continues to record the highest number of farmer suicides (629). While the Amravati belt saw a rise in cases, the Nagpur division with126 cases saw a 33% decline compared to last year.
 
 The arid region of Marathwada recorded 459 cases, a decline from 568 cases last year. North Maharashtra, epicenter of the recent farmer protests, recorded 223 cases, a slight decline from the 257 last year. The Konkan region has recorded only two cases so far this year.
 
 Besides the loan waiver, the state has also announced a Rs 10,000 loan advance for the kharif season. However, not much has trickled down to beneficiaries owing to procedural delays and stringent eligibility norms.
 
 Farm activists blame state policies for the continuing farmer suicides. “We would have expected a sharper fall in the number of cases this year since last year saw a water crisis till May. The state needs to provide better   and also hike import duties to protect the domestic market,” said Kisan Sabha’s Ajit Nawle.
 
 The intermittent rains across the state have also led to the prospect of repeat sowing especially in the Vidarbha region. “This will significantly hike the input costs for farmers,” said farm activist Vijay Jawandhia.
 
 Farm groups are pressing for higher prices for crops, without which farm incomes are unlikely to rise. “The support price for soyabean is Rs 3,050 per quintal but farmers are selling for Rs 2700 in the market. How will they break even?” Jawandhia said.
 
 
