Even one week after the release of  , reports about the film's record breaking collections are continuing to flood timelines of Telugu cinema lovers world over. '  and ruling the Box Office.' 'Mass audience ki Boss evergreen.' 'All time record.' The social media is agog with one-liners raving about the Megastar's charisma as a slew 
of movie inspired hashtags like #100CrGrossForKhaidi, #Boss is back #KhaidiNo150, #Chiranjeevi have been trending relentlessly. Director   says the success of the film boiled down to one factor:  ! His charisma rather.
 'When I saw annayya walk in to the sets on the first day of the shoot itself I knew the film would be a blockbuster. I was stunned. He looked more glamourous than he did in my film   (2003). In fact he looked like Chiranjeevi from Choodalaniundi (1998) days. It was like he turned the clock back,' shares VV Vinayak.
 Watching how effortlessly the Megastar flitted between the dual roles of Kathhi Seenu, a convict on the run, and Shankar a good samaritan who is fighting for the rights of poor farmers, was a delight, says the director. 'When Annayya is on the set, he becomes the cynosure of all eyes. He doesn't even have to do anything. Such is his charisma. I was most impressed with the subtleties he showed in the expressions, particularly as in the Lion's Club scene where Kathhi Seenu decides to take up Shankar's cause,' says Vinayak, adding, 'Only people who worked with him will know this ' annayya would isolate himself on the days he has to do emotional scenes. He wouldn't talk to anyone and would go sit in a quiet corner. And the moment the scene is done he would switch back to his bubbly demeanour.'
  Directing Chiranjeevi during the dance sequences was what VV Vinayak enjoyed most. 'His grace is unmatchable. He has a signature step in every song in the movie and he did justice to every one of them. A lot of times I would OK a dance move only to hear Chiranjeevi garu say, 'No. One more take.' We would oblige sceptically, but then after he gave that one extra shot we could see the difference on the monitor. The finesse he brings to the smallest dance movements is just amazing,' says VV Vinayak, signing off.
 
 
