MUMBAI: All kinds of political manoeuvring in India ­ be it the legislature, state assemblies, private sector, government sector or sports ­ have predominantly had some kind of proxy driving the state of affairs. It is only in cricket ­ given India's unabashed following for the sport and the media that so ardently covers it ­ that proxies have shown they exist.

 The  's verdict on   president  , who also happens to be a Member of the Parliament representing the ruling  , was received with applause and trepidation on Monday. However, those who understand the dynamics of Indian cricket administration ­ the only space in which all political parties, irrespective of their ideologies, 'work together' ­ say the real headache for the   is likely to begin now.
 
 “If the effort is to really clean up Indian cricket, then the true test will be in ensuring that BCCI doesn't become a victim of proxies. Some really powerful people will have to exit cricket administration once and for all. However, that doesn't mean they will not fight to ensure that `their own men' replace them in BCCI,” a senior ex-functionary of the board told TOI.
 
 Administrators have held on to some post or the other either in the BCCI's list of office-bearers or in state associations for years and refused to make way for others. “Now, if they suddenly have to leave, what are they most likely to do, given their comprehensive understanding of how things work? They will make way for brothers, sisters, sons and daughters to take over. They'll ensure it remains within the family,” he added.
 
 The Lodha Committee is certainly aware of how proxies have been eating into cricket administration for years. But the committee strongly believes that once the recommendations are implemented in totality, the tenure and cooling off period will not allow the practice to continue for long. “The tenure and cooling off period ensures there's not much space for favouritism. It is the people who were blocking the implementation who needed to go.   has finally ensured that,” another senior administrator said.
 
 Which finally leads to the all-important question that the cricket fraternity is now asking: “What if state associations continue to defy the recommendations and refuse to implement it? Regardless of Thakur and Shirke being asked to leave, won't the situation remain the same?” The new set of administrators ­ recommended by senior legal counsels Gopal Subramanium and Fali S Nariman ­ will still require 34th majority of the state associations to agree to the recommendations before fresh elections can be called to pick the proposed nine-member apex council.
 
 “Today's SC order is an indicator of the repercussions that are likely if the recommendations are not implemented. If you don't fit the eligibility criteria, you have to leave. You either leave quietly, or you get sacked and booted out. That's the available choice,” a source tracking developments said.
 
