Ghaziabad: A 51-year-old man was killed when a bus belonging to Delhi Public School ( ),  , hit his bicycle from behind on Meerut road in the morning on Tuesday.

 The man, Shiv Shankar, died on the spot. The bus driver fled, immediately after the accident, leaving students in the bus. Another driver arrived after around 20 minutes and drove them to school. At the time of the accident, the bus was ferrying 15 students, who, according to the school administration, did not suffer any injuries.
 
  
  Nandgram resident Shiv Shankar, who worked in a factory on Meerut road, was on his way to work on his bicycle. “He was hit by a speeding bus belonging to   near the Shriram Pistons & Rings factory,” said Umakant, Shiv Shankar’s landlord.
 
 A crowd gathered at the spot soon after the accident and blocked Meerut road. It was eventually cleared for traffic only after police reached the spot and pacified the protesters.
 
 “The bus was being driven at a very high speed. When it hit Shiv Shankar, he fell by the roadside, and the bus crushed him under its front wheel. He died on the spot,” said Rupesh Kumar, an eyewitness. 
 
 “There were young children in the bus when the accident took place. They appeared shocked, but fortunately they did not receive any injury,” added Kumar.
 
 Meanwhile, the school administration has denied the bus was speeding. “It was an unfortunate incident but the bus was not speeding. We have confirmed this from a teacher who was present in the bus at the time,” said Sanjay Agarwal, vice-principal, DPS Ghaziabad. When asked if the driver Suresh Tyagi is a regular employee, Agarwal said, “The bus belongs to the school, but the driver was a contractual employee.”
 
 The bus has been impounded and an FIR lodged against the driver. 
 
 “A case has been lodged against the driver, Suresh Tyagi, under sections 279 (rash driving) and 304A (causing death by negligence) of the IPC. He is absconding and is yet to surrender. Police teams have been formed to nab the driver,” said Vinod Kumar Pandey, SHO, Sihani Gate police station.
 
 
