

 CHENNAI: The   government is likely to keep in abeyance its earlier decision to slap a 30% tax on theatre tickets, through local bodies, for about six months, provided the theatre owners across the state usher in transparency in their ticketing system. The theatre owners have also been warned not to jack up ticket prices for big star films. 
 
 Consequently, around 1,100 theatres in the state have been instructed to adopt 'computerised ticketing' with rates and tax clearly mentioned on them and also to avoid the practice of issuing tokens, which has so far led to bleeding of revenues and resulting in losses to all. Those theatres that do not have such a facility at present have sought a week's time to procure the necessary hardware and software and until then will adopt manual billing. "That is the biggest fallout of the four-day strike since Monday by theatre owners in Tamil Nadu. Chief minister,   had clearly warned the theatre owners that if the government receives any complaints of malpractise, it will not hesitate to impose the 30% tax through local bodies immediately," an office bearer of the Tamil Nadu Theatre Owners and Distributors Association, who participated in the talks with the government, told TOI.
 
 According to him, the biggest worry for the government was loss of revenues. Multiplexes were never a problem, since they maintain transparency in the ticketing system. It was the single screen theatres in rest of Tamil Nadu that the government feared, when it came to loss of revenue.
 
 To assuage that fear, the theatre owners offered to implement a transparent ticketing system. This can, however, be done only when the 'C'Form, through which the theatres declare the price of tickets, are upgraded to reflect the latest and correct rates. While multiplexes and established theatres in large cities like Chennai have done this, theatres in the small towns and rest of Tamil Nadu even now indicate the official rates as 2, 5 and 10 in their 'C' Forms, despite charging anywhere between 50- 70 per ticket. 
 
 Meanwhile, theatres increased the prices of tickets from Friday. Multiplexes added 28% GST to the 120 priced tickets and were retailing the same at 153.60 for online bookings, rounding it off to 153 for counter buys. The rates of tickets priced below 100 went up by 18%. "It is like any other product. The actual price plus GST,"Abirami Ramanathan, president, Tamil Nadu Theatre Owners and Distributors Association said. "The local body tax has been kept in abeyance for the present," he added, without elaborating further. 
 
