PUNE: Talk on renewable energy , water conservation, introduction of the French system of learning and other varied topics were covered at the annual technical festival called   '17 hosted by College of Engineering, Pune (CoEP).

 The festival is brought to you by The  .The three-day festival culminated on Sunday with prize distribution and a stand-up show by Abhishek Upmanyu Keeping up with the theme of this year, `Towards TechnoUtopia', where students embark on a journey of creating an ideal society using engineering knowledge. 
 
 MindSpark turned 11 this year and was conducted on September 22, 23 and 24.The event hosted a wide range of events, both technical and non-technical.Digital India, Make in India, Startup India were some of the patronages of the event this year.
 
 A statement issue by the organisers said more than 25,000 people witnessed the technical festival. The event started with the inauguration by social activist Medha Patkar. She stressed on the fact that technology and nature go hand-in-hand. “As engineers we ought to know the pros and cons of technology and hence apply it carefully to the welfare of society ,“ Patkar said.
 
 Students got to experience mini-Imagica feeling where they played games and won exciting prizes. A keynote lecture was given by  , principal scientific advisor to the Government of India and former chairman of Atomic Energy Commission.He talked about the importance of renewable sources of energy and elaborated on his definition of a progressive society.
 
 The most awaited event of day one was the pro-nite where popular rock band The Local Train made the evening musical by presenting their album tour 'Aalas ka Pedh'.Students were mesmerized by their soulful lyrics and enchanting music.
 
 On day two of the festival Sonam Wangchuk, the man behind The Ice Stupa Project and the founder of the The Himalayan Institute of Alternatives in Ladakh delivered a talk. His motivational speech inspired students as he spoke about his fully-fledged school in Ladakh, which is completely different from any other conventional school in the country , where things are taught practically and rote-learning is a no-no and completely run by students. He motivated students to take up tough challenges and come out with solutions.
 
 MindSpark'17 also hosted Campus France, an organization promoting French education worldwide for a fair at CoEP. It aimed to introduce students to the French system of learning which was a grand success.
 
 The first technical exhibition at MindSpark was also held. A few start-ups presented their ideas to students.The exhibition also included a special two-hour session with a panel including successful entrepreneurs, investors and funders where the start-ups would be given a chance to pitch their ideas.
 
 The evening witnessed a MindSpark cultural night.The audience was completely enchanted by the performances of the CoEPians.
 
