NEW DELHI: Influential sections within the government are opposed to the idea of levying any “handling fee” on cash withdrawals above Rs 50,000 per day from current account as suggested by a panel of chief ministers in its interim report on  .

 Sources said even within the panel there were differences on the issue with some saying that levying any handling fee on   would hurt bank deposits and prompt people to go for more cash dealings. “It would not act as any deterrent rather it will hurt banks. It would lead to financial dis-intermediation,” said a source.
 
 The chief minister’s panel headed by Andhra Pradesh CM   had recommended levying a nominal ‘cash handling fee’ on withdrawals from current account above a threshold, say Rs 50,000 per day.
 
 The rising opposition to the proposal may prompt the government to go slow on the issue. The finance ministry issued a clarification soon after the report was unveiled, saying that no final decision had been taken on the issue. The report, which was unveiled ahead of the  , had triggered speculation that the proposal may be implemented. 
 
 The CM’s panel had said that the fee should not be confused with the banking cash transaction tax (BCTT) that was levied in 2005 by the then UPA government with the objective of generating revenues. It had said that the fee would be collected by banks and used for ‘defraying’ their costs of handling cash transactions. “The committee is of the view that such a fee is also necessary for ensuring a level-playing field between cash transactions and digital payments,” the panel had said in its interim report.
 
 Sources said that the proposal to consider cap on maximum allowable limit of cash in large ticket transactions such as vehicles, jewellery, real estate, high-end luxury goods like watches, handbags, electronic goods, utility bill payments may find strong backing.
 
 The government has undertaken a massive drive to push digitisation and cut down the use of cash as part of its fight against black money. According to the report, India remains a largely cash-based economy with cash accounting for more than 78% of all retail payments. It said the cash dependence, in turn, has impacted government’s ability to widen tax compliance and improve tax revenue.
 
