Chandigarh: The enforcement directorate (ED), which is probing the money laundering case with regard to the allotment of a plot to Associated Journals Limited (AJL) in Panchkula, has asserted that former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda had “misused his position and caused wrongful gains to the AJL and corresponding loss to the state exchequer”.

 The premier agency told the court that the Panchkula-based plot worth crores of rupees was re-allotted to the AJL for Rs 59 lakh, including interest, though they were not even legally entitled for re-allotment. These assertions were made by the ED before the Punjab and Haryana high court on Wednesday in response to a petition filed by Moti Lal Vora, veteran congress leader and chairman of AJL, seeking quashing of enforcement case investigation report (ECIR) registered by the ED.
 
 Appearing for ED, additional solicitor general, Satya Pal Jain informed the HC that Vora had not approached the court with clean hands as he had concealed a vital fact regarding representations by the AJL to Bansi Lal for restoration of a plot and its non-consideration by the former chief minister in 1997. Jain also submitted a detailed reply from the ED through its deputy director S K Kantiwal, submitting that the initial investigation had revealed that the AJL, after non-consideration of its request by Bansi Lal, did not make any effort. It waited for a suitable time and period when conditions were positive for getting a favourable order regarding restoration.
 
 “Initial allotment to the AJL was cancelled/resumed by Huda estate officer due to non-fulfilment of allotment conditions. Request for extending time limit for construction on the plot was accepted thrice by Hooda against the policy by abusing his official position though orders issued on May 1, 2008, February 14, 2011, and May 10, 2012,” the ED claimed in its reply. It has also been claimed by the ED that Vora has not been cooperating during the investigation.
 
 Taking ED’s reply on record, the HC has adjourned the case for July 31 for further hearing.
 
 The entire controversy pertains to an institutional plot no. C-17, Sector 6, Panchkula, which was allotted by Huda to the AJL in 1982 but the same was resumed in 1992 on account of non-construction. The appeal and revision filed by the AJL against resumption of plot were dismissed by administrator, Huda, and financial commissioner, town and country planning department, Haryana, in 1995 and 1996, respectively. However, when Hooda became chief minister in 2005, he allowed re-allotment of the plot to the AJL.
 
 On July 15, 2016, the ED had registered an ECIR with regard to the controversy and in October 2016, the agency had issued notice to Vora regarding investigation of the case. The 86-year old veteran leader was recently questioned by the ED, along with Hooda.
 
 
