PUNE: It's been a frustrating week for the Deokars from   Apartments in Sadashiv Peth. Electricity to their building has been erratic since May 12, because of a fuse problem, which the power utility rectified only on Wednesday evening. 

 Worse, engineers of the  , who visited the building three days after the residents complained, told them to purchase the fuse themselves, violating rules of their own standard of performance code.
 
 The affected citizens have sought compensation from the power distribution company.
 
 Describing the agony suffered by four homes and two shops in the 'B' building of the apartment complex, Nitin Deokar said, "The problem began in the morning on May 12. Till May 15, electricity kept coming and going with big flickers. I have been forced to keep my television off the entire time and operated the refrigerator intermittently to prevent spoilage. It got worse after dark as we have no power back-up."
 
 President of the complex, Maj Gen S C N   (retd) has been following up with officials of the power distribution company since the first day. 
 
 Expressing frustration with their response, he said, "Shoddy treatment has been meted out to us by MSEDCL and reflects its utter indifference toward consumers. The consumers were without uninterrupted power for at least 75 hours. Surely, fixing a simple fuse should not be a big problem for the engineers. Even then, they just removed the fuses and made a direct connection, which is dangerous".
 
 The case has now been taken up for redressal by Sajag Nagrik Manch, a city-based consumer rights forum. Its president   has sent an email to the chief engineer of the power company's Pune zone, stating, "We strongly condemn the behaviour of your staff and officers, who have total disregard to the SOP provisions as well as for consumer satisfaction. Poor service quality and non-availability of maintenance material in Pune zone is a shame on the entire management".
 
 Responding to queries from TOI about the status of the residents' complaint, a senior MSEDCL official said, "The MSEDCL is only responsible for the supply of power. If a meter is faulty, we can replace it. However, cost of faulty parts like fuses has to be borne by the consumers." 
 
