NAGPUR: The fares at civic-run buses are becoming a matter of concern for physically challenged commuters, as some   are not equipped with the software to provide allotted concessions.

 The machines are providing these commuters tickets that is worth half of the actual value, whereas the allotted concession is one-fourth of the actual value.
 
 A case in point is Lakshman  , a resident of  , whose right hand was amputated. He recently faced the brunt of this injustice. He told TOI, “Since the new bus operator took over, the physically challenged community is facing the problem. At times, I have been asked to get off the bus due to lack of money, which I am not even supposed to pay.”
 
 Bawankule provided TOI the bus ticket he had bought a few days ago, to travel from RBI Square to Ganeshpeth Bus Stand. The actual cost is Rs9, but he had to pay Rs5 instead of Rs2. He added, “The social welfare department is very difficult to reach. Hence, our voice is not being heard properly by the  .”
 
 TOI checked the website of NMC and found that not a single number was available to contact the social welfare department.
 
 Bawankule is not the lone commuter to have faced this issue. More than 2,000 such commuters travel by city buses on a daily basis. The NMC has provided such disabled commuters reserved seats and concession in bus fares to help them handle day-to-day chores with ease, without worrying about the travel expenses.
 
 TOI spoke to city bus conductors, who said on the condition of anonymity that quite a few new machines are not calibrated to provide one-fourth concession to the physically challenged. They claimed that they are instructed to provide only manual tickets in times of ‘emergency’.
 
 Delhi Integrated Multi-modal Transit System Limited (DIMTS) looks after machine distribution, proper execution in the city and operates almost 500 machines daily. Chandra Prakash Tiwari, resident team leader of  , said, “Ticket concession is the right of every physically challenged person and we shall look into the issue. We have instructed the conductors to provide manual tickets to the commuters in times of emergency.”
 
 However, he did not clarify the terms and conditions of ‘emergency’. He claimed that he heard about the issue for the first time through TOI.
 
 Namdeo Yadavrao Balgar, social activist and in-charge of Apanga Association, Dhantoli, said, “This is a serious issue. The corporation and the contractors should gear up. We will appeal to the mayor, divisional controller, transportation department and NMC to intervene and correct the wrongdoings.”
 
