Did you know a day before the world found   took his sister Mandi and   took his mother to the Oscar’s, it was a   star who set the trend of taking family date at award ceremonies? Here is the trivia for you. Our very own, actor   took his cousin Agnimita Giri Sarkar to the Filmfare fair. Anirban who bagged the Black Lady for best supporting actor for his performance in   this year is still see-sawing between that glitzy, starry evening and the ground reality of everyday shooting and dieting. In a chat with us, the actor tells the tale of the pleasant shock he got on that evening...
 
 
 
 Absolutely not. I already got an award this year (BFJ for the promising actor). I thought that was it and enough. I got my recognition for what I have done. Never, for a moment, did I think that the celebration would linger till one of the biggest functions of the year. Filmfare is a name that I know since I was in school. It is an institution for all of us. It is still dreamlike.
  
 
 
 I was baffled at the beginning. As I was entering the red carpet, a woman started talking to me in English. Now, that i s a language I am particularly scared of (laughs). Any way, all was well at the beginning. She was asking me some random questions and I was being able to counter them seamlessly. And then, suddenly, she said something about my attire. And that went beyond me! The lady, being one of the most sensitive people around, soon sensed my dilemma-induced silence and maneuvered me to a much comfortable zone.
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 All I can remember is that my sister pulled me up from my chair and literally pushed me towards the stage. I went blank! I remember Shibu da patted my cheek. I was shell shocked… in a good way, of course (laughs).
 
 
 
 
 No, but I wholeheartedly thank Filmfare. But most importantly, I thank Arindam da (Sil). Maybe he loves me a tad too much or he loves my acting a bit more than usual.
  
 
 
  
 Yes. All of them are giants – way, way bigger actors than I am. And that’s the reason I never thought I could bring the Black Lady home. It seems to me that all those stalwart actors including   and Arun Guha Thakurta made way for me to go up on the stage. It is their gesture of saying, “Go and get it, boy. And do some better work in future.” In fact, the person I share my award with,  , is an enormous actor. It has been an absolute honour to be able to share this award with him.
  
 
 
 Hardly. I missed the post-award party since I had shooting next morning. More over, for my next film (Arindam Sil’s next based on Dhananjoy Chattopadhya’s life) I am on a strict diet. Mishti aar payesh khete parchi na. Sigh! I will have a blast as soon as the shooting gets over.
  
 
