MUMBAI: After much persuasion by chief minister  , the RSS has agreed to join the party's campaign for the BMC elections. The  's virulent anti-Modi blitzkrieg weakened the  's resolve to keep away from municipal elections, it is learnt.

 That the RSS should agree to join the poll campaign is an indication that the Parivar has softened its stance vis-avis the BJP. There were reports that the Sangh was upset with the   over distribution of tickets in the Nagpur civic elections and also for rolling out the red carpet for leaders with dubious dis tinction in a bid to cut the Shiv Sena and the Congress to size ahead of the civic elections, sources said.
 
 The Sangh functionaries have fanned out to a clutch of municipal wards in Mumbai, monitoring the final phase of electioneering and clearing decks for a good turnout of voters on the day of polling. The BMC election is to be held on February 21. In many wards, RSS swayamsevaks (activists) will have to quell factionalism and infighting.
 
 The RSS-affiliated bodies such as the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad and the   too have been asked to lend a helping hand to the BJP ahead of the Mumbai civic election.
 
 Sena's flagship trade unions -the Bharatiya Kam gar Sena, the MTNL Kamgar Sena and the Sthaneeya Lokadhikar Samiti Mahasangh -too are streamlining the party's poll campaign.
 
 “The Sangh activists are steeped in organisational matters. We are weak organisationally in certain pockets in south and central Mumbai. The swayamsevaks will be of immense help to our workers,“ said a BJP MLA on Saturday .
 
 Fadnavis decided to rope in the RSS after he reviewed the BJP's poll campaign at a meeting held at Varsha, the CM's official residence, last week, it is learnt. Senior BJP ministers, MPs, legislators and party functionaries attended the conclave.
 
 Fadnavis and Mumbai BJP president Ashish Shelar prepared a list of civic wards where the poll campaign was found to have slowed down.“There are at least 50 wards where we need to put in extra effort and gear up the poll machinery . Both Devendraji and Ashishji decided to tap the RSS powerhouse,“ said the BJP MLA.
 
 Shelar spoke with senior RSS functionaries, urging them to appoint swayamsevaks for the poll campaign in the suburban stretch of Borivli-Kandivli-Malad-Vile Parle; and also in Mulund, Ghatkopar, Chembur, Dadar and Girgaum, sources said.
 
 “The RSS activists will work in wards where the BJP is on a weak wicket. We have been asked to monitor the vo ters' list on the day of polling, streamline the voting and work out a mechanism to ensure a good turnout of voters,“ said a Sangh activist.The Sangh is of the view that 55%-65% voting in Mumbai will help the BJP garner more seats than the Sena.
 
 “There are countless glitches on the election day ­ a lot of running around to do, interact with EC officials and voters as well.
 
 This requires patience and perseverance. RSS activists have these two qualities in plenty ,“ said a city BJP functionary .
 
 Those in the BJP with strong RSS links were the first to call up senior Sangh functionaries.
 
 “As soon as I realised that we are going slow in a couple of wards, I rang up a senior RSS pracharak and requested him to be with us. He agreed,“ said a BJP MLA from western suburbs.
 
