CHANDIGARH: A rainy Saturday morning couldn’t hold back residents from cycling around the city in support of the Rally for Rivers (RFR) campaign of Isha Foundation. Called the RFR Cyclothon, the event was flagged off by   lieutenant governor Kiran   from the Sukhna lake.

 CITCO (Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Development Corporation) managing director Kavita Mohan was present to cheer up the cyclists, which included volunteers from the NCC (National Cadet Corps), NSS (National Service Scheme), city schools, Chandigarh Cycling Club, Riders of the Storm, and many amateur groups. Jasjeet Singh of the Chandigarh Cycling Club said: “This is a huge day for us. For saving our rivers, this is our chance to show open support to the national campaign of   ‘Sadhguru’ of Isha Foundation.”
 
 Another participant said he had come to join the cause of saving rivers for the future generations. “Punjab was a land of five rivers, of which we are left with only three. It is our duty to save these waters,” he said. The 300-plus on the 9.3-km route touched the cricket stadium, station chowk, Sectors 18 to 21, AP Chowk, Heer Singh Chowk, before coming back to the lake. Some of the cyclists were in their sixties and seventies.
 
 Puducherry lieutenant governor Kiran Bedi called Chandigarh one if the cyclist-friendliest cities of India. “I have been organising Saturday cleaning drives called ‘Swachhta rallies in Pondicherry. This is my 106th cleaning weekend,” she said. “The rallies for sanitation, women’s safety, and other social causes should be a weekend routine even in Chandigarh. We can spread the word through pamphlets. These could be a way of connecting with the local administrators.” 
 
 Bedi also led the cyclothon briefly and praised Chandigarh for its high rate of literacy. In a message to its citizens, she said: “You guys are extremely blessed to have the best of both the East and the West. You have education, medical services, culture, entertainment, and everything else you require for modern living. There is no need to go anywhere else.”
 
 Talking about change, she said: “Change begins from home, parents, college, school, and teachers. I grew up to be strong woman from what I got from my family and teachers.”
 
