CHENNAI: While embers of anti-hydrocarbon and oil exploration projects are still simmering in Tamil Nadu, the state government has declared about 23,000 hectares spread across 45 villages in   and   districts as Petroleum, Chemicals and   (PCPIR). The Centre would allocate Rs 1,146 crores for improving infrastructure such as road and rail connectivity in the region.

 PCPIR would be a specifically delineated investment region for establishment of manufacturing facilities for producing petroleum, chemicals and petrochemicals along with associated services and infrastructure meant for domestic consumption and export. Each PCPIR would have a refinery petrochemical feedstock company as an anchor tenant.Though company officials say it would have nothing to do with oil or gas exploration or drilling, environmental activists, who have expressed concern over the project, say it will have an adverse impact on local ecology.
 
 A notification by the state housing and urban development department dated July 19, 2017 declared delineation of 45 villages in Cuddalore and Nagapattinam districts as PCPIR as Local Planning Area under Section 10 of the Tamil Nadu Town and Country Planning Act. While 25 hamlets are located in Cuddalore, Bhuvanagiri and Chidambaram taluks of Cuddalore district, the rest are in Sirkali and   taluks in Nagapattinam district. While 25 hamlets are situated at Cuddalore, Bhuvanagiri and Chidambaram taluks of Cuddalore district, the rest are located at Sirkali and Tharangampadi taluks in neighbouring Nagapattinam districts. The Centre had approved setting up four PCPIRs in Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Odisha and Tamil Nadu. Industry sources said the region would deal with petroleum refinery and downstream products. “It does not have anything to do with oil or gas exploration as the region will be confined only with petroleum refinery,“ an official who preferred anonymity, said when questioned about the ongoing agitations in Neduvasal and   villages over oil and gas exploration projects.
 
 Sources, who are privy to developments, said the state government had identified these areas about a decade ago for PCPIR. A proposal was sent to the Centre and the Union cabinet gave the nod for the project in 2012. About five years ago, the project was expected to attract a total investment of Rs 92,160 crore. Meanwhile, the state government issued a notification in December 2015 announcing its intention to declare these villages as PCPIR.
 
 On the other hand, environmentalists have raised flag over promoting petroleum refineries. Environment activist G Sundarrajan of Poovulagin Nanbargal said the move be would be an “environmental and economical disaster“.“Petroleum refineries will have a huge impact on the ecology, particularly on the coastal ecosystem. This will affect the groundwater in the villages selected for the project,“ he said.Noting that several nations were exploring renewable energy, he wondered why the government is sticking to petroleum refineries.
 
