WARDHA: A feeble Gyanoba Nimbal stands besides a   that water has not reached his fields in last 10 years. There is a breach 700 metres ahead which cuts off our farms, added another   in Wardha district.

 The   Dam built on the   is around 10 kms from the village. Over the years, canals in nearby villages are again filled up with earth cutting off the water flow in between. The projected that started over thirty years ago is still incomplete. 
 
 Lower Wardha is one of five major irrigation projects of the region. Aimed to cover, 52,539 hectares of land, its potential is equal to 20% of the much touted Gosikhurd dam’s capacity. The project, which is supposed to irrigate villages in Amravati and Wardha districts, was conceived in 1981 even before Gosikhurd, at an estimated cost of Rs48 crore. Out of the projected 52,539 hectares water has reached 14454 hectares of farmland so far. The work goes on and the cost has touched Rs3651 crore. The latest hike of Rs1200 crore was estimated in March this year
 
 TOI visited the project site for the second time along with a group of NGOs — Jan Manch, Bapuji Aney Sanstha, Vidarbha Economic Development Council (VED) and Bhartiya Kisan Manch after a gap two years. The visit was part of a review tours conducted under the Sinchan Shod Yatra series.
 
 As reported to the team, by officials of Vidarbha Irrigation Development Corporation (VIDC) present there, in two years the work has progressed by 20%. On the other hand, the cost has gone up by Rs1205 crore. At the time of getting central funds, VIDC had mentioned that the project will be completed by June 2018. Now, it is expected to take one more year at least.
 
 The basic dam structure, main and branch canals are completed since 2007, except minor work remaining in some parts of the main and branch canals. However, 35% the distribution network, which includes minor canals, remains to be completed. As against field channels ultimately connecting the fields, 53,000 farms, those for only 10,000 hectares, have been built. 
 
 TOI saw one of the minor canals which covers 1,000 hectares of farms. There were gaps which cut the canal. This also led to water flooding the fields from the point of breach. Minor canals connect the field channels. A common issue is dogging VIDC projects. The canals have been completed nearly 10 years ago, but have been damaged due to lack of maintenance. The maintenance wing only takes over a project when it is entirely complete and work remains pending in Lower Wardha.
 
 VIDC officials have blamed a host of reasons for the slow down. The work on minor canals has been hit due to slow land acquisition. Out of 252 minor canals, 90 are ready and work is under way for 90. Land will be acquired for the rest.
 
 Availability of funds has been a major issue which has delayed works at all fronts. From 2009 to 2014-15, VIDC faced a drought of funds. This delay led to cost escalation. The last approved cost stands at Rs2356 crore. The estimates have gone up to Rs3561 crore as on March 2017. The new proposal is being scrutnised by state level technical committee (SLTC), with a final approval to be given by the government, said an official
 
 “There may be flaws but there are parts where work is up to the mark also,” said a VIDC officer accompanying the team.
 
 Time lag makes students ‘rich’
 
 Though delay may have dogged the Lower Wardha project, the time lag has also left a section of farmers losing their land for the project, rich. Since last over two years, VIDC has been acquiring land through direct negotiations with the farmers. In the last round of acquisition, VIDC purchased land at a rate of Rs28 lakh per hectare. This covered 3400 project affected persons (PAPs), to whom Rs200 crore in all were given. Another Rs450 crore will have to be spent for acquiring land to construct minor canals. As much as 20% of the new estimates accounts for land acquisition, said VIDC officials
 
 Residents of Daulatpur, one of the villages which had to be taken over for resettling PAPs, were holding on till last year when they were evicted through police action. However, 13 in all the resistance had delayed the project. They have been offered Rs19 lakh a hectare. The PAPs are demanding one crore an acre and six have moved the court.
 
