KOLKATA: After becoming the the national champion of Classmate   Season 9 on March 16,   (15), not only won a grand prize of Rs 2 lakh, but will also have the opportunity to witness the   2017 to be held at  

 A Class X student of Shri Shikshayatan School, Nath has already become a force to reckon with in the world of spellings. Her Washington trip is an all-expense paid tour with a parent.
 
 Having entered top 16 last year and losing in the last round just by five points got Nath even more determined to work harder. “My teachers and parents encouraged me all along. My motto in life is ‘Work hard until your idols become your rivals’,” she said.
 
 Since last year Nath buried herself in dictionaries, various websites and the Times of India newspaper. “Wikipedia also helped as it has a list of foreign origin names including Russian, Polish, Aboriginal, Irish, Gaelic and Polynesian language- Tagalog,” she said.
 
 “During the grand finale, I was confident I would get the words right. I was neck to neck with Aman Ahmed of St Michael’s School, Siliguri but I didn’t lose my cool. The clincher was the word ‘Gehenna’. I associated it with the word ‘Jehannum’ and got it right.”
 
 Nath was more relieved than thrilled after becoming the national champion. “My hard work finally paid off. I expected to win as I had really worked for it. And the victory was all the more sweeter and precious as it was against Ahmed,” she said.
 
 She is eagerly looking forward to the Washington DC trip which may be in the end of May or beginning of June. “We will be attending the Scripps Spell Bee Week there but the rest is a surprise for me,” she said.
 
 Both Sangeeta Tandon, her school principal and Bratati Bhattacharyya, secretary general of Shikshayatan Foundation, wouldn’t stop praising Nath. “We empower our girls at school and she has kept our banner flying high. She is Shri Shikshayatan’s pride,” said Bhattacharya. “Pratyasha is an intelligent, conscientious and self-motivated girl. For the last two years, she has been working hard for Spell Bee. Her focused approach helped her emerge as the national champion,” said Tandon.
 
 
