PUNE: A recent survey conducted by the traffic branch of the Pune police shows that as many as 314 traffic signboards are missing after they were installed in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad areas.
These signboards have been either uprooted along with the pole by local residents or shopkeepers or miscreants have stolen the circular plate showing the traffic sign.
 
 The lack of traffic signboards has been the prime cause of friction between the traffic police and citizens who refuse to pay fines demanding that they be shown the signposts barring them from one-ways and no-entry zones.
 
 The survey was carried out by the traffic police in the last week of April. A copy of the report will be submitted to   (PMC) for their study . The poli ce will put a request to the civic body to reinstall these signboards at the spots. A separate report will be given to the   (PCMC).
 
 According to the report, over 130 P1 and P2 traffic signs have been uprooted, 113 noparking traffic signs and 71boards of one-way are missing from their spots. Former deputy commissioner of police (traffic)   said it is suspected that these signboards have been uprooted by the local traders and residents to facilitate their business and movement, respectively .
 
 It is not known when and how these traffic sign boards were uprooted or taken away .
 
 “The issue is serious and civic authorities, who own these traffic signboards, must install them soon. They have promised to look into the issue. We will submit a detailed report, along with the location of the missing signboards to the civic authorities,“ he said.
 
 Of these, a large number traffic signboards placed in   area are missing from their places. As many as 50, P1 and P2 signboards are not in place while 10 signboards of no-parking and 30 signboards of one-way are missing.
 
 In the city, a majority of the signboards have disappeared from the old parts of the city and from Deccan. Most signboards in Kothrud, Warje, Swargate, Hinjewadi, Nigdi, Khadki, Vishrantwadi and   are in place.
 
 A senior officer said, “Removing signboards amounts to mischief. Local traders want customers to park their vehicles in front of their shops which encourages their business. No-parking boards hamper their business. Local residents do not want one-ways leading to their residences or societies have uprooted them.“
 
 A feedback from the ground staff revealed that the missing traffic signboards cause quarrels between the traffic policemen and the motorists. “Offenders always ask us where are the traffic signboards when we act against a designated no-parking zone or P1 or P2,“ the officer said. The offenders are fined sometimes, but let off on several occasions.
 
