Strokes of creativity are all around. The swipe of a finger, auto-lacing shoes, water balls that will make plastic bottles redundant or dead wrist watches that are making a smart comeback--plastic has never been more poetic and metal never more magical.

 The age-old designing, once associated only with art and craft, is now finding meaning and significance across almost all spheres of life. “From the minute you wake up and pick up your brush to the time you retire to bed, there is design touching your life every minute,“ says  , director of NID, Ahmedabad.
 
 Former director of the Indian Institute of Technology-Kanpur Sanjay Dhande, who is founding a university that has design at its core, said “Our education, curricula, pedagogy and assessment is all outdated.   will have courses like liberal arts, body and mind, creative arts and the like. Even economics and management will be taught keeping design in mind.“
 
 According to Future of Design Education in India, a report by   and  , the market for design in India is expected to touch Rs 18,832 cr by 2020.“Only a fifth of the design market is currently tapped,“ states the report.
 
 A design industry survey notes that 57% of design school graduates find jobs with largeand mediumsized businesses, with small and medium-sized enterprises employing about 17% of the students. Nearly 13% of D-school graduates work for individuals, 9% work for public sectors and 8 % join academic institutions, revealed the survey.
 
 While the range for design is broad--from architecture to businesses to crafts to yoga and even zoos, there are certain spaces where excitement is abounding.
 
 TOI gives a lowdown on areas where designs can be applied
 
 
  | Whether it is designing a toilet, healthcare facilities for rural India, bettering mobility for physically challenged, trollies for railway porters, hand tools for work ers or spades for rag pickers, social de sign is all about re wiring the existing technology to em power people whose way of life can be made better. “Most of the people have a perception that this kind of design is about beautification or style or for the elite. All human interaction is about design today,“ said Vyas. Designing products that can combat crimes also fall in this segment as these are meant to safeguard people.
 
 
  |   would say, “Design is not just what it looks like. Design is how it works.“
 
 And that philosophy is snaking its way through every product, service and experience. The cars we drive, the packages we courier and the machinery we build, design is everywhere. As R Sandesh, associate professor at Industrial Design Centre, the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay , says, “Design is an overarching discipline.“
 
 
  | This is not merely an extension of the age-old profession of architecture and interior designing. Retail experience and fit-out designers are a whole new breed of professionals who understand the impulses and reasons for buying and transform a shop into a space that mirrors the brand's energy levels and ideology. Visual merchandisers and store designers create concepts that deliver on a commercial and emotional level so that customers connect with the brand. Similarly, set designing, stage craft and graphic artistes create spaces for media industry. The demand for professionals who can redesign public spaces like cities, parks, zoos and libraries, say experts, is likely to pick up.
 
 
 | While user interface and user experience are behind the designing of webpages and applications, tangible interaction will explode as surfaces become interactive.Smart watches, your breakfast table, the windscreen of your car and for that matter, even your palm will become interactive surfaces, thus making user interface (UI) and user experience (UX) matter more.
 
 
  | The Oxford dictionary defines this form of art as an unconscious rendition of the mind. It is a library of thoughts spelled out in shapes and forms that help in furthering ideas and concepts of one's mind. Doodles are simple drawings that can have concrete representational meaning. “Today , especially for young people, doodling has become a language and a way of communicating with each other expressively,“ said Nandita Abraham, chief executive officer at Pearl Academy .
 
