PUNE: Savitribai Phule Pune University's senate on Saturday approved a budget of Rs678 crore for 2017-18. 

 Apart from funds for   development, money has also been allocated for student-centric initiatives - a centre for academic guidance, an innovation, incubation and entrepreneurship development cell, and a gender sensitization centre. Funds have also been set aside for disabled students' assistance.
 
 "We understand that disabled students have different needs altogether. For the first time, we are setting aside Rs10 lakh to start a centre to develop services and aids to disabled students, so that their integration is more streamlined, and they find it easier to live and learn in the varsity," said vice-chancellor Wasudeo Gade.
 
 The budget was presented by  ,  's   and accounts officer. 
 
 On the infrastructure front, Rs76.71 crore was allocated for building and development of structures within the campus, Rs19.92 crore for other constructions and Rs14.87 crore for improvement of on-campus services. Funds to the tune of Rs6.39 crore was earmarked for improvement of basic services and development works (besides construction), such as a network computing centre, an IT cell, health centre and printing department. Also, Rs5 crore was allocated towards improving student-related services like hostels and health scheme, among others.
 
 The earn and learn scheme was allotted Rs7 crore, while Rs5.50 crore was set aside for books, and improvement of Jayakar library. Among other allotments were: Rs5 crore for the construction of a sports complex, Rs3.37 crore for improvement in hostel facilities, Rs2.74 crore for sports board maintenance and development, Rs2 crore for a new hostel complex for PhD students, and Rs80 lakh to organize national-level seminars and conferences.
 
 This senate meeting was the last one to be attended by Gade and registrar Narendra Kadu, as both will be retiring this month. 
 
 Besides forming an alumni network, the placement cell of the varsity will be revamped. 
 
 A fund of Rs 20 lakh has also been allocated to help the placement cell collaborate with industry and help students in getting internships and job opportunities. 
 
