BENGALURU: With nearly 4,150 students not being allowed to write the II PU examinations beginning from Thursday, the   is considering amending the   which lays down guidelines for  . The department has received a list of 1,150 students who didn’t get their   and is expecting another 3,000 as well.

 The Act mandates a minimum of 75% attendance to appear for the exams even there’s a medical reason. 
 
 “In 2016, 4,720 students did not receive their hall tickets because of attendance shortage. The Act is clear about it, but principals must also make responsible decisions. If there are any colleges where students are being prevented from taking the board exams due to poor performance, I will take action against those principals. The Act needs some amendments to address the grievances of students too. The department will send a proposal in this regard after the exam,” said C Shikha, director, Pre-University Education. 
 
 As many as 6,84,566 students from across Karnataka will appear for the exam at 998 centres at 10.30am. About 823 centres are in the city while 175 are in rural areas. 
 
 
 
 
  CCTV cameras will not be there at 510 out of 998 centres owing to lack of funds. “The government institutions, which didn’t have funds to procure cameras, have been left out this year. However, tenders have been floated for the same and they will be on board next year. So far, 60% of the centres have been covered,” Shikha said.
 
 The government has implemented the Karnataka Secure Examination System this year at a cost of Rs 1.48 crore to ensure PU exams are conducted smoothly. The measures include surveillance cameras at all district treasuries and PUE offices. The project will also make biometric authorization and barcode scanning of papers mandatory at all district head offices.
 
 “The system ensures four levels of security – surveillance, alert systems to signal police regarding any untoward movement, barcoding of each package of question papers and biometric access to treasury offices. The officials have already been pre-registered for the biometric process. Treasuries have been set up in interior rural areas and they will be open an hour earlier than the other treasuries. Question papers will be dispatched to the farthest areas first,” she said.
 
 
 
 
 There’s a three-week time to correct the students’ details on hall tickets if there’s any error. Many students have complained about their hall tickets having subjects other than theirs. To correct them, principals of the respective colleges must write to the exam centre chief superintendent, Shikha said.
 
 
 
 To highlight their demand for higher pay, invigilators across state will wear black arm bands as a mark of protest. “Our priority is to conduct the exams smoothly but we haven’t forgotten our grievances. After the exams, we will take up the issue with the government again,” said Manjunath K R, president of the PU Principals’ Association.
 
 
 
 
 No. of students writing the exam - 6,84,600 (total) --- 3,48, 600 (male) --- 3,35,966 (female)
 
 No of centres -- 998 (total) --- 823 (city) --- 175 (rural)
 
 No of sit-in squads --- 2,175 
 
 Students can dial 080-23083900 for queries regarding the exams. 
 
 
