
Madhavi Nayak (25) works at a multinational firm in Bengaluru. On her way back from work on Monday night, she was groped by a man who slipped into the darkness soon after. She gave chase, but in vain. A woman constable nearby seemed unmoved when she asked for help.
 
 Madhavi was dejected and angered by the incident, but decided she had to file a complaint.
 
 After hearing the many horror stories narrated by women in the last few days, in the aftermath of the New Year’s Eve incident, she decided that the only way to crack down on such men was to make some noise – because these perverts seemed to have no fear, of women or the law.
 
 
 
 I was walking towards Cubbon Park Metro station on the evening of January 2. I had crossed the Jewels De Paragon junction and was walking down the unlit stretch of Queen’s Road along M Chinnaswamy Stadium. I had been looking at my phone when I suddenly found a heavily built man, probably in his 20s, right in front of me.
 
 Within seconds he had groped me and run away. I was surprised and shocked, but my immediate reaction was to turn around and hurl abuses at him.
 
 I think he was surprised to hear me speak in Kannada. I am a Kannadiga and have been born and brought up in Bengaluru. He stopped and turned around and looked at me for a split second and again took off. I decided to chase him.
 
 I remembered how he had suddenly emerged from the dark. He was probably hiding behind one of the big trees on the pavement. He must have been captured in any of the CCTV cameras installed between gate number 12 and 14. I have a feeling that he had been lurking in the stretch along with his friends because I had seen some other men near another tree on the stretch. When I screamed, they bolted too. I’m sure the camera on Gate No 20 had captured him.
 
 I chased him but fell behind because I was carrying bags and wearing flip-flops. I stopped and asked some of the people near the bus stop on Queen’s Road and they directed me towards MG Road. At the bus stop on MG Road, I found a woman constable and asked her about the man, hoping she would help me.
 
 But she seemed most indifferent and said she did not see anyone, without even moving from the spot.
 
 Eventually, I got on the Metro and went home.
 
 I felt violated and angry after reaching home, and had to go for a walk to reassure myself. People are always blaming the place… the time… the clothes… for such incidents. But I was wearing a churidar, a sweater and a shawl that evening. I am sure I would have been able to teach him a lesson had I caught him.
 
 I’m filing a police complaint in the coming days and I’m pretty sure the cameras at the stadium gates and walls would have caught him in the act. Women should come forward and register complaints against such perverts. Society and law enforcement should support them.
 
 I am sure he must have done what he did because he was sure he could get away with it.
 
