PANAJI:   (GPCC) on Friday demanded that governor Mridula Sinha dissolve the state legislative   and impose  , since the legislative assembly’s meeting has not been convened for six months, which is against the  .

 Citing an earlier ruling by the Supreme Court, Congress said that it would consider approaching the governor if their call was not heeded.
 
 “The assembly should be dissolved. Goa needs to have President’s rule as government employees who were on election duty have been given a month to cast their votes through postal ballots and the current government could put pressure on the employees,” opposition leader and Congress veteran Pratapsingh Rane said.
 
 Article 174 of the Constitution mandates that the governor summon the legislative assembly to meet as the governor thinks fit, but six months “shall not intervene between its last sitting in one session and the date appointed for its first sitting in the next session”.
 
 Terming the development a “constitutional crisis” perpetrated by the current Laxmikant Parsekar-led government, GPCC president Luizinho Faleiro said that the governor was duty bound to uphold the provisions of the Constitution and rule of law.
 
 “The Congress is demanding that the governor should uphold the constitutional mandate and not act as a rubber stamp of the government and fail in her duty,” Faleiro said.
 
 While refusing to find fault with the   for delaying polls in Goa and for keeping the counting of votes on hold till March 11, Congress put the onus on the out-going BJP government.
 
 “The Election Commission expects the Goa government to dissolve the house since it cannot be convened due to code of conduct,” Faleiro said.
 
 Faleiro said the current debate in the state over dissolving the state legislative assembly was useless as the Supreme Court had already given its ruling on the issue in 2002, in a case pertaining to Gujarat.
 
 The Supreme Court in a case known as the Gujarat Reference, has held that Article 174 is mandatory and only when the state assembly is dissolved, and the house kept under suspended animation under Article 356, the mandate of Section 174 cannot be insisted.
 
 Uncertainty over the decision to either dissolve or not dissolve the state assembly before election results are declared prompted the state government to seek advocate general of Goa Saresh Lotlikar’s legal opinion.
 
