GHAZIABAD: With just 20 days left for   to go to the polls in the first leg of the UP assembly elections on February 11, many   residents are unsure if they will be able to exercise their franchise. Alleging inefficiency on the part of block level officers (BLO), several residents said their repeated attempts to get a voter ID card have failed in the past few years.

 Girish Mehra, who lives in Charms Solitaire, a residential society in Ahimsa Khand 2, had shifted to Indirapuram from Delhi’s Chandni Chowk in 2007. A decade on, he is still not eligible to vote in his city. “I had a voter ID card in Delhi but obviously it could not be used to cast my vote here. Over the past 10 years, I have submitted four applications and am still waiting to get my voter ID card,” he said.
 
 Another resident, Aman Kalia, who had also lived in Delhi earlier, said he has faced a similar ordeal. “I moved to Indirapuram in 2009. I have submitted three applications in the past eight years but all attempts have gone in vain. Whenever I approach the officials concerned, they pass the buck to someone else,” he said.
 
  (36), a mother of two, is also in a similar dilemma. She said she won’t be able to make her voice count during this election if she does not get her voter ID card in time.
 
 In Arihant Harmony, another residential society, the maintenance manager is trying to help such residents. “As a last-ditch effort before the election, we are trying to get the voter ID cards for the residents who have submitted their application forms again,” said B K Pandey, the maintenance manager.
 
 Some residents, who managed to get their voter IDs after a lot of effort, but there are grave errors on their cards. “I received my voter ID some days ago. My father’s name is Dalbeer Singh but it has been spelled as ‘Dilbar Singh‘ on the card. I don’t know how it happened because I provided correct information in the card,” an Indirapuram resident complained.
 
 However, sub-divisional magistrate Preeti Jaiswal denied the claims, saying, “In the last six months, lakhs of voter ID cards have been issued making Ghaziabad the biggest Vidhan Sabha electorate. I do not believe that people are facing these problems.”
 
 Jaiswal said several documents were collected along with each of the thousands of forms during the process and there could have been some error. “However, people can submit applications online as well, and they can find the numbers of their BLOs online to speak to them about their grievances. If a lot of people in Indirapuram zone are facing this problem, I can get their forms collected again because we still have more than two weeks before election day.”
 
 
