NAGPUR: Agencies will soon be conducting a   of high-rise buildings around the RSS headquarters at Mahal. Security concerns surrounding   have always been high ever since the   came to power in the centre following which police have been receiving threats.

 With the evolution of sophisticated long-ranged and technology-supported target oriented weapons, security agencies are now trying to gauge the security threat on the RSS headquarters from the terror operatives using the building terraces for launching an attack. 
 
 Apart from commercial complexes, even several local residents were have extended their premises vertically. With commercial activities around the premises increasing, security has become a major concern for the agencies.
 
 According to a highly placed source, a commercial complex which has come up in the vicinity has been a major security concern for the agencies.
 
 A senior police official said that ‘view cutters’ have been strategically installed on the premises to block the vision from long distances including from top. It was also reliably learnt that several buildings have closed circuit cameras installed on their terraces which keep the entire locality under surveillance round the clock. 
 
 A building close to the headquarters, where tuition classes are held, is attended to by students. A local resident felt that any terror operative may come masquerading as a student. Though every residents and visitors here are under surveillance and strangers are closely watched, threats cannot be ruled out,” said a local resident. 
 
 It has been reliably learnt that the   (CISF), now entrusted with the responsibility of guarding the RSS headquarters, have already conducted a security audit of the high-rise buildings around the protected premises along with the surrounding locality. CISF, which had earlier conducted security audit and drill of the RSS premises and it’s various approaches, entrances and exits, had to turn it’s attention towards the high-rise buildings close to the RSS after their numbers started increasing in the last couple of years. 
 
 Apart from CISF, the city police too have conducted a similar security audit of the high-rises which have come up in the close vicinity of the RSS headquarters. Though the security has been shifted to CISF from city police around two years ago, the local cops are still acting as lasoning and coordinating agency. City police top brass too has been ensuring no lapses in intelligence collection and analysis, its learnt. 
 
 Though the CISF is the prime security agency for RSS, city police learnt to be playing a second fiddle here as a supporting role. A local resident claimed that cops do not allow anyone after 10.30 or 11pm to loiter. “If any stranger is found waiting for more than half an hour then he or she is questioned,” said the resident. 
 
 Another local resident, whose residence has also extended vertically, said that the access to the terrace are mostly inside the house but still fear factor cannot be ruled out. “The chances are less but it is certainly possible to target RSS from the close-by terraces,” he said. 
 
