CHENNAI: The city police have busted a two-man gang for stealing at least seven trucks from the outskirts of the city and selling them -including one vehicle dismantled and hawked in parts -following an investigation on complaints from owners of the vehicles in Nazarathpet, Sundaracholapuram, Thirumullaivoyal and Ayappakkam.

 Investigators, who seized four trucks from Thirumalai, 21, and  , 24, on Sunday described the men as skilled vehicle thieves who used a bar-like metallic object as a master key to drive away in vehicles that drivers parked on the roadside.
 
 “They did not have registration certificates and other documents for the trucks and so were forced to sell each stolen vehicle for only Rs 3 lakh to Rs 3.5 lakh,“ an investigating officer said, noting that the money they received for the trucks was just a fraction of their actual market value.
 
 The cost of a new Indianmade 5-axle, 14-wheeler truck, for instance, is no less than Rs 25 lakh and the price of a   FM480 starts at Rs 1.08 crore.
 
 “We received a series of complaints over a twomonth period about parked trucks being stolen at night,“ the officer said.
 
 Investigators probing the cases retrieved security camera footage from three sites in Nazarathpet, Mangadu and Ayappakkam that showed two men on a motorcycle halting and looking at trucks whose owners later reported as stolen. The men appeared to be sizing up their chances of stealing the vehicles.
 
 “Almost simultaneously, we found one of the stolen trucks in a Vellore garage,“ the officer said. “The garage owner said two men in their early twenties sold the truck to him.“
 
 They took cash from him for the truck and promised to give him the vehicle's documents soon.
 
 “The two men also posed as truck owners to sell two vehicles to   resident  ,“ the officer said. “Suresh agreed to a deal but gave them an initial payment of only Rs 20,000. He promised to pay the rest once they gave him the trucks' papers.“
 
 Police arrested them when they returned to meet Suresh to ask him for more money, he said.
 
