NEW DELHI: Why only blame drivers and not hold the road owning bodies and vehicle fitness approval agencies responsible for accidents and deaths? An apex body of drivers raised the question at a parliamentary select committee earlier this week when it was holding consultation with stakeholders on Motor Vehicle Amendment Bill, sources said.

 TOI has learnt that   cited two examples – one a luxury   bus fire that had killed over 40 people in 2013 and another road accident in which former   leader K Yerrannaidu died in 2012. The federation reportedly cited how one of the reasons of these fatal accidents was faulty road engineering and also the laxity on the part of transport department officials, who had issued fitness certificate to the fateful bus.
 
 “They asked why actions are not taken against such negligence and only drivers are held responsible,” said a source. The federation chief   refused to comment saying they are bound by an oath not to share details of the meeting. Sources said the federation has also raised the issue of no adherence of working hours for drivers.
 
 All these years, government reports have largely blamed the drivers for increasing number of accidents and fatalities, though lately there are talks of holding road-owning agencies and vehicle manufacturers responsible.
 
 According to Road Accidents Report of 2016 published by the transport research wing of transport ministry, 2,983 people died last year for bad road condition, 529 lives were lost because of engineering and design fault and 2,823 died because of the vehicle’s fault.
 
 Though for the first time, the government has proposed a fine of Rs 1 lakh on road owning agencies for any deaths due to design fault, the country’s premier road research entity   told the parliamentary panel that the penalty amount is too less. Sources said some of the stake holders also suggested the contractors building roads should also be made responsible for fatalities. In most cases, road builders hardly follow the safety guidelines and so the number of accidents increases on such stretches.
 
 
