PUNE: The Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) will send 15 of its staff members, including two engineers, to Mumbai to learn the technicalities of CNG-run buses.

 On Wednesday, a CNG-run bus of PMPML caught fire suddenly on   near   resulting in a narrow escape for the passengers. Officials of the transport body told TOI that PMPL would want to capitalise on the expertise of BEST ( ) since a majority of buses in the commercial capital run on CNG.
 
 “Wednesday’s incident is serious and investigations are on. A short circuit caused the fire. The bus had commenced its journey at 8.30 am and till 4.30 pm, it had made quite a few trips, covering about 120 km. In the afternoon, the same vehicle made two more trips before the fire occurred suddenly. There was a sound near the vehicle’s engine just before the fire broke out. The engineers have been instructed to find out the cause of the fire,” Sunil Burse, the chief engineer of PMPML, told TOI.
 
 Another senior PMPML official, who refused to be named, also dubbed the incident serious.
 
 “In fact, it exposes the fact that buses, especially those running on CNG, are not being properly maintained and looked after in the depots. If it was in summer, one would have understood. But a freak incident of fire during winter is generally not heard of. And there have been around two to three cases like this in the past few months. We are very strict when it comes to penalising any private contractor if the bus breaks down or a fire happens. But when something like this happens to a PMPML bus, it is embarrassing,” the official said.
 
 The chief engineer however pointed out that all steps to ensure the safety of the buses were being taken.
 
 “The drivers as well the engineers have training to handle different buses but a specialised training will be an added advantage. For now, technical checks of all the buses will be increased and engineers of companies like Ashok Leyland will be engaged even more than usual for the same. The team which will go to Mumbai will be selected in a day or two. We have already held a discussion with BEST in this regard,” the chief engineer said.
 
