GURUGRAM: A natural pond located off Golf Course Extension road has turned into a pool of sewage, making it a breeding ground for vector-borne diseases. Residents and traders in commercial complexes in Sector 65, located right next to the cesspool, have written to the MCG to take corrective action to contain this hotbed of diseases before it causes further damage. 

 Construction labourers in the area have been living in illegal hutments on the dried up pond spread over two acres of land. They live and even defecate in the open, causing the pond to turn into a sewage. It is also being alleged that for lack of a sewage pipeline in nearby villages, the waste is being dumped in the pond, making matters worse.
 
 There are over 10 commercial complexes and six high rise apartments in the vicinity. Residents living in these buildings have alleged that the lack of sewage pipeline in the nearby villages and defecation have resulted in massive pollution in the water body.
 
 “There are no sewage pipelines for slum dwellers, who defecate in the pond. The nearby villages also don’t have a sewage outlet and the waste is dumped into the water body. The area has become a major health hazard,” said  , a resident of North Close, a condominium located on the other side of the road.
 
 In a letter written by the management of a commercial tower in Sector 65 to the   body, traders have complained that the dried up pond now stores waste water from slum dwellers living in illegal hutments on its bed.
 
 Pavni Kalia, a marketing professional working in one of the trade towers here, said, “The area has become a breeding ground for mosquitoes. Our health is at stake due to the existence of this open sewage pool.”
 
 Villagers said that the pond used to be clean some seven years ago. “The pond used to be a source of drinking water for the villagers at one point of time. With the raising of concrete jungles, the natural drains got blocked. Slums tarted sprouting on the dried up bed of the pond, leading to massive pollution,” a villager told TOI, requesting anonymity. 
 
 An MCG official, however, said the area was under the jurisdiction of  . 
 
 “We will send a team to inspect the area. We will do our best to look into concern of the residents. The sector, however is under Huda’s jurisdiction.”
 
 
