MYSURU: Farmers who earn over Rs 50 lakh should be conferred the Padma Vibushan and honoured by the government on Republic Day, quipped president of   party  , dismissing the recommendations of the NITI Ayog to levy income tax on agricultural income as mockery of the farming community.

 Hitting out at all political for turning a blind eye to the issues of farmers, he said, “Parties that have come to power in the past 70 years have all been anti-farmer and done nothing to address the issues plaguing the farming community.”
 
 The current NDA government is the most anti-farmer party and the worst of all, he added.
 
 Elaborating on the three main crises farmers are facing, he said, “The three crises faced by farmers are economic, ecological and existential. Farmers need to unite for this struggle and make their voice heard. Farmers all over India are rising against the current central government, urging it to waive off loans and provide a support price for the produce.”
 
 Criticizing the   government in Karnataka, he said, “The government in Karnataka waived off cooperative loans which was a partial token gesture. Nothing significant was done.”
 
 Blaming loans for farmers reeling under debt and committing suicide, convener of the All India Kisan Sangharsh committee B M Singh said, “Farming in India has been decimated by successive governments and 90% of farmers are reeling under debt. Take Karnataka — Mandya is known to produce sugarcane and the highest number of farmer suicides are seen here due to non-payment of dues, the absence of minimum support price for their produce and due to loans availed by farmers.”
 
 Governments have put farmers in a dicey situation now as they are left with two options — agitate or commit suicide, he added.
 
 The All India Kisan Sangharsh has 175 organizations which have come together to make sure the voice of the farming community is heard. “We’ll organize a mega stir in Delhi on November 20 wherein lakhs of farmers will draw the Prime Minister’s attention to our issues,” he said.
 
 Accusing Prime Minister Narendra Modi of betraying farmers, MP Raju Shetty said, “Narendra Modi’s poll promises were to address the issues of farmers. He has betrayed farmers. If they want to be voted to power in 2019, they should fulfil all our demands.”
 
