BHOPAL:   on Saturday announced the revival of   for classes 5 and 8 from 2017-18 academic session. However, the state has not yet received a green signal from the Union government to go ahead with the board exams, as an amendment needs to be made in the   to carry forward the process.

 In August 2016, the state’s education department had cleared the proposal to restore class 5 and 8 board exams before forwarding the same to the Central government for approval. On March 25, the state government, on it  , issued a press release, which stated that the board exam has been reintroduced for both the classes from 2017-18 academic session. “In order to maintain quality of education, the school education department will conduct board examinations for class 5 and 8 from 2017-18 academic session,” reads the official statement.
 
 In addition, it also maintains that implementation of Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA) will be done effectively with 100 per cent enrolment of children at primary level. “Hundred per cent enrolment of children will be ensured and SSA will be fully implemented across the state,” states the official press release. Class 5 and 8 board was withdrawn long back, paving the way for executing a new norm mandatory under provision in RTE Act that “no student shall be failed from class 1 to 8 in government schools.” This is in contradiction to what the state government has announced, creating confusion among the people.
 
 “For making the move official, the state had to wait for the Union HRD ministry to modify the ‘no detention policy’ under the RTE Act that would allow states to conduct board examinations in class 5 and 8. By announcing it prior to the amendment by Central government has only created confusion among schoolchildren,” said a school teacher, pleading anonymity.
 
 Speaking to TOI, principal secretary Deepti Gaur Mukherji said the Union government is coming up with the amendment in the RTE Act soon. “I think the state government is certain about the amendments to be made by the Central government.”
 
