AURANGABAD: The proposed restoration of five historic city   has hit a roadblock as not a single bidder has come forward in response to tenders floated by the civic body for carrying out the desired work. 

 The cash crunch being experienced by the civic body along with alleged inadequate budget is cited by market players as some of the possible reasons behind no bidding.
 
 "Private firms might be apprehensive that their dues would not be released in time. Also, renovation of total five gates has a budget of only around Rs 47 lakh," said one of the private players, preferring anonymity.
 
 The   (AMC) now has decided to follow re-tendering process with hope of getting the desired bid. Dulari Qureshi, expert member of local   panel, said issues related to poor response to tendering process would be looked into shortly.
 
 "The renovation work has to be initiated at the earliest. The heritage panel during its upcoming meeting would go into detail as to why no one came forward for taking up the work," she said.
 
 Heritage experts have blamed alleged corruption in the AMC behind private players from shouldering important responsibility like renovation of gates.
 
 "Corruption in local civic body is the sole reason behind good private firms not bidding. The private firms having experience in conservation and restoration should be shielded from such elements so that they can executive desired work," said  , history expert.
 
 The concerned AMC officials could not be reached for their comments. Meanwhile, heritage experts reiterated the demand for insertion of special clause that would allow only specialist agencies to take up concerned renovation work.
 
 Fortification wall of Himayat Bagh, section of Neher-e-Ambari, portion of Neher-e-Panchakki, Kala Chabutara, Damdi Mahal, Fazil Pura Bridge, Dargah Bridge and Khas Gate are the eight important structures which have been allegedly received damage beyond repair by the local civic body over a period of past one-year. The renovation work of five gates, which has been announced in the wake of such loss, had raised hopes of conservation of local heritage.
 
 Jafar Gate, Barapulla Gate, Naubat Darwaza , Kala Gate and Paithan Gate are scheduled to get covered under the renovation exercise, which has scheduled financial outlay of over Rs 47 lakh. "The proposed works include strengthening of gates and their colouring along with cleaning in nearby areas," an official document read. 
 
 
