PATIALA: The   (AIPEF) has demanded review of existing power purchase agreements (PPAs) signed between state power utilities and independent power producers (IPPs), claiming that these had been drafted and executed to benefit certain private players in the state.

 The executive committee of the federation that met on Saturday to discuss the present power scenario of the country under its chief patron   quipped that long-term power-purchase agreements that mandate ‘take or pay’ clause should be scrapped and IPPs should be free to sell power in market instead of charging fix charges from state discom, as was being done in the case of Punjab.
 
 The federation said that the Punjab Power Generation Policy of 2010, which was drafted on the basis of a policy adopted by Gujarat in 2009, lacked safeguards and right of refusal and allowing power utilities to surrender unwanted power without paying for capacity charges. The leaders claimed that the policy adopted by Punjab was twisted in favour of IPPs, while the safeguards for state power utility were removed.
 
 Padamjit said that as the Punjab policy was “in force until further orders’’ it can be withdrawn at any time by the government. He said that the Punjab generation policy, which allowed purchase of 100% power generated by IPPs or pay fixed charges for the power available but not required by the   had promoted outright corruption at the level of political leadership. 
 
 Meanwhile, the Punjab State Electricity Board Engineers’ Association ( ) has hailed the government decision to get special audit of the PSPCL’s last five-year operations conducted by a third party. The association has also shot a letter to power minister, drawing his attention towards the various irregularities committed by the management. 
 
 Baldev Singh, president of association, said that the PSPCL was incurring annual losses of Rs 400 crore for the last two years due to non-operationalisation of its coal mine in Jharkhand and this had been compounded by losses of Rs 200 crore due to import of coal from Adanis. In case of the Talwandi Sabo thermal plant, use of unwashed coal had led to a further loss of Rs 500 crore.
 
