WASHINGTON: US President Donald   assured Beijing on Thursday that he would honour the “One China” policy followed by   since the 1970s, dialling down a major source of tension with a growing American adversary.

 Amid increasing concern in sections of the US commentariat that the new president had antagonised Beijing during his campaign, the White House announced that following up his letter to President Xi on Wednesday, Trump phoned him and “discussed numerous topics, and President Trump agreed, at the request of President Xi, to honour our One China policy.’’
 
 The White House statement seemed to suggest that China extracted public affirmation of the One-China policy from Trump after the US president had upset China by talking up a congratulatory phone call he took from the President of Taiwan (which China regards as a breakaway province) soon after his election victory, and suggested that he intended to use the One-China policy as a bargaining chip to extract concessions from Beijing.
 
 China confirmed the development, saying Trump had “stressed that he fully understood the great importance for the US government to respect the One China policy.”
 
 China had reportedly declined to entertain a phone call from Trump unless he publicly affirmed the One-China policy, which came into existence in 1972 after Nixon’s outreach to Beijing, and was formally adopted in 1979.
 
 Although US-China ties have turned tetchy lately, at least three US Presidents before Trump embraced Beijing first before concluding that while it had to be engaged economically, it could be contained strategically. 
 
 In contrast, Trump irked Beijing with withering criticism of its trade and monetary practices, at one time advocating stiff tariffs on Chinese imports and questioning its attempts to dominate the  .
 
 The US president was reportedly counselled to temper the approach towards Beijing by his secretary of state   and his national security adviser Michael Flynn. It also took a five-year-old’s charm to ease some of the tension.
 
 Last week, Trump’s granddaughter Arabella and her mother Ivanka (Trump’s daughter) attended a Lunar New Year celebration at the   in Washington where Arabella sang a song in Mandarin.
 
 The easing of tensions with China came hours ahead of the arrival in Washington of the Japanese PM   on a visit that will be closely watched by Beijing. 
 
 After talks at the White House, Trump and Abe are expected to bond over golf after flying to the US president’s resort home in Florida.
 
 In a separate foreign policy exercise on Thursday, Trump also called Afghanistan’s President   and emphasized the ongoing importance of the US-Afghanistan strategic partnership and his support for the National Unity Government.
 
 “The leaders discussed opportunities to strengthen the bilateral relationship in areas such as security, counterterrorism cooperation, and economic development,” a White House statement said.
 
 Experts have been concerned about the new administration’s policy for the region, wondering whether he will continue to extricate US troops from the war-ravaged country or heed the call of his generals for more troops. 
 
 Recommendations by a group of regional experts from various Washington think tanks called for the Trump administration to engage more firmly in Afghanistan instead of the wavering commitment of the previous dispensation that has allowed Pakistan to play havoc in the country.
 
