MUMBAI: Police have filed the chargesheet in a sexual harassment case against a teacher, which also includes the management of the school and its board. They have been charged under sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act ( ), Information Technology Act, besides   sections for forgery, breach of trust, destruction of evidence and criminal conspiracy.

 The Mumbai school where the alleged incident took place is affiliated to   (CIE). The main accused is a teacher from the school, who has been arrested. Other accused named in the chargesheet include the school’s principal, vice-principal, an information technology executive of the school, its chief executive officer and his sister. The CIE senior manager, central India, also named as an accused, has sought anticipatory bail stating he has no direct role in it. A CIE spokesperson said, “We are helping police with their enquiries. We can’t comment at this time.” Police said they have not arrested any of the school’s officials as their investigations are on. 
 
 In the chargesheet police have annexed copies of the FIR, statements of the victim, her parents and friends, the phone which the teacher used to send her obscene pictures, opinion of a handwriting expert and the exam papers in which the victim’s marks were allegedly tampered with by the school.
 
 The victim, who was studying in Class X, was allegedly stalked and harassed by her class teacher. He sent SMSes and MMS clips to the girl, the daughter of a police officer. She ignored his advances but he didn’t stop. As the examiner of the class, he started harassing her in the examination hall which prompted her to bunk three exams. When her parents learnt of the harassment from the victim’s friend, they filed a complaint. In the complaint the parents stated they filed an FIR under POCSO only after the school management failed to act against the teacher. 
 
 Secondly, when the victim scored poor marks in her exam, her parents applied for revaluation as she was a bright student. In their complaint, the parents also alleged that after they filed the complaint of sexual harassment, the school management tampered with her answer papers. Police have also annexed opinion of handwriting experts.
 
 
