KOLKATA: Kolkatans have always had an undying love for Mughlai and Chinese cuisine, but it has grown so strong over the years that our very own Bengali delicacies have been left behind in the race. `Dab chingri', `betki paturi' and `sorshe ilish' are no more on the `preferred list' of home orders in Kolkata. Instead, biryani, fried rice and momos rule the chart, with dal makhani and shawarma being the surprise entrants, according to a food order survey carried out across 800 restaurants in the city .

 “Unlike other metros, Kolkatans have diverse food preferences. They are open to experimenting with other cuisines. Only 8% of daily orders received on Swiggy are for Bengali food,“ said Swiggy vice-president (marketing) Srivats TS.
 
 RJ Mir, a self-confessed foodie, isn't surprised that Bengali dishes are not much in demand. “We Bengalis are extremely finicky about our own cuisine. If it's `singi maachher jhol' or `sorshe ilish', it has to taste the way our mom or aunts cook. The belief is that the best Bengali food is cooked at home. So why order from restaurants? If one has to experiment, it is best to do with other cuisines,“ he reasoned.
 
 In desserts and snacks though, traditional sweets with an innovative twist are still the favourites. Baked rosogolla from   and  , dab sherbat from Paramount and fish kabiraji from   are enjoyed not just by the locals, but even by visitors who want to savour Kolkata's best.
 
 The pan-India survey that analysed food delivery data collated from 12,000 restaurants has at least one or two local delicacies making it to the top-five food picks in other big cities. While Delhi loves to order butter bun, pav bhaji is Mumbai's favourite.Chennai orders idli, masala dosa is the favourite in Bengaluru and Hyderabad orders veg biryani the most. Only Bengalis savour international cuisines like Japanese, Lebanese, Mexican or exotic seafood.
 
 Pradip Rozario, who ushered in the concept of fusion with Italian and Mexican dishes in the 1990s, said Bengalis were by nature the biggest connoisseur of new delicacies. “If they are fed up with egg or chicken roll, they will give shawarma a try,“ he added.
 
 According to Mir, Kolkata's cosmopolitan outlook is reflective in its taste buds. “We tom-tom with our Bengali `kaalchaar' (culture) but welcome others with open arms. We love our maachher jhol-bhaat but we can never say no to momos and thukpas. If you go elsewhere, you won't find a single food joint that cooks Bengali food the way we love it. Yet in Kolkata, you will find scores of places serving authentic Chinese, Tibetan, Lebanese, Thai and Mughlai. From literature to international affairs, we have diverse preferences, so why not in cuisine?“ he countered.
 
