THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The Kerala Water Authority (KWA), which decided to impose restriction on water supply in the city, is still waiting for a final approval for the state government. Water resources minister Mathew T Thomas had recently announced that the   would impose restriction on 24 hour water supply by reducing the pumping during day time. This decision was taken considering the dipping water level at  , which is the sole source of drinking water for the city.

 The KWA was planning to put the proposal before chief secretary Nalini Netto on Monday. However, the chief secretary was not in office that day and thus the meeting was postponed. On Tuesday, KWA MD A Shainamol planned to present the proposal to chief minister   on the sidelines of another meeting. However, the proposal could not be discussed on Tuesday too. The postponement of decision to introduce water restriction might affect KWA plans to save water till May 31 to avoid a crisis situation.
 
 Based on the current level and water demands of city, water could be pumped from Peppara only till May 16 or 18. By restricting use of one of the two pumps during day time, KWA was planning to save water for another 12 days and thus keeping city safe till the onset of monsoon.
 
 As per the proposal, one of the two pumps will be used from 6am to 6pm and two pumps will be used during the remaining time. It also decided to provide water to high level areas by regulating valve so that areas which get unrestricted water supply during day time. In order to do the strenuous task which demand availability of staff 24 x7, KWA had decided to divert all staff designated for giving house connections to emergency works.
 
 Sources in KWA said that it had taken other measures to control water loss. The authority has stopped giving special connections, which are given for the needs of labourers during construction activities. Now it is the responsibility of contractors to arrange water for labourers. Directives have also been given to disconnect all special connections. Non-domestic consumers will not be allowed to use more than 200 kilo litres of water. The water consumption rate of domestic connections too will be monitored to check misuses.
 
 
