HYDERABAD: Moderate consumption of a blend of oils will provide much-needed  , scientists at the city-based   (NIN) have said.

 The   for Indians, published by NIN, suggests that cooking oils be blended in different combinations to maintain a healthy ratio between polyunsaturated and saturated fats. Only then can “ideal quality fat” be achieved, nutritionists said.
 
 Referring to a report on oils with different percentage of ‘good’ and ‘bad’ fats, published in these columns, Dr P  , head of the department, extension and training division, NIN, clarified that “NIN’s database only provided values of various nutrients including carbohydrate profile, amino-acid profile and fatty acid profiles”. To arrive at a conclusion that a particular oil is better than others for health based on only one variety of fatty acid content would be wrong and misleading, he said.
 
 “Considering that no oil is rich in all the necessary healthy fatty acids, NIN has been consistently advocating for combination or blending of oils to get all the beneficial fatty acid,” he said.
 
 According to the guidelines, antioxidants in different oils will help reduce blood cholesterol. “Refining of oils, though not altering their fatty acid composition, modifies the composition of minor components. For example, carotenes are lost during refining of crude palm oil,” the guidelines say.
 
 “Use of more than one source of fat or oil has the advantage of providing a variety of minor components in the diet. An additional way of increasing alpha-linolenic acid intake is to ensure regular consumption of food rich in this acid. Ideally, part of visible fat and/or invisible fat from animal foods may be substituted by whole nuts and legumes with good proportion of alpha-linolenic acid, which are also good sources of protein, fibre, vitamins and minerals,” suggest the dietary guidelines.
 
 Nutritionists say that plant oils contain certain useful substances such as lignans (sesame oil), sterols, tocopherols (vitamin E), oryzanol (rice bran oil) and carotenoids. They bring down the cholesterol level and also ‘repair’ oxidant damage due to ageing and chronic diseases.
 
