HUBBALLI: The   about   
  need to be understood and implemented much more, if the   on Wednesday is any indicator. 

 A youth, severely injured after being hit by a speeding   in Koppal, died in hospital simply because he didn’t get timely help from the public. The hospital is just a stone’s throw from the accident spot, but people watched Anwar writhing in pain and some even used their cellphones to shoot pictures and videos. None of them tried to shift him to a hospital. According to Koppal traffic police sources, Anwar Ali Ekalaspur, 18,w as a resident of Devaraj Urs Colony, Koppal.
 
 Around 8.40am on Wednesday, Anwar was cycling to the market area where he worked in a tiles shop when he was hit by a bus going to Hubballi from Hosapete. The bus ran over him and he sustained severe injuries. He pleaded with people to take him to a hospital. But, onlookers did not heed his appeal, reportedly fearing harassment by police and the hospital, said eyewitnesses who did not wish to be named.
 
 Some people offered him water, called for an 108 ambulance and informed local police. The ambulance arrived about 25 minutes later and shifted him to the hospital. District surgeon at Koppal Dr Suresh Danaraddi, told TOI: “Anwar was brought to hospital around 9.15am in a serious condition, and our doctors tried their best to save his life, but in vain. His pelvis was crushed. He died of injuries and haemorrhagic shock around 1.20pm.”
 
 He added: “People still fear harassment by police and hospitals if they shift any accident victim. We won’t harass any person who brings accident victims to hospital for treatment and we won’t include their names in medico-legal cases. There are also clear guidelines by the Supreme Court to encourage people to save accident victims. People needn’t fear action or harassment.”
 
 Traffic inspector Ganesh C said, “We got information about the accident and rushed to the spot. Many people had surrounded the victim, but no one was ready to help him. We shifted him to the hospital in an ambulance. I request people to help accident victims.” District health officer, Koppal, Dr Ramakrishna said, “Anwar suffered multiple organ injuries. People need to be more sensitive to save victims. No one will be questioned or troubled if they do it.”
 
 Anwar was the only bread-winner of his family which consists of two younger brothers, sister and their mother. His father died four years ago. His neighbour Hussain Pasha said, “Police don’t regulate traffic properly in Koppal and that causes such accidents. People should stop taking video or photos of victims to upload them to Facebook or WhatsApp and instead help victims,” he added.
 
 “I was shocked to find people recording the incident on their mobiles instead of shifting him to hospital. I offered him water and called for the 108 ambulance. When I sought help from an auto driver to shift him, he refused to do it. Police should educate people about the Supreme Court’s rules about helping accident victims,” said Sridhar (name changed), a degree student and eyewitness to the incident.
 
