From opposition to the chopping of trees to accusations of the CM receiving kickbacks for the project, the proposed steel bridge was in the eye of the storm from the beginning.   took to the streets in protest and now, the state government has relented and scrapped the project.

 
 
 "I am one of five people who began the   Beda campaign, but only one of the lakhs who got it going. It was not only about the steel flyover; it became about the city. I remember that for the construction of the Metro line, when the beautiful boulevard was destroyed on MG Road, I didn’t raise my voice, even when I knew that it wouldn’t cost all that much to take it underground. We didn’t know that we could raise our voices back then. That was like a knife in my back, which made me realize that we cannot let this happen again. Does progress have to mean destruction? After the IT boom, we started becoming consumers of the city. As consumers, we demanded service; we wanted a flyover to reach the airport on time. But we have now realized that we need to be citizens — as citizens, we are now looking at making Bengaluru a sustainable place to live in. Citizens are the fifth pillar (of democracy). Throughout our fight, the citizens of the city have only shown deep collaboration, respect and courtesy — that has been our only tone. Bengalureans have always been courteous, and the courtesy has for long been a part of our undoing. But no more. Tomorrow, if the steel bridge is broken, let it be, but let the bridge of communication and of partnership between the government and citizen flourish."
 
 
 
 “Ultimately, in an elected democracy, the government is just a reflection of the people. We put them in charge of our affairs — they are not gods. So, they make mistakes sometimes, and it is the duty of citizens to enlighten them. We have been silent for too long, thinking that we fulfilled our duty by voting for our representatives. Democracy is difficult and we need to be vigilant. The steel flyover has been a tipping point in reflecting citizen anger and frustration. It is also a lesson for all of us that politicians understand numbers. People need to take to the streets and not just protest on social media.” 
