PATNA: The Patna police have failed to arrest the two youths who molested and roughed up two sisters on the busy   crossing around 6 pm on Thursday.

 Shikha Singh (name changed), 20, and younger sister   (name changed), 16, had gone to the Gandhi Maidan to buy books. The had come on an auto to the Boring Road crossing where they had to take another auto to go towards   where Shrishti stays in a hostel. 
 
 “We were on foot, going towards the place where Pataliputra Colony-bound autos stop. The two youths riding a motorcycle came from behind, slowed down the vehicle and started passing lewd comments. The one on the pillion even touched Shikha’s face and scratched her cheek when she resisted,” Shrishti told TOI on Friday.
 
 The younger woman caught hold of the pillion rider by his sweater. “He grabbed Shrishti’s hair, and dragged her for 40-50 metres as the motorcycle sped,” Shikha recalled and added her sister was about to fall right on the road when the youth left her and the bike sped away.
 
 “I will never come to Patna again,” said a visibly scared Shikha, who studies nursing in Punjab and had come to Patna to meet her sister after holidaying with their parents in Kolkata. 
 
 What has added to Shikha’s sense of insecurity while in Patna is that none of the passers-by came to their rescue. Worse, when they ran to the police’s ‘May I Help You’ kiosk at the crossing to lodge their complaint, the policemen pleaded helplessness. “There were eight to ten men in khaki. They advised us to go to the   police station as they said their duty was to check vehicles and their documents,” Shikha rued.
 
 At the Buddha Colony police station, the sisters alleged, the SI on duty “counselled” them against lodging a complaint to avoid further trouble. 
 
 When a TV news channel reported the incident, SSP Manu Maharaaj suspended the SI on duty, R D Burman, late in the evening. A DSP was sent to the girls, and an FIR lodged on the basis of their statement.
 
 “The girls could only partially note the bike’s registration number: 2418. We are at work to identify the bike and arrest the riders,” Maharaaj told TOI on Friday evening.
 
 Shrishti berates people who blame it women’s dress. “We were wearing full-sleeved woollens, jackets and jeans. Yet the lechers dared attack us. They must be taught a lesson,” said the furious Class XII girl whose dad is an Army officer and mother a homemaker.
 
