NEW DELHI:   has presented a four-stage long-term solution for management of landfill sites to Delhi government ­ starting with flattening the mounds to extracting leachate and gas, to the final stage of capping them aesthetically. After the Ghazipur sanitary landfill site accident, in which two people died after a section of the garbage mound collapsed on September 1, lieutenant governor   had sought advice from experts in a meeting attended by chief minister   and municipal corporation officials.

 Professor Manoj Datta, head of IIT-D civil engineering department, shared the plan with TOI and said that managing one landfill will take 24 months or more and would cost around Rs 100 crore.
 
 All the three landfills -Okhla, Ghazipur and Bhalswa -are pretty high (over 50 metres), while the permissible height is 15-20 metres.“The slopes are pretty steep because the waste is tipped over by the trucks and then pushed over by a bulldozer.The factor of safety is 1. Any external trigger, like an earthquake, excessive rainfall or seepage, can cause these slopes to become unstable,“ said Datta.
 
 “The simplest solution is to make the slopes flatter so they won't fall. But flatter slopes also reduce the capacity ,“ Datta added.
 
 The four-stage solution includes flattening the slope, leachate and gas extraction, toe stabilisation and long-term capping. “When rainwater goes into the waste, it would want to come out. This can destabilise the slopes. The way to tackle this is leachate extraction wells. If wells are put up, instead of leachate coming down the slopes they can be pumped out and the pressure will go down,“ Datta said.
 
 “Also, if there is some gas churning inside because of biodegradation, we can also use gas wells. The third solution is strengthening the toe of the slope by various techniques, like making an embankment. The final solution is long-term capping,“ the professor added.
 
 Datta, however, said that the authorities need to be sensitised that the slope cannot be stabilised within a week. “We can't put a wall and say that the slopes are stable and that people of Ghazipur are now safe. Capping of Bhalswa may cost over Rs 100 crore and the time to execute the project will be 18 to 24 months,“ he added.
 
 The expert also presented the example of the Gorai landfill of Mumbai. “Eventually, the landfills will have to be capped in a technical way .Gorai had been capped. It was 20 metres high and soon rose to a height of 35 metres.In 2009-10, technology involving leachate and gas wells, flat slopes and vertical cutoff walls was used to make the landfill safe,“ Datta said.
 
 “We have accumulated this waste over so much time that we need a huge budget to cap the landfills. We also have to stop gas collection to eliminate fire. There is no fire at Gorai and it will never happen again because ethane has been taken out and flared,“ the professor added.
 
