AHMEDABAD: Craving for power can make people do the unfathomable -- a   member from Ganghad electoral division in Ahmedabad district gave birth to two children in a span of 21 days! 

 Ironically, the woman documented such a short gestational history in a desperate bid to put on record that the third child was born before the cut-off date for the two-child norm was implemented.
 
  on Monday lost her seat in the district panchayat after winning in 2015 elections after   rejected her petition against her disqualification for giving birth to a third child after the cut-off date - August 4, 2005 under section 30(1)(m) of the Gujarat Panchayat Act.
 
 After Rathod won the election, a political opponent sought her disqualification on the ground that her third child - Tusharkumar was born after the cut-off date -- but she had falsely mentioned in her nomination papers that he was born on April 22, 2004. She was also accused of fudging documents in local bodies to establish that she had three children, all born before the cut-off date.
 
 During hearing before different authorities, Rathod placed four different birthdates of her third child, and two birthplaces too. She was declared disqualified because the date reflected in allegedly manipulated registers was April 22, 2004. But the same registers showed that Rathod's second son, Rakeshkumar, was born on April 1, 2004, leaving a difference of only 21 days between two kids!
 
 After the government authorities declared Rathod disqualified for the post, she moved the HC, which stayed her disqualification during pendency of her petition.
 
 During the court proceedings, it came on record that after Rathod's disqualification was sought, her husband approached a local court for correction of birth date of the third child - from August 2, 2006 to April 22, 2004. Though he withdrew his application from the court, this date entered in government registers - in   as well as Dholka municipality. 
 
 The government told the court that the serial number of the entry appeared to have been changed in village panchayat register.
 
 After hearing the case, the HC noted that a gap of 21 days between birth of two children is "impossible on all counts". 
 
