NEW DELHI: Sudden rage claimed many more lives in the capital than robberies or theft, and accounted for a majority of the 127 murders recorded in the first quarter of 2017, a police study reveals.

 While four people were killed during robberies, 'sudden provocation' and spur-of-the-moment crimes related to love together accounted for 29 deaths, it said, indicating that Delhiites were increasingly on a short fuse. Many murders ascribed to enmity, family disputes or quarrels over money were also committed in a fit of rage, police said.
 
 The study comes around a fortnight after TOI reported that murders, a prime indicator of crime, had seen an increase in the capital this year — up from 97 reported till March 15 last year, to 103 during the same time this year.
 
 “Most of the accused in murder cases were known to the victims,“ said   PRO Madhur Verma, adding that there was a dip in murders during robberies.
 
 Verma said the cases reported include a wife killing her husband for giving her a high dose of medicine and murders of petty fights on Holi. One murder was committed using a comb in a night shelter, cops said.
 
 As per police's analysis, rivalry or enmity was the reason behind 23% of murders and sudden provocation and trivial issues are behind 12.6 % of murders. Family dispute was the motive behind 13% of the cases while illicit relationship caused nearly 10% of the deaths.
 
 Along with killings during robbery, road rage murders also saw a dip during this period.Police said just one such case, where a fight over parking lead to murder, was reported. In around 24% of the murders have been categorised as “others“. According to police, this category comprises gang rivalries and killings where the motive was unclear.
 
 In 2015, sudden provocation or trivial issues accounted for 16.64% of murder while 18.67% were due to old enmity and 9.61% related to sexual indulgences and love affairs. Around 14% of the murders were committed due to differences within family and 9.61% were a result of disputes over property and money . Only 9.43% of the murders were crime-related.The trend in 2014 was similar.Only 9.8% of the murders were crime related, as per the data.
 
