NEW DELHI: The BJP has hit the ground running in UP to fulfil two of its key   -- to provide cheap power and free energy efficient pumps to farmers -- even before formally forming the government in the state.

 UP power secretary   will hold a meeting in Lucknow on Wednesday for signing the Centre's 'Power for All', envisaging commitment to 24X7 power supply, connecting all households, supplying up to 100 units at Rs 3 for each household and giving free energy efficiency pumps to farmers.
 
 Though UP was one of the first states to accept 'Uday', the Centre's plan to rejuvenate debt-laden discoms, it refused to finalise the terms for signing the Power for All document, which commits states to improve power management and supply.
 
 This had been a sore point between the Centre and the state government and became a poll issue in the state, with BJP putting the blame on the   government for the lethargic reforms and poor power service.
 
 From the Union power ministry's notice for the meeting, sent to all pertinent officials in the Centre and state, it is abundantly clear that the Lucknow meeting is being held on the prodding from the Centre. Though such prodding has not been uncommon in the past, this time it has worked to indicate a better synchronicity between the Central and state bureaucracies in future.
 
 With an overwhelming victory at the election, expectations of a rapid change in overall infrastructure and services in UP are running high.
 
 The logical conclusion of the Power for All document will give a head start to the state government and show the BJP's commitment towards its poll promises.
 
 Indeed. It will be one more proof that the Narendra Modigovernment's implementation of two energy schemes over the last two years in the state overtook the SP's outreach bandwagon and provided fuel for the BJP's juggernaut in the state.
 
 Speedy electrification of villages, combined with steps to improve power supply in the state, and distribution of free LPG connection to poor households brought about immediate and tangible improvement in the daily lives of beneficiaries.
 
 This established a connect with people about the PM's development politics plank.
 
