KOLKATA: Four-year-old   was playing on the balcony of his first-floor residence when his mother Amita shouted out a warning to step back. Loose chunks of cement had started falling from the balcony even as workers employed for repairs asked them to step inside.

 The next instant, the entire balcony fell down, cutting off the mother-son duo from the rest of their neighbours, their lives saved by a whisker.
 
 Their neighbours   and   were lucky too, as huge slabs of concrete barely missed falling on their heads.
 
 Eight months after a similar collapse of a CIT building at Dhakuria claimed one life and injured two, a CIT building collapse — this time at Chetla in south Kolkata — left 15 people trapped and spread panic among the 20-odd families living there on Tuesday afternoon. Among the trapped were nine women and two toddlers.
 
 Though everyone escaped with minor injuries, some, like Mayukh, had to wait for over 45 minutes before the disaster management and fire brigade officials could rescue them. Amita was rescued first and escorted down the stairs. For the child, the rescuers had to use ropes, ladders and move through thick debris. It took them another 15 minutes to bring the traumatised child down and reunite him with his anxious, sobbing mother.
 
 “I have my son with me now. I could hear him crying even as I was coming down. At that moment, it was heartrending,” Amita said later. In all, eight persons — including two children — belonging to three families were rescued. “I was standing on the ground watching the repair work that was undertaken on the left block after the engineers gave the necessary permissions on Monday. The workers were breaking down the beams to try and put new cement. Suddenly, the second-floor balcony caved in. Within seconds, the portion of the terrace and balcony on other floors caved in. But this was an accident none of us could have foreseen,” Kotal said.
 
 Police sources said the renovation had begun several weeks ago. “Renovation of the right wing was complete. We are ascertaining whether all precautions were taken,” said a Chetla police officer. A team of KMC engineers visited the spot and later held a meeting to discuss the structural stability of the CIT housing complex. According to a KMC building department official, most CIT housing complexes are in a pathetic state. “The condition of some of them is so poor that such accidents may recur any day. Since CIT, the state government, is the custodian of these housing complexes, we have little role in their maintenance,” said a KMC official. 
 
 Mayor   on Tuesday, however, said the civic body would extend help for rebuilding rickety housing complexes.
 
 “We have already decided to give extra FAR (floor area ratio) to owners of insecure buildings. Under this scheme, we may allow the CIT complexes a special offer for reconstruction,” Chatterjee said.
 
 
