SURAT: Thousands of   will throng the Surat airport on Tuesday to participate in the brief felicitation prograame of  , who will make a short stopover before flying to Dahej and Bharuch.

 This will be Modi’s first short visit to the Diamond City after becoming the PM. Sources said that Modi was convinced by the senior BJP leaders including Navsari MP CR Paatil to attend the felicitation.
 
 Talking to TOI, Paatil, who is camping in Varanasi for the last phase of election in Uttar Pradesh, said, “Earlier, the PM visited Navsari for distributing kits to the Divyangs but due to his busy schedule, he could not allot time for the felicitation. This time, we convinced him to attend the felicitation event.”
 
 Paatil added, “PM is expected to arrive at Surat airport at about 2:30 pm and would stay for just 10 minutes. Since he has a tight schedule at Dahej and Bharuch, he agreed to attend the felicitation outside at the airport premises. A tent has been erected at the airport where he will meet and greet the BJP workers and leaders.” 
 
 Sources in the information department said that Modi is expected to make some important announcement too. On the other hand, the groups crusading for increased air connectivity from Surat are hoping for some announcement regarding international status for the airport. 
 
 Member of We Want a Working Airport at Surat (WWWAS), Sanjay Jain said, “During his stint as the chief minister, Modi had targeted the then   for ignoring Surat’s potential in air connectivity and international airport facilities. Now, we hope that he will make some important announcement regarding the same.”
 
 Jain added, “The WWWAS members will be visiting the airport on Tuesday and if the security will allow us, we will handover a detailed memorandum to the PM regarding the airport facilities and international airport”
 
 The Airport Authority of India (AAI) has started the modification of airport terminal building from inside in order to separate the domestic and international arrival and departure and creating of the separate block for the customs facility. It is learnt that a team of senior customs officials from Mumbai will be visiting the airport to oversee the development on Thursday. The AAI has sought the permission from the   (CBDT) for the customs notified airport at Surat. 
 
