KALYAN: Thane police on Thursday arrested six men, including the four main accused, in the brutal killing of interior decorator Kishor Chaudhari who was pumped with 17   over a business   on Tuesday. Chaudhari’s partner, Nitin Joshi, too, sustained a bullet injury in the firing and is currently battling for his life. 

 The dispute was allegedly over a Rs 6.5 crore interior decoration contract for a flat in Thakurli, near  . 
 
 The arrested accused have been identified as Dilip Bhoir (51), his brother Shankar (45), and sons Sagar (23) and Suraj (21), and their two associates Kunal Andhale (26) and his brother Paresh Andhale (22). 
 
 Sources said the four members of the Bhoir family were arrested by deputy commissioner of police Zone IV’s special squad and Kunal and Paresh by Kalyan crime branch unit. 
 
 The Bhoir men were found in a farmhouse in the Kolegaon area of Badlapur while the other two accused, Kunal and Paresh, were nabbed from the Sinnar taluka of Nashik district. 
 
 Cops are searching for one of Kishor’s staffers, Mahima Wilson, who was allegedly kidnapped by the Bhoir family. 
 
 Pratap Dighavkar, additional commissioner of police, central region, Thane, confirmed the arrests but refused to give any more details, saying they will hold a press conference on Friday. But sources said a Shiv Sena MLA from Thane district played a crucial role in the arrests. 
 
 During their interrogation, the Andhale brothers said they were not aware that the Bhoir family wanted to kill Chaudhari. Both said they were keeping a watch outside the flat where the crime was committed when they heard the firing. Cops found that three of the four arrested Bhoir men— Dilip, Shankar and Sagar —had licensed revolvers. Dilip and Sagar used Indian revolvers to fire six rounds while Sagar used a Smith and Wesson .32 revolver. 
 
 Police said they are also checking whether Dinesh Patil who was acquitted in Kishor’s elder brother Mukund’s   case 10 years ago, was involved with the Bhoirs. Patil has been missing after Kishor’s murder. Meanwhile, the Chaudhari family has demanded police protection. 
 
