The finale of reality show ' ' is tonight, and Noida boy   is one of the four remaining inmates vying for the top prize. With voting underway in full swing, buzz is that Manveer is the frontrunner to become the first non-celeb to win the popular show. While fans await results, Manveer’s family, who live in Noida’s Agahpur Village, are so confident of his victory, that they have already begun preparing for a grand welcome and celebrations when he returns. However, they have run into an unlikely roadblock – the restrictions posed by the code of conduct applicable due to the upcoming UP Assembly Elections.

 Talking to NT when Manveer had reached the finale, his best friend,  , had said that Manveer’s friends and family plan to have a grand rally from the airport to Noida on his return. “So many people want to go and receive him at the airport and take their cars along for a grand victory rally, that I’m sure jis din woh aayega, airport se Noida ki road par jam lag jayega. Kisi neta ki bhi itni badi rally nahin hui hogi jitni Manveer ki hogi,” Neeraj had said. However, given that the   district is under the code of conduct for the  , such mass gatherings and processions have been disallowed by the administration. Manveer’s brother, Sachin, tells us, “As per the code of conduct, you can only use 10 cars in a procession. But we have had groups and well-wishers from Ghaziabad, Delhi, Gurgaon and Faridabad telling us that they want to meet bhai at the airport and be part of the procession to Noida. Yahan toh sab hi 10-10 gaadi lane ke mood mein hain. Kaise manage karein samajh nahin aa raha.”
 
  
  Manu Punjabi and Manveer Gurjar in 'Bigg Boss'
 
 Manveer’s family is also planning a grand reception for him when he returns to Noida next week, and are confident that he will win. Sachin adds, “We will be setting up a stage, pandal and throwing a grand bash for bhai when he returns. Jeet kar toh aana hi hai unhone.” But even organizing a large bash will earn the supporters the administration’s ire, as Manveer’s return will be barely a week before the February 11 election here, which is when such gatherings are discouraged for security reasons. “Haan, that will be an issue too, but we will try and ask the administration for special permission to throw the bash. Celebrate toh karna hi hai humne,” says Sachin.
 
 
