Of late Bengalureans have taken the saying ‘Grow what you eat, Eat what you grow’ quite seriously. Many in the city are now growing their own veggies and   in the tiniest space they find and do not shy from showing off their bounty. However, in this growing group of   terrace gardeners, there are youngsters who manage to strike a balance between their studies and their hobby.

 
 
 For 14-year-old Niranjan Girish, it was his grandmother who inspired him to take to gardening. Niranjan says, “When I was young, I used to go to Chennai to visit my grandmother and I used to see her work in her garden. She used to grow several vegetables. That is when I began helping her out and grew a fondness for gardening.” The ninth grader’s vegetable garden in his house boasts of pomogranate, brinjal, strawberry, orange, potato, carrots and several other plants. Sixteen-year-old Arya Pudota too began growing   and fruits at a young age. Arya, who has been actively involved in organic kitchen gardening, took after his mother, who had brought a piece of land next to their home with the intention of having a kitchen garden. He now grows several vegetables such as coriander, spinach, ladyfingers, beans, tomatoes, brinjal and more, most of which are consumed at home, he says adding that the family tries to limit their vegetable and fruit purchase from the market to a bare minimum. 
 
 
 
 Having a garden in the city is a tough task, given the space crunch. But these gardeners have managed to have their own green patch by utilizing every little space they get. Apart from the space, sourcing seeds and saplings has been a worry for them. Kiran Pattar, another young terrace gardener and an entrepreneur from the city says that initially, even he had problems while sourcing seeds. “I have been growing vegetables and fruits since I was a kid. Back in those days sourcing seeds was a problem. I had to go and approach farmers for saplings or seeds,” he says adding that now things are better, given that several ecommerce companies sell all the gardening necessities.
 Though there haven’t been any problems, sometimes the yield is not as expected, says Arya. “We realized that once our vegetables were not growing as they were supposed to. So we took the help of an expert, who said that there was zinc deficiency in the soil. Following that, we added organic supplements in the soil,” he says.
 
 
  
 
 
 
 Arya, who has conducted sapling drives in the past, says that he has received immense support from his school. “I have also created the first recreational garden and given away saplings to teachers as part of gardening drives in my school and try to ensure that there are regular activities conducted that encourage students to take part in gardening,” he says. In addition to this,   in the city are now introducing gardening as part of the curriculum, encouraging students to take up organic gardening. BM English School on Hennur- Bagalur Road, is one such school that has introduced gardening as one of the subjects from first grade. “We have introduced gardening from first grade onwards where each class is given a soil bed where they can grow their own vegetables. In addition to this, they are also taught waste management and composting. From sixth grade onwards, the classes are given a bigger patch of land,” says S Rajesh, Principal, BM English School.
 
 How comfortable are the parents with the inclusion of such a subject in the syllabus, we ask. “Initially we were skeptical of introducing gardening as a subject as parents would think that it would eat into their regular subjects, but after they saw how beneficial it would be for their kids, they supported us in this initiative,” he says adding that now the students don’t mind getting their hands dirty in mud.
 Kiran adds that in addition to the parents, schools must also encourage students to take up organic terrace gardening. “If schools introduce it in their curriculum, it will be easier for the parents to understand and support their children in this initiative,” he says stressing that people should start organic gardening not because it is a trend but to make it a part of their lifestyle.
 
 
 
 
 
