MUMBAI: A total of 17 luxury sedans that rolled into state-run technical high schools some time ago now figure as ‘dead stock’ in their ledgers. But they’re not so, really. Bought so that students could get their hands dirty and understand the nuances of the automobiles, these  , costing around Rs 8 lakh each and collectively around Rs 1.2 crore, have been wheeled away for use by top officials of the institutes and even OSDs (officers on special duty) of state ministers, said sources.

 Among those who have either taken the cars or used them at some point or the other are the director of vocational education and training (DVET), Siddharth Hastey, the regional joint directors of the DVET and a few district vocational officers, all of whom report to Hastey, the OSD to state minister Ranjit Patil, two OSDs and personal secretary to cabinet minister  , and chairman of the Maharashtra state board for vocational education P M Wakade. In some cases, said sources, their family members too have been moving around in the cars.
 
 Sources alleged that often, faculty members from these schools and ITIs are asked to skip class and called to chauffer the officials around. Fuel and maintenance bills are footed from funds provided to technical schools to purchase tools and raw materials, said some principals, on condition of anonymity. 
 
 The state runs 169   (GTHS) that conduct various vocational courses for students who are in Class 9 and 10. Introduction to automobiles is one such course.   (ITIs), on the other hand, are meant for students who have completed Class 10. 
 
 In 2014-15, the technical schools were asked to submit a list of machines/equipment to be procured from funds available under district plans. For the automobile technician’s course, the schools stated they needed petrol cars. The then director of vocational education and training (of the directorate or DVET), J G Bhutange, issued sanction to procure vehicles for an estimated value of Rs 5 lakh each and directed the principals to fill in the shortfall of around Rs 2.54 lakh from the personal ledger account of the technical schools, according to internal documents TOI was able to access.
 
 A source said though the amount available with the schools has to be used for the institute’s development only, Bhutange had diverted the funds for buying the cars. Bhutange told TOI the cars were ordered because the new syllabus demanded them. “In a year, students need the car for one or two months for training. When it was free, I used it for some time because I didn’t have a car,” he said.
 
 Faculty members said the high-end luxury vehicles could not be used for training at all as assembly/dis-assembly was not “practically feasible”. “Further, candidates need to be trained on the working of a basic diesel and petrol engine, which is much easier using cut section models,” explained a teacher.
 
 “Seniors officials first ordered principals of institutes to transfer the newly-purchased vehicles to their offices. Now, since the senior officials are using the vehicles, the juniors too are adopting the same policy, and thus almost all the newly-purchased training vehicles are being used to serve them,” said a principal.
 
 Principal secretary of the skill development department Deepak Kapoor told TOI he would call for the relevant files and ensure corrective action was taken.
 
 DVET director Hastey, who is using one of the cars, and joint directors from his department, who are also doing so, refused to comment. Wakade said he didn’t have a car so was using one of the Ciaz cars. One of the OSDs to minister Nilangekar said he had merely called for the car when he was overworked during the legislature’s budget session. However, a principal of a technical high school said the OSD never returned the car. Another OSD, A Ramtek, too said that he called for the cars only during the assembly session. 
 
 Vijay Mahajan, OSD to minister Ranjit Patil, said the car was in the minister’s bungalow and was meant for any guests who came to visit. “But we will return the car immediately,” assured Mahajan.
 
