AURANGABAD: In a formal meeting between the mayor  , municipal commissioner   and other civic body officials on Wednesday, it was decided that stern action will be taken against   holders across the city.

 Ghadamode said, “The civic body authorities have also decided to get tougher with the people who have illegally acquired the water supply connection from the express water supply pipeline.”
 
 The officials also decided to take tough action against those breaking the water supply pipeline around Chittegaon area, which falls in the outskirts of the city, where some people allegedly break the express pipeline that supplies water to the city.
 
 An   official said, “The civic body has also decided to launch a strong drive against illegal water supply connections after March 31. They have announced “ Abhay Yojana” to regularize the illegal water supply connections.”
 
 Ghadamode said, “A survey will be conducted along the express pipeline that passes through different parts of the city. Those who will be caught with an illegal connection will be punished. Some establishments have allegedly punctured the express line to fetch water illegally for more than 10 hours. It is illegal to take water supply connection from the express pipelines.”
 
 He added, “There have been frequent puncture in the main pipeline that runs through the Chittegaon village on   road. The culprits break the air valves or puncture the pipeline that disturbs the normal water supply to the city.”
 
 The civic body has formed a patrol team against these culprits. If someone is found disturbing the water supply in the city, the team will lodge a police complaint against the accused.
 
 During the meeting, various means to tackle the drinking water problem across the city were also been discussed. The city has 90 wells while the officials have identified only 16 wells with ample water so far.
 
 Another AMC official said, “The civic body has decided to install facilities to lift water from these wells across residential localities in the city. It was also decided that water from these wells will be supplied through tankers at dry localities.”
 
