NAGPUR: Staring at a   object on a hot afternoon, a group of children were challenging each other if the shadow thrown by the object would disappear or not. In minutes, they all were left astonished as the shadow gradually began contracting and vanished in a moment.

 Just like these children, many others present at Raman Science Centre ( ) were intrigued with the phenomenon that took place on Friday.
 
 The activity was organized at RSC as the centre observed ‘Zero Shadow Day’ in the city at 12.10pm. With their faces covered with cotton cloths, the kids were enthusiastic about the concept. Accompanied by their parents, they encircled a platform where wooden objects of various shapes were kept.
 
 Mahendra Wagh, technical officer from RSC, explained them the significance of the day and also how different objects could be observed. He said, “People often believe that every after noon the sun is directly overhead; that’s a myth. Instead, it is this very day when the sun is directly aligned to the city and the visibility of shadow is least as it is beneath the object.”
 
 Children who had participated in the same activity last year at RSC, were excited about it this year as well. But it was hard for 12-year-old Krish Yadav to believe if such a phenomenon can actually take place. He said, “I never heard about it at school. Now that I am seeing it, I am curious to know how it is happening.”
 
 Nine-year-old Mitisha Ganatra said, “I came to know that the phenomena occurs twice a year. Apart from May, it will reappear in July, but since the weather is mostly gloomy then, such a day can’t be observed.”
 
 Giving answers to several queries put forth by kids and their parents, Wagh said. “Such a day can only be experienced in areas between the Tropic of Cancer and Tropic of Capricorn. This means that even in India, places like Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Leh-Ladakh do not witness it.”
 
 RSC education officer Vilas Chaudhari said, “The enthusiasm that the citizens expressed was overwhelming. Not just children, it was intriguing to even adults.”
 
 Astonished by the sight, elderly woman   said, “As a kid, we only knew that every day the shadow would be at its minimum during afternoon, while it is opposite as the sun sets down. But the concept of Zero Shadow is something unknown to me.”
 
