JAIPUR: Tightening noose around those healthcare staff who prefer to reach hospitals late and leave early, health department has made biometric attendance system compulsory in all hospitals which comes under health directorate.

 Health department officials said that they were frequently receiving complaints regarding irregular attendance of some doctors and healthcare staff. Health minister   said that from February 15, doctors and other healthcare staff including nurses and lab technicians will have to mark their attendance through biometric attendance system.
 
 Saraf also directed the officials to make arrangement of biometric attendance machines. He said that respective officials of hospitals will have to arrange these machines using funds from medical relief society.
 
 Directions have been issued to make the attendance compulsory through   in districts hospital, sub-district hospitals, satellite hospitals along with community health centres and primary health centres.
 
 Earlier,   (SMS) hospital has taken the initiative to make attendance of its staff compulsory through biometric system. Such a system is in place in SMS hospital.
 
 Besides, Pali has already implemented the biometric attendance system in all its government hospitals. In this endeavour, Pali has become the first district in the state where biometric attendance system has been installed for doctors, nurses, lab technicians and other staffs in government hospitals. Total 106 biometric machines have been installed in the district. Each biometric machine costs around Rs 2,000 which was procured from Rajasthan Medical Relief Society’s fund.
 
 Officials said that biometric system helps hospital authorities in strictly dealing with staff for not reaching on time for performing their duties. In Pali, doctors and other staff reaching late to hospitals are being given casual leave and they are not allowed to work on that particular day for getting late.
 
 Pali has 83 primary health centres, 21 community health centres, one district hospital and one sub-district hospital. Health officials pointed out that they had conducted sudden inspections recently and found large number of personnel absent which was a major deterrent in providing quality healthcare facilities to patients.
 
