 Junaid Akram offered Pakistani readers to buy them hard-to-find books from Dubai. 
Junaid Akram resides in Dubai and is making a trip to   this weekend. 
 
 Akram, who generally travels light, decided to put his 20-kg luggage allowance to good use. On Monday he put up a   post saying that since he’s travelling to Karachi the coming weekend, he has a lot of luggage space available and will be happy to carry books that are unavailable in Karachi for its residents. “So instead of carrying badaam pistay (dry fruits) for someone else, I have a better idea”, Junaid also wrote in  . 
 
  
 Junaid assured his fans that this is not any “marketing gimmick” and that he would love to propagate an idea wherein more and more people are involved in a culture of reading books. He said he is quite famous and does not require such individual publicity. 
 
 Junaid openly said that if one is an avid reader and finds it difficult to get a certain book in Karachi, he would buy it from Dubai’s largest bookstore   by   and would be happy to bring it over. Also, he asked them to not worry about the price since it’s on him. He believes his little investment will “multiply into more beautiful minds that’ll turn us into a better society”. 
 Akram’s post stirred up substantial interest among his social media followers. 
 
 People from all over Pakistan have been commenting on his post listing out books for Akram to get. The greatest part of Junaid’s gesture is that it generated a large number of people showing interest in trading books to each other. Maybe this is beyond what Junaid had in mind. His one post has stirred up an immense yearning for people who want to make other people read. Junaid thanked his followers for the “overwhelming response”. 
  
  
 
 A lot of people also commented on Akram’s generous initiative. “This is such a beautiful thing you're doing, man! And important too, considering books of the cult/strange sort are hard to come by here”, wrote one follower. 
  
 It is not known whether Junaid’s endeavour has sprouted from the recent Anti-Semitist atrocities directed towards Pakistan or with Pakistan’s bad reputation at the peace front, but he affirms that books have the power to drag the mind that has been long engulfed in darkness. “I firmly believe that if it's there anything that'll take us out of the darkness is books - not roads or tall towers”, Junaid wrote on the post.
 
