KOCHI: As the   in and people prepare for   the   has warned of the risks of  . "During Easter and Vishu celebrations people tend to consume a lot of non-vegetarian food. Hence, there could be a surge in diarrheal cases. However, it is considered as a temporary issue," said district medical officer (DMO) Dr N Kuttappan. 

 The disease, which is caused by pathogens including bacteria, viruses and parasites, spread between people from contaminated food and water. The health department officials said it is likely the rise in temperature and water shortage will lead to the supply of contaminated water. The dietary trend, in other words, should focus on "clean eating". 
 
 Another disease to watch out for is hepatitis-the virus is transmitted through ingestion of contaminated food or water or through contact with an infectious person. Six cases of suspected hepatitis were reported from the government medical college, Ernakulum, said the district medical officer. 
 
 "It was reported on April 10. Doctors, house surgeons and hospital staff were reportedly affected with the disease. Their samples have been collected and the community medicine department has begun an investigation," said Kuttappan. The DMO said an epidemiologist has also been consulted to look into the cases. 
 
 "Those affected with the disease have come from various places. Hence, we are yet to confirm the source. We can declare an outbreak only if 10 or more cases are reported," he added.
 
 The DMO also said that two cases of dengue were reported from Vengola and that they were investigating the cases. The dengue cases were reported after the rains, said district surveillance officer (DSO) Balagangadharan. When it rains after the heat water sources are likely to get contaminated and may turn into breeding ground for mosquitoes. 
 
 The health department has insisted on frequent checking of the water supplied by tanker trucks. "The district administration must take measures to supply safe drinking water in the city and suburbs," said an official adding that chlorination and time-bound cleaning works should be carried out to avoid outbreak of contagious diseases.
 
 Health department officials said there were no cases related to sun burn and sun stroke in the district. Warnings were issued by the district administration asking people to stay indoors and not to go out in the scorching heat. "We have been advising people to drink boiled water and to choose hygienic places to dine," said Kuttappan. 
 
