GURUGRAM: A 22-year-old man was stabbed to death and two others injured late night on Monday in  , when they were called in by a neighbour, the father of the accused, to help bring his son under control. 

 The deceased, Manjit, native of Silana village in Jhajjar district, was working as a property dealer’s assistant in his New Palam Vihar. He used to stay in the property dealer’s house with his father Rajkumar (48) and another assistant, Deepak (29). They were neighbours of the family of the accused, father Pyarelal (61) ̶ a refugee from Kashmir who settled down in Gurgaon in 1989 and recently retired as manager of a private bank, and two sons ̶ Vikas alias Salman (38) and Vimal (30). 
 
 Apparently, Vikas had a history of getting aggressive often, at which time, Pyarelal used to call whoever was present at the neighbour’s house for assistance to pacify him.
 
 Around midnight on Monday, Pyarelal again called for help as Vikas had become aggressive. Manjit and Deepak, who were working at the property dealer’s office, came over. Seeing them, Vikas locked himself up in a room, at which point, Pyarelal called an ambulance for help. When the ambulance arrived, the driver joined in the effort and together they prised open the door to Vikas’ room. “Manjit, Deepak and the ambulance driver were outside the room, asking Vikas to open the door. When he ignored them, they prised it open, at which point, the accused attacked them with a sharp, 7-inch-long kitchen knife,” said inspector Sandeep Kumar, SHO, Palam Vihar police station. He continued, “In the attack, all three were injured and rushed to hospital, where Manjit succumbed to his injuries due to excessive loss of blood. We arrived soon after, arrested the main accused and sent him to jail.”
 
 The victim’s father, Rajkumar, who was also there, though alleged that Vikas’ brother Vimal ̶ who was also present along with his father-in-law  , who lives close by ̶ had caught hold of his son from behind, immobilising him, when the accused stabbed him. Based on Rajkumar’s complaint, an FIR was registered against Vikas, Vimal and Rajender Sharma, under sections 302 (murder), 323 (causing hurt), 506 (criminal intimidation), 34 (common intention) of IPC at Palam Vihar police station. 
 
 Police seized the knife used in the attack from the accused’s house. Vikas was produced in court and sent to judicial custody. Cops handed over the body to his kin after post-mortem and said they are verifying the role of two other accused.
 
