Winning a reality singing show does not guarantee success 

 Picture this: You’re on stage, people in an enclosure are cheering for you and the result of the music reality show you participated in is about to be announced. If you’re the winner, you cut an album or sing in a film. Or at least that’s the norm. 
 
 “As the winner, the cardinal mistake people make is that they think composers will rush to them. Winning a title is a stepping stone. They have to work hard to sustain that popularity and reinvent themselves to keep themselves relevant,” points out Anu Mallik, adding, “The reason you’d find more non-winners doing well is that they push the envelope harder. They have no problem asking for work. One also has to be exceptional to get far. And that has nothing to do with winning a title.” 
 
 Over the last 20 years, dozens of reality shows have been aired on Indian television. These have produced hundreds of voices. But how many of these individuals, that you once rooted for, are active on the current music scene? We bet, not too many. Singers like Sunidhi Chauhan, Sreeram, Shreya Ghoshal, Kamal Khan, Mohammed Irfan, Anushka Manchanda and   are some of the reality show winners who have managed to keep themselves relevant to the ever-evolving music scene. Others like Arijit Singh,  , Antara Mitra, Swaroop Khan, Sharib and   Sabri, Rahul Vaidya and   are torch-bearers of hope for those who don’t always win a reality show. A winner clearly doesn’t always take it all. 
 
 Neha Bhasin is an example of how much a winner has to toil to get far in her career. “A reality show cannot sustain an artiste’s popularity or create longevity in their career unless they are extremely talented. So being a winner or not doesn’t matter. Artistes have to detach themselves from this process and not take their TV popularity seriously once the show is off-air. I feel every artiste is as good as their last work,” she points out. 
 
 Abhijeet Sawant is the first singing reality show winner that one is reminded of instantly but his songs don’t enjoy the same recall value. Qazi Tauqeer and Ruprekha Bannerjee are two of the several other winners of music reality shows who haven’t yet found their footing in the maintstream. 
 
 Singer Divya Kumar, who has belted several hits today, is apparently an 'Indian Idol' reject from 2010 who didn’t make it beyond the first round. When asked whether a reality show has anything to do with the creation of a successful career, he says, “Winners are largely bound by contracts, which at times run into a year or two. In the bargain, they lose out on a lot of opportunities. Play the humble card at all times.” 
 Shankar Mahadevan, who is currently judging a singing reality show, believes that such shows can give talented individuals a positive direction, which if they follow, will lead them to a promising career. “Shows provide talent with immense exposure which kick-starts careers. As such, winning or losing is secondary. It’s the opportunity to sing in front of millions of people which every talent must grab,” he says.
 Meiyang Chang, who was once a participant on reality shows, says, “There have been instances where not only a show’s winner but other contestants have also done really well for themselves. Monali Thakur is an example. Singing brought me to the stage and before the camera, which is my true calling. Since then, there has been no looking back!”
 
  Monali seconds Chang, and says, “Reality shows give you scope to become more confident. Whether you win or not, your craft will never leave you but your career will not be made with one reality show. If you win, you just get a bigger push but that will not shape 
 your career if you’re not diligent.”
 
 Rahul Vaidya, who was a second runner up on a reality show, sums up, saying, “I opted to go after stage shows and not playback singing. Reality shows and playback singing are not interconnected. One doesn’t mean a surefire entry into the other. If you look at Monali as an example, apart from feeling proud, I also feel that it’s that one chance that someone must give you to get that far. There are only that many composers and songs and the number of talented people is far too many. One should always have a Plan B.” 
 
