AGARTALA:  , the principal chief conservator of forests (PCCF) and head of forest forces, has been chargesheeted by the state government based on prima facie evidence on charges of corruption. 

 The top forest official, accused of possessing disproportionate assets, anomaly in use of public funds, corruption in distribution of jobs and moral turpitude, was supposed to retire from service on Monday.
 
 The administrative reform department, under chief minister  , served Talukdar the charge sheet last week. 
 
 According to official sources, the state vigilance department had completed the investigation against four forest officials, including Talukdar, on corruption charges some time ago. The other officials to be investigated were chief conservator of forest (CCF) Prabir Bhattacharjee, and CCFs   and CM Debbarma, who have recently retired from service. 
 
 However, it was the incumbent chief secretary   who took a serious stand on the charges after assuming office three months ago.
 
 PCCF Talukdar denied the allegations levelled against him and said, "A section of bureaucrats have hatched a conspiracy against me on some baseless charges. This is not the first time in my service life that the Left Front government has instituted enquires against me to damage my career, but they have not succeeded. At the end of my service, this is their last attempt to damage my image and status."
 
 According to a report, Lokayukta had recommended that the state government initiate a criminal case against Talukdar in 2016 for his involvement in a Rs 10.52 crore jetropha cultivation scam. 
 
 "PCCF Talukdar and his accounts officer   declined to give any statements and tried to conceal facts and sabotage the investigation," Lokayukta had observed.
 
 Meanwhile, the BJP has held up the incident as proof that the Manik Sarkar government shields administrators accused of corruption. 
 
 Party vice-president Subal Bhowmik said, "During 25 years of CPM rule, the party has overpowered the administration and now only corrupt people are getting benefits from this government, which will come to an end in next few months."
 
 
