NAGPUR: Giving a major thrust to infrastructure development in the region, railway minister   on Tuesday launched 20 projects costing over Rs5,550 crore at one go at Nagpur.

 Prabhu laid the foundation stone for crucial third railway line projects between Itarsi-Nagpur (280km), Wardha-Ballarshah (132km), and third & fourth line between Nagpur-Wardha (76km).
 
 He also laid the foundation for a 134-metre-long FOB connecting all eight platforms with five lifts at Nagpur station, besides converting   into a satellite terminus. The projects were launched through video conferencing in the presence of dignitaries, MPs, MLAs and senior officials.
 
 Addressing a motley crowd of employees, passengers, individuals and members of rail user bodies, Prabhu said Nagpur was centrally located and cannot be isolated. The launch of new lines will also being additional trains to Vidarbha.
 
 “People’s expectations from the   have increased but our infrastructure has not gone up as compared to demands. Hence, we are investing Rs3.50 lakh crore on various railway projects across Indian Railways, and Nagpur will automatically benefit from them,” he added.
 
 The railway minister laid stress on converting all metre gauge lines into broad gauge, besides electrification and strengthening railway infrastructure in Maharashtra.
 
 Prabhu said the state government and railway ministry have already formed Maharashtra Railway Infrastructure Development Company Limited (MRIDC), a joint venture to implement railway projects worth Rs1.36 lakh crore in the state.
 
 Prabhu also highlighted his ‘Mission 41K’, which aims to save Rs41,000 crore in power bills for Indian Railways up to 2025. “Over the years, rate of electricity for traction has increased considerably, putting a lot of burden on railway finances. We have now started exploring feasibility of purchasing electricity from the open market,” he said.
 
 Accordingly, a power purchase agreement ( ) was signed in November 2015 by   with Ratnagiri Gas & Power Private Limited (RGPPL) for 50 traction sub-stations in Maharashtra. The use of traction supply from RGPPL between November 2015 to March 2017 saved Rs800 crore for the Railways in Maharashtra.
 
 Senior officials told TOI Central Railway has again signed a PPA with RGPPL for a period of five years from April 1, 2017. Traction power will be supplied at Rs5.50 per unit as against the present power tariff of Rs9 per unit by MSEDCL. Thus, Central Railway will save Rs2,500 crore over the next five years.
 
 Prabhu informed that Railways plan to increase installed capacity target for solar power plants to 1,000MW by 2020. “This will also save power bills,” he added.
 
 
