GURUGRAM: A 33-year-old man was crushed to death after the hook of a   that was being used for the construction of Hero Honda flyover fell on his autorickshaw on Thursday.

 Sachin was driving the   Sector 15 from Sector 10 around 11.30am after picking up Abhishek Malik when the crane’s hook and a part of its limb came crashing down on the vehicle. Malik, an   of ICICI  , suffered severe injuries.
 
 A family member of Sachin said while returning from Sector 10, he was stuck in a traffic jam at Hero Honda Chowk, where the flyover construction was in progress. He blamed the accident on negligence on the part of the authorities, who should have cordoned off the area or could have diverted the traffic while the construction was going on.
 
 Police are yet to find out which private company is carrying out construction of the flyover, and if the crane belonged to that firm.
 
 Both Sachin and Malik were rushed to Ayushman Hospital, but the former was declared brought   by doctors. Dr Aman Chauhan of Ayushman Hospital said it took more than 20 minutes for the   patients to reach the hospital. “The autorickshaw was crushed completely. Sachin was brought dead. His head was almost severed from the body. The emergency response in such accidents is generally inefficient. Since this was an autorikshaw, which is open on both sides, taking out injured people would not be very difficult. If it were a car, people would get trapped inside it. The authorities do not possess equipment like hydraulic cutters to cut open vehicles and rescue people,” he said.
 
 Malik will undergo a surgery on Friday. He said when he was travelling from Sector 10 towards Hero Honda Chowk, he saw construction labourers moving around. “I had an inkling that something was going wrong. And before I could say anything, a part of the crane came crashing down on the auto. I was trapped, and a part of the crane crushed my foot. The auto driver died on the spot,” he said.
 
 Abhishek’s father, DIG Shamsher Singh Malik, who serves in the Indian Coast Guard, said there should be rules to specify who can operate such heavy machinery. “The construction work was happening during the day. It should have been carried out at night, when traffic is less,” said Malik. Dr Chauhan claimed that police arrived six hours after Sachin was admitted to the hospital. “We found the address of the victim on one of his ID cards, and then sent a person to his home. The body was lying in the hospital. We do not have a mortuary in the hospital, or a room assigned for keeping bodies.”
 
 Yashwant Yadav, SHO of Kherki Dhaula police station, said an FIR was registered on Wednesday after the incident. “Police went to the spot and cleared traffic jam at the accident spot. We rushed Sachin and Malik to the hospital with the help of people,” he said.
 
 An FIR was registered under sections 304A, 337, 338 and 427 of the IPC against the crane driver, who fled the spot soon after the incident.
 
 
