KOLKATA: Negotiations between  , which has been facing a blackout of   since January 6, and broadcaster   failed to arrive at a solution even on Saturday. With the India-England ODI series set to start on Sunday,  , however, has decided to replace its blank Star Sports channels with DD Sports and DD National, which will also beam the matches live. 

 Eager to avoid the wrath of subscribers, who have been forced to go without more than 40 Star channels, Manthan will beam the matches in HD quality on a third channel slot as well. 
 
 Manthan officials said the stalemate could continue for another week, if not more. “Our priority is to get the channels back as soon as possible so that our subscribers are not deprived of the satellite transmission they are used to. But since the ODI series begins on Sunday and we have no option left, we are beaming the matches on the Star Sports slots in the best possible quality. Subscribers can also catch the telecast in HD quality,” said Sudip Ghosh, director, Manthan. The ODI telecast will be beamed on channels 602, 603 and 952 on the Manthan network.
 
 But that would still be little consolation for the deprived subscribers who want the Star Sports channels back. Some, however, are lucky to be able to tune in to the banished Star channels despite the blackout, thanks to local operators.
 
 Behala resident Soumya Basu was getting tense. A Manthan subscriber, all the Star channels had disappeared from Basu’s screen last Friday. Even as he was trying to come to terms with the fact that he will miss the matches, his local cable operator sprung a surprise. The Star Sports channels were back on his TV last Wednesday, albeit on a different channel. “It was a pleasant surprise and I am thrilled. I had called my operator and he told me that the channels are being aired on the sly even though they are blocked by the MSO. But it suits subscribers like me for we were being deprived for no fault of ours,” gushed Basu. 
 
 Several Star network channels made a backdoor comeback in Manthan cable homes across the city this week. Bowing to subscriber pressure, some cable operators tweaked their tools to bypass the MSO block and tune in to channels like Star Jalsha, Star Plus and the Star Sports bouquet of channels.
 
 Asked about cable operators bypassing the MSO to beam the blocked channels, Ghosh said it was ‘technically difficult’. Now, with the DD telecast available, Manthan operators have no reason to beam the blocked sports channels, felt Ghosh. “We are not aware of this,” said Ghosh. A cable industry insider claimed that it was not possible for local operators to beam the blocked channels without the MSO’s clearance. “In such cases, it is the MSO which de-encrypts the channels and allows operators to tap the signals from another MSO’s feed. This is illegal and has been happening regularly for several years,” he said.
 
 
