NAVI MUMBAI: Watering plants in public area is a tedious task, but thanks to   resident Arjun Garad’s   technique, the task has become much simpler. After the success of his drip irrigation system initiated on a stretch of land in Sector 6, he is now looking to install the same in other areas as well. The system which helps conserve water works perfectly in public areas where daily watering is tedious.

 So successful has the project been that he is now looking at replicating the same at a stretch nearby. “The technicalities are being worked out,” said Arjun, a police officer by profession. “In 2015 there were 200   planted and in 2016 an additional 400 were planted. This was done along a 800 meter stretch,” he explained. 
 
 Although initially the stretch was well cared for over time the watering was not adequate. “We have installed the drip irrigation system in my home town in Sholapur and it worked well. After speaking with officials from the Panvel Municipal Council (PMC), I went ahead with my proposal,” he continued.
 
 Together with the suppprt of residents from ten housing societies in the area, Arjun not only procured the equipment, but also the expertise from his own town. The project which cost around Rs 50,000 has been totally funded by him.
 
 Using the water that flows down from Pandavkada that is collected, the water is pumped and flows through the pipes. For three hours a day, the water drips into the plantation barely noticable. “I am eager to install this system in other areas as well. There have been schoolchildren making site visits to the area as well to understand how the system works and its benefits. Hopefully it should catch on,” Arjun added.
 
 In 2015 there were 200 saplings planted and in 2016 an additional 400 were planted. This was done along a 800 meter stretch. We have installed the drip irrigation system in my home town in Sholapur and it worked well. After speaking with officials from the Panvel Municipal Council (PMC), I went ahead with my proposal. I am eager to install this system in other areas as well.
 
