US President   today defended his decision to issue executive orders temporarily barring refugees from seven Muslim-majority countries entering the US by describing the world as being in 'a horrible mess.'

 Facing severe criticism for his decision - both within the US as well as elsewhere - Trump took to Twitter once again to justify barring refugees from Iraq, Iran, Sudan, Libya, Somalia and Yemen for a period of 120 days. The ban on refugees from Syria is indefinite. "Our country needs strong borders and extreme vetting," he wrote on his Twitter handle, adding that the world is in a horrible mess.
 
 
  
 The move to bar refugees from Muslim-majority countries has been slammed by political leaders, economists, social workers and even entrepreneurs like Facebook's 
  and Google's 
  . In UK, while PM   said the decision is a matter of the US government, the decision will not be replicated in her country. "We do not agree with this kind of approach and it is not one we will be taking."  , leader of opposition in the British Parliament, went several steps further by demanding that Trump be banned from UK till he lifts the ban on immigrants.
 
 
 Germany too took a hard view of the decision. A spokesman for Chancellor   says the German leader believes the Trump administration's travel ban on people from some Muslim-majority countries is wrong.
 
 Within the US, voices opposing the move steadily increased. The University of Michigan on Saturday defied the executive order and 
  information of its international students.
 
  
  
 
 US airports and other sites across the United States, including the White House, were expected to see a second wave of protests Sunday against Trump's temporary immigration ban, which a federal judge partially blocked by ordering authorities not to deport detained refugees and other travelers.
 
 On his part, Trump is expected to speak to King Salman of Saudi Arabia and  , the crown prince of the United Arab Emirates capital of Abu Dhabi on the matter. Saudi Arabia and UAE are however not part of countries mentioned in the ban.
 
 
 
 
