NEW DELHI: In a warning to companies trying to create an artificial shortage of   in the market following a price cap on the medical devices, the   ( ) has asked state drug controllers to use their search and seizure powers -provided under Drug Price Control Order ( ) 2013 -to ensure there is no shortage in the market.

 Separately , the regulator has also written to the health ministry and department of pharmaceuticals to ensure compliance. The regulator has asked the government to invoke Para 30 of the DPCO in public interest for stents which will enable the government to direct any manufacturer to increase production and supply to ensure there is no shortage of stents.
 
 “It has also been informed to the NPPA that some manufacturersimportersdistributors are trying to create artificial shortage of stents. NPPA has advised all state governments and state drug controllers to proceed under Para 30 of the DPCO, 2013, if required,“ an office memorandum issued by the regulator said.
 
 Under Para 30 of the DPCO 2013, any designated officer of the government, either belonging to state or Centre, can enter any premises and search or seize stents anywhere in the trade channel in order to fully implement the NPPA's order.
 
 Earlier this week, NPPA capped prices of bare metal stents at Rs 7,260, whereas both drug eluting stents (DES) and biodegradable stents will now cost Rs 29,600.“We are taking all possible steps to ensure there is no shortage of stents and that consumers are not overcharged,“ pharma secretary   said.
 
 He added that any violation of the order will be punished under the Essential Commodities Act or under provisions of DPCO. “The punishment will vary depending on the extent of violation,“ he said. The penalty can vary from cancellation of manufacturing or import license to black listing of a company .
 
 Under DPCO, there are also provisions for penalty which includes recovery of overcharged amount along with a 15% penalty .
 
 The NPPA has also asked stent manufacturers to submit a report on “price revision compliance along with evidence“ by March 1.
 
