PUNE: If you thought cataract only struck the elderly, it's time for an update.

 Manavi, who was born with milky white spots on the pupils of both her eyes, underwent a highrisk surgery to remove cataract at a city hospital when she was just two-month old.
 
 She was diagnosed with cataract within few weeks after her birth. During the course of examination, it was found that Manavi was suffering from congenital   syndrome (CRS), an illness resulting from rubella virus infection during pregnancy. Once rubella was confirmed, additional tests were conducted to ascertain whether other organs in Manavi's body were affected by the virus. The test results showed that she also had congenital  . This increased the chances of complications in the  .
 
 Considering the complications, it was challenging for the doctors' team to regulate the anaesthesia and conduct the surgery on both eyes in a single sitting. To get a better understanding of her condition, Manavi was kept under observation for one day prior to the surgery. Once the doctors had ascertained her condition, they decided to operate.
 
 Paediatric eye-surgeon  , who carried out the high-risk cataract surgery on Manavi at Sahyadri hospital, Deccan branch, said, “Patients with CRS usually require surgical intervention for congenital cataract. Since CRS affects vital organs such as eyes and heart, it is important to perform the surgery in the first few months after birth. As any delay can cause irreversible blindness.“
 
 Anaesthetist and pain management expert Vikas Karne, who carried out the challenging task of administering anaesthesia on Manavi, said, “In addition to severe cardiac defects, Manavi's tender age also increased the risk factors of administering anaesthesia gre atly such as the possibility of a cardiac arrest. The combination of low weight, cardiac complications and tender age made Manavi's surgery a challenging one.“
 
 The challenges in performing the surgery were manifold. “Even normal eye surgery takes delicate instrumentation and very high skill set. And paediatric eye surgery requires even more precise and fine instrumentation in additions to the normal phacoemulsification machines. Skilful handling, precise manoeuvres, compete polishing of the capsular bag (after removal of cataract) is a must,“ Rishikeshi said.
 
 The surgery was performed on Manavi on February 20. “Manavi's visual development process began immediately after the surgery . She will develop near normal vision by five years to six years of age. She will be prescribed glasses (spectacles) to aid her visual development.“
 
 Rishikeshi, who also heads the paediatric ophthalmology department at H V Desai eye hospital in Hadapsar, said, “Early detection and treatment continue to be the key for good surgical outcome especially in paediatric cataract cases.“
 
