Hyderabad: It was a full house at the Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (IICT) on Friday with bigwigs from industry, academia and the scientific community congregating to launch the latest initiative of the Telangana government - the Research and Innovation Circle of Hyderabad (RICH) – in the city. RICH will act as a platform bridging the gap between industry and top notch research institutes of the country to foster innovation.

 Apart from Union minister of state for science & technology and earth sciences Y S Chowdary and Telangana IT, industries, MA & UD, NRI affairs minister K T Rama Rao, the inaugural session was attended by eminent scientist Raghunath Mashelkar, scientific advisor to Raksha Mantri G Satheesh Reddy, India’s ‘missile woman’ Tessy Thomas, Dr Reddy’s co-chairman G V Prasad, Shantha Biotechnics founder K I Varaprasad Reddy, L V Prasad Eye Institute founder G N Rao, and serial entrepreneur Srini Raju, among others.
 
 Former ISB dean Ajit Rangnekar, who has been appointed director general of RICH, pointed out the one of the first tasks of RICH will be to map all the research activities being carried out at different research institutes in and around the city. Following this, RICH will also engage with corporates and the government to see if it can solve some of its problems via research activities. RICH will also take the help of ISB to devise a go-to-market strategy for innovations and work with NALSAR in the area of IP creation as well as protection, he added.
 
 “In the next three to six months, we want to bring more and more research institutions onto our platform. Hyderabad alone has around 50 research institutions… In a year or two, we should be able to launch five new initiatives…,” he added.
 
 To kick start the activities of RICH, the Telangana government will create a ‘research to market fund’ of Rs 50 crore, where the government will contribute Rs 10 crore and the rest will be pumped in by industry and investors, IT secretary Jayesh Ranjan said. 
 
 Ranjan pointed out that the RICH office will be set up at Parishram Bhavan at Basheerbagh and in addition to trying to get more public and private research institutes onto its platform, RICH will also engage with the startup community.
 
 Speaking at the inaugural session, GV Prasad of Dr Reddy’s pointed out that even scientists have to be made ‘RICH’ by ensuring that they hold equity in their innovation. 
 
 KT Rama Rao said RICH wants to change the tendency of institutions as well as government departments to work in silos. “We are trying to combine the capacity of the human intellect that is available in our own city and ensure greater collaboration and convergence to deliver on some tangible goals that we set for ourselves… We not only have the largest number of science labs in the country but also the largest number of incubators... which is around 20. As a city, we have been synonymous with science but we also want to be synonymous with innovation,” he added. 
 
 
