NAGPUR: Many state governments and municipal corporations are taking many steps to encourage people to use public transport by cutting fares, increasing the frequency and the fleet. But   (NMC) seems to be an aberration. Instead of popularizing public transport, the NMC-run ‘Apli Bus’ will see a curtailed number of   across the city on Sundays and public holidays with effect from April 9.

 Confirming the development, source from the NMC’s transport department said curtailment will be effective from Sunday (April 9). DIMTS-Nagpur too has conveyed the decision to all the three Red bus operators about curtailment of few schedules on Sundays and public holidays.
 
 The reasons for this move are many. While NMC’s transport authorities attribute it to the less passenger volume on Sundays and public holidays, sources blame it on lack of prompt operations.
 
 Justifying the decision, a senior official from the NMC’s transport department pointed out that the number of passengers on Sundays and public holidays witnessed a steep decline. “The reason behind is that Nagpurians commute less in public transport on such days,” he clarified.
 
 The decision is contrary to municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar’s statement as he always says full 432 buses should run all time for citizens as all are taxpayers and have a right to uninterrupted services. He had even sanctioned budget for the improvement of city bus operations.
 
 “And here trips are curtailed on Sundays and holiday to save money or non-available conductors or Sundays are a holiday for government officials so what about private workers (who have Wednesday off) who work in industrial areas like MIDC Butibori, Hingna and other areas. The decision may affect their transportation too,” wondered Grahak Panchayat’s secretary Gajanan Pande.
 
 Sources wondered the NMC’s decision and pointed out that the Delhi government is planning to make DTC bus travel absolutely free for students up to the age of 21 years. “The decision was taken to encourage people to shun their private vehicles and use public transport extensively to help the city bring down vehicular pollution,” said the source.
 
 The quiet move, which accounts for the decision to curtailment of more than 50 buses in Nagpur city, will hit regular commuters of the public transportation hard.
 
 The move was taken to handle the extreme financial crunch faced by the NMC. “After taking an account of the financially unviable routes, the department decided to curtail number of buses plying on various routes. Most services to the suburban localities will be cut down,” said sources. Though NMC has permit to operate buses on over 142 routes, ‘Apli Bus Seva’ operates buses on 68 routes, depending on the patronage.
 
 NMC’s transport manager   said number of buses plying on routes where educational institutions and government offices are there, will be curtailed.
 
 Sources said, “In the recent past, government had come up with free bus pass scheme to almost all the sectors including school students, physically disabled and senior citizens and claiming the subsidy amount from the concerned department is a time-consuming procedure, there has been a lot of pending bills. We are in a huge financial crunch now.”
 
 “Patronage can be increased if the bus timings are scheduled, the move that would attract not only the office-goers but also convert many private motorists to commute in city buses,” said Pande.
 
