BENGALURU: It's been a rough few weeks for Bhagya M, a homemaker in Bhadrappa Layout near Hebbal in north Bengaluru. Since the beginning of April, water is being supplied to her home just once a week. “Earlier, we received 
  twice a week. Also, the time keeps changing and we have to wake up at odd hours to fill our cans. It's impossible to manage with so little. We have to get water from tankers, and pay through the nose for it,“ said Bhagya, adding that her children had taken to stocking up on water in their colleges to tide over the crisis.

 The condition is far worse for the nearly 30,000 residents of   (DJ Halli) near Frazer Town in east Bengaluru. With Cauvery water being supplied just once in a fortnight, storage has become a huge problem for the residents. “We are buying large pots to store water. Since large vehicles cannot enter the roads in our area, we can't even rely on tankers,“ said Uday Shankar, a social worker and resident of DJ Halli. The situation is no better in other areas of east Bengaluru such as Pulakeshinagar, Viveknagar, Muslim Colony , etc, where residents are forced to travel long distances to fetch drinking water. With reservoirs drying up, and mercury levels soaring, the prospect of all households in the city receiving Cauvery water every alternate day seems bleak.
 
  (BWSSB), which supplies water to two-thirds of the city, is getting 1,300 million litres of water every day from the Krishna Raja Sagar (KRS) dam in Mandya, though it is entitled to 1,450 million litres per day (MLD).
 
 Pointing out that the conditions were similar to those that prevailed in the past few years, BWSSB chairman Tushar Girinath said, “There is enough water in the dam to manage till June 10. 
  , but we are meeting requirements with 1,300 MLD. Thankfully, some rain in Cauvery's catchment area has ensured continued supply of water from the dam. It's not from KRS dam but its channel Shiva Anicut that we draw water.“ Denying that frequency of water supply had decreased in some areas falling within their supply network, Girinath added, “The 110 villages that have been recently incorporated within BBMP limits lie beyond our network. Groundwater levels have dropped to below 1,000 feet in areas such as Whitefield and Marathahalli. Borewells in some parts of greater Bengaluru have dried up. However, in certain parts of east Bengaluru, ground-level reservoirs are unable to pump the water with enough force, due to which there's a delay in distribution to the end points in these areas.“
 
 Among other measures that the board has adopted to mitigate citizens' woes include supplying water through tankers hired by the board.“Water is being supplied free of cost. However, it doesn't involve door-todoor service. Citizens have to call tankers to get water to their homes,“ Girinath said.
 
 However, more than natural calamities such as drought, it's the distribution losses that that the BWSSB sustains ­ nearly 42% of its supply is lost to leakages­ that compounds problems for citizens.
 
 With inputs from Dhriti Shetty
 
 
 
 
 
