KOLKATA: A roadside eatery set up illegally next to the   near  's residence was razed recently following her instructions.

 Four months ago, Nemai Pal, a businessman and a resident of Bagbazar, wanted to expand his food business to south Kolkata. However, Pal chose a wrong place. With a team of five, including a cook who's an expert in Chinese cuisine, Pal set up a restaurant near Banerjee's residence.While Pal invested Rs 3 lakh for setting up the restaurant, the space came for free. The north   was allegedly lured to set up the restaurant on the pavement next to Kalighat fire station by a section of  . It took him only a couple of days to erect the structure for the restaurant -Sizzler -which was opened in early October. Pal also managed to get hold of a large picture of the CM and displayed it in front of the restaurant.This, sources said, had eaten up a huge chunk of the pavement space.
 
 Pal also managed to secure commercial water supply and electricity connection to run his business. All was well with Pal till Banerjee, while taking a walk in the area recently , noticed the restaurant and her picture in front of it. “A furious Banerjee soon called mayor Sovan Chatterjee and municipal affairs minister Firhad Hakim and asked them to take action against such rampant encroachments on pavements,“ said a source in the Trinamool Congress. Banerjee also reportedly asked the duo how could the businessman occupy a large chunk of space on the pavement, make a permanent structure and start a restaurant.
 
 Chatterjee sought an explanation from the KMC top brass and asked them the reason for turning a blind eye to the encroachment of a pavement near the CM's house. The KMC top brass sent an SOS to a demolition squad owned by a private firm to dismantle the structure. Before that, a notice was also served on the owner asking him to demolish the structure on his own. “The owner did not comply with our notice. So, we had to go ahead with the demolition,“ said a KMC official. The officials reached the spot on January 22 and razed the restaurant to the ground. A visit to the spot on Friday revealed that a team of labourers has been engaged to restore the pavement which was badly damaged following the construction of the restaurant.
 
