GURUGRAM: The construction work for the elevated road on the   — connecting   with   — is likely to begin next month.   Nitin Gadkari is expected to lay the foundation stone to kick off work on the 6km-long corridor on August 14.

 The elevated road will start at Subhash Chowk and go beyond Badshapur village on the Gurgaon-Alwar highway, also known as National Highway 248A. Once complete, it will ensure hassle-free ride to commuters on this busy stretch of 23km-long Sohna road.
 
 After the underpasses at Rajiv Chowk, Signature Tower and Iffco Chowk on Delhi-Gurgaon expressway, it would be the second biggest infrastructure project of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) in the city to decongest traffic between Gurgaon and Alwar via Sohna. The cost of this project is Rs 1,385 crore.
 
 State PWD Rao Narbir Singh said, “Earlier, the elevated road was to start from Vatika Chowk, but now following our request, Gadkari has agreed to start the elevated road from Subhash Chowk. This means that the elevated corridor has been extended by a kilometre or so, which will benefit the commuters going to Sohna or Nuh, Palwal or Alwar, who now have to face heavy traffic jam on this stretch during peak hours.” As per the plan, the elevated road will be built on single poles, which would also make six lanes available for traffic movement, beneath the elevated highway.
 
 At present, commuters travelling from Delhi and going towards Nuh and Alwar take left turn at Rajiv Chowk on NH-8 and struggle to make their way through the congestion on Sohna road via Subhash Chowk, Badshapur, Bhondsi, Nuh and further. With the construction of the elevated road, commuters moving towards Nuh or Alwar can skip the city traffic.
 
 The move will especially benefit sectors 33, 66, 67, Jharsa, Islampur, Fazilpur, Badshapur, Bhondsi and Sohna. In fact, Sohna road is a part of the Sohna-Alwar highway, an important route for Rajasthan and Haryana over which around 50,000 vehicles travel every day. It is also used for transportation of dairy products for Gurgaon and Delhi. Huda had handed over Sohna road to the PWD in 2012. And in August last year, NHAI had declared the stretch from Rajiv Chowk till Naugaon at the Haryana-Rajasthan border a national highway. The length of the stretch is 95 km.
 
 
