VIJAYAWADA: In a strange offshoot of bifurcation of  , 54 engineering streams, mostly information technology and electronics, at various colleges in the state have been discontinued in the state despite the demand for the same is on the rise. Experts attribute the trend to several factors that include shortage of infrastructure, non-availability of qualified faculty and shoddy implementation of fee reimbursement scheme.

 According to the   (AICTE), 19 engineering colleges were wound up since 2014 but the trend slowed down in 2016-17. On the other hand, 73,039 of the total 1,61,461 seats remained unfilled after the 2016 Eamcet admissions. While the lack of infrastructure and other facilities are a few reasons for discontinuation of courses, it is the shortage of qualified faculty with PhD degrees that has led to either closure of colleges or discontinuation of courses in most of the cases, said Pravallika, assistant professor at civil engineering of MIC College.
 
 Specialised branches like mechatronics and aeronautical engineering have been wound up due to lack of stan dards and less demand. Some college managements allege that the delay in fee reimbursement by the government has made it difficult for them to run the colleges with high standards. Despite these facts, there is a huge demand for IT and electronics branches because of the bright career prospects they have, explains B   , principal of   and Management. But, he insists that the students visit the college in person before joining one.
 
 More than the branch or the college brand, the student should first check if the course has enough faculty with good teaching experience. “Engineering is a practical course and the experience and qualification of the teachers plays an important role in shaping the student's understanding of the subject,“ the principal said.
 
 It is better for a student to choose a branch they like rather than simply join BTech after Intermediate because of its accessibility, added Pravallika. Former vicechancellor of   (ANU) Prof Viyyanna Rao said: “Studying just for the sake of obtaining a degree is of no use. Students of history and literature also have good job opportunities nowadays,“ he said. Meanwhile, academic experts appeal to the students all all courses to develop communication and soft skills to fare well in the competitive world.
 
