BHOPAL: This will make your daily dal taste just that much better. A new study has found that arhar or   originated in Madhya Pradesh, and it coincides with the state government’s bid to get geographical registry for the   dal.

 Picturesque Pipariya is about 55km from the hill town of  . MP is the largest producer of tur dal in the country. Several pockets of the state, including Pipariya, produces the tur that is a favourite in the country and outside.
 
 Rajesh Rajora, principal secretary-agriculture, said: “MP produced 10.45 lakh metric tonnes of tur last year. We have started the process of Geographical Indications registry of the Pipariya tur dal. It is a lengthy process, but we are hopeful to have it complete by year-end.”
 
 That tur dal has its roots in MP was proved in a five-year study by 19 scientists from nine international and national institutes, led by Dr Rajeev K Varshney, research programme director of International Crops Research Institute for Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT), Hyderabad. The scientists re-sequenced the genome of 292 pigeonpea varieties (Cajanus cajan — commonly called arhar or tur dal in India). The study was aimed to increase the productivity of tur dal in country so that it could always be priced within the reach of the common man.
 
 Varshney told TOI that the research traced the origins of domesticated pigeonpea to MP. From here, tur went to Uganda and other African countries. The objective of study was to find out its low productivity — why the tur crop is less than a ton per hectare. Bacteria are the main problem of the crop. And its growth and maturity differ from to place.
 
 Just why it happens will be known after the study, which used re-sequencing data to identify genomic regions impacted by domestication and breeding that have contributed to narrowing of the genetic base. 
 
 Pipariya tur has great demand. The objective of GI registry is to ensure that farmers of the state reap its full benefit, say officials, pointing out that MP alone is capable of meeting the country’s dal deficit. “The available literature says tur is the main crop of MP. The state is promoting its production as much as possible,” Rajora added.
 
 Grown on more than 5 million hectares, primarily by smallholder farmers, pigeonpea is the sixth most important food crop in the world. Despite originating in MP, the country has to import it from African counties to meet demand.
 
 Former agriculture director G S Kaushal said the tur varieties grown in MP are “famous throughout the world”. “There is no scientific study in the state to suggest it originated in MP, but there was always the possibility. Now it has been concluded after a detailed study involving experts from country and outside so there is no doubt that tur originated here,” he said.
 
 The study unlocked the potential of germ plasm by re-sequencing 292 pigeonpea lines from 23 countries. It traced the origin of cultivated pigeonpea to MP and migration path from Asia to Sub-Saharan Africa. 
 
 The research identified superior genes of agronomic traits — resistance to Fusarium wilt and sterility mosaic disease — for developing superior varieties/hybrids faster, said experts. It also identified one gene — efl3 — for making pigeonpea “photo-period” insensitive so that it can be cultivated more widely in different parts of the country. This research will allow for comparative studies against other legumes, contributing valuable resources to accelerate genetic gains to benefit pigeonpea farmers and ensure profitability and a food-secure future through effective risk management, they added.
 
