It was July 2015. Ajay Singh, 23, had just started his two-year fellowship with  . His first assignment: teaching a group of 40 children in a government school near Kashmere Gate, Old Delhi. One of his students was Irshana, around 10 at the time. She had been found wandering near the Old Delhi Railway Station in 2014 and the police admitted her to Kilkari Girls Home, a residential facility for orphans and abandoned children. "I couldn't wrap my head around how a kid could just get lost. Were her parents still looking for her…had they forgotten her? These questions kept coming to me," says Singh who started to gather more details from Irshana. Initially, she was reluctant to talk and would often start crying, or go silent. 

 However, over time, she started sharing bits of information. There was a Jama Masjid in her village, a railway track, orchards of plum and mangoes and a "big road".
 
 Finally, a coherent story emerged and it bears an uncanny resemblance to the plot of the Oscar-nominated  . Just like it's protagonist,  , Irshana accidentally boarded a train near her village, fell asleep and woke up alone, hungry and scared in Delhi.
 
 Irshana could not recall the name of her village or district. Armed with some sketchy clues given by the girl, Singh started searching online, an exercise that lasted around seven months. "I started giving her names of places I thought fit her description... One of the names sounded familiar to her and it also had a small railway station. I asked my father, who works for the Indian Railways, for help to find out more about that station and nearby places. We zeroed in on Bishenpur in Darbhanga. But I couldn't be sure until I found her home," he says.
 
 Singh decided to go to Darbhanga along with a local who was well-versed with the area. The village was a two-hour ride from Darbhanga station. "We started asking people about a lost girl child. Most of them said they did not know anything about it. Irshana's father's name was Mohd Shoaib but there were many men with that name in the village. We met a few of them. They would listen to my story, nod their heads and then say they didn't even have a daughter. It was frustrating," recalls Singh, who began to lose hope. 
 
 Finally, a bystander claimed that he knew a family whose daughter was missing. He took Singh and his companion to the far end of the village, to a small hut made of straw. Shoaib was not at home but they met his wife and children. "I began telling her about Irshana while looking for facial similarities. Their nose and eyes did look similar. Like everyone else, she too was nodding along to everything I said, not really showing any emotion. Neither happiness, nor sadness, nor longing. But in the end she did accept that she had a daughter named Irshana who went missing a couple of years back," says Singh. For confirmation, Singh asked if she had an old photograph of Irshana. She managed to find one — it was Irshana. In turn, Singh showed her a recent image of the girl on his mobile. At that moment, the mother broke down.
 
 Singh called up Irshana and handed the phone to her mother. But the woman could barely speak and kept sobbing. One of her daughters took the phone and spoke to Irshana, crying. Everyone was crying.
 
 Happy with his search, Singh returned to Delhi and started the paperwork to send Irshana back to her parents. Last year, Irshana returned to her village. Sometime later, she came back to Delhi to continue her studies. "She has an elder sister living in Sadar Bazaar; Irshana now lives with her and studies at a government school nearby," says Singh, who continues to teach at the Kashmere Gate school. 
 
