PANAJI: Not a single case of dog-mediated human rabies has been reported in Goa till August, this year. This is according to statistics obtained from the directorate of  . Three years ago, 17 human death cases were reported, which drastically dropped down to five and one in 2015 and 2016, respectively.

 The improved statistics are thanks to  , a drive that has managed to successfully vaccinate thousands of dogs in the state since operations kickstarted in 2014. The initiative, carried out in collaboration with the directorate of animal husbandry and veterinary services ( ), envisions a rabies-free Goa by August 2018.
 
 “Rabies is a fatal disease. There is no treatment for this disease, but it is preventable. Vaccination can neutralize the virus,” said director, AHVS, Dr Santosh Desai.
 
 Mission volunteers, along with veterinarians and dog-NGOs, have been tackling the disease by injecting both stray as well as domestic dogs with the anti-rabies vaccine.
 
 “We have managed to vaccinate 70% of Goa’s dog population. This mission has to be carried out in a time-bound manner. Only then will we be able to achieve expected results,” Desai said.
 
 While efforts in rabies prevention are being made, citizens are still plagued with the issue of stray dogs and the vulnerability to bites.
 
 TOI had reported last month that 50 people are bitten by dogs on an average daily in the state, and, since 2012, over one lakh dog bite cases have been reported from across the state.
 
 To control the state’s 50,000-plus stray dog population, the government offers the small animal rescue scheme aimed at capturing strays and sterilizing the animals before releasing them back into their domain. Yet, only 11 civic bodies, who have signed memorandum of understanding with  , have come forward to avail of the same.
 
 “Porvorim is a hotspot for stray and rabid dogs. In the last 45 days, we have caught at least three rabid dogs in the area. Civic bodies should avail of the Goa government’s small animal rescue scheme, but they don’t seem to understand the gravity of the situation,” said Mission Rabies helpline coordinator, Kavita D’Silva.
 
 Local NGO, People for Animals (PFA) has been roped in by the animal husbandry department to implement this scheme at the various civic bodies.
 
 “We are actively capturing and sterilizing stray dogs. We keep them under our care for three days before releasing them back into their habitat. Domestic dog owners should also responsibly sterilize their dogs to control the population,” Sarita Bhatia, from PFA said.
 
 “Goa is a small place, logistics are easy and it is possible to control the rabies virus in case of an outbreak. The stray dog population is being controlled through AHVS schemes, but it will take a while till the numbers decrease,” a senior veterinary doctor said.
 
 “Stray dogs usually bite in   or when their environment is disturbed. Every dog bite is not a rabid one, but the victim must complete the vaccination schedule,” said assistant director, AHVS, Dr Vilas Naik.
 
