It’s just another humdrum, mid-summer afternoon at the the   in  . There’s the muffled buzz of traffic from outside; a few volunteers going about their work and the rescued animals all snoozing lazily in the blazing March heat. And then, just as the clock strikes 3, there is a sudden flurry of activity around the sand pit in one corner of the shelter, with happy wooof-woofs resounding throughout the place. “It’s play time for the beagles...their favourite time of the day,” informs a volunteer, laughing, even as 18 adorable brown-and-white pooches rush towards us, wagging their tails, sniffing us out and begging to be cuddled. In minutes, we get acquainted with all of them. There’s Thatha — the silver-haired ‘grandpa’ who’s seven years old and is a leader of sorts; he’s followed by the brooding Philosopher; and there’s Nalla Muthi, the dark faced beauty who demands undivided attention — we are told. Thatha and co., are among the 40   that were released from a medical research facility a month ago and are currently being rehabilitated so that they can be re-homed.

 
 
 ‘They served humans. They gave their lives for sciences. We owe them a loving home to grow old in’ — read the heart- rending note that was circulated on social media. Thankfully, a lot of Hyderabadis have come forward and the response has been overwhelming. “These sort of adoptions have taken place earlier in other cities. This is the first time we are doing it in Hyderabad. In just about a month ago, 20 of them have found loving families. this is a great sign,” says Archana, one of the volunteers who is taking care of this batch of beagles in the age group of 3 and 7 years. 
 And while they are biding their time at the shelter, they are slowly learning getting over the hurdle of trusting human beings again. They were, after all, used as subjects by human scientists.
 
 
 
 From the labs to the shelter and then to their homes, the journey has been a very exhausting one for these pooches, but they have been handling it like champs, say the volunteers. “In the labs, they were confined to their metal cages; their own separate enclosures. Social interaction was next to nil. Here, although they are still kept in separate enclosures so that their dietary and medicinal requirements can be taken care of, the one massive change for them is that they have an outdoor space where they can come out and spend time with each other in the open. While some of them showed quick improvement, a few of them still freeze at the sight of a human beings. The key to successfully rehabilitating them is to give them time and be patient,” explains Anusha, another volunteer.
 
 
 
 Most adopters believe that they are chosen by their beagle; not the other way around. Natalie Elliot and her parents, who now have the beautiful companionship of Baxter, say that they went in wanting a younger beagle, but came back home with the guy who chose them. “We went in looking for younger beagles. But the one we liked, did not seem to like us much. So we waited there spending some time with all of them. And then arrived Baxter, who seated himself between my dad’s legs and refused to move. And we knew we had the guy we were taking home!” 
 And once home, Natalie says, “Baxter looked like he knew our house. He walked around majestically, like a lion inspecting his space. He also got along really well with my desi dog Quincy. They hit it off instantly. And he also managed to win over the two cats that my parents live with.”
 Dr Shruthi and Anurag too have similar story of being chosen as the parents to the beagle boy, they now call Captain Kepler. “We went with our pomeranian for the meet and greet at the shelter. And there was this one guy who gravitated towards us immediately and he had an instant connection with our 10-year-old pom too. And that sealed the deal for us, and we brought Captain Kepler home on Shivratri,” says Dr Shruthi, who now calls 
 herself “lucky to have Captain in her life”.
 
 
 
 Of the 20 beagles who’ve already found their families, there is one adoption case that stands out in particular. It is that of Madhapur residents Keerthika Rajaram and Swathi PN, who brought their Beaga, back to life from her death bed. Keerthi says, “Since Swathi has experience with fostering, we were approached to help this girl recover. She was having trouble recuperating and refused to eat for many days even after she came home to us. We feared the worst. But when my colleagues heard about her, they asked me to bring her to office so that she could also meet more human beings. They thought that it would perhaps help raise her spirits. And it worked! She improved. She began eating and got healthier day by day. And I just called the volunteers and asked them if we could adopt her and luckily, we were allowed to do so. She is now a healthy, happy dog who is living with us. We call her ‘Beaga’ because when we named her during fostering her we did not think much of a name; we just needed a name to call her by and now it seems to work just fine! (laughs)” 
 
 
 
 While a lot of adopters are coming forward to take the remaining 18 beagles home, there are strict adoption policies in place to ensure that they are given away to loving homes and most importantly, to a ‘forever family’. “We have an application that has about 45 questions. These questions are designed in a way to make the adopters stop and think, ‘Am I ready for a lifelong commitment?’ ‘Will I be able to provide the support my dog needs?’ and so on. The crucial thing is that we are looking at   and loving homes. Once that application is processed, our counsellors contact the adopters on the phone and they are encouraged to ask us questions to clear any doubts they have. If they get through that step as well, then there is the meet and greet, which requires the whole family to come down to the shelter. This way we are able to gauge if all the family members are on board the decision decision to take the dog home, and are ready to take on certain challenges they could face,” explains a volunteer. 
 
 
 
 “Since they have lived all their lives in labs, they aren’t toilet trained neither are they leash trained. So, even though you might be taking an adult dog home, you will have treat him/her like a puppy,” says Anusha, adding, “In the labs, they were on a diet of dry pellets. But these guys are quite the foodies. We’ve been getting calls from the adopters saying that they are showing interest in odd food items like bananas! We tell them there is nothing to worry about because beagles are quite the foodies, but new foods must be introduced gradually. A weight gain must be kept under check to ensure that they are within healthy limits.” 
 
 
