NEW DELHI: The   asked the   ( ) on Wednesday whether the body could ask qazis to ascertain from every woman prior to preparing the nikahnama whether she would give consent to her husband having the right to instant divorce through  .

 The apex court took note of the Muslim personal law board’s written submission on Tuesday that women had the right to insist against the use of triple talaq in the nikahnama.
 
 A bench of Chief Justice JS Khehar and Justices Kurian Joseph, R F Nariman, U U Lalit and Abdul Nazeer asked its counsel  : “Can AIMPLB tell qazis to advise every woman to put her considered and uninfluenced decision on use of triple talaq by her would-be husband? Can AIMPLB pass a resolution to this effect and ask qazis to incorporate her decision in the nikahnama?” Sibal said he would get back with AIMPLB’s response.
 
 Sibal continued his arguments in the same vein —triple talaq is a personal law custom which has been in use for the last 1,400 years and it was beyond the purview of courts to test its constitutional validity. Referring to a survey that took 300 divorces into account from a community as large as 160 million, Sibal tried his best to dissuade the court from determining the validity of triple talaq, saying it was rarely employed to end marital relations.
 
 “Triple talaq is practised by a minuscule number in the Muslim community. The issue we are discussing is a dying practice. But, if a secular Supreme Court takes it up suo motu and the government stands up to say all personal law practices needed to be adjudicated by the court, then the community, despite gradually giving up such practices, would take a rigid stand to protect its customs and beliefs. It is not a question of right or wrong. There are a mosaic of divergent views. What we say is court is not the forum to take a decision.” Sibal said: “The Muslim community’s faith of 67 years in the court is fundamental. It is this faith which makes the country vibrant. With that faith we have come to this court. We see a golden eagle flying high in the sky. She sees small nests. It is the comfort of these nests that is essential to the survival of small birds. Minorities lie within the comfort of these nests. Let them not be threatened by the golden eagle,” Sibal said, indirectly pitching it as a majoritarian government’s attempts to intrude into personal law practices.
 
 Attorney general Mukul Rohatgi put forth a strong rejoinder refuting AIMPLB’s religion-driven arguments to stress on the touchstone of constitutional morality — gender justice and equality for Muslim women. Rohatgi said: “The issue should not be seen from the prism of majority vs minority. It is not so. It is an intra-minority issue in which there is a tussle between women and men for right to equality and gender justice in marriage. This is a tussle between haves and have-nots where men being more educated, more powerful, and having more source of income are depriving women [of] their rights.”
 
 The arguments are likely to conclude on Thursday.
 
 
