JAIPUR: In yet another move towards keeping private schools’ fees under check, the state cabinet approved the draft of   (regulation of fee) Rules, 2016, on Monday. The cabinet also granted nod to competitive bidding for disinvestment of Kalisindh thermal power plant’s (KTPP) units 1 and 2, creation of posts for Yoga and Naturopathy medical officers at all 33 districts and postponement of urban regularization camps (Mukhya Mantri  ) that were to be held from January 21. The cabinet approved to scrap 235 appropriation Acts that had become obsolete.

 Briefing about the cabinet decisions, parliamentary affairs minister   said every private school would now have to constitute a Parent-Teacher Association (PTA) by inviting applications from parents to be its members and then selecting at least five parents through a lottery system. The PTA, which would include representatives from school administration and teachers, would determine the school’s fee. Presence of minimum four PTA members, including two representatives of parents, would be mandatory for PTA meetings.
 
 “Appeal against the fee fixed by school-level committee could be made before the sub-divisional fee regulation committee. Further appeals could be made before the committees at divisional and state levels,” Rathore said.
 
 Considering the Rajasthan high court’s latest order asking the state government to maintain sanctity of cities’ master plans, the cabinet decided to postpone the urban regularization camps that were proposed to be held all over the state from January 21. “We are studying the high court order,” the minister said. The cabinet, though, approved allotment of 12,500-sq m land to   in city’s Vaishali Nagar.
 
 Rathore said, as part of disinvestments of the thermal power plants approved by the cabinet earlier, it was decided on Monday to allow competitive bidding for two units of 600-MW each of the KTPP. “Cabinet approved disinvestment of KTPP’s units 1 and 2 (600-MW each) and super critical units 3 and 4 (660-MW each) on February 23, 2016. As per R V   report, it has now been decided to disinvest units 3 and 4 separately,” said Rathore.
 
 The minister said that as per budget announcement to open Yoga and Naturopathy clinics in all 33 districts of the state, the cabinet creation of posts for Yoga and Naturopathy medical officers on Monday. The cabinet also approved amendments to allow study leaves to Ayurveda medical officers and to recruit psychological counsellors in place of psychiatric social workers.
 
