Mumbai: Protecting the green cover of   has united the citizens and activists of  , which covers Goregaon east and west and parts of Malad and Oshiwara. 

 The ward located in western suburbs now has one more key focus: Make the newly inaugurated Ram Mandir Railway station free of hawkers. Civic officials regularly make rounds to ensure that illegal vendors do not set up business outside the station premises. 
 
 Though the ward struggles with the usual civic problems of illegal parking and slum encroachment, it fares better compared to other administrative wards. “The BMC has provided good roads, gardens and other amenities to citizens in P-South ward,” said former mayor and Shiv Sena MLA Sunil Prabhu, who is also a local corporator as he didn’t give up his post after winning the MLA election. “Traffic congestion and hawkers are some of the issues plaguing the area, but protecting Aarey’s greenery has always been a key issue. We have decided to construct the Goregon-Mulund Link Road underground instead of an elevated road to save Aarey, but the state is destroying trees to make space for a Metro car shed,” he added.
 
 Locals agree that there’s a need to save the ‘green lungs’ of the area. “I live in Oshiwara where the temperature stay cool because of the breeze from Aarey,” said Save Aarey campaigner Rishi Agarwal.
 
 For the civic administration, Aarey is the most complicated issue of the ward for another reason: They have maintain the pathway for 22 adivasi padas (villages), repair toilets, provide additional power supply to civic schools and make arrangements for sewage disposal. The BMC has to complete 135 such works inside Aarey, but cannot do so as it is awaiting no-objection certificate from the Aarey Colony authority—which comes under the state government.
 
  has reduced to some extent in Goregaon since the opening of Mrinal Gore flyover, which links Western Express Highway and S V Road, in April 2016. The BMC has also razed 200 structures to make way for the proposed work to take one arm of the flyover up to Link Road, connecting it to the highway.
 
 Pointing out the pathetic condition of the civic hospitals in P-South ward, Congress corporator Kiran Patel said, “Despite having good hospital and maternity home properties, they are poorly managed and face shortage of doctors.”
 
