AHMEDABAD: The   on the social and general sector observed that the state has not been following norms for disposal of bio-medical waste. The report slammed Gujarat Pollution Control Board “for having no information about the quantity of such hazardous waste”.

 The auditor found that a separate storage room for   was not available at 42 of 67 healthcare establishments. At a community health centre (CHC) in Sanand town of Ahmedabad district, the toilet for the disabled was being used as a storage room for biomedical waste.
 
  During the CAG audit, it was noticed that waste was fed to the incinerator manually, which poses a risk to the person handling the biomedical waste. Protectives equipment was not used during the disposal or transportation of the biomedical waste.
 
 The auditor observed that GPCB had not conducted a survey to identify the number of veterinary institutions in the state, except for Surat district. As a result, GPCB had no information about the amount of biomedical waste generated and disposed of by these.
 
 Slamming the 108 emergency ambulance service, the CAG report said that biomedical waste was either being disposed of in containers meant for general waste being collected by civic bodies, or was being burnt in the open instead of being handed over to the nearest hospital.
 
 It was observed that segregation of biomedical waste was not done at 28 of 40 community health centres (CHCs) and six civil hospitals audited by the CAG team. On visits to these establishments, it was observed that needles were not mutilated and mutilating devices were not functional. Sharp items were not disinfected with sodium hypochlorite. Biomedical waste was not kept in appropriately coloured bags as required under the biomedical waste rules.
 
 The CAG report says that instances of burning biomedical waste with municipal waste were reported. Cows were seen grazing on mixed waste at 23 healthcare establishments.
 
 Biomedical waste were being disposed of at open sites, in contravention of waste rules which could have an adverse effect on human life and the environment. Biomedical waste can spread infection and could potentially be  
 
