BENGALURU: The   on Wednesday observed that the July 14, 2017 consensual agreement entered into by the government and the secretary of   (KPCF) and the corrigendum issued by the authorities three days later (July 17) limiting   (OCI) students to   category run counter to the July 7 order passed by a division bench on   students.

 A division bench headed by Justice Jayant Patel made this observation while directing the   (KEA) to issue a clarification that the students who have applied in the capacity of OCI cardholders or PIOs are also to be considered, in accordance with the July 7 order, for admission under categories other than government and NRI seats.
 
 The bench warned KEA that if the clarification is not issued, it'd further aggravate the contempt case against accused no. 2 (  , executive director of KEA) apart from accused no. 1 (Manjula V , secretary , higher education, medical education wing) .
 
 “Such corrigendum on the part of the government ex facie runs not only counter to but is in breach of the order of this court and it may also be termed as overreaching the judicial order. The second reason is that the so-called consensual agreement was entered into on July 14, after this court passed the order on July 7. The third reason is that once this court had made observations for consideration of the cases of OCI cardholders for eligibility under categories other than government and NRI seats, it was neither permissible nor open to the government to enter into such an agreement which would frustrate the enforcement and implementation of the order of this court,“ the bench observed. During the hearing, additional advocate general A S Ponnanna informed the court that the government has entered into a consensual agreement as per Section 4A of the Karnataka Professional Educational Institutions (Regulations of Admission and Determination of Fee) Act, 2006. “As per the said agreement, OCI students aren't eligible to be considered for any other seat,“ he submitted, while seeking time till Thursday for consultations with the secretary (higher education ) on the issue.
 
 Trupthi V Reddy and others have filed the contempt petition alleging the July 17 corrigendum and the July 19 order issued by the government violated the order passed by the court on July 7.
 
