PANAJI: With the monsoon approaching and the building in a shambles, the Goa state   is likely to be shifted temporarily to the  .

 The authorities have initiated talks after chief minister Manohar Parrikar visited the museum last Saturday. During his inspection, Parrikar had told museum officials that artefacts representing Goa’s past would be moved to the palace.
 
 “When Parrikar inspected the area, he wanted to know if we could shift some of the artefacts, if not all. We will have another meeting with him to discuss the next step,” a senior museum official said. The source added that the museum is most likely going to occupy the ground floor of the palace.
 
 TOI had earlier reported that the museum building had developed cracks and faced various infrastructural problems during the monsoon, due to which water would seep in and pose a threat to the priceless artefacts.
 
 The museum houses a 200-year-old rath from the Chandreshwar Temple, Paroda, South Goa. When the temple authorities built a new rath in the 1980s, they donated the old one to the state government. It was brought to the department of archives and archaeology and remained there until it was shifted to the museum in 1996. It is yet to be decided if the rath will also be shifted to the palace from its spacious domain in the museum.
 
 Besides the museum, the department of archives and archaeology and the office of   will also be shifted to Adil Shah Palace. While the former is currently located in  , the latter is in Patto. They are likely to be accommodated on the first floor of the palace, a source said.
 
 The iconic Adil Shah Palace was previously the seat of government and housed the legislative assembly. It was shut for 16 years after the assembly shifted to its current location in Porvorim.
 
 The government had handed over the centuries-old building to the department of art and culture (DAC) in 2006. DAC then signed an MoU with the Goa State Infrastructure Development Corporation Ltd (GSIDC) to initiate renovation and set up a museum and art gallery on the premises. Restoration was completed in 2012, but lack of an expert museologist delayed plans to set up the museum and art gallery. The premises was opened briefly for the Serendipity Arts Festival in December last year.
 
 “Work to set up the museum and art gallery will be carried out while the premises are being accommodated by the various bodies. GSIDC is yet to handover the premises to us,” a DAC official said.
 
 The GSIDC official in charge of the palace refused to comment on the matter.
 
