GURUGRAM: Residents of   1 are finding themselves stuck and clueless as they are shuttling between the   and the department of town and country planning ( ) for expediting the takeover of the area by the civic body. In February last year, the chief minister had ordered the transfer of maintenance of three developer colonies — DLF, Sushant Lok-1 and Palam Vihar — to the MCG.

 The residents, who took to streets last week in protest against the deplorable condition of the infrastructure, met the director of the department of town and country planning, TL Satyaprakash, in Chandigarh recently as advised by MCG commissioner V Umashankar. However, contrary to the commissioner’s version, Satyaprakash told them there is no technical problem delaying the takeover and the corporation is capable of taking over the area or at least starting the infrastructure work in the three developer areas. “We were told by the commissioner there is a legal lacuna, which is delaying the takeover process. However, the director of DTCP has informed us there are no such hurdles,” said  , one of the residents. When contacted, Umashankar said he has written to the DTCP director as well as the principal secretary of urban local bodies department,  . “I am awaiting a response from them,” he said.
 
 A copy of the letter, accessed by TOI, says while the director of DTCP has the power to ask the licencee to handover the infrastructure, it does not have the power to direct MCG to take over the colonies. Also the repair works in these areas are legally not possible until the takeover process is completed.
 
 “... the takeover requires completion certificates for the areas, since none of the colonies have received a completion certificate for the transfer of public infrastructure maintenance to the municipal corporation, the takeover is delayed,” read the letter.
 
 The residents also recently met PWD Minister  , who has assured them of bringing together the parties concerned for peaceful negotiations. “We met the minister last week and he had asked us for a week’s time, which is almost over and we haven’t heard from him yet,” said Neetu.
 
 Singh, when approached for a comment, said, “We will talk about it next week.”
 
 
