 It’s that time of the year when city colleges gear up for their most awaited cul fests that they have meticulously planned for a long time. While most colleges also host a series of fests
during November and December, there are many others who give a second chance to the students. Ahmedabad Times talks to colleges who have festivals this month. Dhirubhai Ambani Institute of Information and Communication Technology (DAIICT) has lined up their fest for four days starting 23 February and will be called Synapse 2017. 
 
 While the fest will see host of events like code mutants where the students will compete against each other while coding it also has known names lined up for Pronites. “This year we have an EDM performance by the youngest Indian to perform at Tomorrowland, Sonu Nigam live-in-concert at our event Cynosure,” says Manish Berwani, a student council member. While Nirma University hosts a series of events and fests round the year, this time they also conducted a common fest in the last week of January. While on February 16 and 17, Institute of Technology hosted their personal fest where students from across the state participated in games, events and workshops. “We had been planning for the fest for over a year and finally could bring it out,” says a student organiser.
 
 He adds, “Carpe Diem’17, the fest saw workshops on digital marketing, travel photography, film making along with online events like meme making, mannequin challenge,” says a student organiser not wanting to mention his name because it was team work. Indian Institute of Technology, Gandhinagar concluded their   on a high note recently with Ayushmann Khurrana concluding Blithchron’17 with his band.The events included Panache, the fest’s version of a fashion week where students showcased their designing skills along with ramp walking. EDM night was opened by Italian artist Rossella Blinded and the band Dualist Inquiry. 
 
 The alumni association of HL College, recently concluded a two day musical and comedy event which was hosted on the campus on February 18-19. The two day event Abhinaad saw reality show participant turned playback singer Charit Dixit and Jyoti Christian dishing out some soulful numbers. On the second day, standup comedians Gaurav Sharma, Omi Brahmbhatt and Dharsi Baredia had the audience in splits.
 
 
 
 
