THANE: The sudden decision by the BEST undertaking to discontinue plying of   is likely to cause massive inconvenience to thousands of passengers from Thane who would now be forced to switch over to private cars or hire fleet cabs. The traffic police fear more congestion on the Thane-Mumbai stretches that is already facing massive crowding due to the Amar Mahal flyover and Versova bridge repairs.

 Officials informed that of its 266 fleet of AC buses, BEST plied around 50 on several routes like BKC, South Mumbai and even Borivali from the lake city. The undertaking earns approximately Rs 20 lakhs from the Thane routes with a passenger count of roughly 20,000 who prefer the public transport instead of driving down to their workplace in private vehicles.
 
 Experts say the number of vehicles on road will escalate by several thousands even if a fraction of these commuters drive out in their own cars or hire cabs to travel to and from their respective workplaces.
 
 There are nearly 40,000 cars that daily cross over between Thane and Mumbai through LBS road and Anand Nagar while another 25,000 cross the Dahisar naka daily. A conservative estimate by experts puts the volume of an additional 5,000 vehicles that would be on the roads in Thane crossing over to Mumbai daily in addition to the existing flow of nearly 1.65 vehicles as per the 2015 tally provided in the Sumit Mullick report. 
 
 This, the traffic officials’ fear, is likely to cause immense strain on the traffic management especially after curtailments due to the Amar Mahal flyover repairs and the existing Versova bridge traffic restrictions on the Ahemdabad highway. “The carrying capacity of each of these   that ferry nearly 100 passengers on any day is likely to spread over several cars adding to the chaos on roads here. The Kopri bridge is already causing traffic slow down and now the Chembur flyover issue is likely to slow down traffic further in addition to this extra flow of vehicles out on the road,” said a traffic official.
 
 S Yadav, a driver operating a radio cab facility said he was already getting calls from residents who enquired his cab availability in dropping them off to and from work starting Monday. A few others, including a resident from Hiranandani Estate, have made an impromptu group of frequent travelers and are planning to hire private AC buses to commute. 
 
 Meanwhile, the TMT is unlikely to ease the problems for such commuters as it has inadequate fleet to cater to the new destinations left vacant after BEST stops its services. The undertaking plies four services each to BKC and Andheri and another 88 on the Borivali sector that earns it a handsome Rs 30 lakhs daily. Officials have claimed they will be unable to ply to other routes in the recent future. The TMT had started an AC bus service to South Mumbai but curtailed it immediately after poor response last year. 
 
 Activists, meanwhile, have slammed the move claiming it to be directly benefit private cabs suggesting a rationalization plan among various agencies could have easily solved the crisis. 
 
 “Transport undertakings operating in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region need to formulate a unified schedule. Say for example, on the  , one often finds three buses of various undertakings running back to back of which just the first bus gets all the traffic while the rest two operate almost empty. If the undertakings formulate an amiable schedule among themselves then not only can they service newer routes better but also earn a decent revenue from all of them,” suggests a commuter activist. 
 
