GAYA: An interface between police and students was organised at the upgraded secondary school at Padariya panchayat near Bodh   on Tuesday. 

 The event, organised by child rights NGOs Ek Kiran and Awaz, was part of ‘Bharosa’ campaign to instil confidence among disadvantaged groups and spread awareness about child rights.
 
 Much to the embarrassment of mukhiya Rajesh Yadav and schoolteachers, girl students in large numbers complained of stalking and  . They even presented a map of harassment points at which girl students coming from neighbouring villages are frequently harassed by street Romeos. They also complained that their photographs were being clicked and uploaded to social networking sites.
 
 The students further said the school, located barely 3km from the seat of Buddha’s enlightenment, did not have toilet facilities and the school functioned barely for two hours between 10am and 12 noon.
 
 Mukhiya Yadav conceded the school functioned only for two hours and attributed this to the shortage of teachers. The middle school has been upgraded to the secondary level but no additional teachers have been deputed with the result that middle school teachers have to engage higher classes as well.
 
 Mani Bhushan, a police officer posted at the Magadh University police station, assured the students that the harassment points identified by them would be better patrolled during school assembly and dismissal time.
 
 The mukhiya, while assuring intervention through elders and counselling of wayward boys, asked the girls to move in groups to confront the stalkers.
 
 The event organisers assured the students that they will follow up their complaints at the higher levels and more such interactions will be organised.
 
 Another interface between police and village women was later organised in the Atiya village of the Padariya panchayat where a minor rape victim has delivered a baby, but her entitlement to compensation worth Rs 3 lakh has so far not been met. Incidents of child trafficking for labour and beggary purposes have been reported from the village.
 
 
