MUMBAI: It’s late afternoon. At an upscale apartment in Bandra, a 28-year-old woman called Anna is lying dead on the bed. Her body is cold and stiff. The area is cordoned off. A gun, air tickets, a blank cheque, strands of hair, and a handwritten note strewn around hold vital clues. 

 Kitted out in a white lab coat, latex gloves and face mask, a team of ten men and women step past the yellow ‘Do not cross’ barrier tape. The team splits. Holding up magnifying glasses, one group combs through every corner, scans blood splotches and bags anything remotely suspicious while the other group pores over financial forensics, telephone records and statements of suspects – Astha, Anna’s friend; Hemant, her ex-employee; and Rixon, a business partner. The lab results, due in two hours, should nail the culprit. 
 
 While the paraphernalia and action are real, the scenario — Anna’s violent murder — is, thankfully, just staged. 
 
 The cult and canvas of crime fiction is popular culture’s most wanted. If Sherlock Holmes, Miss Marple and Byomkesh Bakshi are household names, crime thrillers like CSI, Dexter, and True   dominate television. But for those who would rather solve a crime than watch someone else do it, it is possible now to slip into the gloves of a private investigator and crack a whodunit like a pro.
 
 With actual   in the city conducting parties and workshops on  , Mumbaikars are learning how to decipher bones, collect fingerprints, analyse blood splatter, detect counterfeit bills and use chemistry to identify the innocuous strand of hair or fibre just like a detective. Part problem solving and part adrenaline, this new social sport on the science of sleuthing is helping bridge the gap between fiction and reality.
 
 With 90 minutes to four hours to get cracking, teens and adults get to investigate an entire homicide, while the crime scene for children is more tame — a burgled bakery or a stolen pet. 
 
 “This isn’t another gimmicky outing. The instructor is always a real forensic investigator and one learns real  ,” says Regan Rodricks of Blue Bulbs, an experiential group. Joulyn Kenny, a forensic expert with the   says, “ It started with summer camps and now people want whodunit parties. My colleagues were sceptical but I wanted it to be an educational experience.” Joulyn’s Vasai home has a kooky corner stacked with inflatable human dolls, ceramic skeletons, human and animal hair samples, blood splotches and chromatogram stations. 
 
 “Since there aren’t proper educational programs , navigating a simulated crime scene satiates people’s curiosity,” says Alethea Vaz, a forensic consultant with Churchgate-based Forensics4fun, off-shoot of a private forensic firm. 
 
 Clowns and fairies; card games and antakshari are passé. At a crime-busting bash, usually at someone’s home, a chalk outline of a body greets guests as they step in. Footprints and caution tapes have replaced streamers and balloons. The cake is topped with fondant blood and bones. The Pink Panther theme wafts in. 
 
 “Don’t all of us have this detective nerve ticking inside our head, wanting to decode signs and look into dark secrets?” grins 34-year-old banker Shaji Inasu. Bred on a steady diet of CID, a Hindi crime show, it was the ultimate fantasy meets reality moment for Shaji when he spent an evening scouring hair samples and finger prints in a lab coat with his wife and friends. If Vikram Rathi from Lokhandwala turned his bedroom into a murder scene for his 11-year-old daughter’s birthday, Devangi Dalal got 80 Juhu-ites to play private eye at their annual picnic in Daman. Bored of brunches, Swati Gatti, 33, turned her Dahisar home into a bloody playground.
 
 At times the game can spill into real life. One little enthusiast, flexed his sleuthing muscles to solve a vexing mystery – the disappearance of his cricket bat. “He used his recently acquired skills to retrieve his bat from the school toilet, he claims,” smiled Joulyn.
 
