BENGALURU: Much like the format, the auction for the 10th   (IPL), to be held here on Monday, will be about short-term goals rather than long-term planning. 

 The focus will be on smart spending and cautious purchases. The purse for the teams isn't much - Rs. 148.33 crore to be precise - to pick a maximum 77 players, including 29 overseas cricketers out of the 354 who will go under the hammer. 
 
 With this being the last auction in the current set - the retention policy hasn't yet been outlined for the next edition -the focus of most teams will be to plug the holes in their line-up.
 
 Most will operate on a shoestring budget, the Mumbai Indians coming in with Rs 11.555 crore, the least among the eight franchisees. Kings XI Punjab and Delhi Daredevils have the maximum, Rs. 23.35 crore and Rs. 23.1 crore respectively.
 
 With many issues to be factored in, -tight purses, players to be picked for just one season and only a few slots to fill -strategizing will be the key. Although the English players, led by Ben Stokes, are the flavour of the auction, their unavailability for the entire duration of the six-week schedule poses a headache. 
 
 The Englishmen will leave for national duty in batches with the first lot out by the beginning of May and the rest the following week. The South Africans too will head out for their international engagements in early May. This apart, most teams have a packed international schedule prior to the IPL. So injuries and burnouts will have to be factored in before picking players.
 
 That said, the man in demand will be all-rounder Stokes (base price Rs 2 crore). The aggressive 25-year-old, who is set for his maiden IPL appearance, will go under the hammer with the reputation of being a high-utility player with both bat and ball. With an impressive strike-rate of a shade above 136 in his 21 T20 International appearances, Stokes is backed by good performances in the recent T20 series against India.
 
 Jason Roy (base price Rs 1 crore) is another Englishman who is expected to strike it rich. Experiences in other leagues -Big Bash, the Bangladesh Premier League and the Pakistan Super League ­ will make him a hot pick. Roy's compatriot and T20 specialist Tymal Mills (BP Rs 50 lakh), who will be available for the entire IPL, will be another player worth splurging on.
 
 With the focus largely on allrounders, New Zealand's Colin de Grandhomme (BP: Rs 30 lakh), the heavy hitter known to generate good pace with the ball, will be a good purchase. The other overseas players who are in the reckoning are the South Africa bowling duo of Imran Tahir and Kagiso Rabada, New Zealander Mitchell Santner,   and   of England, West Indies' Kesrick William and Ewin Lewis, and Mohammed Nabi of Afghanistan.
 
 With   serving out a doping ban and Mitchell Starc pulling out at the last minute, it will be interesting to see how Kolkata Knight Riders and Royal Challengers Bangalore seek to fill these significant voids.
 
 Among the Indians,   comes in with the highest base price of Rs two crore. Given his inconsistent form, interest in Sharma at a high price is up for debate. On the other hand,   (BP: Rs 50 lakh), with better credentials in the shortest format, may find a buyer after being released by Rising Pune Supergiants. 
 
 Manoj Tiwary and Pragyan Ojha, who did not find buyers in the previous auction, may well find a new home. But when it comes to home grown talent, the focus of the franchisees will be on uncapped players.
 
 Given the unpredictable nature of the auction, one can't rule out the emergence of a new million-dollar baby.
 
