Srikakulam: The much-touted outer ring road (ORR) project, a dream project of chief minister Chandrababu Naidu connecting the backward Srikakulam town to Kallepalli village, is gathering dust.  More than two years after the project was announced, it has made little progress owing to row over land acquisition and funds crunch.  The project hit another roadblock with the Visakhapatnam Urban Development Authority (Vuda), the nodal agency tasked to execute the Rs 700-crore project, unable to come up with the detailed project report (DPR) till now. “Except for preliminary estimations, the project has not moved an inch,” a senior Vuda official said. It was on February 14, 2015, that the CM had announced ORR for Srikakulam on the lines of the ORR in Hyderabad to overcome traffic problems on the highway. As per the 2011 census, Srikakulam town has a population of around 1,25,939, while the municipality officials said the current population is around 1.5 lakh. The population growth is nearly 5 to 10 percent every one decade. The flow of traffic has also increased and the existing road network is not able to cope with the increasing number of motor vehicles. P Sriramulu Naidu of Ampolu, one of the villages in the ORR corridor, says, “We will part with our land only if the government offers us good compensation.” According to senior Vuda officials, ORR would cover a length of 33 km from the town for which it would require 188 acres. It will start from Pedapadu Bypass Road on NH-16 to the surrounding areas like Arasavilli, Kottapeta, collectorate, Ponnada, Navabharat Junction on the highway and Ampolu. A villager of Pedapadu L Krishamurthy rued: “The authorities have not communicated on the ORR proposal till now.” When contacted, Srikakulam tehsildar S Sudha Sagar told TOI that discussions were still going on the project viability and the report is yet to be submitted to the government. He said around a thousand farmers would be affected and promised to grant good compensation under the new RR Act. He said that if the acquired site value was Rs 18 lakh, the site owner would get Rs 45 lakh.  “ORR is a good project which can lead to the development of the town in all aspects including provision of better transport connectivity to Srikakulam Road railway station, which is located in Amadalavalasa (nearly 10 km from the town) and also the famous Arasavilli temple,” Sudha Sagar said. “Out of the 188 acres required for the land, only 60 acres belong to the government and the balance 128 acres will have to be acquired from people through the land acquisition,” an official source told TOI. Speaking to TOI, Srikakulam collector K Dhananjaya Reddy said: “We have to discuss the project in detail with both Vuda officials and the people concerned.”