Bathinda: A 12-year-old boy Somil, who was abducted from outside a private school here on Wednesday, was found by the police within a few hours. The two abductors, who had made a ransom demand of Rs 50 lakh, were also arrested. The mastermind of the abduction plan was a former teacher.

 The police said that 21-year-old Jagdev Singh of Sai Nagar here, along with his accomplice Baljit Kumar of Sirsa, reached Saint Joseph School near the grain market in a car bearing registration number PB03A 0660 at noon. When the school was up, he spotted Somil, a Class VI student, and told the school van driver that he will take him home. Later, after the abduction he called up the boy’s grandfather Mohan Lal to demand a ransom of Rs 50 lakh, said Bathinda zone IG M S Chhina.
 
 Chhina said that Jagdev had earlier worked at Saint Kabir School at Bhucho town being run by Mohan Lal, the boy’s grandfather. Jagdev told Lal that he would kill the boy in case the ransom was not paid by 5 pm.
 
 Bathinda SSP Naveen Singla said that when Lal informed the police about the abduction of his grandson, they sealed all borders of Bathinda and got the information that abductors had gone towards Dabwali side. The police teams were alerted. The IG said that SHO Rama Sukhjit Singh, who had laid a naka at village Gurthari, spotted the car and signalled it to stop but the car-borne persons tried to run over the policemen and sped away. They fired at the cops and the police retaliated. The accused turned towards Kitti village, where another police party had already been deployed. The police tried to stop the car but it entered some paddy fields, from where the two tried to run away but the police succeeded in arresting them and found Somil.
 
 The family members told that earlier Jaidev was working as arts and craft teacher but was dismissed from service nearly six months ago. He wanted to take revenge and so planned the kidnapping. 
 
 Chhina said that a case of kidnapping had been registered against Jaidev and Baljit at the civil lines police station while another of attempt to murder and Arms Act was registered at Sangat police station. The police seized a .12-bore and a .315-bore pistols from them. Both will be produced in court on Thursday, the IG said.
 
 
