GURUGRAM:   and   were directed by the   (NGT) on Tuesday to submit status report on concretisation of natural drains in  .

 The direction was issued following a petition filed by Vinod Chopra of DLF Phase 4, against the move to concretise natural drains. NGT has also directed Huda and MCG to submit a report on the impact of concretisation of natural drains, and assessment report on whether the move stands to benefit the city and its people in the long run. The next hearing is scheduled for March 10.
 
 Earlier, NGT had restrained Huda from construction of a cover for natural drains, without obtaining environmental clearances. Chopra’s petition has highlighted that concretisation is being done violating rules, and it will be disastrous for the city in the long run, as it will destroy ground water recharging capacity, kill several life forms which thrive in these water bodies, cause flooding and irreversibly alter the pristine natural landscape.
 
 Objecting to the concretisation of the natural drain in Wazirabad in Sector 52, Chopra had written to Huda, MCG, the forest department and the deputy commissioner, requesting them to stop and take corrective measures. Unable to prise any response from the authorities, Chopra filed his petition before the green tribunal in 2016.
 
 “Every monsoon, Gurgaon gets flooded as there’s no proper drainage system in the city. Instead of taking appropriate action, civic authorities are going ahead with concretisation of natural drains,” said Chopra. “Instead of giving its time, effort and resources towards replenishingand rejuvenating natural water channels, and reviving the city’s few surviving natural water bodies, the development body has adopted yet another negative exercise, that of concretising the drains,” said environmentalist Amina Shervani.
 
 Environmentalists allege over time, these  , which are already constricted in terms of volume and carrying capacity, will clog up because of silting. 
 
 This will cause flooding and infestation of disease, and adversely affect city residents.
 
 Environmental analyst Chetan Agrawal said the  , in its orders in the cases M C Mehta vs Kamal Nath and others and Dr B L Wadhera vs Union of India, and the NGT in its order in the Manoj Misra case, have observed that stormwater drains must be kept free of obstructions and pollution.
 
 
