PHAGWARA: Phagwara   mayor Arun Khosla finds himself at the receiving end for allegedly paying Rs 40 lakh to an inter-continental   to get a donor from Andhra Pradesh for his sick daughter and getting the transplant done in Cairo with the Punjab unit of Congress demanding a probe into the source of fund. TOI on Wednesday had reported the disclosure by the racket kingpin Suresh Prajapati and his aide Vruchantala Nizamuddin, who were recently arrested by Mumbai police. 

 While Khosla refused to comment on the issue even though his statement has already been recorded by the Mumbai Police, former Congress minister and now Kapurthala District Congress Committee president Joginder Singh Mann said though he sympathised with Khosla’s daughter he should clarify the source of such exorbitant funding. 
 
 “In fact the amount which has been disclosed has been paid to the kidney racket while there would have been huge costs involved in the transplant at Cairo including the travel expenses. There should be a thorough probe into the source of funding and his stint as mayor for three years,” Mann said while speaking to TOI on Wednesday. 
 
 Apart from Mann, Block Congress Committees (Urban and Rural) presidents Sanjiv Bugga and Daljeet Rahju issued a statement on Wednesday demanding Khosla’s resignation and asking for a judicial probe into the mater.
 
 They said that a probe should also be conducted to ascertain the source of the whooping amount of Rs 40 lakh. “It is surprising that a person with no source of permanent income has spent more than Rs 40 lakh to purchase a kidney illegally. The mayor must have amassed this huge wealth through corrupt means, as alleged by the leaders of his own party. It is a serious matter and needs a thorough and independent probe,” they said.
 
 They argued that a person who resorted to such illegal practice had no right to remain ensconced on the seat of the mayor. “It is condemnable that instead of following a legal procedure, he has taken the back door to purchase kidney that too from a needy person,” they said.
 
 Khosla however preferred not to comment on the allegations despite repeated prodding.
 
