JAIPUR: A training programme in basic mountaineering skills turned fatal at the prominent IIS University (previously ICG  ), a private girls’ university in Mansarovar, on Monday morning when a 19-year-old second-year student slipped to death from the terrace of a six-floor building. The student was part of a group assembled on the terrace to witness participants zip down a rope slide from the terrace to another building nearby.

 The college had just started when the demonstration class for a basic course in mountaineering also began as part of an annual feature.
 
 A video of the mishap, that went viral, showed a girl zipping down the rope line when the victim, Aditi, who was standing on the terrace, somehow lost her balance and fell down to the concrete floor below. She was immediately rushed to a private hospital but was declared brought dead.
 
 The incident took place at 10am when a light drizzle had made the   slippery. There were no railings or high walls on the terrace. “One girl was sliding down and we were all watching in excitement from below. All of a sudden, we saw Aditi lose her balance and fall down screaming for help. She crashed to the floor and everybody ran towards her,” said a student.
 
 Incidentally, the demonstration was being held under the supervision of Aditi’s father Sunil Sanghi, a government official who has been holding such demonstrations at the university for the past 10 years privately. “Aditi herself was a trained instructor. The demo was being held under the supervision of Sunil Sanghi. Aditi had completed one demo and was on the roof with the other instructors. Unfortunately, she lost her balance and fell down,” said a statement issued by the university.
 
 “I have been preparing my daughter for such sports when she was as young as three years. She was a trained mountaineer. On Monday, I was giving demo at her college for students. She had completed her turn and was standing in the corner. All of a sudden, I saw her failing from the roof,” said Sunil Sanghi, Aditi’s father. Aditi was a second-year student of the bachelor of computer application (BCA).
 
 When the police reached the hospital and quizzed Sunil, he said he didn’t know how the mishap took place. However, Shipra Path police suspect severe lapses in safety norms that are standard operation procedure while conducting such a sport.
 
 “There were too many students standing at the edge of the roof. The CCTV footage and other mobile videos shows Aditi losing her balance as the terrace must have been slippery,” said station house officer (SHO) Mukesh Choudhary.
 
 Sunil, the victim’ father was initially unwilling to conduct a post-mortem. However, when the police insisted, he agreed. The post-mortem was conducted at Jaipuria Hospital near Malviya Nagar.
 
 Sunil is posted at Yojna Bhavan as an assistant statistical officer but runs a private adventure academy from his home in Mangal Marg at Bapu Nagar. According to him, he has been training several officials of the state government in disaster relief and adventure sports. He denied there were any lapses on the part of the college in adopting safety norms.
 
 Cops said they tried speaking to the father but had to return as he was not willing to say a word on the matter.
 
