NAGPUR: Presence of heavy metals in drinking water, absence of efficient irrigation techniques and sufficient supply of   at grassroots level are some of the challenges that need to be addressed in earnest. This was the conclusion of a panel discussion of experts held at National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (Neeri) to mark World Water Day 2017 on Wednesday.

 ‘The role of youth in waste water management’ was the theme of the programme organized by   and Neeri. Director of Neeri Rakesh Kumar, professor of civil engineering at VNIT Rajesh Gupta, member of  , senior manager at   (OCW) Farhat Quraishi and gastroenterologist Anand Totogi participated in the panel discussion.
 
 In her address, mayor Nanda Jichkar said, “The water level around the world was plummeting. Therefore, discussions on water conservation are hollow if we cannot fix a leaking tap.” The logic behind launching the 24x7 scheme in the city was to discourage people from storing water which can lead to wastage. 
 
 Gupta said, heavy metal compounds consisting of nickel, chrome and lead seep into natural water sources and contaminate supply. He termed these compounds as ‘new age pollutants’ and felt that the magnitude of contamination will increase in the future and water purification will become difficult. 
 
 Dr Totogi said, “Cases of cancer will also increase owing to the carcinogenic nature of these pollutants.” “Ensuring supply of fresh water is not enough. Personal hygiene while handling water at home or in restaurants is equally critical to keep gastrointestinal disorders at bay,” said Dr Totogi.
 
 Chandrayan highlighted the economic hurdles in waste water management and called for fixing water charges after studying consumption behaviour of people from household to industrial level. “ Introduction of a slab system for water consumption and charge money accordingly will help curb wastage,” he added.
 
 Quraishi said that OCW has started penalizing contractors whose tankers leak water on the roads during transit. 
 
 Kumar said, “Fortunately, availability of water is fine in the city, but the situation may get worse in the next ten years if corrective measures are not taken.”
 
