KOLKATA: The state health department is keen to introduce taekwondo training for students in government medical colleges and hospitals across Bengal. After  , RG Kar and Calcutta National Medical College and Hospital too have shown interest in introducing taekwondo on the campus and the health department is having discussions on the modalities to introduce this Korean martial art to medical students, not only for self-defence, but also for discipline and character-building.

 Already, in a first-of-its-kind initiative in any government-run hospital in the country, a group of over 100 doctors of NRS hospital are taking taekwondo training twice a week from early this year. Close on heels, AIIMS in Delhi has introduced self-defence classes on the campus including taekwondo for its resident doctors.
 
 State director of medical education (DME) Dr Debashis Bhattacharya said that in Kolkata, RG Kar Hospital and CNMC have also shown interest to introduce taekwondo training for their medical students. 
 
 “We will soon hold a meeting to discuss this issue. The plan is to introduce taekwondo in government medical colleges and hospitals,” the DME said. 
 
 “I appreciate this initiative. West Bengal is the first in the country to lead this educational movement on motivation and stress management through taekwondo. Many renowned universities and educational institutions have taekwondo as part of their curriculum. Incidentally, following NRS Hospital, AIIMS Delhi also has introduced taekwondo for motivation and stress management. As a taekwondo instructor, it is my duty to build moral character and mental strength in people,” said taekwondo Hall of Fame recepient Grand Master Pradipta Kumar Roy, a regular member of KUKKIWON World taekwondo Leaders Forum who has been giving training to the junior doctors at NRS.
 
 NRS Hospital deputy superintendent Dr  , who himself is a taekwondo practitioner and also the first to come up with the idea to introduce taekwondo training for the doctors of the hospital, said the reason why he has been encouraging the martial art practice for medical students and junior doctors is that it is beneficial in building up discipline, self-confidence and in stress management. 
 
 “Taekwondo is not only about self-defence but also about self discipline, increasing stamina and building character. Getting taekwondo training from experts like Grand Master Roy would immensely help medical students in all aspects of their lives,” he said.
 
 Earlier this year, the DME gave a proposal to the Medical Council of India (MCI) to introduce taekwondo training as a part of the MBBS curriculum for all medical students in all government medical college and hospitals. 
 
 The state is yet to get a feedback from MCI on this proposal.
 
 
