NEW DELHI: Despite bilateral trade going down and Russia increasingly aligning itself with China, India is doggedly pursuing bilateral relations with Prime Minister   set to hold the 18th annual summit with Russian President   in   during his fournation tour, starting Monday .The tour will take him to Germany , Spain and France as well.

 On June 1,   and Putin will hold restricted talks followed by delegation-level discussions and signing of a bunch of agreements. The most useful interaction, according to MEA joint secretary GV Srinivas, will be a oneon-one dinner between the two leaders planned for that night.
 
 Since the last summit in Goa held on the sidelines of the BRICS summit, the quali ty of Indo-Russian political relationship have not been matched on the ground.
 
 Questioned about the lack of growth in trade figures with bilateral trade declining to around $7 billion, Srinivas attributed some of it to the delay in the International North South Transport Corridor (INSTC) and India's decision to be virtually the last country to sign up to the TIR conventiona multi-lateral treaty on international road transport. The declining Russian economy , too, could also be one of the reasons.
 
 The highlight of relationship with Russia in recent times has been the number and frequency of visits by leaders from different regions who come to India and interact with their counterparts in Indian states. This despite the fact that Russia has not yet named an ambassador to India months after   passed away . India has tried to diversify the defence-nuclear-space relations with big investments in Russian energy business, but results of that kind of investment show up years later.India is also pushing for greater science and technology cooperation. 
 
 But a lack of adequate follow-through in India means the deal to source raw diamonds directly from Russia is not seen on the ground yet. NSA Ajit Doval returned from Moscow on Wednesday while foreign secretary S Jaishankar had been in Russia in March, showing the securit ydefence pivot of the relationship. Modi will meet Emmanuel Macron, the newly elected French president, on the last leg of his four-nation visit. It will come days after he meets German Chancellor  ,   of Spain and Putin.
 
 This Europe-centric visit is aimed at attracting greater investment to India.
 
