COIMBATORE: After agricultural farms and domestic households, it is now the turn of poultry farms in   belt to be hit hard by water shortage.

  With consumption of water being a major portion of a just born and growing chicken's diet and borewells running dry, poultry farmers are trying to grapple with the shortage by buying water on a daily basis. Poultry farms in Sultanpet, Pappampatti Pirivu, Kangeyam and Vellai Kovil seem to be the worst hit. 
 
 There are at least 500 broiler farms, big and small, across Sulthanpet, one of the major poultry farm zones in the Coimbatore-Tirupur belt. Almost all the farms have begun buying water on a daily basis since the past two months. "We had two borewells which were 800ft deep and they ran dry in January," said Raghunathan Ramasamy, a broiler chicken farm owner on Edayarpalayam Road. "So, we dug up a new borewell which is 1,200ft. On many days, we don't get water from the new borewell as well," he said. 
 
 Ramasamy's farm with 35,000 broiler chicken has a requirement of at least 4,000 litres a day. "We are now buying 4,000-litre water loads from Kannampalayam for 600 on a daily basis. This water is to exclusively feed the chicken. They risk death, dehydration and disease without water, especially during the summer," he said. "We use another 200 litres to clean the shed and farm space," he said. 
 
 A Chinnaswamy, another farmer from Sulthanpet, has around 15,000 broiler chicken. Chinnaswamy's 1,000-ft borewell too has run dry. He is now seriously considering digging another borewell to tide over the crisis.
 
 Similarly, poultry farms in Erode and Kangeyam belt are also hit hard by water shortage. "Water levels have dropped to almost 1,500-ft. So, all of us are forced to invest in new borewells which cost at least 60,000," said a Kangeyam-based poultry farm owner, A Selvaraj. "It has been over six months since we got adequate water from the well. While many of us are buying water, a few farmers have begun steadily reducing their chicken production because of the water crisis. What is the point of dead chicken," he said.
 
 In the Coimbatore-Tirupur belt, broiler chicken farms are spread across Kangeyam, Vellai Kovil, Palladam,  , Pollachi, Udumalpet and Sulthanpet. 
 
 "There is severe water shortage if you depend only on borewells or village panchayats for water," head of Palladam-based   Saadhai Kannan said. "However, around 10 of us (farmers) pooled in Rs 10 crore and have laid a separate pipeline from the L&T project in Bhavani River. It is a part of the  ," said Kannan. "So, we get almost 50 lakh litres of water, taking care of our requirements," he said. 
 
 With water from the   and Thirumoorthy Dam first being made to fill up many water tanks in the area, before being released for irrigation, the groundwater levels remain healthy ensuring poultry farms in Dharapuram and Udumalpet are taken care of, said Kannan. 
 
