HYDERABAD: Weeks ahead of the departure of Haj pilgrims to Saudi Arabia, the   is busy spreading awareness about how to be vigilant against the Middle East Respiratory Syndrome corona virus, popularly known as MERS CoV. 

 According to information made available by the  , the virus is transmitted from person to person when they are in close contact. While Haj pilgrims are being vaccinated across the country for diseases such as polio, the   website states that there is no vaccine or 'specific treatment' for the virus. 
 
 One of the methods of transmission of the disease happens by way of consuming camel milk, which is not boiled or pasteurised. 
 
 The belief among a section of pilgrims that camel milk cures joint pains is an issue the Telangana State Haj Committee is grappling with. Speaking to TOI about this, the committee's special officer Prof S A Shukoor said: 
 
 "There are some pilgrims who want to consume camel milk in that belief. This is not right. Precautions must be taken before drinking the milk." 
 
 The committee, he said, has received advisory from the Royal Consulate General of Saudi Arabia, Mumbai through the  . "The advisory clearly states that pilgrims should not drink unboiled camel milk and not consume improperly cooked camel meat. As is the practice, we are spreading awareness among pilgrims to abide by this advisory. This is in the interest of pilgrims," Prof Shukoor said. 
 
 To tackle the spread of the virus, the advisory lists certain guidelines that include staying away from camels and wearing masks at crowded places, avoid touching eyes, mouth and nose. It also instructs pilgrims to wash hands frequently with soap or antiseptic substances. The use of napkins and their proper disposal after coughing and sneezing has also been encouraged. 
 
 A diplomat at the Consulate General of India, Jeddah, meanwhile, assured that there is no need to panic. Responding to a TOI query, deputy consul general, Mohammed Shahid Alam via email, said: "As there is no MERS alert in Saudi Arabia, no separate advisory on MERS has been sent to HCOI for Haj 2017. General guidelines for health and hygiene has been given which is available on Haj Committee of India website or can be obtained from them (sic)." 
 
 The WHO has recorded that the virus was first traced in 2012 in Saudi Arabia. The symptoms are a shortness of breath, fever and coughing, among others. The organisation has noted that around 35 percent of those diagnosed with the virus have died. 
 
 
