KOCHI: The IVF clinics in Kerala have doubled over the past 5 years. A quick count shows that from 20 IVF clinics in 2012, the numbers have jumped to 41 in 2017. Fertility specialists said that the reason for this phenomenon was not the increased infertility among couples.They pointed out that the problem was that many were increasingly moving towards infertility situations due to late marriages and delay in conceiving.
“On an average 5,000 couples undergo IVF treatment at these centres every year and 1,000 to 1,500 IVF babies are delivered in Kerala,“ said   (ISAR, Kerala chapter) secretary Dr Fessy Louis T.
 
 Though it is an expensive option, IVF is now gaining acceptance among Malayalis. IVF treatment cost varies between Rs 1.25 lakh and Rs 2 lakh in Kerala and the success rate is just 30-35 %.Five years ago, a majority of the women who had IVF treatment were aged above 32. Now, over 50% of them are aged below 30. And repeat patients have increased, with 20% returning for a second baby through IVF.
 
 “Earlier, IVF was considered unnatural as well as financially and morally unacceptable. Now there is much more acceptance and if a couple doesn't conceive naturally, they are willing to give IVF a try,“ said Dr Swati Singh, IVF consultant,  .
 
 She added that earlier many childless couples waited for 2 to 3 years before they chose the IVF option after five to six counselling sessions. Now, they are willing to go for IVF as soon as they realize that this is the only option left to have a child.
 
 IVF specialists said that education has helped Malayalis look at IVF in a positive manner. Besides many centres are now educating people about IVF and conducting awareness classes, even in colleges. And there are results in the form of numbers.
 
 “Even people from lower income groups are seeking IVF treatment. They don't mind spending any amount to have a baby. The stigma of being childless is too much to handle,“ said   A, MD, Kinder Women's Hospital & Fertility Centre. Explaining a common trend among couples who come for infertility treatment, fertility specialists said that most of them think about having a baby three or four years after their marriage. Mostly, women's average age at the time of marriage would be 25 and 30 in the case of men. “Most of them marry late and due to other prerequisites in life they do not try for a child soon after marriage. Later on, when they decide to have a child say three years after their marriage, they fail and then they get panic attacks.This is a common scenario,“ said Dr  , scientific director, CIMAR Fertility Centre.
 
 Incidentally, while the number of centres have increased, not all are successful and popular. “Though there are 41 IVF centres, the centres that are able to sustain and do good work are just 10 to 15. Most of them survive on one or two IVF cases a month,“ he added.
 
