GURUGRAM: The father of the 5-year-old, whose body was found in a drain near   last week, broke down while speaking to TOI about his daughter. The girl, who was 15 minutes older than her twin, had gone missing when both girls had gone to the shrine of   in the Civil Lines with their grandmother on January 5.

 Their mother said the twin doesn’t eat at night, believing her sister is about to come home and she will eat with her. “Their grandmother was eating when our girl took leave to relieve herself. When she didn’t return, their grandmom returned and told us. I rode to Rajiv Chowk on my rickshaw and kept shouting her name all around till late in the night,” said the father, recollecting the night when his daughter was abducted.
 
 For the next 19 days, both parents would go around looking for their daughter. On January 25, police called him and said his daughter had been found. He was at Daultabad Chowk at that time. “I was relieved my daughter had finally been found. But when the PCR van stopped next to the mortuary, my heart sank,” he said, and takes a minute to resume talking.
 
 This was the second such incident to have taken place in Gurgaon the same week. On Tuesday, another girl’s body was found in a vacant plot from across her house. She had gone out to play in a vast swathe of land in front of her house, and did not return. After searching the entire night in vain, the parents registered a complaint. The father of the girl is partially disabled and survives by begging on the street, while the mother works as a domestic help. They have a 15-year-old son and live in a slum.
 
 The SHO of Civil Lines police station, B S Hooda, has been working with a special investigation unit set up to probe the case of the murder of the five-year-old. “We’ve been combing the area where the girl was lost. The investigation is going on with full rigour,” he said.
 
 Last year, the body of a four-year-old — again, raped and murdered — was found in a dustbin on November 26, after she had gone missing from near a shrine close to her home in Sector 49 three days before. Just like the girl from Sector 15, she had gone to the shrine with her grandmother. Till date, there are no leads in the case, which was registered with Sadar police station.
 
 Parents of all these children lead a hand-to-mouth existence the incidents have been traumatic. “I don’t have any wealth. She was all I had,” said the father of the 5-year-old, who was born with her twin, three years after their mother had undergone treatment for infertility. “I spent whatever money I had raising these girls. It would have been less painful if she had died right after she was born,” he said.
 
 According to a police source, there is a possibility that the murder at Sadar and the murder of the 5 year old are linked. Both abductions took place during Bhandaras, and both took place on Tuesday, said a police official. In both the cases, there were also marks of torture on the body, and the clothes missing, in case of the 5-year-old from the lower body.
 
 “We have been perturbed after these incidents. Mentally unstable people don’t need a reason to commit such crimes. Special investigating teams are working. We have also involved FSL (Forensic Science Laboratory) teams,” said the ACP Manish Sehgal.
 
 The twin sister remembered that a man had taken away her sister on a bicycle, but she can’t recall who it was, said the parents who have been trying to piece together bits of information to make sense of what had happened. The mother says, “He should be punished in a way that nobody dares do anything like this ever.”
 
 
