Although he moved to Mumbai in pursuit of becoming a successful singer over two decades ago, at heart,   remains a Dilliwala. The singer, who spent his childhood years in west Delhi, recently returned to the city for auditions of the upcoming season of Indian Idol. The singer talks about his memories of Delhi, demonetisation, and why reality show winners in the west do better than their Indian counterparts.
 
 
 
 Each visit to the city brings back a wave of nostalgia for him. Sonu says, "This is the place where I spent my formative years, went to school, fell in love for the first time, and this is where I first dreamt of going to Bombay, and becoming a singer. This is the place that nurtured my dreams."
 
 
 
 There are things about Delhi that Sonu doesn't admire. He says, "There is another side to Delhi ' the rowdy and the angry side ' I don't appreciate that. Unnecessary road rage, pollution and crimes against women ' all that is not good for the city. Back in Bombay or anywhere else for that matter, when anyone is talking bad about Delhi, I don't like that. It's my city after all, but it is true, so I can't even refute it." Sonu says that crime existed back in his days too, but it wasn't as rampant. "We had goondas in school. The kind of guys who would say 'hum isko jaante hain, humari back yeh hai, tu baahar mil', etc but it wasn't this bad. Today everyone wants to slash the other person's throat, it seems," he says.
 
 
 
 Addressing the demonetisation issue, the singer recently made a video called Kaagaz. His conversations with his friends based in Delhi inspired him to come up with the video that went viral. Sonu shares, "Most of my friends here are from the business background. They were immediately affected by it. You know how it is in Delhi markets. Most transactions are cash-based, so for them, a rug had been pulled from under their feet. I was trying to tell them that if they stay calm, things would return to normal. It worked for them, so I thought why not share this message on social media, where it can reach thousands of people who have the same concerns and fears. Whether the decision is good or bad is something I don't want to comment on. I'm just saying that we need to keep the hope ki kal achha hoga, and that hope is important in these times."
 
 
 
 Sonu recounts his meeting with music composer Anu Malik and says, "I first met Anu ji at a ghazal competition in Delhi. I was participating, and he was the judge. I must have been 13-14 years old at that time, and that was my first meeting with him. Call it fate, that years later, not only did I work with him for several memorable songs, but also judged a reality show alongside him. That is life coming full circle."
 
 
 
 Sonu is returning as a judge for Indian Idol after 10 years. "Music has changed a lot since 2006. Today, people have a certain style of singing and their confidence is great. The style of singing which is prevalent today is quite distinct. It is very different from what it used to be in the earlier days," he says.
 
 While winners of reality shows in the US, like   or  , have carved out successful music careers, Indian winners haven't had the same luck. Sonu attributes this to a lack of support for independent music in India. He says, "It's nothing to be proud of that we have a system, where a singer has to rely on film songs to be considered successful. Where is the platform for independent music? Independent artists make many songs and albums, but neither the radio nor the TV music channels give them the boost that they give to film songs. Carrie Underwood won American Idol but did not have to rely on singing for Hollywood films to be successful. She came out with an album, and fans bought it. That happened because the TV channels and radio stations played her songs. In India, winners have to wait for music composers to work with them, and then they become successful."
 
 
 
 The trend of actors singing for films is fast gaining popularity, with most new releases featuring a track sung by one of its leads. Sonu, however, says there is no need for playback singers to feel insecure about this trend. He says, "Actors singing is nothing new. It's just more marketable these days, so happens more often. But I don't see any reason for singers to be threatened by that. If Salman sings well, nobody is going to say ki woh mujh se achha gaata hai. There is a place for everybody in the industry, and as long as you continue doing your work, you need not worry."
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
