Around 30 students, boys and girls between 18 and 24, cramasmall room in Malwani, a sprawling slum in Malad (West). Poverty , lack of motivation and desperation to work had forced the majority in the class to dropout after SSC or HSC and a bleak future stared them in the face. Becoming auto rickshawtaxi drivers or joining the army of hawkers on  's crowded streets were a few options to them.

 Since four local boys had left to join terror outfit Islamic State a couple of years ago, the threat of many unemployed getting radicalized through IS propaganda cannot be written off. But a visit to this class of 30, courtesy Siddiquis Educational and Welfare Trust (SEWT), shows Malwani is changing. A month after undergoing intensive training in English speaking, personality development and customer handling, followed by an assessment test, these youngsters may join malls and shops as salespersons, work in BPOs, hospitality and health sectors or start small businesses with soft loans.
 
 This is Malwani model. A world away from depressing existence. A promise for better future. Being run by Future Sharp Skill Ltd, a joint initiative of Future Group and   (NSDC), with SEWT as a facilitator, the initiative is changing Malwani' image. A ghetto with significant Muslim population, Malwani had hit the headlines a few years ago when four local Muslim boys had left to join the terrorist outfit Islamic State (IS). Of them, two returned home, one is in the   (NIA) custody while one is untraceable. Preventing radicalization of other youths in the area and de-radicalization of those who might have been influenced by IS propaganda is a real concern. “Un employed, disaffected youths are easy fodders for extremist ideology but through skillbased training and subsequent employment these youths can be deterred to join the dangerous world of fake jihadism,“ says SEWT's managing trustee   whose Rose Mary English High School at Malwani hosts these classes.
 
 Begun a year ago, the initiative has so far trained around 100 youths and helped them earn a decent livelihood.Daughter of a zari worker, Rifa Khan (25), a college dropout, hopes the training will help her get a mall job. “Some of my friends got trained here and are now employed at different malls. I too hope to get a decent job,“ says Khan. Malls like Infinity and Inorbit in Malad have already employed some of those who trained here. Shamim Ansari, an orphan, says training at the centre will make her confidently face job interviews. “I have to support my mother and three brothers.Ihave to work and this training will open doors of opportunities for me,“ says Ansari.
 
 Since many conservative parents are reluctant to send their daughters to this mixed class and a course which will allow their wards to join the workforce away from their locality , Siddiqui has hired a mobiliser to convince them.  , the mobiliser, scouts for potential candidates and clears doubts. “Once the parents are convinced that their wards are in safe hands, they allow them to attend the class,“ informs Sayed who adds “mouth publicity“ is bringing the unemployed youths to the classroom.
 
 Apart from facing threats of radicalization, Malwani also battles drug menace. This initiative, say community leaders, will help stop several boys getting attracted to drugs. “It is a real problem here and our youngsters badly needed support to see life beyond Malwani. This training promises such an opportunity ,“ says  's Allama Bunai Hasani, who had led a door-to-door drive against radicalization in the area some months ago. “Malwani model is worth imitating.“
 
