If you can squeeze past the hawkers and cars in Fort and enter the unassuming spectacles store, Baliwalla & Homi, you'll be greeted by heritage interiors and a century-old business that catered to some of India's most prominent figures. Indeed, the store's archive holds a 1940 letter from  , one of Gandhi's secretaries and later the first woman to hold cabinet rank.

 “Mahatmaji's spectacles have arrived this morning,“ Kaur wrote from Sevagram. “He is wearing them and says that as far as he can judge at present, they are quite alright; should by any chance there be any discomfort later on, I will let you know.“
 
 Brothers Naoroji and   opened their first optical store in Kalbadevi in 1899. Pirojsha was a jeweler and a skilled craftsman who would handcraft gold frames and fit them with the flat lenses that Naoroji made in his glass-grinding workshop. Glassmaking, jewellery-making and self-taught optometry was a common combination of trades in those days. Glasses were a luxury selling for half a gold guinea (Rs 15), a large sum at the time.
 
 Then in 1913, Naoroji's son, also called Pirojsha, partnered with prominent socialite   to expand the business under the mixed moniker Baliwalla & Homi.
 
 The shop shifted to what is now their flagship store in Fort in 1916 and two more branches were opened, one in Parel in 1919 and the second in Dhobi Talao in 1928). By the 1950s, the business had begun to manufacture ophthalmic instruments too.
 
 “There were hardly any qualified optometrists in those days,“ says  , the fourth generation of Baliwallas and an optometrist with a degree from the UK who carries forward the legacy of her artisan forefathers. “My grandfather, who learnt the craft from his father, advanced his rudimentary knowledge of optometry through self-study while Guzder got his social circle of Maharajas, politicians and foreign diplomats to patronise the shop.“
 
 Prominent clients included the country's first President   who or dered glasses from here after a cataract was removed. “One had to wear thick, high-powered glasses. Fitting and dispensing these glasses accurately was a skilled job,“ says Anahita. Her father Naval Baliwalla made Prasad's glasses. Naval was also a pioneer in optometry education, setting up the   in Juhu. Today, the store is exclusive agent in India for several imported ophthalmic instruments. And while it no longer sells handcrafted frames, the store stays current with the changing fashions that now drive retail sales.
 
 “People want multiple pairs to match their clothes.It's less about seeing and more about being seen in,“ says Anahita, sitting on a mezzanine floor that overlooks woodcarved Corinthian columns and arched windows--remnants of the classical architecture that has survived a fire nearly 40 years ago. What hasn't changed is the momand-pop tradition. Anahita, who is 58, sees old customers bring in their grandchildren for their first pair of glasses.The Homis remain partners, and the latest entrant on the Baliwalla side is Anahita's 23year-old nephew Hormuz. The commerce graduate's first assignment will be to find the shop a spot in the wired world.“We have to adapt to the times,“ says Anahita.
 
