MADURAI: Ahead of the   scheduled for February 10 at  , a section of villagers petitioned district collector   on Monday seeking his intervention to thwart AIADMK’s alleged bid to hijack the event. They said while jallikattu was associated with village festival and rituals, the ruling party had taken matters into its hands and not been involving all sections of villagers. 

 According to the villagers who visited the collector office, jallikattu begins with erection of ‘mukoorthakal’ (a sacred pole) and it should be announced through ‘thamukku’ (drums) inviting all villagers in a formal manner. Alanganallur panchayat has four villages like Alanganallur, Valasai, Kuravankulam and Othaveedu. All these villages had stakes in the event, they said. Prayers should be offered to village deities. But   members all on a sudden erected the sacred pole on their own on Sunday morning and started preparations for jallikattu, they alleged. 
 
 Jallikattu became a reality because people from all walks of lives including students participated in it. “It should be conducted by the village committee in harmony with all sections of village but the ruling party members have been trying to project it as their function”, rued R Govindaraj, vice-chairman of the village committee. “While students and villagers were protesting and coming under the blows of police lathis over jallikattu, where were these party men?” questioned P   from the village. 
 
 The villagers also threatened that they will hold a separate jallikattu if AIADMK members didn’t relent and allow them to conduct the event. “It is not a ruling party event but village festival associated with multiple rituals. AIADMK members can’t run the show all on their own”, said S P Ganesamurthy from the village. 
 
 The group of villagers who petitioned the district administration consisted of members representing various political parties. After submitting the petition the villagers said that the collector assured them that he would talk to the ruling party members. Later in the evening, DMK members from the village met the collector separately. Meanwhile, district collector K Veera Raghava Rao will be convening a meeting with Alanganallur villagers to review the arrangements for jallikattu. On Monday, he reviewed preparations at Palamedu for the event scheduled on February 9. 
 
