KOCHI: A 10-year-old boy who had a congenital problem called recurrent hydronephrosis has begun living a normal life after he was successfully operated upon in a city hospital, using robotic surgery.

 Hydronephrosis is a condition that occurs when the size of the kidney increases due to the failure of normal drainage of urine from the kidney to the bladder. It was for the first time in the state that robotic surgery was used for kidney blockages. The child was brought to the Amrita Institute of Medical Sciences (AIMS) with severe abdominal pain. His family informed that he had first undergone a surgery for the blockage in his kidney when he was four years old. Despite the surgery , the child continued to have problems.
 
 Ultra sound examination showed increase in size of the kidney suggesting obstruction. A nuclear scan was performed that confirmed the finding. The doctors found that the child's right kidney was damaged with only 34% of it functioning. If left untreated, the kidneys could have become permanently damaged. The doctors diagnosed the problem as ureteropelvic junction (UPJ) obstruction. UPJ is a partial or total blockage at the point where the organ that produces urine (the kidney) and the tube that carries it to the bladder (the ureter) are joined.
 
 Though the traditional method is to go for laparoscopic procedure, the doctors decided that the procedure would be very difficult to perform laparoscopically since tissues would get stuck together because of the previous surgery.
 
 It was then that the doctors at AIMS decided to go for a robotic surgery. “The 3D vision makes it easier to distinguish structures. Also, robotic surgery is more versatile than laparoscopic surgery because of the mobility of the robotic arms. In this particular case, after a surgery there will be lot of adhesion and distortion of anatomy ,“ said paediatric surgeon Dr Mohan Abraham, who led the team that operated upon the child.
 
 “We wanted precise surgery and better vision. With the help of 3D vision and magnification, the block was completely removed. The child is now cured of the problem,“ added Dr Abraham.
 
