AHMEDABAD:   high court on Thursday gave schools affiliated with the   (CBSE) temporary relief in implementation of the new fee regulation law for private schools. This happened during hearing of the petition filed by a federation of such schools challenging the constitutional validity of Gujarat Self-financed School (Regulation of Fees) Act.

 The high court extended the deadline for submitting fee details, from May 25 to June 15, for CBSE-affiliated schools. The details include accounts of the school which are to be submitted to the   constituted on Thursday under the provisions of the new law. 
 
 This has practically stayed the fee fixation process in CBSE affiliated schools, said advocate   who represented Prakash Higher Secondary School.
 
 These private, self-financed schools have taken strong objection to the order asking schools which charge fees higher than the fixed caps, to submit proposal for approval of their fee structure to the committee.
 
 CBSE schools’ federation submitted that the new law has created a suffocating environment which works to nobody’s advantage. This law does not aim at providing impetus to school education but rather strangulates private schools.
 
 The federation further argued that when the state government does not allocate more funds for the education sector, it must not try to choke financial resources to the private sector in this field. The new law will only dry up private investment in the education sector. Moreover, the government had failed to provide quality education in its schools, the petitioners argued.
 
 The federation has also objected to the new law by stating that the state government is not legislatively competent to bring such a law for CBSE schools whose fee structure is already governed by another regulatory body.
 
 Prakash School submitted that it is a minority institution and is regulated by a different law. There cannot be two authorities to regulate such schools’ fee structure. This law will only result in depriving private schools of financial resources.
 
 The petitioners have contended that the new law, which the government aims to impose on CBSE schools, is against their constitutional and fundamental rights.
 
 The state government defended by submitting that the law had been passed to curb private schools from charging exorbitant fees.
 
 The high court also asked the petitioners to send their suggestions regarding the fee regulation law and rules to the state government by June 15. Further hearing is fixed for June 12.
 
