NEW DELHI: Following in the   government’s footsteps, East Delhi Municipal Corporation has decided to clamp down on   where animals are butchered for meat. 

 According to an EDMC estimate, there are around 2,500   facilities across east Delhi where slaughtering of poultry and animals takes place and most of these function in extremely unhygienic conditions.
 
 According to the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals ( ) Rules, 2001, any facility/establishment where more than five animals (even more than five poultry) are slaughtered every day comes under the category “slaughterhouse”.
 
 A senior EDMC veterinary department official said apart from one big authorised slaughterhouse in Ghazipur, which has the capacity to slaughter 15,000 animals in three shifts each day, no other slaughterhouse has facilities for mechanised killing of animals. No facility where animals, including poultry, are slaughtered has a dressing plant, treatment effluent plant or a plant to treat the unsold offal of animals. 
 
 The law requires every facility where more than five animals are killed every day to have all such facilities.
 
 “All illegal slaughterhouses or facilities where slaughtering takes place will be closed down in a special drive we are going to launch soon. In the special crackdown all such illegal facilities will be sealed. It will be apart from a routine exercise and strict action will be taken against illegal facilities which kill animals for meat,” EDMC mayor Neema Bhagat said.
 
 A veterinary department official said there are 937 licensed facilities in East Delhi (402 in Shahdra South and 535 in Shahdra North) where slaughtering is allowed, but over the years a large number of such facilities have opened up without licenses. “In these unlicensed facilities, and also in many of the licensed facilities, slaughtering is a manual process; they dump the waste meat in the open and also dispose of the dirty water anywhere. The shops are a big health hazard,” said Bhagat.
 
 In Ghazipur, Seelampur, Jafrabad and other areas, especially in the northern parts of East Delhi, the rampant slaughter of animals overtakes that in the southern part.
 
 The law provides for the lodging of an FIR and a fine on the facilities where illegal slaughter takes place; Rs 1,000 is the fine for illegally slaughtering poultry, Rs 2,000 for goats and sheep, and Rs 10,000 for slaughtering buffalo and cows. According to the rules, no meat shop is allowed to slaughter animals, but it is common practice at such shops to slaughter poultry, and even goats, especially at shops in JJ clusters.
 
 The mayor said protests were not expected but for the sealing exercise EDMC officials would still take along police personnel.
 
 For Abdul Rehman, leader of the opposition in the EDMC, the planned exercise is being done to please the political bosses of the BJP leaders in the corporation. “Action should be taken against illegal facilities where animals are slaughtered, but the corporation should not ignore other, more important jobs, like tackling the issue of the Ghazipur landfill site,” Rehman said.
 
