NAGPUR: There is disconnect between bureaucracy and scientists when it comes to solving environmental issues. But scientists need to be more forward. In the wake of an environmental disaster, the executives find it difficult to solve the problem and turn to scientists. But scientists need time to research on the subject before they arrive at a conclusion, said Rakesh  , director of National Environmental Engineering Research Institute ( ), on Friday.

 By the time they are done, the bureaucrats are transferred and the problem starts and therefore scientists must initiate a formal dialogue with the state and central governments, Kumar said while addressing a symposium on ‘Interdisciplinary approaches towards environmental management’ at Neeri auditorium. Seven research students of Neeri gave presentations on environment protection on the occasion. 
 
 The purpose of this symposium is to bring students of chemistry, bio-technology, physics and other research fields together so that they can share the perspectives on environmental protection from their areas. This way, one can look at a bigger picture about its management, said Kumar.
 
 According to Kumar, proper environmental management will be possible when it is practised at the grass-roots level. “At some places in India, it is evident that people have adopted eco-friendly practices in solid waste management in their locality. That is because they have realized the repercussions of haphazard management not only on environment but also on their personal health,” he said.
 
 “We have come a long way in protecting our environment but there is still a need to spread more awareness,” added Kumar.
 
 Solid waste management has become a difficult topic to understand than water management because not much attention has been paid to it, opined Kumar. “People get worried when there is looming water shortage, so they start making prior arrangement. However, once waste is dumped, it is forgotten, which shouldn’t be the case,” he said.
 
 Kumar suggested introducing a value-based system for waste management. He said, “If each prabhag in the city is graded on the basis of how well citizens there dispose their waste we could see an overall improvement. So, in order for citizens in one prabhag to seek resolutions to other issues by the civic body, they will need to maintain a good rating.”
 
 Head of technical cell at   said 70 students had submitted their presentations for the symposium out of which seven were selected. Students discussed topic on water and air pollution as well as waste management.
 
