 is a teetotaler. But the octogenarian is a regular at wine shops in Salem city. Clad in a crispy white pyjama-kurta and a Gandhi cap, he would wait outside the shop and the moment someone steps out, he would fall at their feet. "I plead you to quit drinking," he would say, leaving the person stunned. In 2015, Gandhi completed 1330 days of this ‘satyagraha’ against alcohol. The result was not as remarkable as his way of protest though. Neither the drinkers nor the government changed their course. Franklin’s contemporary anti-liquor crusader Sasi Perumal too chose the Gandhian way and died during one such peaceful protest.

 But, gone are the days when a Gandhi or a Perumal try to cajoling drinkers through non-violent ways. The current spell of anti-Tasmac protests instead seems to be taking an increasingly violent turn following the Supreme Court order to shut down liquor shops within 500m of highways. Sociologists say the violence is a manifestation of the pent up anger of the public against the toxic role of alcohol in breaking the social fabric, suppression of peaceful protests and the state government’s brazen attempt to circumvent the apex court’s order
 
 Recently, a newly set-up Tasmac outlet, reopened close to a residential area and a highway, was ransacked by the public at Muthalipalayam in Tirupur district. Half a dozen similar incidents where residents including women set upon liquor outlets were reported from across the state around the same time.
 
 "When public protest peacefully, government authorities disperse them after promising to close the shop. But the shop opens a few days later under police protection. This is why people have lost hope in peaceful protests," says People’s Union of Civil Liberties S Balamurugan. He says lately, the government’s effort has been to crush  . "While protestors are usually booked on charges of unlawful assembly under bailable sections, police have now started slapping non-bailable sections on them".
 
 Since Sasiperumal’s era, protests have moved from the grip of political parties to that of the public. While political parties follow the established forms of protests, the public resorts to violence in retaliation to government repression. Experts say the public found legitimacy in its protests following the Supreme Court’s order, emboldening it to ransack Tasmac outlets.
 
 "In several case studies of trade union violence, there is a long history of repression of workers’ rights, coupled with low wages and long working hours. This pent up frustration would explode as violence one day. Tasmac protests are more or less similar,’’ says sociologist Samuel Asir Raj.
 
 Raj says it is the state that fosters violence. He says the futility of peaceful protests — the farmer protests for instance – eggs people to try take on violent ways. 
 
 At a time when political, NGOs and the public have found consensus – a usually unlikely proposition in Tamil Nadu – in the Supreme Court’s order, the state government’s recent order asking various departments including the state highways to hand over roads under their jurisdiction to the respective corporations/municipalities, is being seen by many as a ploy to circumvent the apex court’s ruling. 
 
 Members of Tasmac employees union meanwhile say the government is clear on reopening all the 3220   that were closed following the apex court’s orders. "We have been asked to identify alternative sites 500 metres away from highways and send the names to the government before May 15. But, wherever we go scouting for alternative locations, there is a heavy opposition from locals," said a Tasmac officer. 
 
 But more than the revenue, it is the alleged politician-bureaucracy nexus that is driving the move to reopen the shops. Activists say most of the bars are run by people who in turn are backed by politicians. They say the government’s keenness to reopen the shops has been evident in places where Tasmac supervisors have themselves come forward to invest in new buildings for the outlets. 
 
 Caught in the firing line are Tasmac employees. "More than 15,000 employees are jobless since the supreme court order came into effect. We do support total prohibition. But the government should provide us an alternative form of employment too," says N Ramasundaram, a Tasmac employee and state deputy general secretary of Pattali Thozhirsangam Peravai.
 
 The continuing violence, however, may not augur well for the democracy, say experts. "If the government continues suppressing protests instead of listening to public grievances, the results will only be disastrous," says Balamurugan.
 
 Meanwhile, Franklin Azad Gandhi set out on a march from Salem on May 1 to Chennai to meet the ministers and request them to close down Tasmac shops. "I am hopeful," says the 85-year-old. 
 
