CHENNAI: Uttam Kumar Bhardwaj has never been to Varanasi, but on canvas he manages to bring alive every detail of the ghats in the holy city — with just his left foot. The man from Jammu’s   district doesn’t allow   to limit him and considers art to be his lifeline. Displaying his work in the city as part of a charity show ‘Never Say Die Art & Artists’ at Sarala’s Art Centre, he is among four talented artists who refuse to restrained by physical impairments.

 Propping himself on a chair above the canvas, Bhardwaj’s brushstrokes tell the story of a man with grit and courage that very few can muster. He supports his family of aged parents, a teenage daughter with a brain tumour and a son with a heart condition. “I don’t think too much of what has thrown at me. Art has become my lifeline providing me with a livelihood and recognition,” says the self-taught artist, who now has a verified Twitter handle and a Wikipedia page to his name.
 
 Pushing the limits is a common thread between the artists. City-based K Narasimhalu, who has cerebral palsy, moved from watercolours to embroidery. Using both toes, the 41-year-old tells works the needle, eats, talks and moves his made-to-order mobile stool. “Abandoned as a child, he was brought to the   when he was seven. But he has always wanted to be independent and treated his disability only as a physical limitation,” says former head of Andhra Mahila Sabha Akkama Krishnamoothy and Narasimhalu’s guardian. “His only aspiration now is to find a companion who will share a life with him,” she adds.
 
 Talking about the indomitable spirit of the artists V S Ramana, founder of   and organiser of the exhibition, stresses on the need to look at them as talented individuals and provide them tools that will hone their talent. “These are people who are self-inspired despite a total setback on body systems. Their art in no way shows their physical condition and their works need to be celebrated,” says Ramana, who is organising the 8th edition of the show with the four disabled artists and has raised Rs14 lakh till now.
 
 While art is the only form of expression from hearing and speech impaired Suvedha Ganesh, it works as therapy for R Udhayakumar. Spinal muscular atrophy restricts the mobility of his hand to the right, thumb and index finger but his mind likes to take on new challenges. At the exhibition which is on from September 28 to 30 and October 3 to 5 he has tried some Van Gogh-inspired paintings. All the proceeds go to the artists and being a charity show the payments are eligible for tax exemption under 80G.
 
