
 Let’s not forget the extreme restriction on   we faced last year, from swimming pools in the city being shut to parts of the state being in complete dire straits as result of a drought. Thanks to the good rainfall we received last monsoon, the four major dams that supply water to Pune city — Panshet, Varasgaon, Khadakwasla and Temghar — have sufficient water. Times are good, but summer is only knocking on our doors at the moment, and one will never know what this year’s monsoons have in store.

 
 The civic authorities are clear that there won’t be any extra release of water for the festival. V Kulkarni, chief engineer of PMC’s Water Supply and Pumping Department, said, “We will be releasing 1300 million litres, which is the standard amount per day. I’d however advise citizens to be judicious and not waste water.” Raosaheb Shinde, section engineer of Khadakwasla Irrigation Division, adds that the amount of water available in the dams will suffice for the city’s drinking purpose till July 31. “Considering this, one should exercise caution before wasting water,” said Shinde.
 
  
  
 According to a report in The Times of India, dated March 10, 2017, several villages in districts of Maharashtra, like Aurangabad, Sangli, Satara, Jalna and Dhule, are already facing drinking water shortage, though summer is yet to fully set in. The report noted that the state water supply department has already had to deploy 77 tankers to meet the demands of over 82 villages.
 
 
 According to reports,   hosting rain dances on a commercial scale would need to take prior permission and pay entertainment tax if the event is ticketed. Sonal Sabnis, a resident of Pimple Saudagar, questions how this will help track the amount of water wastage. “How will permission and entertainment tax measure the amount of water these organisers will be wasting during Holi? A strict cap or check must be in place. Not all organisers may be responsible enough.” Meanwhile Wanowrie-based student Akansha Singh, says, “We had decent rainfall last year, but how can we be sure we’ll have good rainfall this time round? Water should continue to be conserved for the coming months. I, for one, won’t be patronising any of the rain dances. They just don’t make sense.”
 
  
  
 The craving to play with water with the soaring temperatures notwithstanding, societies have issued notices to their members to avoid water wastage, this time too. Sushil Sahu, of Kumar Pragati Housing Society in NIBM area, says, “For the past three years, we have been issuing notices asking members to be considerate about water usage for the festival. Children being children, do not adhere easily, but as adults, it’s our duty to educate them.” Attempts will be made to teach the 20-30 society children about water conservation. “We’re coming up with ways to also promote the use of dry herbal colours that come off easily,” he adds.
 
 At Green Acres Housing Society on Salunke Vihar Road, the swimming pool is off-limits during Holi, as is always. Society secretary Saroj Saxena informs, “Four years ago, the society children jumped into the pool after playing with colour. Not only was cleaning the pool an arduous task, but a lot of water was wasted. Since then, we have been restricting the Holi celebration to a dedicated space in the society.” The society has issued a notice asking society members to reduce water wastage during the celebrations.
 
  
  
 
 
 Though several youngsters are insisting on a ‘waterless’ Holi, event managers are cashing in on the fact that no notice has been sent to refrain from rain dances. A Holi party in Koregaon Park has arranged for three tankers. Sanjay Agarwal, one of the organisers, shared, “Each has a capacity of 10,000 litres. Unlike last year, we will have water spray sessions every hours, for a duration of 10 minutes.” 
 
 As most Holi parties ran dry last year, organisers are going all out to make up for it this time. Another private party in the city will arrange for six drums of 100 litres of water each. Organiser 
 Santosh Gupta said, “Water will be sprayed for two hours. Since it is too early to presume there won’t be water shortage for the rest of the year, we will be using recycled water,” Another organiser, on conditions of anonymity, shared, “This year, we are going all out with rain dances and water tankers. Pool parties will also take place at hotels where there are swimming pools. Organisers want to make up for losses they suffered last year.” 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
