It is perhaps unfair that there is so much scrutiny of Derrick Pereira’s performance at   this season. He has been in charge for just two matches and has to make do with whatever little he has, but as is the nature of football, it is the coach who carries the greatest burden.
 
  Not that Derrick would mind but sometimes it’s unnerving. He has done well so far: A 3-0 win in the last game against DSK Shivajians to make up for the 4-5 loss against Minerva Punjab FC but in reality it is the next clash – against   on Saturday – that will really show if   have indeed made progress.
  
  “Since Derrick took charge, there are a lot of changes. The attitude, style and formation has changed,” observes Mohun Bagan coach Sanjoy Sen, himself no alien to relentless pressure from the Bagan faithful.
  
  There is a change in the personnel too, and approach. The team now stays in a hotel on the eve of home matches, enjoys breakfast together as well while those who have been assigned new roles on the field – goalkeeper  , defender  , midfielders   and   – have all flourished.
  
  “There is scope for improvement. If you want to fight against teams like Mohun Bagan and East Bengal, who we play in our next two matches, you have to be at your best, particularly with defending. Also going forward, there are a lot of areas to improve,” said Derrick.
  
  One team that is making definite progress is Mohun Bagan. The Kolkata side are favourites to win this edition of the I-League and nothing would taste sweeter if they did that by possibly snatching it right under the nose of arch-rivals East Bengal, who are now leading the table with 24 points from 11 matches. Mohun Bagan have 21 points from nine games.
  
  “We are vying for the title and you can call us one of the favourites. There are other teams who are playing quite well. But Bagan always play to become champions, whether it’s a local tournament or a tournament like I-League,” said Sen.
  
  Mohun Bagan can move back to the top of the table with a win in Goa, although Sen admitted it wouldn’t be easy.
  
  “When you are playing a team which is close to the bottom, it’s always difficult. They are playing for survival and to survive, they can do anything. It’s difficult for us,” said Sen, who may opt for   as his defensive midfielder in place of the injured Pronay Halder. 
