Chandigarh: The Congress government is working on a plan to transfer the subsidy amount payable for the actual cost of consumption of electricity, directly into the bank accounts of the farmers.

 Sources said a formal proposal would be put forward in the forthcoming agriculture livelihood policy of Punjab with details of the alternate method of transferring the subsidy.
 
 According to experts, there is need to re-evaluate the real benefits to farmers due to agri subsidies of approximately Rs 9,000 crore being budgeted towards free electricity, water, irrigation and procurement expenditure considering the fact that these subsidies are not taken into account while calculating minimum support price (MSP) for procurement under public distribution system (PDS).
 
 “Details of the alternative mechanism are yet to be formally considered. However, there will be no reduction in the amount of subsidy and for farmers the benefit will continue in the same way,” said an official.
 
 The move follows the industry making a case for change in the present mechanism. “Direct transfer to the account of farmer towards payment of actual cost of consumption of electricity and water would engineer efficient use of resources and also save approximately Rs 2,000 crore to the exchequer every year. These costs would then get factored into the calculation of the MSP,” said a recommendation made by PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry to the Punjab government recently.
 
 Non-inclusion of the cost of water and electricity in the calculation of the MSP has resulted in the benefits intended for the farmers of Punjab, getting appropriated towards subsidization of the PDS procurement. The current value of this appropriation over a period of 21 years may be more than the total estimated debt of the state and its farmers, points out Jagjit Singh Kochar, adviser (economic sector), Punjab committee, PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry.
 
 According to the Congress manifesto released before the last assembly elections, the party had announced to continue with subsidized power to farmers and had decided to go a step further by announcing farm loan waiver for small and marginal farmers.
 
 Power subsidy bill in Punjab is likely to cross Rs 10,000 crore during the current fiscal year as per the tariff order of the Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission (PSERC). It has worked out a total subsidy of Rs 7,598.10 crore, including the previous year arrears of Rs 1,233.61 crore.
 
 
