In wide-brimmed hat, tattoos, a faint swagger and a not-so-faint machismo, the musical power trio that goes by the name   also has a  . “We're avoiding anything that looks like a buffet table. We got in this morning and have already had five rounds of the buffet, eating chutney. If we don't leave the table, we'll become the Supersonic `rolling' Machine!“ exclaims  , mixer and bassist for the band.

 Political cor rectness be damned. “He's from another planet, we don't know this guy! I love chicken tikka masala,“ says Billy Gibbons with a smile. He is one-third of the rock-n-roll hall of fame band ZZ Top, running his skinny fingers through strands of that iconic ginger beard that he recently got insured. Meanwhile, guitarist-lead singer Lance Lopez is debating about his next food trail, “Vada Pao or fish?“ Grossi explains: “We've been a big fan of Indian art, culture, a big fan of Indian art, culture, history and food. So, to be here and be a part of the reality that is Mumbai is really fantastic.“
 
 The reality has been overwhelming too. “We had quite the culture shock. The colours, the aromas, the noise... I wonder if there's a word for it that can put this experience in perspective,“ says Gibbons, who arrived before his other bandmates and was taken by surprise when stopped by friendly passers-by and quizzed about their headlining act at this year's Mahindra Blues Fest. “It was quite surprising and very rewarding. We've got to raise the bar and step it up,“ he says, looking at his bandmates.
 
 Clearly, the city with its sights, sounds and smells has been tripping up this magic mix of bluesmen who have joined forces to keep the American musical phenomenon from falling in stature.
 
 It was in 2012 when Lopez and Grossi hooked up in Los Angeles to work on some new ideas that led to a whirlwind day in the studio and the foundation of a new project. The third part of the core was Indiana native drummer Kenny Aronoff, who joined the family next. A list of pioneering collaborators--Gibbons, Walter Trout, Warren Haynes, Robben Ford, Eric Gales and Chris Duarte--propelled it further.
 
 Their debut album West of Flushing, South of Frisco that released in 2015 is a sprawling and emotional journey that flits through different styles that Fabrizio would rather define as “50 shades of blues“ before his Italian genes kick in. “Blues, it's like pasta. You can add bolognese, tomato or clams, but the main ingredient is pasta!“ Even as days fly by with each one getting busy with their own gigs, Supersonic offers a breath of fresh air, they say. “We maintain the spirit of a jam,“ says Grossi. “What matters eventually is whether you're enjoying every moment of rehearsing, performing and hanging out,“ says Gibbons. “We do.“
 
