KOCHI: With more incidents of deaths allegedly due to medical negligence being reported from the government medical college,  , the demand for setting up a committee to identify the issues plaguing the hospital is getting louder. Though the director of medical education (DME) had deployed a committee to look in to the reasons that led to the death Jerin, the medical college authorities are yet to conduct any internal inquiry. 

 Soon after the death of  , a second year MBBS student of the medical college, allegedly due to medical negligence, the DME had entrusted a committee to look into the issue. Dr  , additional DME, had then submitted a report pointing out failures on the part of the medical college. "It is for the second time that such an incident has been reported. So, the causes which lead to such issues should be examined. That's why we have sent a letter to the Union government seeking their intervention," said Dr   of Justice Krishna Iyer Movement. The government should find out ways to address the issues, he said.
 
 Following the hue and cry over the death of Shamna, the state government had allotted Rs 1.1 crore for arranging basic requirements in wards. "The wards were lacking in equipment like stretchers, wheelchairs and suction apparatus. Using the funds alloted by the government, we procured them," an official said. 
 
 A defunct escalator had contributed to the delay in shifting Jerin to the ICU. According to hospital administration officials, escalators would conk out every now and then. "We had asked the PWD authorities to replace these escalators with new ones. But they said the machines were just 14-years-old and can't be replaced with new ones before they complete 25 years post-installation. So, we had requested the PWD to provide another escalator for shifting patients to ICU," the official said.
 
 According to the medical superintendent of the medical college, the faculty and staff had been discharging duties without any failure. "In the case of Jerin, a probe is on and so I can't comment on it. Normally, our staff and doctors provide their best services to the patients," said Dr Anil Kumar, medical superintendent.
 
 Former chief minister   and Anwar Sadath MLA visited the relatives of Jerin on Tuesday.
 
