A big part of filmmaking is gathering a group of people you can work with, Lenny Abrahamson, director of Oscar-winning film Room, once said. And back home in  , there are only a few directors who have proved this time and again. Directors who have stayed true to their craft and have got their work done, firmly believing in what they do. 

 Today, with seven films to his credit, director   seems to fall into this groove. All set with his next venture, the Vishal-starrer  , the poised and straightforward director avers that the project is special to him in several ways. He speaks in detail about how the film was something which he has been wanting to do for a long time, why he loves being a storyteller, his emotional side, the need to read books, and why he doesn’t regret anything in life, in a candid chat with us.
 
 
 The film is about a detective, named Kaniyan Poongundranar. Perhaps, it is the most heroic character to have ever graced my films. When I got exposed to literature, one of the things which attracted me in the early stages, was the persona of Sherlock Holmes. It had a deep influence on me. It is difficult to establish the traits of his character in films — be it his histrionics, chemistry with Watson, his working style... I wanted to portray a Tamil detective equipped with martial art skills, sharp acumen and intelligence, someone who has his own way of finding clues and solving mysteries. This is an out-and-out detective film, which has space for humour and romance, too.
 
 
 The detective played by   in this film is very sharp and leads a lifestyle quite different from normal human beings. He is always super busy and his prime purpose in life is to solve mysteries. He’s a misanthrope who is not interested in girls — he has lived alone so far, the only exception being his partner, the character played by Prasanna. Then comes a woman into his life. Their relationship deepens and turns interesting. It isn’t the usual romance, I’m sure people will love that part. It has a few lighter moments, too.
 
 
 We were supposed to work together long ago. I had different versions of script for this film. He was thrilled when I narrated the final version to him. There is an emotional scene which Vishal has enacted beautifully. I’m impressed with his dedication and discipline. He came for the rehearsals and wanted to understand my perception of filmmaking. His belief in me and flexibility in action scenes have amazed me. I’m happy that we worked together. We share a good friendship.
  
 
 Yes, they couldn’t be a part of it because of date issues. Anu Emmanuel and Andrea replaced them. Being a fresh face, Anu, I felt, was more apt for the story. Andrea, as a femme fatale in the film, did her part beautifully.
 
 
 I have been wanting to do a film in detective genre from the time I started my career. I did Yuddham Sei with  , which was an investigative thriller. But a detective story is quite different. This detective has got an identity card, a certified license and a board which reads ‘Thupparivalan’. I don’t know whether Tamil cinema has had stories of private detectives. I’m happy with the way the film has come out. 
 
 
 The intense emotions in our hearts often appear dark to me. It all depends on the subject at hand. For example, if I make a film with the title Pasi or Sirai, I think it has to be dark. But Thupparivalan will be in a lighter way; comparatively fast-paced and quite entertaining. But there will be disturbing moments which will surprise the viewers. The film will be the most entertaining work of mine till date.
 
 
 My passion and dedication towards filmmaking has never ceased. In fact, it has increased 200 times now. I still feel that I’m a five-year-old child. The entire process of making a film gives meaning to life. The difference in all these years is that I am no more worried about success. Today, I’m more concerned about taking interesting and valuable stories to the audience. The questions which I keep asking myself are ‘Why do I keep writing stories? Why I chose a particular story from the list I have?’ I’m yet to get an enlightening answer. I believe in a spiritual connection with audience. When I say spirituality, it has nothing to do with God. For example, the scene in Pisaasu, where the father encounters his daughter’s spirit, asking her to forgive him, has a spiritual element.
 
 
 Everybody has the right to criticise. I have crossed that stage where a filmmaker eagerly awaits the reviews of critics. I’m 46 years old now. I think that I can earn respect and satisfaction if I write a story with utmost sincerity. All I’m concerned is about adding aesthetics, grace and rhythm to my stories. Real life is chaotic, hence people always find relief in watching films or listening stories. In general, I don’t watch television or read magazines or newspaper. I get to know about the day-to-day happenings through my assistants. I do not get carried away by praise or criticism.
 
 
 The result of the film is always a suspense. We have to wait for it. But like I said earlier, the magnitude of success or failure does not affect me. It is up to the audience to judge it. 
 
 
 No, never. I do not ask anyone whether they have watched my films. I know they respect my movies and my experiments. I have a decent support from my family, I mean the filmy family. I’m moved by their respect and love when I meet them at events.
 
 
 I’m planning a film based on serial killings — I have done extensive research on it. Then I want to do a sci-fi film. A period film, too, is in my list.
 
 
 I like it that way. Though when it comes to writing, I concentrate only on one project at a time, my mind will keep gathering the required materials for the varied stories I intend to film. I now have 100 books for the sci-fi project I’m planning to make.
 
 
 Bringing people to theatre has become a big challenge now. But I feel that this theatre culture will always prevail as it is an unmatchable experience. A theatre is like a temple, or a church or a mosque to me. Every child requires a story. The number of storytelling grandmothers is on a decline, and hence, there will be a thirst for stories. There will be a form of projection, perhaps the system or techniques may differ.
 
 
 There is still no awareness on its repercussions. Audience should understand that watching films is not a mere entertainment. I feel that a person who is exposed to great classics won’t be violent in nature. Now this could be an exaggerated statement, too. But I truly believe that there are movies which could transform you. Ikiru, Seven Samurai, Out Of Africa, One Flew Over the Cuckoo’s Nest, Pather Panchali are few such films which have the power to change your life.
 
 
 I don’t want to use the term ‘successful’ while talking about my works. I work hard and my audience have reciprocated. I’m glad that they never look up to my films for just entertainment. One can’t expect to lay back and have popcorn while watching my films. They should be very attentive throughout.
 
 
 I have high hopes on the new team as they are working in an efficient way. Vishal should be appreciated for the genuine effort he puts in. He works round the clock and takes up responsibilities sincerely.
 
 
 I’m a very emotional man. That is what people say. You can see videos of me screaming and cursing on YouTube. I have never hurt anyone purposefully. I’m a person who craves for silence. I would like to keep quiet for several years. But being an emotional person and having been born with a vocal cord, I engage in conversations, speak my mind and express anguish over various things which bother me. The reason could be that I’m a writer or a filmmaker who believes in spirituality. I believe that the process of storytelling enriches me as a human being.
 
 
 I was born in a poverty-stricken family, which I consider a boon today. I thank my parents for that. There were many sufferings without which I believe life would be incomplete. Even in my films, the protagonists who undergo several problems rise like a Christ towards the end. This is a perpetual theme addressed again and again in movies. You can’t remain heartbroken over something forever. Life has to go on. So I regret that there are no regrets. 
 
 
 
 
