MUMBAI: A   on Tuesday passed two interim orders that were like a win each for former model   and her estranged partner  , caught in a   tussle since 2014.

 Paes succeeded in one plea that Pillai filed, while she succeeded in the other. Rahul Sarkale, the magistrate, rejected her interim plea for maintenance from Paes but allowed her other plea and directed the tennis ace to “produce authenticated copies of income-tax returns from 2005-06 to 2017-18,   and complaint he filed for loss of passport’’.
 
 The magistrate observed that “prima facie’’ in an admission in her plea it seemed that Paes “pays regularly for daily necessities as well as electricity and medical expenses’’. “So, there is no need to pass an order for interim maintenance when the main domestic violence plea is expedited by the apex court,’’ the magistrate said.
 
 “The interim maintenance was to prevent vagrancy and destitution… By this application, I do not find any urgent need,’’ said his order.
 
 Through lawyers Gunjan Mangla and Amna Usman, Pillai had pleaded for interim maintenance and pointed out that Paes had “unilaterally” dropped her name as ‘spouse’ from his passport in 2014 when he made a new one while in the US, after claiming he had lost his old one which was valid till 2018.
 
 Paes’ lawyers, Aabad Ponda and Ishwar Nankani, had argued that she was filing interim applications to delay cross-examination. The court said the matter would proceed on a day-to-day basis. The order means that she would soon need to step in the witness box.
 
 Rhea was in the ground floor court room in the Bandra metropolitan court. In 2014, she had filed a complaint against Paes and his father, who was present too, accusing them of committing domestic violence acts against her while she was in a “live-in relationship’’ with him. She had sought Rs 1 crore in compensation and protective orders to remain at The Jackers building on Carter Road, Bandra (W).
 
 Paes had denied her allegations and contested her claim of theirs even being termed a live-in relationship.
 
 Rhea had claimed she spent on ‘shared household’ expenses and that Paes had not returned money he borrowed from her. The court said that whether money was given or not “requires evidence during trial’’ and cannot be decided at the interim stage sans evidence.
 
 
