AHMEDABAD:  , a   of Andhra Pradesh, who has been absconding for seven years in a case registered under Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) against him and 23 others in  , Surat district, had plans to stage an armed insurrection in Gujarat, according to cops. 

 ATS officials said Vyankatam, who was an   (Maoist) and zonal head of  , now runs a magazine which sympathizes with the Naxalite movement. He had come to Surat in 2010. "During his stay in Surat he used to instigate migrant labourers and tribals against the government," said an ATS source.
 
 "During his ten months stay in Surat, he established various unregistered organizations as a cover for his disruptive activities in south Gujarat and north Maharashtra. He also used to send his cadres, spread across 90 to 100 such organizations, for firearm training in jungle areas," said an ATS official.
 
 ATS sources said Vyankatam, who had joined the Peoples War Group (PWG), right from his college days, was the alleged mastermind of the 2003 Alimari Kalemor mine blast detonated with an intention to eliminate the then chief minister of AP, Chandrababu Naidu. A case of attempt to murder was registered against him.
 
 "Vyankatam had also resorted to extortion for collecting funds for Naxalite activities mainly in Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh. A total of 36 offences have been registered against him across the country" said a senior ATS official.
 
 ATS sources said Vyankatam , who was planning to set up a political outfit was first arrested in 2007 from Odisha, but had to be freed in 2011 after his sympathizers kidnapped district collector Vinil Krishna demanding Vyankatam's release.
 
 A total of 24 accused were booked by Kamrej police Surat for carrying out Naxalite activities in the area. "Twenty of them were earlier arrested. We first arrested Tushar Bhattacharya, about a month ago, and now Vyankatam," said an ATS official, adding, "Kabod Gandhi and Seema Irani are still absconding. Irani's husband has already been arrested in the case."
 
