PUNE:   remains incomplete,   still continues and pruning of   is still in progress -the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is evidently not prepared to face the  

 Pre-monsoon showers over the last weekend exposed the civic body's claim that its preparations were in place.
 
 Over 195km of roads in the city were to be dug up. Various private cell phone companies and government agencies had been permitted to lay cables and pipelines by April 30, which is the deadline to complete the works. However, even a fortnight after the target date, the works are still underway .
 
 “We have given an extension to road digging works. A number of government agencies have demanded more time to lay cables and pipes.They also need some time to test the facilities they are providing,“ said Rajendra Raut, head of PMC's road department. In the past, several companies have not paid heed to the deadlines. Illegal road digging have led to traffic issues, particularly during the monsoon.
 
 The roads were to be restored before May 31 but that too is likely to extend. “The repair work continues parallel to the digging works. We hope that it will be completed soon,“ Raut stated.
 
 Nullah cleaning works, being carried out by 15 ward offices, is also progressing at a slow pace. According to sources, the cleaning process is expected to be complete by May .Nevertheless, in certain areas, cleaning hasn't even started.
 
 “The timetable has not been followed this year. Some offices are yet to start cleaning. If the work is not completed in time, clogged nullahs may lead to water logging,“ said a civic official. “All ward offices have been instructed to complete the works before it begins to rain. Tenders and work orders were issued on time, so we hope to finish the cleaning without any delay ,“ said Jagdish Khanore, executive engineer of PMC.
 
 Khanore added that apart from routine cleaning works, PMC has undertaken a massive stormwater drainage management project. Major spots, where water accumulates, are to be dealt with in this project. Nearly 100 such places have already been repaired to help reduce water logging. In the days to come, the civic body will spend over Rs400 crore for the initiative.
 
 Residents demand better power services
 
 Fed up of frequent power cuts, a group of Baner and Balewadi residents recently made a representation of their problems before the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) officials and sought preventive action before the onset of monsoon.
 
 The commissioning of the switching station (already inaugurated) near Comfort Zone residential society, an office of the power supply company in their area with senior officials and computerized operations were prominent among the demands. The residents also demanded a 220KV sub-station for the area to ensure uninterrupted electricity.
 
 “It is important that officials pinpoint the problems and rectify them permanently,“ said  , a resident of the area. Additional executive engineer Vishnu Pawar posted at the company's Aundh office and local area engineer Dipak Babar attended the meeting.
 
 They assured the residents that the ongoing pre-monsoon maintenance work would be completed by the month-end, besides better service. The officials raised the problems they face in discharging their services, including road digging, damage to underground cables and dumping of garbage near feeder towers.
 
