NASHIK: The academic fraternity here is happy with state finance minister Sudhir Mungantiwar’s announcement to start the government agricultural college in the city, but there has been different views about the feasibility of the proposed institution. 

 Mungantiwar, while presenting the 2017-18 budget, announced that government agriculture colleges will be opened at three places across the state — Nashik, Yavatmal and Peth in Sangli district.
 
 “Having a government-run institute is always a welcome development for a city. But I wonder whether the agriculture college was really a necessity for Nashik. The success of the new college depends upon its capacity to solve problems of local farmers and giving opportunities to local students. Increasing the number of agriculture seats is not enough, but giving new opportunities of research with the use of modern technology should be achieved through it,” said Shivnath Borse, an agriculture expert from Chanwad. 
 
 In fact, Nashik division already has four government agriculture colleges and the proposed college will benefit to the students of Nashik district only. “Dhule, Nandurbar, Jalgaon and Ahmednagar already have government agriculture institutes with total 300 plus seats offering BSc and BTech courses. The new college in Nashik will add another 100-120 seats. However, it’s still a distant dream,” said Prof Anil Deshpande from a Annasaheb Shinde College of Agriculture, Ahmednagar. 
 
 Nashik also has four private agriculture colleges. K K Wagh College has more than four courses and 450 odd seats. Sources said the considerable number of seats in food technology, biotechnology, horticulture and some other courses remain vacant every year in private colleges. In such condition, the proposed government college may add some more vacant seats, say experts. 
 
 “As a student, learning in a government college is always an added advantage. You get several facilities, funds, scholarships and exposures on State and National level. I would like to see the   becoming a reality soon in Nashik,” said agriculture student  . 
 
 The announcement of new college also brought a ray of hope for professors and lecturers teaching in private colleges who are either on contractual basis or simply getting payments according to the lectures. 
 
 “When the new government institute comes, it brings new opportunities for teachers as well. I am not sure how many teachers will get jobs in the new college, but it has definitely generated positivity amongst us,” said Deepali Raut, who teaches in a private   in Nashik. Like all colleges in Nashik division, the proposed college would be attached to Mahatma Phule Agriculture University.
 
 
