After Delhi’s crackdown on those drinking in cars or in the open, it is now the   government’s turn to slap hefty fines on those fond of turning their cars into bars.

 The state government on Tuesday notified rules under the Punjab Excise Act, which provides for severe punishment for drinking in a vehicle — either parked or moving — in a park, along the road, garden or by a river.
 
 Consuming alcohol at these places would attract a   of Rs 5,000 while a repeat offence would invite a fine of Rs 10,000. Till now, violators could get away with only a fine of Rs 500. Violation of the law will now also lead to detention of the drinkers, confiscation of vehicle and the liquor. The new rule comes into effect immediately.
 
 Haryana’s excise and taxation minister Capt Abhimanyu announced this after the state cabinet approved the new policy. Incidents of road rage or accidents due to drunken driving are some of the reasons cited by the government for amending the law regarding drinking at public places.
 
 In case of any violation, an excise officer, not below the rank of an assistant excise and taxation officer, can detain the offender, liquor and the vehicle, and forward the case to the deputy excise and taxation commissioner (excise)-cum-collector of the district within 24 hours of detention.
 
 According to the minister, no penalty will be imposed without affording a reasonable opportunity to the offender or persons suspected to have committed the crime. In case the offender is found to have created nuisance after consumption of liquor, the case shall be referred to the court for trial.
 
 Reacting to this, Opposition parties -- Congress and INLD -- pointed out that increasing the penalty would not be a deterrent. “Everybody knows the punishment for murder, but these take place. The state needs to develop a mechanism which will instil fear in the mind of people as well as criminals. Increase in penalty would give cops another reason to harass the common man,” said INLD state president Ashok Kumar Arora. “ The first step should be parents educating their children as the government only comes into the picture when the law is infringed. We have enough infrastructure and this new law will empower police to check the menace of drinking at unauthorised places,’’ said additional chief secretary (Excise and Taxation) Sanjeev Kaushal.
 
 
