Being a toll booth employee at any of the plazas on the outskirts of Gurgaon could qualify as one of the most dangerous jobs in the city. From the   on the   to the   plaza, reports of assault and death threats to the employees there by motorists are far too common. In the last two months alone, toll plaza employees in Gurgaon have been held hostage by a mob, abducted in a car, and beaten up by goons when they asked people to pay the toll. But these are the cases that get highlighted; several others simply slip under the radar. Employees at the toll plazas say that for them, it has all become far too common now.

 
  
  The   Expressway toll (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam )
 
 
 
 In 2016, officials from the Kherki Daula Toll Plaza had filed 96 complaints of their staff being assaulted, which resulted in 26 FIRs. This year has already seen over two dozen cases of assault at the toll plaza, employees there estimate. Employees at the Gurgaon-Faridabad toll plaza say the situation is not as bad there, but even they get a lot of ‘unnecessarily angry’ motorists quite often and at least one of them has to face a threat of "dekh loonga tujhe" every other day.
 
  Employees say that most of these incidents happen when they are simply doing their job – asking motorists to pay toll or wait in line for their turn – as people get provoked very easily. A toll booth employee at Kherki Daula tells us, “Merely asking someone to wait for their turn patiently or show their documents is enough to trigger people here. Employees have been beaten up for simply asking someone to pay the exact change as they did not have spare change on them."
 
  An employee at the Gurgaon-Faridabad Expressway plaza adds, "Threats and assaults are almost like a part of our day now. People are so entitled here that everyone feels they should not pay toll for some reason or the other. Koi mantri ka bhai hai toh koi staff se hai. Inse argue karo toh maarne ki dhamki dete hain. Some don’t just threaten but actually get physical."
 
 
 
 
 In fact, on occasions, these threats are not carried out immediately but belatedly. Motorists often return with armed associates to assault some employee who had ‘had the audacity to ask them to pay toll’. An employee who witnessed a colleague being thrashed and abducted from the Kherki Daula toll plaza barely a week ago, says, "As if it’s not enough that they threaten or rough us up at the moment we ask them to pay toll, many of them develop a grudge and return later with reinforcements to carry out the threat. Har mahine mein ek baar toh aisa hota hi hai ki koi 10 log le kar kuch ghante baad waapis aata hai. We can fight one person but how do we defend ourselves against 10 people armed with sticks?"
 
  Another employee at the Kherki Daula toll plaza says, "Agitations and protests are particularly scary for us, because in such times, we don’t deal with individuals but mobs. Akele hote hain toh log sirf thoda maarte hain but bade groups mein toh jaise koi darr hi nahi hota. Last month when a mob attacked the plaza, a dozen of us got injured. Many of us jumped out from the windows to save ourselves."
 
  
  The Gurgaon-Faridabad Expressway toll. Employees tell us they have been beaten up even for asking for exact change (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam )
 
  
 
 After so many incidents of assault in such a short time, toll plaza operatives in the city say they have gone into self-preservation mode and stopped arguing with motorists who get agitated. An operative at the Gurgaon-Faridabad Expressway plaza tells us, "Every day we encounter about half a dozen people who say they are exempt from paying toll because they are some official or related to some minister. Unse proof mango toh gaali dete hain. Some even threaten violence. After repeated incidents of people getting beaten up over this, we have even stopped getting into arguments with such people." An operative at the Kherki Daula plaza adds, "Nobody expects a toll booth employee’s life to be in danger during his job. Army ki naukri thode hi hai yeh ki hum itne risk lein."
 
  
  
 
  
 
 Technically, there is one cop posted at the Kherki Daula Toll Plaza and one at the Faridabad Expressway plaza too, but the employees say this security is simply not enough for the threat posed. "For security, there is one policeman posted here but he can’t be everywhere at all times. But whenever an incident happens that gets reported in the news, the security is increased for a few days. Uske baad phir waise hi sab normal ho jaata hai, aur agle incident ke baad hi security ka khayal aata hai," says a toll employee.
 
  Regarding the security at Kherki Daula toll plaza, after a recent incident, ACP   was quoted as saying, "The security is provided at the Kherki Daula toll plaza as and when required. We had posted over 100 cops at the toll plaza when demonetisation took place. But we cannot keep so many cops there always because we also have limited resources. In case of an emergency, force is always sent there."
 
  
 
 
