
If you are a foodie, chances are, you must have read this post online. Food   are the latest craze in Indore and restaurants — small and high-end — are engaging in these 20 somethings to write about them. With social media being the norm, most restaurateurs feel that this is how their place can become a talking point. Terming it as #BloggersMeet, youngsters are being roped in to taste and write about their experiences.   met a few of these young bloggers to unravel their funda.
  
  
 
 Rakesh Dawani the curator of #BloggersMeet and a food aficionado tells us the story. “The trend is rapidly picking up in the city. We’ve been pursuing restaurant owners and managers and had floated this idea. Initially they were reluctant, but it gradually picked up over time.” According to Dawani, bloggers are invited by restaurant owners and they then share their experiences. “Most of the people roped in are well travelled and have an in-depth knowledge about food.”
 
 
 
 
 Most professionals from the food and beverage industry feel that #BloggersMeet helps them understand their own product. Yash Sahani, who runs an upmarket restaurant and night club at Vijay Nagarshares, “We recently hosted a Food Tasting Session at our restaurant since we were introducing a new seven course meal. But before we opened our doors to the public, we wanted genuine feedback and decided to host the bloggers. We wanted them to give an honest feedback and we realised that it would reach the right target  . This also helps us decide if we need to change specific ingredients.”
 Shashwat Dave, an owner of another high-end restaurant agrees and adds, “Getting the food and the place promoted through bloggers is just the right platform as these bloggers go live on various social-networking apps. These sessions are fun get to gathers and get us good response.”
 
  
 
 
 Most bloggers feel that writing about food and talking about new dishes is a great idea to test their writing skills. Kavya Khemchandani, a city based lifestyle blogger shares, “We are constantly looking for the right information when we are on social media to get us more followers. The more we are seen at such gatherings, the more invites we get for attending fashion and lifestyle events. It’s a win-win situation for us.”
 Simran Bhatia who is running a V-Blog adds, “Blogging is a quick and more influential platform to connect with a large audience. Such sessions give us rich content to post on our social platforms and help us connect better with the local audience.” 
  
  
 
 
 Unlike popular perception, writing about food is not really a cake walk. It takes a lot more than just passion. “People usually think that being a foodie can make you a food blogger. It's not that simple. One must be able to taste the flavours and have a broader understanding about food. I sit with chefs and experts and discuss about food and my understanding of the subject helps,” says blogger Belly Kanungo before signing off.
 
  
  
 
