KOLKATA: First New Alipore, then  , and now, Ballygunge is the new syndicate raj hub in south Kolkata. From hiring a decorator to booking a wedding hall, whether you are paying subscription for Sitala puja organized by a random club or hiring an electrician for a big housing complex, the syndicate raj - of which Jai Hind Vahini's president Bharat Jana is a key player - makes its presence felt. 

 Perhaps realizing the gravity of the situation, the Ballygunge police has now decided to hold a test identification (TI) of all the six accused - arrested for demanding money and threatening MP Sugata Boses' mother Krishna on Monday morning. A prayer in this regard will be forwarded soon at a local police station, a source police said. "The masons working at the Bose residence during the incident will be our main witnesses. We will also call Bose and his mother to identify the accused during a TI parade," said the source.
 
 Residents of Sarat Bose Road, Hazra Road and   confirm how every bit of work in their localities is now supervised by "men moving around on bikes". When TOI asked about these men to a security guard of Sailava Complex, located next to the Bose residence on  , he named Jana. "He had come with his men demanding a huge amount for Sitala puja donation. When we told them to find another way out, he proposed that some persons from Pyarabagan be employed at the complex with mutually-fixed salaries," said the guard. 
 
 Most locals residing near  , recalled having met Bharat's father Narayan. "Except for the Maddox Square Durga Puja pandal, all sorts of big and small stalls in the area are constructed by Narayan's group. He also supplies chairs and tables for all political gatherings in the area," said a local. Narayan, however, denied the claims. "My hereditary business is an old one. Thus, I enjoy goodwill in the area. I have not threatened anyone to get a job done," Narayan said.
 
 The general modus operandi adopted by the Pyarabagan syndicate in the past six months is modelled on New Alipore which earned its notoriety several years back. "It started with helping the unemployed and create a loyal gang. Next, the local clubs were roped in. What followed was extortions and a gang would look for easy and soft targets - usually the retired salaried middle class," said another investigator.
 
 "From changing tiles to fixing labour rates, the gang has the last say. They send a demand note asking anything between a few thousand to even around a lakh, depending on the kind of changes you are making," said a Maddox Square resident.
 
 The police said they will soon record Bharat's statement. "Though he may not have a direct link with the case, all the six accused said they were provided work by him. Thus, we want to question him," said an officer of Lalbazar PS.
 
