PUNE:   ( ) officials are probing whether   Babasaheb Khidrapure had used drug Vecredil for aborting the 19   that were found buried near a stream at Mhaisal village in Sangli on Sunday.

 Incidentally, the same drug was used by gynecologist Sudam Munde while carrying out an illegal abortion in the 2011 Beed female foeticide case.
 
 Assistant commissioner (drug) S S Mohite, who had investigated the misuse of Vecredil in Beed, said, “Abortion drugs like Vecredil cannot be sold over the counter. The sale record of these drugs needs to be properly maintained. During our investigations in Beed in 2011, we found several discrepancies in the sale record. The drugs were being sold to unauthorised doctors at a higher cost.” 
 
 If a pregnancy is aborted before 12 weeks of gestation, a minor surgical procedure is conducted and drugs like Vecredil are not required. The drug itself is sparingly prescribed. It is advised only in the second trimester abortion of fetuses with “lethal anomalies” that generally happens in one in 300 cases. 
 
 “Lethal anomaly” means that the fetus has a physical abnormality incompatible with survival or normal life. Experts say the second trimester in a pregnancy is 12-20 weeks of gestation, when the foetus has grown enough for its sex to be determined in a sonography test.
 
 “We are investigating whether Khidrapure used abortion drugs to abort the fetuses at the Sangli hospital. We inspected the medical store attached to the hospital where the doctor would carry out abortions on Mondays. So far, we have not found any abortion drugs in the store. However, it is possible that Khidrapure could have procured such drugs from other sources. We have issued a stop-sale notice to the medical store. The doctor is joint owner of the store,” an FDA official told TOI.
 
 Confirming this, Vidyadhar Jawadekar, joint commissioner (drug), FDA, Pune division, said, “Our officials are investigating whether the homeopath was misusing abortion drugs. The investigation is on.”
 
 “About 99% doctors have stopped using Vecredil injections since better abortion medicines like prostaglandin gels are now available. However, its use, misuse or illegal procurement in rural areas and the periphery cannot be ruled out,” said gynaecologist Pankaj Sarode, secretary, Pune Obstetrics and Gynecological Society.
 
