VADODARA: After strong stench gripped the city for the third time within a fortnight on Tuesday, the Gandhinagar office of the   (GPCB) sent a committee to Vadodara to find out the exact reason behind the stench. 

 GPCB officials said they have managed to collect a sample on Tuesday night when the intense foul smell of gas gave another sleepless night to residents in many parts of the city like the ones they had spent during two nights in the last week of March.
 
 The committee which started its inspection on probable sources of the stench included GPCB’s regional officer and vigilance officer from Vadodara, Irfan Kagzi, deputy engineer from GPCB Gandhinagar and two external experts Dr P A Joshi from Dharmsinh Desai University and J N Joshi, retired professor of environmental engineering from L D College of Engineering. 
 
 Sources said that the committee which inspected one industrial unit primarily believes that the stench is due to a sulphide compound. “The committee which will continue its inception will prepare its report in one or two days,” said an official. 
 
 “Our teams had used all methods including photoionization detector (PID) meters, activated charcoal and dragger tubes to collect the sample. We have managed to collect a sample which is being sent to Central laboratory at Gandhinagar for testing,” said GPCB’s regional officer C A Shah, adding that he expects the analysis of the sample to arrive shortly. 
 
 Experts at M S University however suggested that GPCB could have easily approached the university which has a gas chromatography mass spectroscopy (GCMF) instrument that can help identify the gas responsible for the stench.
 
 “Samples can be tested using GCMF which is available with our chemistry department that had procured the instrument at the cost of Rs 35 lakh. With this instrument we get a spectra. This spectra can be matched with library of different gases to arrive at a conclusion on what gas it is. After that, action can be taken on the industry which is responsible for emission of this gas,” said professor Arun Arya, officiating head of Department of Environmental Studies at MSU’s Faculty of Science. 
 
 Fingers of suspicion are pointing to Nandesari cluster as some small as well as some of the big units located in the near-by area. 
 
 Sources in GPCB said that the gases released from some of these units in the day time are settling down during the night when atmosphere turns cooler. Depending on the wind direction, the smell wafts through several areas. 
 
 
