MANGALURU: Members of the Bunts   Mumbai Bhandup unit, Sujatha P Alva, 42, and Sumalatha C Shetty, 45, who hailed from the coastal districts, were close friends and jointly shouldered the responsibilities of community activities. These residents of Kanjurmarg East were together in death too at the stampede at Mumbai's Elphinstone railway station on Friday.

 For the family of Sumalatha, a native of   in   district, it was the second death within two months. Sucharitha, her relative and neighbour, told TOI that Sumalatha's father Hoigemane Krishna Shetty , 80, died at her residence in Mumbai on August 3. Sumalatha was very active even before she left for Mumbai after her marriage years ago.
 
 "Sumalatha, an athlete, was actively involved in social service.She was active in the cooperative milk society and had leadership qualities," Sucharitha Shetty said, adding that while her husband Chandrashekhar Shetty is an employee of a private company, her daughter Nidhi is a BSc student in Sion, Mumbai.
 
 Sucharitha said his family was close to Sumalatha's family ."Sumalatha left for Mumbai after her marriage more than two dec ades ago and settled there. I've spoken to relatives in Mumbai and they said she was on her way to buy flowers for Navaratri along with her friend Sujatha when the stampede occurred. They panicked after many shouted about an electrical short circuit and a possible bridge collapse. Her brothers Harish Shetty and Suresh Shetty are still in shock about their father's death. Krishna Shetty, a Yakshagana artist and farmer, died when he was with his children in Mumbai," he added.
 
 Buntara Yane Nadavara Math ru Sangha executive panel member Diwakar Samani said the community has lost two energetic women, who were active in religious and social activities. He said Sujatha was not only a talented theatre artist, but also enthusiastic in community activities in Mumbai. While her husband   is an officer in the I-T department, her daughters Prajna Alva and Prerna Alva are students of Alva's College, he said.
 
