PUNE:   Pankaja Munde on Saturday said the child adoption rules for the state would be ready by July. 

 Speaking to TOI here, Munde said the 21-member technical committee formed under her ministry will take all efforts and ready the rules before the monsoon session of the Assembly.
 
 The minister has directed inclusion of secrecy features for putting up photographs of children for adoption on websites under the state rules. 
 
 “Maharashtra leads in the number of adoptions in the country, with a 25% share. Keeping this in mind, the government has decided to formulate the rules,” she said.
 
 Munde added the 21-member technical committee will study all rules and regulations within India as well as in foreign countries. “The technical committee will study the central rules and all other laws. On the basis of this, it will formulate the laws that can be applied in the state. It is a voluminous task and will take time,’’ she said.
 
 Munde had made an announcement in reply to a calling attention motion of MLC Neelam Gorhe early this week, saying that the rules would be readied after a thorough study. Gorhe had pointed out that the central adoption rules allowed putting up photos of children, “which is not appreciated”. 
 
 ‘They are not objects but people and there should be some amount of secrecy about the adoptive children as well as the people adopting them,’’stated Gorhe in the assembly. 
 
 Munde had in her reply said that she will direct the team to take “due care” while drafting the rules. “The adoption procedure is online, but secrecy will be maintained and parents may be able to get to see the children separately online,” she said. 
 
 The Union government had told the   in May last year that it will frame model rules for the states within two months before the   (CARA) brings out new guidelines for adoption. Till then, the 2015 guidelines issued by CARA will continue.
 
 More funds for homes
 
 Woman and child development minister   will have to make more allocations following the high court order to disburse more funds for observation homes. The court has directed the Maharashtra government to construct adequate number of children’s homes in the state, besides increasing the the quantum of grants for the facilities. The court told the government to increase the state grant for each “mentally challenged” child from Rs 1,140, to Rs 2,000 a month. For a “normal child”, the monthly allocation was increased to Rs 1,500 from Rs950. 
 
