Four youths, including a diploma student and a cab driver, were arrested for the abduction and murder of 19-year-old N Sharath, engineering student and son of an Income Tax official.   was missing since September 12 from the city.

 Police had initially said Sharath could have gone on a Ladakh trip on his new motorcycle, but it turned out that his childhood friend and accomplices had kidnapped him for ransom and later murdered him after they realised that Sharath's parents have approached the police.
 
 They first disposed of the body in the Narasimaiah lake, but it resurfaced on the third day, forcing them to fish out the bloated body and drive around the city, until they decided to bury it at Kurubarapalya Bande from where it was exhumed on Friday morning.
 
 Sharath was murdered within 30 minutes after his parents approached the police.
 
 The arrested are as HP Vishal aka Vishu, 21, from Jnananagar, Vinay Prasad aka Vikky, 24, Karan Pai aka Karna, 22, and Vinod Kumar V,24, all residing in Chunchanakuppe. Vishal is a Diploma student of   and was working as an agent outside the Ullal RTO office. Vikky works as a cab driver while Karan is employed at a factory and Vinod does not have a regular job.Shanthakumar, an Uber car driver, is also involved, but is absconding.
 
 Police managed to corner Vishal on Thursday on the basis of records of his phone calls made to Sharath. Police claimed Vishal had told Sharath that his friend had got a Benelli bike, which he would ride on the evening on September 12. Sharath told Vishal he would join him on his bike.
 
 Vishal was questioned by the police twice before Thursday, but he managed to escape from their radar. He even gave out the list of Sharath's friends and shared other details with the police. He also pretended to be a moral support to the family by looking for Sharath at all the places.
 
 Police commissioner T Suneel Kumar said, “Based on technical evidence, Vishal was questioned by our men and he confessed to having killed Sharath with his associates.“
 
 Police said Vishal and his friends, Shantha Kumar, Vinay and Karan gathered near the RTO on September 10. Vishal told them about Sharath and his family's financial background.They decided to target him and since Vishal knew Sharath was crazy about bikes, he lured him out on the pretext of going on a bike ride.
 
 Vishal told Sharath to meet near Shirke Apartment at  , and then later they rode their bikes till Ullal RTO office. They later joined Shantha, Vikky and had a beer before they made Sharath get into a car that Vikky had borrowed from his friend. They forced Sharath to ask his parents to pay Rs 50 lakh for his freedom and sent that recording to his parents on WhatsApp. His parents approached the police and also started calling his friends, including Vishal, telling them about the video. Vishal turned up to help the parents, but he asked his accomplices to murder Sharath to evade the police. “Shantha, Vikky and Karan strangulated Sharath with a nylon rope by 11.30 pm. They disposed of the body in the Narasimaiah lake by tying stones to it to ensure it won't float in the water,“ said additional commissioner of police (West) Malini Krishnamurthy.
 
 Vishal and his friends visited the lake after two days to check whether the body was floating. On the third day, they saw the body floating in the water. They tied more stones to the body and put it back in the lake. They continued to visit the lake and saw that the body was floating again on September 19. This time, they took the body in a car and roamed around in the city to find a place to dispose it of. They disposed the body in a trench at Kurubarapalya Bande on September 20, Krishnamurthy said.
 
 Vinod only joined the team on September 20 and helped them dispose of the body, she added.
 
 The accused told the police they used disinfectant and other items to reduce the smell of decomposition before packing the body in a plastic bag. The police exhumed the body, conducted a post-mortem and handed the body over to the family.
 
