JAIPUR:The   ( ) is seeking permission from the state government for de-acquisition of land after the latter imposed a ban on development of new  

 In a letter, the RHB has requested the state government to grant permission for developing new housing projects, or allow to start the process of de-acquisition. In Jaipur and other parts of the state, the RHB has started land acquisition of 5,324 hectares from farmers to develop housing projects. The notices to the farmers have been issued.
 
 Chief minister   during her Naugar tour in 2016 imposed a ban on RHB after she witnessed houses are constructed using inferior construction material. Following this, the then chief secretary   issued official orders on May 24, 2016. In October, the state government also issued orders and put a ban on land acquisition. However, before the orders were released, the RHB issued the award for 2,219 hecatres land acquired for 22 housing projects. Now, the RHB has to pay compensation of approximately Rs 1,350 crore to the farmers.
 
 “The RHB has asked land for land settlement permission from the state government. Permission has been given to pay land as compensation in such cases till September 2017,” added an official. Similarly, to develop 25 housing projects the RHB issued notices under section four of Land Acquisition Act 1984 to acquire 5,324 hectares of land from the farmers.
 
 “There is a pressure from the farmers to de-acquire the land if it is not used for housing projects. We have requested the government to give permission to start the process,” said RHB official.
 
 At present, RHB is constructing 3,238 houses in seven projects. These projects will be completed by July, 2017. Once these projects are completed, the RHB will be left with no projects as board has not given permission to any new project.
 
 Sources said, the officials are also not showing interest in RHB operations. “The last board meeting was held six months ago. However, as per the rules it should be called in every three months. As there are no new projects, officials are feeling discouraged,” added source.
 
 
