NEW DELHI: The crime branch has arrested a former   terrorist, Gursewak Singh Babla (51). Police claim that the accused was planning to revive the terror outfit, Khalistan Commando Force (KCF), following instructions from his boss Paramjeet Singh Panjawar, now based in Pakistan.

 Babla claimed to be a close associate of the dreaded militant, Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale, who was killed during Operation Blu Star in June 1984. He was involved in more than 50 terror cases. He was jailed for 26 years and released in 2010. 
 
 Babla looted 19 liquor shops in a single day in Punjab. Police said he wanted to be part of the “folklore associated with such daredevilry”. The money collected was used to fund terror activities.
 
 Delhi Police arrested Babla when he came to meet a contact near Rajokri on Monday night. They seized a   and some   from him. “He has been evading arrest ever since he was declared a proclaimed offender by a city court. A team led by DCP Bhisham Singh had laid a trap near Rajokri and nabbed him with a loaded pistol and some rounds,” said Praveer Ranjan, joint commissioner (crime).
 
 During interrogation, Babla told the the cops that he was in touch with former KCF chief Jagtar Singh Hawara and some other militants of Punjab in order to revive the terror group.
 
 Babla belongs to Ludhiana. He is the younger brother of Swaran Singh, who was a member of Bhindranwale’s group when terrorism was at its peak in Punjab in 1980s.
 
 Babla had joined KCF in 1984 and was involved in several cases of murder and bank dacoities in Punjab. Though he was arrested in 1986, he managed to escape from the police custody while being produced in Tis Hazari court in 2004. Two of associates were later gunned down in Ludhiana. 
 
 A case was registered at the Subzi Mandi police station and the investigation was transferred to the Special Cell. Babla was rearrested a year later and sent to  . While in prison, Babla had managed to establish contact with some of his associates in Pakistan. They were planning to supply AK-47 rifles and explosives to carry out a major attack in Delhi. However, the attempt was foiled by the Delhi Police after a shootout in Punjabi Bagh.
 
 Police say that Babla and his associates have been targeting shops and ATMs in Delhi and Punjab in order to save money for terror operations. 
 
 
