MUMBAI: Despite seven months of complaining and repeatedly pointing out that a coconut tree inside his building compound was in a precarious condition, the   did little to get it removed, alleged Avinash Pol, a resident of Chandroday society at Swastik Park in Chembur.

 On Monday morning, TOI visited the spot where a part of the coconut tree snapped and fell on former DD anchor Kanchan Nath (57) last Saturday, eventually killing her. BMC staffers seem to have swung into action only after the incident and were seen trimming trees and balancing them.
 
 “I had raised a stink over the risky condition of the coconut tree in January on the BMC’s disaster helpline number—1916. A civic team visited the site but did nothing done after that. In February, I again called them to examine the tree, but they told me that it was in a good condition,” Pol told TOI, recounting how civic officials told him that there was no need to cut down the tree. “However, since the tree was on a busy road, I persisted and even paid them Rs 1,380 as processing fees to acquire permission for tree cutting,” said Pol. TOI had spoken to Pol’s wife Meenakshi on Saturday.
 
 “I warned them that the tree would collapse during the monsoon and that’s exactly what happened and led to the death. This tragedy could have definitely been avoided had adequate precautions been taken. Why play with anyone’s lives?” asked Pol, adding that he wants to appeal to authorities not to sit in their air conditioned offices but actually go out and check the ground reality.
 
 Meanwhile the assistant municipal commissioner of BMC’s M west ward Harshad Kale denied that Pol had pursued the matter for the past seven months. “Yes in February we did receive a complaint from Mr. Pol following which we even in inspected the tree. While the coconut tree is in a good conditions from the ground upto 15 feet it’s the mid-level snapping owing to high wind force which this natural disaster. After February there has been no complaint given to us,” said Kale.
 
 It is pertinent to note how the entire incident has caused a fear psychosis in the locality and many residents said that they kept looking up to keep checking in any other tree was bound to  . Dattamala Shinde, a local, said that the BMC takes large sums as taxes from us despite which as senior citizens we need to watch our every step we take.
 
 Sanjay Kokane, another resident from the locality also pointed out that there were many trees in the locality that needed to be trimmed but officials were probably waiting for an incident as such before taking any stern action.
 
 
