HYDERABAD: It's ironical that of the five residential colonies that have received the Swachh Colony awards are without good roads.   in Masab Tank is one among the Swachh award winners, but the bylanes here are hardly motorable with the manholes lying much below the road level. Motorists driving on the roads in the colony wouldn't find the experience a pleasant one. “Because of the mismatch, the manholes have turned into death traps. I request the authorities to take up corrective measures immediately,“ said Ashwin Kumar, president of the  .“These deep manholes adversely affect the back and spine more than the potholes as they are bigger in size. During the recent rains my bike bumped into one of the pits and I experienced a sudden nasty jerk in my neck. There were times when I bumped into potholes, but the impact was not so horrible,“ said a student from that area.

 The president of the colony also lamented civic workers' slipshod approach to their job. After trimming trees, they left the branches on the road. “We engaged our colony association staffers after the workers left the tree branches on the roads to clear up the mess,“ said Ashwin Kumar.
 
 To say less about the roads in Central Excise Colony in Baghamberpet is better. Barring the main roads, the bylanes are in very bad condition.
 
 The residents appeal to the   authorities to repair the roads in four bylanes in their colony. The road near tennis court in Central Excise Colony is riddled with potholes and, the stretch connecting Ayyapa Swamy temple and Saibaba temple needs urgent attention.
 
 “These roads were recarpeted long ago. They are in urgent need of repair,“ said Venkat Rao, general secretary of Central Excise Colony.
 
 Another area of concern in the colony is poor streetlighting. The residents have requested the authorities to ensure better illumination in their colony. “For quite some time street-lights are not being maintained properly and we would be happy if the government sanctions LED lights to our colony,“ said Venkat Rao.
 
 Regular cutting has left the roads in   in the Erragada division in a bad shape. The residents, particularly women folk of Road No 1, Rajeev Nagar Colony, said that the dug-up roads pose serious threat to people. “As we use these roads regularly we are aware of the pitfalls, so we slow down wherever they is a problem. But I saw strangers to the area applying sudden breaks and getting panicky due to pits. “A drainage line is being laid so we have asked the authorities to restore the road only after completing the entire work,'“ said Krishna Sharma, president of Rajeev Nagar Colony.
 
