NAGPUR: After the   suggested that the   dispute be settled through discussions, the RSS-floated   (MRM) is gearing up to build a consensus in the community. MRM’s national convener Mohammed Afzal told TOI that the organization is taking it as a golden chance for Muslims to settle the dispute amicably.

 “The temple holds immense religious importance for Hindus but for Muslims it is just another mosque at the site. There are many other mosques like the   which are lying abandoned across the country. Muslims should come forward in building the temple at the site, instead of making it a matter of religious pride,’ Afzal told TOI.
 
 MRM plans to take up the message across the country. “Meetings will be held at all state-level units and the Muslim religious leaders will be asked to come forward to help in building the temple,” said Afzal.
 
 He added that the matter has already been settled in the high court “leaving little scope for any change”. “But now with the apex court suggesting a friendly settlement, the best way out is to cooperate. A mosque can come up but at a distance so that there is no room for any fresh controversy,” the MRM convener said. 
 
 On how MRM will be able to convince the community, he said that with the high court decision not much can be done by the   or any other element to have a mosque only at the site. “We will stress that the dispute can only be resolved mutually,” said Afzal.
 
 “We will convince Muslim religious leaders that cooperation should be extended for the sake of national integration, rather than making it a prestige issue. The MRM wants that there should be no more bloodshed in the county in name of Lord Ram,” he added.
 
 The MRM functionaries plan to meet Indresh Kumar, the RSS’s national executive member who had formed the outfit in 2002 as a move to bridge the gap with the community. Afzal said MRM has its units in 24 states with over tens of thousands of workers. “A strategy will be chalked out in the meeting,” he said.
 
 Danish Kamal, the convener of MRM’s Uttar Pradesh unit, said the stress will be on adhering the high court ruling. The solution should be worked out in such a way that sentiments of none of the communities is hurt, he said. 
 
 “Moreover the young generation of Muslims is indifferent towards the whole issue,” said Kamal.
 
