CHENNAI: The   government will soon use drones to monitor crops such as paddy, banana and sugarcane, and for location specific damage assessment of crops to support insurance schemes. Sources in the agriculture department told TOI that the government was considering the proposal to use drones.

 The project will be moni tored and executed by   (TNAU), which carried out a pilot project at a tea estate in Munnar, Kerala, last year.
 
 So far, satellite imageries were used to monitor large areas. Drones with sensors (to capture visual and thermal data) can be used for location-specific monitoring, explains Dr  , head of the department of Remote Sensing and GIS at TNAU.
 
 The drones can be used at a height of 20-80 metres and can cover 100 hectares in one hour. They can also be used under cloud cover, by flying them below the clouds, with a high resolution of 5-20 cm, he said.
 
 Crop monitoring is the process of collecting data on sowing, progress of planting and condition of crops."For the last five years, satellite data was used for the state government's crop insurance schemes. Now we will try to use drones to monitor specific areas," he said.
 
 Last year, TNAU, launched a pilot study at a tea estate in Munnar, where drones were used to design precision farming.
 
 Dr Pazhanivelan said the drones help generate information that aids in "adding the right quantity of nutrient inputs at the right place, at the right time". Drones are used for mapping pestaffected areas to help scientists deduce incidence.
 
 "We monitor the pest-affected area at the initial stage, and ensure pesticide is sprayed only in the areas that require it. This helps avoid indiscriminate use of pesticides," he said.
 
 The visual data generated by the drone sensors help identify moisture stress and wilting symp toms, that can be solved by targeted irrigation.
 
 Last year, the Centre launched the  , to ensure quick settlement of crop insurance claims, and permitted deployment of drones to estimate crop losses.
 
 Necessary permissions were obtained from the District Collector to use the drones in Munnar, he added.
 
