NEW DELHI: Holding that   has "rendered himself unfit" for continuance as BCCI chief by his conduct and action, the Supreme Court on Monday said, seizing his power and asked the senior most Vice President of the Board to manage the affairs. It also initiated criminal proceedings for contempt of court and purjury against him for misleading the court and obstructing implementation of its order.

 A bench of Chief Justice T S Thakur, Justices A M Khanwilkar and D Y Chandrachud sought explanation form BCCI chief why criminal proceedings be not launched against him and also directed BCCI Secretary   to keep himself away from cricket administration. 
 
 The court said Thankur is prima facie guilty of misleading the court by making false statements and obstructing implementation of its July 18 order by which it had directed implementation of all recommendations of Justice   committee for barring ministers and bureaucrats from the board and setting an age limit of 70 years for office-bearers. The court said BCCI chief had washed his hands off a duty and obligation to ensure compliance. 
 
 "Anurag Thakur, President of BCCI and Ajay Shirke, Secretary, BCCI shall forthwith cease and desist from being associated with the working of BCCI. A notice to show cause shall issue to Anurag Thakur to explain why he should not be proceeded against under the provisions of Section 195 read with Section 340 of CrPC (for perjury). A notice to show cause shall issue to Thakur to explain why he should not be proceeded with under the Contempt of Courts," it said.
 
 The writing on the wall was clear on what was in store for BCCI chief when the apex court had in last hearing on December 15 minced no words in criticising the conduct of Anurag Thakur and had threatened to send him behind the bars. The bench had asked senior advocate  , appearing for Thakur, to ask his client "either apologise or be ready to face criminal proceedings". Taking a defiant stand, Thakur chose not to apologise, compelling the court to initiate contempt proceedings.
 
 The court said that BCCI and Thakur had tried to evade to comply its order on cricket reform by seeking a letter from   chief   to oppose its order to appoint a CAG nominee on the Board to keep an eye of financial transaction of BCCI.
 
 "The conduct of the President of BCCI in seeking a letter from the President of ICC in August 2016, after the final judgment and Order of this Court, is nothing but an attempt on the part of the head of BCCI to evade complying, with the order of this court," the bench said.
 
 "We are constrained to note that there was absolutely no occasion for the President of BCCI to solicit any such clarification from the Chairperson of ICC in the teeth of the judgment that was delivered by this Court. Moreover, we find adequate reasons to doubt the veracity of the explanation which has been tendered by Mr Thakur about the sequence of events," it said.
 
 The court also removed all office bearers in BCCI and state boards who are holding posts in violation of apex court's order. The court had held that a office bearer shall be disqualified who had attained 70 years of age or is a minister/government servant or has been holding post for a cumulative period of nine years or holds post in other sports body.
 
 "We need to emphasise that the turf of the cricket field is not a personal turf or fiefdom. We must hence order and direct that no person shall hereafter continue to be or be entitled for appointment as office bearer of BCCI or a State Association in breach of the above norms. All existing office bearers of BCCI and of the State Associations who do not fulfil the above norms shall with effect from the date of this Order stand disqualified," it said. 
 
 The court said that it would appoint a panel of administrators which would to supervise the administration of BCCI through its CEO. It asked senior advocates   and  , assisting the court as amicus curiae, and other parties to suggest names for the post of administrators.
 
 The court said that the qualified office bearers of BCCI and state boards could continue to hold office if they give an "unconditional undertaking" within four weeks stating that they would comply with its order. The court slammed BCCI and its office bearers for their "intransigence" in bringing accountability and transparency in cricket administration.
 
