HYDERABAD: A 13 year old class IX student has created a buzz in T-hub with his innovative formula for generating electricity from a ceiling fan.

 Born to NBBK Sharma, a supervisor at the Srikanaka Durga temple in Mehdipatnam and deaf and mute mother N Satayavani,  , is the youngest entrant in T hub, officials said.
 
 Inspired by  's law of electromagnetic induction, Chandrasekhar, a student of  , invented a formula to generate more electricity from a fan, which can be used to light bulbs and recharge mobiles. 
 
 The unnamed device created by him has three simple magnets, two copper foils, and two plastic plates attached to the top of a running fan. And it took him just Rs 2,000 to come upit.“Whenever we turn on the fan it generates electricity with the help of the mounted device. At night we can use this to light bulbs and during the day we can charge a backup battery on our mobile phone,” Chandrasekhar said. “Two copper foils help in recharging,” he added.
 
 After he invented the current device, he went to T hub all alone to present his idea for entrepreneurship contacts. 
 
 T hub managers readily liked the idea and also asked him to give a speech during the T hub inaugural day. “For this prototype, we will try get a patent first. We are presenting him as a vibrant mind with various firms and business houses not just for this  , but for his sharp brain,” Phani Marupaka, manager with marketing intelligence wing of T hub said. 
 
 The organizers have even sent him for a technological conference ‘Melting pot 2020’ in New Delhi.
 
 The foster boy of T hub is full of more ideas. “I want to do similar innovation which can generate more electricity. For example, the cycles that we use for exercise, can generate more electricity when we use them. ,” Chandrasekhar said.
 
 His father NBBK Sharma, and mother N Satayavani, an employee in the Income tax department are both surprised at the achievement. “ I have studied till class X and managed a small job in a temple. His interest in science has been all God’s gift,” Sharma said.
 
 
