CHENNAI: The state is heading for a prolonged spell of political uncertainty. Majority of the state MLAs are virtually cut off from the outside world; their little world at present is a resort in a hitherto non-descript village called Koovathur, 10 km off Mamallapuram without any access to phone or television.

 They are expected to support   general secretary V K Sasikala in the standoff between herself and chief minister O Panneerselvam in the race for the chief minister's post, but going by the drain of MLAs that the Sasikala camp has been witnessing since Tuesday night, what stand the MLAs would finally take on the floor of the House is anybody's guess.
 
 Many ministers and MLAs, who were initially in the resort, have moved out to undisclosed locations, a clear indication that they want to gauge popular sentiments before taking a call.
 
 Sasikala's chances of forming a government remains uncertain even if governor   chooses to extend her an invitation now; and his decision, going by Raj Bhavan sources, is unlikely to come before the Supreme Court verdict in the disproportionate assets case against her.
 
 “It is evident that the governor is not convinced that the MLAs camping in Koovathur resort are taking an independent view. They could be under coercion, otherwise, why should they stay in a secluded place,“ said political analyst Ravinthiran Duraisamy .
 
 In case of her conviction, the party is looking at the possibility of projecting K A Sengottaiyan or Edappadi K Palaniswami as the CM candidate. Given the caste ma trix in the state, they would find it difficult to keep the flock together. Also, there are a few claimants for the CM post from within Sasikala's family itself. With chief ministerial ambition, her brother Divakaran and nephews T T V Dinakaran and Venkatesan have been promoting party functionaries. The sudden emergence of Dinakaran and Venkatesan as Sasikala's prime advisers has caused consternation for the Divakaran group as its position could now be shaky.
 
 As on date, OPS is nowhere near forming a government as numbers are loaded heavily against him. He has to attract two-thirds of AIADMK MLAs to escape the Damocle's sword of disqualification. But even with that, he cannot form a government. Unless the MLAs shift loyalty en bloc, OPS does not stand any chance of forming the government.
 
 Will the   support an AIADMK government headed by OPS? Will the AIADMK leaders and workers be comfortable taking the DMK's support? What backlash will both the parties face from the electorate once such a truck happens? For now, the DMK has categorically said it won't support OPS to form government as he is seen as a tool of the   .
 
 “The DMK had refused to support the Janaki government when it was falling in 1987. DMK is unlikely to support OPS too, because right now it is advantageous for the DMK to go for election. It is already smelling blood,“ said analyst M Kasinathan.
 
