BENGALURU: Every time the skies open up, this couple rushes to the sump. Listening to the pitter-patter of the rain water entering the sump from the terrace, they beam.

 That's the urban legend scientist A R Shivakumar and his wife   have spun by not going in for piped water supply for 22 years. Instead, they have been harvesting every drop of rainwater they can. “I do not need BWSSB wa ter supply, when I am able to harvest rainwater which is sufficient enough for the entire year through wise usage,“ Shivakumar, principal scientific officer and principal investigator of rainwater harvesting at the  , located on the   campus, says.
 
 Built on a 60 ft by 40 ft plot in   in 1995, Shivakumar's house has two sumps and two overhead tanks to harvest rainwater. The water that falls on the terrace is collected by the RWH tank and diverted to two sumps. PopUp filters, invented by Shivakumar, filter the impurities in the rainwater before it enters the sumps. Water from the sumps is pumped up to the overhead tank from where it is supplied for usage in the house. Used water from the kitchen sink is reused for watering plants. The effluent water from the washing machine is collected in another small sump and pumped to the processing tank where it is treated and later used for flushing in toilets.
 
 The house has several trees on its premises. The green cover is a natural chimney of sorts, serving as a heat sink and providing a cooling effect. 
 
 The household is frugal in its water use, consuming 400 litres daily, against 600-1,000 litres used by any Bengaluru family. Shivakumar's wife Suma explains how they made the impossible possible. “When we got married, we lived near Vijayanagar and faced water shortage as there was no connection. When we started building our house, the plot was on a rocky hill and no houses were around. Shivakumar was determined to construct a house that's different,“ says Suma.
 
 Shivakumar had studied Bengaluru's rainfall pattern for 100 years when he started building the house. “He took up the challenge of using only rain water for work. He first built check-bunds on the boundaries of our site so as to catch and store rain water falling on the site area. When we dug the borewell and found that water was available at just 120 feet,“ she explains.
 
 According to Shivakumar, a family of four needs 45,000 litres of water to sustain for three months. Once in three months Bengaluru gets heavy rainfall. Hence, harvesting rain water would be a wise idea. His calculations have been working well with his water management system storing 45,000 litres.
 
 The house gets at least two guests every day to understand rain water management. When they recently hosted two weddings, Suma was a bit worried about water usage. But Shivakumar, the key person behind BWSSB's mandatory rainwater harvesting for properties in Bengaluru, proved to be right. “It needs a person like Shivakumar in every home to catch every rain drop,“ Suma says.
 
 USE AND REUSE
 
 The water used for washing clothes gets into a separate tank and undergoes treatment procedure. The treated water is connected for flushing toilet. The scientist has made sure that not a single drop gets wasted at his house. “Water used in kitchen is separately collected for watering the garden.Only if chemicals are used for washing utensils, it goes to the drain. My plants are also getting nourished that way,“ he adds.
 
 HIS INVENTION: POPUP FILTER
 
 In 2007, Shivakumar, who has handled rainwater harvesting for government buildings, public places and institutions, got a patent for his invention, the PopUp filter. “Though rainwater collected on the rooftop is pure and clean, it needs to be filtered for suspended impurities like leaves, bird droppings and dust. I have designed a filter that is a simple, flexible installation to separate impurities from water before it can be used in houses and institutions. Collected rainwater can be sent through the PopUp filter and stored separately in a sump, filtering the impurities,“ he says.
 
 SEEK ADVICE
 
 The team has implemented rainwater harvesting at a BBMP park in   and IISc on all working days, if public want to get tips.
 
