Indore: Nearly after a month-long of covert search operation, the traffic police authorities have finally traced a   on Friday night, for jumping traffic signals for  . The cops had to work their tails off since the vehicle’s record was not available with the regional transport department. 

 “The vehicle’s record was not available on the online server of the department since it was registered in the year 2002. It was only after keeping a check on the regular travel routes of the vehicle we were able to trace the route,” additional superintendent of police (traffic) Prashant Choubey told TOI.
 
 “A separate team was formed to keep a track on the vehicle as the number of red light violations was very high against the vehicle. Its picture was captured through red light violation detection (RLVD) system installed at many squares on the basis on which we were able to track the offender,” said Choubey. 
 
 The vehicle bearing registration number – MP09-HC–5887 – was registered in name of Rajesh Kumar, who runs a car driving school near Manikbaagh area of the city. He did not even have a valid licence to run a driving training school. 
 
 Officials said that it is strange fact that a driving school instructor has violated traffic rules for so many times. “While a formal driving training is considered to play a key role in improving road safety, good driving habits and awareness about road signs, I wonder what kind of training this instructor would impart to learners,” said a senior official. 
 
 He said that the vehicle has been seized and the owner has been asked to pay a total fine of Rs 32,000 for jumping red light signals for 64 times. The driver had mostly jumped red light in west part of the city including, Tower square, Palsikar Colony and Mhow Naka. 
 
 Traffic police authorities have launched a drive against repeated violators of red signal. They are taking legal action against violators, who were found jumping traffic signals for more than 15 times. Earlier, a magic van was found to have jumped traffic signal for around 76 times. 
 
 
