PANAJI: The Bharatiya Janata Party ( ) slipped from its ‘simple majority’ pedestal it mounted in 2012 to a tally of just 13, with many of its heavyweights routed. 

 One of the major factors was the split of the state unit of the RSS, which stopped the BJP from winning its 26-seat target declared by its national president, Amit Shah. While the RSS rebels-supported Goa Suraksha Manch (GSM) might not have opened its account, the faction worked hard to make sure two BJP heavyweights — chief minister Laxmikant Parsekar and environment minister Rajendra Arlekar — lost in Pernem taluka. 
 
 Another reason for the poor show was the BJP’s split with coalition partner   (MGP) on the eve of elections. The Dhavalikar-led outfit’s decision to go it alone caused a split in the vote; MGP-GSM and BJP fought for the same vote bank.
 
 Despite the state’s weak opposition, BJP couldn’t do better as it failed to gauge the pulse of the people. The party, which came to office in 2012 riding on the huge promises, did not fulfill them. After various omissions like the lack of action against perpetrators of illegal mining, many people joined the opposition in calling defence minister (then chief minister) Manohar Parrikar’s government a U-turn government.
 
 While BJP created several social welfare schemes and went on a building spree, BJP MLAs and ministers failed to connect with the people.
 
 Several political observers said that BJP MLAs became arrogant and did not entertain the public coming to them for their work, which was among the reasons for BJP downslide. 
 
 BJP was hoping to come back to power riding on social security schemes and was hoping to garner a huge share of the woman vote. 
 
 While BJP tried to rely on its policies, it ignored its pre-election assurances like the completion of regional plan 2012, removal of casinos from the River Mandovi, and the MoI issue. 
 
 Even though Parrikar tried a lot of last-minute outreaches such as corner meetings all over the state, BJP did not reach anywhere close to the magical figure.
 
 
