GAYA: Kalchakra, the mega prayers aimed at infusing Buddha traits among his devotees through meditation and preaching, formally began on Tuesday with the Dalai Lama, the supreme spiritual leader of the Buddhists, leading the prayers.

 As against the initial estimate of a quarter million Buddha devotees participating in the 10-day long event, not more than 38,000 pilgrims registered themselves for participation, thereby making it the thinnest congregation ever. This is said to be the smallest of the five such congregations held in   between 1974 and 2017.
 
 The somewhat poor turnout of devotees is attributed to a host of factors, including note ban and Chinese hostility and advisory issued by several countries to their nationals intending to visit India. This is also the first such event organised post 2013 terrorist attack in which Indian Mujahideen’s Ranchi module had triggered low intensity serial blasts at 12 points in Bodh Gaya, including four at  .
 
 For the first two days, the non-monks have been exempted from participation in the prayers and advised to visit other places, including Rajgir and Nalanda associated with Buddha.
 
 In his message to event participants, the Dalai Lama said, “I believe that the purpose of life is to be happy. From the moment of birth, every human being wants happiness and does not want suffering. Neither social conditioning nor education affects this. From the very core of our being, we simply desire contentment. I don’t know whether the universe, with its countless galaxies, stars and planets, has a deeper meaning or not, but at the very least, it is clear that we humans who live on this earth face the task of making a happy life for ourselves. Therefore, it is important to discover what will bring about the greatest degree of happiness”.
 
 The rigorous prayer schedule begins at 7am and continues till 4pm with an hour-long lunch break between 11.30am and 12.30pm. While robed monks numbering several thousands are mandated to be present from day one, the non-monks will be joining the prayers on day three.
 
 The Dalai Lama would be delivering sermons from January 5 onwards. He will give tips to his followers on how to develop a sense of detachment from worldly pleasure and develop compassion and fraternal feeling towards the suffering masses.
 
 According to the organisers, besides spiritual purification of the participants, the mega prayers are also aimed at propagating ‘Madhyam Marg’ or middle path, the main theme of Buddhist philosophy.
 
 
