PUNE: The   arrested  , a criminal on police record, when he arrived at a   in Panvel to meet his   last month. 

 The cops had to wait for 12 days before they could nab him. Kamble’s interrogation led to the solving of 12 recent cases, including two chain snatchings, one armed robbery, five burglaries and four vehicle thefts. 
 
 Kamble (30), having about 70 cases registered against him since 2007, entered the world of crime at the age of 15. A resident of Pashan, Kamble was released from the Yerawada central jail on September 18 last year. He, with his accomplice Nilesh Saste (22) from Pimpri, had committed a series of crimes in Kondhwa and Wanowrie in 2016. 
 
 Riding on a scooter, the duo had snatched the gold chain of Rukmini Gaikwad (64) who was on her morning walk on NIBM road on November 14.
 
 On December 3, they robbed garments dealer Suraj Tarwani (46) of a gold chain and two rings in Kondhwa. However, a passerby took down Saste’s scooter registration number and he was   the next day. 
 
 Saste told the cops about Kamble’s involvement in the two cases. Kamble continued to evade arrest even as police searched several places in Pashan, Kondhwa, Yerawada and Navi Mumbai.
 
 Senior inspector Satish Govekar, in charge of the Kondhwa police station, received a tip-off that Kamble would be visiting his girlfriend at the dance bar or at her Kalyan residence.
 
  A trap was laid outside the dance bar for 12 days and he was caught on December 26. 
 
 Kamble confessed to have committed a series of crimes either individually or with the help of Saste and another accomplice, Akash Gore. His modus operandi was to keep changing his partners to confuse the police. Gold ornaments and four motorcycles, collectively worth Rs 4.5 lakh have been recovered from Kamble.
 
 He has been visiting the dance bar for the last 10 years. He made friends with the bar dancer after introducing himself as the son of a corporator from Pune. 
 
 After she came to know about his criminal background, she started avoiding him, but Kamble threatened to kill her son if she avoided meeting him.
 
 
