BENGALURU: In March last year, residents of southeast Bengaluru found swarms of insects, thought to be caterpillars, crawling on the walls of their houses, some even slinking in through windows. Leaving the honge tree (pongam or Indian beech), these insects crawled into the houses.

 Environmentalists told the anxious residents that the insects were only heading into houses in search of shade. However, residents weren’t able to fathom why insects were abandoning trees, their natural habitat, and seeking refuge in houses. A research study recently conducted by the Institute of Wood Science and Technology ( ) found that last year’s prolonged dry spell, coupled with failure of monsoon, resulted in the insect population multiplying, leading to the outbreak.
 
 The insects are called  , commonly known as cockerell, generally infest the honge trees in February, coinciding with the flowering period. However, the cockerells were found in large numbers even in November, an indicator of the effect climate change has had on breeding patterns of these pests. The researchers warn that such outbreaks could be more frequent this year.
 
 R   from the forest and wood protection division, IWST, said, “The population of insects peaks during March and April, before gradually disappearing from the trees with the onset of the rainy season. But in 2016, they were found on the trees even in the beginning of November.”
 
 He said such outbreaks had been observed in other localities, albeit on a smaller scale in 2013, ’14 and ’15 too. Attributing such aberrations in the reproduction patterns of the pests to climate change, Sundararaj added, “Reduced rainfall, coupled with global warming, has altered the generation cycle of phytophagous insects, which feed on green plants. The prevalent dry climate is conducive to an outbreak of these pests. Monsoon failure in 2016 eliminated the limiting factor.”
 
 Another IWST researcher endorsed Sundararaj’s observations. “With rainfall patterns being disrupted as a consequence of climate change, the population of these insects is likely to grow with great intensity. We could be seeing an increase in numbers of a whole spectrum of pests,” he said.
 
 Sandalwood trees not spared from pest trouble either
 
 IWST researchers have found the Ferrisia Virgata or cockerell also infected sandalwood trees. “For   and  , where the trees grow in large numbers, pest management will be a huge challenge. We need to analyse the problem in detail and prepare an action plan,” said an IWST researcher.
 
 
