DELHI: Several parts of Delhi could face a   as production in the Chandrawal and Wazirabad water treatment plants, supplying to central and  ,   areas and Delhi Cantt, was stopped entirely around 1 am on Sunday due to extremely high levels of ammonia in the raw water.

 Delhi Jal Board said there was no need to panic as demand in the city was already low and there was water in reservoirs which would be used to augment supply in the latter part of the day.
 
 Simultaneously, production in the Haiderpur plant was also down to 50% and was expected to impact supply in parts of south and southwest Delhi. The Dwarka plant also reportedly saw production dip to 85% in the early hours. However, both plants reportedly resumed normal supply by late morning.
 
 Out of the 900 million gallons per day of water that is treated in Delhi, the Wazirabad and Chandrawal plants account for about 220 MGD. Haiderpur was treating about 100 MGD against a capacity of 200 MGD.
 
 Sources in Delhi Jal Board said that there was a leakage in the carrier lined channel that transports water from Haryana to Delhi. To mend this leak, supply in the CLC was reduced and diverted to the river course. The river channel, which receives a huge quantity of untreated waste water from districts of Sonipat and Panipat in Haryana, often ends up contaminating Delhi’s supply. “If the quantum of ammonia in raw water increases to 0.5 parts per million and beyond, the operation of treatment of raw water has to be suspended as ammonia, with the treating agent chlorine, gives rise to trihalomethane which is carcinogenic in nature. On Sunday morning, the level had touched 3 ppm which is impossible to treat and hence production at 
 both plants was shut entirely,” said an official.
 
 Officials said that the ammonia neutralization plant, set up by DJB last year to ensure that supply does not get affected if ammonia levels went up in raw water, was also ineffective against the high levels. However, sources said that the plant had actually never really worked after its trial period.
 Meanwhile, DJB had asked a team from Central Pollution Control Board to pick up samples of water from their ponds. Delhi has faced a frequent problem of water contamination due to pollution from Haryana and while the matter has even been raised with the water resources minister Uma Bharati, nothing much has improved.
 
 Delhi has also requested Haryana to release an additional 600 cusec of water to dilute existing supply. If cleared immediately, this would reach Delhi by Sunday evening. Sources said that production would remain affected all of Sunday since even if the plants started production later in the day, it would take a few hours to get the systems working at full capacity.
 
