NAGPUR: Even before taking on other party candidates in the upcoming municipal elections, some heavyweights and sitting corporators from BJP and   are facing tough competition for candidature from within their respective parties. As for the BJP, chief minister Devendra Fadnavis’s two close friends — Sandip Joshi and Omprakash (Munna) Yadav — have sought candidature from the same seat. Similarly, two prominent faces of the Congress at city level — city unit president Vikas Thakre and senior corporator Praful Gudadhe — have sought candidature from the same seat.

 Both the major parties — BJP and Congress — have commenced interviewing workers who have sought tickets for contesting the municipal polls. Interviews have revealed that some of the heavyweights would not have a cakewalk even in getting ticket for the desired seat.
 
 Joshi and Yadav, both corporators in current regime, have submitted forms seeking candidature from seat-D of Ward No. 16. The ward is considered a safe seat for the BJP. One seat in the ward — D — is reserved for general category from which Joshi and Yadav have sought ticket. The other three seats are reserved for SC (general), OBC (women) and general (women). Therefore, it will be a tough situation for the BJP and even for the CM to finalize candidate from this particular seat.
 
 BJP sources told TOI Yadav has suggested Joshi to move to Ward No. 36, but the latter too is firm on his decision. “Yadav had “relinquished” his candidature for Joshi in the past and remained away from the polls by fielding his wife. Now, Yadav too wants to stake his claim on the seat,” sources said.
 
 In Congress, Thakre and Gudadhe have submitted forms from Ward No. 38, the smallest among all wards. The ward comprises parts of existing wards represented by the two leaders. Only one of them can get ticket from there as the ward comprises only three seats of which one is reserved for OBC (general) on which the duo has staked claim. Other two seats have been reserved for women of which one is for SC and other for general category. Congress will have to handle the situation very carefully as both the candidates have potential to decide the party’s fate in the municipal elections. In the past too, Thakre and Gudadhe had keen rivalry for the post of leader of opposition at the NMC.
 
 Congress sources told TOI Thakre has slight advantage over Gudadhe as city president. “It is likely that Thakre will offer general (women) seat for Gudadhe so that he can field any female member from his family. Gudadhe may also be given candidature from other ward as he has potential to fight from the adjacent wards as he had contested against Devendra Fadnavis in South-West constituency,” sources said.
 
 On Monday, three top office-bearers at the NMC — mayor Pravin Datke, standing committee chairman Sudhir Raut and ruling party leader Dayashankar Tiwari — appeared for interviews in front of BJP panel.
 
 Datke and Raut have also staked claim for the same seat but chances of their clash are remote. The two BJP leaders wished to contest from seat-A of Ward-18 that is reserved for OBC (general). One of the three remaining seats is general so BJP can shift one of the two to this seat. It will become a strong BJP seat if Datke and Raut contest in one panel. It is the prestigious ward for BJP as Union minister   is a resident of this ward.
 
 However, there is a big fight for two seats reserved for women in this ward. The two seats are for general category. Former mayor Achana Dehankar and three sitting corporators — Rashmi Fadnavis, Sarika Nandurkar and Prabha Jagnade — have sought candidature.
 
 Similarly, BJP will face tough time in selecting candidates from two more wards. From Ward-37, senior leaders and corporators Girish Deshmukh and Gopal Bohare have sought ticket. Some big faces of BJP’s South-West unit — Prakash Totwani, Sanjay Bhonde, Narayan Ahuja, Prakash Bhoyar, Kishor Wankhede and Dilip Diwe — submitted forms from Ward No. 36.
 
 
