Visakhapatnam:Visakhapatnam: From cultivation of jute to the process of retting, farmers are subjected to the vagaries of nature. This results in the harvest of the ‘Golden fibre of India’ being replaced with other cereal crops like maize. In anticipation of good jute yields this year, Jute Corporation of India(JCI) is gearing up to cater to the interests of farmers.

 A slew of initiatives such as Jute-ICARE, Bhuvan jump app, SONALI and international marketing are being taken to step up the agronomical practices. The corporation aims at implementing the Centre’s policy to provide all jute growers across the country with minimum support price and also make the price stable in raw jute sector.
 
 The corporation, in association with ISRO, has come up with the Bhuvan Jump mobile app that proves to be instrumental for field data collection. The ISRO assesses the photos of the jute plant clicked from different locations. Besides, they keep track of the nature, colour, defects and other important features so as to zoom the production of the crop. 
 
 “As a pilot initiative for 2016-17, JCI was entrusted with the task to collect field data for Bhuvan Jump. As many as 100 employees have been pressed into service for data collection and verification”, said, KVR Murthy, Chairman and Managing Director, Jute Corporation of India. He also added that using this technology, it is easier to make estimates of the crop.
 
 'Jute I-CARE'(Improved Cultivation and Advanced Retting Exercise) programme, launched in 2015 through the National Jute Board and Jute Corporation of India, has covered close to 50,000 hectares of area, with 75,000 farmers having registered in 2017.
 
 The corporation started Sonali, a retail outlet to boost the promotion and marketing of diverse jute products. Murthy said that one such outlet is on the cards in the Port city and added, “We are mulling over jute banking for the benefit of farmers. Also we are striving to explore the scope of geo-textiles business in tandem with National Jute Board.” He said that they have reached almost the final stage of tying up with Patanjali for supply and packaging products encouraging protection of the environment.
 
 
