HYDERABAD: The humble cycle rickshaw still plies on   roads ferrying passengers. And the men who toil hard, in a bid to earn some amount to keep the kitchen fires burning at home, see no way out of their daily grind.

 “There were no buses when I started pulling the cycle rickshaw,“   who appears to be in his late 60s told  . “In fact, there were no cars, auto rickshaws or bikes either,“ he added.
 
 But times have indeed changed. Transportation has completely changed in Old City. Then why does he still pull a cycle rickshaw?
 
 “I have a family to take care of. What else can I do?“ he asked. He might at the end of the day earn `200. Hussain's eyes well with tears near the Charminar bus stand.
 
 Hussain is not the only one whose life depends on the cycle rickshaw. “It is gruelling and hard work. I get exhausted,“ said a much younger Mohammed, who was ferrying a passenger. For him an option could be to buy an auto. “But where will I get the money from,“ he asks. Pulling the rickshaw be comes even more difficult, especially when more than two people insist on sitting in it. Though it is a two-seater, Mohammed does not refuse -at least if it is for shorter distances.
 
 The cycle rickshaw pullers get off the road and go home before the sun sets for obvious reasons. It can be dangerous since the cycle rickshaw has no lights.
 
 Until three decades ago, the cycle rickshaw was a common means of transport in the entire city. School children were ferried in them. Then the autos came in and so did the special school buses and vans. But 60-yearold Majid still ferries school children at   to a local school. In between school timings, he ferries passengers.
 
 “There is no fixed price as such. It all depends on how much the passenger is willing to pay,“ Majid said.
 
 In Secunderabad, cycle rickshaws can hardly been seen. If at all they are spotted, they can be seen transporting goods. In Old City, too, many cycle rickshaws at   market, Afzal Gunj and Charminar areas are hired for transporting goods. The heavy load makes life miserable for the rickshaw puller but traders prefer them so that they can be given lesser amount than trolleys. If hiring a trolley could cost `300, the cycle rickshawwallah may settle for `100.
 
 Interestingly, none of the rickshaw pullers seem to be interested in giving up on their vocation. “This is all what we know to do,“ they said. For them, it is hard work on all days, and for tourists the cycle rickshaw is an additional attraction.
 
