CHENNAI:   on Monday whizzed through the arterial roads of New Delhi on Monday to catch up with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, President-elect Ram Nath Kovind, NDA vice-president candidate Venkaiah Naidu and a few Union ministers. While AIADMK-Puratchi Thalaivi Amma leader O Panneerselvam and a few of his colleagues managed to meet the PM, a six-member ministerial team from the   called on Union ministers to make a last-ditch attempt for Tamil Nadu’s exemption from NEET for medical and dental admission.

 Panneerselvam and his team of leaders and MPs met the PM for more than 30 minutes in the midst of a stormy Parliament session. “After five minutes of meeting the team, Modi had an one-on-one discussion with Panneerselvam, during which   was present. The talks veered around the political situation prevailing in Tamil Nadu and all recent developments involving EPS government,” said a party leader. The OPS camp has been critical of the EPS government and its functioning, with Panneerselvam accusing Palaniswami of striking a “secret alliance” with DMK. A press statement, however, claimed the leaders discussed NEET exemption and hydrocarbon projects.
 
 The Modi government extended a special invite to Panneerselvam for the swearing-in ceremony of the President-elect while CM Palaniswami took a flight to the capital on Monday evening to attend the event. After endorsing the candidature of Ram Nath Kovind, the factions extended their support to vice-president candidate Venkaiah Naidu. Both leaders got a call from Modi soon after Naidu’s candidature was announced. With the BJP leadership opposed to the Sasikala clan, the EPS faction has been at pains to prove that they have been distanced. In Delhi, Palaniswami pointed out to reporters about the ongoing investigation on allegations of special privileges extended to Sasikala in prison. 
 
 His cabinet colleagues were already in Delhi for the second time in less than a week. After a round of talks with Union ministers J P Nadda, Prakash Javadekar and Ravi Shankar Prasad, the team of six ministers, P Thangamani, S P Velumani, D Jayakumar, C Ve Shanmugam, K Anbazhagan and C Vijaya Baskar met ministers Rajnath Singh and Arun Jaitley. “We detailed the need for NEET exemption as the future of four lakh students of state board is at risk. As a last choice, we suggested a two-year exemption could be given beginning this year, as medical counselling is yet to begin,” a senior minister told TOI. 
 
 With inputs from B Sivakumar
 
 
