BELAGAVI: The city, once known for grooming   players for the Indian team, now lacks basic facilities. Hockey has been played here since the   era. 

 There have been great players like the late   who represented the Indian team, which won the silver and gold medals during the 1960 Rome and 1964 Tokyo Olympics. Shankar Laxman of   was the goalkeeper of the Indian team at the 1956, 1960 and 1964   and he won two gold medals and a silver medal. He was the first goalkeeper to become the captain of an international hockey team. 
 
 Shantram Jadhav played for the national team and Belagavi has given many players who have performed well at national and state-level championships.
 
 Many girls and boys have been carrying forward this legacy. But sadly, Belagavi does not have a proper hockey ground. The Major BA Sayyad Memorial Ground near the Dhobhi Ghat in Camp Area is meant for hockey but due to the government’s apathy, it has become a den of illegal activities and often, youths play cricket here. 
 
 Nidhi Kolha, a university player from Belagavi, said, “We can play at the college ground now. But what about players who don’t have a hockey pitch in their school? There are many grounds here for cricket, but not a single hockey ground is maintained well. At times, we practice on the roads.”
 
 Ghoolappa Hosamani, president, Belagavi District Hockey Association, said there is a hockey ground in the Camp area but often, defence officials won’t allow tournaments to be organized there. “About three years ago, I submitted a memorandum to the district authority to allot government land in Nanawadi area to develop a hockey stadium. We did not get any response. If the government allots the land, the state hockey association is ready to invest Rs 4 crore to develop a national-standard stadium,” he said. 
 
 Basavaraj, deputy director, sports department, said, “We asked the Belagavi City Corporation to allot 4 acres near Dharmanath Bhavan at Ashok Nagar to develop a hockey stadium but it rejected the proposal. There is land available at   where the hockey stadium can be developed without cutting trees. If the hockey association identifies a land and comes up with a fresh proposal, we’re ready to send the proposal to the department concerned.”
 
 
