BAREILLY:  , the truck driver from   whose identity papers were allegedly used by a man named Syed Imtiyaz Qadri to present himself in court as “Ishaq Ahmed, the driver of the Audi used by Dr Harish Rawat” at the time of the accident in Indirapuram on January 28, said he will give his statement to the Ghaziabad police and court on Tuesday.

 Ishaq told TOI on Monday he will put it in writing that Qadri, a family friend who had some of his identity documents, surrendered in court impersonating him. A copy of his driving licence was one of the papers used.
 
 “My family and I have been in trauma since we learnt that I have been framed in this tragic incident that claimed the lives of four innocent persons. I left my truck midway (somewhere in Assam) and requested the co-driver to deliver the consignment alone as my only focus is to get my name cleared from the entire incident. After meeting my relatives in Bareilly, I will leave for Ghaziabad on Tuesday to inform police and court that I was in Gujarat when the Audi collided with the auto on the midnight of January 27,” said Ishaq.
 
 He added, “On February 3, when I got a call from The Times of India, I didn’t understand how my name had been dragged into the controversy. After thinking hard about it, I realised that Qadri was the only person who had a photocopy of my driving license. When I first asked about it, he denied he had anything to do with it. Later, when I told him that I will not press charges against him if he comes clean on his involvement in the whole matter, he relented and told me everything. He told me that he fell into a ‘trap’ and he went to court as me for money.”
 
 TOI was the first to report that Qadri was the imposter who surrendered in the Ghaziabad court on January 31, posing as Ishaq Ahmed and claiming that he was driving Rawat’s car that fateful night.
 
 Meanwhile, police here have formed a team to nab Qadri, who fled from his rented room on Saturday. Inspector Geetash Kapil at Baradari police station said, “A team led by Barrier 2 police outpost is trying to trace Qadri, who is absconding. However, we have not yet got any leads.”
 
 Acting on a tip-off, local cops here had raided the house on Saturday night, but Qadri had fled by then. His wife and children also left the house on Sunday. 
 
 
