Bhopal: With MP Board exam results for Class 10 and 12 to be declared on May 12, the school education department has decided to conduct workshops for unsuccessful students to prepare them for re-exam under save a year ‘Ruk Jana Nahi’ scheme.

 At a meeting with open school education council on May 6 headed by state school education minister Vijay Shah, it was decided that unsuccessful students of Class 10 and 12 board examinations would be guided and prepared for re-examination.
 
 It was informed the open school board will start competency programme in Bhopal, Chhatarpur, Jabalpur, Raisen, Gwalior and Khandwa to prepare students from May 10.
 
 “Over 80,000 students passed the board examination from the time of launch of the scheme last year. Under the scheme, the examination will be held in two phases: June and November,” sources privy to meeting told TOI.
 
 Shah told officials unsuccessful students sometimes may take steps, which are harmful for them. All efforts should be made to handle and treat them carefully.
 
 “The unsuccessful students should contact officer in concerned district education offices and seek help from them. The officers shall provide information on re-exam and scheme in a proper manner and should also try to counsel them,” Shah told officers.
 
 Last year, about 1.73 lakh students of Class 10 and 12, who were not able to clear two or more subjects in Madhya Pradesh Board of Secondary Education (MPBSE) examinations had enrolled under the scheme, which gave them another chance to write the exam.
 
 Of the 77,158 Class 12 students, who gave exam in June, 14,155 could clear all subjects as per official records. The scheme is part of the state government initiative to curb number of suicides. The examination-related stress forced 45 students to kill themselves in the state in 2016. 
 
 “The minister directed officials to keep a watch on mushrooming of coaching centres and suggested coaching institutes providing coaching for engineering and medical entrance exams should be specially controlled. He suggested making of rules in this regard,” official sources said.
 
 He raised the concern regarding “exorbitant” fee being charged by the coaching institutes in the state. It was informed at the meeting, a budget proposal of Rs 38 crore was approved for 2017-18 for open school, MPBSE, textbook corporation, tribal welfare and finance department.
 
 
