HYDERABAD: Two years after chief minister   promised a rubath (guesthouse) or ‘Hyderabad House’ in Ajmer for pilgrims from Teleangana, the plan is still on paper. The government sanctioned Rs 5 crore for the project that offered free stay for pilgrims visiting the dargah (shrine) of Hazrat Moinuddin Chisti in Ajmer in Rajasthan.

 The minorities welfare department has not been able to start work on the construction of the rubath. Every year, lakhs of people of all faiths go to the dargah,  , from the state.
 
 After the formation of Telangana, KCR had offered a ‘chadar’ to saint Khwaja Moinuddin Chisti and it was taken on his behalf to Ajmer by minorities welfare department officials. He had said he would lay the foundation stone for the construction of the rubath.
 
 The Nizam, the erstwhile ruler of Hyderabad State, had constructed a rubath at Mecca, which is still used by Haj pilgrims. KCR had promised a multi-storied guesthouse on about two acres of land.
 
 Sources said the non-availability of land in the vicinity of the dargah was the reason for the project not taking off. Though officials of the minorities welfare department visited Ajmer and held talks with revenue officials of the Rajasthan state government, two acres of land could not be identified near the shrine.
 
 Officials said a two-acre site had been identified by the Rajasthan government but it was 5km from the dargah. “Constructing a rubath or Hyderabad guesthouse 5km away from the shrine would defeat the purpose of the project. It is to provide easy access for pilgrims from Telangana to the shrine,” a senior official said.
 
 Iliyas Shamsi, president of  , an NGO, said the government should not only speed up the construction of the rubath but also ask Railways to increase train services from Hyderabad to Ajmer. “Lakhs of people from all religions go to Ajmer from the state capital every year. There are only a couple of trains every week which go jam packed. Special trains are run only during the Urs of  . The rubath project should also be viewed from the tourism point of view as people from Telangana go to Ajmer not only to visit the dargah but many extend their trip to other tourist destinations such as Rajasthan, Delhi, Agra and Amritsar,” he said.
 
  Minorities welfare department secretary Syed Omer Jaleel said deputy chief minister Mahmood Ali had decided to meet the Rajasthan chief minister for allotment of land within walking distance of the shrine.
 
