CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday issued notice to the Haryana government on a plea against magisterial powers given to senior police officers under the Haryana Police Act, 2007. The Act empowers the commissioner of police to exercise magisterial powers in his area.

 The matter has reached the HC in the wake of a petition filed by Kurukshetra-based retired   (HCS) officer Prem Chand Gangle.
 
 According to the petitioner, following the   judgment passed in   case of 1996, the court had asked all the states to implement measures for a better police administration. In pursuance to the SC verdict, Haryana government enacted the Act 2007, which came into effect on May 28, 2008.
 
 “The provisions of the Act are in directly in contravention of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) under which all the administrative and executive functions are exercised by an executive magistrate or class of courts of the executive magistrate. These powers are now vested with the police commissioner under the Section 12 of the Haryana Police Act,” the plea says.
 
 The petitioner has also stated that the discretionary powers of superintendent of police to appoint special police officers under the Act may lead to unfair selections, as no qualifications for such police officers have been defined under the law.
 
 He also informed the court under Section 17 of the Act, the forensic science laboratory of the state should function directly under the director general of police. There were chances that such clause may have an adverse effect on the independent investigation in criminal cases, he has argued.
 
 “The division of powers between administration and the police ensures that the citizens are protected against the police atrocities and misuses of power by the force. Removal of this check would mean that a police authority would adjudicate upon the correctness of the action of its own personnel. This is in violation of principles of natural justice,” he has argued.
 
 
