NEW DELHI: The anti-corruption branch (ACB) has filed three FIRs in connection with a “PWD scam“ pertaining to alleged irregularities in the grant of contracts for roads and sewer lines in Delhi.

 One of the FIRs is against  , whose proprietor,  , was chief minister  's brother-in-law. Bansal died on Sunday night.
 
 The FIRs have been lodged under sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act and sections of IPC pertaining to criminal conspiracy and fraud.
 
 Confirming the development, ACB chief Mukesh Meena said that the complainant in the case is one Rahul Sharma of the   (RACO).
 
 The complainant has demanded that the role of the chief minister be investigated as he had allegedly caused substantive gains to Bansal and others by using his influence, a charge denied by the government.
 
 Sharma had approached the court to direct the police to lodge an FIR against Kejriwal, Bansal and a public servant.
 
 It is not clear if the FIRs name Kejriwal, but they do mention the names of one Ms Pawan Kumar, Ms   and Renu Construction as accused, ACB officials said.
 
 Bansal, as the proprietor of Renu Construction, was allegedly awarded the contract to build drainage in North West Delhi's Bakoli village in April 2015, the ACB said.
 
 The case was being probed by the economic offences wing of Delhi Police, which had recently transferred it to ACB after conducting an inquiry. In March, the EOW had submitted a report in this regard before a metropolitan magistrate.The complaint alleged “deep-rooted corruption“ and said the documents obtained from PWD through RTI showed no material was actually purchased for executing the projects.
 
 The complainant has alleged that documents alleged that documents showing purchase of material were “concocted and forged“, and a loss of over Rs 10 crore had been caused to the public exchequer.
 
 The complainant alleged that Renu Construction operated through several dummy firms to obtain government contracts in connivance with several senior PWD officials.
 
 “These contracts never got executed whereas shockingly all the payments were cleared under pressure from government,“ the complaint alleged. During the course of the inquiry, notices were served to Bansal and two other accused -Kamal Singh and Pawan Kumar -to provide information and documents. The three had subsequently joined investigation. The police had then filed a status report in the court in this regard.
 
