CHANDIGARH: As he potted one of the red balls with   in the initial frame against Hong Kong's Ming Wa Man, 14-year-old   from Haryana's   became the youngest Asian to participate in the Asian Billiards & Snooker Championship here on Sunday.

 The boy has been creating waves since the time he picked up the cue as an 11-year-old.
 
 Digvijay bagged a silver in the All India U-16 Cubs Championship in Lucknow in 2014 and then onwards it has been a fairytale run. He was a semifinalist in the Haryana State Championship in 2014 and reached third round in the Nationals in 2015. The teenager was also among the top-48 in U-18 World Snooker Championship held in Russia in 2015.
 
 In January 2016, he was runners-up in U-18 Nationals held at Indore and was among the top-32 in World Championship held last year in Belgium. Even this year, in the Nationals held at Pune, Digvijay did well and finished as runners-up in the U-18 category. "I have worked extremely hard on my game, which has given me confidence," Digvijay tells TOI. 
 
 Now, rubbing shoulders with the high and mighty of snooker and billiards at the Asian championship - where international stars like Pankaj Advani, Saurav Kothari and Dhru Sitwala are taking part - Digvijay hopes to put up a creditable performance.
 
 "I hope to put up a challenging show in the tournament and live up to the expectation of my coach," he said.
 
 And, his coach is none other than former Asian billiards as well as snooker champion Alok Kumar - who puts up in Chandigarh these days and runs his own academy.
 
 "He (Digvijay) has all the makings of a champion," Kumar gushes, when asked about his ward.
 
 "I can even say that Digvijay's skills in snooker, at his age, is at par with Pankaj (Advani) when Pankaj was a 14-year-old," Kumar adds.
 
 Digvijay's father   runs a snooker club in Rohtak. As an 8-year-old, young Digvijay used to accompany his father to the club and was fascinated seeing people stroke "multi-coloured balls on a table with a stick in hand".
 
 "I was captivated by the sport when I was very young. My father encouraged me to take up the sport. Later, he felt the need to get me a professional coach in order to enhance my skills. So, I came to Chandigarh and Alok sir took me under his wings. He has been instrumental in raising the standard of my game," says Digvijay.
 
 "His (Digvijay) father got in touch with me when he was just 11 years. Initially, I was reluctant, since he was so young. And, I didn't take him under my wings for nearly 6 months. But when I met Digivijay, I was impressed by his talent. He could perform every stroke, which I asked him to execute, with perfection. So, I decided to train him," adds Kumar.
 
 Alok is planning to take Digvijay to England this year or the next so that his protégé can get proper training from a qualified coach.
 
 "Digvijay's progress has been good. I am planning to take him to England this year or the next so that he can get proper coaching there. I am not a qualified coach; but I will accompany him and make sure he gets proper training there," Kumar signs off.
 
