RAIPUR: The opposition Congress on Thursday staged a walkout in the Chhattisgarh Assembly accusing the state government of not using   generated from   for the   to "shield" construction agencies. 

 Raising the issue in the Question Hour, Congress MLA Arun Vora, who represents Durg seat, asked PWD Minister   about the timeline of the construction of the six/four lane Raipur-Bilaspur Road and its date of completion. 
 
 "How many times the time limit has been extended and how much amount was sanctioned for the project?" he asked. 
 
 Vora also sought to know whether the state government had received any complaint regarding the quality of construction and if any action is taken. 
 
 In his reply, the minister stated that construction works had begun on Raipur to Simga on April 21, 2016; Simga to Sargaon on May 5, 2016 and for Sargaon to Bilaspur on April 21, 2016 (between Raipur to Bilaspur). 
 
 He stated the work is slated to be completed within two years and the time limit was not extended. 
 
 "(A fund of) Rs 766.74 crore was sanctioned for Raipur to Simga, Rs 639.64 crore for Simga to Sargaon and Rs 535.22 crore was sanctioned for Sargaon to Bilaspur. The complaint was received against quality of construction in Simga to Sargaon sector and was disposed of accordingly," Munat said. 
 
 The Congress MLA and state unit party president Bhupesh Baghel sought to know from the minister whether a complaint has been registered with the   against the said road for non-usage of fly-ash generated from power plants. 
 
 "Within a distance of 100 kms, there are numbers of power plants which generate substantial amount of fly-ash," Baghel added. 
 
 In his response, the PWD minister said a directive has been issued to all three agencies involved in the construction of the road for usage of fly-ash with priority. 
 
 The Leader of Opposition TS Singhdeo asked Munat to name the section on the 114-km highway where fly-ash had been used. 
 
 The minister replied that a directive has already been issued and he will ensure that it will be complied with. 
 
 Unsatisfied with his reply, the Opposition members staged a walkout alleging that state government is trying to save construction agencies and fly-ash is not being used anywhere.
