NEW DELHI: Chief justice of India  , who leaves office on Tuesday, had the difficult task of working with the government to fill up judicial vacancies across the country in his short tenure but wasn’t successful in that endeavour. Thakur will be succeeded by justice JS Khehar.
 
  At least half the high courts were functioning at half their strength when Thakur took over in 2015. Thakur tried everything, even making an emotional plea to Prime Minister Narendra Modi at a public event, citing cases piling up and eroding the judiciary’s credibility in recent years. He even indulged in tea diplomacy on the side.
  
  But when nothing seemed to work, he didn’t hesitate to cross swords publicly with the government on this--taking potshots at the Prime Minister for ignoring the judiciary’s demands for more funds and staff in his Independence Day address.
  
  The government didn’t budge, insisting both in court and outside that it had made the maximum number of judicial appointments, over 100, in just over two years. Law ministry officials questioned the rationale of trying to hurry up the process after what they said were years of judicial lethargy over filling up vacancies.
  
  Some questioned the collegium’s failure to fill seven posts in the top court itself. To be sure, though, the case load is heaviest in the trial courts. The government contended that the problem did not crop up overnight. Why did the court not initiate the process earlier, a law ministry official asked. Some advocates questioned Thakur’s rulings in cases such as the diesel cess to improve the environment, the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) case, banning liquor vends along highways and entry tax. “This is nothing but judicial over-reach,” a senior advocate said, referring to the rulings.
  
  “What is his great contribution in terms of landmark judgements? Why has he referred the demonetisation move to the Constitution bench? What is it going to decide?” He also questioned Thakur’s legacy.
  
  “What is his great contribution to the judiciary? At least Justice RM Lodha (former CJI) in his short stint had some outstanding lawyers elevated as judges.” Some said Thakur’s court was also a house divided, referring to Jasti Chelameswar’s refusal to work with the collegium due to the alleged lack of transparency.
  
  A former CJI said Thakur’s stint was a “lost opportunity.” He had the chance of working behind the scenes with the government, acting tactfully to get things moving but failed, the person said, refusing to expand on this. A senior advocate said: “He took over when there was a leadership crisis of sorts in the judiciary... There was so much of expectations from him, but we were all disappointed.”
  
  None of the those who were critical of Thakur wanted to identify themselves. However, the advocate cited above also said: “To his credit, as CJI, justice Thakur withstood great pressure from the government. If only he had been half as proactive in getting his colleagues to rally behind him.”
  
  Former   Bar Association (SBCA) chief and senior advocate Dushyant Dave, however, had nothing but praise for the outgoing chief justice, hinting that his lack of success may have been due to his unwillingness to compromise. 
