KOCHI: In a move which could burn a huge hole in the  's earnings, the   (LSGD) secretary has issued an order directing the local body to grant road-cutting sanction to the   (RJIL) at a lower rate.

 As per the corporation's estimates, the local body would stand to lose revenues running to several hundred crores. Earlier, the industries department had also issued a similar order directing the corporation to grant road-cutting sanction to the Indian Oil Adani Gas Private Ltd ( ) to dig roads at rates lower than the rates fixed by the local body for road restoration. However, the corporation hasn't executed the order as it would lead to huge revenue loss for the corporation. RJIL too had demanded that it should also be allowed to dig up roads at the same rates for laying optical fibre cables.
 
 Based on the application submitted by the RJIL, LSGD secretary issued an order on July 17 without consulting the local body. “If the order is executed, we would suffer huge revenue losses. Given the fact that various telecom firms have been gearing up for introdu cing 4G and other latest facilities in the state, as well as in the city, we have been expecting a revenue leap on account of track rent. Moreover, many of the roads owned by the corporation have been re-laid by the Metro agencies as well as the civic body and the amount to be provided by the telecom firm and the IOAGPL wouldn't be enough for restoring these roads and meet the same stan dards. For the city gas project, close to 900km-long roads will have to be dug up,“ said PM Harris, chairman, works standing committee, Kochi Corporation.
 
 “When we worked out the rates as per   specifications while considering an application given by the IOAGPL for cutting around 4,000 sq m of road (which comes to roughly 4km), we came to know that the corporation would suffer a loss of Rs 79 lakh,“ Harris said.
 
 “The local body will suffer losses to the tune of Rs 200 crore if we give the road-cutting sanction at a lower rate for the entire 900km road. Taking into account the road digging by telecom agencies (RJIL plans to dig up to around 2,415 km, especially in Kochi), the corporation will have to spend a huge amount to re-lay the roads. So, the government should compensate us for the loss we will face on account of its directive to give road-cutting sanction at lower rates,“ he said.
 
 Local self-government minister K T Jaleel, o the other hand, said the government wants to unify the rates.
 
 “Companies have been making huge investments. So, we can't disappoint and dissuade them,“ Jaleel said. “Road restoration can't be a business deal (so as to generate revenue out of it),“ he said.
 
 Meanwhile, the corporation council held on July 11discussed the government order directing the local body to grant road-cutting permission to IOAGPL at the rate fixed by the PWD.
 
 “We have decided to convene an all-party meeting to discuss the issue. Then, we will write to the state government,“ Harris said.
 
