GURGAON: Traffic snarls disrupted mobility on Delhi-Gurgaon expressway on Wednesday morning, following an   in which a   rammed into a   car near Atlas Chowk. 

 The accident happened around 7am on the Delhi-Jaipur side of the main carriageway. A silver   (DL9C AK 2853), coming from Delhi, halted near Atlas Chowk as the driver had to drop his co-passenger near Cyber City. A white Ertiga cab (HR55 X 4832), with four passengers heading towards Manesar, suddenly rammed into it. The impact was so strong the WagonR skidded for some 20m and collided with the jersey barriers at Exit 6 along the national  . Both cars were severely damaged. 
 
 Fortunately, the four passengers and driver of the Ertiga escaped with minor injuries. The driver of the WagonR, Yudhishthir, a resident of Delhi’s Palam Colony, received injures in his chest and nose. He is being treated at a private hospital.
 
 With the rescue operation continuing till 9am, and the damaged cars clogging the expressway till then, traffic snarls started building up on the national highway. Vehicles from the Delhi side started entering soon after 8am, by when vehicles from Cyber City side too reached Atlas Chowk. This led to congestion and tailbacks that stretched to Sirhaul toll plaza, Shankar Chowk and Cyber City on internal roads.
 
 Though the damaged cars were removed by 9am, it took another hour for the congestion to clear. “I’ve been moving inch by inch since I entered Gurgaon an hour ago. We were told there’s been an accident up ahead. With such long queues, I doubt the jam will clear anytime soon,” said Surendra Singh, a marketing executive on the phone. 
 
 Later in the day, cops recorded Yudhishthir’s statement and registered an FIR at DLF Phase 2 police station, under sections 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way), 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of Rs 50) against the cab driver, who had fled after the accident. 
 
 “There were snarls as the entry to the highway was partially blocked, and one of the damaged cars was on the main carriageway. But they were soon removed, and there was no traffic jam afterwards, though there was heavy congestion during morning rush hour,” said ACP Manish Sehgal.
 
 
