City-based choreographer   has unpleasant memories of playing the role of a witch in her school plays. She always wondered why she never got a chance to play the lead character. Quite resentfully, she gradually realised that it was her skin colour which hindered her chances. “I remember playing the villain role in all the stage shows during my school days. The Snow White always (even today) had to be a pretty girl and I had no qualms in accepting it. I was always the witch — I used to be called koila which means coal. The experiences as a child, be it good or bad, often leave such an impact on you,” begins   as she shares her story with  . The 34-year-old has now come a long way. Today, Aparnaa runs her own all-girls dance ensemble; she is a contemporary dancer and a much-in demand choreographer.

 
 Hailing from a conservative Tamil brahmin family, Aparnaa believes that she nurtured her dancing skills from her father. “My late father was in the army and I never got to spend too much time with him. I was told that he used to dance a lot during the army parties and somewhere I think dance came to me from him,” shares Aparnaa, who never really bothered about her skin colour, till she entered her teens. “Between 7th and 9th grade, I was bullied because of my skin colour. It was a typical angsty period. But sports kept me going. I was an athlete, house captain, wearing tattered clothes, soiled hair. But I always liked doing craft work, cooking, and dressing up, etc. It was a very confusing period for me to realise what I wanted to do. I also used to be part of dance shows, used to choreograph for flat concerts, etc. It was in the 10th standard that I put my foot down and started dancing. I joined a western dance school and also got an opportunity to head to   as part of a culture connect programme. I came back and choreographed for Stagefright Theatre Company,” shares Aparnaa.
 
 
 Incidentally High Kicks, an all-girls dance ensemble, was started on Women’s Day with a few girls. Today, there are 27 girls and the team turned six yesterday. “When I started my journey, I remember being rejected for my skin colour. Television producers used to ask me to apply a lot of powder and come. I have got calls from Mumbai for a dancer and they would say, ‘I want a tall, thin and fair dancer. So, nobody cares about the dance. It is all about the looks. Even today, things haven’t changed. Maybe very moderately. Back then, there were not many shades for brown-skinned people and I used to struggle to find a lipstick for myself. I remember I used to break down backstage because I thought I looked bad. And a lot of it I think was put there in my head. I really struggled to get out of that. I have no compulsions about being rude to people. Last week, for a student project, a film student called asking me for a few dancers. He made the same requirement and I sent a long, rude mail. I have had people request me for item dance numbers or we will be invited for a bachelorette. When men see the term, an-all girl’s ensemble, something goes wrong and twisted in their head. When I started the dance school, I wanted to have a group of really strong empowered women. They think a girl cannot pick up a water can and drink water from it. Why do you need a guy to do this? Take yourself to places. You don’t need to depend. The problem with our society is that girls are never taught to be independent or question things. I am not against a boy being nice to a girl, but it has to be two way. It is not a boy-girl thing, it is about basic courtesy and etiquette,” says a confident Aparnaa.
 
 
 Aparnaa calls herself a feminist, but it is about questioning the norms. “The women who work with me are asked to test their limits — physically, mentally and emotionally. I remember the first time I got my periods; I had to sit in an isolated room, not touch the vessels, etc. We were part of so many school activities, that it was impossible to do that. But I asked my mother, why should I be doing this. Sentimentally, I never went near God or to the puja room. But why shouldn’t I run or do things regularly? I think that moment was one of the stepping stones to protest everything. I am 34 and my mother never questions me about who I am going to marry or what I do. I live alone and I decided to move out. But I was surprised that people are not ready to give a single woman a house. They would ask, ‘Why are you unmarried? What do you do?’ That’s none of their business, clearly. I also remember, when I was a little girl, people used to tell my grandmother, ‘Karuppa irundhalum, kalaya irruka.’ My grandmother hated that sentence. What kind of a statement is that?” questions, the dancer.
 
 
 When life gives you lemons, make lemonade. Well, that’s the funda, Aparnaa followed. “I am somebody who bottles up a lot. When I went to New York to pursue my six-month dance course, from  , my life changed. I was going through a life change and I was going to be alone for the first time, away from home, etc. I had people walking up to me and saying, ‘I love your skin tone. Where are you from, you look so exotic.’ Those were the things a 26-27 year old would like to listen to. I then questioned myself, ‘Why didn’t I realise this?’ I also developed a thyroid issue. I became fat, even though I used to work out every day. I remember I stopped taking pictures of myself for a few years. Even now, it’s a process that I am coming out of. I have come to a point where I realised that I hated myself too much and that I am damaging myself emotionally. When you go through something like that, it’s a lot more powerful, when you start loving yourself. Today, whenever I feel good about myself, I take a selfie. It might be superficial to a few, but to me, it matters a lot. I would only tell women, love yourself, you are worth more than that,” she shares.
 
 
