Thane: After property tax, the   Municipal Corporation ( ) is planning to bring the entire billing   of the   department online. The initiative has been taken to minimise instances of errors and ensure improved tax collections. 

 As per plans, each of the 1.25 lakh domestic consumers and around 10,000 commercial connection users will sooner be able to view and pay their water bills online and make payments accordingly. A unique identification that will be based on the consumer number will be given along with a unique password that can be accessed from anywhere and help residents pay up from anywhere instead of standing in queues.
 
 The facility will be made operational starting next   as the administration will upgrade its systems and train its staff for the same. Presently, the property tax is available online that has been getting a lot of response from residents prompting the administration to latch the water supply department onto the online network. 
 
 The department has been mulling to revamp operations of the water tax collections after a dismal recovery over the last few years. The department failed to meet its Rs 150 cr target last fiscal year following which the administration was working on ways to improve the collections and the decision to bring the payment option online was finalized. The idea is to ensure minimal legwork for any consumer prompting him to pay on time.
 
 “We are planning to bring the water tax collections under the online network that will help us plug any lapses in the system. The facility will help convenience consumers pay their respective taxes in time,” said Omprakash Divate, deputy municipal commissioner in charge of property tax. 
 
 Meanwhile, the administration has also revamped despatch of property tax bills from this financial year by issuing bills in the month of April itself. However, despite this efforts, the bills are yet to reach the consumers as the department wants to rely on its own staff rather than rely on the postal department for issuing the bills as is the practice. 
 
 Activists have expressed concern over the seriousness of the administration that had urged residents to pay their taxes in time by May end and avail of special incentives like 10% rebates. The previous arrears along with present dues if paid by May end would make residents eligible for ten percent rebate in taxes, informed officials. However, the delay on part of the administration has somehow foxed activists and consumers.
 
 “How does the administration expect residents to pay unless they get the bills on time. The initiative is surely commendable but the department should also explore the feasibility of the initiative,” said an activist.
 
 We are planning to bring the water tax collections under the online network that will help us plug any lapses in the system. The facility will help convenience consumers pay their respective taxes in time
 
 
