MUMBAI: Educationists should focus on education and not on the non-academic activities of students and their attire, said Vinod Tawde, state minister for higher and technical education. Students are mature enough to understand what is best for them, he added. 

 The minister was reacting to TOI’s report on Tuesday on Bandra’s Government Polytechnic College’s decision to segregate boys and girls in the   “to curb eveteasing” and the principal’s statement that girls should wear “suitable”   (salwar kameez) to ensure “they don’t start thinking like men and would not lose the urge to reproduce at a later stage in life”.
 
 Tawde told TOI he would ask the principal,  , to focus on improving the quality of polytechnic courses. “I urge principals and vice-chancellors to focus on academics instead of issues relating to students’ attire or seating arrangement,” he added, citing the example of SNDT vice-chancellor who recently issued a circular asking girls to wear ‘decent’ attire on campus. “We are living in an era of co-education.... If there is a specific demand from girls, it should be met. If girls are wearing obscene clothes, they should be corrected. But there is no need for a blanket rule.” 
 
 Social media went into a tizzy with netizens condemning Deshpande’s stance behind introducing a “suitable” uniform for girls who currently wear white shirt and black trousers. She refused comment on Tuesday saying she was busy in Mantralaya. 
 
 On Monday, she had told TOI, “I have heard theories on why girls suffer from PCODs (Poly Cystic Ovarian Diseases) at an early age. When they dress like men, they start thinking or behaving like them...Due to this, the natural urge to reproduce diminishes from a young age and they suffer from problems like PCODs.” She had even said girls tie their hair when then leave home, but leave it open when on campus and also wear “tight” clothes. “It is good to encourage th-em to wear clothes suitable for them,” Deshpande had said.
 
 The female students are not happy with the subtle restrictions on attire already being imposed by the college. “It’s our choice not to tie plaits or tuck in shirt; it’s not related to academics,” said a student. 
 
 
