Ahmedabad: Incessant digging for non-priortised civic line laying works, waterlogging during rains, unregulated building construction, population and traffic stresses have long consumed our urban narrative in Ahmedabad.

 But over the past year,   is trying to change this for Ahmedabad and other cities in the country. Isro-SAC is helping prepare a detailed high quality interactive urban planning maps for Ahmedabad city that can help the civic body priortise resource allocation for undertaking civic works, be it storm water drain planning during rain flood management, water supply, sewerage, pedestrian facilities, public transport, and even for improving amenities such as parks, other green spaces and recreation centres.
 
 While speaking on National Science Day at Space Applications Centre (SAC), director   said, “The satellite maps will be precise in giving the planner an idea of the topography and contour of any place and predict where waterlogging or even puddling can occur first in the city. This way budget for storm water lines can be allocated for areas that would require them the most ahead of the rains,” says Misra. He added that special 3-D maps will be prepared and after adequate computer modelling techniques, the map will also help the planner get an idea of population and upcoming building construction density and future stresses on civic services. 
 
 “A senior Isro official said that the 3-D maps can also help in micro-climatic studies to understand how a particular development work can improve wind flows around buildings and even reduce heat for pedestrians. Such specialized maps will be provided for nearly 500 Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and   (AMRUT) cities and towns in the country.
 
 “These maps once ready will also be accessible to the public on a platform called Bhuvan where citizens can even register their reservations or suggestions on a particular development work while it is on the map itself,” says the Isro official. 
 
 GIFT city in   uses one such 3-D planning maps. In April second week, Isro has planned a workshop for urban planners in a special platform called ‘Bhuvan’ where such specialized maps will be hosted.
 
