BENGALURU: Three days ago, the   ordered that   should be given priority even during  .

 On Monday, an ambulance was stuck in a traffic snarl created by policemen making way for the movement of   near Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee headquarters on Queen's Road in central Bengaluru. Parameshwara, also the KPCC chief, was leaving the party headquarters after attending a meeting in the afternoon when the incident took place.
 
 Police detained private ambulance driver Vishwanath for questioning. In a statement, officers said the ambulance driver was not operating the siren and beacon in accordance with stipulations and that policemen deployed near the KPCC's office didn't hear the sound. The traffic was cleared af ter someone walked up to the police and told them about the ambulance stuck in traffic, Shobha Rani, DCP, traffic West, told reporters.
 
 “Around 11.30am we got a patient with serious cardiac condition. We stabilized the patient and referred him to Jain Hospital, which had better facilities.He was shifted in our ambulance. Our driver told us he is stuck in traffic. It took them around 8-10 minutes to get out of the traffic,“ said Dr Sharif, CMO, Santosh Hospital.
 
 The incident took place notwithstanding the May 5 memo issued by police commissioner Praveen Sood that ambulances and emergency vehicles have to be given right of way even if there is a VVIP nearby .
 
 “Instances of ambulances being detained in traffic due to VVIP movement have been reported in public domain.Whoever the VVIP might be, it generates a lot of adverse publicity for himher and raises questions about our professionalism in traffic manage ment,“ said the memo.
 
 The order was issued after CM Siddaramaiah faced criticism when his convoy blocked an ambulance near Ravindra Kalakshetra on May 2. As his convoy reached Town Hall, po lice stopped traffic on JC Road, and among the vehicles stuck was an ambulance.
 
 The memo said there is no justification in ensuring smooth flow of traffic for VVIPs in disregard to citizens' convenience. “Whenever an ambulance or emergency vehicle is in question, it should be invariably given priority even at the cost of slowing down VVIP movement,“ read the memo.
 
 “Issuing a memo is commendable, but it seems to be a knee-jerk reaction to what happened last week. Implementation is the key in proving whether this memo plays to the gallery or is a good policy change. Policemen on the ground should be given the confidence to stop a VVIP for an ambulance,“ said Vinay Srinivasa, a lawyer and public transport activist.
 
 A senior police officer, who worked with VVIP security for several years, said VVIP conveys are provided clearance so that they don't become sitting ducks for any subversive attacks. “I am sure cops will be able to draw the balance keeping the security aspect in mind,“ said the officer.
 
 
 
 
 Ambulances must be accorded the right of way in all circumstances. A minister's convoy holding up an emergency vehicle for 10 minutes -which falls in what's popularly called the golden hour -must be strongly condemned, and such incidents are becoming nauseatingly familiar.This should stop, ideally without the intervention of traffic cops.There have been proposals in the past to create a dedicated corridor for emergency vehicles, and the government must implement them in earnest.Time is equally precious for all, and VIP convoys must not steamroll over the traffic rights of others by having a breeze-through in a city forever stuck in an endless gridlock.
 
