MYSURU: In a bid to boost the district’s tourism industry, the department has decided to contribute to the development of two waterbodies – Hadinaru Lakeat Nanjangud and Mooguru Lake at T Narsipura. The tourism department is aiming to add the two lakes to the list of popular tourist destinations in Mysuru.

 Cauvery Neeravari Nigama Ltd (CNNL) has initiated desilting of   to increase the storage capacity of the same. CNNL is looking to build a pathway for walkers, and fence the perimeter of the waterbody, which is spread across an area of 200 acres. There are also plans to develop an island in the lake to draw migratory birds. The lake was once home to hundreds of wild geese.
 
 Deputy director of tourism department, Mysuru, HP Janardhan said that efforts would be made to create a conducive ecosystem for birds of various species at Hadinaru lake. “The Mooguru lake is almost completely dry. The Hadinaru lake that attracts exotic birds from Mongolia is dying a slow death. The tourism department will join CNNL in helping to make Hadinaru Lake more attractive,” said Janardhan.
 
 He added that the department would enlist the expertise of Vijay Nishanth, popularly known as the Tree Doctor, to prepare a detailed project report (DPR). “We’ll seek his guidance on choosing different saplings to plant at Hadinaru Lake. Similarly, we will also take up work at the  . We want to develop these places along the lines of   in Mandya,” Janardhan added.
 
 The tourism department aims to turn the two lakes into an important destination for  . While Hadinaru Lake is around 25km from Mysuru, Muguru is 45km from the city. “District in-charge minister HC Mahadevappa has promised to ensure flow of fresh water into Muguru Lake, which falls in his constituency,” said Janardhan.
 
 Confirming that the tourism department had come forward to help develop Hadinaru Lake, CNNL executive engineer Prakash J said, “We will be meeting with the tourism department officials on Monday. The water level at Hadinaru Lake, which is in chief minister Siddaramaiah’s constituency, has been decreasing for the past two years. Development work at the lake, which has been taken up at a cost of Rs 2.1 crore, is under way.”
 
 The island that has been planned at the middle of the lake will have a radius of 100m, CNNL officials said.
 
 
