NAGPUR: The   ( ) won 108 of the total 151 seats in   (NMC) elections. The saffron party’s tally will increase to 112 in the civic body as its will get four of the five co-opted corporators.

 The number of co-opted corporators in NMC is five. The political parties get to appoint co-opted corporators according to their numbers in the NMC house. NMC will have a total of 156 corporators after the co-opted members are appointed.
 
 With 108 corporators in its kitty, BJP’s weightage comes to 3.57 in total of five co-opted corporators. Congress managed to win only 29 seats so its weightage will be 1.35. BSP ended up securing 10 seats, so its weightage will be 0.33. Shiv Sena has only two seats in its pocket and NCP one, so weightage of these two parties makes no difference. Thus, BJP will be appointing four of total five co-opted corporators.
 
 NMC will officially calculate and allot co-opted corporators to BJP and Congress after the election of mayor and deputy mayor. BJP and Congress will have to nominate co-opted corporators to the general body.
 
 It is always tough for any political party to nominate co-opted corporators. There will be a keen tussle within the BJP and Congress for co-opted corporators.
 
 In the last two regimes, BJP had an alliance with independents and small parties, so it could stake claim to majority of co-opted corporators. This time, the BJP will not get any great advantage in co-opted corporators even if it seeks the support of Shiv Sena’s 2 corporators, NCP’s one corporator and one independent corporator  .
 
 Similarly, BJP will be able to name the majority of 16 members in the standing committee, a body that takes all financial decisions in NMC. BJP’s weightage in standing committee comes to 11.40 of the total 16. So, BJP is likely to get 12 of the total 16 standing committee members.
 
 Congress will have to satisfy itself with only three members as its weightage is 3.07. Here, the BSP will get one member as its weightage is 0.99. Shiv Sena and NCP have too few corporators to even think of having members in the standing committee.
 
 Similarly, the BJP will get a majority of its members in all consultative committees.
 
 In the last two regimes, BJP had registered its name as   to rule NMC. This happened as BJP wanted the highest stake in co-opted corporators and standing committee. This time, chances of BJP adopting the same style seems less as it will not get any major advantage. Therefore, BJP may register its own name as the ruling party in the civic body.
 
 The opposition parties — Congress, BSP, Shiv Sena, NCP and one independent corporator Abha Pande — will gain one seat in standing committee in case all of them come together. The opposition’s weightage will become 4.55, so it can get five members. Congress will keep its three, BSP will get one and one can be taken by others on rotation basis over the five-year term.
 
