Nagpur: The Gittikhadan police arrested a hardcore burglar, who was wanted in 19 offences registered at almost every police station, near the Jaripatka graveyard on Monday.

 Cops tightened the noose around him after being informed by his neighbour. The accused identified as Sunil Patle alias Abhay (27) was confident that no one could catch him. He also challenged the cops to catch him, said senior PI RD Nikam.
 
 Police have arrested his two accomplices and recovered three four-wheelers, two expensive bikes, televisions, laptops and gold valuables, totally worth Rs 11.12 lakh. Sambhaji Kadam, deputy commissioner of police (DCP), said Patle would soon be slapped with charges under the MPDA Act.
 
 Patle’s accomplices have been identified as Sanket Shede (22) and Rupesh Pali (27). Both of them have a few offences registered against them and live near Peeli Nadi in Jaripatka. The trio were produced before the court on Monday, which remanded them in police custody till May 19. Cops said Patle stayed alone in Mhada Quarters in Jaripatka as his wife left him a few years ago.
 
 Nikam said Patle has a criminal record since 2013. Within a very short period of time, many offences including burglaries, thefts and molestation were registered against him at Gittikhadan, Bajaj Nagar, Ambazari, Rana Pratap Nagar, Ajni, Sonegaon, Nandanvan and Jaripatka police stations. Whenever he got arrested and produced before the court, he would file false complaint of being brutally beaten up in custody against police.
 
 “Head constable Raj Lohi procured Patle’s cell phone number and called up him. Patle responded to the saying that no one could reach him,” Nikam told TOI. Later, police approached Patle’s neighbour who told them about Patle’s whereabouts.
 
 Cops said Patle never used to believe in his accomplices. Hence, he would choose new crime partners before committing a crime. “Whenever he would sneak into a house, he stole the vehicle’s keys first and used it to take away the valuables. After accomplishing his target, he would keep on roaming and frequently changed sim cards,” police said.
 
 However, apart from the recovered valuables, it is yet to be ascertained as to whom he sold the stolen valuables. They are also trying to find out who were his earlier accomplices and why he took the criminal path.
 
 Police said with Patle’s arrest, many more offences are likely to come to the fore during his interrogation. It has also come to light that he used to visit Mumbai quite often. Accordingly, police are likely to send a squad to Mumbai to get more information about Patle.
 
 
