PUNE: Captain Prabhakar Chowdhary (retd), the 77-year-old war veteran from 17 Maratha Light Infantry (MLI), who fought the Indo-Pak war in 1965 in Jammu and Kashmir, had to take up farming to earn a livelihood as soon as he left the army in the 70s.

 The veteran is neither entitled to pension nor is he eligible for Ex Servicemen Contributory Health Scheme ( ) as he was commissioned as an Emergency Commission (EC) officer in 1963.
 
 "In our country, war veterans do not get any respect. Nobody pays attention to him -- neither the government nor society. Except paltry gratuity, I have not got anything from the government. Only recently, I have started getting Rs 3,000 as pension from the Maharashtra government, the war veteran told TOI over phone from his native place in Ahmednagar district.
 
 As many as 24,000 such EC officers and   from the state, who fought wars in 1962, 65 and 71, have been demanding ECHS facilities from the Ministry of Defence (MoD) as they are not in a position to incur medical expenses at such a late stage in their life.
 
 Capt Shankar Joshi (retd) from Badlapur in Thane district from Electronics and Mechanical Engineers (EME) corps, who fought three wars in 1965 and 1971, told TOI, "We are not asking for any monetary help from the government. We only want medical facilities. Prior to the launch of ECHS scheme in 2003, we used to get medical facilities at the Military Hospital (MH), which were later discontinued," he urged.
 
 After receiving a deluge of complaints from the war veterans, Adjutant General's Branch of Integrated Headquarter of Ministry of Defence (MoD) issued a notification titled "ECHS facilities to veterans of 62-65-71 wars" to all   departments in the country in August 2015, instructing them to send the names, designations and strength of such personnel.
 
 A copy of the notification is with TOI.
 
 Most of these veterans also took part in the 1965 war with Pakistan. Some were even recalled during the 1971 war. As the strength of Army stabilised, these peers were released from service with remarks ‘Services No Longer Required’, the notification reads.
 
 “At the time of release, they were given only ‘gratuity’ based on number of years served in the Army but were not provided any service pension,” the notification added.
 
 The notification further assured, “As welfare measure, it is proposed to take up a case with MoD to provide these veterans ECHS benefits, as a one-time measure,”
 
 When TOI contacted ECHS section of the MoD in New Delhi, a senior army officer, who did not wish to divulge his identity, said, "There is no progress on ECHS as yet. At this juncture, I cannot comment whether the veterans will get the scheme's benefits or not." he clarified.
 
 Section of the veterans from Ahmednagar handed their memorandum to local MP Dilip Gandhi recently requesting him to pursue the matter with the government.
 
 The former Minister of State, Ministry of Shipping, Gandhi told TOI, "On the basis of the veterans' demand, I have placed the matter with the MoD. I will pursue this matter with Defence minister Manohar Parrikar in the coming days. These veterans should get the medical facilities at the least."
 
 Box
 
 Facts of ECHS 
 
 ECHS was launched with effect from April 1, 2003.
 
 The scheme aims to provide allopathic medicare facilities to veterans and their dependents through a network of ECHS polyclinics, service medical facilities and civil empanelled / government hospitals spread across the country.
 
 The scheme has been structured to ensure cashless transactions, as far as possible, for the patients and is financed by the Government of India.
 
 
