MUMBAI:   on Sunday said school   here should take the initiative in maintaining details of every van or   daily: Its timings, route and number of students being ferried. The   Owners’ Association (SBOA) has been opposing the plying of school vans and minibuses in the city and have threatened a strike from August 1. 

 A senior official said, “Many vans have permits to ply as school vehicles and we check them for safety guidelines during fitness inspections annually. They are plying legally and SBOA should not have any objection. But several schools do not enter into a common standard agreement with these vans and other smaller vehicles. The schools only have agreements with bus operators.”
 
 In such cases, officials insist that principals should form a transport committee which can keep records of vehicles other than school buses. “The committee should know how many students have opted for smaller vehicles, such as vans or minibuses, and keep track of their routes and timing,” said a deputy  , adding that the committee should decide where the vehicles will be parked so that students can alight or board them easily. Officials said smaller vehicles ferrying children were significant as they could reach every nook and corner of Mumbai. 
 
 Anil Garg of SBOA said the RTO should not grant permits to small vans that ferry children as they are a threat to safety. The association has threatened to take over 8,000 buses off the road from August 1 to protest against illegal vans.
 
 School managements said they only tie up with contractors which offer services following safety norms. “We have over a thousand students in the school and cannot risk the safety of a single child. We have been requesting parents to join the bus service but many opt for private transport as it is cheaper and goes to the doorstep. When parents opt for such arrangements, the school cannot be held responsible in case of an untoward incident,” said Rohan Bhat, trustee, Children’s Academy Group of Schools.
 
 The Bombay high court recently took cognisance of illegal vehicles ferrying children. An HC bench had directed state departments to redress grievances raised and to “take proper care to stop such vehicles which do not come within common standard agreement guidelines”. Every private vehicle/BEST/bus operator will have to sign an agreement with the school as per the court directive.
 
 
