HYDERABAD: After focussing on  , banks are gearing up to   and cyber   from Institute for Development and Research in   (IDRBT) will guide them in the fight. 

 Reserve Bank of India's city-based research wing IDRBT will conduct a four-day workshop this month on empowering bank staff on the process of gathering and handling digital evidence in accordance with legal framework in investigations and trial of cyber crimes. 
 
 The institute had conducted a similar workshop last year, but the current programme assumes significance in the wake of increased digital transactions post demonetisation. 
 
 Banks have been asked to depute at least two officials with information technology (IT) background to attend the workshop. 
 
 The central bank has reportedly asked banks to report cyber security incidents within 2-6 hours. "Recently, we were called to Mumbai. RBI officials told us to focus on cyber security, strengthen internal systems and educate the public," S Rangachari, assistant general manager with State Bank of India, said. 
 
 The Union government has already set up Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT) for cyber attacks in the financial sector. On its part, the RBI has created a specialised cell (C-SITE) within its supervision department to conduct detailed examination of banks' cyber security preparedness, identify gaps and monitor the progress of remedial measures. 
 
 However, experts said banks have a long way to go on this aspect. Despite the cyber security framework issued by RBI, banks' cyber crisis management plans have not been up to the mark so far. 
 
 With an increase in digital transactions and lack of consumer awareness in handling confidential processes, one can expect fraudsters to have a field day. 
 
 "This can be addressed with an effective and dynamic regulatory mechanism to cope with increasing digital transactions by consumers," said Dr V C Vivekanandan, director, National Academy of Legal Studies and Research (NALSAR), proximate education.
 
