January 27 saw 21 beagles being released from a research laboratory in Nande, after they were said to have “retired from research”. Entrusted to   Charitable Trust, that rescues and rehabilitates injured and sick animals, some of them are ready to find homes now. City bikers and artistes will unite today, to create awareness and facilitate future potential adoptions of these pooches.

  of   India, a collective that unites biker communities working for positive change, says, “We’ve asked all biker communities to meet at Baner at 10 am today, from where we’ll ride as a collective to the ResQ shelter near Chandni Chowk for the adoption meet.” 
 
 Meanwhile, city street artist   has been readying the shelter walls. “I’ve painted images of animals that are present at the shelter at present. The idea is to leave a mark and generate awareness about adopting rescue animals,” says Shirin, who will also facilitate and guide a community wall- painting session for the visitors today.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Considering that these animals need special care, the adoption applications received have gone through a rigorous selection process.  , president of ResQ, says, “Over 300 applications have been received till now. Each applicant went through three steps: a detailed questionnaire, a telephonic interview, and house visits, checks and video taking. 10 applicants have qualified till now.” While this weekend has seen a couple of adoptions, there are plans to hold subsequent adoption camps with prior notice.
 
 
 
 Post release, the beagles were faced with the challenge of dealing with a world beyond the lab. But Neha claims that the pooches have undergone quite a transformation since then. “They’ve been taught to walk on leashes, basic obedience and transitioned to different food; they’ve been socialised with other animals and children and taught to sleep on different surfaces,” says Neha. The beagles have been acclimatised to what they can anticipate once they are adopted.
 
 Actress Pooja Sawant was one of the many animal lovers who turned up for the event. She had a swell time with the beagles and the other animals at the shelter.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
