Thane: The Thane  , in collaboration with the legal  , has set up 10   to carry out fresh raids and inspections in   across the city. 

 The teams will target petrol pumps that have sourced the technical know-how from Prakash Nulkar arrested to facilitate tampering of fuel dispensing machines. 
 
 Unscrupulous proprietors and management of petrol pumps had purchased hi-tech gadgets from Nurulkar that would rig digital machines installed inside the fuel dispensing machines, which in turn would facilitate in numbers jumping while releasing lesser quantity of fuel.
 
 “We have got leads from Nulkar about tampering being done at some fuel stations in the state and we would be targeting only them. The accused used to supply chips to tamper the dispensing machines throughout the country due to which there used to be around 40ml to 700ml less fuel against five litres,” said deputy commissioner of police (crime) Abhishek Trimukhe.
 
 He added that Nulkar was among a handful of technicians employed with Midco, an electronic fuel dispensing machine manufacturer, who had acquired training in Japan and knew the functioning of these machines.
 
 “The firm had sent him to Japan for a three-month training programme where he learnt about the digital technology which was to be initiated here. Nulkar, along with three others were the only technicians in India working for Midco. They would go all around the country to repair faulty dispensing units,” added Trimukhe. 
 
 The police suspect that Nulkar had a wide network of contacts with petrol dealers as he was sent on official visits by his firm. 
 
 “We suspect that the technicians working with him at Midco were also involved in the scam as they were experts in the knowledge of dispensing units. Nulkar worked for the company for 18 years from 1987 to 2000 after which he quit his job. Post that he started managing petrol pumps in Kolhapur and Goa,” said a senior inspector from the Thane crime branch.
 
 As of now, the Thane police have made around 23 arrests and seized around 195 pulsar cards, 22 sensor cards, 71 control cards and 61 keypads in the raids that they have been conducting since almost a month.
 
