PATNA: RJD chief   on Sunday refuted the land scam allegations made by BJP functionary Sushil Kumar Modi (SuMo) but admitted that the plot on which the “biggest mall of Bihar” was being constructed belonged to his family.
 
  Addressing newsmen at his residence, Lalu said the BJP allegations were to tarnish the image of his family. “People who always cry ‘ghotala-ghotala’ are themselves scamsters,” he said, referring to SuMo.
  
  Lalu called the charges baseless that the 2 acre land near Saguna Mor was sold to Delight Marketing Company owned by RJD’s Rajya Sabha member and former Union minister   and his wife Sarla Gupta by Sujata Hotel Private Limited director Harsh Kochar in lieu of the two railway hotels sold out to the hotelier by Lalu as railway minister in 2006. The RJD chief said the railway hotels at Ranchi and Puri were leased out for 15 years, and not sold out to the Kochars as they were the ‘highest bidder’. But Lalu admitted that the land was later transferred to  , a company in which his wife and former Bihar CM Rabri Devi and their sons   and   Yadav are the only shareholders. While Tejashwi is the deputy CM in the Nitish Kumar government, Tej Pratap is the health, environment and forest minister in the state.
  
  “The shares of Delight Marketing Company were later transferred in the name of Rabri Devi, who later gifted some shares to her sons Tej Pratap Yadav and Tejashwi Prasad Yadav out of natural love and affection,” Lalu said.
  
  He also dismissed SuMo’s allegations that the soil dug out for the basement of the upcoming mall was sold to Patna zoo for Rs90 lakh without tenders because Tej Pratap is the minister of the department concerned. “No soil was sold to the Patna zoo by the Meridian Construction India Limited. The allegation is false and baseless,” Lalu claimed.
  
  Meridian Construction India Limited, which is owned by RJD’s Sursand (Sitamarhi) MLA Syed Abu Dojana, is constructing the mall on the plot owned by Lalu’s family, SuMo had alleged.
  
  “The said plot in Jalalpur village near Patna was sold out to the Delight Marketing Company by Kochar brothers way back in February 2005, almost 22 months before the leasing out of the two railways hotels in December 2006. Had the hotelier seen a dream almost 22 months in advance that he would turn out as the ‘highest bidder’ for the lease of railways hotels in December 2006?” said Lalu, who was assisted by Prem Gupta at the presser as an expert in company affairs.
  
  “All procedures regarding the tender and lease were followed by the IRCTC and neither Railway Ministry nor the railway minister had any role in the tendering process,” Lalu said. He said similar allegations regarding alleged “selling out of railways hotels” were levelled by some BJP functionaries in 2008 without any concrete proof. “Now, Sushil Modi has made himself a ‘laughing stock’ by raising the same old issue after nine years,” he said.
  
  Lalu also tried to divert the attention from the land deal and said the allegations were part of the bigger conspiracy hatched by the BJP to defame prominent opposition leaders in the country, including him. “They (BJP functionaries) are dividing society on communal lines and at the same time launching a campaign to do character assassination of all prominent opposition leaders like Mayawati and Akhilesh Yadav in UP, Arvind Kejriwal in Delhi, Mamata Bannerjee in West Bengal and Lalu in Bihar,” the RJD chief said.
