NAGPUR: After the fortnight-long extravaganza of the   ( ), it is time for some more serious   as several Indian shuttlers gear up for the Malaysia Grand Prix Gold tournament which gets underway at Sibu Indoor Stadium, Sarawak, Malaysia, on Tuesday.

  will spearhead the Indian challenge in the season’s opening international tournament. The former World No. 1 showed glimpses of her old form during the PBL while guiding Lucknow’s Awadhe Warriors to the semis. While Saina has slipped to 10th in the rankings because of a series of injuries, she has been seeded No. 1 and that is good enough motivation for her to go deep into the tournament.
 
 Saina will face a qualifier in the first round and then take on the winner of Indonesia’s Hanna Ramadini and Jia Min Yeo in the second round. The draw doesn’t look too threatening for Saina as most of the world’s top-ranked players including Olympic finalists Carolina Marin and PV Sindhu are not playing.
 
 Besides Saina, only Sri Krishna Priya Kudaravalli and C SAI Uttejitha Rao are in the fray in the women’s singles.
 
 The country will be well represented in the men’s draw despite the last-moment withdrawal of Parupalli Kashyap. The Commonwealth Games champion has once again been ruled out for a few months following his shoulder injury during the PBL final on Saturday.
 
 Sixth seed Ajay Jayaram, who has improved a lot in the last one year, will lock horns will a qualifier in the first round. Mumbai youngster Harsheel Dani will play local lad Zii Jia Lee, while Abhishek Yelegar will square off against 13th seed Zulfadli Zulkiffli.
 
 Joshi brothers — Pratul and Aditya who played the Bahrain Open final a couple of months ago — B SAI Praneeth, C Rahul Yadav, Siril Verma and Hemanth Gowda will be the other Indians in the men’s singles.
 
 Several Indian pairs will vie for top honours in three doubles categories. Teenage men’s doubles pair of   and   and newly formed women’s doubles duo of Ashwini Ponnappa and Sikki Reddy are the teams to watch out for.
 
 
