Ludhiana: Kisan Mela, celebrating its golden jubilee, concluded on high note at Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) on Saturday. The mela saw enthusiastic participation of farmers from across Punjab and adjoining states.

 Dr R K Gupta, director, Central Institute of Post-Harvest Engineering and Technology (CIPHET), said, “Farmers should adopt subsidiary occupations along with farming for economic sustainability. They should also think about profit by focusing more on marketing of the produce.”
 
 Dr Baldev Singh Dhillon, vice-chancellor, PAU, called upon the farmers to lay thrust on profit by maintaining farm records, use fertilizers on soil test basis, spray as per need and use farm inputs judiciously.
 
 Expressing concern over paddy straw burning, Dr Dhillon said eight agencies were working to check stubble burning, resulting in pollution and health hazards. He appealed to farmers to see demonstrations of different methods to manage straw.
 
 The university has been instrumental in establishing 292 agro-processing centres in Punjab, he disclosed, while suggesting the farmers to adopt processing for additional income.
 
 Dr Navtej Singh Bains, director of research, said wheat varieties –– Unnat PBW 550 and Unnat PBW 343 –– have been revived with biotechnological approaches. The wheat variety PBW 1 Zn has higher zinc content and is a first biofortified variety, he added.
 
 Dr Bains also highlighted newly developed paddy straw management machinery and various production-protection technologies.
 
 Dr Ashok Kumar, director of extension education, urged the farmers to discuss their farm issues with the experts and seek technical guidance for the same.
 
 H S Bajwa, member, board of management, PAU, and a progressive farmer from Haryana, shared his experience of being a successful mushroom grower as well as supplier. He lauded rice breeders of PAU for developing PR 126 variety which has shown outstanding results in fields.
 
 Box: PAU message on cutting lavish expenses
 
 The theme ‘cut the expenses on social functions’ of Kisan Mela turned out to be the crowd puller, with thousands of enthusiastic farmers queued up for signing the ‘Social Expenses Cutting Pledge’.
 
 More than 6,000 farmers took a pledge by signing the banners put in front of the College of Agriculture. They promised to spread the message in their villages too.
 
 A farmer Jaswinder Singh sharing his experience said that, “I took a loan of Rs 50 lakh for my daughter’s marriage and a car. And now I am paying Rs 20,000 interest on a monthly basis. PAU is helping beyond the agricultural issues. Such socio-economic factors also affect the agricultural sector.”
 
 The department of agricultural journalism, languages and culture, has brought out a book on the mela theme, which was released by the Finance Minister of Punjab, Manpreet Singh Badal during the inaugural function. The 72 page book contains 24 write ups on various aspects of making wedding ceremonies simple and less expensive like sending invitation cards by WhatsApp, shunning costly bridal beauty parlour expenses, exchange of expensive gifts, doing away with extravagant decorations and DJ etc. It also cautions the farmers to remain vigilant about the fashion of destination weddings. The book is full of slogans and informative fillers.
 
 Dr Sarabjeet Singh, principal investigator of the National Agricultural Science Fund Project on Preventing Farmer Suicides, along with co-principal investigator Dr Vandana Kanwar of human development department also carried out a survey on more than 1,000 farmers regarding the theme which includes a reality check on the expenses.
 
 Dr Harmeet Singh, NSS programme coordinator, also pasted ‘theme stickers’ on all university vehicles as well as vehicles of the visiting farmers.
 
 Winners get prizes
 
 The winners of crop produce, home science and farm machinery competitions were given away certificates and prizes on the concluding day of the 50th Kisan Mela at Punjab Agricultural University (PAU)
 
 Jasvir Singh from Sangrur; Satvir Singh, Bathinda; Raghu Raj Singh, Sangrur; Amarjit Singh, Faridkot; Manmohan Singh, Mansa; Karanbir Kaur, Sangrur; Navjivan Singh Nawanshahr; Kapil Behl Gurdaspur; Kushdeep Singh Ludhiana; Karamjit Singh Amritsar; and Shyam Singh from Malerkotla bagged first prizes for brinjal, ram tori, halwa kaddu, ghiya kaddu, okra, bitter gourd, chilli, chickpea, garlic, cucumber and onion, respectively. Besides, Balvir Singh, Fatehgarh Sahib; Anmolpreet Singh, Kapurthala; Satnam Singh, Faridkot; Ravi Dhingra, Fazilka; Amitoj Singh, Kapurthala; and Yuvraj Singh, Fazilka won first prizes for papaya, lemon, guava, grape fruit, malta and sweet lime, respectively. In addition, Balwinder Singh, Sangrur; and Gurtej Singh, Sangrur got first prizes in marigold and gerbera, respectively.
 
 Amanpreet Singh, Sangrur; Harvinder Singh, Sangrur; Rajpal Singh (Fazilka); and Ravikant (Fazilka) were awarded first prizes for maize, sugarcane, groundnut and cotton, respectively.
 
 Blood donation camp
 
 The social workers association, Punjab and National Service Scheme Unit of PAU, jointly organized 21st blood donation-cum-awareness camp. A total of 278 units of blood were collected in both days. NSS volunteers and members of the association made farmers aware about blood donation and its health benefits.
 
 Pashu Palan Mela 
 
 Ludhiana: Pashu Palan Mela of Guru Angad Dev Veterinary & Animal Sciences University concluded on Saturday . 
 
 Dr A S Nanda, vice-chancellor, Gadvasu, said, “The university is promoting livestock with its extension activities.” 
 
 Dr Harish Kumar Verma, Director of Extension Education said that some of our departments are providing services for rearing livestock where as others are in the field of value addition of livestock products. These professions help them to earn a handsome income.
 
 Department of Livestock Products and Technology displayed about 34 value added products of different types of meat and eggs. College of fisheries displayed 14 value added products of fish meat. There was great response to these stalls.
 
 
