PANAJI: For the 23 Goan players eyeing a place in the   ( ), the domestic player draft in Mumbai on Sunday would mean different thing to different players.
 There will be some who will hope to catch the eye after being out in the cold for a while, either due to injuries, or drop in form. Players like Francis Fernandes, Augustin Fernandes and Godwin Franco have been pegged back by injuries and they will hope that a season out of sight won’t necessarily mean out of mind.
  
 Some, like former India defender Denzil Franco and midfielder Anthony D’Souza, will hope they get a chance to prove that they can still match the best in business. Denzil had a season to forget with   and will now be eager to prove himself – should be get picked – while Anthony, injured badly during a national camp, has shown signs that he is back on track during his short spells with Dempo and Churchill Brothers last season.
  
 For some, this provides an opportunity to make the top grade after some impressive performances in the lower leagues. Mohammad Ali would be a perfect example. The young Dempo SC defender was in impressive form for his side in the local league and later with Neroca FC in the Second Division. He will hope, if not anyone, at least FC Goa take note.
  
 Then there are those players who will shudder at the prospect of missing out on a chance to represent FC Goa this season.  , for example, has been with the Goan franchise since inception in 2014 and has been the darling of the Goan crowd, alongside his friend   Rao Desai.
  
 FC Goa have always maintained they want the star midfielder; he was among the five names that the franchise submitted for retention before finalising the likes of Mandar and goalkeeper Laxmikant Kattimani. But whether he remains their first choice remains to be seen.
  
 “Because of the fans, everyone is looking forward to see Romeo as the first pick. For the last three years, we have been playing together for FC Goa and earlier with Dempo too. We have good combination. They should get him,” said Mandar.
  
 It’s no surprise that from among the 23 players, almost everyone wants to play for FC Goa.
  
 “In Goa, everyone wants to play for FC Goa. The preference for the local boys would be FC Goa,” emphasised Mandar. However, with just 13 domestic slots available, not all can be accommodated.
  
 “Our preference, of course, is for local players but we need to have a strong team as well. We have listed our preferences; Goans feature prominently, although given the dynamics of a draft, you never know what you will end up with,” said a FC Goa official.
  Fingers crossed!
