AHMEDABAD: The   and   will soon begin the first ever joint survey to ascertain the exact population of dugongs, a medium sized marine mammal popularly known as “sea cow”. The   is in the “vulnerable” category of the IUCN red list, and is a Schedule-I animal.

 Sources in the forest department said the survey will be is a part of the central government’s species recovery programme and will focus on location, habitat and migration patterns.
 
 The Wildlife Institute of India, which has been given responsibility for making a road map to revive various species, included the dugong, will carry out an aerial survey, a boat survey and scuba diving or snorkelling surveys of sea grass meadows. The study will also mark the locations of dugongs.
 
 Officials said this is the first time that WII and the forest department will undertake a joint survey. 
 
 In 2011, Gujarat   (GEER) Foundation had found trails of dugongs in the  , at Pirotan island and even at Bet Dwarka. 
 
 The 2011 study, sponsored by the Union ministry of environment and forests (MoEF), estimated that there were about 250 dugongs on the coast on India – the biggest population being in the Gulf of Mannar on the southern coast, followed by the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Palk Bay and the Gulf of Kutch.
 
 Officials said the study was completed in 2011 and nothing much has been done since. The fresh survey will reveal the exact number and their locations. The 2011 report mentioned some 13 direct sightings of dugongs in the Gulf of Kutch.
 
 The herbivorous marine mammal is usually found in calm, sheltered, nutrient-rich waters less than five metres deep, generally in bays, shallow islands and reef areas that are protected against strong winds and heavy seas which contain extensive sea grass beds, say forest department officials. These conditions make the Gulf of Mannar, Palk Bay, Gulf of Kutch and Andaman and Nicobar Islands ideal for dugongs. 
 
 The red list of the IUCN states: “There is also anecdotal evidence that the occupancy of the dugong has declined in many parts of its range, especially along the coasts of East Africa and India.”
 
