Varanasi: The district administration has made all arrangements to conduct UP Borad examinations commencing from Thursday.

 District magistrate Yogeshwar Ram Mishra convened a meeting with concerned officials wherein directives to prevent mass copying in ensuing examinations were issued. “We have made all arrangements to conduct examinations free from mass copying. Both the internal and external flying squads have been asked to visit exam centres in every 5-10 minutes to check any unfair practices and ensure smooth conduct of exams. Moreover, I will personally visit 10-14 centres which have a record of mass copying on days of crucial examinations,” he told TOI.
 
 According to Mishra, around six flying squads comprising four members and two cops each and static magistrates will be deployed to conduct free and fair exams in the district. Around 165 examinations centres have been divided into seven zones and 23 sectors. The centres will be monitored by sector magistrates while zonal magistrates will keep an eye at zonal level, he said.
 
 The centres which have been identified as centres with a track record of cheating in the past include Gandhi Inter College in Gaurakala, Khandeshwari Baba Inter College in Chandpur, Jai Kisan Inter College in Sarauni, Bharat Sewak Samaj College, Anarkali Balika Inter College Sakalpur, Gram Vidyapith Inter College Gadkhara, SB Inter College Bunchi, AO Muslim Inter College in Lallapur, Intermediate College Veerapatti, Harishchandra College Maidagin, Ghanpatti Inter College in Lakhraon, Lal Bahadur College in Parmanandpur, Sita Memorial Inter College in Vanasthali and Premprakash Inter College in Deyipur.
 
 Over 1.25 lakh students of class X and XII students will appear on the first day of the board exams to be conducted by the Uttar Pradesh Madhyamik Shiksha Parishad (UPMSP) in the district on Thursday. According to the district inspector of school (DIOS), OP Rai, over 67,000 students of high school and over 58,500 of intermediate have enrolled for the examinations to be conducted in two meetings.
 
 
