THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Poet B Sugathakumari on Tuesday criticised the practice of imparting digital education in schools right from the primary level. “With the digital system, one might get information with one touch, but the touch will never provide for one’s imagination and creativity which are very vital elements in one’s life,” she said.

 “Our youth does not have any sort of a doting relationship with our mother tongue and literature. The schools are all turning digital and the little fingers will soon forget the happiness and excitement of getting the curves and bends right in writing the Malayalam word ‘Shree’ using pencil on paper”, she said after presenting the ‘Bhashakkoru Dollar’ award to Sandhya I S, at Press Club in Thiruvananthapuram on Tuesday. 
 
 Sandhya I S, who is currently working as a guest lecturer at Fatima Mata National College in Kollam, received Rs 50,000 cash prize and citation instituted by FOKANA (  in North America) to promote research in Malayalam. Sandhya’s   ‘Elements of folklore in Malayalam novels with special preference to works of S K Pottekatt, Vaikom Muhammad Basheer and Kovilan’ was selected the best among the thesis awarded by   from December 2014 to December 2015. The thesis was chosen by a panel of judges including Naduvattom Gopalakrishnan, VS Sharma and Padma Rao.
 
 Also, the book ‘Pusthakavum Kerala Samskaara Parinaamavum’ was released at the event. Pro vice-chancellor of Kerala University N Veeramanikandan handed over the first copy to  , who is the chairman of FOKANA. ‘Pusthakavum Kerala Samskaara Parinaamavum’ by Sreekumar A G was made into a book soon after it was selected as the best research thesis in the year 2014.
 
 Professor M S Suchitra, who was the guide for Sandhya, was also felicitated with a citation at the event.
 
 “I had completed the thesis after 7 years of research on folklore elements in the works of these writers. I felt that writer Kovilan had intentionally employed elements of folklore to flaunt the culture and beauty of his native place Kandanissery. Folklore was used in the works of Basheer and Pottekatt to give a fullness of expression while portraying the village-based characters and their dialogues,” said Sandhya.
 
