MUMBAI: “The October 2 deadline for   stays in place but in case of bulk generators who are unable to treat their garbage, they will have to approach   and provide verifiable and plausible reasons on why they are unable to do so,“ said   Ajoy Mehta on Monday.

 He added that if the reason was justifiable, such generators would get an extension not exceeding three months to comply with  . The concession was in response to pleas by councillors from across the city , who have received representations from their constituents seeking clarity and support on disposal of waste. As the rule stands, beginning October 2, BMC will not pick up wet waste from any building generating over 100 kg garbage a day or is spread over 20,000 sq metres. Dry waste will continue to be picked up from such addresses.
 
 Opposition leader in the BMC, Congress corporator Ra vi Raja, said regardless of the rule, it was the BMC's duty to dispose of waste and they cannot be turning their back on it. “If the BMC refuses to pick up the wet waste it may go on piling up and will result in serious health issues for residents.Already the health of people in Mumbai is deteriorating, this will only worsen it,” said Raja, adding that BMC levies taxes on citizens to pick up their waste and therefore it is binding on them to do so. 
 
 BJP's party leader in the BMC also came out opposing the move. “As public representatives, we are being questioned but unfortunately we were not in the loop,” said Manoj Kotak. He added that BMC's claim that waste generated daily in Mumbai has reduced 20% in the last four years was hard to digest. BMC has claimed that municipal waste is down to 7,700 tonnes per day from 9,400 tonnes per day in 2013. Samajwadi Party leader in BMC Rais Shaikh said the BMC should have “informed us about the decision so that we could give suggestions” instead of unilaterally issuing notices to housing societies which are bulk generators.
 
 Shiv Sena leader in the BMC Yashwant Jadhav said the party felt slighted that neither it nor the mayor Vishwanath Mahadeshwar, who is from the Sena, had been informed of the move.
 
