BENGALURU: Although Suryanagar police keep all seized vehicles in an open ground next to the station, a white Fortuner SUV was parked in the station, with a constable keeping an eye on it on Saturday. The SUV, with a sticker of   and shattered windowpanes, is among the prime evidence in the shooting on   Road on Friday.

 Hamsa, 48, the woman who, under the influence of alcohol, shot her husband Sai Ram, 52, thrice and chased him down in that SUV when he tried to escape in a public bus, is now sober. Police have a clear picture of what happened. “Her interrogation has revealed that she was carrying the weapon. She claims she chased the bus not to attack him again, but to take him to a hospital,“ said the station house officer.
 
 It has been 12 long hours for this officer and his men. The couple has been mar ried for 26 years and the relationship was not going well. The reason for the fight was not just one thing, but the trigger was a discussion about their daughter,“ he said. On Friday morning, Sai Ram and   had been to Hosur for a banking errand. Around 5pm, they entered Karnataka and before moving towards their house in HSR Layout, they stopped at a bar and restaurant.
 
 The bill from  , which shows the purchase of two beers, three pegs of whiskey and sundry food, was among the evidence collected. “She said she had a beer and her husband had whiskey. Problems began during the drive home,“ said the officer. The couple fell in love and got married. Sai Ram is from Andhra Pradesh and Hamsa from Bengaluru. They had several business, including security, housekeeping and had invested in a college. Over the past five years, their business incurred losses, leading to problems between them.
 
 The trigger for the assault is said to be an argument over their 20-year-old daughter's marriage. On Friday, a prospective groom and his parents were to meet the family .But Sai Ram was reportedly against the alliance.“A lady shot her husband and the crime scene is spread over the jurisdiction of city and rural police stations. However, considering the crime scene, the case is being investigated by Suryanagar police,“ said Seemant Kumar Singh, IGP (central range).
 
