HYDERABAD: A second-year engineering student Malavath Naresh has this to say about his younger sister Poorna: "She is a girl with guts and does not know what fear is. She remains stoic if she comes across wild animals like a leopard, bears or foxes." 

 A group of tribal people from remote Pakala village in Srikonda mandal of Nizamabad district arrived at a five-star hotel in the city on Friday. Among them was an unassuming Malavath Lakshmi. Her 16-year-old daughter is literally climbing greater heights. This is what brought them to the city. "I did fear for my daughter's life," Lakshmi told TOI. 
 
 Poorna, who loved playing hide-and-seek with friends in the village, sought out her calling. It was  . On May 25, 2014 at 6.30 am,the then 13-year-old scaled the peak. As she placed the Indian Tricolour on the world's tallest mountain, she knew she had achieved.
 
 A 9th standard student of Telangana Social Welfare Residential   Society's school at Tadwai, Nizamabad, Poorna had scaled the Everest along with Sadhanapalli Anand Kumar, another student from Khammam district.
 
 "We had to go to a neighbouring village even to get chicken. And we still have to go into the forest to get dried sticks to cook food," Poorna told TOI. 
 
 On March 25, she will go to Delhi. It's going to be a big day. At  , along with President  , she will watch a film titled "Poorna" based on her life and accomplishments. 
 
 The movie will release in theatres on March 31 and across the world on the web.
 
 Poorna is happy about what's happening in her life, but she has not forgotten her humble roots. She recalls how she used to play as a child in her village. "Donga-police", or hide-and-seek, was her favorite game. "No one could catch me. That's how fast I could run. I could never be caught," she recalled. That used to leave her friends frustrated. Instead of playing donga (thief) who would have to run not to be caught by the police, she would offer to be the 'police'. "That way, my friends could get to run. But I would outrun them and catch me," she recalled, laughing. 
 
 Now, Poorna hopes to turn her childhood role of being a cop, to reality. She wants to become an IPS officer. "It may not be easy. But I can achieve it," she said. 
 
