CHANDIGARH: A Samalkha businessman, who has been duped of Rs 1.25 crore by two locals and an  , has alleged delayed investigation and sought action against the police team and further investigation into the case by the   (ED).

 Complainant Surender Arya has written to Union finance minister   and Haryana chief minister   for recommending investigation by DGP K P Singh for action against errant cops, alleging they were favouring the accused.
 
 According to information, the incident dates back to January 2015 when Surender had come in contact with Raman Sharma and his father Ashok Sharma. The father-son duo pursued him to expand their business by purchasing machines for compressing and recycling of waste through a firm in Dubai.
 
 The Dubai-based firm was owned by Raman's father-inlaw Surender Singla. According to the complaint, as the deal finalized Raman and Ashok had transferred an amount of Rs1.25 crore to Singla's firm between January and March 2015.
 
 Surender alleged that contrary to the claims of brand-new machines, Raman and Ashok got him refurbished machines.“During verification from various sources, we came to know that the actual cost of the machines was not more than Rs 20 lakh. We came to know about this from another Samalkha resident who too had been cheated this way ,“ he said.
 
 Arya claimed that for one year, Ashok, his son Raman and Singla had avoided his requests for replacement of the machine or refund of the money . In June 2016, the three threatened him with dire consequences.
 
 “ A case was registered in October 2016. The investigating officer had been misleading us about the accused. On December 24, 2016 we came to know that the accused had availed anticipatory bail from the Punjab and Haryana high court,“ he said.
 
 When contacted, Samalkha deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Dalvir Singh denied the allegations of biased or delayed investigation. “The accused have already joined the investigation and the officials concerned are in the process of finalizing the charge sheet against them. We will look into the allegations by the complainant as well,“ he said.
 
