Mumbai: The   ( ) may not result in substantial savings for consumers on their medical bills with medicines falling under the 12% tax slab. But the   industry will gain with streamlining of compliance framework, supply chain savings and operational efficiency. At present, the effective rate of taxation on drugs is 11-12%, so “the impact will be neutral”, Hitesh Sharma, tax partner and leader life sciences,  , told TOI.

 With GST rates of 5% for a handful of identified life-saving drugs, and 12% for overall medicines, the announcement is on expected lines. Annaswamy Vaidheesh, VP, South Asia, and MD, GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals, said, “It would not lead to increase in prices of medicines.” Regarding certain life-saving drugs for different kinds of cancers, severe rheumatoid arthritis and epilepsy, imported at 0%, MNCs have sought a clarification on whether those would undergo a change in rate with GST implementation, an industry expert said.
 
 Though the government on Friday exempted healthcare services from GST, certain diagnostic and surgical equipment including operation tables, beds and dental chairs will attract a higher rate of 18%, which could inflate hospital bills for certain patients. 
 
 Coronary stents, coronary stent systems for use with cardiac catheters, artificial kidney, disposable sterilised dialyser or microbarrier of artificial kidney will be taxed at the lower slab of 5%, while spectacle lenses, glucometer and test strips are under 12% slab. All types of serological and immunological testing kits (important for in-vitro diagnostic testing) have been placed in the 12% slab, while hepatitis diagnostic tests have been placed in the 5% slab. 
 
 Though healthcare services have been exempted from GST, it remains to be seen whether the exemption is applicable to the entire range or just selected ones as the list of exempted services has not been published. “Prices for most medical devices will not increase for their clients (hospitals) in supply chain for those items at 12% or below. Patients will not get benefit of GST unless the MRP (on the pack) comes down,” said Rajiv Nath, forum coordinator of industry body  . 
 
 Medical devices have been grouped under different tax slabs. G S K Velu, chairman & MD at  , said, “The first cut looks a bit confusing for medical devices with different devices being put in zero, 5%, 12% and 18% categories. All medical devices including implantable devices, diagnostics equipment, and all other devices should be put under the same classification of 5% or 12% to provide a level-playing field, and avoid unnecessary confusion.”
 
 
