BENGALURU: The commissioner for   (CMRS) started inspecting the   between   and Yelachenahalli near Puttenahalli in south Bengaluru on Wednesday. It may continue for 2-3 days, before the CMRS issues a  

 The safety certificate will determine the date for the government to throw open the 42km network to citizens, which means the long-pending phase 1 of the Namma Metro project will get completed.The inspection began on Wednesday afternoon from Yelachenahalli near Puttenahalli in south Bengaluru which is the last station in the north-south line, extending to a length of about 11km. K A Manoharan, CMRS of South Western Railway zone, said the inspection is likely to be completed by May-end.
 
 He was already briefed about the route through a walk in these corridors on May 17.“It might take one day or a week for me to issue the certificate after inspection, and it is based on many parameters.I have to be convinced that the infrastructure is completely safe for citizens,“ he said.
 
 He also explained that speed of the trains for the operations will be reduced, though BMRC has designed and conducted speed tests of trains, running at 90 kmph.
 
 “There are a couple of safety reasons why the speed is reduced to a moderate of 50 kmph between two stations.One, the distance between two stations is less; second, there are curves where speed must be reduced. So we brought down the speed by 10% each based on these criteria and many more,“ Manoharan told TOI.
 
 Once the safety certificate is obtained, it would mean that people can crisscross the city easily using the Metro -right from Byappanahalli in the east to Mysuru Road in the west, Nagasandra in north to Yelachenahalli near Puttenahalli in the south. The direction can be changed by interchanging the lines at Kempegowda-Majestic station, which is the first underground interchange station that Bengaluru will have. The total 42-km network with 41 stations is likely to be commissioned by June. Already , 31km of lines between Byappanahalli and Mysuru Road and Nagasandra and Sampige Road are operational.The crucial interchange between the east-west and northsouth lines at Majestic will be opened for the public soon.
 
 The next round of inspection will commence from May 29 to May 31, which also includes underground section.
 
 BMRC is readying plans for the grand launch event. President Pranab Mukherjee has been invited as the chief guest. Tenders have been floated for food supply, including 5,000 packets of laddus, dry fruits and juices for VIPs; the bids are closing on May 30.
 
