RANCHI: With the World Health Organisation (WHO) launching a year-long global campaign on depression last week, two young neuro-psychiatrist - Siddharth   from Ranchi and Satyakant Trivedi from Bhopal -have join hands to launched a campaign through social media and online portals to drum up public opinion to ask states to introduce mental health as part of school curricula. 

 The move comes even as a   Survey 2015-16 report issued by the union ministry of health and family welfare and   and Neuro Sciences, Bengaluru, indicated that at least 11.1% of the state's population is suffering from various types of mental disorders, such as depression, anxiety and panic disorders, schizophrenia, substance abuse, addiction etc.
 
 "This is for the first time that the WHO has dedicated World Health Day - that falls on April 7 each year - to depression and mental illness. The WHO has also acknowledged that more than 300 million people are now living with depression, which has seen an increase of more than 18% between 2005 and 2015. To fillip to the efforts of the WHO we have decided to carry out mass awareness campaigns through social media to demand inclusion of mental illness as a part of the school curricula," Dr Siddharth Sinha, a city-based consultant neuro-psychiatrist, told TOI. 
 
 The city is witnessing growing disturbing incidents of youngsters choosing to end their lives, unable to cope with stress of competitive exams. "Many such precious lives could have been saved if only parents, children and the society were aware of mental illness and had sought medical interventions at the right time. It is time that all of us did something concrete to save precious lives," Sinha stressed. 
 
 Sinha added, "Both of us have different   accounts. Through FB we will run daily campaigns to shape public opinion to demand inclusion of mental illness as a part of school curricula. Students are being taught moral science, general knowledge, Sanskrit, regional languages in school. Why aren't there any discussion on mental illness and depression," he asked.
 
 The duo also plans to run regular campaigns requesting schools and teachers to ask children to write essays on mental illness, depression and anxiety.
 
 Talking to TOI from Bhopal, Dr Trivedi pointed out that a shift in the education policy was needed to change misconceptions on mental illness. 
 
