THANE: With barely a   for the election campaigning for the TMC polls to fall silent and a huge expanse of ward to cover, several netas in   are on an overdrive arranging   meets with socities and local mandals in a bid to reach out to maximum voters. The candidates are not bothered about the blazing sun and are sweating it out in the hot weather to make the most of the last few hours before the campaigning ends.

 The campaigning will have to end at 5pm on Sunday and with barely few hours at their disposal, several candidates were seen hurriedly making last minute trips down their wards to ensure they made their presence felt especially in the stretches that have been newly included in their panel this time. The netas despite the sweltering heat made it a point to walk down alleys and housing complexes on Saturday to catch up with last minute meets.
 
 Former mayor and Shiv Sena leader Ashok Vaity says he's spent a major part of Saturday meeting residents and says he has scheduled Sunday to maximise contacts with his prospective voters. “There is barely a day left to reach out and meet voters in my ward. It has been a hectic day for me today as I have spent the day on door to door campaigns as being a Saturday, majority residents would be available at home,” he said.
 
 Another aspirant from Mumbra was also seen trying to make his presence felt in the belt by visiting residential enclaves and trying to woo voters. Chief minister Devendra Fadnavis is also likely to attend a rally in the city on Sunday.
 
 Another aspirant was busy meeting residents from slums in a part of the city trying to garner their attention ahead of polls. In another part of the city activists were busy meeting candidates post the campaigning time at night trying to strategise their plans for the next few days. With the income tax department and police keeping an extra vigil on cash transactions, instances of influencing voters with cash and kind was visibly low this time.
 
 Resident activists also made a point to drill in importance of voting among the upper class enclaves of Gladys Lawares road on Saturday. A group from a local body of residents, RAGA was seen moving around the around 200 upper middle class societies carrying placards urgjng them to go out and vote on Tuesday.
 
 Meanwhile, a few enterprising sitting corporators have also come up with videos and memes highlighting their works in their respective wards to circulate till the last minute. 
 
 “Officials are keeping tabs on any enticements or lure of food and money offered to voters. Also cases where publicity is done beyond the stipulated time will also be dealt with seriously,” said an official from the election department.
 
 
