GANGTOK: With Sikkim being virtually choked due to Gorkhaland statehood agitation in Darjeeling and disruptions in Siliguri, Union home minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday called Sikkim CM   and assured the Centre’s assistance to save people of the state from any misery due to the blockade.

 Days after Chamling rued the lack of Centre’s intervention, Singh told him that the Centre will ensure the safety and security of Sikkim’s only lifeline NH-10 and ensure essential supplies to the landlocked state.
 
 Sikkim has been staring at an imminent crisis of essentials following the shutdown in Darjeeling and attack on Sikkim vehicles by anti-Gorkhaland elements in Siliguri. Truckers of the state have stopped ferrying essentials and vegetables fearing the threat in the plains.
 
 The Sikkim CM told Singh that Sikkim is facing an acute shortage of supplies specially essential commodities such as medicines, baby milk powder, vegetables and petrol/diesel due to closure of the national highway, the critical road link to Sikkim.
 
 The home minister asked Union home secretary Rajiv Mehrishi to coordinate with the   administration and ensure the safety, security and smooth traffic on NH-10. The Bengal government has been requested to ensure that the road link to Sikkim remains open.
 
 The last consignment of vegetables had last reached Gangtok on Thursday morning and there has been no supply of vegetables since then. “It has been three days that no vegetable trucks have come from Siliguri. The crisis could worsen if the strike continues,” a vegetable vendor said.
 
 Movement of goods carriers has been irregular along bandh hit NH-10 after some trucks were attacked by miscreants and even asked to unload Sikkim bound items in Siliguri.
 
 Stocks of essential commodities, including ration and packaged foods, are on the verge of depletion. There has been no supply of the items since the start of July and stockists said the supply could last for the next 3-4 days only. 
 
 The attack on Sikkim-bound vehicles came after Chamling announced his support to the Gorkhaland statehood movement while appealing the Centre for an early resolution of the unrest.
 
 The Sikkim CM sought the Centre’s attention on the Gorkhaland agitation and the blockade saying that the statehood movement has caused economic loss worth over Rs 60,000 crore to the hill state. He added that the state government would move the Supreme Court seeking compensation for the losses from the West Bengal government.
 
 Officials in Gangtok said they are in touch with the Bengal counterparts to have a meeting over the issue. Sikkim home secretary S C Gupta has written to his Bengal counterpart asking for a meeting to resolve the crisis. Sikkim has also started making preparations to file a writ petition against the Bengal government in the Supreme Court.
 
 
