MUMBAI:   suffers inexorably from   and  , say residents. Perched precariously on the city’s northern-most tip, it groans under a litany of urban woes as it prepares for the civic polls next month.

 Dahisar is a quilt of gaothans (tiny hamlets, mostly populated by Agris and Kolis), townships, bustling nagars, chawls, upscale LIC-IC colonies and multi-storeyed apartments. Marathis, Gujarathis, Christians, Agris, Muslims, north Indians and south Indians lend a cosmopolitan character to Dahisar.
 
 The nearly 4km-long Dahisar river continues to be the leitmotif of this once idyllic suburb, spinning stories of the bygone era. “As a child, I used to bathe in the river almost every day. The water was clean and sweet. Today, it has become a narrow stream of dirty filth,” said Yudhishthir Bhoir, a 70-something resident. “Many wealthy Parsi-Gujarati businessmen had set up their weekend homes in Dahisar during World War II,” he added.
 
 “As three-time corporator, I made several attempts to clean up the river. However, it’s a daunting task and needs a combined effort from the BMC and the state government,” said Congress corporator Sheetal Mhatre.
 
 Sheetal’s sister-in-law, also Sheetal Mhatre, a Shiv Sena corporator, said, “The key problem is that the entire sewage of the neighbourhood is pumped into the river. I had moved a notice of motion at the BMC meeting on the issue. The Maharashtra government has okayed Rs 150 crore for cleaning up the river, but much remains to be done.”
 
 Traffic problems are multiplying by the day, thanks to a maddingly busy toll plaza (Dahisar is the city’s entry point), a check naka and a hideous truck terminus. All add to the area’s pollution. “The main road is choc-a-bloc with heavy vehicular traffic. There is no planned move to ease the traffic snarls,” said Amit Tanawade, a banker. “The BMC is keen on pushing traffic out of the city bounds,” said Sena’s Mhatre.
 
 Tanawade spoke worriedly about the illegal slums and commercial shops that have mushroomed around Anand Nagar on a plot, he said, reserved in the development plan for a nana-nani park. “The entire stretch was spruced up when Prime Minister Narendra Modi came for the state assembly poll campaign in 2014. Once he returned to New Delhi, slums started to proliferate,” Tanawade said. Most unauthorized structures come up on weekends, when the BMC and courts are not working, said Parvati Mane, a vegetable vendor.
 
 Merciless slaughtering of mangroves is a major issue in Dahisar. Ganpat Patil Nagar has come up by wiping out mangroves, said local inhabitants. They describe Ganpat Patil Nagar, a conglomerate of unauthorized hutments on Link Road, as a “monumental fraud”.
 
 “Every rule in the book was brazenly flouted to make way for illegal slums. Most slum dwellers live in sub-human conditions,” said Archis Patil, a choreographer.
 
 For netas of Dahisar, Ganpat Patil Nagar, which boasts a population of more than 30,000 migrant labourers, is a safe vote bank. “All politicians and local municipal babus joined hands to perpetrate this crime on Dahisar,” said Patil.
 
 Sheetal Mhatre of the Congress wants the BMC to officially declare the nagar a slum. “This will enable slum dwellers to get their rightful share of civic amenities,” she said. The matter is now pending in court, it is learnt.
 
 A local BJP functionary accused the Congress-Sena of breaking all rules to swell the number of slums. “Congress-Sena played a key role in allowing slums in Ganpat Patil Nagar as most migrants are from UP-Bihar,” he said.
 
 “Well, it’s BJP’s turn now to covet the Hindi-speaking voters from Ganpat Patil Nagar,” retorted a Sena office bearer. 
 
 Former Mumbai mayor Shubha Raul is likely to be in the poll fray as Sena candidate. Ditto with Sheetal Mhatre, Abhishek Ghosalkar and Hansa Desai—all present Sena corporators. Much, though, depends on reservation of wards, said Vilas Potnis, in charge of the Sena’s Mumbai north unit. Sheetal Mhatre of Congress is set to contest from Ward number one while the BJP is hopeful of riding the Modi wave. 
 
 The BJP will have to choose a candidate to replace Manisha Chowdhary who has been elected to the state assembly as Dahisar MLA.
 
