NEW DELHI: People living in and around south Delhi’s   cleaned the four walls under   themselves on Sunday when they found their pleas to South Delhi Municipal Corporation had no result. 

 The walls, beautified last year by art that was the result of hours spent by the residents’ children, had been completely defaced over the past few months by posters of various politicians and candidates for the DUSU elections.
 
 The children had taken pride in their work and the wall art had been a subject of discussion among their friends at school. But the politicians, who used the walls for free advertisement, took away the beauty of their accomplishment. Soon, their paintings were not even clearly visible, so bold was the defacement. The bills and posters reduced the local children to tears.
 
 “I raised the issue of defacement of the city in the standing committee of South Corporation, including the issue of posters defacing the artwork by students. There is a huge staff crunch in the department and they did not show any promptness,” said Andrews Ganj councillor Abhishek Dutt.
 
 Nakul B, who participated in the cleaning exercise, said the locals decided to join hands to remove all the posters and make the walls beautiful again. “We held a couple of meetings about it and women and men volunteered,” Nakul said.
 
 It took the residents more than two and a half hours to remove all the posters and restore the walls painted on by the students. The artworks have been damaged, but still look pleasant. “I was afraid the artwork would be damaged (much worse) because people use too much glue while placing posters. The participants did it carefully and managed to salvage it,” said a participant.
 
 “I had lost hope of seeing the artwork again. It feels great now,” said Sarthak Sharma, a student. 
 
 The Delhi Defacement of Public Property Act of 2009 prohibits people from putting up illegal hoardings and posters. But a lack of manpower in the civic bodies makes enforcement difficult. 
 
 Inspired by Sunday’s restoration, people in Andrews Ganj have vowed to carry out the exercise every week. “With people participation, we will make our ward free of illegal posters,” said Dutt. 
 
 A South Corporation official said the crackdown on illegal outdoor publicity is a continuous process. “In the last one year we have lodged police complaints against 200 advertisers, including individuals. We have issued notices to 800 advertisers in the last one year and removed over 2,000 illegal outdoor advertisements, including wall wraps which are illegal,” the official said.
 
 
