HYDERABAD: The princely state of Hyderabad was famous in the British Empire for its fabulous collection of cars. The last two Nizams ­ Nizam VI Mir Mahbub Ali Khan and Nizam VII Mir Osman Ali Khan ­ had a royal penchant for automobiles. The titular Nizam VIII,   Bahadur, had inherited a large collection of cars, a couple of which survive today ­ the Yellow Rolls Royce and the Napier.

 Mukarram Jah was said to have inherited as many as 56 cars, but only four of them were in working condition when his grandfather Mir Osman Ali Khan passed away in February 1967. Mukarram Jah's interest in cars and other motorized vehicles is well documented. Automobiles are intricately connected with the royal Hyderabad of yore that even Hyderabad's first driving licence was in metal with Rolls Royce emblem engraved.
 
 The vehicles were lefthand driven.
 
 In fact, Hyderabad had the lion's share of Rolls Royce cars. Of the 166 cars imported between 1900 and 1950, the city got about three dozen Rolls Royce. Hyderabad was also one of the few places in the world to introduce public transport buses in the 1930s.
 
 Hyderabad-born freelance journalist and TV presenter   has come out with a pictorial book on the automobiles of the rulers of the erstwhile princely state. “Automobiles of the Nizams“ is perhaps the first book in the world exclusively dedicated to the automobiles of the Asaf Jah rulers. The cover of the book was unveiled in Hyderabad earlier this month coinciding with the golden jubilee of the coronation of Mukarram Jah as the Nizam of Hyderabad.
 
 Luqman is a vintage enthusiast and he has collected information about the Nizams' cars after travel ling across Europe and Asia. “The book contains never-before-seen photos and records of the glorious period. It will soon be available at leading book stores worldwide,“ Luqman told TOI. He said with the immeasurable wealth of the princely state came connoisseurship of the finest things, and automobiles were no exception. 
 
 “The book tracks significant cars from production lines to palatial palaces. It features bespoke cars designed and custom-built to quench their insatiable fetish for opulence, comfort, power and speed. Brands ranging from the royal Rolls-Royces to frugal Fords, from the noiseless Napier to the humble Humber provide us an insight into the glorious automotive heritage of Hyderabad,“ Luqman said.
 
 Extensive archival study, interviews and worldwide research has helped unearth hit her to unpublished records that reveal fascinating facts pertaining to the   (Royal Garage). In pursuit of authenticity and evidence the author has navigated all terrains, from interviewing veteran mechanics and car-scrappers in the bylanes of Hyderabad to tracing period photographs in antique shops of the old city, from researching in the dark and dusty government archives to attending motoring events in London. The book has over 50 brands and over 500 photographs.
 
