PATNA: Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC) president Ashok Choudhary on Friday said Prime Minister   never came out with a satisfactory reply to any of the demonetisation-related questions raised by Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi.

 Addressing his party men at the dharna staged against note ban at Gardanibagh here, Choudhary said Rahul wanted to know from the PM how many people deposited more than Rs50 lakh in the banks in the three months preceding the demonetisation on November 8. Rahul had also asked Modi to provide a list of such people so that the country could know about them, he said.
 
 “But the PM has so far neither revealed the number of such people nor issued the list of those who deposited Rs50 lakh in banks across the country,” the state Congress chief said.
 
 Choudhary, who is also the education and information technology minister in the government headed by Nitish Kumar, who has openly supported the PM on the note ban issue, further said Rahul had also sought to know from the PM as to how much black money were unearthed after 50 days of the demonetisation of old Rs1,000 and Rs500 notes.
 
 He said the Centre was so unprepared for the note ban that the   had to modify its rules pertaining to regulation of demonetisation 90 times in 50 days. 
 
 The dharna programme was jointly organized by the Patna rural district Congress and Patna Mahanagar Congress as part of the party’s nationwide call for sit-in programme at each district headquarters to protest the Modi government’s failures over the demonetisation issue. Similar dharna programmes were organized by the district Congress committees at their respective headquarters towns and cities across the state on Friday. 
 
 “Our party’s stir against the note ban will continue for the next three months. The members of Mahila Congress and other frontal organizations will stage dharna at the districts headquarters on January 9,” BPCC spokesperson H K Verma said.
 
 Other prominent leaders who addressed the dharna included animal and fish resources minister  , prohibition and excise minister Abdul Jalil Mastan, Bihar   president Amita Bhushan, its general secretary Vinita Jha, BPCC vice-president Brajesh Pandey and MLA Bhavna Jha.
 
