Mumbai:   is partnering with  , founded by former DSP   bankers Rajeev Gupta and Amol Jain, to acquire  , a non-banking finance company that focuses on lending to micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs). The combine has emerged as the front-runner to buy the  , with a loan book of Rs 2,400 crore (or $400 million), from the Hyderabad-based integrated financial services provider Karvy Group, people familiar with the matter said.

 Arpwood and Goldman Sachs are looking to ride on the fast growing   sector even as global investors are betting on India's NBFCs in anticipation of a lending boom in Asia's third largest economy. Karvy Finance has a network of 80 branches across 45 cities in the country and also dabbles in small commercial vehicle loans and gold loans, adding a consumer angle to the portfolio. 
 
 Investment bank MAPE Advisory has been running a sale process for Karvy Finance. The RBI’s permission is required to acquire 26% or more of the paid-up equity capital of an NBFC. When contacted,   declined to comment, while Goldman Sachs could not be reached for comments immediately. An emailed query to Karvy Group chairman C Parthasarathy went unanswered, though on phone he said no sale has been reached with anyone.
 
 Prolific dealmaker Rajeev Gupta led Arpwood's private equity arm focuses on mid-month buyout deals.
 
 Merger and acquisition (M&A) activity has ramped up in the NBFC sector, especially in segments that are either inaccessible or unattractive for traditional banks. MSMEs account for 45% of India’s manufacturing output and 40% of exports. Data by Frost & Sullivan showed that less than 10% of the smaller enterprises have access to financing from the banking system. 
 
 A recent Bain report on India’s private equity industry said that NBFC business models demand heavy infusions of capital, and investors were ready to deploy capital in strong-performing pure-play NBFCs, housing ﬁnance companies and microﬁnance institutions. Investments in Janalakshmi Financial, Edelweiss and Shriram Transport Finance were some of the large NBFC deals of 2016, the report said. Earlier this week, GIC of Singapore led a group of investors to acquire 25% stake in Capital First, an NBFC in which Warburg Pincus is the largest shareholder.
 
 
