AMRITSAR: Worried over burgeoning maintenance cost of the India’s tallest and heaviest national flag at Attari, the Amritsar Improvement Trust (AIT) is contemplating seeking donations from industrial houses or any individual or visitor to keep the flag hoisted on a 350 feet flagpole.

 Talking to TOI on Friday, AIT superintendent engineer (SE) Rajiv   said, “I have proposed to put up an electronic signboard at Attari giving credit to the person or the company that will bear a cost of the flag.” He said he was hopeful of getting handsome contribution through the system.
 
 Sekhri informed that AIT had also decided to reduce the size of flag from earlier 80x120 feet weighing over a 100kg costing around Rs 90,000 to 48x72 feet with a weight of 65kg that would cost Rs 65,000.
 
 AIT officials are of the view that even the new flag’s life would not be more than 10 days on an average. Sekhri explained that if a new flag would last for 10 days so they would require 36 flags in a year besides AIT had to employ three persons for maintenance of the flag at a salary of Rs 10,000 per month totaling around Rs 27 lakh a year or Rs 2.25 lakh per month.
 
 Poorly conceived project of installing the nation’s tallest national flag, which was inaugurated on March 5 by former local bodies minister   at Attari border, had brought much embarrassment after it had to be replaced consecutively for the fifth time on account of being torn due to heavy winds in less than a month.
 
 He said for now AIT had placed an order of three flags to Flag India which they were expecting to receive in a few days. Amritsar deputy commissioner Kamaldeep Singh Sangha, who is also chairman of AIT, informed that the experts were on the job and he would ensure that tallest flag’s display was done as per the flag code of India.
 
 BOX: 6th flag also comes down
 
 Much to the disappointment and embarrassment for visitors at the Attari international border, the sixth flag also came down after AIT employees failed to attach it to the 350-foot tall flagpole due to high winds and it fell on wires with a part of it touching the ground.
 
