NAGPUR: Suspense over whether schools can declare a holiday on polling day or not dragged on pretty much to the eleventh hour, with an official letter from the secondary   coming late Monday evening. While it was a given that Tuesday will be a holiday, schools found themselves helpless because of lack of “official word” from authorities. 

 A school principal said, “I couldn’t take a decision on holiday without a circular because if tomorrow they (education dept) change their mind I will be pulled up for acting unilaterally.” But to the relief of principals, secondary education department has now officially directed schools to remain closed on Tuesday on account of it being declared a public holiday. Satish Mendhe, education officer (secondary) said, “All schools located within city limits will have to remain shut.”  , education officer (primary), said, “Schools do not have a choice in this. It is mandatory for schools affiliated to all boards.”
 
 Trustee of a school and junior college said he anticipated the move and had declared holiday to be on the safe side. “If the letter comes to me at 5pm, how will I inform almost 2000 students that there is a holiday tomorrow? I knew that such a decision will come and hence I did not wait for the education department’s letter,” the trustee said. The delay in official letter, however, was not the education department’s fault. Sources in the education told TOI that the letter had to first come from the Returning Officer (RO) and they were able to get a hold of it only on Monday. 
 
 But that is not the only letter schools received on Monday.  , through the RO, shot of show cause notices to schools whose teachers failed to show up for poll duty. Few schools, however, were shocked as these teachers had already been assigned board exam duty. “How can the same teacher conduct practicals, internal exam, evaluate it, start preparations for board and still report for polling duty? In many schools 95% of the staff has been asked to report for poll duty, then who will do the remaining work?” said a school trustee whose staff received the show cause notice. Another teacher said, “This entire week is full of holidays and it will affect our academic preparations. The government cries hoarse when quality of education falls but makes not bones about forcing teachers to drop academic work for clerical jobs.”
 
