Blurb:

 Tough stand | Punjab personnel dept asks chief secy to send same panel of officers to UT, says MHA issued no contrary instruction
 
 Chandigarh: The Punjab government has taken exception to the UT Administration’s rejecting the panel of three promotee IAS officers it suggested for the post of managing director at Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Development Corporation ( ). The UT’s plea was that these officers were not direct recruit.
 
 It is learnt that the Punjab personnel department has moved the file to the chief secretary, taking a tough stand that the Chandigarh Administration cannot make classification among the IAS (Indian Administrative Service) officers. The personnel department insists that the same panel of officers be sent again to the UT.
 
 The tenure of present CITCO MD Kavita Singh, a Punjab-cadre IAS officer, will end on October 18. The Chandigarh Administration posts of finance secretary, special secretary finance, joint secretary finance, and CITCO MD are filled by the Punjab IAS officers deputed for three years.
 
 Earlier this month, the Chandigarh Administration had rejected Punjab’s panel of Malwinder Singh Jaggi, Jaswinder Kaur, and Daljit Singh Mangat, who were in Punjab Civil Services (PCS) initially before being nominated to the IAS cadre. However, taking serious note of Chandigarh Administration’s communiqué, the Punjab personnel department has put on the note that promotee and direct-recruit IAS officers enjoy parity in every respect, and when the promotes have been handling important assignments in their parent cadre, they were competent equally to take care of any UT department while on deputation. 
 
 Chandigarh’s reason for rejecting the panel was that the Union Ministry of Home affairs (MHA) wanted direct-recruit IAS officers to be given preference for the CITCO MD’s post. Countering this, a senior Punjab officer said: “Show us these guidelines. No such directions have ever been conveyed to the Punjab government.”
 
 In the past, the direct-recruit IAS officers had not shown any interest in moving to Chandigarh on deputation, say sources in the administration. Earlier, direct-recruit Punjab IAS officer Varun Roojam’s name was finalised for the post of joint secretary finance before he chose not to join on deputation. About two months ago, Punjab had then sent a panel of three IAS officers—promotee Bhupinder Singh and two officers nominated from the non-state civil services cadre, Karnesh Sharma and Parampal Kaur Sidhu—for the post. Sidhu is daughter-in-law of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader and former panchayat minister Sikandar Singh Maluka. The Chandigarh Administration is yet to take a final call on the panel for the post that’s vacant for more than a year.
 
 
