PATNA: Bihar’s ruling JD(U) on Sunday refused to defend ally RJD’s president   and his minister sons from BJP senior functionary Sushil Kumar Modi’s allegations that Lalu's family acquired land from his own party’s lawmakers as quid pro quo for the party’s ticket and ministerial berths.

 "We are not sitting here to defend any person. It is responsibility of the person against whom allegations have been levelled, to defend himself," JD(U) national general secretary and Rajya Sabha member RCP Singh told reporters at JD(U) office in Patna.
 
 Singh was replying a query as to why ruling JD(U) has left its ally RJD alone when the latter’s leadership was facing volley of allegations about land deals from the opposition BJP.
 
 Earlier on Saturday, BJP’s senior functionary Sushil Modi alleged that former union minister   had handed over valuable land and three-storied building to RJD chief Lalu Prasad's sons—Tej Pratap and Tejashwi- to become minister at the Centre during the UPA 1 rule. “Why the RJD’s senior members like Raghunath Jha, Kanti Singh and Premchand Gupta had to gift their valuable properties to Lalu Prasad's family? There is only one answer to it to get RJD’s ticket and become minister," Sushil Modi had said on Saturday.
 
 To a question on Modi’s frequent allegations against Lalu’s family, Singh said the act of levelling allegations and counter-allegations were not a new thing in politics. "Such phase of allegation and counter-allegation used to happen in politics," he said. 
 
 Singh, who was an Uttar Pradesh cadre IAS officer before joining politics and going to Rajya Sabha as JD(U) nominee, was responding to media persons query during a JD(U) event where one Shanti Singh, who claimed herself as the Hindustani Awam Morcha-Secular (HAM-S)’s women cell chief, joined the ruling party. The HAM(S) state vice president   later claimed that Shanti was not holding any post in his party.
 
 Talking on the issue of "benami" properties, Singh said the JD(U)’s stand on "benami" properties was very much clear. “We don’t bark, we believe in action," Singh, who was earlier principal secretary to Bihar CM Nitish Kumar, said.
 
 Replying to a question on dynasty politics in the RJD, Singh said that the JD(U) has, since its inception, been against the promotion of dynasty politics.
 
 Earlier while addressing a JD(U) event on Saturday, Singh had said that JD(U) is such a party where its chief doesn’t pick up CM from his family, but from among the party men. Singh was apparently referring to an event 2014 when Bihar CM Nitish Kumar resigned from the post and chose Jitan Ram Manjhi as his successor. 
 
