NAGPUR: Convicted   professor Gokarakonda Naga   and four others knocked the judiciary’s doors challenging   Sessions Court verdict that sentenced them to lifer on March 7.

 While the former, dubbed as “Maoists think tank” by the court, filed a separate criminal appeal, others including Mahesh Tirki, Hem Mishra, Prashant Rahi, Pandu Narote and Vijay Tirki, filed another appeal.
 
 Among them, only Vijay was awarded ten years of rigorous imprisonment, considering his limited role and his first attempt. Both appeals are filed through counsel Surendra Gadling last week and would come up for the hearing shortly.
 
 All six accused are convicted under Sections 13, 18, 20, 38 and 39 of Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) along with Section 120B of IPC for criminal conspiracy, for aiding and abetting Naxalite activities and waging war against nation.
 
 According to Gadling, there was no concrete evidence against all of them and entire prosecution’s case was based on circumstantial evidence on the data obtained through electronic evidence. Importantly, there were no eyewitnesses to their participation in any of the crime. He mentioned that there was no proper appreciation of their evidence and burden of proof was shifted on the accused persons instead of prosecution. He contended that whatever prosecution was claiming to have obtained from Saibaba, like memory chip and hard disk of his computer, was false and baseless. The accused prayed for setting aside the Gadchiroli court verdict.
 
 Principal district and session judge Suryakant Shinde, while pronouncing the judgment, had also named dreaded naxal Narmada Akka and Ramdar, as other accused in the crime and directed the Gadchiroli police to trace them. The court examined 23 witnesses that included panch witness and one approver.
 
 The Gadchiroli police formed their evidence on a memory chip received from Mishra after his arrest from Ballarshah Railway Station on August 22, 2013, along with Mahesh and Narote. Even incriminating data recovered from the hard disk of Saibaba, after his arrest clearly proved their role in the naxal activities. Rahi and Vijay were arrested on September 2, 2013, while Saibaba was held on May 9, 2014 from his home at Delhi.
 
 Terming them as members of banned outfits, CPI (Maoist) and its frontal organization — Revolutionary Democratic Front (RDF), the court held them responsible for violent activities in the backward district that led to huge loss of life and property from 2009. It added that the Gadchiroli’s condition is paralysed and no industrial and other developments are taking place due to fear of naxals and their violent activities. Subsequently, the government declared entire district as naxalite-hit on August 6, 2002.
 
 The court also declined to show any leniency to the wheelchair bound Saibaba on account of his disability stating that he is mentally fit and working as a think tank for banned political organization like CPI (Maoist) and RDF. He used to visit abroad for spreading Maoist ideology and recruit youths and used to communicate by pseudo name 'Prakash' through e-mails and letters for his ulterior motives.
 
