NEW DELHI: Obsession with
  in the capital when two teenagers were crushed under a train while posing between two railway tracks at Anand Vihar, east Delhi, on Saturday afternoon.

 The victims,  , 16, and Shubham, 14, along with five friends studying in the same tuition centre, had pooled in money and rented a DSLR camera for Rs 400 per day. Cops said they wanted to build a modelling portfolio.
 
 As per accounts of the other boys, the group had chosen a spot between two tracks to take selfies with an approaching train in the background. They were so engrossed in taking pictures when the train approached that they didn't notice another train coming from the opposite direction.
 
 While others stayed where they were, Yash and Shubham, in a reflex action, jumped onto the other track fearing they would be crushed between two trains. They instantly came under the second train and died, police said.
 
 Before the accident, Yash and Shubham had gone to a gaming parlour near Akshardham after tution classes, with Rohit Kumar, Tushar Yadav, Bhaveet Tomar, Rohit Singh and Aman Kumar.
 
 The boys also took selfies outside the temple, which Yash and Shubham did not find exciting enough, according to the other boys.
 
 Then the boys decided to go to the Anand Vihar railway lines to click “daring selfies” for their social media profiles. 
 
 “We thought that the idea was fascinating and so decided to go to the tracks,” one of the boys told police officers investigating the case. “We had seen many pictures clicked around railway tracks, and so we thought that we could get good ones if we go there,” he added.
 
 Yash’s grief stricken mother said that he was preparing for his board exams and spent most of the time at home. “He was a bright student and had an interest in photography. On Saturday morning, he clicked my pictures but deleted them when I insisted that he do so,” said Kamlesh, his mother.
 
 She said Yash left his phone at home before leaving for tuitions. “He had been going to these tuition classes for the past one year and studied Mathematics and Science there. I would often ask him to carry his phone along, but he refused,” said his mother. “Yash and my daughter, Akanksha, very often clicked pictures together. But Yash’s craze for clicking pictures was only limited to the home. Saturday was the first time when he went out with his friends to click pictures,” said Rajesh Kumar. Yash’s father.
 
 The Mathematics test ended at 2 pm. “The boys stayed back for a while and started discussing something. I was away and so couldn’t understand what they were talking about. But before they left, I told them about their upcoming Science test. They seemed to be in a rush,” said Deepak, their tuition teacher. 
 
 Talking about Yash and Shubham, he said that they were both very attentive and never clicked pictures while the class was going on.
 
 The boys told the cops that they went to the games parlour, where they stayed for around an hour. 
 
 “Preliminary investigations suggest this was an accident and any foul play has been ruled out. We have seized the camera and have also scanned the CCTV footage around the area, which shows the boys entering the railway premises," said Parvaiz Ahmed, DCP Railways.
 
