AMARAVATI: Chief minister N   dropped a bombshell late on Saturday by dropping IT and information & public relations minister Palle Raghunatha Reddy from the cabinet. Although Raghunatha Reddy has a clean image and is considered non-cont roversial, he is said to have lost his job after the chief minister took a tough decision to accommodate   from Kadapa. As widely predicted, housing minister  , mines, women and child welfare minister Peethala Sujatha, forest minister Boj jala Gopalakrishna Reddy and social welfare minister Ravela Kishore Babu were dropped from the cabinet by the chief minister.

 As expected, the chief minister's son Lokesh has been inducted into the cabinet along with 10 more new faces. In addition to Lokesh, the others who I were inducted into the AP cabinet in clude Kala Venkata Rao, RSVK Ranga Rao, Kothapalli Samuel Jawahar, Nakka Anand Babu, Somireddi Chandramohan Reddy, Amarantha Reddy, Adinarayana Reddy, Bhuma Akhilapriaya, Kaluva Srinivasulu and  . The new ministers will take oath on Sunday.
 
 Sources said that the chief minister had already secured resignation letters from the ministers being axed from the cabinet. The resignations would be forwarded to governor E S L Narasimhan for formal approval. Curiously, Kishore Babu denied submitting his resignation letter.
 
 Before deciding to drop five ministers, the CM held one-on-one mee tings with senior ministers including Yanamala Ramakrishnudu, K E Krishna Murthy, Acthannaidu, Devineni Umamaheswara Rao, Prathipati Pulla Rao, Narayana, Ayyanna Patrudu and Ganta Srinivas Rao late on Saturday night. Naidu summoned all the ministers available in the city to his residence to discuss the cabinet revamp.
 
 Bojjala Gopalakrishna Reddy, who met the CM in the afternoon, skipped the one-on-one session as he realised that his chances of continuing in the cabinet were remote. Naidu decided to sack both the Reddy ministers to accommodate new faces. According to reports that last came in, Chandramohan Reddy (Nellore), Akhilapriya (Kurnool) and Adinarayana Reddy (Kadapa) will fill the Reddy quota. The list of the new ministers was despatched to the   late in the night.
 
