A huge stock of beer of three popular brands of   has been found unfit for human consumption.
 
  The   has put a stop on the sale of the beer from these batches (see box) after mandatory tests found them to be containing contaminated water (but not toxic or poisonous) that was unfit for consumption.
  
  The beer brands in these 15 batches pertain to Knock Out Strong Beer, Foster Lager and Royal Challenge Strong.
  
  Contractors and excise department officials have been directed not to release beer from these batches to the retailers. The direction also says that if any stock from these batches has already been supplied from the depots of the  , necessary action should be taken to stop their retail sales.
  
  On the direction of the commissioner of excise department, the deputy commissioners of all the districts, including Bengaluru city, have issued the orders. As per the Bureau of Indian Standards ( ), a sample is drawn from each batch of beer before bottling and these are tested for the requirement of ethyl alcohol content and pH (numeric scale used to specify the acidity or basicity of an aqueous solution) that is specified. After bottling, three samples are drawn from each batch again for checking various requirements.
  
  The contamination was found in bottled beer. The lab report on the batches in question, as quoted by the department’s orders, says the bottled samples were procured on February 28, March 7 and March 10, and sent to the central lab for tests.
  
  The tests found the presence of ethyl alcohol in the normal limits, and no poisonous substances were found.
  
  The report of the lab states, “Presence of ethyl alcohol is detected in the above stated bottles and they are free from methyl alcohol. But in all above sample bottles (we) found hazy infusion and sedimented particles with settleable solids. Hence they are unfit for consumption.”
  
  As per BIS standards, beer is tested for contamination by poisonous substances. Floating matter or visible residues are also a strict no.
  
  Sources say that some of the beer from these 15 batches may have already reached retailers. This will become the first instance of beer being recalled after it has left the breweries.
  
  Officials of the excise department are, however, refusing to comment on the issue on record. But sources in the lab said they have submitted a report stating that some of the batches of beer tested, were was not fit for consumption.
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
  However, the whole issue could be because of wrong samples being tested, according to some sources in the department. The samples taken from the brewery may have been collected before it had undergone proper process like pasteurization. This could have given a wrong reading in the lab because it was raw beer sample. There are plans for testing new samples from the beer batches afresh.
  
 
 
 It is legally specified that “Beer shall be free from any ingredient that is injurious to health, chloral hydrate, ammonium chloride, pyridine diazepam, paraldehyde, and any added colouring matter, except caramel produced from sugar.”
 
