MADURAI: Jallikattu protesters including youngsters and women, who were huddled together on the roads of Tamukkam and Alanganallur, were surprised when the first drops of rain fell on them around 3.30am, Saturday. However, the downpour could not dampen the spirit of protest.

 In fact, the morning chill prompted them to start the protest earlier than the other days as many more turned up at the venues. Some of them took refuge   and nearby buildings for some time when it rained and returned to the spots when it stopped.
 
 The tech-savvy among them began to post messages in social media about the requirement for blankets and umbrellas. Soon, Good Samaritans turned up at the venues, carrying the necessary wares to keep away the cold. Some began distributing piping hot tea and coffee.
 
 Though the day remained cloudy with intermittent rainfall, the protests continued with many addressing the gathering. Supriya, a student, said that the protest had been a learning process for her. "I have learnt the importance of working in co-ordination and with others. As the only child of my parents, I think I have been selfish till now," she confessed candidly.
 
 "See, it has started raining already because of the constructive measures taken for conducting jallikattu. We had also conducted many homams in temples seeking the blessing of the Almighty for our cause," said Chitra Devi from Alanganallur. The protests intensified in Alanganallur after the promulgation of the ordinance for jallikattu in the evening.
 
 The crowds increased steadily throughout Saturday as it was a holiday for many, said Ezhilmaran, a government employee.
 
 K Sakthivel, another protester, said that they had toiled hard in the last four days, and that they did not want to give up after the temporary victory. "Many of the protesters here have sacrificed so much for the jallikattu cause. Those employed among us will incur salary cut as they have taken leave from work. Students protesting here will lose their attendance. If we give up now, all this would go waste," he told TOI.
 
 Many roads remained cut-off from normal traffic for the larger part of the day as the protesters blocked the roads using tree branches. Meanwhile, the protests continued in the southern districts including Tuticorin, Tirunelveli, Kanyakumari, Ramanathapuram, Sivaganga, Theni and Dindigul.
 
