Filmmaker  , who was this year’s National Film Award jury chairman, has come under attack since the announcement of the awards. 

 While the director did try to justify the decision to give the Best Actor award to   and a Special Jury Mention to Mohanlal, his answers recently weren’t as convincing – especially to those who believed   was a strong contender for his performance in  .
 
 Priyadarshan had recently said that Aamir was not considered as he didn’t show up for function when Taare Zameen Par won the Best Film in 2008. “So, why spoil it for some other actor who stood as good a chance of winning the award?” he had said. His comments didn’t go down well on with Aamir fans, with many calling the awards “biased”.
 
 The director now lashes out at the actor’s supporters, saying, “Last month, Aamir said in an interview that even if he was awarded Best Actor, he wouldn’t accept it. When Taare Zameen Par was given the National award in 2008, he never attended the ceremony and yet he went to the Oscars when Lagaan was only nominated. So, for him the President of India’s award is nothing compared to a Hollywood award. That’s his personal stand, I am not commenting on that further. But when someone says that he will not be accepting the award even before he gets it, that’s a slap on the face of the jury.”
 
 Another comment from the director that drew flak from all quarters was that Dangal won only a single award because it was based on real life. And yet films such as Airlift, Neerja and Sarabjit made it to the final list. The director says, “Yes, those films were in the final list. But one thing I noticed was that people who are criticising the awards have never seen the films that won the awards. Regional films from Marathi and Bengali cinema had some amazing content.”
 
 Even director A R Murugadoss, who had worked with Aamir in Ghajini, had recently blasted the jury and awards for being “biased”. Priyadarshan’s reaction to the comment is, “I don’t think he has seen any film that had won this year’s awards. How can he make such a comment then?”
 The director says that the jury’s decision is final. “No individual opinion has any validity over that. It’s not going to change the 
 verdict,” he says. 
 
 
