NAGPUR: Following central government’s directives to collect segregated garbage from June 5, the   will provide two dustbins each to citizens to segregate wet and dry waste. To implement the project successfully, NMC’s health department has prepared a proposal to purchase over 11 lakh garbage bins in two colours — green for wet waste and blue for dry — and distribute them among people. The proposal will be tabled before the general body meeting scheduled for April 20.

 The union urban development ministry has issued a notification and fixed rates for the dustbins. The government has given two options —either the NMC could approach the government for procuring the dustbins or the civic body could procure them on its own.
 
 The health department has prepared three options for implementation of the notification: The NMC provides 11 lakh dustbins to all 5.5 lakh households/shops, which will cost Rs13.64 crore; NMC will provide only one dustbin and ask the property owners to purchase another (it will cost Rs6.82 crore); NMC to provide free of cost dustbins in slums only, which will cost Rs4.94 crore.
 
 In the current system of collection and disposal of garbage, the municipal corporation sends garbage collecting vehicles every day to each locality. Citizens dispose of mixed garbage in the vehicles which is then transported in bigger vehicles to the Bhandewadi garbage dump yard. The municipal corporation has appointed private agencies to collect garbage from house to house.
 
 The garbage collecting vehicles have two separate compartments for wet and dry waste and are supposed to collect segregated garbage. But neither private agencies nor citizens segregate waste. The objective of having such special vehicles was lost as mixed garbage is being collected every day.
 
 Another important proposal of NMC’s project department preparing detailed project reports for constructing four market complexes-cum-shopping malls will come for discussion. All the complexes including Budhwar Bazaar (Sakkardara), Babulkheda (Rameshwari), Wathoda, Budhwar Bazaar (Keibagh, Mahal) and Quetta Colony, Sokhta Bhavan (Gandhibagh) and a multi-speciality hospital in Dharampeth will be constructed under build-operate-transfer basis.
 
 Other proposals 
 
 Appointment of either five or 15 members in the tree authority committee under Urban Tree Conservation Act 1975. 
 
 An agreement was signed between NMC and Maharashtra State Textile Corporation (MSTC) in which a 3-month permission was given to divide a plot into smaller plots. According to the agreement, a 66,201 sq m concrete road is to be made by   and it will then hand it over to NMC
 
 NMC had provided Govind Shrikant, a resident   in Mahal, a lease on a plot for 30 years. The plot of 38.15 sq m, has a premium of Rs12,33,298 and a 2.5 ground rate of Rs30,830 per year. The NMC gave permission on the agreement of paying the money for 30 years
 
 Nod to form a committee to prepare a report on suggestions and objections received on a plan for Hudkeshwar and Narsala development under Maharashtra Regional and Town Planning Act
 
 
