Hubballi: Though North Karnataka has been coming in for showers and cloudy weather for a week now, Gadag district headquarters, which was assured of drinking water from Bhadra reservoir, is still struggling for drinking water.

 The district administration’s assurance of providing water in “2-3 days” has not materialized in the past three months. Now, citizens are gearing up to start protests like roadblocks and rallies. At the other end, Bhadra reservoir has released its last reserve of water. If it doesn’t rain in the Bhadra river basin, the situation is expected to worsen in the coming days.
 
 The situation in Gadag-Betgeri has deteriorated since April 20, while the twin cities are expected to get drinking water till May 20. The district administration has taken up an experiment to supply water from dead storage at Hammigi.
 
 Sadanand Pilli, opposition leader in Gadag-Betgeri City Municipal Council, told TOI that the city Korlahalli jackwell was empty on March 18 and had received water from Bhadra only on April 6. “Water was supplied only for five days and the administration supplied this water to the twin cities till April 20. Citizens have not seen drinking water since then,” he said.
 
 Punith, assistant executive engineer, Bhadra reservior, Tarikere, said that a resolution had been passed at a meeting on May 5 to release about 3tmcft of water to Gadag-Betgeri. “We are releasing an average of 2,500 to 3,000 cusecs per day and this will last another 14 days. It will take 12-14 days to reach Gadag. Water flow is being hindered by unauthorized lifting of water on the way. It may reach the city only by May 15,” he added.
 
 The release of this water will leave the storage area empty, and there is need to take special permission from the government to utilize water from the dam’s dead storage.
 
 Meanwhile, the district administration has taken up an experiment to utilize water from dead storage at Hammigi. “The reservoir’s dead storage of 20tmcft is being released into Hammigi jackwell. We have released this water to Mundargi town on a pilot basis. If we succeed, we will supply it to Gadag-Betgeri. We are still waiting for water to be released from Bhadra reservoir, which is expected to reach in the next three days,” said Karisiddappa, assistant executive engineer, Karnataka Urban Water Supply and Drainage Board, Gadag sub-division 1.
 
 However, Gadag deputy commissioner Manoj Jain was unavailable for comment, despite calls and text messages to him.
 
 
