TRICHY: New mothers and their babies in Trichy district will get a free ride home from the hospital, thanks to a   launched by the state government under the   (NHM). Four more such vehicles will be added to the fleet in a month’s time.

 The first-ever such vehicle for the district was flagged off by S Valarmathi, state welfare minister for backward and minorities, in the presence of tourism minister  , district collector Dr K S Palanisamy and other officials at the district collector office on Friday. The vehicle aims to provide a comfortable journey to poor mothers and their newborn children from government hospitals in the district. So far, six mothers from the Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital(MGMGH) have benefited from the service. 
 
 “People use 108 ambulance service for emergency medical care to get admitted to hospital and return home after treatment. In the case of maternal mothers, they are hesitant to take the ambulance back home with their newborn. Most people prefer to take autorickshaws or cabs as they cannot afford to travel by car for long distances. We hope the new facility will be satisfactory to the mothers,” said joint director of health services (JDHS) Dr S Samsath Begum.
 
 The vehicle has been provided to the district under the Janani Suraksha Yojana through the National Health Mission (NHM) of the union government. The cost of the vehicle was Rs 9 lakh.
 
 At present, the drop-home vehicle will be stationed either at Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital (MGMGH) in Trichy or government headquarters hospital in Manapparai. Once the government provides the other four sanctioned vehicles, they will be in service in government hospitals where deliveries are high.
 
 To avail the facility, people must call the helpline 102 and book the service. The vehicle will be available at the hospital where they are treated within the next one hour, said health department officials. It will be a round-the-clock service but generally mothers are not discharged from hospitals late in the evening.
 
 As far as Trichy district is concerned, nine government hospitals are functioning excluding the MGMGH which is a medical college and hospital. Out of these, the number of deliveries touches 250 to 300 per month in Manapparai, Srirangam, Musiri and Thuraiyur government hospitals. 
 
