LUCKNOW: Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Saturday said   had once sided with the BJP to form a government in UP and will not hesitate to so again to come to power if such a situation arises. Referring to BSP supremo’s earlier tie-ups with the saffron brigade to form a government in UP, Akhilesh said there were strong indications the two parties will go in for a coalition if possible.

 “People remember how she had gone and tied a rakhi in the past only for the sake of grabbing power. Photographs of that event have blurred with time, so they may be planning a new photo session of the Rakshabandhan,” Akhilesh said taking a dig at the BSP boss and her history of forming a coalition government in UP with the help of the BJP in 2002 and then tying a rakhi to BJP stalwart Lalji Tandon.
 
 Responding to the recent statements of Shia clerics Maulana Kalbe Jawwad who issued a call supporting BSP, Akhilesh said this is because the firebrand leader was unhappy with him. Without taking names, Akhilesh said sometime back the cleric was in support of the BJP and now he was seeking support for BSP. “This indicates efforts for a BJP-BSP tie-up after the polls are already underway. But they will not be able to realise their dream and the SP-Congress alliance will form the government,” said Akhilesh. About Delhi Jama Masjid Shahi Imam Maulana Ahmed Bukhari’s call in favor of the BSP, the SP chief said the cleric’s blessings were with him.
 
 Taking about Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s comment that SP was catering to only one “qunba” (the Yadav clan), Akhilesh said these were signs that BJP realises it is losing ground in UP elections. “Such statements are clear indication that the BJP is rattled by the support the SP-Congress alliance is getting,” said Akhilesh, adding that leaders of his (Modi’s) stature should control their emotions and anger and exercise restrain in such situations.
 
 “Log mann ki baat karte rehte hain, kaam ki baat nahin karte (people speak their minds out but don’t speak of what they have done),” said Akhilesh in an obvious reference to prime minister Narendra Modi’s popular radio programme ‘Mann Ki Baat’, addressing mediapersons while releasing the 10-point priority list of the SP-Congress alliance with Congress vice president Rahul Gandhi in Lucknow on Saturday.
 
