TRICHY: This summer, residents can quench their thirst with spiced   (neer mor) at   set up by the   at 21 places in the city. The stalls were launched on Saturday. 

 With temperatures already touching 40 degree Celsius, the corporation has set up the stalls to help people rehydrate themselves with buttermilk and water.
 
 In Abhishekapuram, buttermilk will be available at four places – near Amma canteen in Puthur, opposite Shaans Hotel, Tawker Road Junction in Woraiyur and near Elangamariamman temple on Dindigul Road. More stalls are also expected to be set up at Edamalaipatti Pudhur and KK Nagar Road in the zone.
 
 In Ariyamangalam zone, buttermilk will be provided at six locations – Prabath Junction in Palakkarai, Kajapettai Road, Gandhi Market near Tower, Palpannai Junction on Thanjavur Road, near SIT College on Thanjavur Road and Thiruverumbur bus stand.
 
 Stalls have been set up at four places under Srirangam– Opposite Ragunath hotel near Chathiram bus stand, NSB Road, near Sriangam police station and Thiruvanaikovil Sannathi Street.
 
 Buttermilk will be available at four locations under Golden Rock zone – near district court, TVS toll gate, KK Nagar bus stop, MK Kottai section office and Manjathidal bus stop.
 
 The corporation has been encouraged by the overwhelming public response to the buttermilk stalls.
 
 “It’s a good plan to comfort the people this summer. We expect the corporation to provide the buttermilk in a hygienic manner,” said medical representative M Mariappan, who had the refreshing drink near the district court.
 
 The Trichy Corporation has sought public support to continue the scheme. “We have planned to distribute buttermilk till the end of May. I have advised the officials to accept curd from volunteers and not cash. We will ensure that the buttermilk supply is in a hygienic manner,” corporation commissioner N Ravichandran told ToI on Saturday evening. People who wish to sponsor for the buttermilk pandals can contact the assistant commissioners of their respective zone. 
 
