NEW DELHI: Prime Minister   urged people on Sunday to take the fight against black money and corruption to the “next level” and asked them to use less cash and rely more on digital transactions in their daily lives. “You can’t imagine how you can serve the country this way and become a brave soldier in the fight against black money and corruption,” the PM said in his radio programme, ‘Mann Ki Baat’. 

 Asking people to go for digital payment in daily transactions such as paying school fees, buying medicines and booking air and train tickets, he said, “The poorest are trying to learn about cashless transactions. People are gradually moving towards doing business without cash.”
 
 Observing that the Budget had announced that there would be 2,500 crore digital transactions this year, he said if 125 crore Indians could resolve, “they need not wait for a year; they can do it in six months”. 
 
 He noted that the Bhim App, launched about two and a half months ago, had already been downloaded by one and a half crore people. The PM also touched upon subjects ranging from building a “New India” to “Swachh Bharat”, besides greeting people of Bangladesh on their independence day (March 26). He also referred to Champaran Satyagraha, launched by Mahatma Gandhi in 1917, as the country observes the centenary of this historical event. 
 
 Ahead of Bangladeshi Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina’s visit to India, Modi said India was a “strong partner and a good friend” and both countries would “continue to work together to contribute towards peace, security and development” of the entire region. Hasina is scheduled to visit India during April 7-10 when both countries are expected to sign a number of agreements of bilateral cooperation in different fields. 
 
 Talking about “New India”, Modi said it was “neither a government scheme nor a political party’s manifesto nor a project. New India is a clarion call of 125 crore citizens. It is the essence of the emotions of 125 crore Indians wanting to come together and create a magnificent India”. 
 
 Referring to critics, the Prime Minister said, “When there is talk of ‘New India’, its criticism, its analysis and its counter views are but natural, and that is a fundamental of democracy. But it is true that if 125 crore Indians resolve, and decide to walk step by step on a path to realise that resolve, the dream of ‘New India’ can by fulfilled in our lifetime.”
 
