NEW DELHI: Another year, another forgettable outing. That's what best sums up Delhi Daredevils'   campaign. Losing JP Duminy and Quinton de Kock ahead of the tournament was a massive blow, and the team never recovered from it. They endured yet another forgettable season and finished sixth among the eight franchises. In fact, this is the third year in a row that the Daredevils have ended up in bottom three.
 
 What was baffling was that the Daredevils did not look for a replacement for either de Kock or Duminy until the last week of April when   joined the side. Lack of quality international players meant that the onus fell on the young domestic talent - which with all due respect couldn't cope against quality oppositions. There were flashes of brilliance, but by the time the side regrouped to win a few matches at the business end of the tournament, their Playoff chances were all but dashed.
  
 
 P 14 W 6 L 8 NR -0.51 Points 12
  
 
 
  
 The Daredevils went winless for 15 days, and the four-match losing streak was broken against one of the better sides of the tournament  , when they chased down 185 courtesy a collective effort by the batsmen.  's 19-ball 24 and Karun Nair's 20-ball 39 set the pace before allrounders Corey Anderson and Chris Morris put on 41 off 19 balls to take Daredevils past the target. Two days later, the Daredevils pulled off another stunning chase of 209 on the back of a stroke-filled 97 from  , and a 61 from Samson again. Regrouping from a thrashing at the hands of Mumbai Indians, Shreyas Iyer's wonderful knock of 96 saw Daredevils complete yet another successful chase of 195 against Gujarat Lions.
  
 
 
  
 Getting bowled out in double figures twice in one season. Simply unacceptable. Against Kings XI Punjab in Mohali, they were bowled out for 67 in 17.1 overs as Sandeep Sharma ripped through their top order. Just six days and three games later playing against Mumbai Indians on their At the Feroz Shah Kotla, Daredevils folded for 66 in chase of 213. Twice in under a week, did the Daredevils update their lowest   score, also allowing Mumbai to register the biggest win in IPL in terms of runs.
  
 
 
  
 Set to mentor the side,   had to rush in to captain the Daredevils at the last moment as Duminy opted to pull out. And yet, the former India bowler started well, and stood up to the task to lead Daredevils to victory in two of their first three matches. But then came the fall, and Zaheer was seen running out of options to settle on a static XI. He had a good team but a lot was reliant on the youngsters, who were exposed as the tournament progressed. Personally, an ageing Zaheer picked up 10 wickets at 31.30, and the way he bowled in a few matches was evident that his wily skills could still be asset. He picked up his 100th IPL wicket against Rising Pune Supergiant after bowling seven dot balls, sending back opener Ajinkya Rahane for a golden duck. It was the kind of delivery normally associated with Zaheer - good length, swinging back in and slipping through bat and pad.
  
 
 
  
 Having played only a handful of matches in the previous two editions, this year in hot conditions, Australian pacer Pat Cummins tasted the real rigours of the IPL. And with 17 wickets at an average of 29.35, you'd say he fared reasonably well. His economy took a beating - 8.29 - but he bowled with his tail up, without getting injured. His occasional connects with the bat can't be overlooked either. He scored his 77 runs at a strike rate of over 145, and with the 24 he scored against Gujarat Lions, Cummins supported Iyer at the other end as the Daredevils successfully chased down a near 200-total.
  
 
  
 Karun Nair became the toast of Indian cricket when he hit that famed triple-century against England, but since the Karnataka batsman has hit an unprecedented low. Nair, expected to be one of the batting mainstays for the Daredevils managed an underwhelming 281 runs from 14 matches. In his first four innings, Nair scored 58 runs but despite the lean patch, he continued to be backed by the management. Heck, he even captained the side for a couple of matches when Zaheer was out injured but that did no good to his batting. His struggles were evident and one such case in point was the way he approached his innings against Kolkata Knight Riders. He took 17 balls for 21. The amount of dot balls he consumed - an average 50 percent of the balls he faced weren't scored of - was equally alarming. Nair finally hit some sort of form with a 45-ball 64 against the Supergiant but one innings can't overshadow his overall struggle.
  
 
 
  
 As has been the trend, the Daredevils remain mainly undone by the same old nagging issue of inconsistency. This is a side that chased down totals of 208 and 195, and at the same time bowled out for 66 and 67. An ageing Zaheer, despite trying his best, could not lift the side once they went four matches across 15 days without a win. The Daredevils find themselves nowhere different that where they were at the end of last season and remain the only team among the original eight IPL teams to not make it to the final even once. Between teams which have played all 10 season of the IPL, the Daredevils have the worst win-loss record: 43 per cent.
 
