FIROZABAD/AGRA: With more than   out of jobs since the demonetisation policy was announced in November last year, the balance between demand and supply of workers has gone awry in the glass and bangle industry which is part of the  . Taking advantage of the surplus in unemployed workers, factory owners are allegedly paying low wages to them. Labour organizations said that complaints to the administration are not leading to results as officials are busy in election duties.
 
   , leader of  , one of the biggest workers’ unions in Firozabad, said, “Around 65% of bangle factories are still shut. A majority of those which are operating are exploiting workers. A large number of factories have lowered wages in the range of Rs 30 to Rs 50 per day from the Rs 400 per day that an average worker used to get. Workers are forced to work for long hours and even on Sundays and are being threatened when they raise their voice. They are openly told that scores of others are waiting to work in their place.”
  
  Singh claimed that he had written to the deputy labour commissioner, Agra apprising him of the situation, as the post of assistant labour commissioner, Firozabad was lying vacant till some time back. The labour leader said there were around two lakh workers in Firozabad bangle industry before demonetisation, but the number has now fallen to around 65,000.
  
  Assistant labour commissioner of Firozabad Nadeem Ahmad said he had not received any complaints so far and would take action if he received any. 
  
   , president of the   too denied the allegations, but painted a bleak picture of the industry in the area. He said it would take another two months to recover the losses. “Things will not improve until cash flow increases in the district. The production is down by 40% at present,” he said, a figure that was more optimistic than that mentioned by labour leaders.
  
  Talking about the difficulties being faced by labourers, Garg said a big factory is responsible for the lives of at least 1,000 families of workers, so one could imagine the impact if 40% factories are still shut. He accepted that the bargaining capacity of labourers has gone down. “There used to be shortfall in supply of workers in the market before demonetisation and they used to get 20%-30% above minimum wages, but now they are getting only minimum wage,” he said.
