NAGPUR: Those who cast their vote on Tuesday termed it as a  , and a vote against parties which overlooked public issues in last 5 years.

 Amid confusion due to large number of candidates, most voters said they considered local issues and individual image of candidates while voting. The much-hyped demonetization issue raised by the   was not considered while voting.
 
 “It was for development and not party. We voted for the ruling party as it stayed hawkers’ zone plan on Nandanvan Canal Road, which would have made our lives miserable,” said Maruti Hingne and his wife.
 
 Voters in Muslim-dominated Hasanbagh also voted for development, but it was not for the BJP. “They denied ticket to Muslim candidate and repeated Harish Dikondwar, who never came here and did not pay heed to our problems,” said Abdul Gani Shola, brother of former BJP leader Majid Shola.
 
 Hasanbagh was virtually divided between ex-corporator and NCP candidate Ibrahim Chudilwale and Congress’ Noor Jahan Mujib Warsi, both Muslims. “Here people vote on caste basis,” said Sheikh Habib Sheikh Mahboob, a cloth trader.
 
 The Congress was relying on Hasanbagh for bulk votes, and MPCC chief   even held a meet here for the 19,000 OBC, 7,500 SC and 11,000 Muslim voters. “I will win as people remember me as a grass root worker,” said Chudiwale.
 
 At Wathoda, despite rebellion in all parties, two strong candidates Vijay Chikte of Congress and BJP’s Bunty Kukde were pitted against each other. “We voted for Congress’ Chikte, who has been consistently raising shifting of Bhandewadi dump yard issue and development of civic amenities in new layouts,” said youngster Darpan Gajghate and others.
 
 The   slums witnessed brisk polling at KDK College, with voters considering each candidate before voting. In backward areas like Chikhli, Minimata Nagar, and Dipty Signal, which had influential candidates from Sena, Congress and BJP live, parties went all out to woo voters.
 
 “For 20 years, no corporators have done anything in these areas. We are away from development as compared to other city areas. Caste validity of Chhattisgarhi community and pattas are the biggest issues,” said Ramkisan Hirode, whose son Angad contested under the banner of Chhattisgarh Fire Brigade.
 
 However, these areas dominated by illiterate voters saw many voting for panels. “I voted for all four Congress candidates,” claimed Vandana Lokhande of Dipty Signal.
 
 Amrut Nirmalkar too echoed the same feelings, saying he voted for development and not a party.
 
 However, an engineering student and first time voter Anushree Bhoyar from Bidipeth-Tajbagh said she voted for development and the candidate. “We expect the winners to look into youths issues like setting up of library, free coaching centres, playgrounds etc,” she added.
 
 Another first time voter, Shivani Kukde of DNC College said she voted for educated candidates from good background.
 
