BATHINDA: To nurture students of government schools in areas bordering Pakistan to make them compete with those studying in top private schools, the Fazilka district administration has started a unique endeavour ‘i-CAN’. Under this project, government school students, mainly from rural background and studying in class XII, will be provided free coaching for a year to prepare them for entrance tests to medical, engineering and law courses.

 One centre each at Fazilka, Abohar and Jalalabad has been opened in the government girls’ senior secondary schools for coaching. Forty students will be selected for coaching at each centre on the basis of their performance in an entrance test and marks obtained in class X. Girls would comprise 60% of the students receiving coaching in each batch. 
 
 The project was launched by Fazilka deputy commissioner   on Wednesday with assistance from the education department. Kalia told  , “The basic idea behind ‘i-CAN’ is to instil confidence among students of rural background and that too from areas lacking in good educational facilities. ‘i-CAN’ stands for building future and the students will be provided coaching by government school teachers, who have volunteered to spare their time for this cause.”
 
 She said they had selected six to seven teachers for each centre, where they would be tutoring students in physics, chemistry, mathematics, biology and general aptitude on Saturdays and Sundays. The duration of these classes would be of six hours at every centre. These classes would become operational from next weekend.
 
 “We have a lot of talent even among the border area students but it could not be tapped. Now, we are making a start to ensure that the underprivileged students get better facilities for coaching. The project is expected to be helpful for students from rural backgrounds whose parents are not able to afford coaching at private centres,” said Kalia.
 
 One of the students selected for coaching under the project, Muskan from   village, said, “We are keen to take coaching and feel motivated under the ‘i-CAN’ project. We hope to do well in the entrance tests.” Jalalabad student Arpanjot Kaur, who pursues medical stream, said her parents were feeling the pinch while sending her to a private coaching centre apart from regular classes due to the money charged by these institutes. “I hope this project will be beneficial for us,” she said. 
 
