A lot has been said and done about Supreme Court’s decision which made playing   mandatory before the film screening in theatres. And just when we thought that we have finally put the matter to rest, a new incident has surfaced. Whether to play National Anthem before the live performances or not? Recently, a privately owned   in Mumbai Rang Sharada forced theatre artistes to play National Anthem when their performance was about to begin. Naturally, the theatre artistes were not prepared for this and had to argue with the theatre administration.

  The Supreme Court verdict clearly mentions that National Anthem should be played in theatres before movie screening and the anthem has to be in stipulated audio-visual format. However, the decision does not mention anything about   and live performances. Therefore, the incident has again sparked a debate about whether theatre owners can force artistes to play National Anthem or not. On this backdrop,   Times speaks to theatre artistes and theatre managers in city to know what their take on this is. 
 
  
 
 
  Theatre administrations in Nashik emphasis that there is no compulsion of playing National Anthem before live performances or plays. “It is customary to play National Anthem before live performances in some of the theatres in Mumbai, but that’s not in practice here,” says  , manager of  . “Neither the administration has ever forced anyone to play or sing National Anthem before any performance, nor have we received any circular from government saying we are supposed to do so,” he further adds.
 
  
 
 
   , a city-based playwright believes that such incidences are reflection of pseudo-patriotism. “There is wave of such pseudo-patriots now-a-days. And they attack artistes first. It’s nothing but social censorship. Who are they to judge how patriotic we artistes are?” he questions angrily.
 
  
 
 
   , city-based director says that there should not be any compulsion of playing National Anthem before performances. “I mean if someone plays it voluntarily, it’s more than welcome but compelling someone to do so is not right. Besides, if the theatre administration wants to play National Anthem before any show or performance, then they should arrange for it. It’s clearly a responsibility of the theatre administration and not the artistes who are about to perform there,” he adds.
 
 
