KOLKATA: Tipplers in   could be missing out on their favourite poison this Puja. With private liquor distributors — who will have their trading rights cancelled after November — reducing their stocks, both off-shops and on-shops in Kolkata are facing a supply crunch that could worsen during the ensuing festive season when demand soars. 

 The state government is set to take over liquor distribution in Kolkata through the  , which has now replaced private distribution across Bengal except the city and South 24 Parganas. As a result, distributors in the city are reluctant to build up stocks resulting in 80% drop in supply, say retailers and restaurateurs. Several premium brands like   Red Label, Blue Label, Teacher’s, Black Dog and Bacardi have already turned scarce across off-shops and bars, according to Sudesh Poddar, president, Hotel and Restaurants’ Association of Eastern India (HRAEI). “We are now getting about two days’ supply from distributors which is inadequate. Once we run out of stocks, we are having to wait for at least three days for fresh supplies. With sales set to rise during the pujas, we will surely be running out of the more briskly selling brands. To make matters worse for us, they have also discontinued credit facility which has put us under a financial strain,” said Poddar.
 
 Distributors, on the other hand, claimed that it doesn’t make sense for them to hold larger stocks since they are about to be thrown out of business. “Previously, we would procure and supply around 10 days’ stocks to retailers and bars. Since the volume was larger, the transactions would be on credit. Now, with our licences set to be cancelled, we have cut down our stocks or else we could be left with unsold stuff,” said Shiv Sultania, director, East India Spirits.
 
 Liquor-serving restaurants and off-shops are already feeling the pinch. “We are just about managing to meet the demand. But since our stocks are depleted, even a marginal surge in sales could lead to a crisis. We are a little worried about the puja period,” said Rajiv Kothari, owner of Bar-B-Q and One Step Up on Park Street.
 
 Others like Oasis are banking on loyal distributors to keep stocks flowing in. “So far, our distributors have not reduced supplies so we are lucky. But we have rationalized our stocks and have stopped acquiring some of the slow-moving brands. We are also trying to build stocks to last beyond the puja period,” said  , owner of Oasis restaurant. Kothari pointed out that several premium Scotch brands were short in supply.
 
 Representatives of the West Bengal Foreign Liquor Manufacturers’, Wholesalers’ and Bonders’ Association (WBFLMWBA) said they were procuring adequate stocks to meet the current demand. “Long-term transactions are now a thing of the past since our days are numbered. We are providing just about enough to retailers and bars. If the demand rises, there could be a crunch but we can’t help it. Since the government has taken the decision to replace private distributors, they should find an alternative,” said a representative of the association. He added that 16,000 people associated with private distributors are set to lose their livelihood.
 
 The distributorship switch has already led to a shortage of several premium liquor brands in the neighbouring districts of North 24 Parganas, Hoogly and Howrah. “We are going through a transition phase and the supply is still irregular. Since the last three weeks, we have been running short of several leading brands. It is hurting us,” said a retailer.
 
 These brands could disappear from Kolkata as well once private distributors exit, claimed the manufacturers’ and wholesalers’ association. “The state corporation is yet to finalize its liquor import policy which has stalled the supply of premium Scotch brands. More than the districts, this is going to hurt Kolkata since the city has more takers for Scotch,” said a representative.
 
