KOLHAPUR: Chitranagari, the one stop location for all shooting needs of a film or television, is all set to go on floors from June 15 after a nearly two-decade break. 

 Artistes and film-makers are excited about the renaissance of Chitranagari and are hoping to see   regain its title of the film city. The industry was on the worst phase some 15-20 years ago, when the Chitranagari had to shut down due to lack of funds and non-availability of infrastructure. 
 
  over a 75-acre plot in Morewadi, south of Kolhapur city, Chitranagari was set up in 1984 by the state government. The objective of setting up the film city was to provide infrastructural setup to the Marathi film industry and provide all the facilities -from shooting to post production-under one roof. 
 
 Swwapnil Joshi, one of the veteran actors in the Marathi film industry, told TOI that the availability of Chitranagari will create a host of opportunities and options for the people associated with the industry.
 
 "The industry is growing and of course, there is need for infrastructure. If the infrastructure, people and facilities are good enough, there is no doubt that the work will be endless. Everybody looks for good avenues. Hopefully, Chitranagari will be one of those avenues we are searching for," he said.
 
 Swapnil Rajshekhar, renowned actor in the industry and Kolhapur resident, said the   (ABMCM) is doing good work to keep a check on the work at Chitranagari and it will certainly be helpful for the city and the artists here.
 
 "Kolhapur, if you ask anyone in the industry, is a destination they love to be at. There are ample of skilled artists and professionals here, along with a variety of food and locations. With the start of Chitranagari, it will help a lot of people make most of the opportunity and showcase their talent," he said. 
 
 For example, a single serial shoot being done in and around the city for the last few months has employed at least 200 people in different capacities. "Imagine, if more than five serials and few film projects come to the city, it will benefit the overall economy of the city, he said. 
 
 Sandip Kulkarni, veteran actor from the Hindi and Marathi film industry, said he was happy to know the development of Chitranagari and that soon should be expanded in various parts of the state.
 
