It’s time to get your fighting spirit on and ‘pull the right strings’! For soon, you’re sure to hear cries of ‘dheel dey do’ and ‘kai po chhe!’ with   or Festival of Kites coming up on January 14. The city skies will be a battlefield with larger-than-life butterflies to slender mermaids, long-tailed dragons, 3D lanterns, giant fish as well as cartoon characters. The young and old will try and outdo each other with their nifty maneuvering skills. But this time around, the participation may not be the same as before, courtesy footfalls,   worries and more…
 
 
  
  
 “This year,   has affected us a lot. Business is bad; in fact it’s down by almost 50 %,” says Anisa Salim,” a   vendor near SV Road, Bandra. Other sellers are keeping their fingers crossed. Says Ravindra Pal Singh, from sector-17, Vashi, “Every year, since 22 years, we do good business, we are hoping that its stays that way and demonetisation does not affect us, after all kagaz ka karobaar hai,” he says. And what’s popular this year? “Cartoon-themes kites, which kids love. This year, Motu-Patlu are in demand, so is the ‘Modi patang’,” he adds. And to be safe, most shops are selling a plain  . “We have the saada one in stock, not the glass one,” he adds.
 Others are feeling a crunch in footfalls and it’s not just due to the recent currency issue. “Where are the kites now in Mumbai?” asks Prashant Jadhav, vendor from Santa Cruz East. “Nowadays, kids are so immersed in their mobiles that they don’t have the inclination to get outdoors and fly kites, so the real fun has become 70 % less. Earlier, you could see so many families with their children on terraces and in playgrounds, but that seems to be slowly receding.” Is this also about people waking up to the dangers of manja? “Not really. The tangoos manja (nylon) is banned, but you are still getting it in small areas and it is being bought,” he adds.
 
 
 
  
  
 The downside of the festival comes from the sharp manja used, which is responsible for injuries and even deaths of humans and as well as birds. Ravi Shah a seller from Andheri affirms this. “Unfortunately, people want the sharpest manja and don’t realise the danger,” he says. Mumbai animal rights activist Sunish Subramanian, “Every year, so many pigeons, kites and crows get entangled in this glass-coated manja. And the danger is not necessarily posed only on the same day as the festival, it’s a lingering danger as the manja hangs on trees and telephone poles even after the festival and birds get caught in this and get badly cut. I have also seen this causing injury to baby birds in nests.” He shares word of caution if you have to play. “Be careful of flying kites near lakes and seaside as there is bird movement there. Also avoid pigeon-feeding areas. It is during the evenings near sunset when birds return home and that is when they are in the greatest danger.” He also calls for stricter adherence to rules. “The Chinese manja is banned but it’s still available in smaller pockets so there must be a stricter monitoring by law enforcing-agencies to implement the ban and ensure no one sells it,” he states.
 
 
 
 
 
 
