Creator of shows like 'Sanjeevani', 'Vivaah', 'Ssshhh Koi Hai' and 'Crime Patrol Season 1, Siddharth has now branched out along with wife Sapna to form his own production house which will create content for several networks. Talking about his journey as a single producer, Sidhdharth says he has had fun until now, “So far it has been very fulfilling journey as a single producer, but I am not single, I am double; it's me and my wife Sapna. Actually, had Sapna not been there to be by my side, I wouldn’t have been able to get things done like how I am. It's Sapna who has actually taken over the mantle of multitasking ; handling my house and handling my company so well. It’s only due to her abilities that I can stand and build. So, production wise it's all thanks to Sapna”
He also says that he has a great team which helps them deliver as a team, “Creatively I have been fortunate to be associated with great minds. I have had Raghuvir Shekhawat who is a pillar of strength for me and a friend. He is a writer and he someone who is treated as my elder brother. He stood by me at a time which I will never forget. Besides, I had a lot of people who I feel blessed working with. That’s why, the journey so far as a single producer has been really happening. I hope to deliver further in that capacity.”
 His show ' ' which went on air recently on Zee   looks quite promising. Buzz is that Siddharth remade his earlier film 'We Are Family' as a show, to which he says, 'Woh Apna Sa' is not a television version of 'We Are Family'. The only similarity between the two is that the story is of the ‘other woman. But in the show, we are showing the other woman in the good light and the homemaker as the home breaker and the other woman is the homemaker. 'We Are Family' was the official remake of 'Step Mom', and this is not 'Step Mom'. It's radically different, and the minute you see the episodes, you'll come to know that it is an original concept.”
 Another interesting bit is the fact that Siddharth has got two divas of TV,   and   as the lead cast on the show. So, is he afraid of the ego clashes that may happen? He smiles and says, “I am ready for every tussle in the show but I hope not on any personal grounds! I like to have a peaceful and fun atmosphere and I am very clear with my actors that until I don't default you don't default. Disha Parmar and Ridhi Dogra are very wonderful people to work with, I can say that as of now. They have been delightful and spot on in their performances and are really nailing their characters really well. But yes, bringing them together was not planned. First we had Ssudeep Sahir, after which Disha Parmar came on board. After her came Vindhya Tiwari, who had to quit later. Ridhi Dogra was the last one top get on board, just one day before we started shooting. You know, everything fell into the place as if it was a sign from above that it was meant to be. So yes, I am ready for any tussle in the show, but I hope not in real life!”
 
