“It is okay to feel the slump at work sometimes,” says relationship counsellor Varkha Chakraborty. “What you need to do is boost your motivation every now and then so that you don’t lose hope at work,” he adds.
 
 According to Alesia Khanna, a 36-year-old banker, seeing her colleagues getting fired has made her feel insecure about her job. She says, “I have been working in my company for the past three years and in just one year, I have seen a few of my colleagues being fired for almost no reason. This has made me feel that I might undergo the same at some point of time and has affected my work.”
  
 
 
 No matter what the job atmosphere is, you need to remember that staying positive will make a huge impact and will keep you motivated. If you lose hope, no one will be able to help you. Negativity will drain you and will sap you of your energies, thereby making you feel low at work.
  
 
 
 At times, the reason to feel demotivated at work is that you have too many negative people working with you. This is exactly when you should be with people who are optimistic and encourage themselves as well as you from time to time.
  
 
 
 If you think the reason for feeling demotivated is your superiors, trying talking it out with your immediate superior. Once you vent out, not only will you feel relieved, but you will also be able to understand the perspective of your boss. This in turn will encourage you to perform better at your tasks.
  
 
 
 If you think that your colleague losing out on his/her job is something that is constantly worrying you or people finding it difficult to cope at work is something that affects you indirectly, don’t let it affect you much. This is all a part and parcel of the professional environment and working hard and responsibly will surely reap benefits.
  
 
 
 Says clinical psychologist Dr Seema Hingorrany, “Staying in a negative work atmosphere surely pulls you into further negativity. Thus, if you are not happy with your present job, don’t think you have amiable people in your work atmosphere, it is better to move out of such a scenario and look out for a job which suits you.”
 
 
 
 You don’t have to be in a hurry to look out for another job. Often one tends to regret the decisions that they take in haste. This is exactly why you should wait for the right moment and the opportunity when you are looking out for a job. Get yourself registered with various job portals and be up-to-date with the openings that are available in your industry.
  
 
 
 Says Shobita Raina, a 27-year-old IT professional, “I was jobless for almost eight months and I started losing hope. I would keep applying to various companies but none had any vacancies. That is when a friend suggested that I approach an outsourced HR agency and send my resume to them. Within two weeks, they approached me with a job opening and I was happy taking up the work.”
 
