HYDERABAD: A study conducted by the Institute for Development and Research in Banking Technology, established by the  , reveals that there are many gaps in the formal banking system for migrant labour in Hyderabad city and  . 

 The study that spoke to more than 500 people also found that the  , offered by the  , are not popular as migrants prefer to carry cash or use their social network. 
 
 A large part (59 per cent) of the total remittances was through this mode (carrying cash) while 27 per cent of the remittances were done through the banking or business correspondent channel. 
 
 Interestingly, for remittances, the respondents did not use the services of agents, post offices or money transfer agencies.
 
 People said that they face many problems in banks for their remittance needs. These include crowded banking access points, transactions taking long time due to huge rush of customers, unsuitable timings and some transactions considered too complicated (largely a consequence of low levels of education among migrants). Crowded access points were cited as the major obstacle to increased use of banking services.
 
 Remittances are made mainly for daily needs, education needs, repaying old loans, building or buying houses and health needs of the household. Curiously 42 per cent of the respondents understand that the cost of remitting money is less than one per cent. About 27 per cent of the respondents did not know the cost of remitting money through the payment systems of the banks.
 
 The study suggested that there is a large potential for the expansion of banking services by introducing a new suite of banking services that includes doorstep banking, accepting remittances and payout of remittances. Doorstep banking and offering customization of technology solutions are possible in the form of a micro-ATM. They will escalate the scope for electronic payments since it will increases customers among migrant workers. There is great need to expand the scope of mobile usage.
 
