It’s past midnight on New Year’s Eve, and the phone rings off the hook at the busy police control room (PCR) in Noida. An operator picks up, expecting someone to report a parking issue or drunken brawl, but to the cops’ surprise, the caller simply wants to wish them a happy and prosperous new year. This was very common at the   in Noida this New Year, with cops reporting over 3,000 calls of the same nature. What’s surprising is that even a week after New Year’s, the greetings in the PCR have not stopped.

 
 
 Officials at the control room say that while they receive about 5,000 calls every day, this number was almost twice as high between December 31 and January 1. What’s interesting is that about one-third of these calls (roughly over 3,000) were ‘Happy New’ greetings. 
 
 Shabana Khan,  , says, "On New Year, almost one-third of the calls we received were New Year greetings. People would wish the operators even if they didn’t have any complaint to register. This began late in the evening of December 31, and continued till the next evening. The operators were a little taken aback initially, but then, they also wished the callers back. It’s good for their morale."
 
 
 
 The greetings continued till the end of the first week of January too, albeit the frequency of such calls has gone down now. “On New Year’s Eve and New Year’s Day, every third call was a New Year greeting. Ab utna bura haal nahin hai, par ab bhi din me kuch call toh aa hi jaate hain. In fact, some people begin their call with a ‘Happy New Year.’ Uske baad apni complaint batate hain,” says an operator at the PCR.
 
 
 
 The operators at the control room are largely happy about the New Year greetings, saying that it feels good that people take out time to wish them. An operator says, "Many of the calls were made by kids. They would just say, ‘Uncle, Happy New Year’. Hum bhi waapis, ‘Same to you!’ bol dete thay. It feels good that even though we were on duty and away from family, there was someone who remembered to wish us." A few, however, are irked by the constant calls. "People don’t realise that there are limited number of lines, and if you waste time by calling to wish us a ‘Happy New Year’, you are denying someone with a genuine and urgent problem to be able to access the police," says another operator.
 
 
 
 
 
 
