Nagpur: Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis on Saturday said autonomy was the most important factor in achieving excellence by educational institutes and his government would extend full cooperation to colleges in that direction.

 “Autonomy brings value to an institute. Generally, hundreds of colleges are affiliated to a single university in our system. This puts a lot of pressure on colleges and universities. Autonomous colleges are free to take decisions for research and development without any interference,” Fadnavis said.
 
 The chief minister’s statement came as a shot in arm for the colleges affiliated to Nagpur University which are in the process of seeking or becoming autonomous.   and GS College having completed most of the formalities are in the last leg of the process with inspection by UGC committee remaining to be done.
 
 Fadnavis was speaking at a function organized to inaugurate the   of Shivaji Science College.
 
 Fadnavis said just like for inauguration of the building, he would love to come again when Shivaji Science College gets autonomy. “During our school days, it was the dream of every kid to get admission to Shivaji Science College. Maximum photographs of merit students in papers used to be from this college,” he said.
 
 The chief minister however warned that educational institutes are not just to produce degree holders but develop quality human resource. “India’s 50 % population is below the age of 25. This demographic dividend should be converted into a better human resource in next 10 to 15 years.
 
 Union minister for transport Nitin Gadkari, mayor Nanda Jichkar, MLC Anil Sole, Shivaji Education Society’s newly elected president Harshwardhan Deshmukh, principal Devendra Burghate, college magazine coordinator Rini Diwidi and co-convener Pratibha Burghate and others were present. 
 
 Gadkari, in his brief speech, acknowledged the contribution of Dr Panjabrao Deshmukh in establishing in Vidarbha one of the best institutions. “It was because of Deshmukh’s efforts that children of economical backward people from the region and farmers could become doctors and engineers.”
 
 Burghate quoted Albert Einstein and Swami Vivekananda to emphasize that the college gives importance to core human values which are essential for the nation’s success. “Shivaji Science has repeatedly been getting top ranking and rating in NAAC assessment. We are the one college affiliated to Nagpur University to get the status of ‘College with excellence potential’ from the UGC,” he said.
 
 
