

 PUNE: They are the go-to guys when taste dictates that you own a customized, bells-and-whistles-attached guitar, or even when all you need is a no-frills instrument with plain good sound and feel. They would lovingly attend to the cracking and warping that handling and humidity brings to the music maker, but turn a scornful eye to any Hendrix-like desecration of it. Welcome to the world of luthiers - artisans who dabble with a variety of woods, frets and tuning keys to produce quality stringed instruments. 
 
 Outside of the teams working for mass-production guitar makers, luthiers working independently are but a few in the country. "I won't be able to count more than ten of us in India, and just two in Pune," says Enoch Harold (30), as he saws into a two-foot-long block of maplewood at his workshop at Bavdhan. The wood will go into making a pricey electric guitar for Kaustubh Dhavale of Pune's rock band Agni. As your jaw drops in disbelief on hearing what it costs, he clarifies that the imported wooden block alone has set him back by Rs 45,000.
  
  
 
 
 Harold made his first guitar for a friend in Nagaland when he was just 17. His workshop proudly displays an array of Sheffield tools which he used to make that guitar. The toolset was a gift from his grandfather, an army major and a nifty interior decorator. Harold still uses the toolset, in addition to his own chisels, planers, clamps and fretting tools, many of them imported. He attributes his self-taught carpentry to "always having been good with my hands at technical and electrical works in school". 
 
 The boy from Allahabad honed his luthier skills from the Internet and books. "I accidentally met a Spanish luthier on the Net who guided me in the art of guitar-making. I was 16 then and remember cycling to the cybercafe regularly to talk to him, paying Rs 15-20 per minute for Net time in those days. He sent me some notes in Spanish, which I got translated into English," he says.
 
 So do luthiers also play the instruments they make? Harold gives you a look which reads: Heck, don't car manufacturers drive the vehicles they make? Sure, he is an accomplished guitarist, with a strong affinity for the flamenco guitar (remember Gipsy Kings' and their signature Bem Bem Maria). He started off with the acoustic guitar (no amplifiers) before graduating to the electric guitar (solid body, needs amplifiers) and then the flamenco. He digs the flamenco and says it's close to the classical guitar in looks; only the tone and feel are different. 
 
 Cut to another end of town at   where the city's other luthier, Rahoul Waghmare (37), respected his dad's wish to do computer science and his mother's push that he pursue law. "I did both courses, and today am also in the construction business. But the music scene is where I always wanted to be. As a child growing up in Byculla in Mumbai, I would frequently stray into the Catholic chawl nearby and listen to guitar renditions of songs like 'Dum Maaro Dum...' However, it was only in Pune that I learnt the guitar from  , a master musician who was in the composing team of R D Burman that gave us songs like ' ...', he says.
 
 When Waghmare tired a bit of his first guitar, he scoured the Net for a classier one but found the price range forbidding. So he decided to build his own. In 2009, he approached a tonewood supplier in Mumbai, who till then had only exported wood. He spent Rs 2,500 on rosewood for the back and sides of the instrument and ebony for the fretboard. Inexperienced in cutting and sawing then, he hired a carpenter for the job. And voila, after paying for imported frets, keys and Canadian cedar for the top, he had a brand new guitar for just Rs 6,000!
 
 Of the 20-odd guitars he has crafted thereafter, Waghmare prides himself on the Rs 2 lakh one he made in 2014 for a researcher who is doing a Ph.D in music's effect on neurological problems. "I designed the guitar to sound like a sitar, probably the first of its kind in the country. That was a high-priced instrument. The cheapest I have made is for Rs 20,000. And then I like the flamenco guitar I made for a Marathi serial producer," he says.
 
 So what do the luthiers do when not flirting with their maples, mahagonies, ebonies and rosewoods? Well, Waghmare exports certain Indian woods, manufactures tuning keys but is mostly occupied with his construction projects. Harold, meanwhile, repairs guitars, teaches music and does gigs. There's plenty on their plate for self-sustenance when they are not merging music with matter.
 
