Nagpur: Aiming to create awareness about body fitness and flexibility, Comrade Fitness Zone is organizing a fitness workshop ‘Bollywood Dance Fitness’ for members of Nagpur for Kids Club at its centre, Comrade Activity Zone, Lotus Electronics, Empress City, on Saturday from 4.30pm to 7pm. The theme of the workshop is ‘Fitness with Fun’.

 Emphasis will be laid on Bollywood dance numbers as children can relate to them and have fun in the process. Complimentary swimming classes for NFK members will also be provided by Fitness Zone.
 
 Bhakti Shah, founder, Comrade Activity Zone, said, “This is the first such workshop in the city; we are mixing fitness with Bollywood. Our main aim is to introduce children to the concept of fitness and the importance of doing exercises for a healthy living.” 
 
 Shah added that though the fitness workshop is not a high calorie workout, it is fast paced and energizing workout. The workshop shall initially start with slow warm ups and then burst into full disco dance numbers.
 
 Alex Peter, choreographer, who shall take the session, said, “Dance steps of Bollywood actors like Govinda, Shah Rukh Khan and others shall be taught to the children which they can harmonize. The upbeat and expressive Bollywood music holds the power to bring anyone on the dance floor.”
 
 He highlighted the fact that one does not need to be a seasoned dancer to do the workshop and its only aim is to generate consciousness regarding body and mind fitness. He added that other fitness regimes like Zumba, aerobics and yoga do not draw attention of the youngsters in the city. This has made some come up with the Bollywood dance fitness regime which will keep the body fit as well as have entertainment simultaneously.
 
 The workshop is divided into two parts. The major part of the workshop is Bollywood Dance fitness and the other is swimming class, which is a complimentary class. 
 
 Mothers of the children are in for a treat as the fitness zone shall have Bollywood dance fitness regime for them during the second part, when the kids are taking the swimming classes.
 
 Shah added, “Such workshops not only help the fitness process but also help children get better in communication and gain confidence. This fitness regime does not have an age or gender bar and is open for all.” 
 
 WHAT TO EXPECT
 
 Fitness workout with experts
 
 Bollywood Dance sessions with choreographers
 
 Complimentary swimming classes for NFK members
 
 Dance fitness regime for mother of NFK members
 
 Reporting by Praveen Tewari
 
 
