NEW DELHI: BJP’s decision not to give a second chance to sitting councillors and Congress’ keenness on injecting flesh blood has come as a shot in the arm for former student leaders looking to take the poll plunge. Many of them have mobilised their army of supporters to impress on party high command to give them tickets. 

 Twenty-six-year-old Pooja Manish Jha, for example, has already won her first battle, having secured an AAP ticket from Mubarakpur Dabas. A former vice-president of the student union at Shyama Prasad Mukherji College, Jha actively campaigned for women safety back then. While she acknowledges that municipal elections will be a different challenge altogether, she is confident that her experience will stand her in good stead.
 
 Ankit Dedha, an ex-student of Dayal Singh College (Evening), too held the position of a vice-president. He is seeking a Congress ticket from Patparganj in east Delhi. Even if he does get one, Dedha knows that it won’t be any easy task, considering that Patparganj is a BJP bastion of sorts. He gathers courage from the support of his friends from the students politics days. Dedha claims that he’s been preparing for his electoral debut for five years. 
 
 Winnable or not, these aspirants are working overtime to ensure that their transition to “real” political world is as smooth as possible: right from holding meetings in their areas, engaging strategists and connecting with supporters, they are not leaving any stone unturned.
 
 Vedpal Lohia, an ex-student of Shaheed Bhagat Singh College, says he wants to bring about change and, for that, he’s hoping for a Congress ticket from Aya Nagar. “My area doesn’t even have parks. People cannot build houses without bribing corporation officials,” he tells TOI.
 
 The popular belief is that those who have recently graduated from student politics are less corruptible. “They carry their energy, enthusiasm and passion into a new job because they have a long future to look ahead to,” says Ashutosh, whose Swaraj India has given a high number of tickets to youths. Sarita Rani who is contesting from Chirag Delhi on a Swaraj India ticket, says: “I gained rich experience in my college days (where she was associated with ABVP).”
 
 When Kriti Wadhera met BJP Delhi chief Manoj Tiwari recently, her victory in the 2009 DUSU polls worked in her favour. Wadhera will contest from east Delhi’s Shakarpur, a ward reserved for women. 
 
 Those who have got tickets have already started campaigning. Those who haven’t aren’t sitting idle either. “We hold regular meetings and connect with the public,” says Dedha.
 
 
