 might have been his party's staple plank for years but a day before Prime Minister  's  , BJP worker and exoffice-bearer Khursheed Alam is on the job in full earnest. Given the task to ensure 5,000   are put up at the   ground, Khursheed's work got over at around 6pm on Sunday after putting in around 16 hours each in the past three days.

 Speculations are rife over whether the PM would announce more sops at Monday's rally. A senior BJP leader said the PM has been springing surprises in the recent past and everyone is keeping fingers crossed. “Modi sarkar apekshaaon ki sarkar hai(Modi government is a government of hope),“ national media convenor and party secretary Srikant Sharma said, adding that at the rally comparison will be drawn between “good governance“ of Modi-led NDA government at the Centre and the “misrule“ of Samajwadi Party , Bahujan Samaj Party and the Congress in the state. He added that misrule of the SP government has not allowed benefits given by the Centre through various schemes like financial aid to pregnant women, increase in Mudra Bank loan amount, waiving of interest on crop loans to farmers and two-fold increase Centre's assistance to NABARD from Rs 21,000 crore to around Rs 40,000 crore to reduce farmers' problem, etc are the schemes which need to be highlighted.
 
 Terming the present feud in Samajwadi Party's first family as “nautanki“, Sharma said Akhilesh Yadav had fai led on every front ever since he took charge in 2012. “The present drama is being played only to divert public attention from the state government's failure,“ the national secretary concluded.
 
 The PM's address on Monday is significant also in that it might be the last major political address by BJP's top election campaigner before Budget 2017, by which time, election fever would have gripped the state. Among other preparations, UP BJP's IT Cell has deployed around 250 `cyber warriors', to ensure the name of national BJP chief Amit Shah, who would also be present at the rally, to stream live on Facebook and Twitter.
 
 
