MEERUT: It seems as if the   ( ) authorities need loss of some precious lives to come out of their slumber and get the two  , which function on rare occasions, in the Cantonment area corrected.
 
  According to data available with the Uttar Pradesh  , in 2015, there were a total of 952 accidents in Meerut district, which ranked fifth among all districts in Uttar Pradesh. However, it’s not enough for the MCB to swing into action. One of the basic postulates of the MCB’s development plan is ‘traffic control and installation of traffic signals’, but it has failed on both counts — the MCB is unable to ‘control traffic’ because the installed traffic lights don’t function, and it has not been successful in installing new traffic lights.
  
  Shikhar Nehru, a Cantonment area resident, told TOI, “The traffic lights don’t function at all. Besides, traffic cops are there only on rare occasions. It is an extremely risky situation as crossings such as Roorkee road witness heavy movement of vehicles, including heavy motor vehicles. However, as you approach the crossing, there are some blind spots, which make things even worse.”
  
  “Apart from these, there are a number of schools in the Cantonment area, and school buses pass through the crossing with students on board. The apathetic attitude of the MCB may result in a horrific tragedy someday,” Nehru added.
  
  The two traffic signals, which exist physically, were installed around 20 years ago, along with timers.
  
  “We seem to be going backward instead of moving forward. Traffic lights used to work in 1996-97 when they were installed, and people actually used to follow them. But now, the traffic is chaotic as these lights don’t function. The Cantonment board should have actually installed more traffic lights in the last 20 years as traffic has increased exponentially,” said Vikram Singh, another resident of Cantonment area.
  
  MCB officials, however, said they were working to install new solar lights instead of correcting the older ones. “We are installing solar lights instead of the traditional traffic lights. The work is underway and will be completed very soon. Due to the imposition of the model code of conduct, some of our works have been affected. We will be installing the new lights very soon,” said MCB media officer M A Zafar.
