KOLHAPUR: The   since last week has provided relief to   and  . The long dry spell in the first half of July could have had a long term impact on total sugar output.

 The district has been receiving heavy rain since last week after the dry spell of more than 15 days. Continuous rain filled major dams in the district up to satisfactory levels. Sugar experts have called the week long spell a major boost for crushing in the upcoming season.
 
 As per the information of regional sugar joint directorate, the district has cultivated sugarcane on 1.42 lakh hectares. The long dry spell could have had an impact on tonnage. But good rain has assured farmers and millers about their estimates for this crushing season.
 
 Sugar expert and executive director of Shahu Maharaj cooperative sugar industry Vijay Autade said, “The monsoon spell has provided a big relief to farmers and millers. The situation was critical only a fortnight ago. The long halt in rains could have impacted the final output. Now major dams have reached satisfactory levels. Therefore we can expect to reach estimated output for the upcoming season.
 
 The regional sugar directorate has estimated 173 million tons as a primary figure for 2017-2018 season. However, a good monsoon could further increase crushing.
 
 Another sugar expert P G Medh said, “The three months— June, July and August are important for sugarcane growth. Many farmers cultivate sugarcane in June and July to take advantage of natural irrigation. But the long dry spell had scared farmers and stakeholders in the sugar sector. Diseases were appearing on the crop due to fluctuations in temperature. But good showers since last week brought a smile on farmers’ faces.”
 
 Medh further added, “Two years ago, the district administration had put restrictions on water pumping due to poor monsoon. It affected sugar output in 2016. But we will not face a similar situation this year.”
 
 The district is known as the sugar bowl and has the highest sugar recovery in the state due to an abundance of water for irrigation.
 
 
