This August, there’s an interesting mix of the contemporary and the legends, as the second edition of Bengaluru Poetry Festival is set to take place on August 5 and 6. “There is a lot of difference between a normal literature festival and a poetry festival. The latter has more performances and readings and the use of word is more direct,” says festival director  . 
The team has put together a newer mix of voices and names, and they want to also emphasize on the new voices in contrast to the already acclaimed names, who will also be a part of the festival. The team has also received a huge boost in terms of encouragement after their first edition.
 "The biggest takeaway from the first edition was that poetry was more popular than what we thought. Poetry does not need any secret society of admirers. What we saw last year was that the turnout was huge and we had a big crowd. The logistics, in comparison, didn't measure up to hold that big an audience. This year, we have ensured that we have bigger rooms to ensure everyone gets to enjoy the sessions," says Shinie.
 The theme of diversity also remains in terms of themes and participants. "We were very careful about not repeating participants or themes. We want to ensure that we get newer people and interesting discussions every year. We are ensuring that we try to give something to everyone in this festival with our varied lineup of participants, which includes senior names, international writers, popular names from showbiz and new voices," adds Shinie.
 Among some of the big names scheduled to participate in the festival are Gulzar, Amjad Ali Khan, Ashok Vajpeyi, Chandrashekar Kambar,  , Padmavati Rao, Niranjan Iyengar and Jahnavi Barua, among others. Each day will also see performances. This year, the two performances will be mystic poetry by   and group and a folk-sufi performance by   and group. 
 There are also varied workshops that are tailored for both adults and kids, which will need prior registration, while the entire event, including the performances, are free for public.
