GAYA: Patna University (PU) professor  , an expert on university laws and a former member of the  , has questioned the legal validity of college principals holding office beyond 62 years of age on account of them holding non-teaching posts.

 In a petition addressed to governor-cum-chancellor Ram Nath Kovind, Thakur has demanded implementation of amended section 64 of the Bihar Universities Act 1976. As per the amendment made in the Act in 2012, the post of principal was excluded from the teaching category. Prior to the amendment, principals were treated as teaching employees of the university.
 
 In response to Thakur’s letter, Arshad Aziz, joint secretary, governor’s secretariat, has sought a report from PU registrar on the implementation of section 64 of the Act. Quoting the Act, Thakur, in his petition, says that teacher, as per the Act only means professor/reader/lecturer.
 
 Making a particular reference to the continuance of Rakesh Kumar Verma as principal of the Patna Law College, Thakur said Verma has already crossed the age of superannuation as fixed for the non-teaching employees. In the petition, Thakur says that as per records, Verma was born on September 9, 1954 and as such he attained the age of 62 in September 2016.
 
 Thakur also refers to section 27 of the PU Act which fixes the tenure of principal of colleges at five years in any one college. Verma is the principal of the law college for the last 10 years, says the petition. The same section 27 puts the tenure of the dean of any faculty at two years. Verma has been occupying the post of dean for more than two years, it is alleged in the petition.
 
 Haridwar Singh, former principal of A N College, Patna, said principals are everywhere regarded as teachers. “Only persons with specified teaching experience are eligible for appointment as principals. If the 2012 amendment has caused any ambiguity, the government should come forward with necessary clarifications and if need be, the Act should be further amended to include principal in the teaching category. The original Act enforced in 1976 puts principals in the teaching category,” said Singh.
 
