There are many healthy ways to start your day. Drink a glass of water with lemon and honey. Go for a run. Do 30 surya namaskars. Or, if your idea of a workout is a little more adventurous, you could show up at a morning   party and dance the dawn away. 

  A popular social movement in the west, morning parties are now making fitness-conscious Indians get up at 5am to head for a "do" to burn calories. Aer, the rooftop club at Four Seasons, Mumbai, just hosted one. Organised by Magicrise, a morning dance movement, the party offered Zumba, belly jazz, DJs thumping out dance tunes, health food and drinks to pick on, and spectacular early-morning views of the Mumbai skyline for a cover charge of Rs 750 per person. 
 
 Monisha Daga, an entrepreneur, attended a do at a GK-2 club in Delhi a few months ago. "There were these trainers dancing on the stage and we all had to follow their moves. They charged up the atmosphere and made us feel energetic," says Daga.
 
  Trishla Kasliwal, a dentist, has attended two morning parties hosted by  , a fitness app. "There's a strong, positive vibe generated by so many people being happy and dancing together first thing in the morning. The best part: you don't have to dress up. Just put on your tracks and sneakers and you're ready," she says. 
 
 One may ask how a regular dance-exercise routine is different from a dance fitness party. Sanmati Pande, CEO Growfitter explains: "These events are like hooks, they get non-exercising people inspired and charged up to take up regular exercising. It's also a fun but different way to unwind and enjoy on a Sunday morning". Bhadra has organised three parties so far.
 
 The idea of a feel-good, positive, wellness-type morning party originated in New York. Matthew Brimer and his girlfriend Radha Agrawal founded Daybreaker, an early morning dance movement, in 2013.
 
 Inspired by Daybreaker's concept and success, Uday Raj Anand, an Oxford-educated development economist, launched Crush Fitness in Delhi in 2015. "The challenge lies in making exercise feel like a party, and fun without alcohol," says Anand, who has organised social fitness gatherings in parks, malls and two parties at clubs in the past two years.
 
 According to Rakhi Mehta of Magicrise, who has hosted 15 parties in Mumbai, Hyderabad and Bengaluru in the past 10 months, the trend is gathering steam. "The morning party is an acquired taste," says Mehta.
 
