Mumbai: Parshva Bhankharia, a   from the   ( ) who scored around 65% in his previous five semesters, was marked ‘absent’ in all four papers in his sixth semester exam of LLB. 

 While there have been several cases of ‘absenteeism’ in this exam, Bhankharia is probably the only student in Mumbai   till now who has been marked   in all his subjects. After a month of pursuance and the risk of losing an LLM seat looming large, he now plans to seek legal action against the university.
 
 Thousands of students were marked ‘absent’ in this exam as their answersheets were not traceable. Papers were misplaced during the scanning and online assessment process that was introduced for the first time. Despite its best attempts, the university is still unable to trace over 1,600 answersheets. The Board of Examinations (BoE) recently decided to give the affected students an average of the marks scored in the remaining subjects. Bhankharia, however, could be a unique case as he has been marked absent in all papers and the university has still not managed to declare his results. If his papers are among the missing lot, the university will have to devise a different formula to give him marks.
 
 Bhankharia, who scored the highest marks in his college in the fifth semester, was expecting similar marks in the final one too. His anticipation was shortlived.
 
  “I took the exams from my centre at KC College. Many of my classmates too were marked absent, despite attempting it, mostly in one or two papers,” he said. Bhankharia had even applied for the confidential scores individually for all subjects, but failed to get any response from the university. 
 
 In an application to the university’s examinations controller and the vice-chancellor, he mentioned that since his results are declared and not kept in reserve, he is unable to apply for photocopies and for revaluation too. In fact, he could not be part of the petition filed by a group of students last week for revaluation. “I do not even fit in that category,” said Bhankharia. Results of the final semester exams of LLB (three-year programme) held in April-May were announced early this month. He added that the university's negligence could cost him his LLM seat in Mumbai, or other states or even abroad. 
 
 A university official said if the student has attempted all the papers and still marked absent it, could be a rare case. “Since there is no precedence, we may have to study the case and then decide on what relief could be extended,” said the official. The university is likely to devise a formula to dole out average marks in the 1,600 missing papers on Tuesday.
 
 Bhankharia, however, said that he would not want the university to take into account an average marks of all his semesters. “Final year is usually easier than the second year. My papers were easy. In fact, in one of the papers I had taken supplement too. It will be unfair to take my second year scores into account, as my average will drop to 62% but I was expecting around 68%,” he said, adding that he scored 68% in his semester V. The university may extend the deadline for admission, but he is worried. Finding a solution to his unique problem could take more time, he said.
 
 A senior professor from GLC confirmed that Bhankharia was the topper in the college in the second year. Mrudul Nile, professor in-charge of the helpdesk at the university's examination house, said that they have not come across any such case so far. “This could be the only case. We will look into the matter,” said Nile.
 
