Nagpur: Even after scoring 84% in HSC examination, the dream of Bhandara’s Pragati Motghare to become a doctor came crashing down when she was denied admission to MBBS course under person with disabilities (PWD) quota as her disability amounted to about 80%. Now Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court has come to her rescue by ruling the disability doesn't affect student’s learning capacity and directing the competent authority to grant her admission. “We have a person with physical disability who, on account of technical stipulations, is being denied admission, since percentage of her disability is 80%. It has got no bearing on her learning capacity and thereafter its practical use to administer health aid to patients. We find petitioner couldn’t have been denied treatment as PWD only because percentage of locomotor disability of lower limb exceeds 70%,” Justice Indira Jain ruled.  The court made it clear the respondents had not pointed out any regulation or provision that disqualified any or more disabled candidate from consideration altogether. “No distinction, therefore, could be made in present facts between a student with 50-70% and with 80% disability. It is not pointed out why a doctor should have both legs normal, ie fully functional,” Justice Jain pointed out. She added that the respondents, including State Common Entrance Test Cell and Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER), were duty bound to give petitioner admission in MBBS course. “Though we don’t find respondents at fault in not filling up MBBS seat provisionally, no seat is available to accommodate the petitioner. MCI needs to be approached and if it permits, a seat can be provided to her. When administration prescribed 75 seats for PWD, only 12 could be filled in,” Justice Jain remarked. Though Pragati was denied admission in PWD category, she was found eligible for general seat. She suffered amputation above knee and was diagnosed as “disabled to the extent of 60%” on September 21, 2011. This was temporary determination and on March 14, 2012, same board determined her disability at 70% permanently. The 18-year-old cleared HSSC examination in 2016-17 and secured 547/600 marks (84%). She appeared in NEET-UG-2017 and secured overall rank was 331124 and category rank at 31357. Motghare claimed she secured third position among girls students in Vidarbha region.  She was examined by competent authority for admission percentage of her disability was declared to be 80%. It was pointed out that because of this variance, petitioner obtained certificate again from the competent authority which determined disability to be 80% only. In merit list, her name was placed at No 23 and was found ineligible for admission in PWD category.