MUMBAI: Call it the   effect. A growing   fad among Indian males is driving strong sales in facial fuzz colouring products. While most consumer sectors are reeling under the demonetisaton effect, the beard colouring segment has registered a strong double-digit growth in calendar year 2016. The trend also suggests that the earlier metrosexual look is passe.

 With hair colour biggies L’Oreal and   absent from this segment, the budding field has been left open for Bigen, the only national player in beard colours. The Bigen brand is owned by Hoyu Co of   and exclusively marketed and distributed in India by J L Morison India. Bigen Men’s Beard Color grew at 40% year on year (YoY), which is double the rate at which its hair colour business is growing. A year ago, beard colours grew at an average of 20%. On the other hand, the average growth of the hair colour industry YoY is around 8%.
 
 Mazhar Patel, group brand manager, JL Morison India, said: “The growing population of men sporting beards these days has resulted in a spurt in beard colour sales. The metrosexual man is slowly fading away; the rugged look is in which has helped this segment grow rapidly.” The trend is gradually pulling global players to enter the fray. Samir Srivastav, CEO, Jean-Claude Biguine (JCB) India, said they were close to tying up with leading Italian male grooming manufacturers to introduce beard colours here.
 
 “Today, when genders are dissolving faster than you can say man, beards have emerged as the go-to style to reclaim ‘manhood’. It gives men the opportunity to express themselves and assert their ‘manliness’,” said Michel Balthazar, creative manager for JCB Salons. He said that JCB was witnessing a large number of males asking for the next level of beard services. Over 30% of JCB’s client base comprises males, and the segment is expanding.
 
 An offshoot of men sporting beards will be the challenge posed to razor firms.A few years ago, Gillette had launched `Shave India' and `Women Against Lazy Stubble' campaigns to promote sales. According to Karthik Srivatsan, country marketing manager at Gillette India, whether clean-shaven or sharply bearded, Gillette razors have an important role to play in men's facial grooming needs. “Indian men are much more conscious about the way they look and are more involved in their grooming regimen today . Facial styling has become a key part of men's grooming and we see that men are more open to experimenting with different styles.At Gillette, the consumer is at the heart of everything we do. Hence, we will enable men not only to be clean shaven but also sport various facial styles when they wish to.“
 
 Gillette appears to be betting on styling products with which men can also trim their beard in addition to shaving.
 
 
