BHOPAL: National carrier, Air India faced with persistent demands and long waiting list of passengers flying to Delhi has decided to operate an Airbus A-320 daily evening on   sector from February 20. The Airbus aircraft will replace the A-319 with 122-seater. Airbus will help in increasing the capacity of passengers from 122 to 1687. 

 Currently only Jet Airways and Air India operate from the state capital. That too, the two airlines have cancelled their afternoon flights owing to re-carpeting work of runway. The re-carpeting work is being carried out between 10 am and 56 pm and will continue till April. This has left passengers with very little choice and they were dependent only on the morning and evening flights to go to Delhi but the waitlist were quite high.
 
  Air India sources said that the airline has been planning to connect Bengaluru with Bhopal from this winter. “There has been long pending demand from both IT professionals and students to connect Bhopal with IT city Bengaluru. The flight for Begaluru most probably will start from October 2017,” said an official of Air India. 
 
 The Airbus aircraft will take off from Delhi at 7.05 pm and reach Bhopal at 8.25 pm. From Bhopal to Delhi, AI-438 will take off at 9.15 pm to reach Delhi at 11 pm. 
 
 Air India (MP and CG) manager, Vishrut Acharya told TOI that Airbus with 168-seater for Delhi will be available for passengers in the evening daily. “It was noticed that there has been a long wait-list of air travellers on Delhi-Bhopal-Delhi sector. 
 
 Acharya said the decision to introduce Airbus from Bhopal was taken recently by the CMD, Air India, Ashiwini Lohani during his visit to the state capital. “In a meeting with the travel agents, there was a huge demand that the present aircraft A-319 with 122 seats to Delhi was insufficient. Lohani had directed officials to operate an Airbus in place of the existing aircraft in the evening. This will help provide connectivity to international passengers flying from Delhi,” said the manager. 
 
 Talking about the suspended afternoon flight owing to re-carpeting work of runway, Acharya said, the Air India is going to resume its services on Delhi-Bhopal-Delhi sector after the completion of re-carpeting work. Owing to runway work at the Bhopal airport for past six months one flight each of Jet Airways and Air India are not operating, as there is no movement of flights from 11 am to 5 pm. Bhopal currently is connected only to Delhi, Mumbai, Raipur, Pune and Hyderabad with limited number of flights. 
 
 In past two years, Bhopal had lost connectivity with important destinations like Ahmedabad, Lucknow, Hyderabad and Chennai. Private airlines Jet and SpiceJet that started operations to Chennai and Hyderabad and Kolkata had withdrawn their services to these sectors after few months citing operational reasons and low occupancy.
 
