NEW DELHI: BJP reacted strongly to   Banerjee’s allegation of “vendetta politics” with the party’s national secretary in-charge of West Bengal, Siddharth Nath Singh, saying the “sins” of her rule were now being exposed by the law. 

 “She (Mamata) should stop making these baseless allegations. The rule of law is the same for everybody. My question is why only TMC leaders are being found to be involved in all the chit fund scams across the state,” the senior BJP member said. “We do not even want to answer such baseless allegations. She is scared after the arrest of (Sudip) Bandopadhyay and that is why she is levelling these baseless allegations,” Singh said. 
 
 He said CBI is working on the direction of the Supreme Court as 17 lakh poor people had been looted in West Bengal by the perpetrators of the chit fund scam. Singh said Mamata being a “constitutional authority” should cooperate with the probe. 
 
 Mamata, on her part, said it was the duty of the Centre, Sebi and RBI to keep a check on ponzi schemes in which they have “failed completely”. 
 
 Reacting to Bandopadhyay’s arrest, Union power minister Piyush Goyal, who was in Kolkata, said: “If someone has done any wrong, he will get caught. If someone tries to cover his or her own wrongdoing by baseless allegations..... We never interfered in investigative affairs.” 
 
 Union minister Babul Supriyo, whose name was dragged into the scam by arrested TMC MP Tapas Pal, said, “Mamata Banerjee has been rattling off names of those in her party against whom CBI notices are expected which means she is aware of who are involved in the scam and hence she should give those names to the Centre”. 
 
 The Enforcement Directorate (ED) had recently attached assets to the tune of Rs 1,250 crore, including eight hotels and a Rolls Royce luxury car, in connection with its money laundering probe in the   chit fund scam case. The agency had registered an FIR against the firm, its Chairman Gautam   and others in 2014 under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). 
 
 Kundu was arrested last year and is currently in judicial custody. The group had allegedly floated a total of 27 companies for running the alleged chit fund operations out of which only half-a-dozen were active. It has been alleged that the firm had floated schemes promising inflated returns on investments between 8 and 27 per cent to gullible investors in various states. The ED has pegged the scam at Rs 15,000 crore.
 
