JAIPUR:   was acquitted of   by the   on Monday. Nagar was arrested by the CBI on October 25, 2013 on charges of raping a   after allegedly calling her to his   in the Civil Lines here on the pretext of giving her a government job.

 The court of additional district judge (Jaipur district) Prahlad Rai Sharma gave Nagar the benefit of doubt while freeing him of the charges on Monday. “The court gave Nagar benefit of doubt and acquitted him. We fought the case on grounds that the complainant was under political and crimi nal pressure to frame the then minister,“ said V K Bali and Purushottam Sharma, lawyers of Nagar.
 
 The complainant, on the other hand, told reporters that she would appeal against the trial court judgment. Nagar's lawyers, however, said that before accu sing the Congressman of rape charges, the woman made a similar police complaint against other persons wherein in she talked about a conspiracy to frame some ministers and influential people. “We were able to prove in court that Nagar was framed under part of that conspiracy ,“ said Nagar's lawyers.
 
 Bali said the DNA test reports submitted against Nagar were obtained from a lab that was not authorized and the person who wrote the report was unqualified to do so. “The crime was said to be committed on a day when thousands of people had gathered at Nagar's residence for an election meeting. His family too was at home then. How could he have sexually assaulted the woman when so many people were around?“ said Bali.
 
 The crime was allegedly committed on September 11, 2013 and its FIR was registered on September 13, 2013 at the directions of a local court. The city po lice initially declined to accept the woman's complaint against Nagar, who was then minister for dairy , khadi and rural industries. Nagar used to flaunt his proximity to the then chief minister Ashok Gehlot.
 
 Such was Nagar's influence in the state government and the Congress's state government and the Congress's state unit then that the party's central leadership had to intervene to accept women organisations' demand for a CBI probe, expel him from state cabinet and suspend him from the party's primary membership. The matter was finally handed over to the CBI on October 9, 2013 and Nagar was arrested on October 25, 2013. The Congressman was in jail since then.
 
