NEW DELHI: Believe it or not, a leading hospital in the city has hired 36   to operate  , a task usually performed by OT technicians. According to sources, the hospital has failed to recruit the required number of technicians due to certain procedural hurdles.

 Lok Nayak hospital, the biggest state-run healthcare centre in Delhi, was given 35 ventilators by the government in March following a series of TOI reports highlighting lack of the life support system in the institute.
 
 But, most of these machines had been lying unused for past of three months since the hospital did not have the required manpower to run them. “OT technicians can be recruited through the   (DSSB) only. We cannot hire them. So, we have appointed 36 junior residents (JRs) to do the job on a temporary basis,” Dr J C Passey, medical director of Lok Nayak hospital, told TOI. 
 
 He added that the newly recruited were being trained under the anaesthesia division and all ventilators would be functional within five to six days.
 
 Junior residents are fresh medical graduates. Senior doctors at the hospital, who did not want to be identified, said these medicos cannot fill up for OT technicians or anaesthetists. “The government should have ensured enough manpower before buying these machines,” said a doctor. He added that Lok Nayak hospital was facing a shortage of anaesthetists and OT technicians, the staff who operate ventilators. 
 
 TOI had on December 10 last year reported how attendants of critically-ill patients at Lok Nayak hospital were being given ambu-bags to resuscitate them as there weren’t enough ventilators.
 
 One of the patients, Nizamuddin from Dadri in UP who had been kept on ambu-bag—or manual resuscitation device—post-surgery, died a day later. The incident appeared to have jolted the government into action. CM   said new machines would be procured in 15-20 days.
 
 Three months later, 125 ventilators find their way to Delhi government hospitals. Of them, 35 were given to Lok Nayak hospital. Sources said except Lok Nayak, the machines at other hospitals were fully functional. 
 
 
