Madurai: The Madurai bench of the Madras high court has ordered status quo on land acquisition for establishing SIPCOT’s industrial park on 1,253.24 acres at Kalanivasal and Thiruvelangudi villages in Karaikudi taluk of Sivaganga district. Justice R Mahadevan passed the interim order on the writ petition filed by A Solaimalai.

 The petitioner told the court that Sivaganga district revenue officer had on June 7 issued a notification under the Tamil Nadu Acquisition of Land for Industrial Purposes Act seeking to acquire land for establishing the new   park. This included the petitioner’s land to some extent, his counsel said.
 
 Stating that no rules were followed in acquiring land and the district revenue officer lacked jurisdiction to issue notification, the counsel said the state government had no right to acquire land under the act. Parliament had enacted the Right to Fair Compensation Transparency in Land Acquisition Rehabilitation and Re Settlement Act, 2013 which overrode all legislations concerning acquisition for any purpose including industrialisation and development of essential infrastructural facilities. 
 
 The said enactment came into effect on January 1, 2014. Hence, the state enactment (the Tamil Nadu Acquisition of Land for Industrial Purposes Act) became void, the counsel said. He further said that the state government had acquired lands of individuals based on the state enactment, against which cases were filed before both the Madras high court principal seat and its bench in Madurai. On those cases, the courts had ordered status quo with regard to possession of lands. 
 
 Besides, the land now identified for the industrial park project was adjacent to the Velankudi reserved forest. 
 
 As per the Environmental Protection Act and its related Rules, environmental impact assessment and clearance was must to acquire land for more than 500 hectares. For the proposed project, about 507.38 hectares (1253.24 acres) of land was going to be acquired for which no clearance was sought, the counsel said. It led the court to order status quo on the proceedings.
 
 
