IMPHAL: Campaigning for the the first phase of polls in 38 constituencies ended at 3pm on Thursday. State chief electoral officer (CEO) Vivek Kumar Dewangan said elaborate arrangements have been made to ensure free, fair and peaceful polls. Polling officials have started leaving for the interior areas of   district since Wednesday, Dewangan said. Polling personnel for the remaining districts will start making their way to their respective polling stations from Friday.

 All district magistrates have issued prohibitionary orders under Section 144 of CrPc, banning unlawful assembly and public meetings for the next 48 hours, the CEO said. For the first phase, 280 companies of central armed police forces are being used. On the political stage, ruling   and challenger BJP wrapped up their campaigns with last-minute efforts to woo the voters.
 
 BJP rolled out audio-visual vans highlighting the "failures" of the 15-year Congress government. Playing the saffron party's election song, 'Thambal', the bus travelled in various parts of   and Imphal West districts. The party is hoping to do well in both districts. BJP's state treasurer Robin Blakie Singh said, "We are confident of victory. Our field reports say there is a BJP wave in both the hills and valley districts." Singh attributed this wave to the wish for a "change" this time, and BJP has emerged as the only viable alternative for change.
 
 The ruling Congress, too, made their last-ditch effort to convince the voters that the party can only protect  's territorial integrity. The party also deployed its vans with loud speakers for the last-day campaign in the city. 
 
 MPCC secretary Sashikanta Potsangbam took potshots at the saffron party, saying that "thambal" in Manipuri literature always depicts great love stories, but they always end tragically. "Like in Manipuri literature, BJP's campaign will also end in defeat. Congress is confident of the fourth consecutive win under the leadership of chief minister Okram Ibobi Singh." Potsangbam praised Ibobi's leadership and argued he is the first Manipuri leader who has been attacked by the country's Prime Minister and home minister. "This only shows how important he is in national politics," he added. As Thursday was the last day of campaign for the first phase, civil society groups also raised various issues to draw the attention of people, candidates and political parties. 
 
