NEW DELHI: The first match of the   Era - in case you missed it, he's now full-time captain following  's resignation from the captaincy - begins on Sunday in Pune with the first of three ODIs against England. History and form points to India, who under Kohli have risen to the pinnacle of the ICC Test Championship and who less than a month ago thrashed England 4-0 in the Test series.

 India are ranked third in the ICC ODI Championship and after this series do not play any more ODIs before the Champions Trophy in June, where Kohli will hope to defend the title, and   has stated that experimentation is not the way to go here. 
 
 Fifth-ranked England, under the returning  , will back themselves to upset the home team because of their limited-overs form since the 2015 World Cup, which spans 19 wins in 31 completed ODIs. Morgan will not look at the fact that England's last ODI series win in India was more than 30 years ago, instead putting faith in his pool of players, many of whom helped the team to the final of last year's ICC World Twenty20 here in India.
 
 On a side note, there will be plenty of attention on Dhoni, now playing without the captaincy pressure for the first time since 2007, and the returning   who has not played an ODI for over three years. Will Dhoni wield his bat freely, sending the home fans into a tizzy? Can he team up with Yuvraj and forge a partnership like the pair did so often in ODIs before? 
 
 
  Maharashtra Cricket Association Stadium, Pune
 
 
  January 15, 2017
 
 
  13:30 IST
 
 
  Clear and pleasant conditions with a maximum temperature of 31 degrees
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Kumble, India's coach, confirmed that   will be used as an opener in the series in the absence of Rohit Sharma. That leaves the management to pick one of Shikhar Dhawan or KL Rahul, who are both returning to the ODI team from injuries, as Rahane's partner. Dhawan was sluggish in the warm-up loss to the England XI in Mumbai, needing 84 balls for his 63. Rahul has Test and first-class form on his side, and when you consider that he was Man of the Match and Man of the Series in his previous ODI series - his debut one - then he appears the likelier choice. 
 
 In the middle order, Yuvraj looks set for his first ODI since December 2013 having cracked a fifty for India A this week, which leaves one of Manish Pandey and Kedar Jadhav - who played India's last ODI series - fighting for one spot. The inclusion of Ravindra Jadeja and R Ashwin, who were both rested for the New Zealand series in October, makes Amit Mishra's place uncertain even though he took five wickets in his last ODI. Hardik Pandya, Umesh Yadav and Jasprit Bumrah are straightforward picks. 
 
 
  1 Ajinkya Rahane, 2 KL Rahul, 3 Virat Kohli (capt) 4 Yuvraj Singh, 5 MS Dhoni (wk), 6 Manish Pandey/Kedar Jadhav, 7 Hardik Pandya, 8 Ravindra Jadeja, 9 R Ashwin, 10 Umesh Yadav, 11 Jasprit Bumrah
 
 
 
 
 England used Sam Billings and Jonny Bairstow at No 3 in each of the warm-ups. Billings helped beat India A with 93 off 85 balls and Bairstow made 64 off 65 balls in the second game. And yet the one-down spot should rightfully go to Joe Root who is back after the birth of his first child. How then do Billings and Bairstow fit in? Ben Stokes and Jos Buttler are automatic selections, and Moeen Ali, despite scores of 0 and 1 in the warm-ups, should get the nod because he offers a 10-over bowling option. Chris Woakes, David Willey and Jake Ball look set to keep Liam Plunkett out. 
 
 Probable XI: 1 Jason Roy, 2 Alex Hales, 3 Joe Root, 4 Eoin Morgan (capt), 5 Ben Stokes, 6 Jos Buttler (wk), 7 Moeen Ali, 8 Chris Woakes, 9 Adil Rashid, 10 David Willey, 11 Jake Ball
 
 
 
 
 "The side that we'd had over the past two years have done some very special things and they have not played ODI cricket in India together. Beating India would be a great achievement and it's a huge challenge, but I wouldn't write us off. They are not unbeatable, but we will have to play very, very well in order to beat them." - 
 
 
 "At any given point in time, we would like to put together the best team on the park. We would like to do that considering that each game is like a knockout in the Champions Trophy as well. So that's the kind of mindset the players have. That's the intent that the team will also have." - 
 
 
