GURGAON: In his debut music video Dil Diyan Gallan, with over a lakh views,   (real name:  ), a popular local actor, is seen romancing two women at the same time in a palatial house, and to also keep in touch with many women, over an array of cellphones. 

 His   probably took cue from  , and decided to use the pictures he uploaded on his   He copied those photos and started a new account, where he proclaimed the previous account had been hacked and that he is now using the new account.
 
 Soon after, the impersonator started approaching women he had befriended using the fake account, getting their phone numbers and talking to them on WhatsApp. He got bolder, asking them to send him their pictures, and even convinced some to send their naked pictures.
 
 Almost a month later, Tanish was alerted of the fake profile by a friend, who was approached by the impersonator to send him her naked pictures. He approached Gurgaon police, who sent the complaint to the cyber crime unit, to examine its veracity.
 
 A cyber crime official said this was a case of identity theft and that they had recommended an FIR to be registered against the con-artist by the concerned police station. On Saturday, the FIR was duly registered under sections 419 of IPC and 66D of IT Act, at the Sector 5 police station. "The technical investigation into the case is almost complete, and we'll offer whatever help the police station needs in this regard," said an official, confirming the authenticity of Bhat's complaint.
 
  Bhat, who is a professional model and actor, had uploaded a number of pictures on his profile and   pages, which the impersonator used to lure unsuspecting women using the fake profile. The actor, who originally belongs to Ramban in Jammu, had come to Delhi for his studies, and started modelling at the age of 20. He currently lives in Gurgaon. 
 
 He did a side role in a Telugu film and a cameo in the biopic of former Indian test cricket captain, M S Dhoni: The untold story.
 
  Speaking to TOI , Bhat said, "From what I know, the impersonator was talking to 5-7 women. I managed to get screenshots of conversations he was having with my fans, and submitted it as evidence to the cops. I was told the cyber crime cell had approached Facebook to track down the impersonator." 
 
 
