KOLKATA: Probing into the Ponzi muddle,   has now decided to crack down on a few more “influential ones“ who had helped Rose Valley boss Gautam Kundu siphon off crores from the group's coffers. The central agency that arrested two Trinamool leaders in last two months is likely to interrogate at least three politically influential persons in the state soon.

 Sources in the agency said that three-four “influential ones“ in the state's political circuit are on the radar and are likely to be summoned this month. “We have gathered inputs which point towards involvement of at least three persons. We might interrogate them this month,“ said a CBI officer. The investigators have reasons to believe that the “influential ones“ in the political circuit have not only benefited from the “largesse“ of the Rose Valley Boss Gautam Kundu, they have also helped him spread network, mop up money and stash that.
 
 Earlier, Trinamool MPs   and Sudip Bandyopadhyay were arrested by the agency in connection with the scam.
 
 The agency is also putting in place a larger team for the Rose Valley scam. The case is being monitored by an investigating officer who is assisted by a deputy superintendent level officer. . “There are efforts to engage few more investigating officers apart from some professionally trained ones. So far we are dealing with cases related to at least 30 Ponzi firms,“ the official said.
 
 Enforcement Directorate, on the other hand, questioned an entry operator last week who allegedly helped stash Rose Valley money in some of the company directors' accounts.
 
 Meanwhile, a judicial magistrate court in Alipore on Monday ordered commissioner of   in Tripura to arrest Ramlal Goswami, one of the main accused in the case. Goswami, a Tripura native who was a director of the group, is reportedly absconding. “The fourth judicial magistrate of the Alipore Court on Monday granted bail to Kundu in a case registered by SFIO after the central agency's lawyer failed to appear for the third consecutive day,“ Kundu's lawyer   said.
 
