NEW DELHI: The government is hopeful that the long pending demand for Jat quota could be met in the next six months after successful negotiations with community leaders saw the proposed protest march to Parliament on Monday being put off.

 Talks with Jat leaders held in Delhi’s Haryana Bhawan recently saw an agreement on the process by which the demand for quota under the Other Backward Classes category could be arrived at after government negotiators forcefully pointed out that previous attempts had failed due to legal infirmities.
 
 The proposal of central government representatives that a newly constituted National Commission for Backward Classes will consider a survey commissioned to assess the Jat claim to OBC status found favour. Once the NCBC takes a view on such a survey, its findings would be placed before the Centre for action.
 
 Sources said the government estimates this process to be concluded in a six-month time frame. The talks also saw Jat leaders accepting the Centre’s offer to examine and review cases filed against community members during the violence that accompanied quota protests in Haryana last year.
 
 Minister of state for law P P Chaudhary, who played a key role in the negotiations, told TOI, “It was explained to Jat leaders that the illegal manner in which quota was announced previously (by the Congress government in Haryana) led to the current situation where the demand is unfulfilled.” 
 
 It was made clear that cases of heinous crimes would not be taken back but the Haryana government would ensure that no “injustice” was done to persons facing action, including court cases, for the stir.
 
 There is relief in the government that the proposed march to Parliament was put off as it could have presented a serious law and order situation with reports of a Jat mobilisation and an equally determined police response with both Haryana and Delhi police gearing up with barricades, water cannons and earth movers.
 
 Jat leaders have also demanded that the quota be legislated and placed under the ninth schedule to make it immune from judicial review. The government also agreed to facilitate compensation for persons who were permanently disabled in the violence that occurred in February 2016.
 
 The government is understood to have made it plain that it is not ready to take recourse to any short cuts that will run into trouble in courts. The BJP win in the UP assembly polls and the negligible effect of Jat discontent on the results has also improved the possibility of the vexed Jat quota getting resolved.
 
 
