The announcement of poll dates for five states -Uttar Pradesh, Punjab,  , Goa and Manipur -takes the spiralling battle between BJP and its adversaries into a crucial phase that promises to be a test and an opportunity for PM Narendra Modi to expand and consolidate his power, but co uld provide a launch pad for the revival of the opposition should he fail.

 The elections will start on February 4 and the results for the five states will be out on March 11. The stakes are high for major players BJP and  , regional heavyweights like Samajwadi Party, Bahujan Samaj Party and Akalis, as well as ambitious political upstart AAP. The elections coincide with the mid-way mark for the Modi government and a satisfactory performance will provide the PM with the necessary reassurance to persist with his high-risk initiatives in the second half of the term. The outcome is likely to be seen, in particular, as a referendum on the Modi government's audacious demonetisation which dwarfed the dramatic `surgical strike' inside Pakistan-controlled territory. A favourable verdict can only encourage Modi to continue with his promised campaign against corruption and push what is often referred to as the politics of muscular nationalism.
 
 Success in assembly elections will also help BJP in picking a successor of its choice to Pranab Mukherjee in Rashtrapati Bhavan with improved numbers in the electoral college. Conversely , a setback will embolden opponents, lead to a more fractious Parliament, and might limit the government's space to manoeuvre.
 
 For Congress, the polls are yet another chance to revive its relevance as the only national-level challenger to BJP. It has failed to utilise opportunities post-2014 and another abortive challenge will bring into even greater question its claim to being the “principal opposition“.
 
 The party that Rahul Gandhi now very clearly helms-with his mother receding into the background--runs the risk of being demoted to the level of a regional player, even if with a larger footprint. Congress expects to do well in Punjab and a win will be a morale booster. However, it needs to do better in   too to protect its lead over other players on the `secular' side of the fence.
 
 The last-minute decision of its government in Manipur to carve out new districts may help improve Congress's chances in a state where it seemed weakly placed till a few months ago, whereas the arrival of AAP in Goa could undercut it by disrupting the state's bipolar polity.
 
 Congress's loss, especially in Punjab, could turn out to be a gain for AAP which sees Punjab as an arena that can help it realise its unfulfilled aspiration of controlling a full-scale state, one with powers over police, and not just a souped-up Union Territory like Delhi.A win in Punjab should establish Delhi CM Kejriwal as an important factor in the secular arena at Congress's expense, possibly to BJP's chagrin.
 
 UP CM Akhilesh Yadav could be another beneficiary if Rahul Gandhi fails to deliver. He has already supplanted his ageing father Mulayam Singh Yadav as the leader of Samajwadi Party and a `dangal' where he not only gets the better of his father but also Rahul will propel him into the same league as regional `secular' chieftains like Nitish Kumar and Mamata Banerjee. He could overtake them because of the sheer landmass of UP with its share of 80 Lok Sabha seats, and also because Muslims would be a big factor if he does manage to defy the odds.
 
 The polls coincide with a poor spell for Mayawati. After losing UP in 2012, she was routed by BJP in the Lok Sabha polls, failing to even open her account.The build-up to the polls saw her facing `ticket-for-cash' allegations which, while not necessarily affecting her hold over her Dalit devotees, could reduce traction among neutrals whose swing could be key in a tight contest. Moreover, Akhilesh's hardsell of himself as an antidote to the rough politics that has defined SP under Mulayam and uncle Shivpal can be a draw for those who admired the way   dealt with `goonda raj' in her previous tenure.
 
 She seems to recognize the threat and has responded to it by resorting to swift manoeuvres, the most important being the record number of tickets she's given Muslims, higher than even Dalits. Her old rival, Mulayam, is already seen as being past his sell-by date even by those who are wary of writing off politicians. Mulayam has in the past defied his obituaries, especially in the wake of his rout in the 1991 polls. He bounced back within months, winning grudging admiration from his opponents. But the wrestler from Saifai, who could not be pinned down by rivals, has been felled by a feud in the family with son Akhilesh pulling off an impressive insurrection.
 
 The coming elections mark the fourth round of state polls since BJP surprised others and itself by winning a majority in the 2014 Lok Sabha polls.The party under Modi and his trusted associate Amit Shah won the first handsomely by triumphing in Maharashtra, Haryana and Jharkhand. It was wiped out in Delhi and worsted by the unlikely alliance of Nitish Kumar and Lalu Prasad in Bihar. However, just when its supremacy was being called into question, BJP managed to bag Assam in defiance of the demographic of a state that has more than 30% Muslims and opened its account in the Kerala assembly while improving upon its performance in Bengal.
 
 The elections provide another opening to the party to stamp its political supremacy . Its bid for UP will depend on how demonetization plays out with voters in a state where well-entrenched caste loyalties have been a stubborn barrier to its plans. But saffron strategists are hopeful that Modi's popularity and the organizational prowess of Amit Shah besides the populist message of demonetization will help break through this time.
 
 The split in SP and Mayawati's ambition to corner a chunk of the support of Muslims has raised the prospect of a three-way split in the votes of the minority community which makes up 17% of UP population and has been for 15 years been a hurdle for BJP to regain office in the country's largest state. The party has not declared a CM candidate--a tactic which is an acknowledgement of the absence of leaders who can hold their own against an Akhilesh or a Mayawati and brings out the party's dependence on its talisman Modi. The PM is an LS member from Varanasi and this has raised his personal stake in the fight.
 
 The party seems better placed in Uttarakhand. Five years ago, vicious infighting and sabotage saw it snatching defeat from the jaws of victory . Shah's helmsmanship should reduce the scope of mischief this time. The party can also hope to gain from the incumbency of Congress whose tenure was marked by scams. While it is a junior ally in Punjab, BJP will hope the unpopular Akalis can still to eke out a win. A defeat for a government in which it happens to be a partner will rub off on the BJP too. Its leadership fears that the Akalis could be languishing in third spot behind Congress and AAP but hope that a division in the opposition vote might open a window for the Badals to hang in. It will not be unhappy if the state throws up a hung House.
 
 BJP hopes to retain office in Goa despite previous CM Manohar Parikar's shift to Delhi as defence minister and a rebellion by the hardline RSS faction.The continuing alliance with a section of Catholics and the arrival of AAP as a player is expected to help the party by splitting the `secular' vote.
 
 It was confident about its performance in Manipur too but the ethnic conflict over the creation of new districts by Congress could throw a spanner in the works.
 
 
