LUCKNOW:   was no less than a nightmare come alive for patients and attendants. Carrying medical support devices in hands, every person coming out of the building was a face of helplessness and fear in their own way.

 Shivangi had nearly fainted seeing her six-year old gasp for breath. Standing outside the Lari Cardiology, she prayed for a miracle. “My daughter Shivalika was suffering with respiratory problem and was on oxygen when we were told to rush outside and go to Lari Cardiology. But here they are not admitting her because the beds are full,” she cried. 
 
 Cousins and friends of Afroz who had suffered a shoulder injury realised that they would waste time looking for a bed so they carried him on a chair. Walking for over half a kilometer, they hired a tempo to reach a private nursing home in Nakkhas. “I have had an eye to eye contact with death here. I shall never come back again,” the teenager stated.
 
 Deepanshi also pledged never to come back again to  . She was away to fetch some food for her mother-in-law who was attending the three-year old son Monu when the fire took place. Not allowed to go inside and rescue her son, the inconsolable mother kept crying till the attendant of the neighbouring bed said that the son was safe. She reunited with the baby after firemen left. “This placed is jinxed,” she said. 
 
 Arif, a youth in his 20s had suffered several multiple fractures in a road accident. His old and ailing parents were seen begging passersby to help them lift and transport their son to the Centenary hospital. “We don’t know where centenary hospital is located,” the mother said. “I feel very guilty for putting my parents in this crisis,” said Arif.
 
 Some of the patients and attendants remained thankful. Mohan Kumar who was getting his father treated in the medicine department said, “God has given a new life to us.” Many of them thanked firemen and good Samaritans. “I will pray for the boys who fetched her out of the trouble,” said Beena Devi, an elderly woman who was admitted to medicine emergency.
 
