KOLKATA: Twenty-three days after accident victim Sanjay Roy died at  , where he had been transferred after an eight-day stay at  , Apollo director Pritha Reddy met chief minister   at Nabanna on Monday. Reddy assured the chief minister that the country's largest healthcare conglomerate would mend its way and deliver a better and 'humane' healthcare service. 

 Roy had been shifted to SSKM as his family could not bear the cost of treatment at Apollo.
 
 "I talked to the chief minister for more than one hour in a very cordial environment. She pointed out some areas where we need improvement and we will definitely look into it. If there is a need for any rectification, we will do it with a smiling face. We need to be more caring so far as emergency is concerned. When it comes to treatment of patients we need to improve the quality of care," Reddy told the media.
 
 The chief minister had earlier said that Apollo representatives wanted to meet her and she also indicated that the government would soften its stand if the private bodies look into the problem areas. Reddy, who was sorry for whatever has happened, said, "For the last one and a half month, we could not provide the treatment we used to give to people. If there is any deficiency on our part, we will definitely rectify that."
 
 Follwoing the two-pronged probe against Apollo - by the police as well as by a committee set up by Swasthya Bhawan - Dr Rupali Basu, resigned from the post of vice president and CEO (East) of   Group. The health department team has found evidences of medical negligence and tampering of documents. The police probe is still on and senior officials, including Basu, are bieng summoned every now and then. 
 
 Assuring that Apollo - that has been providing treatment to over 9 million people in Bengal - will work in tandem with the newly formed commission, Reddy said on Monday, "I love   and for the last 30 years we have working here with repute and Apollo is committed to give the best treatment to its patients."
 
 On February 16, Dankuni resident Sanjay Roy met with an accident and was admitted to Apollo with fractured ribs and an injury in his liver. He underwent treatment there for eight days and his family had been asked to pay over Rs 7 lakh. After that the family members shifted him to SSKM, where he died within a few hours. The incident happened two days after the CM asked the private clinical establishments to be more humane.
 
 
