PATNA: Amid the deepening crisis in the Grand Alliance, RJD chief   on Sunday made a veiled attack on Bihar chief minister   and said those who are confused always get betrayed. “Jo confusion me rahta hai woh bar bar dhoka khata hai (those who are confused get betrayed again and again).” He also said people of Bihar are politically aware and cannot be fooled easily. 

 Addressing the RJD and   MLAs before the presidential election, Lalu minced no word and said, “An important part of the Mahagatbandhan (JDU) will be voting for BJP presidential candidate tomorrow.” 
 
 Nitish’s JD(U) has decided to vote for BJP-led NDA candidate Ram Nath Kovind.
 
 Lalu, who was accompanied by his minister sons Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and Tej Pratap Yadav, said the Mahagatbandhan was formed to fight the fascist and communal forces and to cut the BJP roots in Bihar. Hence, his party was firm on the ideology it followed. 
 
 Though the 17 opposition parties have expressed their desire to vote for their presidential pick Meira Kumar, Lalu said, “Not 17 but 18 opposition parties would cast their vote in favour of Meira, the daughter of Bihar. Lalu was referring to JD(U) as the 18th party as the RJD expects cross voting by some of the Nitish’s MLA in favour of Meira.
 
 Lalu even took a swipe on Prime Minister   and BJP chief Amit Shah saying they spent crores of rupees in Bihar assembly election, but failed to win. “Now they are targeting my family, Akhilesh Yadav and Aam Aadmi Party. But I want to tell them that we are not afraid of their empty threats,” said Lalu, adding, “The country is facing Emergency-like situation. Modi talks of surgical strike, but the real strike was done by Indira Gandhi when she divided Pakistan into two parts,” he said.
 
 Congress legislative party leader Sadanand Singh said it was high time all the opposition parties remained united or else the country would slip into the hands of communal forces. “Not only tomorrow, we have to remain united even in future as well,” he said. 
 
 Even Tejashwi said their unity could protect the country against the fascist forces. The meeting was convened by Congress state president Ashok Choudhary.
 
 
