The 2012   gang-rape not only shocked the nation, but was also a turning point in sensitising people about gender violence. Five years later, her story still looms large in people's minds and also continues to inspire artistes to recollect the narrative. For many, the episode changed the way they perform, making their content sharper and more direct. Music, art, theatre... Nirbhaya took centre stage across mediums. After the Supreme Court upheld the death sentence of the four rapists, we spoke to artistes about how the incident has affected them. Also, will their narrative change now that the verdict has been given? The unanimous answer is, “Why would it change? Nirbhaya is not the last   victim in our country.”
 
 
 
 
 When Nirbhaya's incident occurred, the situation was so violent that many didn’t know how to react. We were wondering what kind of art we should present to put forth a women's perspective. Our theatre group presented a production called Punarjani, which was a tale of the umpteen   who die such brutal deaths. The   had a deep influence on the way we react to such assaults, and it still continues to influence us. It triggered the sea change society has undergone since. I am unsure if the verdict will help change the perspective, as I think our system is not well equipped to address the complicated mindsets of people.
 
 
  
 
 
 Kaali Natakam, a Malayalam play written by Sajitha Madathil was staged in Trivandrum, Kochi and Kozhikode recently. Though the play was based on a myth it connects with the contemporary issues of women in our society, says Sajitha. “The Kaali in the play has mentions about sexual brutality faced by women from men. For mother goddess Kaali, the iron sword is her strength with which she defeated and killed the evil asura Darikan to safeguard the world. In the myth she becomes calm after killing the evil spirit but in the present world the rapists inserted an iron rod inside the vagina of the victim, leaving her full of rage,” says Sajitha adding that she made the production keeping in mind the plight of sisters Jisha and Soumya.” However, she doesn't believe that a death sentence is an answer to the crimes. “The problem with death penalty is that in the future, the rapists will kill the victims fearing that they will be caught,” she says.
 
 
 
 
 
 In 2015, veteran magician Gopinath Muthukad presented a magic act SHE as part of a women empowerment campaign by Kerala Women Development Corporation. “Though the magic act was based on the poem Magic by K Sachidanandan, it communicated the plight of women who fall prey to men’s ego. The act threw light on the cruelties faced by the women in our society through the story of Kadeeja, a girl who grew up with dreams like every other girl, but was killed by a magician as he questioned his tricks,” he says, adding that it was not just Nirbhaya, but Soumya and Jisha too faced a brutal death at the hands of men. “We will never put an end to the shows based on this theme as assaults on women are increasing day by day. This only ignites the fire or protest within us and we are forced to do more of such acts,” he says.
 
 
 
 
 
 For P S Jalaja, her art was her means of expressing her protest against rapists. “A state of unrest had prevailed when Nirbhaya succumbed to her injuries, and it prompted me to etch the fresco at the Kochi biennale. There was so much agony inside me that I spent two entire days and nights working on it. My work depicted a bruised baby girl crying aloud and in utter shock at being born in a world where such incidents happen,” she says.
 
 The 2012 biennale kicked off with her work, as everybody paid homage to the braveheart by lighting candles set before the work. “As an artist, I have never experienced gender disparity within our circles but people who commit such heinous crimes also exist, and that thought affected me a lot. Women's issues are not to be looked at in isolation; be it a calamity or a migrant problem, women are the most affected, and their space is always encroached. Post the  , I don't think there will be a change in the artistic perspective, as parochial thoughts are deeply ingrained in society. An artist's world is full of themes generated within oneself, from outside, by analysing the various social evils plaguing the minds of people.
 
 
 
 
 
 Kannan Nayar, the actor who plays one of the attackers in the play Oru Katha Nadakam says, “I welcome the verdict whole heartedly. Such was the impact of the Nirbhaya case that even school children made it the theme for shows during state youth festivals. Our play sent out a strong message on empowering women, that they shouldn’t panic when they face such incidents in the future. The play which was staged in almost college campuses across the state last year was also a dedication to the Nirbhaya incident. Our idea was that rather than weeping over the fate of an assaulted woman, we should inculcate in our sisters a strong feeling that they are not the feeble ones in our society. Yes, we should educate our men and cultivate in them a habit of respecting women but on the other hand, we should also provide women with defense mechanisms.”
 
 
 
 
 
 -Ram Devineni, creator of the comic book Priya's Shakti, which has a rape survivor as a superhero and was inspired by the Nirbhaya case
 
 I'm happy about the verdict because now at least the girl's family is getting justice. However, I'm not sure that the death sentence will change our society's attitude towards rape and gender violence. Rape is not a legal problem -it is a cultural one. As long as patriarchy is ingrained in people's minds, it will be difficult to put such episodes behind us. Initially, I'd planned a documentary on the subject, but I felt it was an impossible task, so the idea of a comic book emerged. The verdict now means that the case is over, but my association with it shall continue and we will try to sensitise teens about gender violence through the comic book.
 
 
