KOLKATA: The owners of bars and restaurants on national highways in the state might take the panchayat route for survival. There was also strong rumour doing rounds that President Pranab Mukherjee might issue ordinance to resume operation of liquor shops on highways. The   in its order had given some relief to local bodies where population less than 20,000. An SC lawyer has clarified these local bodies would include gram panchayats. Sources said a number of popular bars and restaurants along NH-6 and NH-2, that fall under panchayat area, have identified locations within 220m from the highways.

 Sukhbinder Singh, owner of Sher-E-Punjab in Kolaghat, pointed out it is considering to relocate 220m further from NH-6.“Our location is under a panchayat area. Our understanding of the SC order is for places which have a population of 20,000 or less, and 220m is the cut-off limit. We had acquired some land behind our existing property,“ he added.
 
 However, Singh made it cle ar if is asked to move back 500m off the highway, it would be impossible. “We will shut shop then. We need to acquire agricultural land for shifting that much. Given the land conversion laws now, a lot of statutory norms have to be complied with to run business there. Moreover, we need to build approach roads. That makes the overhead costs non-viable for business,“ Singh said.
 
 According to him, the bar was on expansion mode in the last couple of years. “We had recruited people who have become redundant after the bar was closed down. Our daily sales margin has dipped by nearly 60%. We cannot absorb these losses for long,“ he said.
 
 Munna Pakhira, proprietor of Balaji Inn, a bar-cum-hotel near Singur that came into prominence during the Nano controversy, said he along with some other bar-cum-restaurant owners on Thursday met with excise officials to discuss reopening.“Our bar is located at Singur panchayat area. We have requested government officials to assess the population. If it is less than 20,000, it would be possible for us to relocate,“ he added.
 
 Some other bars on NH-2 or 6, which may not be as popular as   or Balaji, are now are hoping to relocate following the relaxation. Garden Inn located under the Mubarak Chowk panchayat is one of them. “We had 30 staff members here. Ever since the bar shut down on April 1, I have just seven left. Even today , three of my cooks demanded a payment to stay back. Each day , we used to receive at least 150 customers and you could see cars and bikes lined up outside the premises.For the past four days, there have been only a handful,“ said franchise owner Prashanta  .
 
 Luckily for him, he has some land located right behind the present complex -that will beat the 220m deadline set by the SC. “But that would entail I spend several lakhs on construction and I am already making huge losses. But I will still take the plunge if pushed to the wall,“ said Bhuniya.
 
 (With inputs from Saibal Sen, Dwaipayan Ghosh and  )
 
