MANALI: Bringing relief to people upset with the rude behaviour of weather, and bringing cheer to visitors, the tourist town of Manali on Friday received the  . The snowflakes -- falling in the morning and late at evening -- made the tourists scream with delight. Tourists made a beeline to Solang Valley and Kothi to have fun amid snow. Gulaba received nearly 20cm of fresh snow. Kothi and Solang received nearly 15cm of snow. As there was a possibility of tourists being stranded in snow, police restricted the movement of tourist vehicles towards Kothi late in the afternoon. Tourist rush was so high that it caused a traffic jam on the Manali-Solang highway.

 Though the early morning snow could not accumulate and melted away in minutes, the town again experienced snowfall late in the evening. Tourists were still going towards Bahang and Palchan, 8km from Manali, where a thick layer of snow had accumulated on the ground. Amit Ahuja, a tourist from Gurgaon, said they had visited Solang and Gulaba on Thursday, but as it was snowing on Friday, they again visited Kothi and Solang. “We are here for the snow. We are lucky to have seen fresh snowfall. We had fun in the snow until we were fully drenched and shivering with cold. It is an unforgettable moment,” he said.
 
 The fresh snowfall brought cheer among hoteliers as well, who are expecting a heavy tourist rush in the days to come. Manali Hoteliers’ Association president Gajender Thakur said: “It is the blessing of the almighty that we have seen good tourist flow in this week since New Year’s Day. Snow will bring more tourists to Manali. Now, we have enough snow at our tourist places where visitors can have fun.” As butterfly-shaped snowflakes were falling on the ground while this was being written, the town was expecting heavy overnight snowfall. Winter games lovers were also delighted, as slopes of Solang have received enough snow. All   are receiving heavy snow. Kullu-Anni highway has also been blocked at Jalori Pass. The entire Lahaul Valley is also experiencing good snowfall.
 
 Meanwhile, Kullu deputy commissioner Yunus Khan has issued an advisory to tourists and the general public not to go towards   and Jalori Pass. “The meteorological department has warned about heavy snowfall and rain in the next 24 hours. People living in remote areas should take extra precaution. All the departments have been directed to stay alert to deal with any disaster,” he added. Lahaul-Spiti deputy commissioner Vivek Bhatia said rescue posts established on either side of Rohtang Pass to monitor the safe movement of pedestrians in mid-November will be removed on Saturday. “The working staff at Koksar and Marhi posts has been asked to move to their respected offices. It’s snowing heavily, and now both vehicular traffic and pedestrians cannot cross Rohtang, so there is no need of rescue posts.”
 
 Snowfall also started crippling traffic partially in Manali late evening on Friday. A few tourist vehicles were trapped in Solang valley, 13 km from here, after heavy snowfall. The vehicles had started to slip on the road. Some tourists from Manali side were sent to bring the tourists back while some tourists were coming on foot.
 
 Till late 8pm, Manali had received 10cm snow and the snowfall was still continuing.
 
 
