KOCHI: A team of   enquiring into a complaint of   at a   was allegedly attacked by the eatery owner and other shopkeepers on Thursday. 

 According to  , one of their team member was manhandled after they tried to talk to the child. "The boy, a native of West Bengal was 16-year-old as per the Aadhaar card presented by the hotel owner. However, we doubt the age. Moreover, the boy was employed at the hotel violating all rules regarding working hours," said Nirish Antony, Childline Kochi, coordinator. 
 
 According to the Childline, the members visited the hotel after receiving a complaint in the hotline number. A team of four, with three female volunteers and one male volunteer went to verify the allegation of child labour. "The volunteers were asking about the whereabouts of the child when the hotel owner gestured him to run. He escaped through the kitchen and when our volunteer Vyshakh tried to stop him, hotel staffers manhandled him," said Nirish.
 
 The Childline volunteers said they were let off only after the boy ran away. "The child has been missing since. We tried to locate him but he was not at the place, where he was staying," said the Childline coordinator. Childline volunteers also alleged laxity by Elamakkara police. According to  , they have received a complaint of attempted assault. "The volunteers have not specified how they were verbally abused. They didn't ask for police assistance before visiting the hotel," said a police officer.
 
  Paravoor sex scandal: one more arrested 
 
 Crime Branch probing the Paravur sex scandal on Thursday arrested one more person in connection with the case. Anoop of Manickamangalam was arrested on his landing at Nedumbassery from Saudi Arabia. 
 
 The girl's father Sudheer who had donned minor roles in a few Malayalam movies, had raped the girl at their residence while her mother and brother were away. Later he allowed her to be raped by others. As many as 52 cases were registered in connection with the sex racket reported in April 2009. Prosecution had said that more than 150 men abused the girl at various places in Kerala and outside.
 
