NEW DELHI: It took one-and-a-half-months, but the cops were able to crack the blind case in which a 29-year-old woman’s decomposed body, the wrist and throat slit, was found in her   home in south-east Delhi. A married businessman who had struck up a romantic friendship with the woman’s friend was arrested on Sunday for the crime.

 According to police, Sufiyan, a 32-year-old who dealt in Chinese toys, had run up big debts and murdered Pooja, thinking she had a huge amount of money and jewellery at home. The desperate man was also angry because Pooja, whose body was discovered on March 27, had, according to Romil Baaniya, DCP (southeast) “taken a loan of Rs 35,000 from him and wasn’t paying it back”.
 
 The cops were unable to make any headway in the case despite interrogating around 40 suspects, poring through the footage from all nearby CCTVs, and contacting all possible sources of ground intelligence. Interestingly, this blind case was solved by a team led by Rohit Singh, son of encounter specialist ACP Rajbir Singh. Rohit is currently a trainee SHO at  , having cleared his civil services exams last year and joined the IPS. He formed two teams under sub-inspectors Sachin and  , who conducted forensic investigations and initiated advanced technical surveillance.
 
 The investigators zero in on Sufiyan, alias Romi, a resident of Azad Market. On May 14, they received information that Sufiyan was trying to flee the city with his girlfriend, and laid a trap to nab him.
 
 Police said Sufiyan, a regular pub-hopper, had met Pooja and her friend Naina last year while clubbing with his friend Samir. Pooja began to date Samir while Naina began going out with Sufiyan, unaware that the latter was already married.
 
 Six months ago, Pooja and Naina had an altercation, and the two friends went their separate ways, leaving Sufiyan to bear Naina’s expenses in the new house she rented. Taking care of Naina in addition to his wife and child soon left the man in debt. He got into frequent fights with Pooja, who refused to return the loan of Rs 35,000 that he had given her.
 
 From her lavish lifestyle, Sufiyan presumed that Pooja had cash and jewellery at her house. On March 23, he reached Pooja’s house, saying he was sorry for all the quarrels he had had with her. He asked her to close her eyes saying he had a surprise for her. When she did, Sufiyan lunged at her and slit her throat. Then to ensure that his struggling victim died a quick death, he also slit her wrists. After ransacking the house, he left on a rickshaw with some jewellery and money he found in the house.
 
