PATNA: State finance minister   said on Monday that Magadh divisional commissioner would probe into the complaints regarding granting or raising bank loans in the name of some farmers of Chitawkala village in Sherghati block of Gaya district without their knowledge. 

 The probe would be completed in a fortnight. Siddiqui said the government cannot take action against bankers, but if the probe finds irregularities, the banks concerned would be approached for action against the guilty. 
 
 Siddiqui was giving the government’s reply to the starred question of RJD member Vinod Prasad Yadav in the state assembly. 
 
 The farmers concerned — like Bandhu Yadav, Krishna Mandal and Matiya Devi, among others — came to know that bank loans had been raised in their names only after the Sherghati branch of State Bank of India (SBI) served them notices, Yadav said, adding that bankers and middlemen had colluded and siphoned off money through fraudulent loans.
 
 In reply to the starred question of Congress member Ajit Sharma, commercial taxes minister Bijendra Prasad Yadav said Bhagalpur IG would probe into the January 26 incident around Ambai pond under Mojahidpur police station on the issue of removal of an idol installed on its banks. The rumour about the idol removal had led to four-hour road blockade on Bhagalpur-Amarpur road. The police had to cane the agitators causing injuries to several people, Sharma said.
 
 The minister also ordered an inquiry into the quality of fencing around the Maniyari graveyard in Kudhni block of Muzaffarpur district. He ordered the inquiry in reply to the starred question of BJP member Kedar Prasad Gupta.
 
 Besides, in reply to the question of JD(U) member Ravi Jyoti Kumar, the minister said there was no proposal to raise the general limit on the use of 110 litres of fuel per month on a vehicle at a police station. In sensitive areas, including Bhagalpur and Patna, the limit is 175 litres per month. Besides, in the Naxalite-hit zone, the limit is 225 litres per month and it is 200 litres/month in some extremist-hit areas.
 
 In reply to the question of BJP member Nitin Navin, Yadav said complaints regarding the deployment of police personnel posted at river patrolling police station in Patna district in the traffic regulations and as bank guards would be looked into. CM Nitish Kumar had announced opening of river patrolling police station at Maujipur village under Fatuha block of Patna district in 2011. The minister said three cases had so far been lodged at the police station concerned.
 
 
