CHENNAI: The hospitality sector in   has sought the state government to   within the city limits to reopen bars in hotels, after the   gave its nod to the notification of the Chandigarh administration denotifying some highways to facilitate sale of liquor from vends within 500 metres of highways. 

 About 180 hotels shut bars across the state, in the wake the Supreme Court ruling that banned sale of liquor within 500 metres from national and state highways, which came into effect on April 1, 2017. Of these, around 50hotels are in Chennai.
 
 South India Hotels and Restaurants Association (SIHRA) hony. secretary   said that the hospitality sector has taken a heavy beating in Tamil Nadu due to the closure of bars near the highways. "There is a 30%drop in food and beverages business in hotels after the bars were shut. If this scenario continues, I am worried that it may lead to retrenching staff, who were employed in the bars," he said.
 
 He sought the government to immediately come to the rescue of the hospitality sector. “We have sought for an appointment with the chief minister in the regard,” he added.
 
 The apex court’s order on Tuesday is expected to lead other state governments to denotify highways within the cities allowing liquor vends to continue functioning.
 
 According to Nataraajan, several states including Maharashtra and   took steps to denotify highways in cities paving the way for continuance of bars. "Tamil Nadu government also initiated action in the regard. But it is yet to denotify the highways (within the city limits)," he said. Noting that Tamil Nadu attracts a good number of visitors for Meetings, Incentives, Conferences and Exhibitions (MICE) tourism, he said, this category of tourists has started shifting to Bengaluru and Hyderabad. "Moreover, our state has retained the first position in wooing the highest number of domestic and international tourists for the straight third year. The closure of bars in some star hotels will have a bearing on this, which may have an adverse impact on tourist arrivals," he added.
 
 Apart from bars in hotels, hundreds of state run TASMAC wine shops were also closed in the light of the Supreme Court's order.
 
