NAGPUR: Corporators and politicians have pointed out many errors in the voters list prepared by   (NMC) as per new 38 wards for the elections on February 21. They fear low voting percentage if the civic body does not correct the errors.

 NMC received 314 complaints, most of which related to voters in bulk going missing from booths and appearing in others, on Tuesday, the last day for submitting objections. Now, NMC teams will verify the complaints and correct any valid objections. Any errors not pointed out till Tuesday will not be corrected in this election. The final list of voters will be out on January 21.
 
 Two corporators — Congress corporator from Central Nagpur Harshala Sable and BREM corporator from North Nagpur Rahul Telang — told TOI that even their names were shown in other wards in the voters list.
 
 “I reside in ward no. 17 as per new ward system. A booth with 1,206 voters of ward no. 17 has been shown in ward no. 36. This booth includes my all family members. Shockingly, ward no. 36 is in   assembly constituency while ward no. 17 is in Central Nagpur. In fact, ward no. 16 lies between these two wards. There could be many such errors. With each ward being huge and comprising up to 60,000 voters, it is very difficult to go through the entire voters list,” said former corporator Manoj, husband of Harshala Sable.
 
 Similarly, Telang said his name appears in ward no. 7 instead of ward no. 6.
 
 Dharampeth Zone in West Nagpur received a complaint about 4,000 voters from ward no. 13, 14 and 15 being shown in ward no. 12. “Parts of voters list itself are incorrect,” said complainants.
 
 Shiv Sena corporator from North Nagpur Suresh Talwekar said around 700-800 voters of Pawan Nagar are in ward no. 6 instead of ward no. 3. “Some more voters of ward no. 3 are in ward no. 24 and 25. This is happening in every election, and will hit polling percentage,” he said.
 
 Corporator from   Abha Pande said she could find names of 1,243 voters of ward no. 21 from Bhamtipura, Telipura etc areas in ward no. 20 and 22. “I can understand mistakes in ward periphery, but how can voters in the centre of the ward be shifted. This will create problems on polling day,” she said. Pande also said names of areas too were shown incorrectly in voters list.
 
 BSP corporator from North Nagpur Murlidhar Meshram said over 4,000 voters of ward no. 9 were shown in ward no. 7. “All these are from Daily Shop Quarters, Kadbi Chowk, Nazul Layout, Lumbini Nagar, Christian Colony and Bezonbagh. Voters list also includes many dead persons and also those who have shifted to other places,” he said.
 
 BJP corporator from South-West Nagpur Gopal Bohare said major problem is in peripheral areas. “Names of voters have been interchanged in wards. Many residential areas like   etc were divided into two or three wards, causing errors and confusion. In some cases, members of same family are shown in different booths and even wards,” he said.
 
