HYDERABAD: Over five lakh students seeking admissions in intermediate colleges for academic year 2017-18 will have to wait as ambiguity looms over online   process proposed to be introduced from this year. 

 The deputy chief minister and education minister Kadiyam   had declared in the Assembly that like degree courses, admissions for intermediate too will be conducted online from this year through Degree Online Services Telangana (DOST).
 
 While the notification was earlier expected to be released on May 5, it has now been delayed with the   (TSBIE) yet to receive instructions from the government on whether to go ahead with online admissions or not. “We have proposed to conduct the admissions online. However, we are yet to receive nod from the government,” confirmed  , joint secretary for academic at TSBIE. 
 
 According to sources, the file comprising guidelines of DOST admissions is pending with Srihari and is yet to be cleared by the minister. 
 
 While online admission process is expected to eliminate discrepancies in admission sought in private colleges, there are various dynamics related to prescribed fees and college affiliations delaying the process. “If the government decides to go ahead with online admissions then only affiliated colleges will be considered in the process. However, the affiliation process is under process and will conclude in the next few days,” said Reddy. 
 
 Even as the government is deliberating on the online admission process, random check on various junior college websites reveals that several managements have already started taking admissions. “Online admissions will not repeat the   incident wherein the institute ran without affiliation and left over 400 students in a limbo. However, the TSBIE needs to keep a tab on various such colleges that have begun admissions and classes before the notification is issues,” opined Madhusudan Reddy, president of Telangana Government Junior College Lecturers Association. 
 
 It may be noted that last year, the notification was issued on May 18, a week before the SSC results were declared on May 25. However, this year, the notification is not declared even after a week of the SSC results. Delay in issuance of the notification will also affect the academic calendar which is scheduled to begin from June 1.
 
