NAGPUR: A man, 29, had scripted a meticulous   of his mistress’s husband following a plot seeing in a   on television based on true stories but was outsmarted by cops who managed to unfold it putting him behind bars. The only mistake that he had done to get caught was leaving the deceased’s Aadhar card behind with the victim. 

 Apart from the murder plan, the accused had cooked up yet another subplot to mislead the investigators of the motive behind the murder. But, the cops once again discovered his fake story. 
 
  was arrested, along with his employee-turned-accomplice Manoj Choudhari, 24, for the involvement behind the murder of 28-year-old Surendra Shanichara on February 3 at the forest off   near Ghodmada village around 70km from Nagpur. 
 
 The probe had kicked off on February 9 after Shanichara’s decomposed body was traced. Nagpur rural’s cyber cell under API Arvind Saraf and Local Crime branch (LCB) under senior PI Sanjay Purandhare, under SP Shailesh Balkawade, began the probe. The assailants had taken away the cell phone and other belongings of the deceased but had ignored the ‘Aadhar card’ which helped the cops to identify the deceased and also landed up at his rented house near Sonegaon lake. It was after speaking to his wife Nisha (name changed) and mother that the cops came to know about his tiff with Meshram who owned a pan kiosk near Garoba maidan.
 
 Shanichara, who used to frequent Meshram’s pan kiosk, had borrowed some money from him. Meshram used to frequent Shanichara’s house demanding to return his borrowed money. Eventually, Meshram and Shanichara’s wife developed an illicit relation which the victim came to know. Shanichara, apart from opposing the illicit affair, also started threatening Meshram to implicate him in a police case. He had been also refusing to return the amount. 
 
 Meshram plotted the murder by asking Choudhari to invite Shanichara for picnic where they offered him beer laced with pesticide. As Shanichara started vomiting, Choudhari throttled him. They later disposed his cell phone and other belongings to a nullah before returning to city. 
 
 It was the cell phone calls between Choudhari, his friend and Shanichara that led to the cracking of the case which is now registered at Umred police station.
 
