KOLKATA: On a day when Team India launched their campaign in the four-match Test series against Australia in Pune, former skipper   slogged it out -far away from the limelight -at the   here on Thursday afternoon. The wicketkeeper-batsman, who will be leading his state side   in the upcoming   (One-dayers), began his preparations for the tournament as well as the   and the   in the right earnest.

 It was just another day in office for Dhoni as he spent three hours, training and practising with his teammates under a hot sun. Jharkhand, who are placed in Group D along with Karnataka, Chhattisgarh, Saurashtra, Hyderabad, Services and Jammu and Kashmir, will open their campaign against Karnataka on Saturday .
 
 Sporting a black floppy hat and shorts, Dhoni was the centre of attraction. In a throwback to his days at the helm of Team India, Dhoni began the proceedings with a brief team meeting before dividing the squad members into to two teams for a game of soccer. Known for his passion for football, Dhoni chose to play as a defender.
 
 As always, the former India skipper lo oked relaxed and kept a low profile throughout the session, even turned a net bowler, taking turns to bowl at his team's leading batsmen like Ishank Jaggi, Ishan Kishan, Virat Singh and Saurabh Tiwary .
 
 He was the last to pad up and batted both against pacers and spinners in the nets in multiple but short stints. He didn't play too many big shots, but struck the ball powerfully and sweetly . One of the bowlers, who tried to stop the skipper's powerful drive, hurt his fingers in the process. Later he stood behind the stumps and watched others bat from close quarters but didn't pull on the big gloves even once.
 
 His mere presence seemed to have gal vanised Jharkhand youngsters, who are elated to share the dressing room with him. One of them, opener Virat Singh said he is hoping to learn a lot from Dhoni. “I respect him a lot,“ he said. “I will ask him about the secret behind staying calm and composed in tough situations,“ he added.
 
 Although the left-handed batsman had Dhoni as his co-passenger during the team's train journey from Ranchi to Howrah, he is yet to interact with him at length. “We were all there together and so there was no chance to talk to him personally ,“ he stated. Virat, however, is not in awe of Dhoni. “He is very approachable. I am planning to pick his brains in course of this tournament,“ he said.
 
 Giving up India's captaincy hasn't reduced Dhoni's popularity one bit. Shouts of “Dhoni, Dhoni“ from a handful of fans rented the air as he left the Eden Gardens. The 35-year-old acknowledged them with a wave of hand and his trademark smile as he got into the team bus. 
 
 
