The wife of the   accused of carrying out   begged him to stop the   two months ago, but he ignored her appeals, investigators said on Monday, citing details from her statement.

 Manisha Khidrapure, also a homeopath, has further revealed that following her husband Dr Babasaheb Khidrapure’s refusal, she stopped visiting his nursing home in Sangli district’s Mhaisal village, about 400 km from Mumbai, and started working independently in Narwad village.
 
 On more than one occasion, she thought about alerting the police about the   facilitated by her husband, but she feared reprisal.
 
 Dr Babasaheb, 42, is suspected to be a key figure in an interstate ring that conducted illegal sex determination tests and abortions for families desperate to have a male child. On February 28, a 26-year-old woman died while undergoing a medical termination of pregnancy at his nursing home.
 
 Swati Jamdare’s death in the bungled operation exposed what activists have described as rampant female foeticide in the region. Nineteen aborted foetuses were discovered near the nursing home on March 5.
 
 Seven people, including Dr Babasaheb and two more doctors, were arrested and charged. Dr Manisha, 35, was also detained, but investigators later released her as they didn’t find anything incriminating against her.
 
 “I told my husband that he should stop female foeticide, but he didn’t listen to me. I then started my practice in Narwad as I didn’t want to be associated with the crime which my husband was committing,” Dr Manisha has said in her statement to the police.
 
 She tried to counsel Dr Babasaheb on several occasions and even considered contacting cops after she learned about his illegal procedures two months ago.
 
 “She said she was not bold enough to take any decision. Dr Babasaheb Khidrapure used to tell her that it was not a crime and that he was just helping poor families,” said Sangli superintendent of police Dattatraya Shinde.
 
 “So far, we have not registered any case against her as she was not practising at her husband’s clinic. She had started her own practice in Narwad village, which is not far from Mhaisal.” But Shinde clarified that Dr Manisha had not been given a clean chit.
 
 Dr Babasaheb allegedly helped women from Sangli and Kolhapur districts, and Karnataka to kill their unborn daughters. He had been performing these procedures since 2009.
 
 A source close to the investigation said there was suspicion that he operated even on a pregnant Dr Manisha. Mirror could not verify this information with the family.
 
 Four more arrests The Sangli police have arrested four more suspects in connection with the abortion racket, taking the total number of those in custody to 11.
 
 “Sadeep Jadhav, Virengonda Gumte, Yasin Tasildar and Satgonda patil worked as agents for Dr Babasaheb Khidrapure and the other two arrested doctors,” said deputy superintendent of police  .
 
 “The agents have said in their statement that they persuaded pregnant women to undergo sex determination tests and an abortion if it was a girl child. They earned Rs 3,000 for each abortion.”
 
 The four men were picked up from Kolhapur district and Karnataka.
 
