THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Kerala industry is optimistic and anxious as the finance minister   gives his finishing touches on the state budget to be presented on March 3. Industry officials expect a close to 30% enhanced budgetary provision for industries, a revival package for ailing public sector undertakings (PSUs), speedy clearances and early implementation of Centre's Goods and   (GST) regime credited with a unified tax structure. The state government has also declared its intent to develop infrastructure and industrial corridors.

 Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) officials expect the budget to be sleek with no change in taxes as the state looks forward for GST compliance. Kerala is expected to receive more central finances by the end of the year with implementation of GST.The state will be the collecting authority for taxes from Industrial units with an annual turnover of upto Rs 150 crore, the official said.
 
 With more number of PSUs slumping into loss this year, industry officials are cautious when it comes to taking decisions related to procurement and market ing in the wake of vigilance cases. “Professional handling of PSU management is a herculean task and instead of demoralising the industry officials, prudence need to be adopted to check corruption and ensure transparency ,“ an industry official said. PSUs including those in traditional sectors such as cashew are reeling under a crisis due to issues over raw material procurement and high labour costs. Unless private sector participation via PPP is encouraged, it would be tough to run the ailing PSUs, industry officials said.
 
 “Some sops and schemes for reviving crisis-ridden PSUs and thrust on infrastructure development for industrial growth are likely in the budget. In terms of taxes, do not expect any change as tax alignment for GST implementation is on the anvil,“ said Babu Thomas, state chairman of the   (CII).
 
 FICCI state council chairman   told TOI that more hand-holding for Micro, Small and   (MSMEs), with schemes to tap investments of non-resident Keralites for productive use and GST will be a great boon for Kerala industry . More sops are likely for investors in industry corridors, like the one connecting Coimbatore and Kochi, he said.
 
 Officials in the district industries centre (DIC) are hopeful that the state budget will enhance allocation for industries. “ A budgetary enhancement of around 30% is expected for industries, particularly MSMEs in the state. MSME cluster development and sector specific industrial parks with value-addition for processing industry in coconut, jackfruit and pineapple are also expected,“ said E Salahudeen, general manager, DIC. An effective single window clearance system for licenses to set up MSMEs or start-ups is likely to be ensured within 30 days, he said.
 
