With it’s innovative stage settings, an engrossing storyline, a meaningful script, rib-tickling comedy, lilting songs and riveting performances by talented artistes, Mhojem Jivit Konnachea Hatant? (In Whose Hands Is My Life?) truly lives up to it’s name as it urges it’s audience to introspect into their lives during the ongoing Lenten season and decide upon the vital question as to whom they will dedicate their lives – Almighty God or the Devil?

 Conceptualised and produced by musician Lenoy  , with script and direction by Alfie de Divar - known for his award winning tiatrs, Mhojem Jivit Konnachea Hatant? is a captivating blend of music and drama, with a total of 12 cantarams (songs), including two canttos. 
 
 Besides providing the background score on his keyboard and not utilising any wind instruments like trumpets or saxophones, Gomendes has also experimented with a new concept of utilising audio-visual effects to create awesome and mesmerising stage settings and doing away with the need to frequently change the backdrop curtains, as is the practice in regular tiatrs. Video-editing by Patson Barbosa and light effects by A P Rojols provide a flashback to the main story.
 
 Gomendes’ debut tiatr Mhojem Jivit Konnachea Hatant? narrates the struggles and various issues encountered by the present generation youth, such as peer pressure, drugs, pre-marital sex, employment, suicide, etc. A shy college-going Vincentina (Elaine Pinto) is offered a part-time job by her best pal Skyla (Vensila), with the former confiding in the latter that she is madly in love with the dashing Elmar Soares (Elvis Mascarenhas). Skyla cautions Vincentina that it may be infatuation, but the latter goes ahead expressing her love to him. Elmar spurns her and along with his affluent group of friends mocks the economically backward girl as they experiment with drugs.
 
 The orphan girl, Vincentina, is brought up by her God-fearing uncle Leopold (Mathew De Souza) and aunt Leopoldina (Aveena Pereira) who have relocated from Mumbai to Goa with their bespectacled niece. 
 
 In order to impress Elmar, Vincentina undergoes a total glamourous makeover, calling herself ‘Vinnie’ as she tries her best to fit in with the college gang comprising Avina Furtado, Everleigh Mascarenhas, Frenzie Vito Rodrigues and Diptesh Harmalkar. But she does not succeed in doing so, and this plunges her into depression. In an extremely gripping scene, where a frustrated Vincentina is all set to jump into a river, the parish priest counsels Vincentina and convinces that suicide is not the answer to her problems. 
 
 This play also emphasises upon women empowerment, while breaking the myth that a housewife has ‘no work’, as well as enlightening the masses regarding the growing menace of ATM frauds and the Goa Archdiocesan Commission of Liturgy guidelines about sacred music. 
 
 The opening scenes enacted from the Biblical passages provide references to the numerous temptations by the devil to God’s creations, such as Adam and Eve being tempted by the serpent in the Garden of Eden and a jealous Cain murdering his brother Abel. The scenes of King David being informed of the Lord’s displeasure over his unjust wicked action of chicanery and adultery; Satan and his gang of devils; Jesus casting out demons into a herd of swine and the Crucifixion of Jesus were well received by the audience. 
 
 While Alfie de Divar effortlessly plays the role of the parish priest, Mathew and Aveena are at their hilarious best, especially when Leopoldina reads out from the Konkani Bible in her heavily-accented English. 
 
 The comedy quartet performed by Frenzie, Everleigh, Diptesh and Ellis da Costa depicting ghosts in the cemetery haunting beggars who had attended the traditional Goan bhikaranchem jevonn given by their family in memory of those deceased received an encore from the audience. There was also a reference made to the recent Supreme Court ban on bars functioning within 500m of the national and state highways. 
 
 The cast of Mhojem Jivit Konnachea Hatant also includes   (Jesus),   (devil), Raymond Gonsalves, Agnelo Fernandes, Florian Colaco, Avilo Viegas, Adilus Gomendes, Connie, Cielda Pereira and Shunaina Baptista. Performing under the tutelage of Gomendes (keyboards), are Leeroy (drums), Bryson (rhythm guitar) and Sally (bass guitar), with Joe looking after the sound.
 
