MUMBAI: When  , a medical aspirant from south Mumbai, started preparations for her entrance test in 2014, she had to focus on the state's medical common entrance test (CET), which was based on the NEET syllabus (class XI and XII together). 

 In January 2015, the state government decided the test will be revamped to include only class XII state board syllabus. Choudhari and many like her from across the state then prepared for an easier CET 2016 for two years. Days before their CET were to be held in 2016, NEET was revived by a   order, making it a mandatory exam for all medical admissions. Since she was not sure about getting a government seat, she decided to appear for NEET phase-II as well. Failing to get a seat of her choice last year, Choudhari re-appeared for NEET again this year. After appearing for three different exams in the last two years, many students like her, who took a drop, are now facing the possibility of one more exam if the court rules in favour of a re-exam.
 
 "It is just demotivating. Our batch has seen the most changes in government policies at the state and central levels. To prepare for the same syllabus again and again becomes mundane for students. We were earlier preparing for the state board syllabus and then were asked to prepare for the NEET syllabus in just three months last year," said Choudhari. She started preparations again only in October last year, after waiting for all admission rounds to conclude. Rujul Shah, another student from Aurangabad, who took a drop, said that medical course itself is very demanding and it requires students to invest five years. "In such a situation, if they hold an exam and cancel it and then conduct a re-exam, it would be unfortunate for the students who have taken a drop," said Shah.
 
 Jeet Kamdar, another student from Chembur, said that a re-exam will be counter-productive. 
 
 Students and parents have started an online petition on change.org against a re-exam. "Re-examination of students exceeding 10 lakh is not only waste of resources but also a waste of hard work and time. Since there was no paper leak, conducting such a huge exam should not be a possibility because it proves to be a disadvantage for the children. A re-exam puts too much pressure on a 17-year student as it is stressful," read the petition.
 
 
