GHAZIABAD:  , the 12-year-old who went missing from her home in Shakti Khand 3 on February 13, was found in   district in Himachal Pradesh on Thursday.

 According to Ghaziabad police, the girl was found in a child care centre in Kangra. “We were informed almost an hour ago by   Police that Archie is with a child care centre in Kangra and is in good health. We are now sending a police team there to bring her back,” said Salmantaj Patil, SP (City).
 
 However, when contacted, Kangra police control room officers said the girl was found in Palampur.
 
 “We got a call from the bus stand in Palampur in the afternoon that a girl who is about 11 or 12 years old has been found. When we visited her and tried asking her name, she said her name is ‘Tina’ and was from an orphanage in Haridwar. However, no connection to any orphanage could be established after we spoke to the Haridwar police. When I contacted our SP he told me to take her to the child helpline centre in Palampur,” said Gurbachan Singh, SHO of Palampur police station.
 
 The Palampur police said she was taken to the child care centre on Wednesday and was kept under the surveillance of a female police constable. “After she was taken to the centre more verification took place and her connection with Ghaziabad was found. Her address was confirmed on Thursday and we informed Ghaziabad police about it,” said Singh, adding, “When asked how she came so far from Haridwar on her own, she said she came in a train along with other people from her orphanage and then took an auto to reach the bus stand.”
 
 However, Singh said she was not answering most of the questions and she seemed scared. The girl is now at a child care centre in Dharamsala.
 
 Meanwhile, family members back at Archie’s home are elated to hear the news. “I am so happy and grateful to Ghaziabad police for finding my daughter. I will be leaving shortly with my wife and police officers to fetch her,” said Subhash Yadav, the girl’s father.
 
 Archie’s uncle said, “Archie has no history of any mental illness. In fact, she is a very intelligent student and always scores 85% marks in school.” 
 
 When contacted Kangra SP Sanjeev Gandhi said, “When Archie was found, she confused all of us by giving wrong information about herself. She said she belongs to an orphanage in Haridwar, and came here on a train which reached Pathankot from Ghaziabad and then reached here. But when she was counselled by the child care officials she told us the exact address and phone numbers of her parents. She was just confused as to where to go next like a 12-year-old would be, but I don’t think so she was disoriented or hypnotised.”
 
 
