DEHRADUN: Many buildings in and around the   have masterpieces dating back a few centuries on their walls. These include a number of paintings from the   -- one of the lesser-known painting styles derived from the   form of art. Some are being   for, but others  .
 
  At the Kelaghat temple near the Rispana river bed in Old Rajpur for instance, a mural from the Garhwal school – depicting a rarely mentioned episode from the Ramayana, the meeting between Hanuman and Prince Bharata -- has been whitewashed by miscreants, a damage which conservationists are now trying to undo. “We have spoken to restoration experts from Delhi and have got the cost estimate to restore the murals at Kelaghat. A lot of young people in the city are willing to come forward and volunteer for the labour. Certainly, there is much interest even today about these beautiful murals,” anthropologist Lokesh Ohri, co-founder of city-based heritage group ‘Been There Doon That,’ told TOI.
  
  In his book ‘Been There Doon That? 10 walks to explore the heritage of Doon valley’, Ohri, who has researched the subject extensively, traces the origin of the Garhwal school to the Mughal royal court. He writes, “In 1658, when the exiled Mughal prince Sulaiman Sheikh, the son of Prince Dara Shikoh sought refuge in Srinagar-Garhwal escaping his uncle Aurangzeb, two major painters accompanied him. These were the father and son, Shyam Das Tomar and Har Das Tomar. Raja Prithivi Shah ruled Garhwal and he provided asylum to Sulaiman Sheikh. Though later, his nephew who succeeded him, betrayed Sulaiman to Aurangzeb, he kept the two painters at his court in Srinagar and they were appointed as Tasvirdars in the royal chitrashala.”
  
  Some scholars also believe, adds Ohri, that there was a tradition of painting in the courts of the Garhwal kings earlier as well. Later, the Garhwal school had a close interaction with the Basholi and Kangra schools, as the royal families of the hills were related through marriage and the paintings were a significant part of the daughter's dowry. In fact, the speciality of the Garhwal school lay in depicting human figures with special emphasis on the female form.
  
  In Dehradun, these paintings can be found in old private home temples too. At Lakshmi Narayan temple near FRI for instance, which is owned by a city-based family, several episodes from the Ramayana and Mahabharata are depicted in the Garhwal style. According to owner Deepak Nautiyal, his great-grandfather Laxman Singh Nautiyal, a zamindar of the area, had built the temple in 1886. “Since he did not have a child at the time, somebody told him he should construct a temple and he will be blessed with a child. When the temple was built, the Garhwal school of painting was quite prominent which is why the same style must have been followed. There are beautiful murals depicting Krishna leela and Ram leela on the walls. People often ask us about these depictions which have been evocatively drawn. My grandfather Pyarelal restored the paintings in 1949 and ever since, we are trying to maintain these works of art.”
