GURUGRAM: A major accident was averted early in the afternoon on Tuesday at  , when an  , around 3-3.5 ft long, fell from the under-construction Sector 53-54   on a car and crashed through the windscreen. The owner, who was at the wheel, however, was left unscathed.

 Kanwar Chawla, 47, who lives in Grand Arch in Sector 58, was on his way to Supermart 1 in Sector 27, when the incident took place. “There was a traffic jam before the Metro station. When it cleared, I started driving. Suddenly, an iron rod crashed through my car’s windscreen,” said Chawla. The iron rod was a part of the scaffolding. It was being unfastened when it slipped and fell, said police.
 
 Even though the rod did not fully penetrate the windscreen, it damaged the glass and body of Chawla’s white Fiat Linea. 
 
 “If it were a pedestrian or biker, or even if it had fallen from a different angle, it could have been fatal,” said Chawla, who contacted police after the scare. 
 
 Cops rushed to the spot, but no FIR was filed as a settlement was reached between Rapid Metro authorities and Chawla. “The incident took place around 12.30pm. The parties settled mutually, so no FIR was registered,” told the police.
 
 “What happened shows the carelessness of the authorities, that there is no value for life. With construction going on, there should have been a safety net under it, or the area should have been cordoned off,” said Chawla, who was alone in his car at the time.
 
 Vivek Kalia, estate officer 2 of Huda, said, “It’s a serious matter. We’ll do a formal inquiry of the incident. Rapid Metro will be give a chance to present their views. If any lapse is found, we’ll take necessary action.”
 
 An official spokesperson of Rapid Metro said, “It’s unfortunate the incident occurred despite stringent safety norms in place. We’ve initiated an inquiry and asked the contractor to submit a report.”
 
 Sushant Lok SHO Gaurav Phogat said action could have been taken against Rapid Metro if there was injury or loss of life. But as of now, there won’t even be a diversion in the area.
 
 In a similar accident in May last year, three people were injured under the Sector 56 Rapid Metro station, including the driver of a crane and two auto-rickshaw passengers.
 
 
