LUCKNOW: Union minister for human resource development   on Monday said that 
  (AAP) is exposed. "Party poori tarah se benaakab hue hai. Janta ne unhe saaf kar diya aur, aur bhi safai hogi. AAP me kathni alag hai aur karni alag hai (They have been exposed. They say something and do something)," said Javadekar on the sidelines of a function held at City Montessori School, Gomti Nagar.

 Javadekar’s remarks came after sacked minister in Delhi government   launched a direct attack on Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal saying he had witnessed the CM accepting Rs 2 crore in cash from his minister, Satyendar Jain.
 
 Addressing students and teachers a teachers' conference on New Model of Education in 21st Century, Javadekar emphasised on the need to improve the public schools in the country so as to do away with the existing broken education system. Various surveys done by government and private agencies shown that the learning outcomes in government schools are poor, and often, a class 5 student can’t read a class 3 text, and a class 6 student can’t do mathematics of class 4 level, Javadekar pointed out.
 
 "To mitigate the problem, the government has codified learning outcomes for each class, and all schools have been asked to paste posters of these learning outcomes inside each classrooms. A copy of the outcomes will also be provided to the parents at the time of admissions. This will help to maintain accountability of both teachers and parents,’’ he said.
 
 He added, the Right to Education Act (RTE) which came into effect 10 years ago has no accountability. The no-detention policy till class 8 led to a massive dropout of students in class 9. A set of defined learning outcomes will be useful in knowing what competencies need to build in a child before he/she moves to the next class, Javadekar said, adding not all government schools are bad and not all private English-medium schools are necessarily good.
 
 Talking on the menace of cheating in UP state board examinations, Javadekar said, "In UP, I see parental care by parents supplying solved answer copies to their children in exams. What kind of support is this? They should rather spend their time helping them in studies.’’
 
 According to Javadekar, public and private schools must co-exist. "It is true that all is not well with government schools but this doesn’t imply that there is no scope for improvement. We are committed to change the picture of public schools," he said. 
 
