BENGALURU: Chief minister   asked officials on Tuesday to expedite ongoing work on sprucing up city roads under the TenderSURE (Specification of Urban Road Execution) project.

 He said 40 more roads would be included in the TenderSURE project in Package-4, taking the number of roads covered under the scheme for upgradation to 90.
 
 “TenderSURE is the most significant project that envisages giving a facelift to Bengaluru city roads, scaling them up to global standards.The only worry is that work is going on at a little slow pace. I want   officials and those involved in the execution of the project to speed it up,“ Siddaramaiah said.
 
 The chief minister was addressing a gathering after inaugurating six roads in the central business district (CBD) renovated under TenderSURE. He formally dedicated to the public the gentrified thoroughfares, including Richmond Road (General Thimmaiah Road), Residency Road (Field Marshal Cariappa Road), Commissariat Road, Museum Road, Nrupatunga Road and Kempegowda Road at an event held near the War Memorial at the Brigade Road-Residency Road Junction.
 
 While TenderSURE is being executed in three packages to upgrade 50 roads in the city, Richmond Road, Residency Road, Commissariat Road and Museum Road have been modernized under Package-1, and Nrupatunga Road and Kempegowda Road are part of Package-2.
 
 Cunningham Road, Vittal Mallya Hospital Road and St Marks Road, which were upgraded under Package-1, have already been inaugurated.
 
 Work at Church Street, that falls in Package-2, is in progress and the chief minister said the street would be ready by December.
 
 Twelve roads have been identified for modernisation under Package-3, of which the tender process has been initiated for six roads and a detailed project report prepared for the other six roads; the tender is yet to be called.
 
 Siddaramaiah said the government was proposing adding more roads to the scheme and he instructed officials to identify the roads to be included in Package-4.
 
 “We are aiming at modernizing 90 roads in four packages. Work on the first three packages covering 50 roads is at different stages, and will include more roads in Package-4. Officials should start identifying roads for Package-4,“ Siddaramaiah said.
 
 He said his government has allocated Rs 7,300 crore for infrastructure development in the city out of which Rs 700 crore is earmarked for TenderSURE.
 
 The state government had launched the TenderSURE project in May 2012, and orders were issued to execute the project under the supervision of non-governmental organization JUSP and the BBMP. The project's emphasis is on the design of urban roads with amenities for pedestrians and cyclists. The aesthetically built streetscape includes bus, auto and parking bays, and bicycle lanes. The roads are designed to have separate utility ducts and tertiary storm water drains so that road cutting for laying utility lines is avoided.
 
 
 
 
 Chief minister Siddaramaiah wants BBMP officials to come up with innovative ideas to ramp up revenue. “There is a yawning gap between revenue receipts and expenditure of the BBMP. While revenue is around Rs 2,300 crore, its estimated expenditure in the budget is more than Rs 10,000. It is time for BBMP officials to think of ways and means to increase revenue,“ the chief minister said. Highlighting his government's pro-poor schemes, the chief minister said Indira Canteens, where food would be sold at affordable prices, would be launched in all 198 BBMP wards on August 15.
 
 He said the government was planning to procure 3,000 new buses to add to the   (BMTC) fleet, and that the 42km long Phase 1 of   is ready for inauguration.
 
 
 
 
 Siddaramaiah preferred to travel in a BMTC Volvo bus to get a feel of the TenderSURE roads. He and his cabinet colleagues K J George, B Ramalinga Reddy, R Roshan Baig and government officials went around the city on the new roads, before attending the inaugural event at the War Memorial.
 
 
 
 
 Some retired army men who attended the inaugural wanted Siddaramaiah to respond to their various demands, including welfare schemes.The chief minister said his government was looking into the demands and raised the slogan “Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan!“ to assuage the ex-servicemen.The retired men demanded that the government develop the War Memorial on the lines of India Gate in New Delhi.
 
