NEW DELHI: The Kanpur module owing allegiance to the so-called  , involved in the March 7 Ujjain train blast, had exploded a bomb outside the venue of Prime Minister  's Dussehra rally in Lucknow last year though the event was not reported in the media, disappointing the module.

 The original plan was to target the `secured area' inside the rally but the terror squad couldn't get access due to heavy security there according to the interrogation report of Atif Muzaffar, the leader of the IS aligned team, exclusively accessed by TOI.
 
 The group, while making trial runs of improvised explosive devices (IEDs), learnt that Prime Minister Modi was to visit Lucknow.
 
 Muzaffar, a resident of Kanpur and self designated `Emir' (leader) of the Kanpur module, discussed the possibility of targeting the PM with former   air man G M Sahab. As part of the plan, about 5-6 days before the October 11 rally, which was attended by home minister Rajnath Singh as well, Atif and his deputy Danish prepared a pipe bomb using steel pipes and chandelier bulbs. In order to make the IED more lethal, they even bought two packets of splinters (iron ball bearings) from a cycle shop.
 
 Before planting the bomb, they also conducted a reccee of the venue in order to observe security arrangements.
 
 Atif and Danish reached Lucknow using a Bajaj Discover bike ­ registration number UP-78CP-9704, owned by Atif.The bike had been taken by Atif from G M Sahab and had an   sticker on it.
 
 After reaching Lucknow, they procured SIM cards and readied the bomb's timer.
 
 Atif told NIA and central intelligence agencies that their plan was to enter the “secured area“ of PM's rally and target the leaders but this did not happen. Atif further says, “We then planted the IED on the roadside for targeting the crowd“. The group members then dispersed to their respective locations and waited for news to be aired on all TV channels. However, there was nothing on news channels about any blast, said a security official. After three-four days, the module members went to the spot where they planted the bomb.
 
 “We were happy to see the impact of the blast but felt disappointed on no media reports of the blast,“ he told interrogators. Six members of the module including Atif, G M Sahab, Syed Meer have been arrested while Saifullah has been killed in encounter a day after Ujjain train blast.
 
