Whoever has visited the Kochi-Muziris Biennale would have wondered at some point of time as to what happens to the massive installations, once the event is over. 

 Well, they are not given away with the trash, as some would have imagined. Not all of them, rather. “It all depends on what the artist wants to do with it,” says Harilal, one of the organisers. Thus while the huge pyramid stationed at the entrance of the Aspinwall House, is going to be left to disintegrate by itself, others will be shipped back to the artist’s country. The Pyramid of Exiled Poets, by Slovenian litterateur Aleš Šteger is made of cow dung, wood and matting, and will thus wear down over time.
 
  “The pyramid was made exclusively for the Kochi-Muziris Biennale so the artist has decided to leave it as it is. Once it disintegrates, the remains will be disposed of,” he says. However, the giant egg installation by artist G R Iranna, titled Garbh, is situated inside a small room and occupies the entire space of the room. It will be broken down into pieces and disposed of, as it was made inside the room and is too big for the doors. The installation Sea of Pain by Chilean poet Raúl Zurita, which is a massive shallow tank of water, will just be drained away.
 
  There are also exhibits which will be donated to art galleries and museums, according to the artists’ wishes. “Delhi-based Malayali artist Gigi Scaria’s giant bell installation, titled Chronicles of the Shores Foretold, one of the installations from the 2014 Biennale, was bought by the Lalithakala Akademi. It is now a permanent exhibit at the Vaikom Boat Jetty,” he says. The steel bell is 13 feet tall and weighs 2.5 tonnes and was taken to Vaikom by ferry.
  Most foreign artists take back the installations, after carefully dismantling them. “You might wonder how the entire hall filled with machines carved out of wood can be shipped back, but it will all be unscrewed and packed, to Romania, the home country of the artist.” Titled Ghost Keeping, the installation by Istavan Chakany sees intricate carvings in wood, which symbolises the industrial revolution. Some artists take them directly to other international exhibitions as well.
 
  The process of dismantling and packing started on Thursday morning, the day after the Biennale ended but the entire procedure will take around one and a half months in total, says Harilal. Although it is the artists who decide the fate of their works, the Biennale team assists them in the packing and moving, using cranes and other machinery. The artists, apparently, are so concerned about their works that they often fly down to Kochi to supervise the process! “Often, they themselves handle the works so that nothing gets broken,” he says.
 
 
