NEW DELHI: India sought to provide another fillip to its   outreach as it announced a $500 million line of credit for Mauritius and also signed an agreement with the country for maritime security cooperation.

 PM  , who hosted his counterpart   on Saturday, said after the meeting that the two countries had agreed to effective management of conventional and non-conventional threats in the Indian Ocean as essential to pursue economic opportunities.
 
 “The agreement today on the $500 million line of credit to Mauritius is a good example of our strong and continuing commitment to the development of Mauritius,” the Prime Minister said. The two countries also decided to intensify cooperation in a number of areas including trade and investment. 
 
 Modi said that India and Mauritius agreed to further strengthen their wide-ranging cooperation in hydrography for a secure and peaceful maritime domain.
 
 India is supporting the National Coast Guard of Mauritius in enhancing its capacity through Project Trident and will renew the operational life of the  , that was provided to Mauritius, under a grant assistance programme. India also agreed to provide a line of credit of $500 million to Mauritius for various projects.
 
 “We applaud the leadership shown by Prime Minister Jugnauth in drawing attention to the importance of renewable energy. The signing and ratification of the framework agreement on   by Mauritius has opened up new vistas of regional partnership for both countries in this field,” Modi said in a joint press statement with Jugnauth. 
 
 Acknowledging assistance from India, which has also provided offshore patrol vessels to Mauritius, Jugnauth said it was important to ensure that the sea links were safe and secure and that regular patrolling was conducted to combat illegal activities.
 
 He said that India and Mauritius had developed strong bilateral cooperation in the field of defence and security. “The acquisition of offshore patrol vessels and fast interceptable boats have enhanced the capacity of our police and national coast guards to patrol and protect our maritime zones. We also appreciate the training dispensed to our police personnel which have enhanced their skills,” he added.
 
 India is supporting the National Coast Guard of Mauritius in enhancing its capacity through Project Trident and will renew the operational life of the Coast Guard Ship Guardian, which was provided to Mauritius, under a grant assistance programme
 
 
