BENGALURU: From standing at a border watching refugees from Syria crossing over to working with women in rural Afghanistan,   is on a mission to improve the lives of those dealt a raw deal by fate. She was still a child, when she resolved that she would take up a job that would involve travel. She has journeyed to distant places, and has endless sought to know why why people do what they do. 

 Determined to fulfil her passion, Deborah studied international relations, after completing a course in law. Among other places, the   has served in Pakistan, Afghanistan, Columbia and the United Arab Emirates. The many important positions that she held include serving as a deputy director of the office of Pakistan affairs, and a foreign policy adviser to a three-star general of US Army Central. 
 
 In an interview to TOI on International Women’s day, Deborah, currently the Acting Consul General of the U.S. Consulate General in Chennai says finding the work-life balance is a matter of choice. 
 
 Excerpts: 
 
 
 
 I have always been interested in travelling, and people. But I did not know then that I could make a career out of it. I studied international relations at the university, and focused on international and comparative law while at law school. I practised law for a year in my home state of Colorado, and then had the opportunity to join the Foreign Service. The biggest challenge of my job is the constant travel. You learn about a new place, and new subjects every few years; this can be both exhilarating and exhausting. Since I joined the US Foreign Service, I've moved ten times and lived in, and traveled to more than 45 countries.
 
 
 
 I believe women are creative, fearless, resilient and hard-working. They can achieve as many goals as they set for themselves, whatever they might be, and in as many dimensions of their lives as they choose. It does not occur to me to think about what I might accomplish if I were something or someone else – I focus on who I am, what I can do and work hard to be the best.
 
 
 Work-life balance is about choice, and being proactive. The balance is different for everyone, and so each person must decide what it means for him or her, and then actively make a plan and try to stick to it. Personally, I love being active, staying outdoors, and spending time with friends and family – and so for me, making time to do these things makes me a happier person. I think it also makes me more productive while I am at work.
 
 
 
 
 Dream big and then work hard to make it happen! Don't listen to those, who say, you can't do it, and seek out those who will support your dreams, be honest with you, and help you get up when you fall down.
 
 
 
 This is an exciting time in the US-India relationships. I think things are only going to get stronger especially in areas of defense, trade and people-to-people ties, as President Donald Trump emphasized in his call with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Both our countries are large, diverse democracies, and there are more things that unite us than divide us. That’s already been evident in my limited time in South India. I have been most struck by the kindness and generosity of the people here. They always have a smile, a greeting, a kind word, and are willing to help any way they can.
 
 
