PATNA: Ankur Priyadarshini’s was awarded the best graduation research project in management and Anish Modi and Pratishtha’s were adjudged the best graduation project in marketing and merchandising respectively, at the graduation ceremony, christened ‘Modamorphosis’, at the   ( ) on Tuesday.

 The ceremony was organised for graduating Fashion Management Studies students of 2015-17 batch. Of the 29 passouts, 18 are girls. NIFT claimed 80% of them got on-campus placement.
 
 Chief guest Nikhil Suri, director of the Impulse (India) Private Limited, talked about the marketing strategies in the fashion world and how to survive.
 
 “Innovations, sustainability, work enjoyment and practice are the four elements for success. Right now, 40 million people in India are directly and 60 million others are indirectly associated with fashion industry,” he said.
 
 The students’ research projects were evaluated by a jury consisting of Nikhil Suri, Biba’s business head (e-commerce) Paresh Bhagel, Nike’s strategic account manager Utpal Singh and Bouuin founder Mehak Mahajan.
 
 Addressing the students, NIFT director   asked them to create their own products with what they have learned at the institute. 
 
 Textile Design department showcased their design collections in the Textile Graduation Show, christened ‘TANTU 2017’. The two-day exhibition was inaugurated by director (handloom and sericulture) Saket Kumar, director, handloom and sericulture. 
 
 Summer hobby camp: A five-day Summer Hobby Camp kicked off at  , at which children participated in workshops on basic electronics, robotics, life science, ship modelling and aero modelling.
 
 Centre’s curator Swaroop Mandal said the participants would be encouraged to do project-based practicals. Equipment and resource materials are being provided by the centre.
 
 At least 70 children are attending this camp. The centre will organize another summer hobby camp on creative art and scientific toy-making from May 29 to June 2.
 
 Career counselling: Radiant International School organised a ‘Career Counselling Mela’ to help students of classes X and XII explore career options, on the school campus on Tuesday.
 
 The session was attended by 23 experts and professionals from four categories — Science, commerce, and arts. State labour department’s director (employment and training) Sanjay Kumar Singh was the chief guest. Patna University’s English HoD Prof Shankar Dutt and former DGP Abhayanand were the guests of honours. 
 
 
