CHENNAI: With the state board   results declared, arts and science   in the city have seen a surge in the number of applications coming their way. The institutions have witnessed a good demand for the courses with some seeing a spike in the number of applications this year.

 Madras Christian College, Ethiraj College and Loyola said there was an increase in the number of overall applications when compared to last year. “With the current pulse of applications, we may overshoot last year’s number of 30,000 applications,” said K S Antonysamy, public relations officer, Loyola College.
 
 Commerce, as usual, turned out to be the popular choice in many colleges. With the number of centums in   having shot from 3000 to above 8000, colleges expect a stiff competition for the course. English, Maths and Computer Science also seem to be popular choices in some colleges.
 
 Other than commerce, Loyola is witnessing a high demand for visual communication and literature courses. MCC principal Alexander Jesudasan said, “Currently, numbers suggest a leaning toward commerce, English and business administration. Among science courses, the trend seems to be physics, chemistry, maths and computer application.”
 
 MOP Vaishnav College also saw a steady flow of applications for   and computer science, besides a significant increase for journalism course. Sources in Ethiraj College said while English was the top choice among the arts courses, maths, physics and computer science were leading in science.
 
 Most colleges are carrying out the application process for at least 10 days after the state board Class XII results. State board students may have an edge over their counterparts in CBSE schools as the CBSE results will be announced only after May 20. Loyola College gives 10 days time to submit applications post Class XII results. However, if CBSE results are not announced within that, submission of applications may be extended only by two days, the college sources said. 
 
 However, CBSE students need not panic as there are some colleges, including government colleges, which keep their gates open till the month. Colleges such as MOP Vaishnav will be making a provision for a few days for other boards like CBSE or ISC from the date of their results being announced.
 
 Stella Maris and Ethiraj have insisted that marks be produced during the time of filing applications and so have extended their deadlines till June 3 and June 30 respectively. However, interviews will begin 10 days after the Class XII results as per university norms. A few institutions like MCC have not yet issued a deadline.
 
 The cost of of applications ranges from Rs 100-Rs 200 across most colleges for the general category with government colleges have priced applications at a lower cost.
 
 Colleges such as Loyola, MCC and WCC have an online application process. Some like Ethiraj, MOP Vaishnav and Stella have gone completely online including the submission of applications and payment from this year. MCC has set up an application help desk on campus to help candidates apply online. 
 
 
