NAGPUR: Never share critical personal information even in casual conversations with strangers, said   (Cyber Cell, Nagpur)   during a special lecture on   at   (India), North Ambazari Road, on Saturday.

 The programme was organized by   and was open to the public. Mane shared important information on how to be safe from fraudulent elements that use technology to dupe people of money. He also shared instances which came to light at the city’s cyber cell where people were extorted of money on Facebook on the pretext of marriage.
 
 Phishing calls have become common things these days as individuals call and claim to be representing a bank in a bid to acquire one’s debit or credit card information. This leads to money being stolen directly from the bank account. Mane said, “Under no circumstances should the card’s PIN or CVV number be disclosed over the phone.”
 
 And even it is proven that an individual has been conned through phishing calls, banks will not be liable for any losses, said Mane. “It is not just the general public who fall prey to these schemes, some bank managers have also been caught off-guard.”
 
 According to Mane, people’s personal information is vulnerable to data theft thanks to smartphone applications since they have access to contacts, location and the phone’s hard drive. “We often grant access to these applications without reading the terms and conditions,” said Mane.
 
 A gaming application called ‘Candy Crush’ has been developed in Pakistan and siphons data from our phones to external entities, claims Mane. “Data is a commodity and is sold to those who can benefit from critical information,” he said. According to Mane, the price of data in black market is estimated to be between Rs5 and Rs15 per kilobyte.
 
 There are also cases where people have been scammed on social media. Mane gave one such example where a man swindled a city girl of over Rs70,000 after she befriended him on Facebook. 
 
 Mane also informed about a malware called ‘ransomware’ designed to block access to one’s own data until the sum is paid to the blackmailer. This malware can be triggered via links that promise sex chats on video. “Many people have been extorted because the blackmailer claimed to have their nude videos and threatened to released them on the Internet,” said Mane.
 
 People who have been affected by cyber crime or have any queries can contact the cyber cell’s 24x7 helpline No. 2566766.
 
