KOLKATA: A group of women dressed in blue and roaring aggression at its best far away in UK's Derby made a dull midweek day in Kolkata special on Thursday. 

 The   - powered by a 171 off 115 by allrounder Harmanpreet Kaur - not only ruled on the field at Derbyshire but also the internet, social networking sites and almost every home in the city where women's cricket scored the better over evening daily soaps for a change, perhaps for the first time ever.
 
 "I don't remember when was the last time I was rushing back home, taking an app cab instead of waiting in queue for the auto to watch a women's match. But such was the intensity this time. I kept watching the match on Hotstar but was dying to watch Kaur hitting those big sixes on a larger screen. She was hitting sixes with such power that it could even inspire some of our men cricketers," said software engineer Chiranjeet Chatterjee and a resident of Behala.
 
 The viewership was also not restricted to cricket-loving men on Thursday but since it were women, who were dominating the game, the mothers, sisters and wives, who are often glued to Bengali and Hindi soap operas throughout the evening, were also happy to be a part of the excitement. They were also eager to learn the rules of the game.
 
 "My mother and wife were happy to sit quietly and watch the match with me and my father. I don't remember when was the last time we all had watched a cricket match together, without my mother and wife switching the channel during every break and often fighting with us over the remote and forcing us to take half-an-hour breaks to allow them to watch their favourite serial," said Kaushik Dutta, an investment banker and a resident of Jadavpur.
 
 Flowing with the emotion leading to the match, former Bengal Women's coach Subhra Kundu called a group of young women cricketers at her home in Kasba to watch the match together. "This is a great day for us and what better way can I have than celebrate the power of women with all my students," said Kundu.
 
 After a delayed start of the match because of rain that reduced the game to a 42-over-a-side match, Harmanpreet Kaur's unbeaten knock of 171 helped Team India set Australia a mammoth target of 282 in the semi-final of the ICC Women's  . Harmanpreet, who scored her second ODI hundred, reached the triple figures in just 90 balls against Australia's formidable bowling unit.
 
 The 28-year old right-hander smashed 20 fours and seven maximums in her knock of 117 balls. She also registered the highest individual score by an Indian in the women's World Cup, going past Mithali Raj's 109, which came against New Zealand in India's last league match. When it came to bowling, India had a great start as pacers Shikha Pandey and Jhulan Goswami raked through the top order reducing Australia to 21 for 3. The Australian middle order steadied the innings a bit with the help of Ellyse Perry and Elyse Villani with a 100 plus stand but they were always lagged behind the required run rate.
 
