TRICHY: The   (LPA) will serve a final notice to seven multi-storey commercial buildings which have contributed heavily to the congestion at Thillai Nagar 10th and 11th cross streets by converting their designated parking space in basements to shopping area. 

 Such violations result in haphazard parking on the pedestrian pathways and roadsides creating traffic congestion on the busy city roads. The empowered body is likely to go ahead with sealing these buildings for deviating from their plan by setting up shops for commercial gain. 
 
 Traffic congestion has been going beyond control in these areas known for their vibrant commercial activity while posing danger to pedestrians. A public interest litigation was filed before the   by the Consumer Protection Council, Tamil Nadu protesting against the encroachment of car parking space in the basement of Thillai Nagar buildings and seeking their removal. 
 
 A senior LPA official said that "a final notice will be served to these buildings within a week. If the reply is not satisfactory, the building would be sealed. In no way can the violation be justified by the building owners as it goes against the town and country planning norms," said secretary of Consumer Protection Council S Pushpavanam. 
 
 For instance, a multi storey building on 11th Cross was to set apart 302.84 sq metres of its 1035.52 sq.m of basement area for parking. But the owner set up shops in the entire area without leaving any space for parking, he said. There are six other similar buildings and the LPA had taken note of it and served notice following the PIL. The proceedings in respect of those notices would be concluded as per law within the maximum period of three months effective from December 1 last. 
 
 Section 101 of the   says no injunction shall be granted by any court of law against the notices served to any person by the planning authority under Section 56 or under S57 of this Act. Hence, the action cannot be prevented by the violators. 
 
 It is pointed out that the violation is not restricted to Thillai Nagar alone. This has been the case in most areas with thriving commercial activity in the city including Shastri Road, Singara Thopu, NSB Road and Palakarai which had been adding up to the congestion in the city, said Pushpavanam. 
 
