RAIPUR: Taking a Hindi metaphor "tote ki tarah ratna" to criminal extreme, a government school teacher asked his students to by-heart their lessons "like a parrot" and on failing to do so, they were forced to gulp down red-chili powder mixed water after being told that "parrots eat chilies. The teacher has been suspended and an inquiry has been ordered.

 Six students of Class VII at Khairjhiti government middle school of   were weak in studies, fed up with their underperformance, their teacher   asked them to get red-chilli powder from home. The students were then asked to mix the powder in water and gulp it down.
 
 According to information, when the students narrated the incident to their parents, they approached the principal.
 
 Accepting his mistake, the teacher explained that he experimented on the phrase "Tote ke samaan ratne" (learn by heart like a parrot) on students. He felt that as parrots fondly eat chilies, (and are known for their 'rat na' prowess) administering a dose of red chili water to students would actually help them enhance their powers of rote-learning.
 
 Though the incident took place in December, the authorities concerned initially suppressed it fearing that it would spark a controversy.
  
 When contacted, in charge district education officer   said, "The case came to my knowledge on Friday evening and an enquiry has been ordered in the case. Prima facie the incident was found to be true, hence, the teacher was suspended. Now, further punishment would be decided once departmental inquiry report is submitted."
  
 Education department officials said that the students were shy-natured and hesitated to speak up before the teacher openly. They were also weak in studies and found it difficult to express their inability to grasp. Instead of breaking the ice of shyness, the teacher pressurized them to drink chilli water.
  
 Reacting over the incident, renowned educationist Dr   told TOI, "Forcing children gulp down chilli water is a part of   which is a crime. This not only causes anguish and pain among children but also lead to further drop out of schools which is already a matter of concern in Chhattisgarh."
  
 He added that the psychology behind such incidents taking place quite frequently in remote areas, is the teaching methodology of memorization of lessons and secondly showing off the power of a conditioned mind. Children are already overburdened, they shouldn't be put through such harassment.
  
 TOI in the recent past had reported similar incidents from remote regions of Chhattisgarh wherein a teacher in Jashpur had asked minor girls to write "I Love you" in their textbooks and molested them on refusal to do so. In another incident, a teacher asked students to massage him at staff room when they went to get their classwork checked. 
 
