BHOPAL: Sixty-nine officers, including 47 from   (IAS) and 11 from   (SAS) and other services have been deployed in forthcoming assembly election duty in five states. Deployment of such a large number of officers is likely to hit state administration and government plans in next couple of months. 

 As the election commission announced the poll schedule for five state assemblies -- Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Manipur, Goa and Uttarakhand, on Wednesday, it appointed administrative staff from various states to monitor the election process. 
 
 "Of the 69 officers, 47 belong to IAS cadre and 11 each belong to SAS. The officers will undergo training as the code of conduct has already been imposed by the election commission after the poll announcement," said MP Election Commission joint commissioner S S Bansal.A majority of officers appointed for the election duty received information about their duties and have started making preparations for their first training session with the election commission on January 10 in New Delhi.
 
 This is the first time that the EC has deployed senior officers of the level of principal secretary, secretary and other posts for assembly elections. 
 
 Sources in the secretariat said that absence of senior officers from the state would severely affect work in the administration. "Madhya Pradesh government has ambitious plans for the coming months, including implementation of housing scheme, improvement in education and health system and speed up progress in panchayat, rural development, smart city projects and other schemes launched under the urban administration and development programmes. This would cause delay in the implementation for two to three months," said a senior officer in the state secretariat.As per the EC directives, the officers will undergo training in New Delhi before allotment of state and work. 
 
 Those who have been appointed include principal secretary, animal husbandry, Ashwini Kumar Rai; principal sectretary, cooperatives, Ajit Kesri: PS tribal welfare Ashok Shah, PS, renewable energy Arun Kumar Pande; OSD in secretariat Ramesh Thete, inspector general of stamps and registration Shiv Shekhar Shukla, secretary, sports and youth welfare Sachin Sinha, housing board commissioner  , secretary, woman and child development Dr Madhu Khare and revenue commissioner K K Khare.
 
 As part of Nagaroday campaign to implement central schemes, chief minister   instructed officials to visit districts in the state and communicate with beneficiaries to get proper feedback. The programme will get affected. 
 
 Those, who have been deployed include commissioner-cum-director culture Rajesh Prasad Mishra; panchayat raj commissioner Santosh Mishra; revenue board member S Suhail Ali; revenue commissioner Indore Shobhit Jain; secretary, mining Manoharlal Dubey; secretary handicraft, Renu Tiwari; PHE deputy secretary S S Kumre, Markfed managing director B M Sharma; secretary forest, N P Dehriya, higher education commissioner M B Ojha, Ujjain additional commissioner Dr Ashok Kumar Bhargava, AIDS director Masood Akhtar and revenue additional secretary Rajendra Singh.
 
 
