NEW DELHI: The Centre has decided to act as an arbitrator to persuade Haryana and Punjab to come to an amicable resolution of the dispute on construction of Sutlej   Link (SYL) canal and told the Supreme Court on Wednesday that a meeting had been convened at the “highest level” with representatives of the two warring states .

 SYL is a proposed 214-km canal to connect Sutlej and Yamuna rivers, 122 km of which is to be in Punjab and 92 km in Haryana. Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan came to an agreement on water-sharing in December 1981. The construction started in April 1982 but it was stopped in 1990 and the two states --Punjab and Haryana -- have been fighting a legal battle since then. While Punjab opposes construction of the dam and seeks re-evaluation of feasibility of the project in view of shortage of water, Haryana seeks implementation of the agreement to get its share of water.
 
 Appearing before a bench of Justices P C Ghose and Amitava Roy, Solicitor General Ranjit Kumar said the Centre is “very keen” to resolve the dispute by holding talks with both states and a high level meeting had been convened on April 20. The SG said the government would try its best to find out a solution and urged the court to grant time to the Centre to resolve the dispute. He requested the bench to defer hearing on Haryana government’s petition seeking its direction for execution of the apex court’s order.
 
 The apex court had given its verdict against Punjab and asked the state to implement its order to construct the canal. On a   reference, it had in 2016 passed its verdict and held Punjab’s law to terminate water sharing agreement with other states as “unconstitutional”.
 
 While adjourning the case, the bench made it clear that it would pass order for compliance of its earlier order if the dispute was not settled in the meeting and posted the case to April 27.
 
 Opposing construction of the canal, Punjab had earlier told the court that its opinion on a Presidential reference pertaining to the project was not binding and had pleaded the court to ask the Centre to play the role of an arbitrator to find out a political solution.
 
 The court had said Punjab would have to comply with its order on construction of the canal and it would pass order on execution of its decree if the states failed to come to an agreeable solution.
 
 “There are two orders by the court earlier and also a reference on the issue. Canal has to be constructed. The decree has to be executed either through legal process or parties themselves sit together and find out a solution. If Haryana and Punjab fail to sort out, we have to pass order,” the bench had said.
 
