NEW DELHI:   is reaching out to students, especially those in Class XII, for their feedback on the proposed changes to the admission policy. The students will be given 15 days to give their replies. The admission committee will also seek replies from other stakeholders and experts before finalising the policy.

 The new policy is expected to see large-scale changes, particularly for undergraduate courses. However, it’s not clear whether all recommendations will be implemented in the 2017-18 session, or in phased manner, as consensus eludes the committee on various issues.
 
 “We are seeking feedback from Class XII students as they are the main stakeholders in undergraduate admission. The format will be made available to schools, mostly Kendriya Vidyalayas because of their reach,” Manoj Khanna, convener of DU’s admission committee told TOI. The respondents will also be asked for their opinion on what kind of admission process they want and consider fair. The feedback form is expected to be finalised in a couple of days.
 
 Apart from KVs, the form will be made available to other schools as well. Based on the responses, the committee will take a final decision on the policy.
 
 “The proposals will be debated upon and discussed by the academic and executive councils, apart from other experts, so that all issues are taken into consideration. No decision will be taken in haste,” said Khanna.
 
 Even as the university seeks suggestions from stakeholders, sources say the admission committee itself is divided on various issues. 
 
 A senior DU official said, “Such large-scale changes should be notified at least six-to-eight months prior to admission. For example, the committee is divided on the issue of entrance examination. The magnitude of the exercise apart, a counter argument is that will this solve the core issue or are we just substituting one system with another? Will it solve the demand-supply issue? It won’t.”
 
 Some members are of the view that too many changes are being attempted in a short time. Another member of the committee said, “It is not necessary to implement all recommendations at one go.”
 
