MUMBAI:   of IMSR Medical College, Mayani, in Satara have started an indefinite hunger strike at   to protest against a delay by the state to regularize their admissions, in limbo since 2015. With the college downing its shutters, the students are staring at a bleak future. 

 Admissions of 95 students from the 2014-15 batch came under dispute after the college lost Medical Council of India (MCI) and   (MUHS) recognition in 2014. The management kept the students in the dark and went ahead with admissions, collecting nearly Rs 3 lakh as tuition and security charges from each of them. The students learnt about the loss of recognition only two days prior to their first year finals, when their hall tickets did not arrive.
 
 “We stand to lose our careers for no fault of ours,” said Abhishek Marathe, a student. He said MUHS should declare the results for their first year exams and they should be accommodated in other colleges. “We have not attended classes for more than a year,” he said. After protesting outside college and in front of the collector’s office in Satara, the students and their parents shifted their protest to the city on Monday.
 
 IMSR’s recognition was canceled for admitting students through Asso CET, conducted by the Association of Management of Unaided Private Medical and Dental Colleges (AMUPMDC), in defiance of a court order, which directed that students should be selected only through the state CET. When the irregularity came to light, the Pravesh Niyantran Samiti imposed a fine of Rs 20 crore (Rs 20 lakh for every student). The college, run by Shri Chhatrapati Shivaji Education Society, refused to pay the amount and shut down soon after. The group also runs ayurveda colleges and nursing schools.
 
 After facing dejection at the Bombay high court, the students approached the Supreme Court, which directed the state government to pay Rs 20 crore and recover the money from the college subsequently. It also said the state could decide the fate of students at its own level. In between, the SC termed their admissions invalid. The state government assured the students that they would try to place the affected students in other colleges.
 
 Directorate of Medical Education of Research head Dr Pravin Shingare said, “We need the permission of MCI, Union health ministry, MUHS and the state’s admission regulatory authority to place these students in other medical colleges. We also need the approval of other private colleges where they will be placed.” He said the collector has sent a notice to attach the college’s assets.
 
 
