NAGPUR: Some families take unusually more interest in   (NMC) politics than others. The   is a perfect example of such clannish politics. While uncle Jagdish is contesting from BJP, nephews Nitish and Harish are in the fray on   tickets. Whichever party comes to the power, the family will enjoy the fruits.

 Siblings, first cousins or couples — the clan factor is majorly at play in the coming civic polls. Political observers believe that the   factor serves to the family’s advantage. “In Indian politics, winning the seat has always been a priority. Having multiple members contesting from one family is a good way of securing seats,” says political analyst Anjali Gaidhane.
 
 To increase the chances of winning, members of the same clan don’t mind taking tickets from opposing parties. “End result is all that matters, and not clinging to party loyalties or ideologies. They just want to be there in the game with backups,” Gaidhane added.
 
 Couples are also in the fray — mostly from the same wards. Avinash and Baby Kumbhalkar are both contesting from ward no 31. Ravikant and Surekha Meshram, residents of Nandanvan, are contesting from the same ward and same party. While Ravikant is contesting for the second time, this is his wife’s electoral debut. “Contesting as a couple from the same party helps. We are campaigning together at the expenditure of one candidate,” says Ravikant.
 
 Vanita and Khemraj Damahe are both contesting independently from ward no 1. “Against our expectations, we didn’t get ticket from a party. Still, we both decided to contest. Whether he wins or me, it would mean the same,” says Vanita.
 
 Couple dynamics in politics depends on performance and perception, says Gaidhane. “When couples are contesting from the same ward, ‘who will win’ depends on individual’s past performance and how people see them individually.”
 
 Sister duo Puneshwari and Yogita Shahu, who are one of the youngest candidates, are contesting from different wards but same party. “Our father wanted us both to enter politics. Since we are fighting from different wards, there is no internal competition in the family,” says Yogita. 
 
 This election is also witnessing dynastic politics. While Kamlesh Chaudhari is contesting on a Congress ticket from ward no 14, his mother Meena is in fray as an independent from ward 12. Kamlesh’s late father Dilip was also an independent corporator. “Even when members of the same family contest, personal image of every member matters the most. There are many examples where the first generation enjoyed immense public popularity but the second one fell flat on its face,” says Kamlesh.
 
 “Members of the same family can have different ideologies and working styles. Ultimately, what you do for the public decides the outcome,” Nitish Gwalbanshi said.
 
