

 On the back of sexual harrassment complaints by a female passenger, Air India, the national carrier, recently announced it would set apart six seats for women in Economy. Like the women’s-only floor in some hotels. The ‘ladies’ compartment on the local or the metro. The seats on a public bus. All female sanctuaries fencing off randy predators who think women in public spaces are fair game. 
 
 You’d think the 21st century would have rendered gendered ‘reservations’ obsolete. That by this time, the whole world would mirror post-gender Europe with its gender-neutral loos (stand up or sit down). What we have instead is a creative cloning of women-only spaces designed to let women travel, work, sleep, exercise and even network with the sisterhood. Out of bounds of men. But do segregated spaces bring us closer to the feminist ideal of a level ground, or take us farther away from it? 
 
 “There is no easy yes-or-no side to fall back on,” says Asmita Ghosh, digital editor at   In India. “The importance of safe spaces for women is undeniable. They provide a sanctuary from an often hostile male environment where women are constantly made to feel uncomfortable or objectified by the male gaze, not to mention frequently molested or harassed. Segregated spaces also foster the possibility for social bonding and solidarity with other women which is very important in a world that constantly pits women against each other,” adds Ghosh. 
 
 The search for a space that lets them bench-press without worrying if a man is sizing them up has contributed to the success of single-sex gyms like Contours, which has outlets in Bengaluru, Pathankot, Vijayawada and Chennai. “At unisex gyms I’d notice women were self-conscious around men who’d snigger or stare. They’d then abandon their routines midway. At a women’s only gym, they’re able to exercise with abandon,” says Chandra Gopalan who brought the American brand to India. Even the conversations, Gopalan says, are different. “You’ll hear someone shouting from across the room that they’ve got their period and won’t be doing a certain exercise that day, or someone else discussing a brand of sports bra,” she says. They have pot luck, movie night, and breakout dance sessions. 
 
 While some see   running counter to the gender-equal current, others view them as emancipatory and empowering as it allows women to stake a place in the public sphere and partake in a life that might have been off-limits to them because of sexual risks. Six seats on a public bus dedicated to women may be grossly inadequate, but they guarantee women untroubled travel. (But then claiming a ‘general’ seat is seen as appropriating the male space.) 
 
 “It’s a chicken and egg situation,” says Elsa D’Silva wryly. The co-founder of SafeCity, the crowd-sourced map that geotags sexual abuse, acknowledges that we need segregated spaces because public spaces are still unsafe for women. “But instead of concentrating on making them safe for us, people take the easy way out and segregate them,” she points out. D’Silva, who is incidentally a revenue management specialist in aviation, says Air India’s move is impractical, because it compels the airline to either keep the allotted seats vacant even if they have no takers, or corral women into them. She says the Civil Aviation Requirement (rules to meet basic standards of safety on an aircraft) make no reference to sexual harassment by unruly passengers, a point D’Silva has raised in a letter to the DGCA and Civil Aviation ministry. “I pointed out that cases of sexual harassment on airplanes are increasing. But what is needed is stricter penalties, quicker redress and not the victimizing (or sequestering) of women,” she says, adding that it’s fine for women to create their own safe spaces, as long they’re self-generated, on their terms. 
 
 Ghosh seconds this. “It is important that these safe spaces are not enforced upon women, or depicted as our only option for ‘safety’,” she argues.
 
 In a biting column titled ‘This is why we have women-only spaces, and why I don’t want to hear your complaints’, Clementine Ford, author of Fight Like A Girl, underscores the impossible situation women find themselves in. “Establish women’s only spaces and you’re discriminating against men. Talk openly about the risks you face and you’re inflicting a perverse and paranoid view of masculinity on the world that’s ‘unfair’,” she writes, going on to advocate that women need the freedom to determine who and what they consider a risk to them, and design the spaces and mechanisms to stave off those risks. 
 
 In a hyper-patriarchal society like India, these spaces and mechanisms are best created conjointly by both sexes, believes Dr Ravi Verma, regional director (Asia) at International Center for Research on Women (ICRW). The organisation has been working with low- to middle-income communities in several cities, educating them about gender education and violence awareness. “As women enter more public spaces, they experience a pushback from men who feel these are not their natural spaces. The violence is not only physical but also psychological. It demeans and humiliates them,” he says.
 
 What we need to do is to make public spaces uniformly safe. "When you characterise spaces as ‘safe’ and ‘unsafe’, you invariably give men a sense of impunity to act as they please in ‘unsafe’ spaces." Verma also says there’s no evidence to suggest that by creating segregated spaces you make women any safer. Reserving seats on an aircraft is a symbolic move that becomes ridiculously rhetorical." Verma pushes for an environment that acknowledges them as equal citizens — with a right to be everywhere.
 
 
 
 
 * US has over 5,000single-sex co-working spaces complete with hair-braiding and lactation rooms
 * UK's Glastonbury music festival introduced a women-only venue, the Sisterhood, last year
 * In may, a Chinese city began offering extra-large parking spaces framed in pink. The wide slots were described as a ``humane measure'' because women have trouble parking. Perth in Australia has also trialled female-friendly parking zones.
 * Cities like Toronto, Paris, New York have women-only clubs that offer a chance to network over a drink
 
