PATNA: RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s family seems to be more of a clan of business barons than politicians.
 
  If the website of ministry of corporate affairs, which contains information related to registered companies, is anything to go by, Lalu’s two daughters – third daughter   and fourth daughter   – are directors in four companies. Apart from these four companies, Chanda is director in yet another company. Four of these five firms are registered in New Delhi.
  
  Lalu’s elder son, health and forest minister Tej Pratap Yadav, too floated a firm – Shivoaham Entertainment Private Limited – on July 5, 2016. The firm has two more directors – Bhojpuri singer Chotu Chaliya and Kumar Priye Ranjan. The firm’s registered address is Lalujee Ka Gaushala, near R P S Mor, Krishna Gokul Road, Danapur, Patna.
  
  Lalu’s wife Rabri Devi and younger son and deputy CM   are directors in  . They together hold sizable chunk of shares in the firm as well as in A K Infosystems Pvt. Ltd. Tej Pratap too is director in Lara Projects.
  
  Lara Projects LLP, earlier Lara Projects Private Limited, was incorporated on June 10, 1981 and its registered address is D-1088, New Friends Colony, New Delhi. The three directors in the firm, engaged in site preparation works, are Tejashwi, Tej Pratap and Rabri.
  
  Similarly, Lara Distributors Private Limited was incorporated on June 17, 2005 and its registered address is 208, Kautilya Nagar, B V College, M P M L A Colony, Patna. The four directors in the firm include Rabri, Ragini, Chanda and Lalu’s eldest daughter and Rajya Sabha MP Misa Bharti.
  
  A K Infosystems Private Limited, which, according to senior BJP functionary Sushil Kumar Modi is a “shell company” formed by Lalu clan, was incorporated on September 28, 2006 and its registered address is C-654, New Friends Colony, New Delhi. Though the registration documents of A K Infosystems state that it only deals with data processing, Modi has alleged that the firm owns vast pieces of land at prime locations in Patna.
  
  A B Exports Private Limited was incorporated on February 16, 1996 and its registered address too is D-1088, New Friends Colony, south Delhi. The two directors in the firm are Chanda and Ragini and it is involved in wholesale of household goods.
  
  Similarly, Fairgrow Holdings Pvt Ltd was incorporated on November 18, 1991 and its registered office address is 130/1 Bakul Bagan Roads, Bhowanipur, Kolkata, West Bengal. The two directors in the firm are Chanda and Ragini and it is involved in manufacture of general purpose machinery.
  
  Sunrise IT Infrasoft Private Limited was incorporated on June 30, 2005 and its registered office address is Shop No. 1, Rao Ami Lal Market, Kapashera, New Delhi. The three directors in the firm are Chanda Yadav, her husband Vikram Yadav and one Virendra  . The firm is involved in software publishing, consultancy and supply work activities.
  
  Both Chanda and Ragini were directors in Delight Marketing Co. Pvt Limited as well till November, 2016, when it was rechristened as Lara Projects Private Limited.
  
  The BJP has alleged that all these companies were formed to convert black money of Lalu family into white by making investments in real estate in lieu of corporate and political favours made during Lalu’s tenure as railway minister and Rabri’s stint as Bihar CM.
  
  “Lalu’s family members, his close aide and former Union corporate affairs minister Prem Chand Gupta had floated around 25 shell companies, mostly registered in New Delhi. These companies were formed after 2000, when Rabri became CM of Bihar for the next four years. The process continued between 2004 and 2009 as well when Lalu was railway minister. They formed companies to channelize the black money they generated through illegitimate business and political deals. They were not touched by even investigating agencies till 2014 as they were alliance partners in UPA-II,” Modi told TOI.
  
  RJD spokesperson Mrityunjay Tiwari, however, said all business deals were done in a transparent manner. “Modi wants to create a rift in the grand alliance by levelling false allegations against Lalu ji’s family members and challenging CM Nitish Kumar to take action against them,” he added. 
