As a symbol of love and respect for their alma mater, former students of some of the oldest city colleges are taking a lead to give complete makeover to their respective colleges. It doesn’t matter if the   are living in California or Nagpur, they are all coming together to give an international edge to their institutions. Here’s the lowdown on this selfless initiative… 

 
 In a first of its kind initiative, the former students of 68-year-old medical college recently gifted two digital podiums costing `10 lakh to their campus. Secretary of the alumni association, Dr Vibhavari Dani, says, “GMCH was in need of a digital podium where students and faculty members can conduct various research and lecture series. And our alumni association offered to build two podiums, equipped with state-of-the-art technology for modern teaching. Now the students will be able to use various electronic gadgets and do online research for their thesis work. This initiative will ensure that the standard of our college is on par with the best institutes in India and abroad.”
 
 
 
 Mathuradas Mohota College of Science will soon get a hi-tech auditorium, courtesy its ex-students’ association. Principal of the college Dr SG Charalwar informs, “Recently, we had an alumni gathering, wherein former students of all the batches came together. On this occasion, they told us that they shall gift an auditorium with a capacity of 1000 seats to the college. It is good to know that our ex-students still have a deep connection with their institution. Our campus needed an auditorium for various events; we are really touched by this sweet gesture.”
 
 
 
 As part of its 75th anniversary celebrations, the alumni association of Laxminarayan Institute of Technology ( ) decided to offer their alma mater a library with digital access as well as a modern laboratory. Director of the college Dr Raju Mankar says, “Earlier, our alumni association had donated furniture for the college. On the occasion of our 75th anniversary recently, our former students from India and abroad came together and offered to build a library equipped with digital access and a modern laboratory. We can’t thank them enough for this endeavour.”
 
 
 
 While many city colleges are getting generous support from their alumni to build modern infrastructure, the ex-students of Priyadarshini College of Engineering and Technology have offered placement support for the current students. Principal of the college Dr Vivek Nanoti says, “The students who have graduated from our college are working in some of the biggest IT companies around the world and we are deeply touched by their gesture of offering current students a strong placement support. Our alumni will help the collegians get placed in the some of the topnotch IT companies and also offer them guidance.”
 
