CUTTACK: In a major blow to the   government, the   on Thursday quashed the new rules it had made allowing political party agents to check votes of members during the election of   functionaries.

 The government, in the middle of the panchayat election, had through a notification on March 8 amended the Zilla Parishad Election Rules, 1994. The new rule mandated every elected zilla parishad member to show the ballot paper to the agent for verification before dropping it into the ballot box. 
 
 Zilla Parishad election is fought on party symbols and elected members elect the president and vice-president in secret ballots.
 
 A division bench of Chief Justice Vineet Saran and Justice B R Sarangi observed that the March 8 notification by the panchayati raj department incorporating changes in section 51 of Zilla Parishad (ZP) Election Rules while the panchayat election was on, was unconstitutional. The court's verdict came in response to a petition filed by Sukhlal Munda, an elected ZP member of the BJP from Sundargarh district. The petitioner had challenged the amendment saying the move on the part of the government while the panchayat election process was underway was illegal and undemocratic.
 
 The petitioner had also stated that verification of the ballot paper by the political agents before they are inserted into the ballot boxes was a clear violation of the secrecy provision granted in the Representation of the Peoples Act, 1951.
 
 During hearing of the case, the state election commission (SEC) had also strongly opposed the amendments. SEC counsel Pitambar Acharya had argued in the court that the government has no power to intervene and alter the electoral law in the middle of the electoral process.
 
 The court observed that after the start of the panchayat election process, it is the state election commission which has all the powers. "So neither the legislature nor executive can enact laws or make changes in the existing ones at this time," Acharya said.
 
 "We had highlighted that the state government is required to make a prepublication of the amendment for the knowledge of all stakeholders before issuing a notification, which was not done in this case. The court has taken note of our argument," said Ashok Mohapatra, the petitioner's counsel. 
 
 The election to the president's post in 28 zilla parishads was conducted on March 12 as per the amended rules. But in the backdrop of Thursday's verdict by the high court, speculation is rife election that may be declared illegal as well. 
 
 The undue haste the government showed to amend the ZP rules is being widely seen as the BJD's desperate attempt to keep its flock together in the face of growing popularity of the BJP, which won a considerable number of seats in the panchayat election.
 
 
 
