NAGPUR: Farcical comedies are safest bet for theatre as the light-hearted banter of actors and the wayward direction of the plot all works well for the audience. Put it in a setting of the rarefied atmosphere in which the extra rich dwell and it’s sure to extract more laughs. 

 Four 2Ka 1 a Hinglish play presented by Stagecraft theatre on Saturday at the RGIIPM auditorium, Civil Lines, did all this and much more.
 
 The plot enfolds at the residence of a couple celebrating their 20th wedding anniversary. When the friends begin to arrive they realize that there is an ugly situation at home as the host has shot himself in the earlobe and the hostess is missing. 
 
 In their effort to protect their friend and to save the situation they begin to first lie with each other and then spin a superb yarn for the cops. The drama and humour lies in how all this gets executed.
 
 A cast of eight actors delights with their chatter, eccentricities and bumbling ways. That almost all of them are engaged in serious professions in real lives makes their effort all the more enjoyable. 
 
 The couples Prachi Sharma and   who are first to arrive and discover the disaster that has happened at their friends residence live up the part. Prachi especially wins over with a very realistic performance of an addled wife trying to figure out the mess. 
 
 Radhika Joshi and Lalit Khullar play the more suave and worldly wise couple who know how to find their way out of the mess. Vivek Daga and   look the part of an uppity high society couple.
 
 And though there is not a moment free of drama or humour as the three couples bumble and potter around the house lying and conniving with each other and together, the exciting moments happen when Inspector  , played by  , arrives on the scene. Chandra who has also written the play, essays a stereotyped character of Bihari pan-chewing cop but rises above the cliché.
 
 Under the direction of Vikash Khurana, Four Two Ka One pepped up an otherwise lazy Saturday afternoon. There will be two shows of the play on Sunday at 3pm and 7pm at the same venue.
 
