AMRITSAR: The Supreme Court’s (SC) ruling that candidates seeking votes in the name of religion, caste, community or language could be disqualified from an election may just endanger the prospects of parties that rely heavily on ‘Panthic’ and caste votes in Punjab.

 A professor of political science at Amritsar-based Guru   (GNDU),  , felt the real challenge would be in the implementation of the SC ruling. “The court has given its ruling; now, the   will have to follow these directions,” he said. “Deciding which act amounts to violation of the ruling will be another challenge.”
 
 He added that many parties banked on religious and caste votes, and these two issues were the very foundation of such parties. “If a party has a scheme for Dalits, one can raise a finger that it is declared to appease a particular caste. However, on the other hand, the same could be the policy of a particular party,” he said.
 
 Though none of the leaders of parties admit to using religious places for political purposes, it is well known that gurdwara complexes and infrastructure are used for rallies. Sikh charitable body Chief Khalsa Diwan member A S Mahal said the biggest reason behind this was that politicians often interpreted the Sikh concept of Miri Piri to their convenience. Miri Piri lays down that temporal authority and spirtual authority are linked together. 
 
 He added that there had been several cases where leaders had even twisted the Gurbani. “This has to be stopped,” he said. “I hope these practices come to an end with the SC ruling.”
 
 On the issue of SAD allowing candidates to contest   (SGPC) elections on its symbol, Prof Kuldip Singh said SGPC was the only democratically elected religious body in the world. He said there was no harm if SAD sought votes for SGPC and allowed its candidates to use its election symbol. “They are not asking votes for a legislative assembly, but for a religious body. There is no violation,” he said, adding that issues pertaining to religion were being taken up during SGPC elections and not for the state’s governance.
 
 Another Sikh scholar, Professor Balwant Singh Dhillon, said the court’s ruling was appreciable, but it couldn’t change the principals of religion as enshrined in the ‘Miri Piri’ concept. “All politicians, especially Sikh political parties, have to learn to draw a line between religion and politics,” he said.
 
 Road ahead
 
 The SC’s ruling that parties can’t seeks votes on basis of religions faces three major challenges:
 
 Implementation: The Election Commission will have to ensure that no party uses religion or caste to seek votes. For this, it will have to keep a strict check on how parties conduct their campaigns.
 
 Defining violations: According to experts, there are parties in India whose very foundation is based on caste and religion. They say it is going to be tough to zero in on an act that amounts to the violation of the SC ruling. 
 
 Miri Piri: The Sikh concept of ‘Miri Piri’ lays down that temporal and spiritual components of human life are tied closely. Experts say parties often twist the concept to suit their convenience and this needs to be stopped.
 
