AURANGABAD: Activists associated with the students’ and teachers’ groups have blamed B A Chopade, vice-chancellor of Dr   ( ), of not showing interest in the functioning of the varsity. 

 Chopade has recently crossed half-way mark of his five-year term. Sources said he was in contention for the   post of Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) and coveted posts at the   (UGC).
 
 Activists said that during his stint so far, Bamu has not been able to appoint key statutory posts, including registrar and controller of examinations, for over two years, besides failing to resolve some crucial academic issues. The latest answersheet rewriting scam had brought huge disrepute to the university, they said.
 
 Sunil Magare, founder secretary of Maharashtra Underprivileged Teachers’ Association, said Chopade has failed to fulfil high expectations associated with his selection as Bamu VC.
 
 “Hopes were high that Chopade would take the university to new heights, but latest developments suggest otherwise. It is unexpected of him to seek new career options just half way through his stint as VC. He seems to be losing interest in Bamu, which is not good for one of the oldest state-run universities,” he said.
 
 Chopade, who was serving as professor at the department of microbiology of SPPU, was appointed as Bamu VC on June 3, 2014. 
 
 Student activist Tukaraf Saraf said Chopade eyeing greener pastures would have adverse impact on university functioning. “It is not advisable to have VC searching for career options in the midst of his term. It could lead to him losing focus on administrative and academic works,” he said.
 
 Speaking with TOI, Chopade refuted that he was losing interest in Bamu. “I always have high regards for Marathwada and Bamu in my heart, which is why I chose to come to Aurangabad,” he said, adding that he was giving his cent per cent to the day-to-day functioning of the university. 
 
 As regards to vying for post of VC for Pune varsity, Chopade said certain elements had recommended his name. He remained mum on his decision to take part in UGC selection process.
 
 Chopade added that the changes in the law governing universities in the state was one of the main reason for the delay in making appointments for the key posts at the university.
 
