Saving all of Hyderabad’s lakes might be a Herculean task, but for this determined group, nothing is impossible. Tired of authorities’ apathy towards the deplorable condition of the city’s lakes, a motley bunch of denizens — conservationists, architects, students, professors and the general public — has launched an initiative called ‘Live The Lakes’ that will, in their words, “connect local communities to the lakes and restore them”. 

 
 By involving local residents, the group plans to start the restoration process at the basic level and believes that will consequently sensitise people about conservation of water bodies and prevent them from causing 
 pollution, too. 
 “We want to identify the lakes that need restoration and start the process before handing them over to the local communities to ensure that they are protected from encroachment and pollution thereafter,” says  , founder of  .
 So far, the campaign is underway at three lakes on the city outskirts —   in Kondapur,   in Seri Lingampally and   near Miyapur. Plans are afoot to include more lakes under the initiative soon. 
 “We are looking at reviving 62 more lakes in the Seri Lingampally area,” says Kalpana. The initiative also aims at roping in planners and architects to come up with a holistic development plan for cheaper and efficient ways to treat sewage through natural ways, and to send treated water to the lake, added the group members.
 
 
 
 Asked about the initiative, officials of the   (GHMC) said they have heard about the initiative and will offer full support to the “conscious citizens”. “GHMC supports the ‘Live the Lakes’ initiative. In fact, we are willing to partner with every NGO and local communities working for the conservation of city lakes. The civic body will look into the development aspect in such initiatives, while respective NGOs must look into their maintenance,” says  , Central Zone Commissioner, GHMC.
 
 
 
 The initiative has generated great enthusiasm among the locals. For Linga Reddy, a retired government official residing at Doyen’s colony in Seri Lingampally who now heads the initiative’s Gopi Cheruvu chapter, the lake clean-up campaign has given them hope. 
 “A decade ago, the lake was clean and had a lot of fish. Now it’s full of garbage and is shrinking due to encroachment. But, after the clean-up drive, we will not let anyone dump garbage and pollute our lake. We have started issuing warnings to offenders and stopped vehicles from dumping debris and sundry garbage in the lake,” he says. 
 Similarly, Shiva Kumar of Deepthi Sree colony near the Regulakunta Lake, is upbeat about cleaning the lake. “We began the drive last month by cleaning plastic and other garbage. More than 30 volunteers have participated in the week-long drive and we hope to complete it soon,” he shares. 
 
 
