NASHIK: The Nationalist   (NCP)will be locked in a fierce electoral battle with the   to retain its supremacy in the Nashik zilla parishad, which will also go into polls on Tuesday. 

 The outgoing 73-member Nashik ZP had the NCP in control with 27 seats, followed by Shiv Sena 17, Congress 14, BJP 4, MNS 3 and 5 independents.
 
 Now, the NCP and Congress have formed an alliance for 31 seats in the ZP polls. The Shiv Sena and the BJP are contesting independently for the first time and have not formed any alliance.
 
 In the ZP polls, demonetisation and farmers’ suicides are main poll planks on which the non-BJP parties have tried to woo the voters.
 
 Although the NCP has its traditional voters in the rural parts of the district, this time, the Sena has also made considerable impression among the voters due to its stand against the Centre and the state government on issues like demonetisation, farmers suicide and farm loan waiver in the state. 
 
 “Sena, with its aggressive campaigning against the ruling BJP, will pose problems for the NCP in the ZP polls,” noted a political observer.
 
 The biggest problem for the NCP in Nashik is that unlike the last time, their key leader,  , is not there to formulate strategy and mobilise resources for the NCP candidates in the polls. Bhujbal is behind bars for the last 11 months after he was arrested by the   in money laundering case. 
 
 And with no other prominent leaders of the party campaigning for the candidates, the local unit of the NCP is managing the show by itself to woo the voters to ensure that it retains power in the Nashik ZP
 
 What has further complicated matters for NCP is that its senior leader and former MP   too has been arrested by anti-corruption bureau (ACB).
 
 Pingle too is a force to reckon with in the rural parts of Nashik and his absence are is being felt by the NCP unit.
 
 BJP leaders admitted that the party does not have much stake in the Nashik ZP polls. “We have decided to field our own candidates. This is help us to reach to the rural voters to see their responses towards the party,” a senior BJP leader said. 
 
 Apart from the 73 seats in ZP, polls are also taking place for 15 panchayat samitis. 
 
