Madurai: Self-styled godman and founder of Nithyananda Dhyanapeetam, Nithyananda has filed a petition before the Madurai bench of the Madras high court seeking a direction to the commissioner of police of Madurai to provide protection as he along with his disciples want to perform rituals at the Madurai Aadheenam. The case will come up for hearing before justice V M Muralidaran on Thursday. 

 It may be recalled that Madhurai Aadheenam’s 292nd pontiff Arunagirinatha had appointed Nithyananda as his junior pontiff on April 27, 2012. People of various walks of life widely criticised the pontiff’s action as Nithyananda was caught in an alleged sex tape scandal in 2010. This led to the pontiff removing him from the post on October 21, 2012 and file a case before the high court bench seeking to declare his appointment as invalid, the case, which is pending. Besides, he appointed V Thirunavukarasu of Pillaiarpatti in Sivaganga district as his successor on April 21 last year. Challenging the appointment, Nithyananda has filed a suit before the Madurai sub-court in September last year, which is also pending. 
 
 In his petition, Nithyananda said, “My appointment as the 293rd pontiff of the Madurai Aadheenam, as per custom and rituals is revocable. ‘Acharya Abishekam’ for appointing a pontiff can be done once in a lifetime. It was performed to me. Hence, I am the junior pontiff of Aadheenam. I am not restrained by any court of law from this position. Any other appointment including that of Thirunavukarasu is invalid.” He also said certain vested interests are preventing him and his disciples from discharging religious and spiritual duties of performing pujas and providing free food. “The illegal elements are threatening me and my disciples with dire consequences when we visit the math for performing daily activities. If they are permitted to act in such a manner, illegal activities will be indirectly encouraged. Hence, the court should direct the police to give protection to me and my disciples to perform duties including the role and responsibility as the 293rd pontiff,” Nithyananda said. 
 
 He also said he gave a representation in that regard to Madurai police.
 
 
