NEW DELHI: A day after the   raided properties associated with RJD chief  , the   ( ) on Saturday raided three Delhi farmhouses belonging to his daughter  , in connection with a money laundering case probe.

 The ED raided the farmhouses in Ghitorni, Bijwasan and   early on Saturday morning.
 
 These raids come a day after Lalu accused the BJP of targeting him and his family members to exact "political vendetta".
 
 The ED is investigating a 'benami' land deals and tax evasion case allegedly involving family members of Lalu. Income Tax (I-T) officials said they want to question Prasad's MP daughter and her husband Shailesh Kumar, but both have skipped I-T summons in the past.
 
 Bharti and her husband allegedly have links with a firm -- Ms Mishail Packers and Printers Private Limited-- which is suspected to have entered into 'benami' deals for the purchase of a farm house in Delhi's Bijwasan area, reported PTI last month. A chartered accountant, Rajesh Kumar Agrawal, allegedly linked to Bharti and others, was arrested by the ED on May 22.
 
  
  
 
 
 Separately, the CBI said on Friday that it registered a case on July 5 against former railway minister Lalu and others for an alleged "conspiracy" through which he acquired three acres of land in Patna worth Rs 32 crores for "a mere Rs 54 lakhs." 
 
 It's alleged that when he was railway minister, tenders for the maintenance of two Railways hotels were "fixed" to favour a particular company, in exchange for which Lalu got the three acres of land.
 
 
 
 
 The CBI on Friday conducted simultaneous raids in 12 locations associated with Lalu and the others accused, including in Patna, Ranchi, Bhubaneswar and Gurugram. Also named in the CBI's case are Lalu's wife   and his son Tejashwi.
 
 Lalu said on Friday that there was no reason to involve Rabri and Tejashwi in the investigation as his wife is "not even a public servant."
 
 "Because of their (the BJP's) political vendetta, they are making constant attacks on my family. They want us to bow down before the BJP," said Lalu.
 
 "I and my party will not be cowed. It is a conspiracy against me," he added.
 
 
 
