NEW DELHI: Aam Aadmi Party released its first list of 109 candidates for the upcoming municipal elections on Friday. If the list is anything to go by, the party’s focus will be on women and youth. The list consists of 64 candidates who are in the age-group of 20-35 years. Against 46 seats reserved for women,   has given tickets to 49 women candidates. Around 18-19 seats spread across the three corporations have been given to Poorvanchali candidates.

 So far, only Swaraj India has announced 25 candidates for the elections. “More than 50% of the seats will be given to women, as indicated in the first list. The party is setting a new benchmark for women’s representation and wherever women deserve to contest, they will be given tickets,” said Ashish Talwar, AAP’s Delhi in-charge.
 
 Prominent youth faces in the list, all of whom the party claims are those who have risen through the ranks, include AAP’s state president for its youth wing, Ankush Narang; Manpreet from the party’s Sikh and minority wing; Ramesh, a sitting councillor; Manoj Kumar and Pankaj Gupta.
 
 Promila Gupta, a member of the  , has been given a ticket from Timarpur, a controversial constituency for AAP where AAP MLA Pankaj Pushkar has openly aligned with Yogendra Yadav’s Swaraj Abhiyan.
 
 Prominent among those who joined AAP from other parties and who have been given tickets is Sanjay Puri, a former Congress member who resigned from the party when he was denied a ticket for the 2015 assembly elections and joined AAP. The other candidate is Kiran Chadha, the wife of a former BJP councillor.
 
 “We have followed a strict selection process where teams went out to check on candidates where required. The party’s parliamentary affairs committee took the final decision. We will be releasing all names for the elections very soon. We shortlisted candidates on parameters like corruption, criminality, character and winability,” said Dilip Pandey, AAP’s Delhi convener. Sources indicated that the entire list would be announced before March 11, the day when results for the ongoing state assembly elections will be announced.
 
 The civic elections, where the incumbent BJP will be fighting to retain its hold over the three municipal corporations and through which Congress hopes for a political revival in Delhi, is the first local poll for AAP. Its main campaign planks will be sanitation, corruption and demonetisation, for which the party has already launched a citywide campaign. “AAP’s campaign on the ground has been going on for several months, but now the candidates who have been finalised will start door-to-door campaigning immediately,” said a party source.
 
