Nagpur: The Vansh Nimay Infraprojects Limited (VNIL) has approached the industries, energy and labour department to seek permission of close down Nagpur city bus service under section 25-O of the industrial disputes act, 1947. Against the backdrop of the closure notice, VNIL staffers, under the banner of Maharashtra General Kamgar Union, on Monday, convened a meeting to decide future course of action. Santosh Kanerkar, convener of Maharashtra General Kamgar Union, addressed a large gathering of Vansh Nimay employees at Mor Bhavan.  The workers unanimously decided to give last chance to municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar and city police commissioner K Venkatesh to consider their plea of continuation of their service through new four bus operators and take the decision by February 1. “If they fail to take any decision, not only will we knock the court’s door, we will also be forced to take to streets to fulfil our demands,” warned Kanerkar.  In a letter to the secretary to the government of Maharashtra, S Subramanian, VNIL managing director sighted reason to close down the service as the NMC, the principal employee to operate city bus service, has terminated the 10-year agreement from midnight of February 28, 2017. The number of workmen whose services will be terminated is 1,226.  In its letter, the MD stated that the company has been incurring losses. The loss reported for the financial year that ended on March 31, 2016 was Rs24 crore and the accumulated loss as of that date was Rs150 crore.  Further, the company has a negative net worth of Rs135 crore as on March 31, 2016 and the losses incurred for the nine months of the current financial year up to December 31, 2016 was Rs20 crore.  Speaking to TOI, Kanerkar pointed that the operator has issued notice to discontinue their service on January 19. “It will be really unfair if they (VNIL employees) are not absorbed by the new operators,” said he said and added that all the employees including clerical staffs, drivers and conductors are skilled and experienced. “We are ready to work for anybody. NMC officials are asking us to fill up joining forms for new operators. Each of us should be absorbed at the same position and salary,” said Ranglal Tiwari, a starbus driver. In the meeting, they also threatened that if their demands are not met, they will knock the court’s door and also launch an agitation, including halting the city bus operation.  Meanwhile, district unit of Shiv Sena and Vidarbha Vidyarthi Sanghthana have extended their unconditional support to the VNIL employees. District president of SS Satish Harde said the party will support them for their cause.  A senior official from the NMC’s transport department clarified that the NMC is not directly appointing any of the employees required for the four bus operators. “A firm from New Delhi has been assigned the job. All appointments will be done through them,” the official said. “Preference will be given to them as they are more experienced,” he added.