NEW DELHI: When a   broke the   in the narrow lane of Buddh Nagar in west Delhi’s  , startled people rubbed away their sleep thinking there had been a bomb blast. It was  , all right, but of the urban type. A five-storey building had fallen on the four-floor house in front of it, sending the 15 people asleep there into a rude panic.

 Kishan Kheralia was among the first to rush out from a neighbouring house. “A cloud of dust obstructed my view of the area outside,” said the 50-year-old. Unsure of what had happened, he walked out into the 3.10am darkness and the dust. “In the dim light, I could make out that a newly constructed, unoccupied building had fallen on an adjacent structure. It was from the latter that loud cries were coming,” Kheralia narrated.
 
 Dara Kheralia, a relative, came to his side and the two approached the damaged house, only to find that the doors were locked. The stairs on the top floor had been crushed by the falling building, sending the residents there into panic. “We finally talked to the occupants trapped on the upper floors when they opened the windows and shouted for help,” said Dara.
 
 The lane was soon filled with people, all unsure of what had happened. Police were informed, but they couldn’t afford to wait. “The shrieking women and children roused us to launch our own rescue operation,” said Kishan. The two Kheralias and Amit Chhilwal, another neighbour, got a long rope, knotted it in intervals to create footholds and quickly hitched it to a stable railing on the top floor. “The trick worked and more than six men managed to come down the rope to safety,” said an eyewitness.
 
 By then it became apparent that the stairs had not been completely destroyed. Salma Khatoon, a tenant in the damaged building, related how they left their rooms. “After the cloud of dust settled somewhat and our initial panic subsided, we explored ways of finding our way down to the street,” she recalled. “We saw the stairs were damaged, but we had no option.” It was still a hazardous exercise, and Khatoon hurt her leg negotiating the wrecked steps.
 
 Thankful to have survived but still struggling to recover from her early morning trauma, 75-year-old Pachi Devi said, “I was terrified, it felt like a big blast.” Another resident, Anita Devi, shuddered at the experience and disclosed, “When our rooms shook violently, I was so frightened. I thought I would not be able to save my three children.”
 
 Shelter and food were arranged for the rescued people by the neighbours. Vijender Garg, MLA of Rajinder Nagar, who later inspected the site, said, “I heard that it was the locals who rescued the trapped people. The municipal corporation and the police do not bother about the safety of the residents.” He added that the construction of tall, usually unapproved buildings with weak foundations constantly exposed residents to risks such as this.
 
 
