HYDERABAD: Twenty three-year-old farmer from  , U Mani Ratnam, was arrested by   of Hyderabad Commissionerate on Friday for sending   to women through social media. The tech-savvy farmer was finally caught when he sent abusive messages to a SHE teams sub-inspector. 

 The accused, Mani Ratnam, is from Nandamuru village in Kovvur mandal of West Godavari district. Mani used to randomly key in the cellphone numbers in the 'Truecaller' app installed in his cellphone and if the app shows that the particular number belongs to woman, he used to send obscene photos, videos and vulgar messages to that person through WhatsApp. He also used to send obscene content to women on  . On February 22, SHE teams SI M Shoban Babu received a complaint from a woman through 'Hawk Eye' app about getting abusive messages through   from an unknown number since three months.
 
  The SI then dialled the abusive message sender's number from his official cellphone. "The unknown person did not receive the call but later the SI started receiving abusive messages on WhatsApp from that number," Hyderabad commissionerate Cyber Crime   KCS Raghu Vir said. Soon, the SI also came to know that his Facebook account was also hacked and the hacker sent friends requests from his account to unknown women and started chatting with some women asking for personal details, phone numbers and photos. 
 
 The SI kept his phone number as both user name and password of the Facebook account and the offender managed to login by trying the standard trick, police said.
 
 Based on the complaint lodged by the SI, Cyber Crime police registered a case and arrested Mani Ratnam from his village on Friday. "Mani Ratnam studied up to class X and he works in a farm," Cyber Crime inspector Chand Pasha said.
 
 In Mani Ratnam's phone, police found a WhatsApp group 'Romantic thoughts sharing', comprising cellphone numbers of over 200 women. "Mani Ratnam adds all the cellphone numbers of women he obtains to the WhatsApp group and keeps sharing obscene content," the ACP said. Police produced Mani Ratnam before the court on Friday and he was remanded in judicial custody.
 
 
