NAGPUR: The   has informed the Nagpur bench of   that   (CIIMC) director Sunil Mishra has misled the court on the basis of purported minutes of Academic Council meeting. 

 A bench comprising Justice Bhushan Dharmadhikari and Justice Swapna Joshi scheduled the matter for hearing next week.
 
 On Wednesday, the varsity through its counsel RD Wakode sought serious action of criminal contempt against Mishra and rejection of his application.
 
 On December 28, 2016, the Academic Council had ‘temporarily suspended’ disaffiliation of CIIMC over collection of scholarship amount from backward class students. The institute was on May 19 2016 asked to refund Rs59.26 lakh, collected as scholarship amount from these students, for conducting courses without NU’s affiliation.
 
 Though the NU has acted swiftly in filing the affidavit, it has been going slow in CIIMC case on some or the other pretext after serving show cause notice.
 
 In his civil application filed on January 23, the CIIMC director submitted before the court that he is submitting the minutes of Academic Council meeting of Nagpur University held on December 28, 2016. He also claimed that the NU had closed the case of disaffiliation while it was ‘temporarily suspended’ in view of the public interest ligitation (PIL).
 
 “The minutes of meeting are sufficient to demonstrate that the stand taken by Social Welfare Department are incorrect. The document is self-speaking and makes out a specific case of bias of the present registrar Puran Meshram,” Mishra’s affidavit read.
 
 The NU submitted before the court that the document placed on record by Mishra is completely false and fabricated. “The respondent no No 4 (CIIMC director) had applied to the   officer of university under RTI seeking the ‘steno copy of the notes of the steno working in the office of Registrar recorded in the meeting of Academic Council dated 28.12.2016’. The document sought by the respondent No. 4 is itself clear from the very subject of the application i.e. the steno copy of the notes and not the minutes of the Academic Council meeting,” the NU affidavit states.
 
 The NU has brought to the court’s notice that thought Mishra sought the notes under RTI, the document placed on record are completely different from the one supplied by NU.
 
 The NU has also complained in the affidavit that Mishra is habitual of making wrong statements about pending court proceedings and pressuring the university officer.
 
 The purported minutes of Academic Council submitted by Mishra doesn’t carry the signatures of vice chancellor, registrar and the deputy registrar. 
 
 Meanwhile, the NU has transferred the stenographer RR Udapurkar for providing the steno notes despite having no authority to do so. Udapurkar has been issued show cause notice and an inquiry too has been set up in the matter.
 
