Nagpur: The city police have issued notices to owners of DJ system and Ganesh mandals warning them against playing loud music, particularly on the roads, blocking carriageways.

 Besides, the shops selling noisy crackers will also face action if they are found violating the norms, as per the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986, and Noise Pollution (regulation and control) Rules, 2000.
 
 There are around 1,100 Ganesh mandals in the city.
 
 Apart from planning tight security this year, the police are also working on the anti-pollution theme under city police chief K Venkatesh.
 
 Pushing the proposal to observe a pollution-free   this year, the police had organized a meeting with the representatives of Ganesh mandals, owners of DJ systems and other stakeholders for the first time at Neeri, one of the premier institutions on environment. The meeting was also attended by environment experts.
 
 Venkatesh said the objective of holding the meeting was to ensure that the aspects of pollution were brought to the fore for creating awareness on means to curb violation of norms pertaining to environment protection among the stakeholders.
 
 “The directions of high court pertaining to to noise pollution, permissible decibel and time limits would be followed strictly during the festival. Any violation of these norms would attract legal actions. No DJs would be permitted on the roads,” he said.
 
 Apart from alerting the stakeholders to follow rules through notices under section 149 of Criminal procedure code (CrPc), police have sent the message to the organizers and owners of equipment and gadgets, especially ones emanating sounds, that they may face seizure actions and might be booked.
 
 “We shall make all the necessary arrangements, including equipping the police stations with decibel meters for measuring sounds,” Venkatesh said, adding that meetings of stakeholders will also be arranged at the police station level soon.
 
 DCP (traffic) Ravindrasinh Pardeshi also appealed to the organizers to use mechanically fit vehicles for the processions and follow rules during the festival. 
 
 DCP (crime) Sambhaji Kadam said police would send the noise readings along with the spot panchanama to the competent authority (Maharashtra pollution control board) under section 19 of the Environment protection Act, 1986.
 
 “The pollution control board furnishes complaints at police stations after preliminary enquiry after which the investigation is conducted. The government has also issued direction in this regard after the Bedekar case in Thane,” he said.
 
 “We have a committee under joint CP to take monthly review and actions, where DCP-level and pollution control board officials are members,” he added.
 
 
