HYDERABAD: Household   consumers of   and   have locked horns, albeit unknowingly, in the race for opting out of subsidised kitchen cylinders in wake of PM  's "give-it-up" calls. 

 PM Narendra Modi made this appeal to all well-off households for the benefit of financially backward sections in the country.
 
 Taking a cue from the recent data of oil manufacturing corporations (OMC), updated till June 28, Telangana beats neighbouring Andhra Pradesh, both in absolute and percentage terms.
 
 In 28 districts of Telangana, 3.85 lakh consumers (4.25%) out of a total of nine million have given up buying household cylinders at subsidised rates. On the other hand, PM Modi's appeal has elicited response from over 2.4 lakh people (1.89%) in Andhra Pradesh, which has a total of over 12 million consumers in 13 districts of the state.
 
  Andhra Pradesh has more number of household consumers than Telangana.
 
 Three public sector LPG utility service units of the OMC- Indian Oil Corporation (IOC),   Corporation (BPC) and Hindustan Petroleum Corporation (HPC) are supplying cooking gas to households in both the states.
 
 The districts in Telangana, which have made it to the list of top four, are Hyderabad, Rangareddy, Karimnagar and Warangal (urban). On the other hand, two districts - Bhadradri and Nirmal - have featured at the bottom of the list.
 
 In Hyderabad, nearly 84,934 citizens are no longer availing the subsidy and tops the 'opted out' list among all districts in Telugu states.
 
 In Andhra Pradesh, the four top districts are Krishna, Guntur, Chitoor and  , while Vizianagaram and Srikakulam stood at the bottom of the list.
 
 Krishna district, has 30,270 consumers who utilised the scheme. 
 
 There are 20.6 crore domestic consumers in 36 states and union territories of the country, while only 1.4 crore of them voluntarily opted out of the subsidy. The national percentage of such 'benevolent' consumers is a mere 5.04%.
 
 At the national level Delhi tops the list, in per centage with 16.68% of consumers opted out of the scheme followed by Maharashtra, Karnataka, Rajasthan and Gujarat.
 
 However, considering the total numbers of OMC consumers, the four top states are Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. 
 
