Chennai: Samsung regained the top spot from Apple for smartphone shipments globally in the first quarter (Q1) of 2017, according to a report by Counterpoint Research. The company shipped 80 million devices, 1% higher than last year while US-based Apple shipped 50.8 million iPhones, down 1% annually. Samsung led the market with a 21% market share. Samsung remained the market leader during 2016 except for the last quarter of the year when Apple had a record quarter on the back of the holiday season, shipping 78.3 million iPhones. The first quarter of 2017 has seen Samsung snatch the no. 1 spot from Apple once again. “Apple is yet to reach the peak quarter shipment levels (Q1 2015) which it saw with the iPhone 6 series. Softness in China remains the key factor holding back Apple’s iPhone growth,” analysts at Counterpoint Research said. Huawei shipped record first quarter shipments of 34.6 million units, up 22% annually. Huawei, which had 9.2% market share, launched its latest flagship—the P10—during the first quarter. P10 is expected to boost its share in the premium smartphone segment. The report revealed that OPPO and vivo were the fastest growing brands during Q1 2017, continuing the strong momentum seen in the second half of 2016. Both brands bagged around 6%-7% market share during the quarter. China, India and SEA (South-East Asia) remain key growth markets and these companies captured one of the top-three spots in most of these markets. “Only three brands out of the top 10 clearly outgrew the overall market—OPPO, vivo and Huawei,” said Shobhit Srivastava, research analyst, Counterpoint Research. “These brands have reached dominant positions in their home market putting immense pressure on Samsung and Apple. However, the second half of 2017 will be a strenuous time for these challengers as Samsung and Apple leverage their vertical expertise to churn out two of the most unique and highly desirable flagships,” he said. Smartphone shipments reached 375 million units in Q1 2017 with the market growing 11.2% on an annual basis. The top-10 brands contributed almost 73% of the smartphone volumes in Q1 2017 according to Counterpoint, which researches data on handset shipments. “While the global smartphone segment is about to witness growth, most of this growth is driven by only a few geographies such as India, Middle East & Africa, and small parts of Asia and Europe,” said Tarun Pathak, associate director, Counterpoint Research said. “These high growth markets were earlier driven by growth from local kings, which are now facing tough competition from Chinese brands. We estimate these local kings, feeling the pressure, will adopt a similar strategy and subsequently expand outside their home markets,” he said.