NEW DELHI: Just a day after the political launch of  , talk gathered momentum in   circles that her growing organisational footprint may culminate with her contesting the Lok Sabha polls in 2019 from Rae Bareli in place of her mother, Sonia, who has been forced to scale down her political engagements due to indifferent health.

 On Monday, Congress officially 
  by crediting her with the successful conclusion of alliance talks with SP, which sources described as the precursor to her formal entry in politics. 
 
 Like senior leader Ahmed Patel’s tweet in which he, in a first, publicly spoke of 
  , Congress’s reaction marked a radical departure from the coyness the party has so far displayed while discussing her political plans. The candour about her growing political role coincides with speculation about whether Sonia Gandhi will contest the 2019 LS polls. 
 
 The Congress supremo, who contested her first election from Amethi in 1999, shifted to Rae Bareli in 2004 to pave the way for Rahul’s debut in Parliament. The twin constituencies are known as the Gandhi family borough where 
  since 1999. Party sources feel that Rae Bareli, represented by Indira Gandhi, will be the ideal launch pad for Priyanka in 2019.
 
 There could even be a rejig of the twin seats in case Sonia decides to quit electoral politics. Importantly, with Priyanka suddenly hogging the limelight, Congress stressed that her primacy in “UP deal ” does not alter the party’s succession plan of Rahul taking over from Sonia.
 
 “As far as UP elections are concerned, Congress vice-president   requested Ghulam Nabi Azad and Priyanka Gandhi for sewing up the alliance with a progressive like-minded party, and that was a role for which Rahul requested both Azad and Priyanka,” AICC spokesman Ajoy Kumar told media. 
 
 Senior leaders said succession in Congress could happen at multiple levels, with Rahul’s taking charge of the party coinciding with Priyanka easing into a formal role. It may happen soon after the assembly election results in five states are announced — with LS polls a good two years away. Sources said the decision to accord an official status to Priyanka’s engagement with the party was thought through. The reason behind Priyanka’s growing footprint, it is said, is Sonia’s decision to have a withdrawn role. “It is a fact that Rahul’s dependence on his sister has increased a lot. She is looking after many functions discharged by Sonia as also the back-end operations of Rahul’s office,” an insider said.
 
 
