MUMBAI: A special   court has found that a   staffer’s omission of the words “for a limited specific period” had changed the meaning and impact of a 2011 order allowing   2008 accused Col Prasad Purohit’s jail hospital stay for treatment. The altered order, which allegedly facilitated Purohit’s Taloja jail hospital stay, instead of the prison cell for six years, may now spell trouble for the  .

 In an order on Wednesday, the court, pointing out to discrepancies in the staffer’s relaying of the order to the jail authorities in 2011, observed that instead of registering a complaint, as prayed by Purohit’s co accused who brought the matter to light, it would be appropriate to take disciplinary action against the staffer. “After making an inquiry on the administrative side if it is found that the employee concerned has committed misconduct by conveying such (alerted with omissions) order to the jail authority, proper penalty can be imposed upon the said employee or action can be taken against the said employee,” the court said.
 
 Accordingly, the court dismissed the co-accused, retired Major Ramesh Upadhyay’s plea seeking filing of a complaint against the errant staffer. The court reasoned that considering the court employee is a government servant, action could be taken on the administrative side.
 
 Referring to the difference between the actual order pronounced by the court and a copy furnished to jail authorities in 2011, the court said, “No doubt it is expected that the ‘sheristedar’ (chief officer of court) should convey the order of the court to the authority concerned without making any material alteration in it.”
 
 Purohit’s continued six-year stay came under the scanner after Upadhyay filed a plea last month alleging that a forged court order had allowed the stay since 2011. He alleged that the difference between the order copies cannot take place without the active connivance and complicity of the court staff,   and his escort party from April 30, 2011.
 
 Following the application, the court asked the jail authorities for the true copy of the order dated April 30, 2011. Referring to the order furnished by the jail authority, the court said it was clear from the copy that while conveying the order to the jail authority the words “for a limited specific period” were omitted as well as the second paragraph of the order was also not conveyed to the jail authority.
 
 The jail authorities, along with the 2011 order, had also submitted a plea seeking Purohit’s removal from hospital to a high security cell. The court is yet to pronounce an order on this plea.
 
 
