 The month of March has brought with it placement jitters for final-year students in  .   from engineering   and B-schools are busy preparing, not for their year-end exams but the job interviews which will take place during campus placement drives in their respective colleges. From fine-tuning their CVs to polishing up their soft-skills, placement season has definitely set hearts racing in the city
 
 Apart from brushing up their job-specific knowledge and preparing their CVs, campus placement cells in colleges are also acquainting their students with what the employers are looking for in their prospective candidates, by organising CEO and HR meets in the campus. “Learning about   from hearsay and actually meeting the recruiters is very different. I think the latter enables us to face real interviews more confidently,” says  , a final year student of KK Wagh College. Jay recently secured a job with a well-known company during a campus placement drive in his college. He adds that the CEO and HR meets that were organised in his college were very informative and helped him secure his dream job.
 
 
 
  Colleges have charted out a complete training schedule to prepare their students for campus interviews. “Getting students ready for placements is not a three-month task. It should start right from their first year. We have drafted a complete training module where each stage coincides with the academic elevation of students,” informs Dr  , the placement cell officer at KK Wagh Engineering College. 
 
 
 
 
  It has been often observed that students who excel in studies lack the necessary soft skills to secure the job. Therefore, campus placement cells are making sure that their students get the required soft-skill training. “We organise lectures, call experts to guide the students and also conduct sessions to equip our students with necessary soft-skills,” shares Dr  , placement co-ordinator of VN Naik College.
 
  Colleges have also focussed on company-specific training for ensuring better placements. “Some of the placement interviews were held in August 2016 in our college and a few students were selected. Now these selected students were imparted company-specific training which acquainted them with the rules and the working culture of that company,” adds Shahabadkar of KK Wagh College. 
 
 
