UDHAGAMANDALAM: Nilgiri Documentation Centre ( ) has appealed the state government to reconsider its decision to hold the   at Race Course here on September 26. 

 The   has cited the possibility of heavy rains and inconvenience to the public. Earlier, NDC had said it, along with other organisations, would call for a boycott of the centenary function if the issues of the Nilgiri district were not addressed. NDC had also pointed out that Race Course is a marsh land. 
 
 A press release from NDC on Tuesday said an alternative venue for the celebrations would be the ‘Suthanthira Thidal’, which can hold a crowd of several thousands, if the roads are repaired and traffic diverted for a day. Additional crowd can be accommodated in the nearby Gandhi Maidan with the display of LED screens.
 
 Director of NDC Dharmalingam Venugopal said, “The amount spent on getting the Suthanthira Thidal, roads, toilets, drainage and vehicle stands ready will be of permanent benefit to the town.”
 
 “Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami has been announcing major development schemes to the respective districts while addressing the centenary celebrations. The Nilgiri district administration should get the list of urgent development works required in the district for the consideration and announcement by the chief minister,” said Venugopal.
 
 According to the release, the Nilgiris in general and Ooty in particular have suffered the most due to indiscriminate, irresponsible and unregulated tourism. Ooty town has one of highest density of tourists in the country round the year leading to severe pollution of its fabled air, overburdening of the drainage, generating mountains of garbage and exhausting the meager water supply. This has taken a heavy toll on the local people, particularly the elderly in terms of health, cost of living, peace and privacy.
 
 The district administration should convince the chief minister about the seriousness of the tourism problem in the district and persuade him to announce a comprehensive tourism development plan for Nilgiris and imposition of tourism and pollution tax to regulate and promote ‘responsible tourism’, added the release.
 
