SURAT: Authorities of the   at the   (NCH) campus have removed the commercial advertisements from its compound’s outer walls falling on the main road. 

 The action was taken following a report published in TOI on December 21, 2016 after an RTI activist had locked horns with the authorities and the state’s health department for the violation and misuse of the government property by private advertiser. 
 
 Rajesh Modi, an RTI activist, had come across the advertisement of various well-known showrooms in the city painted on the outer side of the compound wall. Being located in the prime area at Majura Gate, the compound wall of the NCH was occupied by the retailers thereby violating the norms and misusing the property owned by the government. 
 
 Talking to TOI, dean of government medical college, Dr   said, “The outer wall was whitewashed after the report in TOI. Notices were sent to the advertisers for misusing the government property. Now, I am told that a small patch of the wall is occupied by political parties.”
 
 Brahmbhatt added, “I will be meeting municipal commissioner in the next few days to convince him on utilizing the outer wall for spreading health related awareness through paintings and messages.”
 
 Modi told TOI, “I met the medical superintendent of NCH to gather information whether any tender was issued for advertising on the compound wall. However, the superintendent was unaware of any such development and denied giving any permission.” 
 
 However, Modi wrote to the ministry of health, government of Gujarat seeking their response on the illegal advertisement on the government property and the action against the advertisers for violating the norms of using the government property. 
 
 “The location of civil hospital is on prime business road and if government really wants to generate revenue then the wall should be rented out for advertisement by proper way of tendering or health related awareness could be created by writing messages,” Modi said. If the advertisers are using the wall without permission of the custodian of the premises then it becomes his duty to file a proper complaint legally so that strict actions can be taken against offenders, he added. 
 
 Sources said that the outer side of the compound wall was whitewashed few days ago. However, political parties have occupied a small patch of the wall with their political advertisements.
 
