PANAJI: The pace at which   is taking off in the state, its production is likely to go up to 1.5 lakh stalks per month by next year, agriculture officials said.

 The state agriculture department has been supporting orchid cultivation at polyhouses (this form of cultivation is beneficial for off-season flowers, vegetables) and shade net houses in the state. This has resulted in an overwhelming crop of 70,000 stalks currently being produced each month in Goa.
 
 “This figure is likely to increase. If we keep going the way we are, we can easily harvest 1.5 lakh stalks of orchids per month,” agriculture officer   said.
 
 “Climatic conditions have a key role to play in making this happen. Goa has high humidity and the kind of temperature that is required to grow tropical orchids makes the polyhouses in the state an ideal place for farmers to cultivate the flower,” he added.
 
 Often used in bouquets and ornamental décor, orchids are slowly emerging in the state as a popular option for flowers, for their affordable pricing and easy availability.
 
  They sell at Rs 10-12 per stalk, which was previously selling in Goa at Rs 25 per stalk.
 
 With about 10-12,000 stalks being sold locally in Goa, majority of the stock is supplied to Pune, Mumbai and Bengaluru by farmers in Goa.
 
 Valpoi based orchid farmer, Altaf Shaikh, who has been successfully cultivating the flower and supplying locally as well as in neighbouring states for the past five years, said, “Goa has a lot of potential to do better in this sector. There is a significant floriculture revolution in the state especially since subsidies from the department of agriculture have made it easier.”
 
 The department provides 100% subsidy for polyhouse construction and 50% subsidy for cultivation of flowers in the state.
 
 Sanguem zonal agricultural Officer M Morajkar said, “Farmers get Rs 4 per stalk locally and much higher, when it is sent to neighbouring states. Given the favourable production of orchids in Goa, we need to market the flower well and expand sales.”
 
