Greater Noida: Two undertrial prisoners, who are among the accused in the Akhlaq murder case, alleged that they were beaten up by jail officials in Luksar jail on Wednesday afternoon.

 
 Hariom (28) had injuries to his left hand while Shivam (20) had minor injuries on his head. Hariom was shifted to the district hospital in Noida’s Sector 30 for treatment before being discharged from the hospital and taken back to Luksar jail later.
 
 
 Shivam was admitted to the hospital on the jail premises and discharged after treatment.
 
 Hariom Pradhan, headman of   village, said Hariom’s family members had gone to meet him in the jail in the afternoon. “First he was not allowed to meet the family members. When he objected to it, he was thrashed,” Pradhan said.
 
 Amit Sisodia, another Bisada resident, said Hariom’s younger brother Shriom, another undertrial prisoner, heard the alleged cries for help and rushed to the spot. “Shriom then raised an alarm and informed other undertrial prisoners, who in turn staged a protest,” he said.
 
 Jail superintendent M L Yadav denied the allegations of the prisoners. He said Hariom’s relatives had come over to meet him.
 
 “The meeting got delayed because jail officials were busy with some work. That annoyed him and he started banging his body against the wall, doors and windows. He hit his hand against a glass window and received minor injuries to his left hand,” Yadav said.
 
 The officials said that another inmate, Shivam, also joined the protest and banged his head against the wall to inflict injuries on himself. 
 
 The jail officials immediately swung into action and controlled both the inmates. The two inmates have not suffered any major injuries.
 
 A total of 18 persons were charged with murder and assault on Mohammed Akhlaq and his son Danish on the night of September 28, 2015. Ravi, an undertrial prisoner died in judicial custody following a prolonged illness. Among other accused, six including three juveniles, are currently out on bail. 
 
 The matter is being he-ard in a fast-track court in Surajpur.
 
 
