MUMBAI: An   turned tragic for a 13-year-old Vikhroli boy, who drowned in a   at   of   on Wednesday. 

 Manan Gogri, a resident of Neelkamal Co-operative Housing Society, Tagore Nagar, Vikhroli (East), along with 119 students, went to Sajan Nature Club, Vikramgad, for a summer camp on May 1. It was organised by a group called Tarun Mitra Mandal. The students were to return on Friday.
 
 At around 11am on Wednesday, the organisers took 60 students, in the age group of 10-15, including Manan, to Sajan dam for boating. Students had to walk in the water for a distance before getting into the boat. Sixty students stayed back in the resort. 
 
 Manan did not know swimming and was not wearing a life jacket, said inspector Vijay Shinde. Vikramgad police said the organisers did not ensure that all students wore life jackets. Manan is believed to have entered the water which was around 35 feet deep, when he slipped and drowned. Some students raised an alarm but it was too late. Villagers jumped into the water to look for Manan but in vain. Police too carried out search operations but his body was found at around 2.30am on Thursday. Manan reportedly ventured into the water twice earlier and police said on those occasions he wore a life jacket. But on Wednesday, when he stepped into the water, he was not wearing one. 
 
 In a police complaint, Manan's father Kekin said he paid Rs 7,000 to enroll his son, a class VIII student, for the four-day camp. He said they had no knowledge the organisers would leave his son unattended when he entered the water. Manan was attending the camp for the third year in a row. 
 
 Police arrested the organisers and trainers Jatin Gangar, Dolly Gangar and Zuben Chawda, as well as resort managers Vishal Sakpal and Vinayak Deshmukh. They were charged under IPC section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) and remanded to police custody till Monday.
 
 A spokesperson for Nature Trails said, "Our condolences to the bereaved family at this tragic loss. We are working with the concerned authorities to establish the causes that led to this terrible tragedy."
 
 
