KOLKATA: The men in blue are tearing Bangladesh apart in Hyderabad but closer home, honour will be at stake at the   on Saturday when   students will take on their seniors from the institution at a  . So what the players in the alumni team have played competitive cricket two decades back, they are determined make life difficult for the current players. In fact, they have emerged victorious in last three editions of the annual event.

 The match, the final event of Presidency’s first phase of bicentennial celebrations, will bring together players from diverse fields. So there is a possibility that Birbhum deputy magistrate Saikat Bhadra, academic Moidul Islam and ad guru Sujoy Roy turn up on the same side. 
 
 There will be another “fun” match — lasting an over or two — before the big clash. Students from 80s and 90s will participate in the match. “It is not often you see students from those golden days reliving their old days on 22 yards, that too at the Eden Gardens,” said Dipankar Ghosh, former statistics department student and Presidency cricket team vice-captain and cricket secretary of 1970-71. 
 
 Former cricketers who are likely to grace the occasion are Gopal Bose, Raju Mukherjee and Chuni Goswami. “While this match is a traditional affair each year at the college grounds, hosting it at the majestic Eden Gardens gives it a new perspective. We want the present students to turn up in huge numbers and so we are keeping seven buses ready to ferry them to the grounds,” said Sandeep Kar, a senior member of the Presidency Alumni Association.
 
 Many veterans though say they would have loved to play the match at the Presidency grounds. “It gives that intimacy that Eden Gardens might not provide,” said journalist Shiladitya Saha, who has been representing the alumni team for the last four years.
 
 Other noted alumni like Jawhar Sircar and Amitabha Sinha are not ready to go into the organizational details. “We do not know if we will be able to attend. But then,   gives you the perfect space to indulge in banter with friends and cheer your friends,” said one of them.
 
 The organizers, however, fear “time constraint” might stop them from all the events that was initially planned. “We have to squeeze events to complete the match by 2pm,” said alumni association secretary Bivas Chaudhuri.
 
