Panaji: Chief minister Manohar Parrikar on Saturday proposed a “Europe tour” for the officials of the Kadamba Transport Corporation( ) board to “learn from the transport systems and replicate successful initiatives in Goa” so as to increase revenue and provide better services to the public. 

 It will not be a “junket”, he clarified, but a “good educative programme”. “This tour is not for enjoyment, but rather to learn and implement the good ideas that are being practiced in other parts of the world. This sort of expenditure for a tour with an educative programme in mind would be an investment,” he said. 
 
 Transport minister Ramkrishna ‘Sudin’ Dhavalikar said the corporation’s chairman and managing director would lead the group that will travel to England, France and Sweden to get an insight into the cashless transaction mode followed there and do away with the paper ticketing system. It will be relatively easy to implement the card system in a small state like Goa, Parrikar said. 
 
 Speaking at KTC’s 37th anniversary celebrations on Saturday, Parrikar also promised the implementation of the 7th pay commission for KTC employees by October. 
 
 While Dhavalikar said he was satisfied with the KTC report, he urged the staff to improve on the diesel per km rate by observing good driving practices and bringing down the number of accidents. 
 
 “Under a central scheme, all major bus stands in the state will be converted into bus ports on the lines of an airport, he added. 
 
 Around 68 drivers, conductors and other staff of KTC with good track records, as well as some of their children who performed exceptionally well in the SSC and HSSC examination, were felicitated. A KTC driver, Ratnadeep, was awarded for returning a bag containing gold worth Rs 1 lakh that was left behind by a passenger travelling on the Panaji-Margao shuttle route, earlier this year. 
 
 Parrikar urged KTC to fall in line with the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan campaign by compulsorily making provisions in all its buses for litter.
 
 
