PATNA: Five armed   and ornaments worth several crores from the   flat of one   (63) in   under Kotwali police station area in the city on Sunday. Baban is a retired bank employee. 

 Baban said the looted item included a rare   which was estimated in 1998 worth Rs 6 crore. The jewel belongs to one Qul Kant, who had kept it at his friend Baban’s house. 
 
 Describing the incident, Baban told TOI, “One Mohammad Mustaque Khan of Samanpura area, who is known to me, knocked the door of my ground floor flat around 1.30pm and asked for water. My wife Vibha Chaubey (60) had gone out to purchase some household items. I invited him inside.
 
 As soon as I turned back to bring water, he took me at gunpoint and four other persons entered my flat. They asked me to hand over all the valuable things belonging to my wife. I was forced to open the almirah and handed them over the jewellery box which contained a gold necklace, some bangles and rings besides Rs70,000. The Ruby, which belonged to my friend, was also kept in the same box.” He said they fled in a van which was parked a few metres away from the apartment.
 
 Kant, a retired officer of the state excise department, said the Ruby had been kept at Baban’s house for safety reasons for the past several years. 
 
 “According to a certificate issued by Gem Testing Laboratory, Kolkata, the Ruby was from the mines of Kandahar. I can’t tell the present price of the gem but in 1998, the laboratory officials had estimated its price around Rs 6 crore. It was bright red in colour and 16.14 carat in weight,” Kant told TOI, adding that it was an ancestral property given to him by his father.
 
 “Investigations revealed that Baban had told his friend Mushtaque that Kant wanted to sell the Ruby. Mushtaque told him that he had certain customers and they visited Baban’s place and decamped with the jewellery and cash,” said Patna SSP Manu Maharaaj. 
 
 Baban and Kant also admitted that they were in talks with Mushtaque to sell the Ruby.
 
 Kotwali police station SHO Rama Shankar said Mushtaque took away the jewellery by making Baban a fool. “Raids are on to nab him,” he said.
 
 
