HYDERABAD: As many as 20 historic mausoleums ( ) under the watch of the Nizam's Auqaf Committee have been encroached, with the state   failing to act against land grabbers.These mausoleums are also in a poor condition, with neither the waqf board nor the Auqaf Committee showing interest in their conservation.

 A few of the mausoleums are a little over 200 years. Most of them belong to nobles. The Nizam's Auqaf Committee, which is an autonomous body answerable to the state Waqf Board, manages as many as 62 waqf institutions with landed properties. Nineteen of them are mausoleums while the rest of mosques and Ashoorkhanas.
 
 Together, these waqf institutions have 118 acres. While a few institutions are caught in a legal battle, a couple of the properties do not have records. But a majority of the Nizam's waqf properties have lost land to encroachments.
 
 Nawab   Khan, president of Nizam's Family Welfare Association, blames the waqf board and the Auqaf Committee for the encroachments. Najaf Ali, who is also the grandson of the seventh Nizam Mir Osman Ali Khan, has asked the state Waqf Board to intervene and remove all encroachments.
 
 “My grandfather had donated properties to these waqf institutions for their upkeep and maintenance. The Mansha-e-Waqf (purpose of donation) should be protected. Unless the encroachments are removed, these institutions will disappear sooner or later,“ Najaf Ali said.
 
 He demanded that a competent committee be appointed to manage the Nizam's waqf properties.
 
 Some of the mausoleums are of historical and architectural value as well as of religious importance. One of the mausoleums is that of Arastu Jah, the prime minister of the second Nizam Ali Khan.
 
 Arastu Jah's real name was  , but he was bestowed with the title `Arastu Jah' meaning Aristotle of the time'. He play` ed a key role in the truce between the Nizam and the Marathas and was instrumental in the restoration of the territories that the Nizam had lost to the Marathas in the battle of Kharda.
 
 The mausoleum was originally spread over a vast area, but it has come down to a mere 300 sq yards now. Even this is now under encroachment.
 
 The mausoleum of Akbar Jah too has lost much of its landed property. A large granite table that had become a stumbling block for encroachers was recently shifted to Makkah Masjid in the name of conservation.
 
 There are a number of mausoleums dedicated to women members of the noble families too. One of them belongs to courtesan poetess Mahlaqa Chanda Bai, a contemporary of the Nizam II. They are also under encroachment.
 
