NEW DELHI: The   ( ) said on Saturday that the steady increase in cases of   through   is “scary” and the situation has prompted security agencies to undertake new measures to effectively check the menace.

 An official statement said while a total of 33 victims, both Indian and Nepalese, were apprehended by the SSB from these areas in 2014, the figures went up to 336 in 2015, 501 in 2016 and till March this year, 180 boys and girls have been rescued by it.
 
 Similarly, the number of traffickers apprehended along the 1,751-km long open and porous border on the country's eastern flank have risen from eight in 2014 to 102 in 2015, 148 nabbed last year and 51 traffickers caught till March this year.
 
 Prompted by the steady increase in numbers, the SSB has called for a day-long workshop between multiple stakeholders mandated to curb this crime which includes state police forces of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and others, railway police, NGOs and top police officials of cities like Mumbai, Bengaulru and from Punjab which are the destinations for these trafficked children.
 
 “We want to involve each and every stakeholder who is instrumental in curbing the menace of human trafficking. It is not enough to just intercept such instances and let the police be handed over the investigation. 
 
 It is essential to find out the source and supply destination of trafficking and hit at the illegal act in a comprehensive manner," SSB director general   said.
 
 She added the conference, to be held on Monday, will chalk out plans to better coordinate between multiple agencies involved so that the suppliers and end users of this criminal act are identified and brought to book.
 
 An SSB statement said, “The complexity of the phenomenon (human trafficking), its multidimensional nature, its rapid spread worldwide and confusion surrounding the concept has made urgent and essential the need to understand the various aspects of the phenomenon.”
 
 A senior SSB officer said the border guarding force, by virtue of its large presence along Indo-Nepal border areas, can help in assisting the local police forces and non-governmental organisations in getting intelligence inputs and manpower up to a certain level that will help in joining together the dots of this crime.
 
 The data states that the instances of human trafficking along the Indo-Nepal border have also grown from eight in 2014 to 73 in 2015, 76 in 2016 and 34 till March this year.
 
