CHENNAI: The three-hour impromptu strike and road by medicos working at   on Thursday echoed in the  , which on Friday asked the government to ensure withdrawal of strikes by medicos in other parts of the state.

 “If any agitation is continuing as on date, the government has to take necessary steps to see that the agitation is withdrawn, and patients are treated properly, said Justice N Kirubakaran, concurring with the submissions of advocate S   who sought guarantee for fair treatment for patients.
 
 Reiterating the need to ensure safety of doctors as well as their duty towards the patients in need, said, “The attack by the relatives of patients are not new, and it is a continuing one. This kind of attack on doctors or medical students should be stopped, whatever be the cause for the incident. However, it is the bounden duty of doctors, medical students and house surgeons to give appropriate, proper, necessary and timely treatment to the ailing patients who are brought to hospitals for urgent treatment. It is the duty of the government to see that such incidents are not repeated in future.“
 
 On Thursday evening, medicos went on flash strike after a house surgeon was allegedly grabbed by his collar by a patient's attendant. While one patient was said to have died for want of medical attention, on Friday morning advocate Elangovan mentio ned the matter before Justice Kirubakaran and said at least three people had lost their lives. Shocked by the claim, the judge agreed to offer urgent hearing of the matter.
 
 In the afternoon, however, special government pleader R Rajagopalan denied deaths and said only medical students and house surgeons had launched the agitation, and that doctors never joined them. Justice Kirubakaran, expressing anguish at the turn of events, expanded the scope of the petition and sought to know from authorities details such as the number of doctors employed in the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital, and the strength of doctors, house surgeons and medical students in each shift.
 
 The judge also asked whether all medicines and other required equipment were available in government hospitals. Officials shall come out with answers to these court queries at next hearing on March 20.
 
