PUNE: The Interdisciplinary School of Health Science at   (SPPU) has earned the recognition of a centre of excellence from the ministry of Ayush to carry out research in traditional medicine. 

 For the next three years, the institute will received a grant of Rs 3.5 crore from the Centre and Rs 95 lakh from the health ministry. As many as 15 national-level fellowships will be provided for young teachers and researchers. If their projects are of exceptional quality, they will also get Rs 30 lakh as seed capital.
 
 “The biggest criticism of traditional medicine is that there is no scientific evidence. This project will help us conduct research to gather such evidence. There is also a scarcity of trained scientific researchers in the field. We will conduct a capacity building   and researchers to make them well versed with the areas of their expertise and the scientific methodology required to establish something,” said  , director of the Center for Complementary and Integrative Health.
 
 “We are working on how to use traditional methods such as Ayurveda along with conventional vaccine to make it more efficient. Research can be done on using age-old methods in traditional medicine, along with modern medicine, to treat diseases such as cancer,” he added.
 
  said the university will upgrade the infrastructure and increase the faculty in the department. “Fifteen researchers a year mean 45 researchers in three years. They will get the benefit of the fellowship, which will also have a three-month residential program. The researchers will undertake five courses and will also get a project. If it is innovative, the researcher will get a seed capital of Rs 30 lakh from the ministry of health,” he said.
 
 National Centre of Cell Science, Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Manipal University, National Cancer Institute, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center and Mayo Clinic in the US are acting as consultants for the department.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interdisciplinary School of Health Science at SPPU will start a new course, Integrative Dietetics, from this academic year. Dietetics is the branch of knowledge concerned with the diet and its effects on health, especially with the practical application of a scientific understanding of nutrition.
 
 “The short-term certificate course will have an intake capacity of 25 students. It is probably the first such course in the country. Once the courses are up and running, they will also be available online as many outsiders are interested in alternative or traditional medicines when it comes to dietetics,’ said Bhushan Patwardhan, director of Center for Complementary and Integrative Health.
 
