Mumbai: With the government pushing the   segment through easier tax rules and other sops, global players have started investing in the sector. On Monday, city-based   Management said   Holding, an arm of Qatar’s sovereign fund, invested $250 million (nearly Rs 1,700 crore) in its fund for low- and mid-income housing. This fund will invest in affordable housing projects. This is the first major foreign investment in the country’s affordable housing segment.

 This FDI-compliant investment by Qatar Holding is the first substantial foreign investment into India’s affordable housing segment, spanning low and mid-income houses, immediately after the Budget, said Bikram Sen, Arthveda in a statement. The fund management house belongs to the Dewan Housing Finance group.
 
 This affordable housing fund projects an internal rate of return (IRR) of 18-21%. In 2015, ArthVeda’s Dream Fund gave returns to investors with an IRR of 17%, while its domestic Star Fund I, which is on course to exit all its investments in the next couple of months, is set to give a comparable return, the release said. Currently it is deploying funds through its low-income housing fund, Asha.
 
 The release said that since the low- and middle-income residential   in India offers a significant opportunity to grow investments, ArthVeda would continue to build on this success by conceiving more such vehicles. Global ratings major Moody’s Investor Service on Monday said the Centre’s Budget proposals will have a positive impact on the affordable housing segment.
 
 “The biggest and the most impactful policy directive for the real estate sector is the granting of infrastructure status to affordable housing. Such action will allow developers to borrow at lower interest rates and provide tax exemptions to the construction industry that has witnessed a reduction in launches and sales these last few years,” a Moody’s report said. It said the Budget proposals were credit positive for Indiabulls Real Estate and unlisted Lodha Developers, the two companies which has been rated by the global major.
 
 
