Amid fancy bungalows, in an upmarket locality in  , sits ensconced a lone green patch of land which also fetched this locality its name – Kadri Kambala. As the name suggests, it is an area that’s played host to innumerable Kambalas from the days of yore. Today though, this space is overrun by weeds and wild grass. After the ban on   by the Supreme Court, it’s curtains down on this age-old tradition.
“It is indeed unfortunate that the folks who have taken up cudgels against Kambala have a limited and biased view about the issue. They have absolutely no knowledge about the essential foundation of Kambala in Tulunadu’s historical and cultural setting. And unlike popular perception, Kambala is not a sport. In local parlance, Kambala roughly means tilling the fields for agriculture with the aid of able buffalos,” says Gunapal Kadamba, a cultural custodian and veteran Kambala commentator for over 45 years. “Also, in sharp contrast to the points raised by People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA), in the 1,000-year history of Kambala, let alone animal cruelty, there hasn’t even been a single death either of man or beast, since both run alongside each other.” One of the observations made by   is that the anatomy of a buffalo deems it unfit for Kambala. “But scientific research conducted by experts recently has disproved this theory and concluded that not only are the buffalos of the coastal belt fit enough to run in the fields, but command admirable physical endurance. This is a fact we have presented to the court, too,” he explains.
 Since animal cruelty is a term that is often raised by the activists, Kambala buffalo breeders in the region have taken strong offence to it. “Have these custodians of animal welfare bothered to even get a glimpse of our buffalo sheds to observe their upkeep? Kambala is about reverence and that holds good even for the animals associated with it. Not only are they housed in hygienic sheds, but are also treated to weekly massages and sunbathing to get them accustomed to the scorching heat of the coast. In addition to this, many of us breeders have even built exclusive tanks and swimming pools for them to soak in,” says Nandalike Srikant Bhat, who breeds champion Kambala buffalos in Manipal. He adds that they are regularly fed a healthy mix of horse gram, coconut and jaggery and the maintenance of each buffalo works out to Rs 600 per day. “In summer, to keep their bodies cool, we even feed them pumpkins. In fact, the cost of maintaining these buffalos amount to more than the cost of raising two kids and it’s no exaggeration. This is the kind of affection and care that is lavished on these animals,” says Nandalike.
 Raju Shetty, another breeder from Kiradi, says, “Our buffalos have been participating in Kambalas for the past 15 years and are treated no less than members of my family. A budget of Rs 15-20 lakh is allocated annually for their care. Their health is regularly monitored by me and applying herbal oils are part of their daily routine.”
 “Needless to say, Kambala is a symbol of not just Tulunadu’s pride, but  ’s, too. This is a land that has been the keeper traditions in an era where it is fading away elsewhere. Families across generations have continued following this cultural and historical practice, hence these buffalos have become an intrinsic part of the Tuluva household. Banning Kambala is akin to snatching our identity from us,” says Praveen Alva, a Kambala organizer in the region.
 
  
 
 
  Housed in hygienic sheds
 
  Weekly massage
 
  Sunbathing to help them get used to the heat
 
  Exclusive tanks and pools to soak in
 
  Food includes healthy mix of horse gram, coconut and jaggery
 
  Cost of Maintenance is at least Rs 600 per day
 
  Rs 15-20 lakh budget allocated for their care annually
 
  Treated no less than a family member
 
  
 
 
  In the days of yore, when agriculture was still the primary occupation of the region, irrespective of whether a family owned two or 25 acres, it began the year’s farming activity by paying obeisance to the buffalos and farming equipment. Bhootharadhane and Daivaradhane were also part of this elaborate process. And at the end of the tilling process, the buffalos were gathered and treated to a rich supply of coconut and bananas, followed by salutations by the family to the beasts for their hard work. This intimate and endearing process continues till date. There’s also a sacredness that is associated with this practice and much care is taken to maintain the sanctity of these slush fields. In the past forty years, Kambala has also taken on another avatar – that of a traditional sport. But it’s still considered as the lifeline of a farmer and the subtleties can be truly felt when you watch these paddy fields surrounded by oil lamps on the day a Kambala is held. It is truly a divine sight to behold. No wonder that even ancient relics found in the temple of Sringeri wax eloquent on the wonders of the Kambala.
 
  
 
 
  Mulki Arasu kambala
 
  Katpady beedu
 
  Aikala bava
 
  Baradi beedu
 
  Karkala Miyar
 
   
 
  Puttur
 
  Shirva Nadibettu
 
  
 
 
  January 28 will see a major protest in Moodabidri, where 50,000 to 75,000 Kambala fans are expected to take part in a rally. Buffalos will also be brought out in a procession on that day.
 
  
 
 
