HYDERABAD: Breaking its silence, the education department on Monday said it will be shortly setting up committees at the institutional level to deal with and create awareness on substance abuse. 

 The move came after the excise department wrote to department heads of school, intermediate, collegiate, and technical education wings, asking them to direct colleges and other educational institutions to sensitise their staff about this issue.
 
 "In the next 15 days or so, we are planning to organise an awareness programme for representatives of colleges and will educate them on signs to look for and identify, in the initial stages itself, students doing drugs. To make this possible, we will be roping in experts in the field as well as non-profit organisations. Also, we will direct institutions to form committees at the college level to tackle this menace," said A Vani Prasad, commissioner of collegiate education, admitting that they have already received a letter from the excise department.
 
 Though it is not yet clear what steps the government is taking at the school level to create awareness, schools, on their part, have already got down to doing their bit to tackle this menace.
 
 "With the help of a de-addiction centre, we have been organising programmes for parents, teachers, and students. While the parents were educated on how to identify if a child is getting addicted to any bad habits, students, on the other hand, got to interact with a peer who is into a rehabilitation program for drug abuse. The counselors made use of pictures and other materials to organise the interactive session to have a maximum impact on students," said Latha Shankar, principal, Hyderabad Public School, Begumpet, adding that the school has made sure that vendors are moved away from the school's vicinity.
 
 She further said that the school is collecting credentials of auto and van drivers and is planning to conduct an awareness program for them as well.
 
 M Varalakshmi, principal, Jubilee Hills Public School, too said the school has been continuously conducting awareness session for students. "Apart from this, we have placed a drop box on the premises so that students can drop any information they have about the issue without having to revealing their identity," Varalakshmi added.
 
