NEW DELHI: The   has ruled that a convict's nature and not the nature of his crime was the determining factor for grant of  , which formed part of the reformative scheme to help convicts maintain links with family and society to re-enter a normal life after the jail term. 

 Though it denied parole to 1993 serial train bomb blasts case convict Asfaq, the SC examined the Central Parole Rules, 1955, and said the 62-year-old provisions were archaic and sketchy and needed thorough recasting. It suggested utilising modern research in criminology, which provided methods to study the nature of convicts and their possibility of committing crime during short-term release under parole or furlough. 
 
 Parole can be granted many times to a convict undergoing short-term imprisonment and each parole period may extend up to one month. On the other hand, furloughs are for a maximum period of 14 days granted a limited number of times to a convict facing long-jail term.
 
 Discussing the necessity of granting convicts parole or furlough as the case may be, a bench of Justices A K Sikri and   said on Monday, "Convicts too must breathe fresh air for at least some time provided they maintain good conduct consistently during incarceration and show a tendency to reform themselves and become good citizens."
 
 Justice Sikri, writing the judgment for the bench, said, "The most important ground is that a prisoner should be allowed to maintain family and social ties. For this purpose, he has to come out for some time so that he is able to maintain his family and social impact. This reason finds justification in one of the objectives behind sentence and punishment, namely reformation of the convict.
 
 "When we recognise reformation as one of the objectives, it provides justification for letting of even life convicts for short periods on parole, in order to afford opportunities to such convicts not only to solve their personal and family problems but also to maintain their link with society. Another objective which this theory underlines is that even such convicts have a right to breathe fresh air, albeit for periods."
 
 The court said many convicts relapsed into crime because they left prison without a strong support network in the family and society and no prospects of employment. "When offenders revert to criminal activity upon release, they frequently do so because they lack hope of merging into society as accepted citizens," it said.
 
 At the same time, the court said public interest should be an important consideration for authorities in deciding whether a convict deserved parole or furlough. "Public interest also demands that those who are habitual offenders and may have tendency to commit crime again after release on parole or having the tendency to become threat to law and order of society should not be released on parole," it said.
 
 "Not all people in prison are appropriate for grant of furlough or parole. Obviously, society must isolate those who show patterns of preying upon victims. 
 
 "Yet, administrators ought to encourage those offenders who demonstrate a commitment to reconcile with society and whose behaviour shows that they aspire to live as law-abiding citizens. Thus, parole programme should be used as a tool to shape such adjustments," the court added. 
 
 
