HYDERABAD: It was another   of disappointment for the biotechnology sector, which did not even warrant a mention in Union finance minister  's two-hour-long Budget speech.The industry now hopes that a slew of announcements made for healthcare and agriculture sector will indirectly help the sector in the long run.

 “There was nothing for the industry . While the government has been speaking about startups, there was no incentive to boost innovation and patents. We were expecting incentives for export, but nothing was announced,“ said Bharat Biotech CMD Krishna Ella.
 
 He, however, said one will have to wait and watch how the government rolls out plans to eradicate kala azar and filariasis by 2017, leprosy by 2018, measles by 2020 and tuberculosis by 2025. This move can have a positive impact on the vaccine industry , experts from the industry said.
 
 Terming it a balanced and safe budget,   Ltd chair person and managing director Kiran Mazumdar Shaw said she hoped the government will announce bigger investments in science and technology at the academic level. “I would also have been happy if the government had sent out signals to reduce tax for large corporates as it did for MSMEs.“
 
 Pointing out that FM did not specifically address imminent challenges affecting the sector, Utkarsh Palnitkar, national head (life sciences practice), KPMG India, said: “To remain competitive in the global market and given the uncertain global climate, specific impetus or incentives were expected for innovation in weighted deduction on R&D, incentives for patents, exemptions on duties and taxes,“ said Utkarsh Palnitkar.
 
 “Existing tax rate of 30% without significant incentive may weigh in the minds of large biotech players while looking at making fresh investments in India. On the other hand, biotech companies who qualify as MSME with a turnover of less than `50 crore will be able to enjoy the lower tax rate of 25% and can plough back savings into the busi ness,“ said Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP partner Rajesh Srinivasan, who is the tax leader for Life Sciences and Health care industry .
 
 Shivendra Bajaj, executive director, Association of Biotechnology Led EnterprisesAgriculture Focused Group (ABLE-AG), said though the budget was focused on providing an impetus to rural India, it would have been better if it had taken a holistic look at the farm sector and linked it with initiatives aimed at India's numerous agriculture colleges and agri-biotechnology sector.
 
