Chennai: Industry lobby body Confederation of Indian Industry on Monday said there was a business case for lowering taxes for small businesses.

 “We at CII believe that lower income tax and interest rates are important,” Shobana Ka (CII) mineni, president of CII said. 
 
 “For the SMEs, taxes must be lowered to 18% from the present 25%. There is a business case for this. But, the lowering of rates should ensure that there is no grandfathering of concessions,” she said, indicating the need to dismantle all other concessions.
 
 Kamineni said that the current laws were archaic whereby a small business unit gets defined based on the plant and machinery it has. 
 
 “We seek a new law which will broadbase the definition and say that a SME gets into that business based on the number of people it employs and not just on plant and machines,” she said.
 
 Besides, the CII also wants a two year inspection holiday for the SME businesses. “We want a self certification scheme for SMEs without any inspections for two year period. This will help small businesses,” she said.
 
 Given the low inflation rates and subdued investment conditions, CII recommends a cut in the interest rates to boost demand and new investments, she added.
 
 Speaking on the key sectors of the economy, Kamineni urged for a complete overhaul of the industrial policy in the light of the many changes transforming manufacturing in terms of products, startup and e-commerce disruptions, and technologies. “CII has been working with Department of Industrial Policy & Promotion (DIPP) by submitting its inputs on the new industrial policy,” she said.
 
 She met Tamil Nadu chief minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami earlier in the day and assured him of partnering the state in its growth. 
 
 “CII will project what is available in TN and project its inherent strengths in manufacturing and skilling. A dedicated committee of global leaders who are potential investors in the state will be identified,’ she said. 
 
 She also assured the Tamil Nadu chief minister of CII’s partnership in the planned second edition of Global Investors Summit is planned for the current fiscal and the state has earmarked Rs 75 crore for the event.
 
 
