NAVI MUMBAIi: The anatomy of Indians’ teeth is more complicated than other populations, is the finding of a   conducted by students of a city dental college in association with the  .

 For the past two years, interns and post-graduate students from   have been studying and researching the teeth anatomy of Indian ethnic groups. 
 
 They found that the anatomy of the lower   and second premolars is more complicated than other populations. They also found that the extra root seen in Europeans, Thai and Japanese populations is rare in the upper Indian molars. The Indian teeth also have anatomical patterns which are different than those of American and African teeth and hence Indians require   care during dental treatment.
 
 These findings are of great importance to any dentist doing root canal as correct understanding of the teeth’s anatomy is important for any surgery to be successful. 
 
 Prof Dr Shishir Singh, dean of the college, has done extensive research on South Asian, Indian, Nepalese and Sri Lankan teeth for his doctorate and has roped in students for the research. 
 
 Around 20 students, along with Dr Singh and Dr Mansingh Pawar, the dean of Government Dental College, examined 5,000 teeth to come up with these findings. The teeth were procured from dental colleges in the region.
 
 Dr Singh said the research process was extremely detailed. “The samples are first cleaned and disinfected after which the root canals are accessed and dye is injected in them,” he explained
 
 After drying and decalcification, the specimens are dehydrated in ascending methanol concentrations. “The students study the specimens under special halogen lighting and the root canal anatomy is classified using internationally accepted classifications,” Dr Singh explained.
 
 But the study is still going on and the group is looking for more findings. “There is lot more than can be obtained and more developments are expected,” he added.
 
 The study found that the anatomy of Indians’ lower canines and second premolars is more complicated than other populations. They also found that the extra root seen in Europeans, Thai and Japanese populations is rare in the upper Indian molars
 
 
