MUMBAI: The   has identified a total of 185   spots where it needs to put mitigation measures in place before the onset of the monsoon, expected in a month now. Of these 66 are  , or spots where water takes a long time to recede, and 119 are localized flooding spots.

 The BMC also plans to commission the Gazdarbandh pumping station early in June. 
 
 Activists said that despite spending crores on commissioning   in Haji Ali, Cleveland (Worli), Lovegrove (Worli), Irla (Vile Parle) and Britannia (Reay Road) to stop water-logging, the city had not experienced any great relief in times of heavy rain. 
 
 “The commissioning of these pumping stations has not given any major relief and this is proved every time there is heavy rain,” Kings Circle activist Nikhil Desai said. “The city continues to get  .” 
 
 Municipal officials said there used to be 259 chronic flooding spots but the number had come down to 55 after the BMC began implementation of the Brimstowad (Brihanmumbai Storm Water Drain) project from 2007. Under the project the BMC undertook works to widen and deepen nullahs and construct pumping stations. 
 
 Then, 11 spots were added after the large-scale flooding of June 19, 2015, when there was over 200 mm of rain in 24 hours. 
 
 The island city has the most chronic flooding spots at 36, the western suburbs have 22 spots, and in the eastern suburbs there are eight, said an official. “Work is already in progress to ensure that these spots witness less flooding,” the official said.
 
 In the city, F-North ward has the maximum chronic spots at 10. In the western suburbs, H-East ward has six chronic flooding spots. In the eastern suburbs, five are in L ward.
 
 City BJP chief and MLA Ashish Shelar in a letter to CM Devendra Fadnavis demanded that the BMC every day put up on social media sites like Facebook and Twitter the status of desilting works till June 10. He said contact numbers of site engineers and contractors be made public. He said IIT or NEERI should audit the BMC   every year.
 
