PUNE:   booked an   for stalking a 53-year-old   and   for the last four days.

 According to the complainant, the man tracked her down through the organization where she works, and harassed her by incessantly calling her on her cellphone. He spoke to her in an obscene manner.
 
 The man first made contact with her on May 12, and started speaking to her lewdly. She was inclined to ignore him at first. But events took a worrying turn when the woman realized the stalker had personal information about her, prompting her to lodge a police complaint.
 
 S M Bobade, assistant inspector of the Chatushrungi police, told TOI that the police have booked the culprit under IPC Section 354 (D) (stal king), 507 (criminal intimidation by an anonymous communication) and Section 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman).
 
 “We haven't ascertained his identity yet, but we have his cellphone number, and we have launched a manhunt,“ Bobade said.
 
 The complainant told TOI that the man has a history of harassing other women. “After he started harassing me, I did some digging around, and discovered he harassed a few co-workers too,“ she said.
 
 She also found out that he stalked other women in her professional circle too.
 
 The man called the organization where she worked, and told the office that he owns a bungalow in Talegaon, which he wanted to donate to women in need. He asked for contact details of the person in charge, and managed to get the complainant's number. “He (immediately) started harassing me over the phone. He would talk to me in a very bad language,“ she said.
 
 Initially , she ignored the calls. “But I got frightened when he named the building where I live. He also knew what time I go to the gym, and also the address of my workplace. That was when I decided to approach the police,“ she said.
 
 In fact, the stalker called her when she was in the police station. “He was nonchalant when I told him I was with the police. He was brazen enough to claim that he was related to the chief minister, and also that his wife was a police officer,“ she said, urging the police to apprehend him at the earliest. “If he is not arrested soon, he will harass other women too.
 
