BENGALURU: The   (BDA) is set to complete soil testing for the controversial   ahead of the third hearing of petitions challenging the project. The southern bench of the   (NGT) in Chennai will hear the petitions in Chennai on Wednesday. NGT has stayed any work on the project but the tender has not been called off.

 Bengaluru development minister   has even said the state has readied the work order and is waiting for the litigation to be over. However, activists want the government to cancel the tender. 
 
 Experts say the clauses in the tender matter to both parties — BDA and the contractor, Larsen and Toubro. “If the tender has a clause which imposes a penalty on the government if it fails to allow the contractor to start work, the government will have to pay fine to the latter. This means for Larsen and Toubro, it is not a complete loss if it loses the project,” said V Ravichandar, civic expert.
 
 Calling on citizens to step up vigil, he said, “A number of projects are being taken up like the suburban rail, procurment of 2,100 buses for BMTC and the renovation of Church Street. But the steel flyover is still not welcome.”
 
 On Monday, Chief minister Siddaramaiah met and assured the members of Citizens for Bengaluru (CfB) that he will press for equal sharing of funds for the suburban rail project while signing a pact with the railways. “The government has understood the power of citizen activism and heeded to our demands for the suburban rail. With the same wisdom, it should cancel the tender for the steel flyover. The suburban rail is citizens’ alternative to the flyover and we are still against the project,” said  , member of CfB.
 
 He said the battle to get the government and railways to act on the suburban rail project only strengthens the movement against the flyover, which BDA is set to construct between Basaveshwara Circle and Hebbal at a cost of Rs 2,100 crore.
 
 Alavilli said NGT allowing BDA to conduct soil testing cannot be seen as the government’s victory. “How can BDA ready the tender and work order before understanding the soil conditions? Which company would do that first? BDA begged to undertake preparatory work for the flyover and NGT allowed it. This doesn’t mean the project will get a green signal from the tribunal. There are enough grounds for the court to nix the project. The government should cancel the tender instead of spending public money on fighting the issue in court,” he told TOI.
 
