JAIPUR: A show-cause notice has been issued to  , the custodian of the   which was abused at Amber Fort, by the   (CWLW) of the Rajasthan forest department.

 This follows a complaint filed by the People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) India after an American tourist reported the merciless beating of the animal, used for rides at the historical spot.
 
 The notice was issued by deputy forest officer (DFO) Sudarshan Sharma to Khan, a resident of Ghat Gate in Jaipur.
 
 The show-cause notice states that the investigation carried out by the regional forest officer (RFO) of Jaipur Zoo as well as the newspaper article and photograph published indicate that the elephant (No 44) was treated cruelly. The American tourist had reported to PETA that eight men, including the mahout, had beaten the animal with sticks for up to 10 minutes.
 
 According to the notice, the investigation conducted by the RFO revealed that the elephant was not adequately fed, forcing it to go after a banana and eventually attacking another elephant (No 97), breaking a boom barrier. The notice further pointed out that the photograph taken by the tourist clearly showed that the elephant was being beaten or threatened. According to the notice, both acts—failing to provide adequate food and threatening or beating a wild animal—are covered under the category of ‘cruelty,’ as per the 2008 ‘Guidelines for Care and Management of Captive Elephants,’ issued by the ministry of environment, forest and climate change.
 
 The June 29 notice asked the   to submit the vaccination, disease and treatment records; movement, feeding, and work registers; and all other records to the office of the DFO within five days, along with an explanation.
 
 “Beating, threatening and not properly feeding an elephant, a highly protected species under the law, is a serious crime. PETA is calling for the perpetrators to be punished to the fullest extent of the law and for officials to seize the animal and transfer her to a reputable elephant care centre, where she can get the care she needs, live unchained, and enjoy the company of other elephants,” said Dr Manilal Valliyate, PETA, CEO.
 
 
