SHIMLA: The intense cold prevailing in the region took its toll on Wednesday when five people died of suffocation and two others were found dead in Shimla. The temperatures remained below the freezing point at most places in the state with more snow and rain, a met official said here.

 According to police, the five persons who died at Chaili area of Shimla, all carpenters from Bihar and West Bengal, had kept a coal brazier (angithi) in their room to beat the chill before sleeping.They died of asphyxia due to carbon monoxide gas emitted from the brazier.
 
 The bodies were first noticed by the person who had hired them for work at his house in Shadog area. The victims have been identified as Deven, Sapan and Munna from Kishanganj district of Bihar. Police have sent all bodies to   and Hospital for autopsy and informed their relatives about the death, informed Shimla superinten dent of police D W Negi.
 
 Meanwhile, Ram, 43, from Rohru of Shimla was found dead at Khadrala. Area pradhan informed the police about his death. Apparent cause of death is hypothermia as his body was lying in the open. In another case, Nepalese labouror Dev Singh, 40, was found dead near Anu Kansakoti of Rohru. Inquiry revealed that he too died due to hypothermia. He possibly had cosumed alcohol.
 
 The state capital that saw one cm of snowfall recorded the minimum temperature at 3.2 degree Celsius below the freezing point. Bharmour in Chamba district had 10 cm of snowfall in the past 24 hours, which is the state's highest.
 
 Keylong in   and Spiti district was the coldest place in the state with a minimum temperature recorded at minus 11.4째C, while the temperature was minus 8.6째C in Kalpa in   district, minus 6.6째C in Manali, but 7.2째C in Dharamshala.
 
 Manali and Kalpa towns saw six cm and eight cm of snowfall, respectively .
 
 Meanwhile, in another case, Bhopal S Kapatia, senior superintendent in directorate of animal husbandry , Shimla, was found dead at his residence in Vikas Bhavan of Chakkar. According to police, he possibly died of some health problem. He was living alone for the past few days as he had sent his children to Sugha village at Rampur before the snowfall, said DSP Rajinder Sharma.
 
