HYDERABAD: The Telangana government's latest decision to make   compulsory for classes 1 to 12 has not gone down well either with teachers or parents, who feel that the move may adversely impact children who do not know the language at all. Children of `migrant' parents, who move to Hyderabad for a brief period for professional reasons, might be hit the most, they claimed.

 “Imposing a language on students is not going to serve any purpose. A move like this will lead to the creation of small islands within the country and will separate students from one another. Also, I don't understand how Telugu is going to help class 11 and 12 students in competitive exams,“ Anjali Razdan, principal, P Obul Reddy Public School, said.
 
 Agreeing with Razdan, E Raghunandan, a government teacher, said at least students from other states should be allowed to opt for special English in place of of Telugu. “Many students travel from one state to another whenever their parents get transferred. Asking these kids to study the state language -each time they move base -is not fair. Moreover, how do you expect them to learn an `alien' language and appear for exams,“ questioned Raghunandan.
 
 While stressing how students should not be forced to learn a new language, when they already have three languages in the curriculum, teachers further said that the state's move is also against the concept of globalisation.
 
 The sentiments of parents weren't very different. Lashing out at the authorities for taking unilateral decisions, they said that the government should have first conducted a survey to assess if a move like this would work or not. “There is still a lot of confusion regarding the subject. When are they going to implement it? If they are only asking students starting out from Class 1to study the language, then it is not a major issue. But if they force a child studying in Class 8 or 9, who hasn't studied Telugu earlier, to suddenly opt for it, then it is unfair,“ said Aravinda Jata, president,  .
 
 The move was welcomed by certain sections of people who insisted that students must learn Telugu, as it will help them get an insight into the state's culture and tradition.
 
 “These days many schools do not even offer Telugu as a subject. Hence, I feel this move will make a difference and let children learn about their state and their language,“ said G Satish of the Telangana Inter College Association.
 
 
