NEW DELHI: The victory in   appears to have revitalised  , which held the reins in   for three successive terms before being routed by AAP in 2015. As the party looks to finalise candidates for the 272 municipal seats, its campaign this time is centred around providing people a roadmap for civic revamp.

 The All India Congress Committee on Wednesday formed a team of observers — drawing upon its resources from among ex-MPs and MLAs from states like Rajasthan, Bihar, Jharkhand, MP and Tamil Nadu — to interact with workers and party functionaries across 14 districts. 
 
 Congress received some 10,000 applications from aspirants for the 272 wards and a shortlist of 4,000 has already been drawn. Based on feedback from workers and senior party functionaries, this list would be further pruned by next week.
 
 Asked if the performance of the AAP government in Delhi and that of the BJP-led corporations will be the main poll plank for the party, Delhi Congress chief Ajay   told TOI, “Our campaign will be a positive one. We want to give people solutions.”
 
 He added: “We began by presenting a fiscal management plan for corporations. Now, we will give people a plan for solid waste management. People want solutions for a better life and we will take these plans to them and ask for an opportunity to turn them into a reality.” 
 
 Earlier this month, former Union ministers P Chidambaram and Jyotiraditya Scindia had unveiled a “draft blueprint for self-reliant municipal corporations”. 
 
 Maken claimed that the party’s “turnaround” in Delhi began with the bye-elections to 13 municipal wards last year where Congress won five of the 13 wards. 
 
 Earlier this year, a municipal councillor from AAP joined Congress, taking the tally to six. 
 
 “What is significant about these 13 wards was that Congress had not won these wards for many years and to have won five seats was a very important sign for us,” Maken said. 
 
 Between the 2013 assembly polls and the 2014 Lok Sabha elections, and then the assembly polls in 2015, the Congress vote bank dissipated and finally shifted enmass to AAP. Congress could not win even a single seat in the 2015 polls. 
 
 The road to revival has not been easy. The party had made no real investment in organisational development at the grassroot level for years. Since 2015, efforts to bring in fresh faces have reinvigorated the workers. 
 
 Recent workers’ conventions in different parts of the city that concluded with an address by Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi at Ramlila Maidan is seen as a step in that direction. 
 
