NOIDA: A 27-year-old software engineer, who had come to meet a colleague at a highrise residential building in Sector 74, died after he mysteriously fell from the sixth floor of the building on Thursday night. 

 The engineer,  , a resident of   in Sector 77, had been staying with three friends — Sahil, Prashant and Ankit — on the 17th floor of the building. An original resident of Bharatpur, Rajasthan, Gaurav was working as a software engineer with Adobe India in Sector 25A. 
 
 On Thursday around 9.45 pm, he came to visit a woman colleague at Grand Ajnara Heritage in Sector 74 who stays on the sixth floor of the society. 
 
 According to the residents of the highrise, the security guards suddenly heard a thud sound. “The guards were at the main gate when he fell from the highrise. They rushed to the spot and found him lying on the ground with serious injuries on his head and body,” said a resident who wished to remain anonymous.
 
  Since it was night and the guards were at some distance, they could not notice the floor from where he fell.
 
 The guards soon alerted the residents and rushed him to a hospital. They also informed police. The police identified the victim with the help of the identity card found around his neck. 
 
 The police then contacted the officials of Adobe company. The company then shared the information about Gaurav’s family members who live in Rajasthan.
 
 Gaurav succumbed to his injuries in Fortis Hospital, Sector 20 on Friday afternoon. According to doctors, he had received multiple fractures and head injuries. The post-mortem report will reveal the exact cause of death, they said.
 
 However, the police swung into action only in the afternoon after the news of his death spread. 
 
 SHO, Sector 49, Bijendra Bhadana said that a police team reached Grand Ajnara Heritage and questioned the woman whom Gaurav had come to meet. “The woman is also an engineer in the same company. She said that Gaurav had come to meet her at night. According to her, it seemed that he had consumed alcohol. The woman said she talked to her roommates about his visit but then refused to meet him and did not open the gate,” Bhadana said. 
 
 The woman told police she locked the door and returned to her room. “I do not know what happened next,” the woman told police.
 
 According to police, Gaurav soon fell from the floor. They found some CCTV cameras in the area but none of them was working. “We are investigating whether the victim fell from the sixth floor or from some other place. We are probing other possibilities as well. The victim’s family has not given any written complaint in this regard,” the SHO said.
 
 
