GURUGRAM: City-based green activists, on Sunday, threatened to move court over Haryana government’s fresh attempts to allow more   in the ecologically sensitive  . Last week, the state government submitted a proposal to the urban development ministry, demanding that provisions restricting ‘recreational activities’ be lifted on 0.5% of the land in the Aravalis.

 “On the one hand, the authorities are planning to have air purifiers for the city. On the other hand, they are submitting proposals to destroy its green lungs. The current government, which had earlier criticised the previous government for opening up Aravalis to real estate, is now busy doing the same thing. Only the dispensation appears to have changed, not the mindset. All governments remain pro-real estate. The Aravalis is the last green patch protecting Delhi, Gurgaon and Faridabad. For now, we are trying to persuade the state government not to approve the proposal, but if it continues, we’ll approach the National Green Tribunal (NGT),” said Vivek Kamboj of NGO Haryali.
 
 Colonel Sarvadaman Singh Oberoi, a legal expert who has been campaigning for protection of the stretch of Aravalis in Gurgaon and Faridabad, said, “We’re watching each and every move of the state government with a hawk eye. If they try to take any step to allow construction activities in the sensitive Aravali range, we’ll approach the appropriate forum, including the Supreme Court.”
 
 Activists feel doing away with restrictions will open Aravalis for real estate developers. “In its proposal, the state government has said guidelines of the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEF&CC) are enough to safeguard the Aravalis, and additional restriction is not required. However, we fear lifting the restriction will open up Aravalis for more commercial activities,” said Kamboj.
 
 The state government has reportedly sought amendment in a provision of the   (NCRPB)’s Regional Plan 2021, which restricts only 0.5% of the Aravalis for construction, and that too for recreational activities. 
 
 In its proposal, the government has said it is an additional restriction and thus should not be made applicable. In early 2000, the state government had consented to the provision. However, the previous Hooda government demanded the restriction be lifted and real estate activity be allowed in the name of ‘recreational activities’. 
 
 
