LUCKNOW: In another bid to bring   in focus internationally not just for the ongoing  , the Centre has included the city in the PRASAD (Pilgrimage Rejuvenation and Spiritual Augmentation Drive) scheme, in which 12   of the country are included so far.

 With Ayodhya getting municipal corporation status and infrastructure development being upgraded at state government level, the Centre has now included Ayodhya in the scheme. As a tourist destination, the temple town would now see all-round development with aid from the Centre. 
 
 Talking to TOI, religious endowment principal secretary Avinish Awasthi said the scheme is aimed at upgrading sanitation, sewage and drinking water facility at the centre. Among the 12 pilgrim centres covered under the scheme, Mathura and Varanasi were the entries from the state and Ayodhya is the third. 
 
 Elaborating on the rationale behind PRASAD, the Centre’s Tourism Department said the growth of domestic tourism depends largely on pilgirmage and to tap this potential there is need for holistic development of the selected destinations in cooperation with other stake-holders. 
 
 The idea is to enhance the tourism experience by making the destinations more attractive and bridging the infrastructural gaps in collaboration with states/UTs and other stakeholders. 
 
 Elaborating on the objective, the Tourism department stated that integrated development of pilgrimage destinations in a planned, prioritised and sustainable will provide the complete experience. Funds distribution under the scheme from the Centre has also been clarified. First instalment would comrpise 20% of the total project cost once it has been approved, followed by 60% in the second instalment after receipt of utilisation certificate and remaining 20% after the utilisation certificate for second instalment is received. Other than Varanasi, Mathura and now Ayodhya, pilgrime destinations Amritsar, Kedarnath, Ajmer, Gaya, Kamakhya, Dwarka, Puri, Amaravati, Kanchipuram, Vellankanni will also gradually become part of the PRASAD project. 
 
 
