AHMEDABAD: In what may be called the mother of all ironies, a nonagenarian, who is a  , is resisting her deportation to America citing she wants to spend her last years in her motherland.

 Ailing Kantaben Shah (90), who remains mostly confined to her bed in her elder son Jayesh Shah's house in Paldi due to old age, has written to the Prime Minister   to prevent her from being forcibly sent back to the US.
 
 “I was born in India and spent the entire life in Ahmedabad. I went to the US with my eldest son and on insistence of my younger son, I obtained  . Unfortunately, due to best reasons known to him, my younger son has sent me back to India even without checking my valid visa. At present, I am living in Paldi with my elder son. I was given 72 hour visa as per norms. I have made representations to external affairs minister   and home minister Rajnath Singh for my stay in India.Help me out as I am in no position to go back to the USA and stay with my younger son".
 
 It needs mention that Kantaben reached Ahmedabad on November 15, 2016 on an invalid visa after she was put on a flight to India by her younger son, who runs a motel in Talsa city of Oklahoma.
 
 She had a five-year visiting visa for India, which expired on August 15, 2016.
 
 The authorities here gave her 72-hour visa as per norms in order to make arrangements to go back to the US. Her pleas to allow her to spend rest of her life in India made to all political and departmental authorities with ministries of home and external affairs were turned down.
 
 On January 12, the   (FRRO) gave her an ultimatum to appear before him after arranging an air ticket for the USA as early as possible.
 
 Kantaben, however, is adamant not to go back to the US, come what may. “I have no one to talk to in US. I am forced to live in motel run by my son as the house is so deserted,“ she said.
 
 Kantaben's son Jayesh says he is clueless about what course of action to take in case authorities remain adamant on sending her back to US. “First of all, we failed to understand how she came to India without visa. With her failing health and her ironwillingness not to leave India, can authorities guarantee her safe transportation to US,“ says Jayesh.
 
 
  
 
