BENGALURU:  ,   at the time of its creation, was inaugurated in the city's southernmost part in 1948 by  , the  . The   built here the same year soon became the area's best known landmark.

 Jayanagar residents, some who have lived here for over half a century, can trace the locality's transition from a quiet, green suburb to a bustling and crowded commerical hub.
 
 L N Guru Kumar, president of Jayanagar 1st Block RWA, remembers the time when the block's temperature used to be a few degrees lower than that the rest of the city because of its proximity to Lalbagh. “But that's only in memory now. With illegal commercialization of once-quiet neighbourhoods, Jayanagar has lost its peace and tranquility. The roads are clogged with traffic and pedestrians have no place to walk. Sometimes it takes us more than 10 minutes to cross the main road,“ he says.
 
 “We had three main broad roads that connected different parts of Jayanagar, and while the rest of the roads were nar row (very few were broader than 40 feet), they were more than sufficient for us. Now, with rampant commercializa tion, there aren't enough parking facili ties and the roads here are full of cars,“ Kumar says.
 
 Teeming with tens of shops and eateries, both 3rd and 4th blocks are now facing a parking crunch, with cars parked all along the narrow lanes in the residential areas, troubling the residents.
 
 “The narrow streets here have a number of offices and commercial buildings which don't have basement parking, so people park their cars on the sides of the road,“ says N S Mukunda, president of the Citizens Action Forum and a Jayanagar resident for the past 45 years.
 
 Mukunda recalls the day when cars parked outside a house in the area became a problem for its residents who had to take out the body of one of their relatives who had died. They could not even contact the car owners who were away .
 
 The CDP (comprehensive development plan) 2015, released in 2007, followed something called mix-zone planning, allowing commer cial establishments in residential areas. A group of Jayanagar residents filed a writ petition before the high court in 2007-08, which said that in certain residential zones land could only be used for residential and not for commerical activities.Finally in 2015, the court ruled against commercial activity on residential roads narrower than 40 feet.
 
 Residents of Jayanagar, however, say that despite the court order, cafes, shops and hotels continue to operate in zones considered purely residential. “Initially, the BBMP had cracked down on a few establishments, but no action is being taken lately,“ says C M Kumar, a resident of Jayanagar 1st block. He, along with the rest of the 1st Block RWA members, has been taking up the issue with the BBMP.
 
 
