This year could be a litmus test for  . 

 Sure, he's made rapid strides and has become one of the most sought after actors in Mollywood. But he's not taking anything for granted, he says. Tovino plays the lead in two upcoming movies '   and   ' and the films will also have him trying his hand at comedy, a genre he hasn't ventured much into.
 
 The actor talks to us about his new releases, his tryst with comedy and more'
 
 
 
 Contrary to what a lot of people think, it's not a 'mass movie' but a comedy entertainer. It's got a bit of everything ' there's emotional drama, romance, sports and also comedy. What interested me the most was its casting ' who better to cast as a veteran wrestler than Renji Panicker sir? Then there's Wamiqa Gabbi, who is an amazing actress and she's performed really well in the movie.
 
  When its director Basil told me about the movie, my first thought wasn't to develop a supermodel's physique with six-pack abs. Unlike the 40-year-old guy in  , my character in the movie is below 25 years. So, I just had to have a wrestler's athletic and healthy body and strived hard to achieve that.
 
 
 
 I think the only movie in which I had done comedy was You Too Brutus. It's a movie that a lot of people have seen and a lot haven't. But I believe that a lot of people will see and enjoy Godha. I just finished dubbing my part last week. I don't believe in saying that my film is going to be great because that's for the audience to decide. But personally, I am very confident about Godha.
 
 
 
 A lot of people are comparing Godha with other movies just because it has wrestling. In Malayalam, we have had films on the sport before, such as Oridathoru Phayalvaan and Mutharamkunnu P O. 
 
 When Sultan and Dangal hit theatres, no one ever said it was copied from our movies. But when we released Godha's first look posters, a few people had asked us if it was inspired from Sultan? That's not fair. I don't think our filmmakers are bereft of ideas. We have often come up with movies that stood above Bollywood films, in terms of quality, craft and performance. So these questions dishearten us. You can't compare Malayalam films with the ones in Hindi, which are made with such big budgets. 
 
 
 
 It's an entirely different movie from Godha. I have a humour track in the movie too ' whether it makes the audience laugh or not, is for them to decide (laughs).
 Oru Mexican Aparatha is a campus movie that is set in 2004, an era that is not much explored in Malayalam cinema. You can't call it a period movie, yet it's been over a dozen years. It's set in a campus which is quite different from the professional colleges of today.
 
 Back in 2006, I studied in an engineering college in Tamil Nadu and it's totally different from the one in this movie. So, while shooting for the film, I got to experience a bit of that nostalgia. I always longed to study in an arts college and I think shooting for the movie sort of made up for that.
 
 
 
 I have done films as a hero earlier but that was before I got a big break with  . Even my previous movie, Guppy, was more of Chetan Jeyalal's film; I have only done an important role in the film.
 
 The only reason why I would want to be a hero now is because I want to do meatier roles. But I will still be unhappy if I become typecast as a hero. I would then look out for a side role or villain which has a lot more to offer in terms of performance. Like Soubin Shahir's character in Premam says, 'Simple aayittula steps enikku pattila. Enikke paadullathey pattullu.' (laughs) I want to be challenged rather than stay in the safe zone. Otherwise I will get bored and eventually the audience will too get bored of me.
 
 So, more than being a hero, I make it a point to choose roles that have something new and exciting for me to do. 
 
 
