NAGPUR: Ahead of the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) elections, All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) chief Asaduddin   said the   was the worst   and it had misused and abused   as a vote bank. 

 The Hyderabad MP, who was in the city said now the people will teach the Congress a lesson as he tried to woo his Muslim vote bank by promising improvement in civic amenities in areas they reside. 
 
 Addressing a public rally in Tipu Sultan Chowk in Yeshodhara Nagar, Owaisi pointed out that the Congress leaders fear that AIMIM would divide Muslim votes, considered the traditional vote bank of the Congress.
 
 “It is not the splitting of the Muslim votes in Maharashtra that led to the Congress’s defeat, but its their failure,” he said and also cited example of Nagpur city, where ex MP Vilas Muttemwar lost his election to Nitin Gadkari, whereas all six MLA seats were won by BJP candidates. 
 
 He also announced that in the next assembly elections for Maharashtra state, the AIMIM will going to field candidates in fray. 
 
 Asaduddin Owaisi alleged that the successive governments in both NMC and in state have failed to develop the social and economic conditions of Muslim community in Nagpur.
 
 Asaduddin Owaisi made several promises for the upcoming NMC elections as well as also took a dig on the BJP ruled NMC on various issues.
 
 Owaisi alleged that the ruling government in NMC did not work for the Muslim population in the city and despite having more than 20% of the population in the city, Muslims haven't received what they deserve. He also cited examples of pathetic civic conditions in Muslim dominated areas like Mominpura, Hasanbagh etc
 
 Muslims represent around 20% of total populations in the city. If the budget of NMC is Rs1,470 crore, the equal development works should be carried out in these areas too, he said and citied examples of injustice done to Muslim dominated areas by NMC as it opened the physiotherapy clinic in Mahal. “Why it was not opened in Mominpura or any other area dominated by minority people,” asked Owaisi. 
 
 AIMIM is contesting from 19 seats in the city in NMC elections and the party is trying to target the Muslims and Dalit population of the city. The party has fielded candidates in ward numbers 3, 6, 30, 11, 19 and 8. They included Nazim Khan, Bhagyashree Kochande, Sandip Meshram, Saeeda Begum, Farooq Malik, Shahida Raza, Rubina Sheikh, Jeevan Ramteke, Nafisa Siraj, Mohammed Danish, Akhtar Ansari and Dr Seema Mohammed Azhar. Barring the public meeting, Owaisi didn’t participate in any rally for his party candidates during his visit.
 
 
