New Delhi:  , the 38-year-old paedophile who was arrested last week, used to prey on five-six children at a time and lure them to a predesignated spot, investigations have revealed. 

 On December 13, he had targeted three other girls in   before zeroing in on the last victim whom he had brutalised. After committing the crime, he would leave the area for a month and return later. Cops said Rastogi was   and chose to strike only on Tuesdays. 
 
 In a fresh   footage provided by the parents of one of the children, who escaped his clutches, Rastogi is seen luring a 10-year-old girl to a rented house. In the clip, the accused is also seen stalking the girl for nearly five minutes before he approached her to ask her name. He first made sure that the victim was far enough from her house and was not accompanied by a relative. The girl’s parents, however, did not report the matter to the police initially.
 
 Police have identified two specific apartments at A-block where he used to take the girls. The man who own both the houses may be questioned. The probe revealed that Rastogi chose the space under the staircase or the terrace to commit the crime. 
 
 Another kid who escaped unscathed from his clutches on January 12 had told cops that he had a rented room at A-block. “He had asked me and my sibling to wait outside the room and tried opening the lock with a key during which I managed to run out of the house,” she said.
 
 After Rastogi was dismissed from his job in 2004, one day his employer had found him stealing clothes from his shop. “I was not aware of the fact that he was a sexual predator, but he used to take long breaks on the pretext of relieving himself,” said the owner of the tailoring shop at A-block where Rastogi worked. 
 
 While probing the rape case registered on December 13, cops found some   footage in which he was partially visible. A month later, the police found some more footage, which showed his face. They started scanning suspects in Tihar and other jails in the neighbouring states to know status of paedophiles being released on bail. One such profile matched with that of Rastogi, following which they had started a door-to-door search to nab him. 
 
 The investigation also revealed that he had carried a mobile phone and pretended as if he was making a call, in front of the victims to gain their confidence.
 
