Hyderabad: As many as 95,000 passengers have been travelling each day out of Secunderabad railway station in the past three days, indicating a huge rush due to the long weekend and Dasara vacation.

 Despite an increase in the number of trains this year compared to last year, passengers are facing severe hardships to get into the trains to reach their destinations in two Telugu states. On an average, around 20,000 more passengers are flooding the railway station than during normal days, according to SCR officials.
 
 A passenger,   who was heading to  , said, “the rush is huge. I booked my ticket a month ago, and yet am still on the waiting list. Even the special trains are packed."
 
 South Central Railway collected 30 percent extra fare from the passengers on all spe cial trains for the Dasara and Diwali vacation and the platform ticket was also increased from `10 to `20 till October 3. 
 
 SCR chief commercial in spector N   said, “We are operating 315 special trains for Dasara and Diwali this year as against 140 last year. Besides this, 128 long-distance special trains pass through SCR during the festival period. Special trains are operational from Hyderabad, Secunderabad and Kachiguda stations to different destinations like Vijayawada,  , Visakhapatnam, Patna, Raxaul, Guwahati, Bikaner, Kochuveli, Tatanagar, Jaipur, Darbhanga and Barauni. We are also running trains from Tirupati to Nagarsol, Nanded, Visakhapatnam and Kakinada. To discourage rush on platforms, as a security measure, cost of platform ticket is increased from Rs. 10 to Rs. 20 at Secunderabad and Vijayawada stations."
 
 The rush gave porters and touts an opportunity to make a quick buck. They took advantage of special trains and were selling seats in general compartments to desperate passengers for a price ranging between `100 and `200.
 
  spokesperson said almost all flights were booked for Dasara. “We are running scheduled flights to all destinations. There could be some seats vacant for which pricing is dynamic." Banks will be closed on Thursday on Durgasthami, and on 30 September for Dasara, and October 2 for Gandhi Jayanthi.
 
