COIMBATORE: As the news about   general secretary V K Sasikala’s conviction broke, celebrations began among supporters of chief minister O Panneerselvam and former chief minister J Jayalalithaa’s niece J Deepa. People distributed sweets and burst crackers to celebrate the conviction of  , her sister-in-law Elavarasi and Jaya's disowned son V N Sudhakaran.

 While the AIADMK office on Hosur Road remained lull and deserted, celebrations began on Puliyakulam Road. AIADMK cadres burst crackers, waved the party flag and distributed sweets to passers-by. A similar situation was seen at former mayor T Malaravan's house who now backs Deepa.
 
 At the party office though there was mixed reactions. While some expressed disappointment, a few welcomed the verdict. Supporters of Sasikala got furious when few partymen ostensibly Panneerselvam supporters said they welcomed the verdict. 
 
 The   supporters were forcibly sent out of the party office premises for welcoming the verdict. CV Arun, a member of AIADMK from Kurichi, was one of those who welcomed the verdict. “Today is Diwali for all true AIADMK members. Sasikala’s family members should leave the Poes Garden and the house should be handed over to former chief minister J Jayalalithaa’s niece Deepa or the party,” said Arun.
 
 Meanwhile, a group of AIADMK cadres forcibly sent him out of the party office. They also threatened media persons not to enter the party’s office. More than 20 police personnel were deployed at the party office to prevent any untoward incidents. But soon after the judgment was pronounced, most of the cadres left the office. Police said all AIADMK MLAs’ offices were also given additional police protection.
 
 Though most MLAs remained in Chennai on Tuesday, Kavundamapalayam MLA V C Arukutty landed in the city around 12noon. His supporters and family members gathered at his residence and congratulated him for taking a stand and being the first to support Panneerselvam. The headmaster of Vilankurichi Government Higher Secondary School, P Janarthanan, said, “Arukutty has been easily accessible, and has always stood up for our issues. We are happy that he was the first to support Panneerselvam.” Arukutty is an alumnus of the school.
 
 Another supporter of Arukutty, R Jayanthi, an auto driver from Peelamedu too appreciated the leader’s stand. “We are all followers of Amma (Jayalalithaa), and we believe that Panneerselvam is the right leader to continue her legacy. We wish OPS and Arukutty luck for a good and stable government,” she said. 
 
 
