Surat:   

 The business environment in the diamond hub of Varachha, Katargam and Mahidhapura is subdued. The default cases to the tune of over Rs 2,500 crore in Surat, Mumbai and Antwerp has cast a dark shadow along with the GST compliance that has taken away the sheen from the diamond industry. 
 
 Govind Khopala, a diamond manufacturer in Katargam is in deep trouble post-GST. In the last two months, his factory employing over 100 workers has processed only 20% of the polished diamonds in the last three months.
 
 “This is going to be the worst-ever Diwali for the industry. Many small and medium units like us are in trouble. It was tough for me to clear the inventory of polished diamonds in last two months, offering heavy discount to the traders. We have to pay 3 per cent GST to the traders, which actually robs our profit margin” says Govind. 
 
 Another diamond manufacturer, Kailash Viradiya, who runs a small unit having 50 workers in Mahihdhapura said, “I have been paying half the wages to the workers without any work. From last one month, we have not processed a single stone in the factory. This time around, we are planning to close the factory after October 1.” 
 
 Industry sources said the polished diamond moves through several hands before it is exported from India and imposition of GST at every transaction or dealing is leading to bottlenecks and blockage of the capital in way of exports as it attracts payment of taxes and subsequent refund after exports. 
 
 Lot of small units do not have cash flow or loan from banks to support the immediate payment of GST and have reduced manufacturing which is evident from declined exports of last two months. 
 
 “No other competing diamond processing country has this type of system of levying of GST and refund after exports. In other competing countries such as Belgium or Israel, transactions taking place between a diamond dealer, manufacturer and exporter are controlled and monitored by allotting a special GST number,” said president of Surat Diamond Association (SDA), Babu Gujarati.
 
 “Any transaction taking place inside the circle with such GST number is exempted from payment of GST , whereas transactions outside this circle is taxed at normal GST rate. G & J trade is not looking for any exemption but a system prevailing internationally for such transactions which are also export oriented” Gujarati added.
 
 
