MANGALURU: It is not an epistle that one expects to land on their doorsteps every day. So, when eminent saxophone artist   got one, he chose to take the objective in the letter to his heart figuratively than literally. This can be gauged from the fact that Gopalnath has now come forward to construct two toilets for DK Zilla Panchayat Higher Primary School at Bengre under the   and foundation stone for it will be laid on Wednesday.

 The letter in question dated September 9 was from Prime Minister  , who exhorted the artist to contribute his mite to the national cleanliness campaign. Gopalnath told reporters on Tuesday, “I respect his (PMs) objective (on cleanliness), and am responding to it in my own way (by coming forward to build toilets for the school nearing 100-years). It is my duty as citizen of this country to respond to PMs appeal, (and) is purely an apolitical decision.”
 
 Incidentally, this is not the first time that the artist has reacted to a national appeal. A televised speech of then PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee at the height of Kargil War saw Gopalnath take the lead in gathering nearly 400 artists at a music concert. The artist of repute who performed from 8am to 10pm did not accept any remuneration, rather ended up contributing for the Kargil Relief Fund. Even the royalty from the sale of concert records too was given for the relief fund.
 
 The school in question, Gopalnath says at present has one toilet and the 60-odd students who study there have to wait their turn. “It is a school located in idyllic location spread over five to six acres of land. The poor student strength at the school can be attributed to its dilapidated condition, which will certainly make any parent apprehensive to send their wards there,” he said. “Ensuring a clean hygienic surroundings in schools too is very much part of Swachh Bharat,” he noted.
 
 Ready to coordinate a fund raiser on lines of Chennai effort locally for Swachh Bharat, Gopalnath said, “The campaign requires funds and I will do my bit for it.” Having toured extensively in India and abroad, Gopalnath said, “I have enlisted support of my children Manikanth and Guruprasad to scout for potential areas where I can individually or collectively with help from artist fraternity, friends and well-wishers, make my contribution for Swachh Bharat.”
 
  
 
