SURAT: Even 10 days after visit of Prime Minister  , the customs authorities are yet to allot new dates for the inspection of the facilities at the  , which is seen as crucial to clear way for the customs notified status by the   ( ). 

 The customs department had scheduled the inspection visit at the airport on March 7. However, due to PM’s visit to Dahej and Bharuch, the customs department had to cancel the visit, stating that new dates will be announced soon. 
 
 Even after 10 days, the department is yet to communicate to the airport authorities regarding the inspection of the terminal building. 
 
 The airport crusaders believe that if the inspection is held by the end of this month, then the CBEC may clear the customs notified status for the airport in the next two months. 
 
 “The modification work inside the terminal building has been taken up on war footing for separating the arrival and departure areas for the international and domestic travelers. We need clearance from the customs department on the space required for setting up customs facility for the international operations. This can be done only after the inspection visit of the customs officials,” said an airport officer seeking anonymity. 
 
 He added, “We are waiting for the communication from the local customs office on the new dates, which is yet to be received.”
 
 Regional executive director (western region) of AAI, K Hemalatha had written to the DG, CBEC requesting to notify Surat airport as the customs notified airport for carrying out international flight and cargo operations by first quarter of 2017. Hemalatha stated that the AAI has identified Surat airport in the western region, which has strong potential for international flight operations. 
 
 At present, Surat airport has only domestic connectivity to Mumbai and Delhi. As per the data, during the year 2015-16, about four lakh passengers from Surat travelled to international destinations through Mumbai and Ahmedabad airport. 
 
 As per the data, about 7,000 metric tonnes of cargo is currently airlifted via Mumbai, therefore facilitating direct airlifting of cargo from Surat to benefit the trade and industries. 
 
 AAI has recently formed a separate cargo handling company AAI-CLAS through which it proposes to provide cargo handling facilities at Surat airport.
 
