NAGPUR: Dr  , 72, defied his age to top the 55 and above age category of the city  . The well-known city-based sexologists and power yoga guru completed the 21km-run in one hour and 50 minutes to top the category. Bhoyarwas in no way the odd man out in the youthful crowd at the police headquarters’ Shivaji stadium on Sunday.

 If Bhoyar’s herculean effort was a showstopper, differently abled 30-year-old assistant commissioner of custom and central excise   M proved that the challenge of congenital deformity can be tamed with a strong willpower. Sreejith completed the 21-km run in one hour and 48 minutes in 18-40 age group category to win the consolation prize. Sreejith, an affable Indian revenue service (IRS) officer of 2014 batch and a B Tech graduate, practices triathlon when not attending office. He has also participated in several marathons countrywide. 
 
 If the likes of Bhoyar and Sreejith won applauses, 11-year-old Amrut Dande, who ran with his gynaecologist mother Dr Seema, too won many hearts. Amrut, a student of standard fourt of Bhavans, Civil Lines, was the youngest participant in the 10 km long run which he completed in 75 minutes. 
 
 Bhoyar, who started sprinting at 66, said he switched from walking after getting bored with it. “Sex, running and exercises are sound triggers for release of endorphins which makes you feel great and happier. Even to prolong one’s sexual life one needs to exercise and run as these activities increase the male hormone of testoterone. I started running to keep myself away from hereditary ailments like diabetes and blood pressure with which most of my family members suffer,” he said. “Running up and down the stairscase at our three-storeyed building was how I had began,” said the septuagenarian who had also won the marathons organized by   (IMA) at Nashik and Amravati last year.
 
 The other lauded participant Sreejith, who had come with his inspectors, also reflected the bold side of life stating that his deformity was ‘actually no big deal’. “ I owe it to my mentor late SL Sreeram and retired director general of National Academy of Customs, Excise & Narcotics  ,” he said. 
 
 State director general of police,  , who too was present along with CP K Venkatesh, said that the police and other related units are being urged to develop public contacts with events involving masses while congratulating the efforts of the city cops. The final results were not declared till the evening. 
 
 
