Recently, a man was able to play a traffic cop and 'challan' people for a week before he got busted. DT finds out how easy it is to impersonate a cop.
 
 What do you do when a traffic police official stops you on the road and challans you? You pay the fine and move on. But how do you know if the traffic cop is real? In a recent incident, a 25-year-old man was arrested for posing as a traffic cop and extorting money from commuters for a whole week in north Delhi. 
 
  
  
 
 
  Talking about the incident, Jatin Narwal, DCP North,  , tells us, "We don't know how he managed to get a fake ID card. We got to know that he purchased the traffic police uniform from a shop in Kingsway Camp." Is the police uniform so easily available that anyone can buy it? The police says that it is not, and even the shopkeepers in   claim that they don’t sell police uniforms without identity verification. However, a visit to the markets of  ,   and Kingsway Camp tells a different story. We went shopping for a traffic police uniform and all it took was 15 minutes and about Rs1,500. The sellers don’t ask for any verification and on being questioned why, they ask, "Koi police uniform le kar kya karega?"
 
  
  (BCCL/ Ranjit Kumar)
 
  
 When we visited shops selling police uniforms in Kingsway Camp, we were told that a traffic police uniform can be made for us within a week. A tailor said, "We can stitch it within a week, and it will cost only Rs800. And we have different varieties of cloths, a better quality uniform will cost around Rs1500-2000."
 
  When asked if they need an ID proof to sell the uniform, a tailor told us, "Koi aur police ki uniform le kar kya karega? Humare yahan se policewale hi kapde le kar jate hain." And how do they know that the person buying the uniform is a police officer and not a fraud? "You get to know. Police officers have certain mannerisms that a fraud will not have. Aur phir humlog bhi baaton-baaton mein sawaal pooch lete hain, ki pehle kahan se uniform banwayi thi. If you ask a real cop to show his ID, he might get angry and go to some other shop," a tailor in the market told us.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 A tailor in Azad Market said, "We sometimes ask for the ID card when we are not sure if the person is a real cop. We can't sell police uniforms without verification. But they do it in Old Delhi and even in Kingsway Camp. But we don't. We sometimes ask for the ID when a woman comes in and says she wants to buy a uniform for her husband or some relative. Usually, either police officers or theatre students buy clothes from us, so we don't need to bother about the misuse of uniform."
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  From a traffic cop's whistle to the ID card holder, everything is available in these markets. When we asked the shopkeepers if their shops are authorised, all of them told us, "Hamari toh authorised dealership hai, par kaafi logon ki nahin hai." They added that they count on their years of experience when it comes to differentiating between a real and a fake cop.
 
  A garment shop owner in Kingsway Camp area told us, "We have never faced any issue with Delhi Police’s uniforms. Earlier, we used to stitch clothes for the UP Police as well, but after a few incidents of fake cops a few years back, we had to stop it. In Delhi, such cases are not so frequent."
 
 
  
 
 
