BENGALURU: Tuesday night’s   may have lasted a few hours but the havoc it wrought —  ,   and roads were flooded — crippled parts of the city on Wednesday too.

 Shukla R, 32, a techie and resident of Ejipura, had to miss work due to the 10-hour power cut in the locality. Her house was in a mess — not a drop of water was available and essential appliances were not functioning. What’s worse, she had a tough time calming down her six-month-old infant who was perspiring due to the unusual humidity that touched the 85% mark.
 
 “The relief was short-term but the destruction caused on Tuesday night left us massively inconvenienced. We didn’t have power all night and for most part of the day. There was no water in the tank; neither was the water purifier working. I had to rush to a nearby shop in the morning to fetch drinking water for my little one,” said a harried Shukla.
 
 Ditto with Nidhi, 20, a student from Koramangala, who couldn’t cook due to the frequent power cuts and had to starve till she got food from the college canteen. “Wednesday was no less than a nightmare. The Bescom helpline was busy most of the time,” said Nidhi.
 
 Most residents of southeast Bengaluru, mainly HSR Layout, Ejipura, Koramangala and surrounding areas, had to put up with endless power cuts. Bescom was flooded with complaints since Wednesday morning. Uday Kumar, Bescom chief engineer, told TOI: “This was the first downpour of the year, which resulted in cable faults throughout the city. However, southeast Bengaluru was the worst affected. Areas like Ejipura, Koramangala and HSR Layout saw 8-10 hour power cuts since last night. The rest of the city witnessed temporary faults, which have been rectified.”
 
 
 
 
 Not just power cuts, Wednesday morning saw traffic congestion due to tree falls and waterlogging. The heavy rain, 36.8mm in the heart of the city, uprooted 14 trees. Areas like AECS Layout, Whitefield, JP Nagar, Jayanagar, Girinagar, BTM Layout, Koramangala, Hosakerehalli, Srinagar, Gangondanahalli, Binny Mills, Mattikere and Rajarajeshwari Nagar were the worst affected, with the fallen trees and damaged electrical wires blocking streets.
 
 Commuters had a tough time negotiating traffic in localities like Devarajeevanahalli, Girinagar, Binny Mills, Rajmahal Guttahalli, RK Street, 12th Cross, Malleswaram and 4th Cross, Magadi Road.
 
 Argha G, who travels from Koramangala to Whitefield every day, reached office half an hour late. “Early morning rides are usually much quicker due to less traffic. However, due to Tuesday’s rain, there was considerable traffic on the road. Most of my other colleagues travelling from Rajmahal Guttahalli and Malleswaram were stranded for long,” he said.
 
 
 
