NEW DELHI: Black spots, or locations on roads where three or more fatal or alternately 10 or more non-fatal accidents take place every year, can be reengineered to save both lives and money, says a study carried out by the  . 

 This could be of significance in a city that has seen the number of accidents spiralling. In 2015, Delhi Police reported 8,085 accidents, of which 1,582 involved fatalities. The SPA study says that simple engineering counter-measures could avert thousands of such accidents. Carried out on 10 “black” spots, the research determined that an investment of Rs 51.97 crore could help prevent 19,800 accidents and result in economic gains of Rs 388 crore over 20 years.
 
 Prof PK Sarkar, under whose supervision the SPA study was conducted, said, “The findings provide a roadmap on how to re-engineer these black spots, prioritise them and help bring down accident rates drastically.” The black spots studied were originally identified by Delhi Police. “These include the heavily crowded Sarai Kale Khan, Kashmere Gate ISBT, Mahipalpur flyover, Shani Mandir, Nigam Bodh Ghat and areas like Punjabi Bagh Chowk,” said Sarkar. 
 
 Using stars, the study rated the 10 black spots in terms of severity and likelihood of accident for different categories of users — motor vehicles, two-wheelers, cyclists and pedestrians. Among factors surveyed were spot speed, classified traffic volume count and pedestrian peak hour volume count. Sarkar said that the star rating was achieved through a software developed by the International Road Assessment Programme, a non-profit organisation, and was based on inspection of infrastructure and elements that influenced the likelihood of accidents and severity of crashes on the locations. Lower the rating, the more dangerous that site was to that category of user.
 
 “After the rating, the model is calibrated, and an estimate of the existing number of deaths and serious injuries at any point on the network can be made,” explained Sarkar. This information can be used to examine the potential death and serious injury reduction that is possible through proven engineering counter measures at any location.
 
 After finding that 52% of the road stretch at the 10 sites returned 3-star rating for vehicles, 50% had 2-star rating for two-wheelers, 38% had a 1-star rating for pedestrians while 34% had 2-star rating for bicycles, the study concluded, according to Sarkar, “An investment of Rs 49.97 crore for road safety counter measures at these spots could save 1,981 fatal and 17,890 injurious accidents in 20 years.” 
 
 The study, carried out by Shawon Aziz, discussed remedial measures too. Of these, high-cost solutions included adding or widening lanes, grade-separated crossings for pedestrians or exclusive service and cycle lanes. Introduction of road safety barriers, pedestrian facilities, traffic calming measures or signalised intersections constituted medium-cost remedies, while low-cost steps involved delineation, use of retro-reflective markings, guideposts, warning signs, etc
 
