BENGALURU: The upcoming assembly polls in five states have resulted in rescheduling of CBSE, ICSE and ISC exams, which will now get over only by midor April-end. As a result, pre-university and degree colleges in the city too might have to rework their admission timetables.

 Sheena Rao, a class 12 student of a CBSE school, has set her mind on pursuing BBA from a reputed college in the city. However, with CBSE re sults likely to get delayed this time, she is confused. “As it is, CBSE is the last to announce results. This time I hope it doesn't get delayed any further. It will be crazy applying to multiple universities that late,“ she said.
 
 Christ University, which conducts its own entrance test, had to fix an additional date for the test, as the one it decided upon earlier is coinciding with class 12 board exams. “We had students calling from Delhi and other cities. Now we are conducting the entrance test on another date as well. Both dates will be notified soon,“ said Fr Abraham, pro-vice chancellor,  .
 
 PES University also conducts its own entrance test, PESAT, and this year it'll be between from May 2 and 20.Ajoy Kumar, CEO, PES University told TOI: “As per the   ruling, we are expected to commence classes by August. Although, we don't see anything affecting the admission process, students' preparation may suffer.“
 
 The scene is no different at Mount Carmel College. Geeta Mohan, welfare officer of the college said, “We may have to reschedule the admission process, but nothing is certain yet.We generally begin giving out application forms the day state PU results are out.“
 
 With a majority of students from PU background joining Maharani's College for various degree courses, the absence of reservation for students from CBSE and ISC backgrounds may put these youngsters in a fix, said an of ficial from the institution.This year, Jain University . will, for the first time, conduct t entrance exams for admis sions to commerce courses.
 
 Easwaran Iyer, dean, department of commerce said, “Ad mission procedure in our unir versity won't get affected as the university reserves certain percentage of seats for ISC and CBSE students.'' Suja Bennet, principal of  , said that although some seats are kept aside for CBSEISC students, the commencement of the programme may get slightly delayed because of the delay in board exams. “The admission process will be hit only if the results are delayed. CBSE results are always announced at the end.Hopefully , this time it won't be too late,“ she said.
 
 
 
 While students joining degree courses have to wait for colleges to put up their admission schedules, those writing class 10 exams too have reasons to worry.With class 10 CBSE and ICSE exams winding up only by April 10 and 21 respectively, PU colleges are expecting the department to extend the duration of the admission procedure.
 
 Manu Nattesh, principal, BMS PU College, is confident the PU timetable will be tweaked keeping in mind the dates of ICSE and CBSE results. “We have still not received any word from the department. But the last date of admission and fee payment are bound to change in keeping with the board exams.“
 
 Shikha C, director,  , told TOI: “We'll consider this matter while preparing our schedule for admissions to PU colleges.“
 
 
 
 
 Srijani C (name changed) was looking forward to visit her sister in Kolkata from April 7 to 17. In fact, her parents had already booked her tickets soon after the ICSE exam timetable was out. But the updated timetable (out on January 15) has affected Srijani's plans. Now her exams will only get over on April 21.
 
 “I am almost done with my pre-boards and have at least two months before my finals. These two months won't be of much use. After my boards, I will be caught up with admissions for class 11 and in all probability won't find time to visit Kolkata until May,“ said Srijani.
 
