Most people buy fitness trackers to keep a tab on their physical activity but I recently bought one to track my sleep. And the reason was not because I don’t sleep great but because I do everything that’s not healthy for a good night sleep (Such realizations come often when you are a health writer).

 On a regular day, I have my dinner by 7.30 pm but by bedtime I am again craving for food. And so I was getting into a habit of eating leftover food from my daughter's dinner plate. Not only this, I had started enjoying scrolling through my social media pages right before bedtime. Well, we all know that screen time is bad before bedtime so I knew I was going wrong. The first day I wore the tracker, I realised that my sleep quality and resting heart rate were extremely poor. Hence, I started my experiment. Here is what helped and what didn’t…
 
  
 
 
 
 I postponed my dinner to 8 pm and decided to hit the bed by 9.30 pm. Getting through these two hours without eating anything was indeed a big challenge. By the time I hit the bed, my stomach was rumbling and I kept tossing and turning in the bed for quite some time. That made me pick up the phone to check how much time I had wasted from my nap time. And from there, I started chatting with some friends on Whatsapp. In my defence, I was just replying to their messages. By the time I slept it was close to 10.30 pm.
  
  
  
 
 
 
 The moment I woke up, I checked my resting heart rate (RHR) and hours of sleep. RHR was 75 and the hours were 7.59. What caught my attention was the sleep quality – it showed quite a disturbing graph. There wasn’t much time to worry about it because I was ravenously hungry.
 
 So it was time to pick healthy post dinner options without disturbing my dinner time. I have followed a couple of diets in the past and I remembered how almost all nutritionists suggested having an apple or a warm glass of skimmed milk before bedtime. I finished my dinner by 7.30 pm and by 9.15 pm I was in bed with a glass of milk. Honestly, it helped. I wasn’t hungry anymore.
 
  
  
  
 I also resisted the temptation to check my phone at night. It was tough, oh yes, it was. I went to bed convinced that my fitness tracker will throw up such amazing results next morning.
 
 
 
 I woke up at around 6.30 am and checked the tracker – resting heart rate was 74. While I clocked in 8 hours and 30 minutes of sleep, sleep quality was still bad. That’s when I decided to invest in comfy bedding. My husband was quite amused to see my fixation on selecting the coziest blanket. But it had to be done.
 
  
  
 
 At night, after feasting on my bedtime apple, I was back on Whatsapp with a friend who’d had a bad day at work. By 10.15 pm, I finally had to tell her that I’d have to call her the next day. I was feeling terrible for being on the phone but there was little I could do.
 
 
  
 I woke up at 6.30 am and was disgruntled to see higher resting heart rate and terrible sleep quality. That’s when I decided that the bed had to be made a no-gadget zone. Desperate times needed desperate measures. My 6-year-old was pretty annoyed about it. She actually felt that mommy’s gone rogue!
 
 I stopped touching the phone after my dinner. I wrote good night to all my friends. I did have a series of amusing replies to my 8pm bedtime message.
 
 
 I woke up by 6.30 am and I was happy to see that my resting heart rate was 71 and I had recorded a decent sleep graph. It was around 1am that my graph was on ‘almost awake’. That was because my daughter loves to rotate in her sleep and her legs are sometimes right on my head. I don't move her for the risk of interrupting her sleep but it does interrupt my sleep every night.
 
 I planned to sleep in the guest room to see if that would help. At night, I was stoked that for the first time in years I could freely move my limbs. I did miss her bedtime banter but I was ready to try this option.
 
 And did I tell you I also bought some new nightwear – comfy cotton tees and pyjama. I decided to let go of my tights for bedtime.
 
 
 I woke up around 6.26 am and rushed to see my little one. Spending a night without her ain’t easy. Resting heart rate was 76 (never been so high in the past six days) and sleep graph was better. Didn’t know if I was supposed to be happy or sad. For the uninitiated, a lower heart rate in the morning means better heart function and efficient cardio fitness.
 
 Lesson learnt: I need my little one by my side.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 I clocked 8 hours 34 minutes and my sleep quality was better. Less tremors in the graph actually made me feel really happy. Even my resting heart rate was down to 74.
 
 So what did I learn from my experiment:
 Do not eat a heavy meal close to bedtime
 Do not check your phone before bedtime
 Wear comfortable night clothes, preferably loose fitted ones
 Invest in cozy blankets and make sure that the room temperature is good (not too cold or hot)
 
 
