On Monday, all roads led to Karan Johar's 'Singles Night' ' a special Valentine's Day celebration for his filmi friends at his Bandra pad. The host's dates were mum, Hiroo, and dog, Nobu Johar, the latter wagging its tail over all the 'oohs' and 'aahs' at the bash, as he posed with Malaika Arora Khan and Sophie Choudhary.

 The bash kicked off around 10pm and went on till the sun rose with Konkana Sen Sharma,   and the other single ladies still clinking glasses. The guests finally tottered home, flaunting their gift hampers, complete with champagne and cookies.
 
 Jokes about actors who aren't really single were a common refrain through the night but Sushant Singh Rajput made his relationship status clear by sporting a tee which announced, 'Comfortably Single'. 'The question thrown around, to leading ladies like   and Sonakshi Sinha, was ' 'Are you a real single or a dodgy single?' with fingers being pointed at KJo as a potential match-maker. It was a funfilled night,' reveals a guest, recalling an actress screaming to the host, 'Where are all the good-looking men?'
 
 Dressed down in an unassuming grey racer back and avoiding the paparazzi as usual,   seemed at ease around close friends Arjun Kapoor and Aditya Roy Kapur. Fresh off a red carpet event, Malaika Arora dashed in to change and emerged in a white shirt and a pair of skimpy shorts. Kat and Malaika, who have never been spotted in public together, seemed to bond behind closed doors.
 
 Always bringing laughter to a party,   urged KJo to do shots with her. The duo was in splits as they recalled the madness on their Koffee with Karan episode with Sidharth Malhotra.
 
 Harshvardhan Kapoor stayed close to main squeeze Rhea Chakraborty but left early, hitting the gym immediately after returning home. Guess he was trying to shrug off both the calories and the gossip. Pals   and Tabu arrived together and hung out with Nandita Mahtani who shook a leg with on-and-off beau, Dino Morea.
 
 Aditi Rao Hyadari was escorted by scriptwriter-host Niranjan Iyengar. Producer-friend Tanuj Garg,   and Abhay Deol were also there. Ayan Mukerji who, with his newly acquired locks, bore a striking resemblance to BAFTA winner and Oscar nominee Dev Patel.
 
 Ekta Kapoor, who was apparently livid with her Pavitra Rishta hero, Sushant, for having walked out of the show in 2011 to pursue a Bollywood career, has buried the hatchet and gave her hero a jadoo ki jhappi. They were joined by another TV actor Karan Tacker who is expected to debut in a Dharma production soon.
 
 Also, prepping for a Bollywood launch is Saif Ali Khan's daughter, Sara, who looked radiant minus the powder and paints. Conspicuous by their absence were his old students. Not just Sid, even,   and Varun Dhawan didn't turn up, perhaps because the trio are no longer officially single.
