BHOPAL: Loudspeakers fell silent as campaigning ended for the   and   on Friday evening. Both camps are 

 Out of the two seats, Congress has invested its entire might, strategy and power in Ater — banking heavily on the sympathy factor after the death of Satyadev Katare, who represented the assembly segment thrice as MLA, minister and Leader of Opposition. The Congress’ candidate is Satyadev’s son Hemant and stalwarts like Jyotiradirtya Scindia and Kamal Nath have thrown their weight behind him.
 
 The BJP is also desperate to win Ater to add to its tally of 165 legislators in a House of 230. Since 1990, Ater has alternatively elected BJP and Congress, never repeating a party candidate.
 
 Satyadev Katare represented the seat in 1993, 2003 and 2013. BJP’s Munna Singh Bhadoriya was elected from Ater in 1990 and 1998. BJP’s Arvind Bhadoriya won the seat in 2008 defeating Katare by a slim margin of 1,851 votes, but lost to him five years later. Now, he is pitted against Hemant. The question now is, will Ater flow with the sympathy wave for Hemant or stick to its tradition of swinging between Congress and BJP?
 
 The fight in Ater has always been caste-based — between Brahmins and Thakurs. Each community has a strong vote bank with approximately the same number of votes. For two-and-a-half decades, BJP has fielded Thakurs while Congress’ candidates have been Brahmins. Even this bypoll, it is the same story. However, the fight now is for the 28,000 OBC votes and 20,000 Dalit votes.
 
 While chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, an OBC, camped in Ater for four days, BJP’s MP from Bhind, Dr Bhagirath Prasad, has been campaigning to garner Dalit votes, which BSP had wrested in 2013. This BSP is not in the fray.
 
 Congress knows well that if it is to retain its seat, then faction-riddled party has to forget its differences. From leader of opposition Ajay Singh to senior MLA from Lahar Dr Govind Singh, the ‘Thakurs’ of Congress, have come together to grab some of that community vote-bank. Scindia skipped a few days of the budget session and campaigned for Hemant. He also stayed, cooked and shared a meal in a Dalit village. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan did the same, sharing a dinner with members of the Dalit community in Nargingarh village.
 
 Bandhavgarh, is a different story. In November last year, BJP fielded minister for SC/ST welfare Gyan Singh for Shahdol Lok Sabha bypolls, mandating Sunday’s bypoll. BJP has fielded his son Shivnarayan Singh while the Congress candidate is district panchayat member Savitri Singh.   is a new seat which came into existence after delimitation in 2008.
 
 Gyan Singh won both elections and BJP is depending on his image and popularity for his son's victory. In 2008, the senior BJP tribal leader had defeated Savitri Singh by a margin of 15,303 votes. In 2013, he defeated Congress’ Pyarelal Baiga by 18,645 votes. Here, BJP has been twice lucky as Gondwana Gantantra Party (GGP) cut into Congress votes. This bypoll, Congress can only pray the same does not happen with GGP candidate Lakhan Singh Badhar.
 
 
