SHIMLA: The romance of the snow may be a major draw for tourists, but ask locals and they will tell you the flipside of the  . Locals swear how there is a huge difference between playing in the snow for a day or two and living with the snow for days together. 

  The recent spell of snow in the western   lured thousands of tourists to popular tourist spots of Shimla, Manali and Dalhousie. But things were not as rosy as they seem for locals, who were forced to go without water and electricity in freezing temperature. In fact, even tourists who rushed to hill stations in droves after the January 6 snowfall visualised a blanket of pristine white, but what they got was a slippery mess and a bone-chilling cold they had probably never experienced. 
 
 While five migrant labourers from Bihar died of asphyxiation as they kept a coal heater inside the room and fell asleep, two students of the National Institute of Technology (NIT) at Hamirpur in   found themselves stranded in heavy snowfall at Shikari Devi temple, located at an altitude of 12,000 feet in Mandi district. A 28-member rescue team had to walk 36 km amid 5 to 10 feet deep snow only to find them dead. 
 
 More than 400 tourists from the plains were trapped between Manali and Solang, close to   as the snow covered roads didn't allow vehicles to move. 
 
  The locals came to their rescue and provided them with shelter, food and heating arrangements. Manoj Dua, a tourist from Delhi, who was trapped in Solang area of Kullu district with his family, said: "We found ourselves stranded after the sudden increase in snowfall, which left the road too slippery to allow vehicle movement in the area." 
 
  In the heavy snowfall, taxi drivers charged Rs 15,000 from tourists to take them to Manali from Patlikuhl, a new tourist destination just 16-odd kilometres from Manali. On normal days, the fare is not more than Rs 700. 
 
  In Shimla district, around 230 tourists stranded between Faggu and   on January 9 were rescued by Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) personnel. As if getting stuck was not enough, tourists also found themselves devoid of water and electricity. Hotel and Restaurant Owners Association (North India) president Sanjay Sood said, "Shimla and neighbouring areas faced a weeklong blackout. Phone batteries gave out and houses turned into cold prisons without heating arrangements." 
 
 At least tourists who find their dream of playing in the snow soured have the option of leaving. But area residents can only wait for the sun to shine.
 
 Suman Thakur, a resident of Jakhu, said they have been melting snow for around a week as frozen water pipes have stopped water supply. "Each winter, the snow causes problems. But we have to live with it," she said.
 
 
