Nagpur: Even as four-laning of national highway (NH) 7 in the 51km stretch between Wadner and Pimpalkhuti in Yavatmal district is in full swing, the wildlife wing officials and National Highways Authority of India ( ) are quiet about wildlife mitigation measures to be taken near   Wildlife Sanctuary, 180km from here near Pandharkawda. 

 The   widening cuts crucial wildlife and   between Tipeshwar and Painganga (Yavatmal) & Tadoba-Andhari (Chandrapur) and Kawal tiger reserves in Telangana. There have been authentic reports about tiger dispersal to adjoining territorial forest areas, Kawal and Painganga from Tipeshwar.
 
 As per the Supreme Court orders, any project falling within 10km of national parks and sanctuaries should get clearance of Standing Committee of National Board for Wildlife (NBWL).
 
 “Hence, the road work near Tipeshwar sanctuary (148.63sqkm) is in complete violation of apex court guidelines,” said Yavatmal honorary wildlife warden Ramzan Virani.
 
 Earlier, on August 7, 2013, the issue was strongly raised with NHAI by then divisional forest officer (DFO) of Pandharkawda AP Girhepunje. He had asked whether NHAI had clearance from NBWL for four-laning in patches near Tipeshwar.
 
 Virani said four-laning without taking wildlife mitigation measures, especially in the 3km vulnerable patch between Tembhi near Sunna and Kopamandwi ahead of Tipeshwar, will spell doom for tigers. There are 8-10 tigers in the sanctuary which move around either side of the highway.
 
 “There are confirmed reports that these forest patches are used by the wild animals from the sanctuary,” says Virani.
 
 With the Nagpur Bench of Bombay High Court’s intervention tigers could benefit on NH7 along Pench tiger reserve, where one 750 metres, two 300 metres and ten 50 metres structures are being constructed for wildlife. However, wildlife NGOs, Pench officials and NHAI are silent on mitigation measures and they have not learnt lessons from the NH7 debacle. The matter is still being heard in the Nagpur high court. 
 
 Pench field director & CCF Rishikesh Ranjan pleaded ignorance in the matter. “I will check official correspondence done in the past in the matter. We have not insisted on wildlife mitigation measures as of now.”
 
 NHAI project director SV Patil said the work is as per the old proposal initiated in 2005. As the contractor had left midway, the stalled work has been started afresh.
 
 “We have been granted environment clearance but have no additional plans for wildlife mitigation measures although 6,000 saplings will be planted along the roadside,” said Patil.
 
 Patil added though there are no wildlife underpasses, there will be one existing underpass near Sunna. However, this underpass will be on existing nullah.
 
 The vulnerable spots where four-laning is being done also falls in the notified eco-sensitive zone (ESZ). Tipeshwar provides a habitat for more than 30 species of mammal including Schedule-I species such as sloth bear, four-horned antelope and many other fauna including chital, nilgai, black buck, panther, civet, hyena, jackal, wolf, and porcupine.
 
 Considering its ecological importance, the MoEFCC declared an area of 404.57 sqkm to an extent varying from 150 metres to 11km around the boundary Tipeshwar as ESZ. The extent of 150 metre is for a very small stretch in the south-west side of the sanctuary and not for the portion where widening is being done.
 
 
