GOA: “This constituency has always been neglected by successive governments, since Liberation. There has been zero development. Eighty per cent of the constituency suffers from water scarcity owing to inadequate infrastructure. There are no proper healthcare facilities in the villages. Unemployment level is on the rise in this area. People are suffering from serious ailments owing to the lack of medical care facilities. I have a vision for development of this constituency,”   had told TOI while he was campaigning for the 2012 state assembly elections from the Sanvordem constituency.

 Gaonkar made it to the assembly in the 2012 polls, but apparently forgot all about the vision that he had held aloft for his constituency after his victory. At least, that’s what political observers from this part of the state’s mining belt feel. The problems faced by the people in this industrially backward constituency — unemployment, inadequate healthcare facilities, erratic power supply and water scarcity — are likely to come to haunt Gaonkar in this election.
 
 This has put Gaonkar on a sticky wicket this time. To make matters worse for him is the challenge posed by Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party’s (MGP) Deepak Pauskar, who is contesting as a candidate of the MGP-GSM-SS alliance.
 
 Sanvordem has traditionally been a bastion of the MGP. Since the formation of the constituency in 1989, it was represented by the MGP in the state legislative assembly for the first ten years, until   of the   (BJP), now the party’s state president, won the seat. 
 
 He defeated Gaonkar, who had then contested as the Congress candidate. Tendulkar retained the seat for the BJP for two successive terms, but was defeated in 2007 by mining magnate  , who had contested as an independent. The BJP wrested the seat in 2012 elections.
 
 Political observers are of the view that an anti-incumbency sentiment runs deep in most parts of the constituency — the prime reason: the BJP was having two thoughts over nominating Gaonkar as the party’s candidate.
 
 “Gaonkar finally bagged the party ticket, certainly not on his merit, but as a result of caste arithmetic — to balance the skewed caste equation following denial of ticket to  , a tribal leader who went on to become the tribal welfare minister in the BJP government. But in doing so the party has taken a huge gamble and nobody knows if it will pay off,” a political observer said. 
 
 Gaonkar is involved in the mining and ore transportation business, and knows first-hand the problems faced by the people from this mining belt. Sources said that the resentment among mining dependants following the mining ban may work to the detriment of Gaonkar’s prospects.
 
 Besides, political observers inform, a sizeable section of Gaonkar’s earlier supporters, upset over his “style of functioning”, have moved over to the enemy camp to campaign in favour of Pauskar.
 
 “The MGP stands a good chance of making a comeback by tapping into its traditional vote base and the anti-incumbency sentiment,” a political observer said.
 
 What lends Pauskar an edge is the fact that he had started off on his campaign quite early. He was inducted into the MGP fold nearly two years ago, thereby indicating the regional outfit’s intent of rebuilding its base in this constituency where the “lion” once ruled the roost.
 
 Besides, the fact that Pauskar had also contested as an independent in the last elections has made him familiar with the intricacies of elections, and has enabled him to make considerable inroads into the constituency. 
 
 Ironically, in the citadel of the BJP and the MGP, this is the first time both the right wing parties are pitted against each other.
 
 The Congress party, however, failed to build its organization in this constituency for the last five years. It's candidate Shankar Kirlaparkar is unlikely to make much headway as his delayed nomination has left him with very little time for campaigning, sources say.
 
 The ST (scheduled tribes) factor is likely to play a decisive role in determining the outcome of the polls. Gaonkar belongs to this tribe and it is now to be seen whether he proves successful in keeping the 7,000-odd votes of his community with him.
 
 Will Sanvordem vote for a change? It is not that easy to read the voters’ mind, poll watchers say.
 
 
