CHENNAI: With transport department officials refusing to either register or renew permits of commercial transport vehicles having not more than eight seats, if they do not have  , automotive industries association has moved the Madras high court assailing the decision.

 A vacation bench comprising Justice MM Sundresh and Justice  , before whom the PIL filed by Motor Vehicles and Allied Industries Association came up for hearing, directed the Union ministry of road transports and highways, and the state home secretary (transport) and the transport commissioner to file their replies in two weeks.
 
 The matter relates to a notification issued on April 15, 2015 by the Union ministry of road transport and highways, under Central Motor Vehicle Rules 1989 exempting the vehicles used for ferrying passengers and their luggage from fixing speed governors. To avail themselves of the facility, the vehicles shall have a seating capacity of not exceeding eight passengers in addition to driver’s seat, and shall not exceed 3,500kg of weight. However, the exemption was withdrawn by the next notification dated May 1, 2017, which has now been challenged by the Motor Vehicles and Allied Industries Association.
 
 Narrating the difficulties faced by vehicle owners, the PIL said authorities were now insisting on fixing of speed governors in transport vehicles, and were refusing to register vehicles, issue or renew permits and offer renewal of fitness certificate without speed governors. Whereas the same kind of vehicles for private use are bring registered by authorities even though they too have no speed governors, it said.
 
 Calling the notification discriminatory, he said it specified two different requirements for commercial transport vehicles and similar vehicles used by private owners. While private owners of such vehicles can ply them across the country, exemption given to transport vehicles alone had been withdrawn, he said. 
 
 Law can make such classifications according to the needs and exigencies of the society, he said, adding such a classification, however, should never be arbitrary, artificial or evasive.
 
 The petitioner-association prayed for a direction to declare the May 1, 2017 in withdrawing the exemption granted for transport vehicles from fixing the speed governors as illegal, invalid, ultra vires the Constitution.
 
