NEW DELHI: New Delhi Municipal Council ( ), in collaboration with Israel’s  , has installed in the heart of Delhi a machine that makes water from ordinary air.

 The Israeli’s company’s technology, which extracts moisture from air, has people queuing up in Connaught Place to taste its free water. The technology is new to India but exists in European and other Western countries.
 
 Senior NDMC officials claimed the machine’s capacity is 500 litres of water per day. In the dry season — May, June, etc. — production falls to 350 litres per day. “The concept is one of a kind. Extraction from air to produce fresh drinking water is a big step. The machine traps the moisture in the air and passes it through different filters to clear out impurities. Then, the water vapour is condensed using a coolant. After the water vapour is condensed, minerals are added to produce water,” said a senior NDMC official.
 
 NDMC, which had installed regular water ATMs across its jurisdiction, is planning to expand the air-to-water concept. “We will review the progress of this machine and, depending on the response and after analysing the cost-effectiveness, we will expand it to other areas,” said a senior NDMC official, adding the machine was developed keeping Delhi’s air quality in mind. 
 
 Water-Gen, which was started by a former   Army combat reconnaissance company commander named Arye Kohavi, has joint ventures with India, the US, and European, African and Asian countries to set up preventive measures against contaminated water sources. The company, which employs some 30 people, mainly engineers, was acquired by Russian-Israeli billionaire  , the Times of Israel reported.
 
 MP Meenakshi Lekhi pointed out that when PM   had visited Israel, a presentation was made about implementing the drinking water concept in India’s metropolises.
 
 The machine can produce four litres of drinking water using 1 kilowatt of energy, according to the Times of Israel. The price of water depends on electricity consumption, it said, adding that other atmospheric water-generating devices consume three to four times more energy.
 
 The machine comes in three sizes — large, medium and small. The small units can produce 15 litres of drinking water, but in India, because of high humidity, the same unit can produce up to 30 litres of water, the Times of Israel said. The larger unit can produce 3,000 litres of drinking water while a medium-sized machine can produce up to 450-500 litres of drinking water.
 
 
