CHENNAI: Parts of   received light to moderate rain over the last 24 hours but the city is yet to receive showers despite some cloud cover. Weathermen had predicted that Chennai too may receive rainfall after January 20. However, it looks like the city will have to wait in anticipation for the next spell which is expected around January 27. 

 The Met department said that light to moderate rain and thundershowers were seen in parts of coastal TN and Puducherry. Isolated heavy rainfall is also expected in Nagapattinam, Tiruvarur and Ramanathapuram districts of Tamil Nadu over the next 24 hours. 
 
 Weathermen said that the trough persisting over the southwest Bay of Bengal along with the easterly wave led to some good showers in parts of Tamil Nadu. Skymet   sources reported that rainfall was received in Cuddalore, Nagapattinam, Kodaikanal, Coonoor and Madurai since Friday morning under the influence of the trough.
 
 The Met department said that the trough is now extending up to 2.1 km with upper air cyclonic circulation over southwest Bay of Bengal adjoining the equatorial Indian Ocean due to which more showers may occur in southern parts of the state.
 
 While parts of north Tamil Nadu were expected to witness some showers, they seem to have missed this spell. The northern part of the state may remain dry although with cloudy skies, say weathermen. However, the cloud cover could mean a slight increase in temperature. The temperature on Saturday ranged from a minimum of 26.4 degrees Celsius to a maximum of 29.9 degrees Celsius.
 
 Skymet weather has predicted that the weather, which may remain humid due to the cloud cover, will again become dry following which another spell of rain may be received. Skymet weather chief meteorologist   predicted that a third spell could occur around January 27-28 in many parts of the state including Chennai. 
 
 Climatological data between 1971 and 2000 shows that Chennai receives a total of nearly a day and a half of rainfall on average during January.
 
 
