KERI: Every year, April 7 is celebrated as World Health Day and this year, the focus is the ‘fight against depression’. Besides being responsible for killing millions of people globally, 15 to 20% of the world’s population is reported to be suffering from  . The World Health Organization, in its 1948 constitution, had defined ‘health’ as “physical, mental and social well-being and not merely absence of disease”, and experts in the field of mental health say many Indians, including children, live a stressful (unhealthy) life, which increases the risk of depression. 

 Speaking to TOI, Rupesh  , a psychiatrist who works with Vivekanand Prerana Pratishthan, an NGO from Keri-Sattari, says, “When we lose something in life, we normally get depression. It is an emotional reaction to loss. However, in some people, depression does not remain as only an emotional reaction, but assumes a form of disease. Most people are unaware that depression is a disease and can be treated.” The NGO has been working to create a favourable atmosphere for joyful learning in schools in Goa and border areas of Maharashtra and Karnataka for the last two years. 
 
 “Depression can be prevented by regular followups of stress management techniques. Through meditation and breathing techniques, we can minimize the chances of suffering from emotional illness. Emotional problems are not restricted to emotional pain, they affect physical health. In case of all metabolic diseases such as diabetes, hypertension, heart disease, an emotional problem is the main factor. The link between psychological disturbance and physical health is proven beyond doubt,” Patkar said. 
 
 Sneha Gawas, who work as a counsellor in schools of   and  , said, “Today, depression cases among school children are continuously on the rise. We try our best to boost their morale through counselling and encouraging positive attitudes. Despite these efforts, if depression is unresolved, then we need to consult a psychiatrist for appropriate medication”. 
 
