KOLKATA: The state received a shot in the arm on Thursday as   sanctioned a Rs 1,396 crore rural  .

 State panchayat and rural development minister Subrata Mukherjee told TOI, “We had asked for the loan six months ago. This will be used to implement arsenic-free drinking water projects in villages.”
 
 World Bank officials said the loan was sanctioned to strengthen local communities’ participation in the planning, budgeting, and financial management of projects undertaken in rural areas. Following the recommendations of the 14th Central Finance Commission and the 4th State Finance Commission, funds flowing to gram panchayats (GP) and local bodies will be more than double by 2020, the officials said.
 
 West Bengal Support to Institutional Strengthening of Gram Panchayat Program (ISGPP)-phase II, will support all 3,342 gram panchayats in the state to effectively utilize these discretionary funds that are being provided to them under the inter-governmental fiscal transfer system. Out of the 92,000 activities carried out by these local bodies using central government grants, 54 per cent was on transport, 23 per cent on water and sanitation, and 20 per cent on public buildings.
 
 “Bringing states closer to citizens has been an important component of Indian democracy. Effective and accountable   institutions empowered with additional resources can help achieve that.” said Junaid Ahmad, World Bank country director for India. 
 
 The ISGPP-phase II will accelerate the pace of decentralization to all GPs across West Bengal through a state-wide unified performance-based grant (PBG) allocation system. In order to access the PBG, GPs will be assessed on an annual basis through an independent annual performance assessment (APA). The APA will be conducted for all 3,342 GPs in key performance areas include planning and budgeting, project execution and service delivery, accounting, financial reporting and audit, and participation, transparency and accountability. The program will also focus on building human resource capacity for increased transparency and accountability in local government functioning and mentoring weaker GP officials to create a level playing field. An internal audit system will be developed and implemented in all GPs.
 
 
