Noida: A massive fire, which originated in an ATM of  , gutted the kiosk as well as the ground floor of nearby McDonald’s outlet in Sector 18 market on Wednesday night. The fire occurred when the restaurant staff were winding up their work around 12.15am.

 According to Ram Chandra Mishra, the security guard at the ATM, he heard some noise in the back-up room of the kiosk around midnight. “As soon as I opened the back-up room, there was an explosion,” he said. The 62-year-old security guard tried to use a fire extinguisher, but failed. Soon, the fire spread to the McDonald’s outlet.
 
 “The kiosk was filled with smoke within minutes. Initially I was confused as to how to bring the fire under control. The flames were so strong that it quickly spread. I then alerted police, restaurant and bank officials,” said Mishra.
 
 In the morning, the officials had come to refill the ATM, said Mishra. “I don’t know how much they put it. Some people had also withdrawn money during the day. Fortunately, no one was around when the fire broke out,” Mishra added. There were nearly six employees in the McDonald’s outlet when the incident took place. They immediately escaped through the back door.
 
 Kuldeep Singh, fire safety officer, Noida, said three fire tenders reached the spot and doused the blaze within an hour. “It took us an hour to control the fire. The fire had spread in the   and also to the ground floor of McDonald’s outlet when we reached there,” he said. The basement, first floor and second floor of outlet remained safe, he added. The ATM kiosk, however, was gutted.
 
 Anil Kumar Shahi, station house officer, Sector 20 police station, said they are scanning CCTV footages to ascertain the exact cause of the fire. The police said they have contacted the bank officials to share details and status of the ATM machine.
 
 The staff of McDonald’s were also amazed to see their outlet gutted. A staff member, Rakesh, who came for the morning shift at 8.30am, was shocked to see the building. “We don’t know how the incident took place. The outlet is now closed till it is repaired,” he said.
 
 
