KOCHI: Even while more than half of the trucks owned by   are at the workshop or remain “abandoned'' due to minor mechanical problems, the civic body is in the run for identifying contractors for supplying trucks to transport garbage from different parts of the city to solid waste treatment plant at Brahmapuram.

 According to the corporation authorities, it is better to spend Rs 4.28 crore a year on garbage transportation than operating its own trucks for the purpose! Though the corporation does not have the exact number of trucks, mini-trucks and covered compact refuse vehicles with them, some of the opposition councillors put the number at 77. While opposition councillor V P Chandran presented the details in the council, none of the authorities including mayor, deputy mayor, standing committee chairpersons, secretary and additional secretary who were present at the council hall challenged it.But, they silently approved the statistics.
 
 “The corporation owns 10 compact refuse trucks. Of these, only four are plying now.There are 23 trucks owned by the civic body , but only 11 or 12 are conducting services. Of the total 44 mini-trucks, only 14 are in use. The remaining vehicles lay abandoned on roadside due to minor mechanical problems,“ said Chandran, opposition councillor. “Going by the corporation records, the total amount being spent on   comes to around Rs 4.28 crore a year,“ he said.
 
 Deputy mayor   said that the local body should stop the practice of  . “We should use our own trucks for the purpose. We should buy 10 more trucks immediately . Adding them to the existing fleet of trucks, we should transport garbage on our own,“ Vinod said. As of now, the procedures for getting vehicles with mechanical defects repaired consume much time.It may require up to two months for issuing work order to workshop owner to repair a vehicle even though the mechanical error is a slight one.“It was as a solution to the issue that we decided to give some amount as advance to one of the assistant engineers. The plan was that he should get the vehicles repaired immediately if the repair work is a minor one. He can pay the bill from the advance amount given to him,“ Vinod said. But, the system doesn't function now, he said.
 
 At the same time,  , chairperson, standing committee for health under which treatment of garbage comes, said that hiring trucks would be more profitable for the corporation. “Now, we are giving Rs 2,647 for hiring a truck for a day . This includes the wages of driver, cleaner, fuel charges and other incidental charges. If we operate our own trucks, we will have to bear all these expenses. Moreover, the trucks may go for repair every now and then,“ Minimol said.
 
