NAGPUR: In a bid to prepare future crop of footballers and to develop players,   shortlisted six talented youngsters from the city for their   scheduled to be held at Pune in June. The two-day selection trials to spot young talent for country’s first International Club residential academy of the  , Pune, got underway at the   ground here on Wednesday.

 The first trial session, attended by a total of 120 kids from various city schools and a handful of players from Gondia, began at 6.30 am with Deggie Cardozo, ‘A’ license coach and other technical staff including coaches  ,   and team manager   minutely observing everyone, who turned up to showcase their skills. The trials that will conclude at the Military ground in Kamptee on Thursday will witness more youngsters.
 
 The observers gave thrust to finer aspects of football like passing, receiving, trapping, juggling, controlling and space making. However, the most important aspect on which they put their emphasis was how the players read the game during a match. “We noted the ball sense of a player along with the basic skills. If the boy has that thing in him then it’s our job to develop his overall game,” Deggie Cardozo told TOI.
 
 About 150 odd players from across the country will make it to the All India camp from where about 30 youngsters each in the U-16 and U-18 category will be picked for the their residential academy.
 
  
  
 
 
 Of the six city players that were selected for the All India camp, five will take part in the U-18 trials while Prajwal Deneti, a right-back, will get a chance to attend the U-16 camp in Pune. The shortlisted five U-18 players include striker Aahid Sheikh, right winger Bhupendra Mahanar, left wingers Sagar Yadav and Swapnil Neware, and center back Yash Shukla.
 
 Having cleared the first hurdle, these six players will now appear for their All India trials in the first week of June from where they can hope to make the cut for the India’s first International Club residential academy in Loni on the Pune-Solapur Highway.
 
 Throwing more light on the academy Deggie said, “In 2013, DSK Shivajians FC and Liverpool FC entered into a ground-breaking partnership to establish this residential academy with an objective to provide budding football stars across India with the best environment and world-class facilities to hone and develop their skills, under the watchful eyes of qualified coaches from Liverpool FC.”
 
 He further added, “The objective of our academy is to develop good footballers for the country. And this is the first time we decided to move out of Pune and search for the talent across Maharashtra. From here we are planning to conduct similar camps in Kolhapur and Solapur. At the academy we will also look after the kids’ education and we do have a tie-up with some schools in Pune.”
 
 Deggie signed off with a hope to get more such youngsters in Kamptee.
 
 
