MUMBAI: Crime in the city is down, for the first time in three years. Overall crime registered in 2016 - 39,350 cases - dipped 7.7% against the 42,615 cases in 2015, the latest police report said. In 2014, Mumbai registered 39,960 cases.

 Most major crimes showed a downward trend last year (see box), and one of the biggest drops - 51% - was in chain- snatching incidents to 443 in 2016, from 909 in 2015, and 1,409 in 2014. Significantly, the report added that 62% cases (24,535 out of 39,350) were solved in 2016.
 
 One of the negatives in the report was the fact that crimes against women, particularly outraging modesty and sexual harassment, had risen. “Though police presence on the roads has helped in reducing serious crimes, more patrolling has to be done in the internal parts of the city , especially slum pockets and crowded places where women are vulnerable,“ said a senior IPS officer.
 
 The police and other security experts attributed the drop in crime to installation of closed circuit television (CCTV) cameras, modernization of the force, introduction of technology and a return to good beat practices of patrolling and nakabandi. Though the CCTV cameras project had got delayed, the network that has been functional since last year has worked as an effective deterrent and helped immensely with detection, said the experts.
 
 Mumbai police spokesperson and DCP   said massive police patrolling at secluded spots and important junctions, added to CCTVs and digital policing, has helped. “Apart from technology , we also succeeded in sending criminals and history sheeters into jail for longer periods after booking them under stringent laws. With the major chain-snatching gangs behind bars, the cases are coming down. Advanced CCTVs have started showing results as most of the city is covered and the police control has been reacting immediately on witnessing any incident in any part of the city ,“ he added.
 
 RTI activist   agreed with Dudhe, but warned that burking -when cops refuse to register cases to keep records clean -continues. IPS officer-turnedlawyer Y P Singh said modernization of the force and widespread CCTVs could be the main reasons for the dip in crimes. “Use of technology such as CCTVs, GPS mobile phone tracking can be of great help in reducing both body and property crimes. This, coupled with performance-based appraisal of officers, can sustain this tempo of reduction in crime rate,“ said Singh.
 
 
 
 
 A dip in overall crime in a megapolis is a positive development, and the police need to carry on the good work to ensure it was not a one-off. Since technology and training played a big role, the government must move to make available the funds necessary for further modernization of the force. Policemen, on their part, should make more efforts on the ground to make Mumbai safer, especially for women.
 
