Madurai : Not known to many, it was a petition seeking permission for holding   race in connection with a temple festival in Ramanathapuram in 2009 which attracted a ban on  . This is something the petitioner, K Muniasamy Thevar, and advocate L Shaji Chellan regret to this day.

 Advocate L Shaji Chellan says he viewed the petition filed by K Muniasamy Thevar, vice-president of the Karisalkulam panchayat in Ramanathapuram, seeking permission to conduct rekla race in his village, as a harmless one. He had expected the court to give an instant nod as the three-page petition came up for hearing before Justice R Bhanumathy at the Madurai bench of the Madras high court. However, she refused to grant permission on grounds of cruelty to animals as clearly spelt out, on March 29, 2006.
 
 The order, which stretched to nearly 15 pages, also brought jallikattu bulls within its ambit, mentioning that they were also tortured like those in the rekhla race. ``It shocked Muniasamy, who regretted even filing the petition. The judge seemed to have had a preconceived notion as she heard the petition,’’ said Chellan.
 
 “Actually the court and the police are the reason why traditional games like jallikattu are facing extinction, because the judges have no idea of these games held in villages. The police just want the organisers of these games to seek the court’s permission every time because they want to shirk their responsibility,” he said. 
 
 He said that the future of jallikattu depended entirely on the stand taken by the apex court. Judge Bhanumathy who was the very reason for the ban continued to be on the bench hearing the jallikattu case in the apex court, he said. Now, the ordinance was to be passed classifying jallikattu as a sport. If it was specified as animal welfare, then again the court could strike down the permission.
 
 The advocate said that Tamil Nadu argued the case weakly, as PETA had 18 senior advocates appearing for it. Stress should be laid on the fact that jallikattu was the only bull-related game in which the bull is handled with bare hands and embraced, he added.
 
 
