CHENNAI: Indian startups may need to brace up for a fund squeeze with VC and angel investments touching new lows in February. According to data from Venture Intelligence, VC investments touched a 5 month low while angel investments hit a 14 month low in February.

 With 32 VC investments worth $241 million, activity levels in February 2016 were 20% lower than February 2015 and 36% lower than the average activity witnessed in the Oct-Dec quarter. Data from the research firm shows that except for a slight uptick in series B funding, all other categories saw a dip or remained flat.
 
 “This could be a seasonal trend. Many are hoping that VC deals might pick in the later half of the year. Question mark on some of the largest consumer internet companies is bound to have an impact on the overall ecosystem,” said Arun Natarajan, founder, Venture Intelligence.
 
 As the fund tap seems to dry up, the going gets tougher especially for startups in sectors like hyper local which has seen a host of shutdowns. “Investment cycles seem to be dependant on what the ‘flavour of the season’ is, leading to lesser confidence for startups in other spaces. We are looked at from the lens of bigger counterparts which have failed, inviting cynicism and resulting in lower opportunities even if there is merit in thebusiness,” said Rakesh Mani, cofounder, Genie, a hyper local player. Genie’s founders have met a lot of investors for a second round of funding who show keen interest in the idea but refrain from investing, despite the business showing promise. 
 
 The more worrisome trend is the steady drop in angel investments which registered a 14 month low in February with 21 transactions. Gripped by the startup fever, a lot of ‘tourist angels’ were seen investing in startups and experts are worried that such investors do not come with much entrepreneurial background.
 
 For angel investment group Keiretsu Forum, 2017 has seen a blockbuster start. “We are in advanced stages of closing 3 deals. This is the best start to a calendar year we have had in our two year history. To be honest, this may be because these specific deals are very high quality - they either have very unique IP, or an outstanding team, or both,” said Rajan Srikanth, copresident of Keiretsu Forum, Chennai. 
 
 Angels in the industry say VC money eating into the angel pie could be detrimental to startups. Several prominent VCs like IDG Ventures and Kalaari Capital have been entering at the seed stage itself. “If VCs fund at the seed stage and do not follow through at the series A round, noone else will touch these startups and they die a natural death. While it may be a small amount for the VC, for an entrepreneur, it is all his effort and money going down,” said Natarajan. 
 
 Rajan of Keiretsu Forum Chennai says they have always preferred investing in companies that are often pre-revenue, and many times with significant gaps in their strategies and team capabilities. “We are the ‘mentor capital’ end of the spectrum - something that most VCs will find hard to do for a number of reasons. But I can see how VCs with their deep pockets and ability to commit follow-on funding can be attractive to companies that are much further along, or have solid teams already in place,” said Rajan.
 
 
