NEW DELHI: It often escapes public imagination that the municipal corporations also provide a host of primary and secondary health services. 

 With six general hospitals, five colony hospitals, 23 polyclinics, and hundreds of dispensaries, maternity and child welfare centres, the medical facilities run by the three corporations register a footfall exceeding one crore daily. North Delhi Municipal Corporation-run facilities register half of the footfall. 
 
 Mostly catering to the economically weaker sections, these facilities suffer from neglect and mismanagement. 
 
 Take, for instance, the case of Hindu Rao hospital, the biggest multi-specialty hospital run by the north corporation. This 1,000-bed hospital suffers from an acute shortage of staff—25-30% of junior and senior resident doctors, and 10-15% per cent of seniors. at the level of senior doctors. “We advertise vacancies and doctors even come for interviews. But most of them refuse to join or leave sooner due to delayed salaries,” said a doctor. The hospital has not been able to pay salaries to its staff on time for the last one year.
 
 “They don’t give medicines even. We have to buy mostly from outside,” said Nirmala Devi, wife of 28-year-old labourer who has been recuperating after a surgery.
 
 Hindu Rao is the biggest hospital run by the corporation, which also runs a medical college, but it does not have an MRI machine. Imaging facilities like PET scan have been outsourced.
 
 Dr Aditya Gupta, president of Resident Doctors Association (RDA)—a union of corporation doctors—says there aren’t enough paramedical staff, which forces them to do their jobs. Doctors have gone on strike for over 10 times in the past two years alone. “Despite serving over 25 strike notices, no improvement is ever witnessed. We had to, therefore, resort to six pen-down strikes where we did not function between 9-11am, and five normal strikes.”
 
 Despite the north corporation employing around 900 sanitation workers to take care of its five hospitals, the conditions are nowhere close to the standards required for a health facility. When TOI visited the waiting room of Kasturba Hospital, the road leading to the emergency section was dug up, and patients, many of them pregnant women, lay on sheets of cloth laid over dirty floors. “Where else can we go? We don’t have money for expensive private hospitals?” said Roshni, a patient from Kasim Vihar. 
 
 Such scenes are common in most government hospitals. A few months ago, the corporation had proposed to hire private agencies to clean up the health facilities. But the plan remains on paper. 
 
 Mohammad Arshad, who had come with a pregnant member of his family, said even though it was a government facility, workers often asked people for money after child birth. “If we had money, why would we come here?” he said. At the maternity and childcare ward, dogs and monkeys roam around freely.
 
 Barring a new block, similar scenes of poor maintenance were common throughout the hospital.
 
 The north corporation has been spending Rs 700 crore annually on the maintenance of its hospitals. Many civic officials say it’s a disproportionate fiscal burden on the body after the trifurcation. “Maintaining hospitals requires huge amount of funds. In the erstwhile MCD, the burden was shared. But now, it’s single-handedly borne by the north when most of the revenue sources went south,” said a senior corporation official.
 
 For fiscal prudence, it was decided sometime ago to merge Rajan Babu Institute of Pulmonary Medicine and Tuberculosis with Maharishi Valmiki Infectious Diseases hospital. A similar plan is afoot for Kasturba Hospital and Girdhari Lal hospital.
 
 
