KOZHIKODE: Despite the government stand against allowing new self-financing colleges and amid a flurry of controversies plaguing the sector, several private   managements have approached the varsities with applications for starting new colleges.

 Though the high court had in January struck down the state government’s August 2016 order banning opening of new arts and science colleges and courses, the denial of affiliations to new colleges have put the varsities in a fix as some managements have initiated contempt of court proceedings for failure to comply with the HC decision.
 
 Calicut University, for instance, has received six applications from educational agencies for starting new self-financing colleges in the next academic year (2017-18). Also the varsity has received applications from 81 colleges for starting around 243 courses.
 
 The varsity has decided to process the applications and conduct inspections to assess infrastructure facilities at the proposed institutions and submit the list to the state government for NOC (No Objection Certificate).
 
 The varsity had recommended for NOC for 18 colleges during 2016-17, but none of them were given approval by the state government.
 
  vice-chancellor   said that the varsity has also received several applications for starting new colleges and courses which are now under processing.
 
 "As the varsity is bound by its own rules and regulations, it cannot be expected to fully implement government policy. We have decided to accept and process the applications for new colleges and courses and the list will be forwarded to the state government for NOC. The decision on granting affiliation to the institutions will, however, be based on the NOC from the governmen,” Khader said.
 
 The high court, while quashing the government order, had said that giving a blanket direction that no colleges could be started clearly amounts to infringement of fundamental right of a citizen. The universities were asked by the HC to reconsider the applications for affiliations and pass orders within a month.
 
  syndicate member T P Ahmed said that as many as four educational agencies that had applied for new colleges last year has approached the court alleging contempt of court.
 
 “The varsity syndicate had again decided to insist on NOC from state government before granting affiliation to the new institutions. Four applicants have approached the court saying that the action of the varsity amounted to contempt of court. The court has asked the varsity to submit show cause notice on one petition. This year too there has been applications for new colleges and courses. The stand of the government is likely to create issues for the varsity this year too,” Ahmed said.
 
