Gandhi had a close-knit, but somewhat tumultuous relationship with Madras, where he must have visited twenty times over a period of five decades. 

 It was in 1896 that Gandhi had first visited Madras, and the newspapers reported that he ‘read out’ a protracted speech which the crowd at Pachaiyappan Hall was patient enough to hear fully. Twenty-years later and a satisfactory orator by then, Gandhi stayed in George Town.
 ‘Kappalottiya Tamilan’ VO Chidambaram, who faced torture in jail and poverty post the release, stood amongst thousands to see Gandhi arriving. Requesting a private interview, VOC was offered ‘a few minutes’ at six in the morning. VOC, a shipping baron once, could now afford a tram ticket and with the service starting at 5.30am excused himself ‘for having intruded upon the precious time’. But Gandhi insisted and they talked about the money raised in South Africa for VOC’s defence which had not turned up in India. A year later, Gandhi faithfully sent the ‘`347-12-0’.
 
 Gandhi also saw the play   enacted by Pammal Sambandam and his troupe at Victoria public hall. 1n 1916 with little tidings, except the date on which Gandhi was arriving, crowd surged the Central Station for every train that puffed in. Having faced disappointment, many of them had dispersed when he actually reached. Touring the Victoria Students’ Hostel, Gandhi was surprised to see so many messes (Smaartha, Iyengar, Andhra, Kannada and others) and chided the students.
 
 When poet Bharathi walked unannounced into Gandhi’s room, he was not even introduced. The Mahakavi invited the Mahatma to preside over a congregation and though the latter declined, the bard left blessing him and his crusade. A spellbound Gandhi enquired on his identity only after Bharathi left. Gandhi also presided over a college debate, marking the inauguration of Madras Christian College debate society.
 It’s surprising that George Town once had a beach that was big enough for a public meeting (it existed opposite the High Court). In an assembly presided by trade unionist BP Wadia, Gandhi encouraged Madras workers to demand their just wages but also toil as hard as those emoluments deserved.
 
 In September 1921, a fully-clad Gandhi left for Madurai from Madras and after a few days, adopted his “half naked fakir” costume that became his trademark thereafter.
 
 Subsequently Gandhi turned up in a dhoti to the dress-code-conscious Cosmopolitan Club, a visit which the president Thyagaraja Chetty (of Justice Party after whom T-Nagar is named) deliberately boycotted. 
 
 Gandhi believed that without Hindi, national integration was unachievable and sent his son   to Madras as the first Hindi Pracharak. Devdas married an Iyengar girl who was Rajaji’s daughter (the Maharastrian priest though well-disposed to the intercaste marriage insisted the groom wear a holy thread to marry a Bramhin girl). An upanayanam was performed just before the wedding.
 
 While addressing a group of Gujaratis at Madras,   said, ‘You people go to far off lands, exploiting people. I am now going to exploit you.’ Not taking offense, most women donated their jewellery to his fund.
 
 In 1936, when he was on his way to a public meeting, a group of ‘people with self-respect’, carrying black flags protested the Mahatma with placards whcih read “Go back Gandhi”.
 
 Gandhi visited Madras for the last time in 1946 for the much-delayed silver jubilee of  . Gandhi purposefully did not speak a word other than Hindi. When the Tamil audience grew restive, Gandhi rebuked them ‘…that time was past when I used to address you in English. I have decided to reserve my English for English men.’
 
 The British governor sent a car to pick him up for dinner at the palace and the British parliamentary committee, too, met him. 
 ‘Your criticism soothes me. Your silence makes me nervous,’ were the words Gandhi had once written to his round table conference-mate Srinivasa Sastri. Gandhi took time off to go to the general hospital to see the old comrade who was suffering from a poor health condition. 
 The politics in the local Congress was well known and before his visit ended, reporters would even embarrass Gandhi by asking if he had come to politically rehabilitate Rajaji (who had exited the Congress in a huff).
 
 Gandhi wanted to inspect the ornamental gates of the Hindi Prachar Sabha and walked on to the Thanikachalam Road. Realising that the other gates were far away, he suddenly flagged a corporation bus destined for   and was dropped in the next gate. The crew and the passengers were pleasantly surprised, but it was understandable if nobody home would have believed the story.
 
 In 1948, Gandhiji’s demise brought spontaneous grief to the city of Madras. Thousands of men shaved their heads and took bath in sea. His ashes were viewed by many. The corporation committee even passed a resolution, requesting the government to rename Madras city as  .
 
