NAGPUR: Tax professionals want the government to bring down inspector raj which, they say, has increased following demonetization. It is also expected that the government may come up with A levy on cash withdrawals after a certain limit to encourage cashless deals. 

 TOI talked to a cross-section of chartered accountants dealing in direct taxes to get their view. “The government may bring a levy on cash withdrawals over Rs 50,000. At the same time there can be some incentive on digital payment,” said Julfesh Shah who heads the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India’s ( ) committee on economic affairs.
 
 Shah expects finance minister   to bring back the standard deduction for salaried employees. “This will be done to provide deduction for expenses like conveyance and other heads,” he said. 
  
 Naresh Jhakotia, a CA, said its time that government increases the upper limits for exemptions. “Since a long time the limits on interest towards home loans, mediclaim and other investments have not been hiked. At present the overall level of Rs 2.5 lakh is too less for the salaried class,” he said.
 
 Jhakotia, who also heads the VIA taxation forum, said the hike is needed to offset the lack of enough social security schemes for the salaried class.
 
 “There has been a spurt in searches and surveys by the income tax department, especially after demonetization. Tax compliance can be ensured through the systems rather than using obtrusive methods like income tax raids,” said  , a chartered accountant and the president of the   (NCCL).
 
 Jogani said income tax laws also need to be simplified to make compliance easier. “The BJP government is expected to stick to the policy of not issuing amendments in retrospect. The amendment that unaccounted wealth probed by the income tax department will attract 75% tax, is effective from 2016. It should have been from the coming financial year,” he added.
 
 Rajesh Loya, the former chairman of the Nagpur branch of ICAI, said the government must relax the limits for tax deduction at source (TDS). “The bigger need is to have easier tax laws. Under the current circumstances, businessman are too busy understanding the finer points of taxation than focusing on the core business itself,” he said.
 
 Sameer Bakre, a chartered accountant, called for moves to stimulate private investment. “The government should also increase the funds for start-ups and bring moves towards recapitalization of banks,” he said.
 
