Panaji: With the poll dates announced to the 40-member Goa assembly all of a sudden, the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) seems to be holding a slight advantage over its rivals. New entrant Aam Admi Party (AAP) has already announced its 36 candidates, but Congress faces an uphill task with a few internal issues yet to be resolved.

 The three parties are among the major political outfits in the Goa poll scene. While the BJP has been in election mode for a longer time, AAP kicked off its political campaign early last year.
 
 AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal held his first public rally on May 22 in Panaji, during his first official visit to Goa as Delhi chief minister. He lunched with traditional fishermen, interacted with small hoteliers along the Candolim-Calangute beach belt, met with the mining industry stakeholders in Usgao, besides connecting with tribals and youth during his three trips between May and August, 2016.
 
 The party launched its youth wing in June 2016 and declared its first list of four candidates on September 13, 2016, the first party to begin declaring candidates. Kejriwal announced Elvis Gomes, former senior bureaucrat of the Goa civil service cadre, as the party’s chief ministerial candidate on December 20. The party has declared 36 candidates till date.
 
 AAP released its youth manifesto on January 2, promising interest and collateral-free higher education loans, creation of 50,000 jobs in five years, sports, agriculture and skills development universities, incubation centres, free wifi zones and single window clearances along with tax holidays to set up ecofriendly operations, besides doubling the sports budget and promising to revitalize football. AAP senior leader Ashutosh said, “Goa is very important for us.”
 
 On the other hand, the state Congress unit, aside from bad press, has also faced uncomfortable questions from citizens about its MLAs performance in the assembly. Despite being the opposition, it was often left to the independent MLAs such as Vijai Sardesai, Naresh Sawal and Rohan Khaunte to haul up the current BJP government for its indiscretions. With three new political outfits in the fray this year, political observers concede that the BJP is likely to enjoy an upper hand. It is the Congress that has to gear up and regain lost ground or break into new territory. The party has already “lost” three MLAs before polls, which its workers agree poses a challenge in rising from the ashes. Despite assurances that it would announce candidates early, by November, the Congress has again missed the bus.
 
 The party’s stance on a pre-poll alliance with secular parties such as Goa Forward, has also created a division with party ranks. Several sitting MLAs have openly supported a pre-poll alliance, something that Faleiro is dead against.
 
 Faleiro is keen to field new faces and is banking on the resounding ‘thumbs down’ given by nearly all the blocks that no alliance should be made with other parties.
 
 On the other hand, BJP stands to gain substantially from the several schemes and dole-policy implemented by it over the four-and-half years. The party functionaries are known to take good mileage of the schemes implemented by the government.
 
 While there is resentment due to U-turns on major assurances given by the party in the last assembly polls, strategists, in the last few months, have managed to minimize the damage, sources say. BJP was, in a way, lucky as there was no strong opposition to put the government on the mat. The opposition for sometime came from the Sangh Parivar members themselves. If anyone has done much damage to the party and the image of Parrikar it is none other than their “guru” and former chief of Goa RSS Subhash Velingkar.
 
 The second loss was due to the ambitious nature of its alliance partner MGP, something the BJP did not expect. To counter the loss, the saffron party admitted Pandurang Madkaikar and Mauvin Godinho into the party fold.
 
 It is likely to take at least a week for the dust to settle.
 
 
