There are guests at   who have stayed for longer than they were expected to. However, far from complaining, the hosts are now preparing to give them a permanent home. A herd of about 50 elephants, which crossed over Nepal to the terai region in India about two years ago has not returned to their place of origin. The elephants have converged at Banke Taal at the reserve. They are settled comfortably and mothers are seen nursing their calves as males vie for the attention of females.

 Senior forest official and former director of the reserve Sanjay Singh has shot videos and clicked photos of the herd, socialising and relaxing during dawn and dusk. He says there might be more herds other than the one at Banke Taal.
 
 Dudhwa's first elephant census, to begin on May 24, would find out the exact number of the jumbos and their locations. “We assume the number to be anything between 52 and 75,“ said deputy director of   Tiger Reserve Mahaveer K.
 
 It will take about two months to count the number of elephants in all the re serves of the country . The census will give data on several factors regarding elephants, like the most frequented wildlife corridor by elephants.
 
 What is a matter of concern for Dudhwa authorities is that elephants have never been permanent dwellers of Dudhwa.
 
 The herds used to cross over from Sukla Phanta Wildlife Reserve and   of Nepal to Dudhwa in the sugarcane season when there was ample food for them.However, every year, they would go back after the crop season was over. This year, despite sugarcane having been cut, the jumbos have chosen to stay. They eat grass and other vegetation. Moreover, half of the population is that of newborns, which shows that the once-migratory elephants are now breeding in Dudhwa.
 
 In the past, there have been incidents where elephants have crossed the border to mate. Females used for patrolling in Dudhwa always attract tuskers from Nepal and vice-versa.
 
 Chameli, a female from Dudhwa, had vanished in 2013. When it re-appeared after a few days, she was pregnant. Forest officers named her calf `Vinayak'.
 
 Chameli had only followed in the footsteps of its elderly mates Pawankali, Champakali, Sulochana, Pushpakali, Pakhri and Madhu, which have reproduced after mating with elephants from Nepal.
 
 Another area of concern for the reserve will be managing man-animal conflict as elephants stay permanently. Dudhwa has a permanent population o f tigers, leopards and rhinos, all mighty animals. Man-animal conflict is already high in the area.Resident elephants, if not managed, can add to the conflict.
 
