AHMEDABAD: The eco-sensitive zone buffer for Nalsarovar has been shrunk by around 69%, and has been given final clearance by eco-sensitive zone committee. However, the process for shrinking of the   involved no objections or comments from stakeholders or local residents.

 Unlike at Gir sanctuary, there were no voices asking for reduction of the  . Ornithologists in the state refuse to speak on the issue. Even without opposition to the original larger ESZ, the Union government in the final notification issued, reduced the ESZ range from 2.35km to 13km from the sanctuary limits to 1.34km to 4.84km away.
 
 The ESZ committee, when publishing the final notification, recorded that no comments, objections or suggestions were received from local persons and stakeholders, in response to the draft notification published in 2015.
 
 Despite no objections to the state of the ESZ from locals or stakeholders, the ESZ committee has reduced the buffer zone. The final notification for the eco-sensitive zone for Nalsarovar sanctuary records that there were no comments, objections or suggestions received from local persons and stakeholders in response to the draft notification. The final notification, however, which drastically cut the ESZ range from 2.35km - 13km away from the sanctuary limits to 1.34km to 4.84km. 
 
 Experts say that if there were no suggestions or objections, the ESZ cannot be revised. The government, in its meeting on April which made the recommendation, has not put on record people’s objections or demands. Instead, they have just said that the “original proposal was covering non-significant catchment areas which have no relevance with the wetland.”
 
 GK Sinha, principal chief conservator of forests (wildlife), said, “We had a meeting with local people and stakeholders and after taking their suggestions into consideration, we have given a detailed reason for the reduction of the ESZ. We had clearly said that original proposal covered non-significant catchment areas, with no relevance to the wetland. These areas were excluded from the ESZ in the revised proposal. It was also mentioned that the extreme south areas of Nalsarovar were excluded. However, Sinha said that he was not aware why the final notification does not record the fact that the local and stakeholders had objected to the ESZ.
 
 A member of the  , H S Singh, said, “The ESZ is drafted through a certain process. The local authorities complete the process of finalizing the ESZ after consultation with the local people. The government of India declares this on its website. However, according to the procedure, the ESZ committee should record objections of the people while making changes to the draft proposal.
 
 Biren Padhya, a wildlife activist, says that he has already filed a petition in the high court challenging the government’s move to reduce the ESZ at Gir. “I will amend my petition and will include Nalsarovar and seek directions despite the final notification being published.”
 
