Forget your pricey gym regimen, laughter therapy at a park or even that morning seaside jog. This smart health fix comes in the way of a 50 ml shot. Of nothing, but raw, freshly pressed juice. That’s right. More Mumbaikars are getting their fix of healthy juices, outside parks and promenades by the sea. Say hello to amateur naturopaths in the way of pavement juice vendors, who are selling healthy juices like aloe vera, neem, 
 and more, to these morning folk.

 
  
  
 
 When the darkness shifts to early light, you will find a small car parked under the flyover at Marine Drive, full of precious goodness. Anthony Devarajan, who makes fresh juice, keeps his date there with joggers and walkers every morning. A retired naval serviceman, he gets up at 4 am, makes the juices and as he doles out his mixes, he can tell what ails each person and also prescribes remedies for it. The 
  mix is the most popular. “The 
 ginger is apt for diabetics,” he informs, adding, “For those with a liver problem, beetroot-
 works best as it has a detoxifying effect. Most times, I can look at people and tell them that they are suffering from hypertension and blood pressure and I give them a juice mix for it.” At `20 a glass, it’s affordable healthcare, for sure.
 
 
  
  
 Going for an early jog to Priyadarshini Park at Bhulabhai Desai Road? Make sure you have a morning shot of wheatgrass. Homemaker Zainab Kaizer Motiwalla, makes the juice from fresh grass right in front of you at a little makeshift table here. “I believe in the philosophy, ‘What you see, you drink’,” she says, adding, “The psychology is that the juice must be seen and had fresh so that the customer knows what he is having. That’s why I extract it fresh in front of everyone. Many people have this notion that   is bitter and avoidable, but it’s actually earthy and on the sweeter side.” The 25 ml shot is sold from 7 to 8 am at `30 a glass. This is a pure concentrate where the grass is churned without any water. You can also buy the grass at `25 a bundle. “Wheatgrass is very good for the skin and hair. It also builds haemoglobin levels and works wonders for the internal organs. You can also use it as a face pack,” she informs. When Zainab started out, she had just a small nook outside the park, but seeing so many takers for her juice over the years, she was asked to move inside. “People tell me that the juice is now an unmissable part of their mornings,” she smiles.
 
 
 
  
  
 A regular seller at Bandra’s Carter Road (opposite the additional commissioner’s office) is Nitin Thakkar, who attracts a steady stream of exercisers to his parked car each morning, from where he sells his juices. He too can tell you which juices are apt for you. “For diabetics, there is 
 and 
 juice, which help to control sugar levels. 
 and aloe vera are also good as post-workout juices as they boost energy levels and keep you going. For high blood pressure, I advise 
 leaf juice or 
 juice,” he says. There is also a solution for those suffering from arthritis. “I make a special drumstick soup and a sprouted 
 soup, which are best for joint pains.” Thakkar has been here for 20 years; he was just in school when he started a juice stall and years later, a naturopathy course after Class 12 saw him take up this hobby more seriously. “I wanted to do this as it is my passion to promote well-being in society; after all, good health is real wealth,” he says. Today, Thakkar also has a lot of celebs in the neighbourhood among his clients. “Gulzar
 ,  ,  , Raveena Tandon and   regularly have my juices,” he informs.
 
 
  
  
 The green vicinity outside Borivali national park has another reason to lure morning walkers and runners. Two juice sellers — Manoj Kaginkar and Shyam Manjrekar — sell a variety of vegetable juices here at `20, for a 200 ml glass. “The 
 mix is in high demand with not just diabetics, but also those who want to avoid high sugar levels,” he says. Ask for wheatgrass, 
 , beet and 
 too. He says the juices also have a seasonal value. “
 is a great source of vitamin C, so it’s apt in summer. And in the rains, we sell more of 
 which helps fend off cold.” The duo is up at 3.30 am to prepare the juices and the stall opens at 5.45. “By 8.30 am, we are all sold out,” he says, adding, “People tell us that their immunity has improved after drinking the juices, which makes us feel nice.”
 
 
 
 
  
  
 Kale and spinach are excellent sources of vitamins A and C, calcium and iron. Low-cal kale juice, mixed with ginger and lemon juice, protects your heart, blood vessels and joints. Those pregnant or having a weak digestive system should avoid this juice as it has a purgative effect.
 
 
  
  
 Karela or bitter gourd is an age-old remedy to lower  . The compound called charantin in it keeps the glucose levels low and controls sugar levels, too. It is a true friend of all diabetic patients.
 
 
  
  
 The red-orange vegetable is packed with biotin, dietary fiber, potassium, vitamin K and folate. If it’s had regularly, it improves skin tone, hair and eyesight. It is also good for cancer patients.
 
 
  
  
 
 Bottle gourd or 
 is high in potassium and has 90% water. It is ideal for juicing and full of minerals and fibre. Regular consumption of this juice can lower blood pressure and improve digestion. It also lowers cholesterol and promotes weight loss. (Mix basil, mint and lemon juice for extra flavour and colour). 
 
 
  
  
 It is the highest source of vitamin C, which makes it anti-ageing. It improves hair growth and is anti-allergic as it guards against colds and coughs.
 
 
 
