New Delhi: When the housekeeping team of a luxury hotel knocked on doors to ask their   for clearing their mini bars on Friday night, many mistook it for an April   prank. “When we told one of them we were implementing Supreme Court’s order not to serve alcohol within 500 metres of a national highway to curb drunken driving, he laughed, saying if he had to drive around why would he have booked a room to stay,” recalled the hassled room service staff. The guest then threatened to complain against him and suggested they work on a better prank next time.

 The manager on duty said they were yet to receive the order. “We didn’t know if it included our banquet and in-room bars or just restaurants and bars but we did not wish to take a chance,” he said. Since many establishments did not have a copy of this judgment or could fully understand its implications, each decided to come up with its own theory to implement it or circumvent it.
 
 Motorable distance was one parameter used by many to argue that their premises were unaffected. From stating their signage wasn’t visible from the highway to reasoning that it needed a detour of more than 500m to reach their premises to some even closing the main entrance and asking guests to take a longer route to enter from another gate, desperation was visible all around. Many, however, for now, have stopped serving alcohol and some have downed their shutters.
 
 The order threw weekend plans into disarray. Some wondered if their farmhouse parties would be subjected to the ruling while some scanned maps to find out which areas to avoid. “Most outings to our premises were a social or family affair rather than drunken revelry. People visited us for brunches, dinners or functions in banquets. We have been penalized for serving alcohol in the most secure environment after taking due permissions,” said the manager at one hotel affected by the order.
 
 Many restaurant owners said the government’s strict actions and monitoring was actually having an effect and people had started drinking responsibly. The ban, they felt, was harsh. “Social campaigns and strict road checks had started showing results as many of our guests used to either come with a driver or opt for cabs. To beat this ban, vendors might shift their liquor kiosks further away from highway which may not be the safest place for drivers. Restaurants and bars set up with crores of investments have no such options and might just have to shut shop,” said a brewery owner.
 
 Riyaaz Amlani, president of  , said it was a sad day for the hospitality industry in the country. “While we will figure out the losses establishments have suffered in the coming week, the biggest worry is job losses. We have no option but to submit our plea to the legislature and hope to work with them to find a solution for us,” he said.
 
