Theatres in Kerala had been witness to a never-seen-before strike, with no new Malayalam movies releasing in the past one month, from December 16 onwards. 

 On Tuesday, the Kerala Film Exhibitor's Federation president Liberty Basheer had announced that they were planning to shut down all their theatres completely from Thursday onwards, with no screenings at all, neither Malayalam nor other language films. Liberty Basheer had also specified that everyone in the federation was united in their decision and more than 340 A Class theatres in major centres of the state would have been shut down. 
 However, there is a new twist to the story now. Officials from the Kerala Film Chamber have informed us that a new association of theatre owners is in the offing, comprising people wishing to secede from the Kerala Film Exhibitor's Federation. 'A meeting will be held and the details of the new association will be revealed soon. The new association will be headed by film technicians and actors who own theatres in Kerala. As of now, 60 A class theatres from major centres have expressed their wish to be part of the new association, and it will be revealed later on as to who else will join it,' says Vyasan Edavanakkad, a member from the Film Chamber.
 
 The Federation members were on strike, demanding a 50:50 ratio of profit sharing between the producers and theatre owners, as against the current 60:40. Already, B and C Class theatres under a second association of theatre owners ' the Kerala Cine Exhibitor's Association ' have been keeping themselves away from the new demands and the strike, and are ready to screen new films. Multiplexes too are functioning as normal. With the formation of the new association, there will be a visible change to the film strike, as the theatres under the new association will be ready to screen new   as usual.
 
 There had been widespread complaints that the decision to close down the theatres was not a unanimous one and made by one individual, Liberty Basheer, and that there were many who were opposing it.
 Meanwhile, the Kerala State Film Development Corporation (KSFDC) had announced earlier that they will be building 100 government owned theatres across the state. Film producers in the state had welcomed this move as well. 
 
 
