NEW DELHI: Several parents who collected textbooks for their children from some government schools on Thursday received them with incomprehensible text and loose pages. They complained that the text was either smudged or stapled to the spine of the books. 

 The government claimed that the books had been distributed from an older stock to ensure students have some reading material to make up for the delay in delivery. School management committe (SMC) members said that all books that have come from this stock have severe printing errors. 
 
 The text in one of the books — Ruchira, a Sanskrit textbook for Class VIII — was particularly strenuous to read because of the jumble of shadows of the words with the original printing. The photographs, too, were smudged. 
 
 Hemlata, a parent and an SMC member, complained that several pages of her daughter’s Hindi book, Vasant, were stuck when she opened it for the first time. The book wasn’t even bound but stapled. “I had opened it for a look, but the title page tore off. It was stuck to the cover of the book, and then stapled. These books cannot last if they are not bound with thread properly,” she said. 
 
 The onus of maintaining a badly bound book solely lies on the parent and the children. “The teachers are strict about covering the books to make them last longer,” said Jahaan Ara, a parent. “Each year, I have to get them bound and covered or the book tatters, pages go missing, and my kids have trouble during exams,” she rued. 
 
 A senior official of the  , which requisitions and supplies to government and corporation schools, said the books delivered were from an earlier stock which were in surplus, and distributed only to some schools. 
 
 The parents also complained that the books are always delivered late, at times just a month before the mid-term exams. “My son received his English and science books a month before the final exams this year. How much of English can a student study in just a month? The whole year teacher-students managed with ‘guides’,” Ara said. 
 
 The delay is not just in a few government schools, but also in the flagship model schools set up by the  . “Our Class VII and VIII students are yet to receive a majority of the textbooks. We have been told that the new stocks might arrive any moment now, but until then, we are making do with older books,” said the principal of a model school in west Delhi.
 
 According to  , adviser to the education minister, the books are expected to be delivered by April 15. “There is no point in keeping these textbooks in the godown. So schools were given this lot. Principals have been assured that these textbooks will be replaced as soon as new stocks arrive,” she said. 
 
 Saurabh Sharma, of Campaign for Change, said that no such notification has been delivered to the principals, or even the SMC members. “Why were these books sent at all if the printing was this bad? Even if they were, why was no written notification given about the replacement?” he said. 
 
 
