BHOPAL: It is double blow of sorts for government-run schools. At a time when most schools are grappling with shortage of teachers, engaging more than 50% teachers in voter IDs work from July 1 furthered affected studies. 

 According to teachers, other than school job, they have to serve as either booth-level officers for election-related drives, be involved in Aadhar card, supervise midday meals management system and these days’ they have been assigned with this new task of making voter IDs of new voters who have turned 18 years old as on January 1 2017.
 
 As a result, students lose several days of education. Thoroughly disappointed with extra duties, teachers told TOI that such duties run for months, and students “suffer severely”. Sarita Devi, a teacher for more than 15 years, has more than 150 students in her school. Assigned with the duty of a block level officer for helping people to get new voter cards, she feels bad about wasting time rather than helping students with studies.
 
 “My students are suffering. Since June 15, we haven’t been able to teach anything to students because of the government duties. It is frustrating that at times we have to do door-to-door surveys and sometimes are engaged in election duty,” she said.
 
 The head master of her school, Manoj Bhatnagar, said: “No teacher wants to spoil career of their students. That is why we are a little hesitant in our protest. Every time teachers go to class, they have to face embarrassment as people come and look for their help.”
 
 Citing an example of a lone teacher in a middle school, he said “Such is the scene that even lone teachers are not spared. Once, a lone teacher at an upper primary school, who had to attend a booth-level duty, had to apologise to his students.” Mukesh Sharma, secretary of  , told TOI, “Due to regular special duties assigned to teachers, most of them are unable to concentrate on classes. Teachers of primary schools play.” 
 
 Speaking to TOI, district education officer (DEO)   Kumar Sharma said no one can violate government orders. “We are helpless as it is a government order and teachers have to do it,” he said.
 
