GUWAHATI:   in the tokay gecko, a   often used in  , is now fetching an even higher price on the  . The reason? These   are proving valuable in space study, police sources say. 

 Forest officials said the demand for these lizards has gone up as scientists want to replicate the unique adhesive quality of its feet.
 
 The tokay gecko is a nocturnal Asian lizard growing up to 40cm in length and weighing up to 200gm. It is in great demand in some Asian countries for its reported medicinal values.
 
 Two smugglers from the state were caught in Bihar's Kisanganj district on Monday while trying to smuggle a couple of these lizards to Nepal.
 
 Sources said, "There are reports that several groups have been selling these reptiles to research groups working in the field of space study. The adhesive quality of the lizards' feet have interested scientists."
 
 "If the adhesive substance in the feet of these lizards is replicated or produced, it can help capture free-floating uncontrollable space debris which threatens expensive spacecraft and satellites," sources added.
 
 Mostly found in the northeast, geckos are listed in Schedule III of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, as a 'highly endangered animal'. 
 
 The entire stretch from the northeast to the India-Nepal border has seen rising illegal trade in the reptiles.
 
 "Initially, geckos would be sent to China to be used in alternative medicine. Dried body parts of the gecko would reportedly be used as aphrodisiacs. The animal is always smuggled alive," said forest officials.
 
 Studies have also shown that the gecko's adhesive properties can be used in developing medical tape.
 
 The smugglers arrested on Monday had taken the lizards to Kisanganj on a train, concealing them in a box of slippers. A hole had been drilled in the box for the lizards to breathe and they were fed with moths from time to time during the journey, said a senior Bihar police officer. He added that the grey market value of the reptiles would be around Rs 1.5 crore.
 
 The Bihar Police have already alerted their Assam counterparts about the arrests.
 
 
