Bhopal: Arrest of eleven suspects involved with ISI agents to spy on India's military installations and troop movements on Thursday, triggered a twitter war between Congress and ruling BJP in Madhya Pradesh. While, senior BJP leader Kailash Vijayavargiya o Friday praised the state police for busting the racket, AICC general secretary Digvijaya Singh sparked a controversy stating ‘none of the ISI suspects was a Muslim.’ 

 BJP national vice-president Vijayavargiya immediately after the revelation congratulated the state police and chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan saying, terrorism and its sponsors must be crushed. 
 
 “MP ATS arrested 11 ISI agents from Jabalpur, Satna, Gwalior and Bhopal. I congratulate chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and Madhya Pradesh Police for this special achievement,” tweeted Vijayavargiya. He further tweeted, “Terrorism and its perpetrators in any form, must be strictly crushed.”
 
 Vijayavargiya's statement was followed by stinging remarks by senior Congress leader and AICC general secretary Digvijaya Singh who took a dig at Prime Minister Modi and his supporters by tweeting, “ISI agents arrested in Bhopal does not have a single Muslim. One of the suspects is a BJP member. Modi's supporters must think of it.”
 
 Digvijaya's remark was followed by some photographs released by Congress leaders, which alleged that one of the suspects named Dhruv Saxena, was district convener of IT cell of Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM). Some pictures released also show Saxena at BJP programmes accompanying top BJP leaders including Bhopal district BJYM president Anshul Tiwari, national vice-president Kailash Vijayavargiya and chief minister Chouhan.
 
 BJP clarified on the pictures saying anybody can take a selfie with top leaders and can join party membership drive.
 
 State BJP chief Nand Kumar Chauhan said, “I don’t know Dhruv and neither is he a member of the party. I congratulate ATS for the arrests. Digvijaya Singh‘s tweet is aimed to vitiate communal harmony in the state.”
 
 “A picture cannot corroborate connivance of any leader with a criminal or anti-social element. People take photos with top leaders and sometimes join public and party functions to take advantage. But this does not indicate any association,” clarified BJYM district president Anshul Tiwari.
 
 He further said that Congress propaganda to malign the BJP's image will never be successful. “Congress leader Digvijaya Singh is known for hurting or inciting religious sentiments. His comments could not be taken seriously,” he said.
 
 As investigating agencies have tighten a noose around the suspects having close political relations, a slugfest between rival political parties seem to be imminent.
 
 
