Dishom guru Shibu Soren’s charisma has never failed to awe the tribals of  , where the   (JMM) leader as a teenager popped in and out of the jungles, carrying forward his father's struggle against money-lenders. Now a septuagenarian, Soren continues to weave his magic as does the bow and arrow, the party symbol, if the Littipara by-election result is any parameter. Though his countenance now appears slightly haggard with the wear and tear from his years of struggle, his rhetoric to eliminate exploiters still has the power to sway his people in a region where the literacy rate still stands at a mere 33%.

 Expecting an Uttar Pradesh-like magic in this tribal heartland, BJP had worked overtime to win over the electorate in Littipara. Not only did chief minister Raghubar Das resort to extensive campaigning in the constituency, camping in Dumka for days altogether, Prime Minister Narendra Modi also visited Sahibganj, barely 100km from the Littipara constituency, three days before the April 9 bypoll. On APril 6, Modi’s message of development could be heard loud and clear across the region.
 
 In fact, soon after coming to power in December 2014, Das had shifted his focus to Santhal Pargana, where BJP had won eight of the total 18 assembly seats. Though Dumka had been declared the state sub-capital a long time ago, development had remained a far cry in the region which Das at the outset had set out to reverse to win over the people. With plans for an AIIMS and an airport in Deoghar and highways, waterways and a port in Sahibganj — the development blueprint was ready to be implemented in the years to come.
 
 The miracle that BJP was hoping for did not happen. JMM’s Simon Marandi got 65,551 votes, beating BJP’s   by 12,900 votes. The reason: the bow and arrow symbol of Guruji’s party. 
 
 “He used to be one of us, fighting for our cause. Be it against the oppression of money lenders or the cause of a separate state, Guruji was omnipresent. We are still paying back his debt,” said, Lalit Soren, a resident of Durgapur under Gopikandar block in Dumka district. Hemant Soren, former chief minister and the second son of Shibu, also never misses the chance to project his father as the face of the party and takes him everywhere he goes for campaigning whether for himself or for another party candidate.
 
 Soren still has the same passion in his speeches, though he also rambles off at times. “BJP is an exploiter party and will have you ousted from your own land,” he told fellow tribals in village after village, as his people who listened to him mesmerised during the election campaign. 
 
 Even his political rivals are in awe of him and respect his contribution to the tribal cause. While BJP did manage to make a dent into JMM’s winning margin, cutting it almost by half from the 2014 poll results, a senior party leaders said it would be “difficult if not impossible to storm his bastion, at least till the time he remains the faceof the party.”
 
 “Though I am now disillusioned with the party and have joined BJP, I could not miss coming to Guruji’s public meetings,” said Rameshwar Murmu, the elder brother of JMM MLA Anil Murmu after whose death the seat had fallen vacant. 
 
 “Nobody can deny the   is a demi-god in the region, though he too had to taste defeat a couple of times, but more lethal is the party symbol — the bow and arrow — which is a way of life for the tribals and synonymous with the Dishom Guru,” said BJP leader Deepak Prakash, who however added that it was only a matter of time before BJP makes its mark here.
 
