BENGALURU: Karnataka’s family planning and birth control programme at free camps organized by the  , is being subverted by workers demanding bribes to carry out the  . Women can avail of the free   (IUCD) at these camps.

 The state is already saddled with poor performance in terms of family planning and birth control with nearly 47% of births in 2015-16 being inadequately spaced -- time between two pregnancies being risky -- according to the latest Sample Registration System report.
 
 Also, the rate of couples taking protection during intercourse too has declined in the state by 11% in the last decade, the latest National Family Health Survey (NFHS 2015-16) report noted.
 
 Designated IUCD camps are held in several government hospitals in the city to avoid unwanted pregnancies. The health department, however, gets flooded with complaints about in-charge staff demanding bribes for what is a free procedure.
 
 A majority of complaint calls to 104 – the health department’s free helpline — are from women being pressured to pay bribes at the government’s free IUCD camps, Shalini Rajneesh, principal secretary at health and family department, told TOI. 
 
 Appealing to the media to ask all women facing corruption at IUCD camps to immediately call 104 and file a complaint, she said: “This is true. My mail inbox too is flooded with similar complaints. I received one this morning too.”
 
 However, Shalini attributed the state’s poor performance in terms of inadequate spacing to “family pressure compelling women to try for a boy child”.
 
 Another health department official said the bribe demanded is anywhere between Rs 500 and Rs 800 for a procedure.
 
 Stating that such corruption among the staff in charge of the camps is a major setback for a state like Karnataka, that has fared poorly in the past few years, she added. “Most women visiting these camps come from financially poor backgrounds. Illegal charging only discourages them from taking birth control measures at the right time. There have also been cases of women visiting camps with a letter bearing my signature and being illegally charged,” the official said.
 
 Inadequate spacing mars family: gynaecologists 
 
 Bengaluru: Gynaecologists are concerned over the state’s poor performance in terms of birth control and have highlighted the risks involved in inadequate birth spacing and dipping protection rate in the state.
 
 Dr Shubha Rama Rao, senior consultant gynaecologist at St Martha’s Hospital, said: “It affects the mother’s health physically and mentally. She enters the next pregnancy with anaemia and other related problems, thereby affecting the baby’s health.”
 
 “With inadequate spacing, the mother’s personal growth is curtailed. Stressed out, she neglects her family. There have been several instances where inappropriate spacing between two pregnancies has led to marital discord as well. The child loses the benefits of breast milk, security, love and care,” she added.
 
 Stating that inadequate spacing between two pregnancies can put the mother’s life at risk during delivery, especially in case of C-section deliveries, Dr Kavitha Lakshmi Easwaran, consultant, obstetrics and gynaecology, Motherhood Hospitals, said: “India being the second most populated country in the world, it is the responsibility of each state to ensure and enforce good family planning measures.”
 
 Safest, should be more accessible
 
 There are measures like pills and oral contraceptives but most women fear them as there might be hormonal issues or weight gain with pills. The other option is injection once in three months but that too has side effects, like irregular periods or excessive bleeding. Also, men hardly use condoms and female condoms are not popular/available. Hence, IUCD remains the best option. These devices can be inserted soon after delivery and are extremely safe.
 
 Dr Gayathri Karthik | consultant, OB&G, Manipal Hospitals.
 
