NAGPUR: Even as the forest department looks the other way, commercial interests over tendu patta has devastated thousands of hectares of forest in the state, the worst hit being tendu-dominated   and   districts.

 Even tall claims by Panchayats (Extension to Scheduled Areas) Act villages, joint forest management committees (JFMCs) and eco-development committees (EDCs) about protecting forests stand exposed as forests in Gadchiroli and Gondia are on fire.
 
 The forest department passes huge benefits to JFM and EDC villages in monetary and material terms but for tendu, these villages have also put their foot down and are not coming forward to extinguish fires.
 
 RS Yadav, additional principal chief conservator of forests (APCCF) for protection, confirmed that as per Forest Survey of India (FSI), which does real time monitoring of   incidents, fires were reported at 10,000 spots in the last three months.
 
 Unofficial sources claim that 10,000 hectares, which is equivalent to 5,350 football fields, and an equal area has been devastated in Gondia and Gadchiroli in fires. Local forest officials are taking no efforts to nail the culprits and primary offence reports (PORs) are being registered against anonymous persons.
 
 However, Yadav said in Gadchiroli there were 300 incidents of fires in which 760 hectare area was burned. In Gondia, in 112 cases, 182 hectares was burned till April 2.
 
 “Territorial officials are completely concealing fire incidents as lot of stakes are involved. Why can’t the officials see what we have been observing. Not a single offender has been booked till now. Even FSI record shows fires at 300 spots in Gondia,” said Sawan Bahekar of Sustaining Environment & Wildlife Assemblage (SEWA).
 
 In Gondia, the most affected areas include Pitambar Tola, Dongargaon, Masulkasa Hills, Murdoli Hills, Sasakuran Hills, Shenda, Koylari, Alebadar, Tekabedar, Jambhli, Pipartola, Chulbandh, Murdoli, Garada, Asalpani, Keshori, Barabhati, Gothangaon, Pangdi, Garra, Pindkepar, and many other areas falling in   corridor. As territorial fires are not being controlled, these fires are entering wildlife areas.
 
 Forest officials speaking on anonymity admit that all the fires are man-made and have been ignited at the behest of tendu traders for better yield. “The fires have been ignited as this year tendu leaves fetched good price of Rs9000-10,000 per standard bag,” they said.
 
 Gadchiroli CCF Kalyan Kumar said though fires have been reported in several places, staff has been responding to these fires. “In some pockets, we have been unable to stop fires owing to extremism and hills. It is becoming difficult to nail the culprits as fires are seen only after miscreants ignite them,” Kumar said.
 
 Kumar added that although 90% of the area under tendu has gone to PESA villages, these villages also could not save forests from fires.
 
