NAGPUR:   dug-out was all smiles despite their team putting up a meek performance. They were busy in chit-chat and laughter even though their men on the pitch were getting beaten on every front.

 The bench as well as those who took the field presented a picture of a team hardly bothered about qualifying for the semifinal.
 
 It was a crucial match for Big Ben. They had a chance of qualifying for the semifinal provided they score four goals and win the match. But the way they played against   ( ), it wasn’t difficult to gauge that they were playing for anything but a win at the   ground.
 
 As a result they lost 4-1 in their last Super Six encounter of  . The result made way for SECR to advance into the last-four phase. SECR will face Nagpur Academy Football Club (NAFC) in semifinals on Friday. While   ( ) would play Rahul Sankrutyayan Sporting Club (RSSC) on Thursday.
 
 On Tuesday, Big Ben took the field with their second string side. Their goalkeeper Naeem Ansari, who is the senior most Big Ben player and has been their saviour throughout the tournament, didn’t even care to put on the team kit. He sat on the sidelines of the ground, warming the bench, dressed in casuals.
 
 On the play field, Big Ben team complimented Ansari’s carefree approach by putting up a below-par, casual performance. In place of Naeem, they fielded young goalkeeper Nayan Malgote, who conceded two easy goal and gave an early advantage to SECR.
 
 Along with Nayan, two new players were included in the playing eleven. It looked like the importance of the match was lost on the Big Ben think-tank. With so many newbies on the pitch, the team lacked combination.
 
 Looking at the manner Big Ben surrendered, the sparse crowd at the ground became unhappy and lamented coming to the ground. “After watching the match, we are feeling that there was something pre-cooked.
 
 “I have seen previous matches of Big Ben, they are never so dull? Looking at their show, many of us feel that they deliberately made way for SECR,” Praful C, who has been a regular at the Super Six matches, said after the match.
 
 Taking full advantage of insipid rivals, Shubhang Mannewar posted a hat-trick to guide to the last four stage with a 4-1 win. Aquib Faraz score the other goal for SECR, while the Atul Neware netted the solitary goal for Big Ben.
 
 
