NEW DELHI: The government on Thursday rejected all claims about   (EVMs) during the  , while promising to support the Election Commission’s move to go in for   (voter verifiable paper audit trail) in a phased manner.

 But amid acrimonious scenes in Rajya Sabha, with opposition parties alleging the government was deliberately choking funds to prevent the EC from going in for VVPAT machines in a major way, the Congress, SP, BSP and Left parties staged a walkout to register their protest.
 
 Law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said the “time-tested, safe and secure” EVMs had proven themselves in successive elections, while accusing opposition parties of complaining only because they had been trounced in the recent UP elections.
 
 But the minister did side-step questions on why the government had repeatedly ignored the EC’s request for around Rs 3,000 crore to purchase about 16 lakh EVMs with VVPAT.
 
 Leader of opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad said, “When the government does not give money, how can it be implemented in a phased manner? Since the 2014 elections, you have stopped funds. Moreover, if you cannot ensure security of the machines, how can you ensure security of the nation? How can we believe you?”
 
 Prasad, on his part, took repeated swipes at the Congress, SP and BSP amid loud protests from the opposition benches. "If you win, then the EVMs are fine, but if you lose, then the EVMs are tampered. Wow! This is great logic. We lost in Bihar and Delhi ... Did the EVMs work properly then or not?" he said.
 
 Specially targeting the BSP, whose chief Mayawati has raised persistent questions over EVMs, Prasad said her party had not complained about the EVMs when it won the UP elections in 2007.
 
 Similar was the case when SP won the state elections in 2012. “It’s not the EVMs that make you win or lose elections, it’s the voters… You are insulting their mandate,” he added.
 
 The minister said the use of EVMs had rid elections of corrupt practices like booth capturing as well as eliminated the possibility of invalid votes being cast, both of which were major problems earlier.
 
 On the deployment of EVMs with VVPAT, he said the courts and the EC were both of the view that it had to be done in a phased manner. There were major logistical issues like production capacity, storage facilities and security considerations in deploying them across the country in one go. Of the 67,000 machines with VVPAT ordered in 2015 from the two PSUs that manufacture them, only 33,000 had been delivered till now, he said.
 
 On holding simultaneous elections for Lok Sabha and state assemblies, Prasad said the idea had emanated from a report of a parliamentary standing committee that had held that the country’s development got adversely impacted due to the high frequency of elections. "It is an idea which has relevance,” he said, adding that it would need consensus and constitutional changes.
 
 
