TRICHY:The syndicate and senate of   (BDU) have each elected a nominee to the vice-chancellor search panel by holding fresh elections on Saturday. 

 Venketarathinam, retired professor of sociology department of Madurai Kamaraj University, was elected by the senate after he won by 16 votes trouncing A Ramu, professor in inorganic chemistry of the same university. Venkatarathinam secured 61 votes. 
 
 S Sivasubramaniyam, former vice-chancellor of Bharathiyar University (BU), has been elected as syndicate nominee with eight votes against his opponent,  , president of Madras University Teachers' Association, who got five votes. 
 
 Only the government’s nominee as the third member to the panel remains to be selected. 
 
 C Thiruchelvam, former registrar of Bharathidasan University, and R Murugan, a college administrator, were earlier nominated to the search panel, but their appointment stood void following a state ordinance.
 
 They did not meet the qualifications prescribed in the state government amendment in the sub section-12 of Bharathidasan University Act 1981. 
 
 The amendment brought in by the state government has elaborated on the definition of ‘eminent educationist’ resulting in disqualification of elected syndicate and senate nominees, as they did not possess the qualification introduced in the amendment. 
 
 Earlier in the day, senators belonging to the   (AUT) and the Tamil Nadu Government College Teachers Association of Joint Coordination Council, BDU, boycotted the election. 
 
 They raised a point of order, questioning state ordinance which ruled out teachers and principals of affiliated colleges from contesting the VC search panel. “The majority of the former vice-chancellors were college teachers but they are no more eligible to contest to be part of the vice-chancellor search panel nominee,” said T  , vice-president of All India Federation of University & College Teachers' Organisations (AIFUCTO). 
 
 However, Director of Technical Education (DoTE) Rajendra Ratnoo, who is also the ex-officio member of the vice-chancellor convener committee, rejected their argument while asking them to contest for the post of vice-chancellor rather than becoming a member of the search committee.
 
 The members also objected to the election process held in the absence of higher education secretary Sunil Paliwal, who is the convener of the vice-chancellor in-charge committee. 
 
  Director of collegiate education S Manjula and director of Legal Studies N S  , who are members of the vice-chancellor in-charge committee, were present at the meeting. 
 
