AHMEDABAD: The city police are on firefighting mode - literally. It’s a daily struggle to keep peace and apprehend criminals with 66.75% posts lying vacant at  . In contrast, the staff   involves just 30%  .

  City top cops have already written to the state director general of police (DGP) for pro-rata allocation of police sub-inspectors (PSI) in next two months where two batches of PSIs are passing out. While the regular batch has a strength of 450, the Mod-2 batch, having staff promoted from the rank of constable and ASI, has 403 officers. Sources however said that even with the allocation of 70 PSIs each from the batch, the percentage of vacancy will remain above 50%.
 
 “Each police station has sanctioned strength of about 12 PSIs so that the station can function in three shifts of four PSIs each. However, there are only four PSIs available at almost all the city police stations, forcing the available staff to slog for more hours. While a few of the vacant posts of PIs have been filled up, only two police stations have two police inspectors each. In all other police stations, there is only one inspector,” said a senior city police official.
 
 The worst hit is the traffic branch where against the sanctioned strength of 100-odd PSIs, there are only 10 available, hampering the monitoring of cases and managing traffic. The branch at the moment doesn’t have a single high-ranking officer. 
 
 After transfer of  , the post of additional CP has remained vacant.  , DCP, is away for training as all three DCP-level posts are vacant.
 
 “The scenario might be more grim in coming days when the number of PSIs would further drop with their promotion to the rank of PI. We don’t want a sudden vacuum due to the phenomenon. While there would be new PSIs joining, we have requested the state police authorities to ensure a mix of new and old for better management of law and order in the election year,” said a senior city police official.
 
 Senior police officials said that the post of PSIs is pivotal in maintaining law and order as they not only work as bridge between officers and personnel to execute orders but are also entrusted with investigation of serious offences. Apart from police stations, some of the branches are also facing staff crunch, thus delaying day-to-day functioning.
 
 Crime investigating agencies hit with staff crunch
 
 City crime branch at the moment has about 1,072 applications under probe where there are just five officers of the rank of police inspector. Apart from this, each inspector is also burdened with 30 investigations of FIRs. Likewise, there are two police inspectors in cyber cell of the city police who have to supervise 400 applications.   (SOG), looking after cases such as illegal immigration and anti-terror operations doesn’t have a single police inspector.BOX
 
 Designation Sanctioned Strength Present Strength Vacancy %
 
 Police inspector 121 82 39 32.23%
 
 Police sub-inspector 731 243 488 66.75%
 
 Total 852 325 527 61.85%
 
