RANCHI:  's love for Indian bowling assumed epic proportions with the Australian captain batting for eight-and-half hours to remain unconquered on 178 as his side posted a handsome first-innings tally of 451 on Day 2 of the third Test at the JSCA International Stadium on Friday.
One-drop Smith, who was unbeaten on 117 overnight, batted every minute of the Australian innings - barring the first 46 taken up by the two openers on Thursday - that lasted a shade over nine hours. His magnum opus, which was low on style quotient but packed with substance, gave Australia the upper hand in the match.
 
 Indian openers   and KL Rahul were, however, up to the task and gave their team an electric start with a 91-run stand. Rahul, who flaunted red-hot form in the previous Test in Bengaluru with scores of 90 and 51, stroked the ball beautifully on a benign surface to race to a fine 67 off 102 balls with nine boundaries - three each coming off Pat Cummins and Steve O'Keefe. Cummins, playing only his second Test match after a gap of five years, impressed with the pace and lift he managed to extract from the pitch. Not surprisingly, he was the one to draw first blood with a well-directed short-pitched ball that kissed Rahul's gloves on its way to   behind the stumps.
 
 Cheteshwar Pujara (10*) settled down quickly with a couple of sweep shots off Nathan Lyon and with Vijay (42*) looking calm and collected at the other end, India ended the day on 120 for 1. With plenty of batting, including   still to come, Day 3 should be all about consolidation in pursuit of a first-innings lead.
 
 Day 2, however, belonged to Smith, who surpassed Michael Clarke's 130, which had been the highest score by an Australian captain in India. The sideshow was 'Big Show'  , who duly completed his maiden Test century and then got pretty emotional about it. It was a splendid effort nonetheless from the Victorian allrounder, who played nine dot balls on 99 before losing patience and slashing at an   delivery -the resultant edge eluding the slip fielders and flying to the boundary.
 
 Smith, who had publicly censured Maxwell for expressing his resentment against his state captain Wade, roared with delight even as his teary-eyed partner smothered him with a bear hug before kissing his helmet and acknowledging the cheers from the dressing room.
 
 The emotionally-drained Maxwell fell five balls later.   ended the 191-run association by inducing a thin edge from Maxwell that   held neatly. Two small partnerships -64 for the sixth wicket between Smith and Wade and 51 for the eighth wicket between Smith and O'Keefe -hurt Team India, who looked rudderless in Kohli's absence. Yadav and Jadeja bowled their hearts out even as stand-in skipper   chose to keep Ashwin out of the attack for 20 overs in the morning session.
 
 But for a persevering Jadeja - who bowled unchanged from the Press Box end for 12 overs and picked up all the three wickets to fall in the morning session for 26 runs - India's plight would have been worse. The Saha-Jadeja combination also accounted for Wade after he had made a brisk 50-ball 37 before the left-arm spinner cleaned up Cummins (0). Hazlewood's run out left Smith stranded on 178.
 
 
