 continues to be dreaded because few realise that timely diagnosis and treatment can cure most types of tumours.Fewer still know that cancer can be prevented by healthy lifestyle. It is to make people aware of these that All India Institute of Medical Sciences started a cancer prevention clinic last week.At the clinic, families of patients are counselled about the risk of familial cancers and screening tests available to diagnose them at an early stage to reduce mortality rates. They are also educated about the identified risk factors such as smoking, alcoholism or obesity for different cancers.

 At present, doctors say survival rate for most cancers stagnates at 20% because a majority of the patients come when the disease is already in the advanced, or III and IV, stages. “If cancer is detected early , 80% patients can be cured of the disease,“ asserted Dr GK Rath, chief of  ' cancer centre, the Bhim Rao Ambedkar Institute Rotary Cancer Hospital.
 
 Bhawna Kapoor (name changed), a resident of Vasant Kunj, whose brother in-law died of esophageal cancer and another relative is suspected to be suffering from breast cancer, went to the centre to enquire whether she was at risk too. The doctors counselled her and advised her to undergo genetic tests. “If she proves positive for BRCA1and BRCA2 gene mutation, then all family members may be advised to undergo age-specific cancer screening,“ said Dr Abhishek Shankar, assistant professor of preventive oncology, AIIMS.
 
 Another patient came to the clinic with his father, who had undergone surgery for mouth cancer caused by   consumption. The father told the doctors there, “My son also chews tobacco.Please counsel him. Tell him to stop this habit.“
 
 Only a week old, the cancer prevention clinic has already attracted over a dozen people. “We plan to offer preventive vaccination for cervical cancer, genetic tests for breast cancer and facilities to make early diagnoses. Also, we will provide counselling to create awareness,“ Dr Shankar said.
 
 The AIIMS' cancer facility began functioning in 198384 with 35 beds on two floors.At present, there are 182 beds, six of them in ICU. Doctors say the patient burden has increased multifold during this period, one reason being the cost of treatment. “Poor people cannot afford private treatment for a disease like cancer because it costs Rs 5 lakh-40 lakh.“
 
 A recent event organised by Indian Cancer Society (ICS) also highlighted how creating awareness about preventive measures could help fight the disease. “Once you get cancer, it is difficult to get cured. It's better to understand the disease and keep it at bay ,“ said Jyotsna Govil, vice-chairperson, ICS. According to a review on preventable cancers in India published by oncologists from AIIMS in an international journal, 70% of Indian cancers (40% tobacco-related, 20% infection-related and 10% others) are caused by potentially modifiable and preventable risk factors.
 
  recommends that one should maintain a healthy weight throughout life by balancing food intake with physical activity and avoiding excessive weight gain. Experts also advise breastfeeding to reduce the risk of breast cancer. Stopping intake of tobacco-related products is considered top priority in keeping the disease at bay.
 
