JAIPUR: The NRI woman arrested for her alleged involvement in the sex and blackmailing racket,  , got involved with the gang without fully comprehending the consequences of her act.

 She confessed to having physical relations with victims in three out of the seven cases, but was regretful of the fact that she had committed serious crimes in the process.
 
 On the third day of her interrogation, she also asked sleuths of the special operation group (SOG) of the   police on the type of punishment she may receive if convicted.
 
 While 26-year-old Kaur was cooperative during interrogation, according to senior officers of the SOG, a cross-examination along with others arrested clarified certain facts relating to the case.
 
 “Earlier, the accused had claimed that she was paid more than Rs 1 crore from at least six blackmailing cases. However, when all the accused were cross-examined, it was found that she was only paid Rs 25 lakh in total,” said Karan Sharma, additional SP, SOG on Saturday.
 
 Officers said that the interrogation also revealed that she had first come to Jaipur to shop for her marriage with a Canada-based Sikh youth in 2014.
 
 She was not keen on this marriage arranged by her family and stayed back in the city.
 
 “She didn’t want to marry this boy. That’s when she met the gang members. Initially, she tried to get a job and was later involved in the sex and blackmail racket. After she made some money, she even returned the money she had borrowed from her father. She also said that she would never return to them. However, after the arrest, she is keen to meet her parents. Her husband managed to speak to them in Hong Kong and they might come to meet her,” said a senior SOG officer.
 
 Kaur also wanted to know about the kind of punishment she may get if convicted by the court. “She asked about conviction and punishment and is regretful of committing the crime,” the officer added.
 
 The SOG had busted the sex racket involved in blackmailing on December 24 last year. Kaur was arrested from Kota on January 5.
 
 
 
