Giant serpents, evil spirits, fatal curses and doomsday – the predictions that have been made about the dangers of opening the   of the   provide enough fodder for another Harry Potter novel.
The treasure troves of the wealthiest Hindu temple in the world have been the talking point since the Supreme Court’s directive in 2014 to open the vaults to audit the valuables, which are worth several thousand crores. While five of the six chambers were explored and its contents inventoried, the royal family has not consented to the opening of the Vault B fearing “god’s ire if the deity is disturbed”.
 The recent decree of the apex court has once again brought to the fore the discussions about the superstitions and the consequences of opening the vault. We listen in…
 
 
 
  
 The opening of the vault will silence all the myths about the temple that have now been spreading like wildfire on social media. Former comptroller and auditor general Vinod Rai, who evaluated the treasures inside the temple, said that the B vault had already been opened at least nine times between July 1990 to December 2002. So, this time, I think, without disturbing the sanctity of the sanctum sanctorum, proper photo-documentation of the inventories must be done.
  
  
 
 
  
 The Ashtamangala prasnam forewarns that the vault must not be opened. To my knowledge, only the antechamber of the vault was earlier opened. I don’t think there is any giant serpent or evil spirit lurking behind the doors. Those are just stories cooked up to scare people.
  
 In 2002, the Supreme Court-appointed committee of Justice Rajan and Justice MN Krishnan wanted to gain entrance to the chamber using gas cutter. The tantri had strictly forbid them against the use of the equipment inside the sanctum. During the process, Justice Rajan was injured when an iron bar fell on him. That’s why a deva prashnam ritual was carried out that warned against the opening the chamber as it is protected by tantrik chakras. Right now, the decision to open the vault is left to the tantric.
 
 
  
 First of all, this is a temple – and not a bank. Even though all devotees are ready to obey what the   says, we want the deity to be respected as well. The entire property belongs to Sree Padmanabhaswamy. The deity is the supreme power of the temple. So we want to know the devahitham (god’s will), the tantri’s and the royal family’s opinion.
  
  
 
 
  
 I consider the idol of our   as the greatest treasure of all. If the treasure trove was to remain a mystery, then fate would have ensured that. But by revealing itself, God has meant for us to seek the treasure and use it to erase the miseries of the destitute. The treasure site can be converted to a museum and the revenue from the ticket sales alone would be enough to serve this purpose.
 Our State has been spending crores to protect these treasures instead of auditing the valuables inside the vaults and using them as assets.
  
  
 
 
  
 The treasure vaults at the Sree Padmanabhaswamy temple remind me of the troves inside the pyramids in Egypt. It’s time the authorities made up their minds about opening the vault. There’s so much hype every time they wonder – to open or not? May be they are scared foreign forces might sneak in and plunder the gold. If that’s the case, it becomes all the more important to audit and safeguard the treasure.
 
 
  
 The temple has a system and respective authorities, patrons and devotees to decide about opening of the chamber. The government should take the initiative to hold a discussion with temple authorities and royal members to get an answer. The decision on this issue should not be one-sided.
 
 
 
 
 
 It is rumoured that if the doors of the vault are opened, a curse will fall upon those who open it and their whole family
  
 An old folktale mentions that there are venomous snakes inside that will attack anyone who tries to get in
  
 Another tale says that devas, rishis and Kanjirottu Yakshi reside in the inner chamber, worshipping the Lord. The enchanting and ferocious forms of Kanjirottu Yakshi are painted on the south-west part of the main Sanctum.
  
 The door engravings are believed to be of a massive cobra that stands guard to the temple deity. The doors apparently can only be opened by sadhus chanting the Garuda Mantra. The hitch though is tht there isn’t any such sadhu left in India.
 
  
 There are also stories of how the vault is connected to the sea and opening it would trigger a flood that would submerge Thiruvananthapuram.
 
 
 
 
 
