So far in an English-dominated space, spoken-word poetry events are now hosting talented young 
  poets who bring their rich Hindi, Kannada and Marathi verse to millennials.

  On June 2, 30-year-old poet   climbed up the podium at The Cuckoo Club, Mumbai, to perform “Shri Ram adalat mein”.
 
  It was a Hindi poem, nearly two minutes long, narrated in the spoken-word style, and it packed a solid punch: “
 ” (you caused riots in my name and killed my own children). Tripathi's performance was thunderously applauded by the largely English-speaking audience from Bandra and Khar. It has also had a successful afterlife on social media, with more than 1.5 lakh YouTube views so far.
 
  Poetry has always lived in performance as much as it has on the page. The patterns and rhythms of verse are easy to commit to memory, which made them easy to transmit through time. But along with India's bards, mushairas and other traditions, there is also a new wave of slam poets, whose work is meant to be read out loud, on stage. These events are no longer dominated by English-speaking performers and audiences; young poets who write in regional languages are taking to the form with great enthusiasm.
 
  Parag Kale, 28, won a recent slam event organised by the Bullock Cart Poetry group in Pune. A software engineer, Kale performed “Me Purush”, a Marathi poem that explores how a man dominates and is dominated by the idea of masculinity. Even though the audience was mostly non-Marathi, his performance clearly hit a chord. “Now people are appreciating and enjoying language poetry too... They may not understand each word but they grasp the larger emotion and the message behind the poem,” says Kale.
 
  These spoken-word events are a liberating, censure-free platform for young writers to express their feelings, their anger and their hope, their feelings about parents, society and the world. There have been poems about depression, sexual abuse of children, the objectification of women, of what it means to be an Indian Muslim. 
 
  “Spoken-word poetry need not adhere to classical poetry conventions, it is more democratic. Young, amateur poets are more attracted to this format than seasoned professionals with published works,” says  , an actor and poet who also runs The  , an online channel to showcase and promote Hindi spoken-word poetry. 
 
  Organisers of slam events say poets who write in Hindi and other regional languages are participating much more now. Unerase Poetry, a Mumbai-based community for spoken-word poetry, uploaded six videos of Hindi and Hindi-English performances on its YouTube channel, and since March, all six have notched up more than three lakh views so far. To draw a rough comparison with the printed word, a bestselling novel in Hindi sells around 5,000-10,000 copies. Simar Singh, the founder of Unerase Poetry, clarifies that while Hindi poetry is not new to the spoken-word format, what is new is the way it is reaching a much younger audience through slam events. “Slam is taking Hindi poetry to the millennials. It is disrupting the 
  format,” says Tripathi, who had performed ‘Shri Ram’ at an event organized by Unerase Poetry.
 
 In Pune, siblings Chandrakant and Priyam Redican formed the   last year to promote original Marathi spoken-word poetry. “Marathi has a very strong literary and poetic tradition. We wanted to explore if it can also be extended to spoken word format,” says Chandrakant, who also runs Bullock Cart Poetry group in Pune. Underscoring the g rowing popularity of language poetry, he adds that last three slam events organised by him were won by Marathi and Hindi poets.
 
  Twenty-nine-year-old Bharath Divakar performed “Appa”, a Kannada poem, at the National Youth   held in Bengaluru last year. “Our Kannada showcase generated a better response than Hindi performances,” says  , cofounder of the Airplane Poetry movement, which co-hosted the event in Bengaluru.
 
 “Just about 15% of the audience was Kannada-speaking, but they related to the emotion of the poem and they understood the word ‘Appa’,” says Divakar who wrote the poem after losing his father. Although he usually performs in English, he says that Kannada slam is slowly getting more popular. “It's challenging to write in Kannada as subject and object come before the verb unlike in English where the linguistic typology is subject-verb-object,” says Divakar, who earns his living writing scripts for TV serials and films.
 
  While many of these young poets are convinced that the spoken word is a great way to connect young people to poetry in local languages, it is just the first step towards a fuller appreciation of poetry, says  , a senior poet and critic. “It's an important exercise, but an incomplete one. People need to sit and read poetry quietly, understanding it, thinking about it and giving it the perfect form,” he says.
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
