NOIDA: The   on Thursday issued a show-cause notice to the builder,  , for violating the sanctioned   for its Zodiac project located in Sector 120 of the city. The move comes after an inspection was carried out by Authority officials on Wednesday.

 Officials found that the builder had constructed several shops in the society’s green area and front setback. The   has asked the builder to remove the illegal shops within seven days or face legal action. Launched in 2009,  , a 2,200-unit apartment project, handed over possession to 1,400 buyers in 2012 and 800 apartments are yet to be handed over, officials said.
 
 In a face-to-face meeting with builder representatives organised by the Noida Authority on April 10, more than 150 homebuyers of the project spoke about the condition of their apartments and said they had been forcibly given possession without adequate amenities like firefighting devices, lifts and adequate water and electricity supply. Buyers had also alleged that illegal shops had been constructed by the builder in violation of the layout plan. “After we received complaints from the buyers, a team of officials conducted an inspection and found out about the violation,” said  , additional CEO (ACEO), Noida Authority. “We issued a notice to the builder on Thursday,” he said.
 
 When contacted, an official with the Amrapali group said, “We have not yet received the notice from Noida Authority. The team of officials did carry out an inspection on Wednesday and they did raise some objections. However, we have constructed as per the building plan and as per the floor area ratio allowed for the project. But, the notice will be examined in detail and if we have violated any norms, we will modify the construction,” the official said.
 
 Meanwhile, in another Amrapali project located in Noida’s Sector 76, homebuyers have demanded an audit of the partly completed housing project. In a meeting with the realtor and the Noida Authority on Wednesday, homebuyers alleged that the builder has diverted funds collected from them to other projects, which has delayed the ‘Silicon City’ project by over three years.
 
  “I have asked the builder to submit a tower-wise completion schedule to the Authority by April 24. ,” Authority ACEO Singh said.
 
 
