PUNE: A comparison of facilities provided by the state government to children with special needs and the actual enrolment of such students in schools shows complete apathy towards their education.

 If over 10,000 visually impaired students are enrolled in standard I to XII only 2,000 Braille books are given by the government. The statistics is worse for students with other disabilities.
 
 Data show that while facilities are still provided to students in primary classes, they fall drastically in the higher secondary classes. 
 
 While over 81,000 students have low vision and over 10,000 are complete visually impaired, the government gives out just 1,523 low vision kits and 1,006 large print books and 855 Braille kits and 1,965 Braille books. For over 36,000 students with hearing impairment, only 3,769 hearing aids are provided. For over 45,000 physically disabled students, only 294 get crutches, 2,551 get wheelchairs and 577 get tricycles.
 
 The situation is worse for other forms of disability. Statistics also point out to the increasing drop out rate from standard I to XII. For example, if in 2015-16 about 30,414 specially-abled students were enrolled, the same year in standard XII, only 4,601 students were enrolled.
 
 The statistics also prove that the biggest fall in enrolment numbers comes after standard X when the numbers drop from 19,086 to 5,005 in standard XI.
 
 “With a uniform sign language still being under consideration and, uniform syllabi and training across states and the country becoming difficult, recorded notes are being used for those with visual challenges. So spellings become an issue when they begin to use the computer with accessible software,”  , founder president of Ekansh, said. 
 
 She said the sign language taught in Pune may differ from the one taught in Chennai. This becomes a major hindrance when it comes to recruitment of students as the interviewer may ask a question which the student may know the answer to, but won’t understand because it may be different. 
 
 Secondly, due to extreme scarcity of Braille books, many students end up studying by listening to audio tapes. This leads to students at even the post graduation level with subjects like political science unable to spell correctly.
 
 “The problem is deep and wide and we need more participation from educators and successful people with disabilities to design better courses. Visually impaired are limited to theory rich courses like political sciences and law or sociology. What jobs can they look forward to? Most hearing impaired students don't complete graduation and end up working for supermarkets or cafes. This needs to change and will, once we understand how to teach them,” Iyer said.
 
 The state education department has rules for the accommodation for children with special needs including those with learning disabilities based on the Bombay high court’s directives. Unfortunately, the implementation by schools is lacking due to poor awareness about learning difficulties, Uma Kulkarni, CEO, Anjali Morris Foundation that helps students with learning disabilities, said.
 
 Kulkarni added that creating more awareness will help identify the children with learning difficulties. These children don’t get identified or diagnosed with learning disability till they reach standard X when they have to get a certificate to appear for the board examinations. However, early identification can lead to early intervention which helps children cope with the specific learning disability, she added. 
 
 “Heightening the awareness among the school’s management, special educators. counselors, mainstream teachers and parents can help. Training teachers to include the children with LD in the mainstream helps boost self-esteem and confidence in children with learning difficulties as they often get caught in a vicious cycle of failure due to low academic scores. Hence, we need facilities in schools to identify such children at an early stage and trained staff to practice inclusion,” she said.
 
 Director of primary education   said the matter is looked after by  . Its officials said they only look after the data related to secondary classes. 
 
 When asked why the number of equipment available is low in secondary classes, an official in condition of anonymity said, “The data is not completely true. Teachers randomly put the names of students under the CWSN category even if the child’s eyes water or the child has attention deficit. All children under the category are checked at district hospitals and if there are 40,000 cases, over 20, 000 are cured. There is shortage of equipment. The department is new and lacks adequate funding. We are in the process of rectifying the situation.”
 
 
