After the nightlong merriment and partying, many Nagpurians would be nursing a headache or sleeping over, but there are some youngsters out there, who have decided to find permanent shelters for city’s stray pooches, to begin their new year on a philanthropic note. We reveal their sweet little plan…

 
 
 It all started with the deep love that a young entrepreneur,  , has for stray animals of every type. Now she has six dogs of different breeds and almost 60 stray dogs that are up for  . Hugging a stray puppy close, she shares, “Seeing the callous way people treat the strays, I decided to start a shelter for the homeless, ageing and ailing animals. Along with dogs and cats, we have also rescued an owl and a camel recently. The idea behind the initiative is to sensitise people of Nagpur about these homeless animals, who give unconditional love and are so easy to maintain.”
 
 
 
 The initiative, supported by more than 400 college students of Nagpur, aims to motivate people to go for group adoption of stray dogs. “We are creating awareness that people of an entire flat scheme or a housing society can adopt one or two strays. So, the cost of maintaining them is negligible. And if they are sterilised, their number would also not increase. In return, these loyal friends will guard your homes and your neighbour’s residence too,” shares Smita.
 
 
 
 These youngsters have also decided to educate people about the rights of animals. Smita shares,“It is really shocking to see how badly some people treat not only the strays, but also their own pets. They are badly beaten, bruised or tortured, and in some cases, even killed. The sad part is that even cops are not aware about the laws regarding the cruelty against animals. If people knew there is a jail term of five years for killing an animal, they would never attempt such ghastly things.”
 
 
 
 “We are organising a puppy adoption drive today at  , near Sandipani School at Hazari Pahad, from 10am to 3pm. So, all those animal lovers who want to bring home happiness and unconditional love can adopt a puppy,” says Mire.
 
