NASHIK: IT engineer and K K Wagh College student  , who became quite popular in the virtual world for his cellphone application, ‘Helping Hand’, allegedly committed suicide at his Ashokanagar residence on Wednesday night. 

 Police said Bag hanged himself to death after recording a suicide note in a video format on his smartphone. 
 
 The Mumbai Naka Police have registered a case of accidental death, but said the reason of his death was still unknown. 
 
 A second year information technology (IT) student, Bag became popular after his   ‘Helping Hand’ saved thousands of lives during the devastating flood in Chennai in 2015. His most recent public appearance was during the Nashik Police’s Marathon in February, when he managed the entire live telecast of the event using drone cameras on Facebook. 
 
 Helping Hand, a free application made by Bag, was downloaded by nearly 2 crore people across the country in December 2015 when the floods had hit Chennai. Thousands of SMSes were sent that were routed through his server during the floods. Bag had identified the location of the stranded people and informed the NGOs working on ground. In this way, he had helped rescue nearly 19,000 people. 
 
 Bag’s efforts were even appreciated by Mark Zuckerberg of Facebook. The same app was used in Nashik and Ujjain Kumbh Mela to locate missing people and also during the Laksha Deepotsava, a huge religious gathering held in November 2016 at Dharmasthala in Karnataka.
 
 According to police, Bag hanged himself around 6pm on Wednesday in his room at his Ashokanagar residence where he lived with his mother and younger brother. His father lives in Amalner in Jalgaon district. 
 
 It took almost two hours for the family members to realise that something had gone wrong. His brother, Hrushikesh, broke open the door of his room and took him to a nearby private hospital, where doctors declared him dead after preliminary examinations. 
 
 “While nothing like a suicide note was found near his body, some video clips were found recorded on his smartphone. In the clip, Bag was seen saying that that the decision of committing suicide was his own and no one from his family and friends should be harassed. He hasn’t blamed any person or circumstances for his suicide,” commissioner of police Ravinder Kumar Singal said. 
 
 The IT cell of police is scrutinising WhatsApp and other messages on his cellphone to find out details. 
 
 Bag’s cousing, Gaurav Joshi, said no one in the family was aware if he was going through some mental stress or had arguments with somebody. “He was very happy go lucky boy. No one even guessed from his behavior that he could take such extreme step. We are not aware whether he was under some pressure or not,” he said. 
 
 According to his friends, Kaushal was active on the social media till March 14 midnight. “His last Facebook post was at 10.35 on March 14, in which he says that he is going to Pune for some work,” a close friend said. 
 
 Bag kept posting updates on Instagram till March 14. His Tweeter account highlights is pinned tweet to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, urging him to read an article about his app published in a local newspaper. “Sir, please read this article. I want to donate my application to all the sectors of India,” he tweeted. Kaushal’s friends were still in a state of shock and most of them refused to talk to the media. 
 
