NEW DELHI: On the eve of a special   of  , lieutenant governor   requested chief minister   to reconsider the introduction of the Regularisation of   and Teachers Engaged under the Sarv Shiksha Abhiyan Bill, 2017. Baijal said that the introduction and consideration of the   was “not in accordance with the constitutional scheme of governance of NCT of Delhi”.Top sources in the government said the Bill is the property of the assembly and has been circulated among the MLAs. “What happens to the Bill now will be decided by the  ,” they affirmed.

 The Bill seeking to regularise the posts of guest teachers in Delhi government schools was cleared by the cabinet on September 27 and was posted for the assembly’s special session on October 4.
 
 While announcing the regularisation, deputy chief minister and education minister Manish Sisodia had said only guest teachers with the requisite qualifications would be given permanent appointments. Of the 17,000 guest teachers currently on the rolls, he pegged the number of qualified teachers at 15,000. “Teachers to be regularised should hold qualifications like CTET and should have been employed as per procedure,” Sisodia said.
 
 The   held that matters relating to services were beyond the legislative competence of the Delhi assembly. He added that the procedure for initiating and processing legislative proposals and introducing bills were detailed in the Transaction of Business of the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi, Rules, 1993. This included mandatory consultation with the law department about the assembly’s competence to enact proposed measures. 
 
 Baijal pointed out that on August 4 last year, Delhi high court had confirmed that the “all services under NCT of Delhi are governed by Entry 70 of List I alone and thus fall beyond the legislative competence of legislative assembly of NCT of Delhi. And under Section 41 of the NCT of Delhi Act 1991, ‘services’ is a matter in respect of which the LG is required to act in his discretion”.
 
 Earlier this year, DSSSB, the state recruiting agency, had released an advertisement for teachers that made no mention of regularisation of guest teachers or the weightage to be given for their years in this post. The government wrote several letters to the LG requesting a stay on the recruitment and to instruct the directorate of education to find a formula to regularise guest teachers. The stay was ordered on August 24.
 
 
