The sky at Poosaripalayam wore a colourful look last weekend and sent many a spirit soaring, courtesy a  , which was organized as part of the  . Despite the nip in the air and rain playing hide and seek in the city, kite enthusiasts in the city turned up in droves to try their hand at this outdoor activity. While a majority of the youngsters at the festivals were flying   for the first time, many others took the opportunity to relive their childhood memories.

 Beautician Chitra Sairaj was on cloud nine after she successfully sent her first kite soaring in the sky. “I had always wanted to fly a kite, but never had the nerves to do it. But, this time around, when I heard about a kite festival in the city, I decided to give it a shot. I struggled a bit at the outset; but once the kite went up in the air, there was just no stopping me. It was an amazing experience. The weather was just perfect, too. I have always looked at the colourful and vibrant kites with awe, and I must say, the experience is just out of the world.”
 
 For Pavithra G, assistant manager at a private bank in the city, it was an opportunity to relive her childhood days in Chennai. “I used to fly kites as a child, but after flying kites with manja was banned in Chennai, I missed the activity badly. Hence, I didn’t want to let this opportunity go and turned up with a bunch of my friends.”
 
 Anirudhan GS, member of a jewellery firm that organized the event, tells us that the idea to host a kite flying festival was to help people relive their childhood days. “Not many in current generation know about flying kite. It was an opportunity for them to learn something that their forefathers did. For those who flew kites as a child, the event provided a platform to share their memories and dole out tips. By Sunday, there were more than 1,000 kites in the sky and the enthusiasm was palpable among both 3-year-olds and 60-year-olds.”
 
 Subash V, managing director of a private firm, on the other hand, bid a temporary adieu to his gadgets. “I took my little son to the event and he was amazed to see a kite for the first time in his life. But once he started flying the kite, we couldn’t get him off the ground. It was fascinating sight to see people of all ages jumping with joy. I also brushed up my knowledge on kite flying from the experts on the ground.”
 
 As colourful and fancy kites painted the sky in vibrant hues, a team of experts from Bengaluru gave few lessons on   to the participants. 
 
