BENGALURU:  , the second   of the Karnataka high court who resigned on Monday, said he wasn't keen on a transfer with hardly 10 months of his tenure left.

 Citing institutional discipline, he declined to react to his proposed transfer to the  .
 
 Justice Patel was transferred to the Karnataka high court in February 2016 after he was the acting chief justice of the Gujarat high court for about six months.
 
 With the chief justice of the Karnataka high court due to retire on October 9, it was expected that Justice Patel would be the natural choice for the post of acting chief justice. If Justice Patel had proceeded to the Allahabad high court, he would have been the No. 3 judge there.
 
 Justice Patel said he has acted as per the oath in his 16year tenure as a judge of the higher judiciary and it was “a mature family decision“ to resign from the court. He said he would carry sweet memories of his 19-month stint at the Karnataka HC.
 
 Sources with access to Justice Patel said he doesn't subscribe to the public per ception that the directives issued by him as a Gujarat high court judge in a controversial case -the Ishrat Jahan encounter case where a CBI probe was ordered -contributed to the denial of a higher post. His contention, according to sources, is that judges go by the law and not by the cause title of the petitions where the names of the parties are mentioned. Justice Jayant Patel's resig nation has thrown the fra ternity of advocates into consternation. The Karnataka State Bar Council (KSBC) and the Advocates' Association of Bengaluru (AAB) have condemned his proposed transfer to the Allahabad high court.
 
 AAB members, led by general secretary Putte Gowda, on Tuesday staged a protest outside the gates of the court.The AAB condemned the proposed transfer of Justice Patel, who it described as a “fair and good judge“.
 
 The KSBC said the decision to transfer Justice Patel without any valid reason will lead to erosion of public faith in the judiciary.
 
 YR Sadashiva Reddy, cochairman,  , and member, special committee of the KSBC, said the fraternity is not happy with the latest development.In a statement, Reddy claimed honesty has no place if one were to look at the present situation of the justice delivery system of the higher judiciary in Karnataka.
 
 Against the sanctioned strength of 62 judges, the Karnataka HC has 27 judges, and repeated pleas for filling vacant posts have not been acted upon, he said, adding the bar council will hold a meeting on Wednesday to discuss the resignation.
 
