GREATER NOIDA: After six deaths in road accidents on Monday, Tuesday too dawned dangerously in Greater Noida as a combination of fog and reckless driving claimed six more lives and left nearly 10 people injured.

 A pileup on the  , triggered in very low visibility by a suddenly braking truck, claimed the biggest toll-three people dead. All the accidents were reported in a little over an hour between 7am and 8.15am. One of them involved a UP Roadways bus that ran over a 42-year-old school worker, Munni Devi, on DankaurSikandrabad road. The Met office in Delhi said visibility was very poor (0-50 metres) at 7am and started improving 8.30am onwards. 
 
 The Yamuna expressway accident happened near Jewar toll plaza around 7am when a sand-laden truck suddenly braked to turn near the 36th milestone. 
 
 Santosh Chaturvedi (50), a Mathurabased businessman, his friend and a driver died in the pileup. Chaturvedi was headed towards Ghaziabad with his wife Rachna (45), son Yash (30), daughter Yashwanti (27) and friend Mukesh Gupta (45).They were in two cars, an Ertiga and a Ciaz. “One of the cars hit the truck on the AgraGreater Noida carriageway .Chaturvedi, Gupta and Ibrahim, one of the drivers, were killed. It's not clear who was travelling in which car,“ said Jewar SHO Ajay Kumar. The rest of the family members are being treated at Kailash hospital in Jewar.
 
 Jewar witnessed another accident an hour later when two trucks collided head-on on the bumpy Jhajjar road around 8.15am. Four people were injured. In the Dankaur area, two bikers were killed in separate accidents. Rohtaash (31), a resident of Rampur Khadar in Jewar, was hit by a Canter at the T-point near the Latifpur intersection.
 
 Pradeep (28) died when a speeding vehicle ploughed into his bike near the Chappergarh underpass on the service lane of the Yamuna expressway . His friend Pramod, who was with him, was seriously injured. Munni Devi was killed when she was hit by a UP Roadways bus (UP87G0126) around 7.30 am.
 
 She was crossing the road when the bus hit her. “The driver fled from the spot. Passengers were possibly present in the bus but nobody stopped to help her,“ Tomar said.
 
 An official said the visibility at 5:30 am on Tuesday was around 200 metres, which is classified as dense fog. “The visibility dropped and fluctuated between 0 and 50 metres around 7 am. From 0-50 metres, it is considered very dense,“ the official said.
 
