
I grew up in a mud house, in a small village. My journey has been a long one, and yet this journey is hardly mine alone. It is so telling of our nation and our society also. For all its problems, it follows that basic mantra given to us in the Preamble to the Constitution — of ensuring justice, liberty, equality and fraternity, and I will always continue to follow this basic mantra.
 
 Our Independence was the result of efforts by thousands of patriotic freedom fighters led by Mahatma Gandhi. Later, Sardar Patel integrated our nation. The principal architect of our Constitution, Babasaheb Bhim Rao Ambedkar, instilled in us the value of human dignity and of the republican ethic.
 
 We would be completing 70 years of our Independence soon. We are also well into the second decade of the 21st century, a century that so many of us intuitively believe will be an Indian century, guided and shaped by India and its accomplishments. We need to build an India that is an economic leader as well as a moral exemplar. For us, those two touchstones can never be separate. They are and must forever be linked.
 
 The key to India’s success is its diversity. Our diversity is the core that makes us so unique. In this land we find a mix of states and regions, religions, languages, cultures, lifestyles and much more. We are so different and yet so similar and united.
 
 The India of the 21st century will be one that is in conformity with our ancient values as well as compliant with the Fourth Industrial Revolution. There is no dichotomy there, no question of choice. We must combine tradition and technology, the wisdom of an age-old Bharat and the science of a contemporary India.
 
 Nation-building requires national pride: We take pride in the soil and water of India; we take pride in the diversity, religious harmony and inclusive ethos of India. We take pride in the culture, heritage and spirituality of India. We take pride in our fellow citizens. We take pride in our work, and we take pride in the little things we do every day.
 
 Each citizen of India is a nation-builder. Each one of us is a custodian of India’s well-being, and of the legacy that we will pass on to coming generations. The armed forces that protect our borders and keep us safe are nationbuilders. Those police and paramilitary forces that fight terrorism and crime are nation-builders.
 
 That farmer toiling in the blazing sun to feed fellow citizens is a nation-builder, and we must never forget that so much of our farm labour comprises women.
 
 That scientist concentrating tirelessly and 24x7 to send an Indian space mission to Mars, or invent a vaccine, is a nation-builder. That nurse or doctor helping the sick to recover, and fighting disease in a remote village, is a nation- builder. That young person who founds a startup and becomes a job creator is a nation-builder.
 
 The startup could be on a small farm, converting mangoes to pickles. Or in an artisans’ village, weaving carpets. Or at a laboratory lit up by giant screens. That tribal and ordinary citizen striving to preserve our ecology, our forests, our wildlife, to push back climate change and to advance the cause of renewable energy, is anation-builder.
 
 That committed and driven public servant who works beyond the call of duty, whether on a flooded road, directing traffic; or in a quiet room, poring over detailed files, is a nation-builder.
 
 That selfless teacher who equips young children and shapes their destinies is a nation-builder. Those countless women who take care of families with so many other responsibilities, at home and work, and raise children to become ideal citizens, are nation-builders.
 
 India’s voice counts in today’s world. The entire planet is drawn to Indian culture and soft power. The global community looks to us for solutions to international problems — whether terrorism, money laundering or climate change. In a globalised world, our responsibilities are also global.
 
 This links us to our global family, our friends and partners abroad, and our diaspora, that contributes in so many ways across the world. It brings us to the support of other nations, whether by extending the umbrella of the International Solar Alliance, or being first responders following natural disasters.
 
 We need to sculpt a robust, high-growth economy, an educated, ethical and shared community, and an egalitarian society, as envisioned by Mahatma Gandhi and Deen Dayal Upadhyayji.
 
 These are integral to our sense of humanism. This is the India of our dreams, an India that will provide equality of opportunities. This will be the India of the 21st century.
 
