Face it. Communication now takes just a few seconds. We instantly swipe right for love, break the ice with a ‘like’ on social media in the blink of an eye and type out a text message faster than we can think. At home, kids prefer to have dinner while browsing on the phone, in restaurants you will see more people’s hands under the table dashing off social media messages and in offices, you prefer to retreat behind your screen, even during a break. Whatever’s happened to good, old-fashioned parley? It seems like one of the top modern challenges is to reclaim personal, face-to-face interaction. 

 
  
  
 Counselling   Dr Kurien Thomas agrees that while people may be conversing more on different platforms now, it’s the quality of their conversation that has gone down. “If you take a look at social media you will see that there is more sharing, but the quality of it has waned. People constantly engage on the   front, but that conversation is diluted and not effective to the extent it should be. Today, communication is also more need-based. We find people becoming more individualistic. It’s a self-centred approach where you reach out only when you want something,” he says, warning that this will have repercussions. “There are definite demerits to this; for one it’s proven to be detrimental to interpersonal relations.” 
 
 
 A cold fact that’s emerged as the outcome of too much digitalisation is that people actually cannot open up face-to-face. Says psychologist Dr Seema Hingorrany, “Today,   conflicts, misunderstanding and breaking-up via texting, is on the rise. I recently had a case of someone who announced a marriage break-up on a chat interface. What’s worse is, it was put out on a family chat group and it left the girl devastated. People have increasingly begun to act impulsively like this — they shoot out rude messages and block others using the   platform as a tool, which can put a crack in any relationship. They are almost conversation-phobic in that sense. We tell clients, ‘Please don’t use social media to convey your intense emotional thoughts to each other’.” She adds that the traditional, conventional way of meeting up and sorting things out is best. “Nothing can replace face-to-face interaction. The way you sit across and converse with words is the best way as it helps convey warmth and energy and rules out any misunderstanding.” 
 
 
  
  
 Just landed a date? The ‘it’ factor you need may not be just your charisma. Agreed, charm is one thing, but to cut through ice, especially when it’s on the personal front, you need to be able to say the right things as well. Thus, good conversation is the key. If you’ve just met a great-looking girl or Mr Hunkiness, here’s how to make that impact with your words… 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 Of course, the kind of conversation you have also depends on the place you’re in. You may be at the opera and find a like-minded someone who has the same taste. Or you may come across someone at a park and chat about your common interest in cycling. 
 
 
  
  
 It’s not going to all be smooth sailing; there are mistakes you might make. It’s no surprise that embarrassing questions might pop up like asking about an ex or even someone’s financial deals. You may also get nervous and blurt out more about yourself than you wanted. Stay calm. It happens. Just look the person in the eye and continue talking. Things will ease up again.
 
 
  
  
 Don’t cast furtive glances at your smartphone or reach out for it in the midst of a conversation. Nothing turns someone off faster than that. Instead, just focus all your attention on the person in front of you.
 
 
 
 Even after all the rules, if it seems to others like you are just ticking items off a checklist, then it won’t be appreciated. For instance, no one in the first conversation wants to know how many trips you made abroad in a year or how often you got a hole-in-one at the golf course. You will sound artificial if you do so. Drop the pretence and just be as you are. 
 
 
 It’s not just about words in a sentence. As per psychology professor Albert Mehrabian, the tone, facial expression, posture gestures and body language all add to meaning in the conversation. 
 
 
 There’s a crucial need for good conversation in the office. For one, it makes you care. It also builds empathy, bonhomie and learning. 
 
 
 There is a crucial difference between a conversation starter and a pick-up line. The former gives way to an open-ended question that paves the way ahead. Example, “Hey, where did you get your bag from?” The latter is used to engage a person to pursue intimate or romantic interest.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
