PUNE: Five student activists of the ABVP and seven of the SFI were arrested on Saturday, a day after a clash on the   over the ongoing row at Ramjas College in Delhi.

 Deputy commissioner of police (zone III) Ganesh Shinde told TOI, “The student activists registered   besides other charges. We have arrested 12 student activists and have launched a hunt for others.”
 
 The complaints of rioting and other charges were registered under sections 147 (rioting), 148 (rioting armed with deadly weapon), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace), 149 (unlawful assembly to commit an offence with a common object), 324 and 323 (voluntarily causing grievous injury) of IPC and  .
 
 Shinde visited the university on Saturday to take stock of the situation. “The incident has not created law and order problem,” he said, adding that instructions had been issued to policemen to remain alert.
 
 The student activists from either side clashed with each other on the varsity campus over an SFI poster announcing a meet on February 27 to protest against the events at Ramjas College, state education minister Vinod Tawde’s alleged “threat” to the SFI members of a polytechnic college in Solapur and BJP leader Prashant Paricharaks’s disparaging remarks about army personnel during the recent zilla parishad elections.
 
 At least five students were injured in the clash on the university campus between 8.30pm and 9pm on Friday. Police went to the campus to bring the situation under control on Friday night and said no one was seriously injured.
 
 The five SFI activists arrested in connection with the clash are Nasir Kadar Shaikh (36), Satish Balasaheb Gore (27), Sandeep Chintaman Marbhal (21), Satish Kumar Jakappa Padolkar (27) and Satish Marutrao Debude (28). They are all residents of the university boys’ hostel.
 
 The ABVP activists taken into custody are Ram Vitthal Satpute (27), Rahul Devisingh Chandel (20) and Hrishikesh Devappa Sargar (21) from Sadashiv Peth, Shardul Sanjay Bhegade (19), Kunal Prakash Sapkal (22) and Advait Dattatraya Patki (21) of the varsity boys’ hostel and Karan Yogesh Shirke (21) from Katraj.
 
 Nasir Shaikh (27), the SFI president of Sabitribai Phule Pune University, stated in his complaint, “We had peacefully gathered near Aniket canteen and were distributing pamphlets condemning the statements of Paricharak and the Ramjas College incident. All of a sudden, 15-20 ABVP activists surfaced and started shouting anti-SFI slogans. They argued over the issue of distributing pamphlets and started tearing off the pamphlets in a fit of rage. The ABVP activists also assaulted us with belts, stones and sticks, triggering a clash between the two groups.”
 
 In contrary, ABVP activist Ram Vitthal Satpute (27) stated in the cross-complaint, “The SFI activists shouted ‘ABVP murdabad’ slogans and pasted posters on the university campus, which were against the national interest. When we asked them not to do so, the SFI activists beat us up.”
 
 The in-charge of the Chatushrungi police station, senior inspector Dayanand Dome, said, “We have collected video of the incident from the student activists of either side to ascertain their role in the incident. We have intensified the deployment on the university campus to avert law and order problem. The ABVP and SFI sought permission for taking out a morcha to condemn the incident in the university, but we refused them permission.”
 
