Bhopal: In a major breakthrough, the special task force (STF) of   forest department has arrested three poachers who have the blood of at least 30 tigers on their hands and were wanted by CBI in connection with   cases in the Vidarbha region between October 2012 and May 2013. 

 Foot soldiers of an international poaching syndicate, Tilia, 25, his brother Tyohari, 36, and Rockin, 38 are from MP’s Katni district and belong to the nomadic community ‘Pardhi’. They prowled the forests of MP and Maharashtra and allegedly snared and killed at least 30 tigers, say sources. CBI’s Mumbai unit was on the lookout for them for nearly four years.
 
 An STF (wildlife) team of MP forest department, led by senior IFS officer R P Singh and OIC Ritesh Sirothia, nabbed the trio on specific intelligence when they were investigating the poaching of a tiger in Pench Tiger Reserve. All three were produced before a CBI special court in Jabalpur and handed to the central agency on transit remand. Tilia, Tyohari and Rockin will be produced in a Nagpur court on Tuesday. 
 
 According to the CBI Nagpur bureau, a well organized gang was busted in June 2013 by foresters and police in Mansar and the poachers confessed that two gangs had killed at least 11 tigers in eight months (Oct 2012 and May 2013). Maharashtra forest officials had recorded the killing of only five tigers.
 
 All the tiger skins were sold in April 2013 to Sarju Bagdi, a Haryana/Delhi resident who specialises in smuggling of tiger skin and parts, say officials. The hides were systematically smuggled to Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and then to Nepal. The first deal for six skins was struck in April 2013 in Bhandarbodi near Ramtek, Nagpur, while another five skins were sold in June 2013 near Amdi, said sources.
 
 Key poachers Chika and Mamru are already in custody. Rockin, who was arrested by MPSTF on Monday, is a close relative of Chika. Many of the poachers had gone underground after the 2013 bust. Former Maharashtra CM Prithviraj Chavan had recommended a CBI inquiry into the matter due to inter-state ramifications though the forest department opposed.
 
 Reach Out To Pardhis
 
 Wildlife activists say that Pardhi community members living near forest areas need to be rehabilitated soon. Pardhi is a traditional hunting community and this was the only skill they knew for ages. When hunting was banned in 1972, they were in utter disarray. “In the absence of any rehabilitation efforts, Pardhis were left with no legitimate way to eke out a living. The government has largely neglected them and has hardly done anything for their social uplift. Most of them lead a life of nomad destitutes. While crores are spent on conserving tigers, not much has been done to mainstream Pardhis,” said Vaibhav Chaturvedi, conservation professional. Asked what needs to be done to keep them away from tiger poaching, Chaturvedi said, “Enforcement and social uplift of traditional hunting communities are needed. But first, the government and society must be sensitive about them as they are about tigers. Concentrated efforts have to be made in order to uplift and mainstream Pardhis thus diverting them from poaching.”
 
 
