NEW DELHI: In a speech in Lok Sabha in August 2014, as Samajwadi Party supremo Mulayam Singh Yadav looked on with mild interest, Yogi Adityanath took up the issue of funds offered by the Uttar Pradesh government for maintenance of “kabristan“ boundary walls much before the 
  by PM   during the heat of the UP campaign.

 “Some Rs 300 crore has been set aside of this. There are disputes in every village,“ he said. Explaining why this was so, he said the policy had become an excuse for illegal encroachment of land with the full support of the state. “This is the wish of the administration... will there not be communal polarisation?“ he asked.
 
 This was Yogi in his elements, turning the charge of communalism on his opponents and unhesitatingly proclaiming the need for Hindus to unite against the threat of discriminatory policies. The interruptions and heckling did not knock him off his stride.“Hindu represents India's nationalism. You will have to pay a price for running down Hinduism,“ he continued.
 
 For much of his long parliamentary career, speeches 
  made in the Lok Sabha did not attract the notice of the commentariat. A diminutive saffron dynamo useful in organising the foot soldiers of the Hindu faith under the wider Sangh umbrella, Yogi was not really part of the   mainstream either. Successive BJP leaderships did not think of including him in NDA ministries since 1998.
 
 Long known as “chotte mahant“ when his mentor Avaidyanath controlled the influential Gorakshpeeth, Adityanath had few friends in Parliament. As he stood awaiting his transport, it was rare for a fellow MP to strike up a conversation. For the obvious influence he wielded as the head of his ancient math, Adityanath did not find Delhi a welcoming place. His street fighter image preceded him and he was very much off most invitation lists.The loner that he is, it perhaps did not matter.
 
 The rapid political churn set off by Modi's win in 2014 has turned the fringe into the mainstream, no less in BJP . Yogi's fortunes changed with the elevation of Amit Shah as BJP chief even if it did not bring immediate gains. As BJP headed to a big majority in UP, 
  that Adityanath best represented the nature of a mandate drawn from a backlash against SP's perceived caste and communal bias and a more normal desire for development. It is by far the boldest -or riskiest -gamble the Modi-Shah duo has taken.
 
 A seemingly eccentric figure, the saffron savant has been a polarising preacher. His advocacy of Hindu interests and the Yuva Vahini he set up made him a popular leader. But he was the “fringe“, someone who the mainstream right found handy , but just that.
 
 He now has an opportunity to script a new innings, almost a third life after the one left behind in Garhwal and the one he has led in Gorakhpur.
 
 
