BHUBANESWAR: Sushma Sahu, a member of the   (NCW), on Friday said the commission will lodge an FIR against Talcher BJD   Braja Kishore Pradhan for allegedly cheating and harassing a woman after developing physical relationship with her. 

 The woman, a librarian in a private college at Banki in Cuttack district, had lodged a complaint with the Mahila police station here on February 13, alleging that the legislator had sexually assaulted her. 
 
 In her complaint, the 30-year-old woman had mentioned that they were married on April 5, 2015, in Jagannath Temple, Puri. 
 
 Pradhan left her in December 2016, and physically tortured her when she demanded social recognition, the woman alleged.
 
 The NCW member, who was on a two-day visit to Odisha, said the police didn't register any case against the MLA. "The police felt that the case had no merit. It's really a very unfortunate incident. I think the police are working under political pressure," Sahu alleged. 
 
 "We will lodge the FIR at the Talcher police station," she added. 
 
 Sahu, while showing bank statements of  , said the MLA has transferred around Rs 6 lakh to the woman's account in phased manner. "The MLA can refute the allegation, but can he deny the bank transactions? Why did he deposit money in her account on a regular basis? It shows his relation with the woman," she added. 
 
 Despite repeated attempts, the 42-year-old MLA was unavailable for comment.
 
 Sahu also mentioned about two other cases and lashed out at police for not taking swift action in the cases. 
 
 BJD supporters had allegedly attacked Parbati Sasmal of Kalikuda village under Erasama police limits in Jagatsinghpur district for handing over a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Bhubaneswar on April 15. The NCW member met Parbati's family members on Thursday and promised them to give her justice. 
 
 The second case is about an acid attack victim of   in Jajpur district. A minor girl was attacked with acid on June 8, 2014.
 
  The main accused was arrested after two years. He soon got bail and started threatening the victim to kill her. "I have asked the police to take stringent action against the accused in women-related cases," she added. 
 
