PATNA: The process of   by different   is likely to be made foolproof soon, with both the   reportedly adopting a tough stand against mushrooming of  . Scores of affiliated colleges may lose their affiliation if they do not fulfil the criteria laid down by the  
 
  Following large-scale complaints received from different quarters, governor-cum-chancellor Ram Nath Kovind had constituted a three-member committee last year to suggest modalities and guidelines for affiliation of only deserving institutions in the larger interest of higher education. The committee consisting of the then vice-chancellors of Nalanda Open University, B R A Bihar University and Tilka Manjhi Bhagalpur University considered all the aspects of affiliation and drafted a comprehensive report suggesting foolproof measures for ensuring proper affiliation. The report was submitted to both the state government and the chancellor in December last year.
  
  It is learnt that the chancellor’s secretariat has circulated the report to all the affiliating universities in the state for their consideration and suggestions, if any, so that a final draft assented to by the governor is sent to all the universities for implementation. The committee is learnt to have based its recommendations taking into consideration the various terms of the UGC (Affiliation of colleges by universities) Regulations, 2009.
  
  Sources in universities confided that there are about 450 affiliated degree colleges in the state, but hardly 100 of them could be called an educational institution. “Most of them are virtually ‘education shops’ where degrees are sold at a premium. There is neither any infrastructure nor qualified teachers in these colleges and consequently students admitted to these colleges are directly sent up for examinations without attending even a single class. The examination results of students are managed by the college authorities as per the pocket of their guardians,” said a source.
  
  The UGC (Affiliation of colleges by universities) Regulations, 2009 categorically provides that any institution seeking affiliation from a university must have undisputed ownership of land not less than two acres in metropolitan cities and five acres in other areas besides administrative, academic and other buildings with sufficient accommodation, adequate library and laboratory facilities, sufficient space for sports and games, common rooms, canteens, health centres and hostels. The college must have also sufficient number of teachers and non-teaching staff as per university norms. Needless to say, only a few affiliated college fulfil the criteria laid down by the UGC, said a source, adding, “It is surprising how these colleges having little or no infrastructural facilities manage to get affiliation from the universities.”
