Even as the 'Baaghi' sequel nudges towards the start, rumours suggest that   will reunite with his 'Heropanti' co-star.   says that she'd love to do a film with her first co-star but it's not happening anytime soon. "I have not been approached for the film. I'm in touch with Tiger and would love to work with him again but we don't meet regularly since half the time we are out of town on our own shoots. I did the 'Beat Pe Booty' video for his film 'A Flying Jatt' though," she says, quick to refute rumours of her signing a new project, including a   production. "After 'Bareily Ki Barfi' there's nothing for now.   is on my wish-list. He's a fantastic actor and I love his work. I also wish to work with Mr   who is a legend."

  
  
 
 The   also wants to pursue horse-riding as a hobby after taking lessons for a month at the Mahalaxmi race course as prep for Dinesh Vijan's 'Raabta'. "Every horse has its own rhythm so when we were filming the horse-riding sequence in Mauritius, I went two-three days ahead of the shoot to bond with the horse," she says.
 
 In 'Raabta' she plays two characters from different worlds. Saira is a modern-day independent, quirky orphan while Saiba is a yesteryear tribal princess, raw and rugged with no references. Saira lives in Budapest and has a chocolate shop. She has nightmares that she has no answers to, is hydro phobic and does the opposite of what she thinks. "That makes her endearing," Kriti smiles. Saiba is the absolute opposite, a fearless warrior princess who belongs to another time. "In her world women aren't treated well but she has been brought up like a boy. In real life, I'm more ladylike but had to remind myself to sit up straight and regal every time the camera rolled," she admits. She adds that co-star   Rajput has been wonderful to work with and they will team up again if the right script comes along.
 
 Known for her glam avatars, Kriti has gone completely de-glam for Bitty in 'Bareilly Ki Barfi' who wears chap pals with socks and over sized pullovers with loose pyjamas or track pants.
 
 "These little things make you feel like you're doing something different and it's worth it," she signs off.
 
  
  
 
 
 
