PATNA: Magadh University   has chalked out a comprehensive plan to improve its academic ambience and quality of research work through a series of lectures on different topics to motivate students.

 The PG department would also organise an annual function this month to felicitate teachers, research scholars and students for achieving excellence in the field of teaching and research work, said PG department of English HoD Rahmat Jahan.
 
 According to Jahan, the department is bringing out a research journal ‘Symphony’ for the first time from March to cater to the needs of teachers and research scholars of the university. This journal will provide an ideal platform for the budding writers and researchers in English to get their articles published in the journal on merit, she said, adding that about 150 students are enrolled to pursue PG course in English.
 
 Jahan said about 50 research scholars have been registered with the department, which is providing easy access to the central and department library for research scholars. Besides, the PG department is also arranging direct interaction of faculty members with the students and research scholars. The department has tied up with   to hold seminars and lectures next month to create interest among students about English language, she said, adding that MU VC   has issued directives to maintain teaching and research quality of the department at any cost.
 
 The department has also proposed a hold UGC sponsored national workshop next month in which students and scholars would be given tips about the new research methodology being adopted in other reputed universities of the country. They would also be taught about the importance of comparative literature which has, of late, gained prominence in literature fields, she said.
 
 The PG department of English is likely to collaborate with foreign countries so that researchers and academics could exchange their views, thoughts and ideas to give a fillip to the new emerging ‘comparative literature’ studies across the globe. Details are being worked out by a team of specialist academics of the department, she said.
 
