The   has ordered reinstatement of an   who was sacked for exposing   of over 40 girls by a teacher.
 
  The court in its order said  , who won the case against her dismissal from   both at the School Tribunal and at the Bombay High Court before it went to the Supereme Court, must be reinstated with immediate effect and paid her full back wages.
  
  The Supreme Court order brings to an end Paul’s over two-year ordeal which drove her to near destitution.
  
  Paul, who trains teachers in prevention of sexual abuse, was the whistle-blower in what could be the country’s biggest child sexual abuse case.
  
  It started with three students approaching her on April 2, 2013 with a complaint against their algebra teacher Yogesh Yadav. The students alleged that Yadav would send them porn clips and touch them inappropriately in the class. On December 17, 2013, another 40 students of the same class made a similar complaint against Yadav.
  
  This time, Paul filed an FIR under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act ( ) at the  . However, instead of supporting her, the school management turned on her, blaming her for keeping them in the dark.
  
  The management claimed it had received a letter from school teachers saying the “FIR against Yadav was based on false complaints and that she had been threatening other teachers with dire consequences if they did not support her.”
  
  The school terminated her services on July 14, 2014 and in a nasty snub to her gave Yadav, who was suspended after an inquiry, his job back on November 14 the same year.
  
  The tables have turned now though. While Paul has got her job back, a charge sheet has been filed against Yadav and he is being tried under POCSO at a lower court.
  
  Paul said since the school did not clear her dues since July 2014, life was a struggle. “My mother is 79, ill and almost blind. I have to pay my debts and daily expenses. After my story was published in Mumbai Mirror last year, many of my former students helped me financially. I am thankful to every person who helped me continue the fight against sexual abuse of my students.”
  
  From January 7 to February 28, when the case was being heard in the Supreme Court in Delhi, Paul stayed at gurudwaras, churches, and at well-wishers’ homes because she could afford a hotel. “What I had during these trying times was the love and affection of people who gave me shelter and food. I used to deliver lectures on prevention child sex abuse on days when there were no hearings.”
  
  In its February 27 order, the Supreme Court said: “The accused teacher Yogesh Yadav has been taken back in service. In the above circumstances, we do not find any justification at all to interfere with the concurrent findings rendered by the School Tribunal and the High Court.”
