BHOPAL: The state government has decided to start a social media campaign to put the lid on consumption of liquor. All avenues like Twitter, Facebook and a dedicated blog would be explored to create awareness among the people.

 Presenting the state   here on Wednesday, finance minister   said that ill-effects of alcohol and stories of how it ruined lives would be shared on Facebook. He said that there would also be a separate Twitter handle for propagating such information. Besides, the government would have a dedicated blog for imparting education on the issue.
 
 The minister said that seminars would be organised while lessons would be included in school and college curriculum to explain that liquor is harmful for one’s health. He told the House that experts would also give lectures on the topic.
 
 Malaiya said that facilities for treatment and de-addiction centres would be started at all district hospitals. He said that a reward scheme would be launched and villages that become “intoxication-free” would be felicitated.
 
 He said that to regulate the consumption of alcohol, a “liquor control” policy has been formulated. He said that the state government has not opened any new liquor shop since 2011 and added that 66 shops falling in the radius of 5 km from Narmada river would be shut from the next fiscal. Similarly, 1,427 shops situated within 500 metres of national and state highways would be shifted.
 
 Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, during his ‘Namami Devi Narmade’ yatra had started a campaign against liquor. In many villages, the CM also administered oath to the villagers to shun alcohol.
 
 However, excise department sources said that after the first round of auctioning of shops in places like Hoshangabad and Harda, the two districts situated on the banks of Narmada, the government revenue went up 15%.
 
 Meanwhile, the state government is also mulling to send teams of officials to the dry states of Bihar and neighbouring Gujarat to understand the impact of prohibition. Sources said that the government might impose prohibition next year when the Assembly elections are due.
 
 
