Mumbai:   Reliance Life Sciences, now in its 15th year since inception, has become the largest player in the world in terms of   (used mainly in  ). Faced with several challenges during its initial years, the company weathered the storm and has been profitable since the financial year 2009-10, its president and CEO   says in an exclusive interview with TOI. “More importantly”, Subramaniam — who has authored a book on learnings from building a tech company from scratch — emphasises on financials to suggest that the company is in a position to generate “sufficient internal resources to fund clinical development”. Surprisingly, he is also perhaps among the few who support price regulation in the sector. Excerpts:

 How has the business grown in terms of value under your leadership, and since inception?
 
 I have had the fortune to be mandated by   to build Reliance Life Sciences from scratch — as a research-driven, integrated, medical biotechnology company. Reliance Life Sciences is a niche biotechnology player with differentiated products used to treat patients in critical care and intensive care settings in hospitals. It is the largest plasma proteins company, has the largest number of biosimilar products in India, the most number of monoclonal antibodies globally, and is developing the largest number of biosimilars worldwide. 
 
 What are the challenges that you faced? 
 
 We faced several challenges. The greatest challenge was in getting the right competencies in the frontier medical biotechnology area. One good decision was to invest in competency development in an institutionalised manner through the not-for-profit Reliance Institute of Life Sciences. We also brought in a culture of shared-learning. The second challenge was to bring about a culture of quality in everything that we do. Constant communication, training programmes, quality discussions and sharing of best practices helped us a great deal.The third challenge was in scaling manufacturing. Today, we regularly run 2,500-litre mammalian cell bioreactors — the largest size reactors run by any company in India. We did have expensive batch failures, but learnt from it. Above all, we had a big challenge to stand on our feet from the year 2008 when promoter funding was no longer available. This was following the global financial meltdown when the Reliance group — like many other companies — had to conserve capital across all group companies. We were required not to take recourse to borrowing. For well over a year, we struggled. But, by keeping a tight rein on costs, focusing on revenue generation and striking a balance between cash generation and deployment for development programmes, we were able to overcome the financial challenge. From 2008, Reliance Life Sciences has banked almost entirely on internal resource generation to fund its operations and investment programmes.
 
 What is the growth in research and development spends? Is research/technology indigenous or sourced from MNCs?
 
 Reliance Life Sciences has been consistently spending 7-8% of its revenues on R&D. All research and development work is carried out by 124 scientists at its 20-acre life sciences campus at Navi Mumbai. This integrated campus houses laboratories covering several disciplines, an animal research centre, clinical research facility and manufacturing plants. All products and process technologies have been developed indigenously and in-house. The only technology licensed from an MNC is a high-expression cell line for biosimilars production.
 
 Please tell us about your book and its theme...
 
 My maiden book — Taking Wings and Winning — seeks to provide perceptive insights into building a new technology business ground-up. Among other aspects, it presents valuable lessons in building competencies, overcoming setbacks, dealing with financial stress and cultivating the character of a company. The narrative untangles biotechnology from its complexity, through anecdotes, metaphors and analogies. The book is interwoven with selective experiences from my personal life to portray how professionals are undeterred by personal misfortunes in their pursuit of business imperatives. It also demonstrates how lack of moorings in the underlying science and technology of any business can be overcome with determined learning and a dogged pursuit of purpose. 
 
 What do you feel about the pricing regulation in India?
 
 I have been positive about pricing regulation in India as it helps affordability of medicines to vast sections of society. Moreover, it helps to focus on price competitiveness, grows the market and acts as a disincentive for opportunistic players in the market. In addition, it brings about a level playing field, by preventing some companies in keeping patient prices high, and incentivising distribution channels and hospitals with high margins. 
 
 Reliance Life Sciences has been on record with   in supporting the price ceiling on albumin when it was announced a few years back. At the same time, it is imperative for the government to critically review the overall cost of several therapies and medical procedures, given that the cost of medicines is only a smaller component of total cost of therapy or procedure.
 
 
