PUNE: The deputy director of education, Pune division, has asked all high school   to assist their respective students with the Standard XI admission process.

 The principals have been asked to fill up part 1 of the   forms for admission, in a bid to mitigate the problems faced by parents. Now, parents will only need to obtain the information booklet and visit the principal of the school where their child studied class X.
 
 The principals have also been asked to verify caste and other certificates necessary for applying under various constitutional and other reservations; for this purpose, they must use their login ID and password. 
 
 For the assistance of students from other boards or from schools outside the municipal corporation limits, various guidance centres will also be made available. The admissions portal will be open on March 24, said a circular issued by the deputy director.
 
 Schools have also been asked to conduct guidance sessions for parents and students between March 30 and April 10, explaining the process of admission. Apart from Pune, Pimpri Chinchwad and Mumbai, online admission process will also be followed in the corporation areas of Nagpur, Amravati, Aurangabad and Nashik.
 
 Admissions to Home Science, Urdu, Telugu, Gujarati, and Hindi media, and night schools will be done at the college level in Pune division. There will be nine zones marked out within the Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporation limits for a centralized admission process.
 
 It is mandatory for students to fill the   for quotas such as in-house, minority and management. Students are also required to use the login ID and password mentioned on the information booklet.
 
 A detailed schedule will be available on the official admissions website by the end of April. The school has to take signatures of all those present at the guidance programs, and submit the record to the zonal centre.
 
 In case parents have any complaints, the respective school principal will be held responsible. Part 2 of the online admission form must be filled by the students after the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education declares online the results for class X board exams. 
 
 By April 10, schools have to submit a report on the number of information booklets required, based on the number of students who appeared for class X exams — regular, repeaters and via form No. 17.
 
