CHENNAI: The factional feud between chief minister   and the T T V Dhinakaran factions spilled into Lakshmipuram, a village, dominated by  , close to OPS turf Periyakulam and Theni.

 The issue under dispute is an irrigation well, located close to the foothills of the western ghats, owned by Vijayalakshmi, wife of  , who heads the AIADMK (Puratchithalaivi) faction and a resident of nearby Periyakulam. There are 10 other wells of various farmers, dug up in small private land parcels of 10 to 20 cents, supplying water to their farms through pipelines.
 
 Lakshmipuram faces drinking water shortage for at least three to four months every year and residents usually draw water from these wells for drinking water purpose. The shortage was acute this year. While the panchayat wells have gone dry, the farm wells too are getting water just enough for two hours of motor supply.
 
 Instead of seeking water from the farmers, residents have blocked roads and staged other forms of protests and a hunger strike on Wednesday to demand that Vijayalakshmi either gift-deed her well or sell it to the village panchayat. “Only after this giant well was dug, we are facing severe water shortage and even now only this well has enough water,” a local resident told TOI over phone.
 
 But, this is disputed by another  , Subburaj who represented the OPS family in the peace committee meeting held on Tuesday by government revenue officials. Village elders and farmer representatives attended. “Even other wells have water. The villagers did not accept the offer of water from farmers and stuck to their demand and walked out of the meeting,” Subburaj told TOI.
 
 “It is the responsibility of the government to ensure drinking water supply and the local MLA is nowhere to be seen. But, the residents are insisting on this land. We suspect a clear political design behind this demand,” he added.
 
 While OPS represents Bodinayakanur constituency in the assembly, his political rival in the Dhinakaran camp, Thangathamilselvan, who had a running feud with OPS even in the united AIADMK, represents Andipatti assembly segment. Periyakulam AIADMK MLA, Dr Kathirkamu is also with the Dhinakaran faction.
 
 “If water is the issue and the land owners have come forward to permit the residents to draw the required water, what is the rationale in unduly pressurizing this particular owner to gift or sell that piece of land. There is a clear political agenda to discredit our leader OPS,” said  , media co-ordinator, Team OPS.
 
