HYDERABAD: Ten days after a paralytic patient made a dramatic entry into   on a tricycle after being denied a wheelchair, the state-run hospital again shot into hall of shame after 12 children were allegedly administered 'expired' antibiotics, triggering temporary loss of motor skills. The children suffered bouts of seizures and began vomiting. 

  Family members alleged the kids were injected with amoxicillin clavulanate and potassium clavulanate antibiotics from expired vials around 7.30 pm on Saturday to treat bacterial infections and fever. Within 20 minutes, they began vomiting and had sudden seizures. Hospital authorities said, the drug supplier, Uttaranchal-based Maxmed Life Sciences Pvt Ltd, is being probed. After back-to-back controversies, the government swung into action and suspended two staff nurses and one doctor of the hospital. 
 
 As alarm bells rang, hospital brass swiftly moved the children to ICU and said precautions were being taken. "After the doctor gave an injection to my grandson, he suffered loose motions and began vomiting. He was also unable to move his limbs. We came here for better healthcare, but negligence by hospital staff has left us shocked," said Rahmat Bano, grandmother of a child,  . Parents claimed their children were wrongly diagnosed by on-duty doctor.
 
 Although the administration claimed only 12 children were affected, parents say number of kids who fell ill were more.
 
 "The nurses who administered injections did not even check the expiry date on vials. My son suffered from diarrhoea, high fever and vomiting soon after the antibiotic was given," said Shailaja, mother of Zohail, whose name too was missing from the list.
 
 Telangana health minister   said he was looking into allegations levelled by parents. Director of medical education, M Ramani said an external inquiry was underway and a report would be submitted on Monday evening.
 
 While the doctor on duty,  , was issued a memo, staff nurses Shobha and Sunita will remain suspended and quizzed on Monday by the external probe committee.
 
 DME M Ramani, denied allegations and claimed the antibiotics administered to the children were brought from outside and not supplied by the state government. 
 
 "The stock given to us comes with a stamp, 'Telangana government supply' and also has a 'not-for-sale' seal. We smell a plot as vials displayed by parents are not from the government stock," said Ramani.
 
 With two consecutive incidents hitting the government-run hospital, the administration is planning to impose restrictions to avoid mismanagement.
 
 "We receive over 4,000 people, including patients and attendants on daily basis. Crowd management at the hospital is getting difficult and we will soon impose restrictions on number of attendants with every patient," said Ramani.
 
 
