We’re still heatedly discussing Bengaluru, because images of women being assaulted are too hard to ignore. The ubiquitous CCTV camera is increasingly pushing such episodes into our faces, popping up on our FB feed or running for hours on TV. When the public refuses to forget, the system is forced to act, or so we hope.

 
  
  
 In news that shocked Delhi in September, a 21-year-old teacher was stabbed 30 times by her 34-year-old stalker on a busy road in Burari as onlookers stood paralysed. After she stopped moving, he picked up a rock to bash her head, and then walked to his bike unchallenged. He was her neighbour and had been harassing her for five months. Her family had filed a police complaint, but the police claimed that the families had reached a ‘compromise’. The savage attack was captured on CCTV cameras, and he was arrested.
 
  
  
 CCTV cameras caught the brazen abduction of a woman while she was standing outside her PG accommodation in Bengaluru. The video shows a man walking up to the woman, who was talking on the phone, grabbing her from behind and carrying her to a secluded spot, where she was allegedly molested. The 25-year-old woman alleged that the police took no action against the accused and even refused to register a complaint. The cops eventually registered a case after the woman was forced to produce the CCTV footage. The footage clearly showed people walking on the same street from where she was abducted, but nobody came forward to help her.
 
  
  
 An eight-year-old girl who was sleeping outside her house along with her family was abducted and raped in outer Delhi’s Aman Vihar in May. The incident of abduction was caught on a CCTV camera installed in a nearby lane. The footage showed a man carrying the girl through the lane with his hand on her mouth. The accused was arrested after he was identified through the CCTV footage.
 
  
  
 This was a rare case of passersby intervening in a public assault that led to the perpetrator being chased and caught. In August 2015, an Uzbek woman walking in a residential area in Malviya Nagar at 10pm was approached from behind by a man who tried to snatch her phone, hitting and punching her repeatedly in the process. Hearing her screams, teens from a local football team – the Malviya Nagar Maniacs – jumped the adjacent park’s walls and chased after the goon, and some time later, they found him and dragged him back to the spot. News of the incident became public only a few weeks later when the CCTV footage emerged, and it made front page headlines. Ironically, the boys said they were reprimanded by a few elders who had gathered, who told them not to get ‘involved in such things’.
 
  
  In an interview to Delhi Times in 2016, Vidya Balan had this to say
 
  
  
 TV journalist Manashree Pathak was molested and attacked by unidentified persons while she was covering a cylinder blast accident in Santacruz. Pathak, along with her cameraman Narayan Parmar, were stopped from covering the incident. When they protested, the goons molested, abused and hit Pathak. The other journalists who intervened were attacked as well, and a case was registered with the police. Footage of the incident shows agitated people arguing with mediapersons and in the mayhem, the woman reporter was assaulted by a man. Some locals also tried to restrain the man. The footage was shot on a mobile phone by a bystander.
 
  
  
 On July 9, 2012, in Guwahati, Assam, a teenage girl returning home after attending a birthday party was molested by a mob outside a bar, and the incident was filmed. The video went viral, triggering widespread protests. Many of the men were subsequently arrested and convicted based on the video footage of the crime. A local TV journalist, who reportedly shot the video, was accused of instigating the mob and arrested, but was later acquitted.
 
  
  
 On October 12, 2013, a college student was sexually harassed in the Bangalore Metro by four men who made lewd remarks and gestures. The CCTV video from the Metro’s cameras also showed the girl and another woman calling out to a guard at a station, but the guard didn’t move. The Metro later said that law and order was the police’s responsibility, and they can just assist by providing CCTV footage.
 
  
  
 CCTV footage showed a few goons molesting a girl in broad daylight on a busy street. The girl walked out of college and two men started following her, and one grabbed her while the other snatched her phone. While she was being molested, no one intervened and finally, a shopkeeper walked out and reprimanded the boys. But they returned with more friends and assaulted the only one who had bothered to help.
 
 
