Gurgaon: It’s not even peak summer yet, but tankers have already been put into service in many residential societies of new and old Gurgaon, to fulfil water needs of residents facing severe cuts over the weekend.

 Taps ran dry in many   sectors, including 21, 22, 23, 39, 40, 42, 43, 45,   I and Prem Nagar in old Gurgaon, on Saturday and Sunday, with pipelines being shifted for underpass construction on the national highway.
 
 “Water supply has been hit since Saturday. We didn’t get a drop of water in the last 48 hours. I had to wash clothes, water my garden and do other chores over the weekend. After waiting for water for about 36 hours, we called in tankers on Sunday,” said  , a resident of Sector 40.
 
 Sudhir Sachdeva, a resident of Sushant Lok I, said a similar situation prevailed in the area. “Huda has been supplying water with low pressure over the past few days. On top of that, defunct booster pumps in Sushant Lok I are making matters worse. The water shortage that earlier hit Block C, has now engulfed blocks A and B. We don’t know how long will we have to bear with the problem,” Sachdeva said. 
 
 “There is acute water shortage in our area. Spending huge amounts on water tankers has now become routine for us,” said colonel Omed Singh, RWA president of Sector 22.
 
 Residents have blamed civic authorities for not making alternative arrangements for water supply. “Since January, water supply has been hit due to construction of the underpass. Neither MCG, nor Huda has made arrangements for water tankers. The situation is worsening by the day as temperatures keep rising,” said Rekha Tiwari, a resident of Sector 45.
 
 Huda officials said supply was halted on Saturday for about 10 hours due to shifting of a master water pipeline from Iffco Chowk. “Water supply was halted for 10 hours on Saturday to areas where water is supplied from Sector 16 boosting station, as the pipeline was being shifted from   due to construction of the underpasses. But supply was resumed on Sunday, so there shouldn’t be any shortage now,” said a Huda official, requesting anonymity.
 
 Water shortage has been prevalent in the city since last week of January, when master pipelines began to be shifted to facilitate construction of underpasses on Delhi-Gurgaon expressway. Reportedly, the pipelines pass through important junctions on the expressway, including Iffco Chowk, Signature Tower, Rajiv Chowk and Hero Honda Chowk.
 
