PUNE: The state government has removed the Special Planning Authority (SPA) status of   to officially hand it over to the Pune Metropolitan Regional Development Authority ( ).

 This implies that approval to any development in the hill station project will be cleared by the PMRDA. Sources in the government said chief minister   has signed the new arrangement, making PMRDA the official authority and extending its jurisdiction.
 
 Confirming the development, PMRDA chief Kiran Gitte told TOI that they were ready to take over the planning and regulate the entire development once the government issued the resolution.
 
 The planned hill station on the Western Ghats on the banks of Baji Pasalkar reservoir is being developed by the real estate development arm of Ajit Gulabchand's Hindustan Construction Company Ltd (HCC).
 
 Principal secretary (urban development department) Nitin Kareer told TOI that the PMRDA was first notified in 2015 about this and renotified under the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) Act in 2016. “The notification clearly states that there should be only one planning authority for a particular area.Naturally , the SPA status of   was removed. It is a legal and technical procedure that was completed,“ he said.
 
 Gitte said the SPA status accorded to Lavasa under the Maharashtra Regional Town Planning (MRTP) Act has been denotified and the PMRDA will now become the sole aut hority as “two authorities cannot exist in the same jurisdiction.“
 
 Lavasa corporation falls within the extended limits of the PMRDA. The SPA status was given to the private hill station project in 2008.
 
 TC Benjamin, a retired senior bureaucrat from the urban development department, said bringing Lavasa under the state government “is a good move as it will ensure that development is strictly as per the rules and does not hamper environment concerns“. He said, “It will ensure more transparency in terms of development and environment will be preserved in a much better way.“
 
 Activist Vishwambhar Chaudhari said it took them eight years to get the SPA status scrapped and it was a good move as the state government will take complete control of Lavasa. “Environment committees had expressed concerns about the project, and so had the Comptroller and Audi tor General (CAG) and the   (PAC) of the state government. Under the MRTP Act, there cannot be any discriminations in terms of sanctions,“ he said.
 
 An HCC spokesperson told TOI that they had not received any formal letter from the government. “We understand that we have to approach PMRDA for clearance of any development plan from the media. We have not got anything in written so far,“ he said.
 
