Yavatmal: The death of 35-year-old Ravi Rathod in   and hospital here on Tuesday at last shook the administration. Rathod, a farmer from   in Yavatmal district, was the seventh person to die due to exposure to toxic pesticides. District collector, agriculture department and zilla parishad officials are on their toes trying to take corrective measures to avoid more such deaths.

 There were four deaths in August and so far three in September. On Wednesday, zilla parishad vice-president Shyam Jaiswal was in GMC along with  , the district superintending agriculture officer N M Kolapakar, BJP city president   and agriculture development officer D R Kalsit from morning trying to know why so many farmers were affected by pesticide poisoning this year.
 
 Jaiswal felt a single pesticide used particularly by the farmers was to blame. Though he said all the affected persons were farm labourers who mostly do the spraying job, TOI found a majority of admitted patients were farmers. “Until we get data of the actual chemical and places where they were used, we are asking Krishi Kendras to stop sale of all pesticides. We are telling farmers not to use combination products. We are telling them to use protective gear during spraying,” he said.
 
 District collector   told TOI though he was out of town he had instructed the agriculture department to take educative measures. “I have also instructed the civil surgeon and the district health officer to ensure the farmers know the dos and don’ts of pesticide use. I am expecting a detailed report in a day or two,” he said.
 
  is trying its best to cope with the situation but wards are overloaded and doctors overburdened. The college dean Dr Ashok Rathod claimed there were ten ventilators (more than any other GMC), they were not enough for the large number of patients pouring in every day. The college may need the help of other medical colleges and doctors.
 
 Dr Rathod stated they got such patients every year from August to October. He didn’t have the required data on the patients despite reports appearing in media for the last few days. “I am collecting the data. The situation is surely bad this year. The number of patients has increased manifold but we are yet to analyse and segregate patients of consumption and inhalation,” he said.
 
