BHOPAL: Here’s a cop, who literally carries his office back home after working beyond duty hours every day. Thanks to his department that robbing posted his home phone number in place of Baghsewania police station’s some 10 years ago. He has been pleading for it to be removed from the police website but in vain.

 Almost every night,   calmly receives phone calls from complainants. He has a BSNL landline connection 2677422 at his Nehru Nagar residence, which is mentioned on bhopalpolice.com/officerslist, leading to at least a dozen phone calls every day. “The phone connection has become a headache for me,” said the cop posted at police lines, adding that he has submitted several applications in the last 10 years to get the number updated to 2443820, which connects with  .
 
 Chauhan is not the only sufferer. Sajid Khan, who runs a transport company at Dawa Bazar, Hamidia road, shares his woes. His landline number 2749834 is displayed as the number of Chhola Mandir police station on the   website. “We keep receiving calls from the ASP’s office and control room daily. So far I thought it is was a network problem, but now I must file a complaint with police to resolve this problem,” Khan said. 
 
 It’s the same with head constable Jasram Singh, whose cellphone number (7049106188) has been uploaded on the website as the Ashoka Garden police station contact number. “I was transferred from Ashoka Garden to TT Nagar thana a year ago. But my number was not changed. For the past year I have been receiving calls from different people in the name of Ashoka Garden. I am practically handling two police stations due to the phone number. I have complained at the control room many times but no one takes any action.”
 
 Chauhan knows this frustration all too well. “There is no end to calls. My home phone rings round-the-clock. The calls often start early in the morning and go on till 2am the next day. Most of the callers are from ASP office, journalists and people seeking redress at the police station,” he said.
 
 “I want to get this number disconnected, but it is very difficult as this number is attached to our internet, bank accounts and gas cylinder account,” he said. Chauhan has tried everything to get his number changed but in vain. “In fact, I went to the police control room to prepare a new chart with the changed number but it has not been uploaded on the website,” he said.
 
 Some calls are scary, he admits. “Some calls pertain to medical legal case and the queries are mainly of accidents deaths. I feel bad,” he said. 
 
 “Due to these continuous calls, sometimes we have to disconnect the landline after 11pm so that at least we can sleep peacefully,” Chauhan said, adding: “My wife and children have heard of almost every type of crime. Initially, when the phone was installed, my children use to get scared by these strange calls. Sometimes my wife panics when the person on the other side starts informing about ghastly crimes and deaths but now we all are used to it.”
 
 Manish Bhatnagar, proprietor of Xcelcom services, which maintains the website of Bhopal Police, said: “We receive a list from crime branch about any changes and we follow it.” Pushpendra, a crime branch officer who informs the IT company about phone number changes, promised to get the changes done on the website “as soon as possible.”
 
