VADODARA: The major razing drive around the railway station area has left heritage lovers in the city concerned about the fate of the   located behind the Pathik Bhavan that the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) is planning to raze.

 Though there is no immediate plan to raze it, the razing of adjacent Pathik Bhavan has triggered fear that this building too might be brought down.
 
 Much like the Pathik Bhavan, the Damajirao Dharamshala is in the possession of the Vadodara district panchayat. The dharamshala was constructed around 150 years back during the reign of   and the present structure was built by the Maharaja Sayajirao Gaekwad III.
 
 The lodge, which was once buzzing with activity with those working in the railways and travellers, is in a rundown condition. “Maharaj Ganpatrao had constructed the building essentially to facilitate the stay of officials working for the Bombay, Baroda and Central India Railway. Maharaja Khanderao had added some rooms and other facilities to it. After the work on railways got over, it was used by travellers,” said Jeetendrasinh Gaekwad, great grandnephew of Maharaja Sayajirao III.
 
 Jeetendrasinh added that it was Sayajirao who constructed the present structure around 1875. He pointed out that since the time of Maharaja Ganpatrao, the structure was named after Maharaja Damajirao Gaekwad.
 
 Art historian Chandrashekhar Patil said that the dharamshala is the only building in the city named after Damajirao. It has been built in the Indo-Saracenic style of architecture that was widely used during the reign of Sayajirao III.
 
 “Damajirao had conquered the better part of Gujarat and brought it under the Gaekwadi rule. After the murder of Pilajirao Gaekwad in 1732, the city had gone under the control of the sultans. But Damajirao conquered it again and became the first ruler of the Gaekwad dynasty in the true sense,” said Patil.
 
 VMC commissioner Dr   said that the structure was not hazardous and its stability would be examined. “We may even keep it intact,” said Rao.
 
 
