MUMBAI: The 51st match of IPL-10 between   and Kings XI Punjab on Thursday saw both teams collectively notch up a whopping 453 runs in 40 overs. Punjab, who are battling on valiantly to keep their play-offs hopes alive, prevailed by seven runs.

 But, the brutal assault on bowlers on a muggy evening at the Wankhede prompted MI offspinner   to tweet after the match: "Man of the match @ wankhede #curator almost 460 plus runs in 40 overs. Time is near when only bowling machines will be bowling not bowlers."
 
 
  
 
 The veteran off-spinner was carted for 45 runs in three overs, and his frustration was justified given the nightmare that all the front line bowlers from both teams, with the exception of Jasprit Bumrah, were subjected to by   (93 runs), Glenn Maxwell (47),   (59) and   (50*).
 
 Pollard, who kept the hosts interested till the very end said at the post-match press conference: "It was a great game of cricket from both sides. We call it (Wankhede track) a bowler's graveyard."
 
 A cursory look at this year's competition shows that there have been eight matches in which teams batting first have gone on to amass scores of over 200. Then, there are 11 matches in which teams batting first have notched up 180-plus scores, with many of them failing to defend even such healthy totals.
 
 So, is there any relief in sight for the hapless bowlers, who are anyways battling heavy odds to succeed in this cruel format?
 
 "Too much of anything is bad. I agree that runs should be scored in T20. After all, that's what most people want to see. But, players deserve a level playing field so that they can put up their best performance," spinner   told TOI on Friday.
 
 "It's a result of the brutal hitting by batsmen, flat tracks and shortened boundaries, that many spinners, who are competing in the  , are resorting to yorkers, faster one and deliveries like that.
 
 "How many bowlers have you seen who are bringing into play the classical spinner's craft? It's because of the heavy tilt that exists in favour of the batsmen that spinners are wary of tossing up the ball, imparting flight and drawing the batsmen onto the front foot," explained the spinner.
 
 Nevertheless, former India wicketkeeper Vijay Dahiya, who has been a coach with Kolkata Knight Riders in the past, reckons that this is the reality of the times and something that players need to get accustomed to. "There's nothing alarming with the kind of runs that are being scored. I would call it a state of progression," he said. "Look at the overall improvement that one is witnessing, be it the level of fielding, the quality of catching, the kind of running between wickets," he added.
 
 
