Mumbai: Telecom, which was at one point a major talent puller, is witnessing a muted growth in hiring as a result of the major consolidation drive in the industry. First, the RCom and   merger and now the  . Hiring experts said this could lead to redundancies and a possible reverse flow of talent to sectors like   and pharma. Aditya Birla Group’s director - HR, Santrupt Misra, however, thinks otherwise.

 Misra, who will play an important role in overseeing the people part of the Idea-Vodafone merger — the combined strength of which will be 20,000 — does not expect an impact on manpower. “The impact on manpower will be next to nothing given the natural attrition of 8-10% per annum in the run up to the regulatory approval for the merger, which will take about 12-18 months. Surplus manpower will not even be 300 people by the time we get approval for the merger. At the same time, we will be growing into adjacent lines of business, such as Wi-Fi and payment banking. Talent will be redeployed across these lines of businesses,” Misra told TOI.
 
 Hiring agencies TOI spoke to said a section of employees are already on the “look out”. Rituparna Chakraborty, EVP & Co-founder, Teamlease, said, “The first principle of an M&A is to draw synergies and make the entity bottomline accretive. There will be overlaps and it will lead to redundancies.”
 
 A G Rao, Group MD, ManpowerGroup Services India said: “Hiring in the telecom sector is currently muted. This follows the consolidation that is taking place in the industry, resulting in a reduction in the number of players. Six months ago, hiring in telecom was in single digits. Over the next few quarters, we do not see much hiring growth coming from telecom.”
 
 Rao said while there could be a reverse flow of non-technical talent into sectors like FMCG and pharma, this would be largely restricted to marketing and sales. “For the technical talent, there would be a bit of a struggle,” said Rao.
 
 Moorthy K Uppaluri, MD & CEO, Randstad India, said, “Hiring is expected to remain stable till the integration process is complete, after which we are expecting job cuts owing to duplication of functions across the country. There will be optimisation across both frontline sales and support functions like finance, HR and other corporate roles. Overall, close to 20-40% of support function roles are expected to be at risk.”
 
 Uppaluri, however, said in 2017, owing to the growing adoption of 4G services, there is an expectation of growth in demand for all roles across the hierarchy for technical and network related job profiles.
 
 The next 12-18 months would be critical for the Idea-Vodafone merger. A cultural fitment is a precursor to a successful merger. Misra does not expect any cultural issues with respect to the Idea-Vodafone merger. “The   has a good track record of handling such M&As and have successfully managed such transitions (Birla-AT&T-Tata,  ,  , for instance). There will be no cultural miss-match even though Vodafone is an MNC, because the people who work for the company are Indians who would have worked with some or the other Indian company in the past. Moreover, it’s a new entity that we are creating and the culture will be built from scratch by learning from each other’s best practices,” said Misra.
 
 
