GREATER NOIDA: A security guard’s fingers were chopped off by three men on Friday evening for allegedly not giving them directions to a place he didn’t know about. The three men, who came in a car, chopped off three fingers of   (25) in a bizarre episode in   village in Greater Noida.

 The victim was admitted to a private hospital following which he was referred to a Delhi hospital. A native of   in Delhi, Anil worked as a security   at Gulshan Homz at Sector 137, Noida, which is wi thin Surajpur (Greater Noida) police station limits.
 
 Abhay Singh, Anil’s brother, said that Anil had gone to the market to buy some vegetables when a red Maruti Alto approached him around 8pm. 
 
 “There was a driver and two other occupants in the car. They asked my brother for directions to Kulesra village. As my brother did not know the way he told them so,” Abhay said.
 
 Abhay said that the car occupants probably did not like his reply and struck up a conversation with Anil. “Telling Anil they could provide him a better job than that of a security guard’s, they made him get into their car and drove away. When my brother realised he was being kidnapped, he insisted he be let off the car. In a scuffle that followed, one of the accused suffered minor injuries to his nose,” Abhay said.
 
 The accused were infuriated and drove the vehicle away to a deserted location. “There in an open field, they chopped off three fingers of my brother’s left hand with a fodder-cutting machine that was lying there,” Abhay said. Profusely bleeding from his finger stubs, Anil cried out for help and some locals took him to Felix Hospital, Sector 137. 
 
 The accused had fled the spot before a police team, which arrived after being informed of the incident.
 
 Dr D K Gupta, MD, Felix Hospital, said the patient was admitted in the hospital on Friday night. 
 
 “The orthopedic surgeon examined the patient and administered medicines. The patient was then referred to Delhi, on his family’s request,” he said.
 
 The police, however, said they had reservations about the victim’s narrative. Love Kumar, SSP GB Nagar, said it might have something to do with a feud between the two sides. 
 
 “The victim said the assailants were not known to him. We have registered a case and are investigating the matter. But some of the facts stated by the victim need to be verified. We need to know how and why he took a lift in the car driven by unknown persons,” the SSP said.
 
 Kumar said that based on the complaint, a case of voluntarily causing hurt and wrongful confinement under sections 326 and 342 of IPC has been registered against unknown persons at Surajpur police station.
 
 
