 PANAJI: A rumour circulating on social media regarding the legitimacy of Rs 10 coins has resulted in conductors of   operating through the Panaji bus terminus refusing to accept the tender. Those on the state-run Kadamba Transport Corporation Limited (KTCL), however, continue to accept the currency.
 
 The situation was prompted by a message circulated on the messaging service WhatsApp stating that the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has declared the Rs 10 coin invalid.
 
 “We heard that duplicate coins are flooding the market and banks have demonetized even the real ones. The bus owners instructed us not to accept the coin,” said Nilesh Gadekar, a bus conductor on the  
 
 “Initially, some of us ignored the message, but, slowly, since most other conductors began to discontinue acceptance of these coins, we did too,” said another bus conductor  .
 
 Asked if they have received any notification from their respective banks or even the RTO instructing them not accept these coins, they answered in the negative.
 
 KTCL bus conductors are still accepting the coins. “After we realized that our counterparts in the private bus sector are not accepting Rs 10 coins, we checked with our respective banks. They have told us that the news about their demonetization is false,” said KTCL conductor Suresh Govekar.
 
 “The KTCL authorities have not written to us asking us to discontinue its acceptance, thus, we haven’t stopped our commuters from paying the fare with the coin,” said another KTCL conductor,  
 
 TOI also checked with businessmen on the Panaji bus stand. Most are still accepting coins of the denomination though a few have given into their fears.
 
 “If the coin really has been demonetized and there is also   circulating in the market, there really is no point in continuing to accept it,” said owner of a superstore, Hamid Issani.
 
 Navelim-based newspaper vendor Suraj Naik said, “My customers suddenly stopped accepting Rs 10 coins saying that the bus conductors are not accepting them, leaving me with no choice but to refuse these coins from my clients. I have already made a couple of deposits of such coins worth Rs 2,000 and Rs 5,000 earlier in two other nationalized banks.”
 
 RBI said that the Rs 10 coin has not been demonetised and that it continues to be in circulation. 
 
 (With inputs from Gary Azavedo)
 
 
