When you call an actor — who is also a multiple state and national-award winning director — for an interview and he misses your call, you make a mental note to call him again. But when he calls back immediately and even apologizes for missing your call, you get a fair idea of how grounded and friendly he is, despite his celeb stature and long list of laurels. The actor is none other than Kollywood star R  , who is making his debut in Kannada cinema with  .
The title of the film, directed by   of   fame, has been inspired by the 1988   film Dada, but bears no resemblance to the story. In this, Parthiepan plays the role of a dada with panache, and his lack of Kannada knowledge doesn’t seem to come in the way. “I’ve never considered language a barrier in acting. It’s true I can’t converse in Kannada, but I know enough to realize when it’s being spoken. In fact, I insisted on learning the language and dubbing in my own voice in the film because it will suit the character better. I had been contemplating about working in Sandalwood to spread a positive political message — of love, friendship and exchange of talent — when this offer came along. Hence, I lapped it up. On top of that, when a director like Santhosh, who’s quite different from the rest, expressed his wish to cast me in his film, it felt right to support him. And I’m happy with the decision, because he’s hardworking, full of ideas and always eager to learn. He has created an expectation for the film all by himself.”
 For a seasoned actor like him, making a debut in a new film industry is just an extension of the mindset and persona he has in Kollywood. “I keep telling myself this — underline your presence. If I have been chosen for a particular role, there is a reason for it and I do my best to make that reason known through my acting. I’m very particular about doing justice to a role I’ve been chosen for because I respect the filmmaker and the audience a lot — the former for putting his or her trust in me, and the latter for expecting me to live up to it. My entire career so far, I have focused more on earning a reputation as a good actor and director, than on making good money. That is what keeps me approachable and grounded, and that is probably also why people come up to me and say that even after so many years in the film industry, I have the enthusiasm of a newcomer.”
 Parthiepan is also a critically-acclaimed director whose films have won national and state awards. Does it become challenging for him to remove his director’s hat while acting in someone else’s film? “To be honest, I’ve learnt to become a better actor off screen. What I mean by that is earlier, I used to be open and vocal about my likes and dislikes. But that didn’t go down well with everybody, so nowadays, especially while acting in films that are directed by others, I mask my views. What I do instead, is to give my suggestions through actions and acting, rather than words. If the director is smart, they get the hint. Another way I avoid interfering in the filmmaking process as an actor, is by not seeing the monitor after every take – that way, my opinion as to how good or bad it was is limited, and I let the director call the shots. However, when it comes to preparing for a role, and nailing the right look for a character, I give my inputs because ultimately, I need to feel comfortable in the skin of the character.”
 So, is there any aspect of his own acting that he loves the most? “Subtlety has always been an important part of my acting, and even direction. It often goes unnoticed but one that I enjoy a lot.” Could that be one of the reasons why many of his acclaimed films, both as actor and director, have not won the awards that they deserved? “Today, I’m more about how to interpret not winning an award, than winning one. When a film that’s close to my heart doesn’t receive any recognition, I don’t consider it a failure. I am reminded of what music maestro Ilayaraja once said – “If you have an award to give away but no nominees are worthy of it, what do you do with it? Does the award go for waste or do you give it to someone anyway?” So an award by itself is of no use, if there aren’t enough deserving products. That’s why I focus on creating content that’s rich and award-worthy, but not too worried about winning awards for it,” he says. “Sometimes, I do conjure up awards function in my mind and in them, my movies always do a clean sweep,” adds Parthiepan with a chuckle.
 
