VADODARA: A city-based organization, Samvitta Foundation launched its event Pallavita to encourage   to express themselves through writing, painting, cinema and other art forms. At least 200 people attended the event’s inauguration at CC Mehta auditorium here on Sunday. 

 The event was attended by the Who's Who of Vadodara literary circuit. M S University chancellor   too attended the event which was presided over by Gujarat governor  . Former vice-chancellor of MSU Lord Bhikhu Parekh addressed the gathering through a video message. 
 
 The idea for Samvitti was conceived when 18 female inmates of Vadodara central jail were provided a week long workshop to express their emotions on canvas in March 2017. The inmates painted on the theme ‘family’. 
 
 Interestingly, this workshop was a follow-up of a similar workshop that was held in August 2011 with the male inmates. The workshop was an attempt to bridge the chasm that exists between the inmates and society at large.
 
 First trustee, managing committee of   said, women can be brought at par with society with the help of education and capacity building and this was an attempt to make that possible.
 
  Echoing her sentiments, Amit Dholakia, another first trustee of the managing committee, said, language and art can awaken many emotions in women and it is important that they are provided a platform for the same.
 
 The organization will hold workshops, exhibitions and lectures as well as develop their online footprint through websites. 
 
 An e-journal Urvura, which will be a peer-review based magazine, will encourage women as well as men to contribute analytical and critical write-ups, poems and essays to it.
 
 Gaekwad said, “The purpose of the organization is to cut across barriers and reach out to women throughout the social spectrum and encourage them to contribute to literature. Despite being a literature student, I always regretted that I could not pursue my passion in this field. Women will have the chance to find their voice by writing, acting, painting, composing, thanks to this organization.”
 
 
