CHENNAI: The   on Sunday extended the term of appointment for the   governing urban and rural local bodies in the state since October 24 by a further six months until June 30.

 The amendment notification for urban local bodies was made under the provision of Section 375 B of the Tamil Nadu District Municipalities Act, 1920 while for the rural local bodies, the amendment was issued invoking Section 261-A of the  , 1994.
 
 “...for the expression until the 31st day of December 2016, the expression until the 30th day of June 2017 shall be substituted,“ read the gazette notification issued by K Phanindra Reddy , secretary , municipal administration and water supply department and Hans Raj Verma, secretary , rural development and panchayat raj department.
 
 For the city, this means that D Karthikeyan, presently the commissioner of Greater Chennai Corporation, will continue to hold charge as Special Officer until further notice. In the rural areas, assistant directors, executive officers and block development officers will continue as special officers in their respective town and village panchayats.
 
 The administrative control of 12,943 rural local bodies and 664 urban local bodies was handed over to special officers after the Madras high court quashed the September 26 poll notification issued by the Tamil Nadu State Election Commission. On September 27, the ruling AIADMK managed to beat its rivals by releasing the complete list of candidates contesting the direct polls for various urban and rural local bodies across the state.
 
 The poll notification was challenged by DMK Rajya Sabha MP R S Bharathi.Passing orders on his writ plea, Justice N Kirubaka ran on October 4 observed that the commission had acted in “unwanted hurry .“
 
 Bharathi contended that the poll notification was issued at short notice and that it paved way for the ruling party to influence the conduct of polls.
 
 While the single judge order prescribed fresh notification and completion of election process by December 31, the state election commission filed a plea opposing the order and contending that setting aside the notification had resulted in “grave miscarriage of justice.“
 
 When the appeal came up for hearing on December 7 before a division bench, the plea was adjourned for hearing after Pongal holidays in January 2017, which automatically meant that the state would not witness local body polls in December. As a result, the government has opted to extend the terms of special officers.
 
