GURUGRAM: Affordable housing is likely to get a further boost in Gurgaon, with Union finance minister Arun Jaitley proposing to give the segment ‘infrastructure’ status in his Budget speech on Wednesday. ‘Infrastructure’ status for affordable housing has been a long-pending demand of the realty sector and builders say the segment will attract more investment leading to availability of more houses for low and middle-income groups.

 Haryana government had come up with the Affordable Group Housing Policy in 2013 under which 300 acres of land was reserved for affordable housing in Gurgaon. 
 
 Till now, the government has given 135 licenses for 162 acres on which 29,160 affordable housing units are under construction in the city.
 
 “Now the sector will be eligible for various incentives. Proposals like reduction of holding period for the purposes of long-term capital gains tax from three years to two years and changing the base rate of indexation to April 2001 shall provide the necessary respite to property owners, also making property an attractive investment option,” said Sanjay Malhotra, CEO of Emaar India.
 
 “It is a great push for the government’s ‘Housing for All’ scheme and will also benefit the first-time buyers,” said Sumit Berry, managing director of BDI Group.
 
 Anil Bansal, director (urban  ), IPE Global, said the additional refinancing of Rs 20,000 crore from National Housing Bank will boost the current housing supply and stock.
 
  “It will help lower housing interest rates resulting from increased liquidity in the banking sector. 
 
 Developers will get preferential and lower borrowing rates from banks; long-term financing will reduce the cost of construction, allowing developers to pass on the benefits to end consumers.”
 
 “This, in turn, will allow better access to institutional financing, higher limit on external borrowings, attracting   and assuring sustained growth in the affordable housing arena, making it the core driving factor for our country’s growth,” added Bansal. A senior government official said Huda will also focus on affordable housing, with the formation of  . 
 
 “Till now only few were interested in this segment, now we are hoping to get more request for licences under affordable housing,” he added. “Overall, the Union   augurs well for the real estate, affordable housing and the infrastructure segment. Relaxation on long-term capital gains, joint development agreements, tax rebates for builders will all help reduce their tax liability,” said Anshuman Magazine, chairman (India and South East Asia) of property consultant CBRE Group.
 
 
