NASHIK: The BJP on Friday gave tickets to 16 "outsiders" who joined the party recently to contest the February 21 civic polls. 

 The party also gave tickets to the kin of three party heavyweights- the sons of its city unit president and the regional vice-president and the cousin of a sitting BJP MLA from Nashik district.
 
 The BJP is contesting the polls on its own for the second consecutive time since 2012 and faces a stiff opposition from  , its ally at the Centre and in the state, to come to power in the civic body. 
 
 Of the 16 leaders, 10 are sitting MNS corporators who joined the BJP recently. Similarly, three each from the Congress and the Shiv Sena got BJP tickets. 
 
 What raised several eyebrows within the party is the decision of the BJP leadership to give tickets to Ruturaj Vinayak Pande from prabhag 13 (B) and his aunt,  , from prabhag 24 (A). Both are related to former city mayor and Sena leader Vinayak Pande. 
 
 Interestingly, the party has given symbols (A-B forms) to two candidates in three prabhags - one in 24(A) from where Kalpana got the form. 
 
 "The party has proposed the names of alternative candidates, with the first name given the priority. If the name is disqualified, the second name comes into picture," said Ashok Kalkar, organising secretary of the party and its in-charge of Nashik affairs .
 
 The BJP did not give tickets to two of its sitting corporators and replaced few others with their relatives. The party also refused ticket to  , daughter of sitting corporator and member of legislative Assembly Seema Hiray.
 
 Party regional vice president Vasant Gite's son, Prathamesh, will contest as a BJP nominee from ward 15 (C). Similarly, city BJP president  's son, Macchindra, will fight form ward 3 (A). 
 
 The party also presented candidature to Himgauri Adke-Aher from 7 (B). He is Chandwad MLA Rahul Aher's cousin.The two other sitting corporators who were turned down from its list of candidates for elections were Savita Dalwani and Parashram Waghere.
 
 In order to prevent the disgruntled aspirants from staging any agitation at its party office, the BJP top leaders were put up in an undisclosed location. The candidates whose names figured in the list were called to party offices and handed over the A-B forms. From there, they had to travel to the place where these top leaders were present to get their signatures before filing the nomination papers. 
 
 "I was told to file the nomination papers and I did it on Wednesday itself. But I did not get a call from the party till 11.45am on Friday. We tried to trace the party leaderships everywhere, even at the residence of district guardian minister  . I got a call at 12.05pm and was called to the party office where I got the forms. I then had to travel to some other place to get the signature of our city unit chief Balasaheb Sanap," said a candidate. 
 
