After working for years in the Punjabi music and film industry,   decided to try his luck in   last year with 'Udta Punjab'. Now, as he gets ready for his second Bollywood release, ' ', he tells us that the reason it took him five years to go from Punjabi films to mainstream Bollywood was that "mujhe hero ka bhai nahin banna tha, aur na hi woh joh doosre ke dialogue pe taali maare. Jitna bhi role mile uska relevance ho."

  
 
 Diljit says that he agreed to do 'Udta Punjab' after rejecting many offers. "It was an important film dealing with a serious issue. Also, I had mostly done rom-coms in the Punjabi film industry before that. Although I played a cop in 'Jatt & Juliet 2', it was a comic role, so playing a serious cop with an important role in 'Udta Punjab' was a change. I am happy that people are taking me seriously as an actor. Producers aisa nahin sochte hain ki singer hai aur Punjab se hai toh peppy sa number karwa lo."
 
  Talking about 'Phillauri', he says, "Even when I was listening to the story, I was not sure if I would do it. But there was something about the climax of the story that helped me connect with it. It was about something that I have heard since childhood, and that was the reason I decided to do this film." About the film's team, he says, "It has a young producer and director, trying to do something different. I respect   a lot. She decided to be a producer at such a young age, and is going forward in the industry with films that are not based on a tried and tested formula. I have never produced a film and I don't even know if I will ever do that. But unhone ek production house khada kiya, yeh bahut achhi baat hai. She is not even from a filmi background, par jab maine Anushka ke production house ke baare mein suna toh laga ki kuch baat hai. My mom always says, 'Ladka padhe na padhe, ladki zaroor padhni chahiye'. So, I have grown up with a lot of respect for women."
 
  
 
 Punjabi music is often criticised for objectifying women and glorifying drugs and alcohol. But Diljit says he changed his style of music over the years. "Kai baar hum jaldi kuch karne ke chakkar mein galat steps le lete hain. Par thehraav zaroori hai, aur woh experience umar ke saath hi aata hai.   saab ne apna career bahut achha build kiya, and I take inspiration from him," he says, adding, that only Punjabi music has been able to retain its popularity at a time when Bollywood music has finished the market for single releases. "Only the Punjabi music industry has stood the test of time. Bollywood has finished the regional music industry of other languages, but the Punjabi music scene is still flourishing," he says.
 
 
