MANGALURU: City’s first   from Lady Hill Circle to PVS Junction is all set to go smart. A proposal to this effect was announced in the   (MCC) budget presented on Tuesday. The civic body has set aside Rs two crore for the project that draws largely on the concept of TenderSURE roads being implemented om Bengaluru and other cities. 

 H N Srinivas, superintending engineer and deputy commissioner (development), MCC, said there is no specific blue print devised for the smart road per se. “This is more on the lines of an idea that the city is on the verge of becoming smart under Smart City project. A need was felt to showcase one major road in the city as a smart road with all the facilities to both motorists and the pedestrians with a provision for expansion in future,’’ he said. 
 
 Incidentally, this 1.2-km long road passing right in front of MCC’s main office at Lalbagh is city’s major thoroughfare that takes away vehicles leaving the city towards Udupi and beyond in general and other residential areas dotting the city in particular. Given that the traffic density on this road is intense, its development in terms of perfect riding surface, solar panel lights by providing all necessary amenities to stakeholders, will enable MCC to project this as a smart road.
 
 Mohammad Nazeer, MCC commissioner, said a smart road entails pothole free road with neatly painted medians, street lights, signages, provision for underground cable ducts, cross drains under the main carriageway for passing utility pipes, cables and so on. “We are also in the process of ensuring that the entire road length covered under CCTV surveillance, go in for solar panel-enabled street lights and signal systems that work in accordance with traffic density on the road,” he noted.
 
 A smart road also would mean a dust free road, explained K S Lingegowda, executive engineer. With the city corporation already in possession of a road sweeping machine, steps are being taken to mechanically sweep the road, especially along the medians where dust normally tends to settle. There are a few issues with the road in terms of expanded concrete blocks and a few that have sunk that needs repair, he said.
 
  With the work on TenderSURE road from Car Street Junction to Lady Hill Circle via   also under progress, the city will have two parallel exit roads that will help decongest the  , he noted.
 
 
