NASHIK: On the eve of  , thousands of devotees went to the   hill in the moonlight to seek the blessings of Hanuman. But the journey was a roller coaster ride because of the huge craters, loose stones and dry mud on the road till the stairs. Many people fell from bikes and cars skidded, forcing most of the devotees leave their vehicles wherever they experienced the problems. 

 Anjaneri, 20km away from the city, is the birth place of Hanuman and every year devotees of all ages and class visit the place on the eve of Hanuman Jayanti. At a height of 4,264ft above sea level, it is also a trekker’s delight.
 
 Parth Kulthe, a devotee said, “We do not want ‘pucca’ road but a reasonably good road till the steps. We saw many vehicles skidding on the road.”
 
 “The entire patch of the ghat road was filled with parked vehicles as many people did not dare to take their vehicles to the top. The road needs repair,” said Sulabha Tarte, another devotee. 
 
 Anand Divte, another devotee, said he had to leave his motorcycle half way up as he almost skidded twice.
 
 “We saw two persons fall of their bikes due to the bad road. We had to help them up. This road should have been repaired before Hanuman Jayanti,” said Anand.
 
 MP   said, “We have sent a proposal to the central government for developing Anjaneri. On Wednesday, the subject will be put up for discussion in the steering committee meeting.
 
 About fears of trekkers and nature lovers about development affecting the nature, Godse said, “The area is under the forest department. Hence we will have to do only what they approve. It is a conservation site. There are vultures, herbal plants etc.”
 
 Poor road fail to dampen devotees’ spirit: Despite the poor road conditions, thousands of devotees in all age-groups climbed the hill. Many were carrying huge torches, flags and palanquins while walking the 20km distance from the city.
 
 “This year’s Hanuman Jayanti is special because the ‘tithi’, day and ‘nakshatra’ are the same as on the actual birthday of Hanuman as recorded in the ‘shastras’. This unique coincidence of the three factors has occurred after 120 years. Another such coincidence will be seen in 2021,” said Rameshwar Kulkarni, a priest.
 
 “We started climbing on Monday evening and slept near the temple as we wanted to seek the blessings of Hanuman on Tuesday morning. The climb was a tedious one,” said a devotee, Krishnabai Pandurang Shinde. 
 
 Kailas Dhongde, another devotee, said that despite the poor road condition, his group of five senior citizens made it to the top on Monday night. “The climb was worth it,” said Dhongade.
 
 In the city, all Hanuman temples were decorated and played devotional songs. ‘Mahaprasad’ was served in most of the temples.
 
 “We come to   every year and wait for our turn. This time we found it more crowded but had a good darshan,” said SD Kulkarni, a resident of Jail Road.
 
