CHENNAI: These are exciting times for England   in the age-group categories. While their U-20 side has emerged champions in the   in Korea, their U-19 side won the European Championships earlier this year. The U-17 side had also made the Euro final last May before losing to Spain in the tie-breaker. Now, U-17 coach   wants his wards to go one step further and win the U-17 World Cup, which starts in India from October 6. In an exclusive email interview with TOI, Cooper talks about his coaching philosophy, adopting the rich Indian culture and the opponents — Iraq, Mexico and Chile — in England’s Group F. Excerpts:

 
 
 
 We are aware that our journey in the U-17 World Cup has always culminated at the quarterfinal stages. So there is always a challenge to try and better that. We want to prepare the team and give them every opportunity to go and succeed.
 
 
 
 
 I think that’s the plan. We want our teams to be successful and productive in every tournament. I wouldn’t just say that this U-17 World Cup is the only thing which will prepare the lads to win a World Cup at senior level. I would say that all the games programmes are designed to help them succeed at senior World Cup. We are working in a way so as to prepare them for the future. However, it is a unique opportunity to go to World Cup in India. We need to make sure that however it goes and whatever we do, it’s the best thing for the boys to climb up through the ranks. The main aim is to win the World Cup and hopefully, the process has started.
 
 
 
 
 There was some great learning from the tournament. It was our first-ever official competition at U-17 stage. The team and the players did a really good job in the way we played. They also got to experience the last stages of a tournament and it was great to end the season by making a tournament final.
 
 
 The first thing is we want all the England age-group teams to play in a similar way. That’s what St George’s Park (English Football Association's national football centre) has been great for in terms of bringing everybody together and helping us really generate a clear identity. So whatever age group you are watching, you can hopefully see traits of a current and modern England team. We will be no different. We had managed to perform at a really good level last year. The way we wanted our teams to play, the boys went and executed those plans. Our aim will be to do that again. And it’s not only us but all the other England teams. You can see how the U-20 side performed in Korea (they won the World Cup by beating Venezuela 1-0) and U-19 side performed in Georgia (they won the Euro by beating Portugal 2-1). We are changing perceptions of how the England teams look. As I said, going to India for U-17 World Cup will be another opportunity for this group of players to show that.
 
 
 
 
 We have laid down at St George’s Park a real clear way of how we our teams to play. That starts right at the beginning — the U-15s — and goes right till the senior side. One of the main reasons for putting that together is that it can be used at any given event. Be it the World Cup in India or some friendly games at St George’s Park. The non-negotiables don’t change in the way we want our teams to play. Of course it is the biggest stage for the boys to play in the World Cup. India is going to be amazing and there will be so much to look forward to. We want to experience the rich culture that India has. However, when the England team will play, we want an England team to look like an England team.
 
 
 
 We are aware of that. I think that’s exciting and that’s something which we have to embrace and see it as an opportunity as opposed to a threat. Wherever you go and whatever you do around the world, you have to adapt. We are building for the future and of course we want to do well in this event. We want to be as successful as we can. It helps everything. But we have to think about the long term as well. I have no doubt that future World Cups will be held in parts of the world like India if not in India. I know India are intending to such a good job for the U-17 World Cup. As players and support staff, we need to embrace that and learn from it and make sure that when we get back on the plane, we are much better prepared if we go somewhere like that in the future.
 
 
 
 
 We have tried to maximize the international window last month. It was an opportunity to bring everybody together. The plan and preparations had started as soon as we knew that we had qualified for the event back in May. We are going there with enough time to get used to the country and acclimatize so that by the time we are playing the first game against Chile, we should be in the best place to help the players go out there and perform.
 
 
