Nagpur: Over 15 years after two accused filed an appeal challenging five years’ sentence awarded to them for rape and molestation, the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court rejected it while ruling that absence of injury on the survivor’s body wouldn’t exclude them from rape charges. “Mere absence of injury will not exclude forcible sexual intercourse. If evidence of survivor is implicitly reliable and trustworthy, the court is not obligated to seek any corroboration, including corroborates from medical evidence,” Justice Rohit Deo said. The accused — Prafulla Nage and Atul Bhadake — knocked judiciary’s doors against rigorous imprisonment awarded to them by Amravati Sessions Court on July 10, 2002, for forcing themselves on the survivor on September 29, 2001. According to the survivor, she was accosted by petitioners along with a juvenile in conflict with law. They caught hold of her and forcibly committed heinous act in turns. The accused were later booked under Sections 376 (2)(g) (Rape) and 354 (Outraging modesty) after she lodged a police complaint. She was immediately referred to the medical examination where doctors didn’t notice any visible sign of injury on the body, including her private parts, neither was there any bleeding. They observed that the hymen was torn and she was habituated to sexual intercourse and, therefore, no definite opinion about rape could be given. Subsequently, the Amravati Sessions Court convicted them for both offences, which they challenged before HC contending that they were falsely implicated. Citing doctors’ report, they argued that the intercourse was consensual and there were no visible signs of any injuries on the survivor’s private parts. They contended that if she was subjected to a prolonged and brutal sexual assault by three persons, she would certainly have suffered injuries, either on person or private parts. Justice Deo observed that survivor’s testimony is unambiguous and she specifically explained roles of all the accused. “Her cross-examination is final nail in the coffin of accused. The prosecution is justified in contending that the survivor admitted to presence of accused on the spot and rape committed by them. The burden was on accused to prove that survivor consented to intercourse, which they failed to do. I have no hesitation in recording that the prosecution, with the aid of Section 114-A of the Evidence Act, proved the offences beyond reasonable doubt,” the court stated, before cancelling petitioners’ bail bonds and directing the cops to rearrest them.