GURUGRAM: A group of homebuyers has warned it will not hesitate to move the high court if Haryana’s version of the   (Regulation and Development) Act, which the state government is to notify by July 31, dilutes any of the provisions of the central law. 

 Homebuyers had protested against certain provisions of the draft rules of Haryana   published earlier by the government, calling them ‘pro-builder”. They expect the final rules to be different. 
 
 Gaurav Prakash, who has invested in a house in Sector 111, said, “If the state government rolls out the final Act on the lines of the draft law, which was a diluted version of the central Act, we will approach the high court.” 
 
 Prakash is part of a group of homebuyers from the new sectors that came together to oppose the draft rules of Haryana Rera. These residents are connected under a group called #UndilutedRERA on Facebook, Twitter and other social media and messaging platforms. 
 
 One of the major points highlighted by the group was that the final law should only exclude projects that have received completion certificates from the ambit of Rera instead of those that have obtained occupancy certificates as proposed in the draft. They believe this provision will play into the hands of developers dragging their feet on amenities and other infrastructural aspects of projects.
 
 Abhinav Trivedi, a resident of Sector 37D who is also part of the group, said, “We have been suffering for the past seven years after buying flats in Sector 37D. The builder has the audacity to make threats that we won’t be eligible for penalties if the delay is from its end if we delay our payments by a single day. Undiluted Rera should be implemented immediately.” 
 
 He added that it is because of loopholes in existing laws that real estate companies have found an easy way out by delivering projects without promised amenities like clubs, water connections and electricity lines. 
 
 “Hardearned money of residents like us is stuck with no uniform recourse. A strong and undiluted Rera will be the solution for thousands of homebuyers,” said Vikas Bhatnagar, a home buyer in   and currently a UK resident.
 
 Dilbag Singh Suhag, member of Haryana Rera, was unavailable for comment. He had, however, earlier told TOI the Act will be implemented in the state this month and all suggestions and concerns received by the government would be considered before the final rollout.
 
 
