KOCHI:   have moved one step closer to be part of the upcoming Kochi   as 23 of them have successfully completed their skill training programme in Kochi on Thursday.

 The month-long training equipped them in apprentice computer training, housekeeping, hospitality, front office management, counselling, fire and safety, security practices, basic English and soft skills.
 
 The multiskill training for transgenders was a joint initiative of Kudumbashree Mission, Kochi city police commissioner, Kochi Metro and   to rehabilitate and facilitate their entry into the mainstream . 
 
 “We took up the challenge to train them in skills that make them employable in various posts in Kochi Metro,” said Fr  , in-charge of centre for skill development, Rajagiri.
 
 The TOI had in a series of reports last year exposed the plights of the transgender community in Kochi which was facing social discrimination . Taking note of the reports, KMRL came up with a proposal to provide them with   in customer relations, housekeeping and crowd management when it becomes operational. The Metro also offered to absorb them through Kudumbashree. 
 
 State finance minister Thomas Isaac also made special budgetary allocation for rehabilitation programmes of the transgender community. The police department too supported the initiative of KMRL. 
 
 The first meeting of the programme was held at the city police commissioner’s office on July 15 and Kudumbashree was assigned with the responsibility of facilitating the programme.
 
 The   was appointed as the training agency. The police did the security check on all the participants and 25 people were cleared. The training began on January 28.
 
 “Teachers from the college took classes for us on basic English and soft skills like personality development . We got exposure to basic computer usage. There were 25 of us when we joined but two of them dropped out,” said Sheethal Shyam, a transgender trainee.
 
 Tannie Thomas, Kudumbashree district mission coordinator, gave away certificates to the transgenders at a function on Thursday.
 
 Another batch is likely to be trained for recruitment in other projects.
 
