SURAT: The country’s largest man-made fabric (MMF) sector is facing huge production loss from the last fortnight following the textile workers from Uttar Pradesh and other states moving out of the city due to assembly elections and to celebrate   and Dhuleti festivals. 

 The powerloom sector is hit hard due to the exodus of the workers ahead of Holi festival with the production of polyester fabric reducing by almost 45 per cent.
 
 Industry experts said that the powerloom weaving and textile processers in the city and in adjoining industrial areas like Palsana, Jholva, Kim, Pipodara, etc., have been facing acute shortage of textile workers. 
 
 As per an estimate, out of 10 lakh workers employed in the powerloom sector, over three lakh have moved out of the city in the last fortnight due to assembly election in Uttar Pradesh and the Holi-Dhuleti festival. There are over 1.5 lakh workers who have yet to return after demonetization.
 
 Powerloom weavers said that around 60 per cent of the units remained shut for almost two months post-demonetization. It was in the mid-January that the demand for saris and dress material improved in the key consuming markets across the country. 
 
 However, the manufacturers of yarn known as the spinners went on a spree to increase yarn prices, thereby creating serious trouble for the weavers. 
 
 The production of grey fabric has been reduced from four crore metre of fabrics per day to just 2.5 crore metre fabrics.
 
 Sources said that the spinners have increased prices of various quality of yarn from Rs 30 per kilogram to Rs 40 per kilogram in the last fortnight. The prices are so high that the weavers are unable to purchase the raw material due to the heavy increase in the final costing of the grey fabric. 
 
 Talking to TOI, president of  , Devesh Patel said. “A couple of years ago, textile workers would visit their hometown once in a year. Now, they are going thrice in a year and stay for almost three months. The workers from Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Odisha, etc., get the daily wages under MGNREGA, which is enough for their families.”
 
 Patel added, “Over three lakh workers have moved out of the city in the last fortnight. They are expected to return only in April.”
 
 Mahendra Ramoliya, president of  , said, “The industry is continuously facing trouble since November-2016. First came demonitisation, which led to the exodus of workers. Then came the heavy increase in yarn prices. Now, once again the workers are leaving the city. This is going to create a lot of problems for the industry in the coming months.”
 
 
