NAGPUR: In a double   third semester students, the   (NU) exam section has now marked all of them absent in the same paper in which they were failed and later passed. Though the NU is not completely to be blamed for the blunder, the bitter experience of January left the students deeply worried.

 In January, TOI had carried a series of reports on how all the third semester students, who opted for 20th Century American Literature, were failed in the paper. Now, the students who appeared for their other backlog papers are baffled to see themselves being marked absent in the result.
 
 On Saturday, many MA students approached TOI complaining that marklist for a series of roll numbers uploaded on the NU website was showing them absent in the 20th Century American Literature.
 
 Well acquainted with NU’s lethargic functioning, the anxious students rushed to their colleges to bring the anomaly to their notice. But, the students were told to wait till the original marklists are issued by the exam section.
 
 Actually, the students didn’t realize that they had filled the exam form for this subject too as a precautionary measure. But, they were not required to appear in the exam since they passed after applying for revaluation. In fact, had the NU filtered such roll numbers after revaluation result, it would have saved itself and the students all the trouble.
 
 On March 21, TOI had reported that the MA students were declared pass in ‘20th Century Amercian Literature’. After students’ outcry, Vice Chancellor   had promised students to complete the revaluation process within two weeks but it took almost two months.
 
 Director of Board of Examinations and Evaluation   not only sought to downplay the episode but also tag the students as ‘poor learners’.
 
 “They were marked absent because the students had filled the exam form but didn’t appear as the revaluation result declared them pass in the same paper. They need to submit the original marklist, its photocopy and application form for getting a fresh marklist in the college. In this case, wanting forms are not needed since they are required only when a student has appeared but shown absent,” Khaty said.
 
 However, there seems to be no clarity on submission as the students were told that they need to personally visit the exam section with their documents.
 
 When pointed out that the students faced problem in the same paper, Khaty said, “I agree many passed after revaluation after there were students whose marks got decreased and some even failed. But students don’t tell these things to media.”
 
 Countering Khaty, students alleged, “Officials in the exam section, especially, Khaty sir, never speak politely with us. Thus, we are compelled to report such things to media.”
 
