HYDERABAD: Twelve   have been directed to appear before the Special Investigation Team (SIT) to ascertain whether these artistes were also peddling drugs in the Tinsel Town.

 The prohibition and excise department's SIT decided to quiz the   personalities on the suspicion that they were into big-time peddling after obtaining the banned substances from the   peddlers arrested so far. “For us, if someone is only abusing drugs, he she will be our last priority as our focus now is on the peddlers. We have called the film personalities on the suspicion that they could be peddlers within the film industry . They might have been substance abusers at one point of time or other, but our main focus is to know whether they turned peddlers too,'' sources in the enforcement wing told STOI.
 
 The officials said many among them might have not done it for money , but had facilitated in arranging drugs. Most of them party regularly and have close-knit groups. During the parties, they contact peddlers like Calvin Mascarenhas and Brendeon Ben (Bob).
 
 A typical conversation between a film personality and the arrested peddler was found to be like “I want four papers. Can you supply?''. And, the reply will be ``You come to a particular place''. They were all found using code language on different Apps, nothing was ever a straight request. The number of papers would only change depending on the requirement.
 
 The film personalities, who are now under the scanner, in the past had placed several requests and officials were tightlipped about the quantity of narcotics procured by these tainted artistes.
 
 “We want to be certain about what the arrested accused are telling. They claim they have clout with big personalities.So, we need to cross check with the artists, who are expected to appear before us next week,'' the sources added.
 
 In the case of Zeeshan, on whose confession actor Nava deep was asked to appear, the investigators found that several women were in touch with him and he claimed he was in a relationship with about 8 or 9 women at a given time. However, the officials suspect that it could be a case of something to do with flesh trade.
 
 On Saturday, the Special Investigation Team officials took Calvin, Abdul Quddus and Wahed into two-day custody after taking permission from the Nampally court. The officials want to draw all information before they question the Tollywood artistes, who might be appearing before them from Tuesday as per the schedule.
 
