PATNA: The opposition members created a ruckus in the legislative council on Thursday over the issue of   in government hospitals and poor implementation of government’s free drug distribution scheme. Amidst pandemonium, the council was adjourned till 2.30pm.
 
  Raising the issue, chief whip of opposition Rajnish Kumar said shortage of drugs in government hospitals started after the drug scam surfaced in 2014 as Bihar Medical Services and Infrastructure Corporation Limited stopped purchasing drugs, compelling people to buy medicines from private shops.
  
  “The health sector has crumbled in the state. Not only drugs, there is also huge shortage of doctors and nurses in government hospitals and health centres,” Rajnish said after which the   legislators trooped into the well and raised anti-government slogans.
  
  Addressing mediapersons after the adjournment, opposition leader in the council  , said, “Availability of 33 types of medicines in out-patient department and 112 types of medicines in indoor-patient department is mandatory in all government hospitals and health centres. In case of medical colleges, there should be 65 types of medicines in OPD and 120 types of medicines in IPD. However, most of the hospitals and medical colleges in the state are running without medicines,” Modi said.
  
  He added even   and Hospital (PMCH) lacked basic medicines. “In a letter to the health department on March 8, PMCH superintendent has clearly mentioned about lack of bandages, syringe and gauge in the hospital,” Modi said.
  
  The opposition also raised the issue of changes in ‘Swayam Sahayta Bhatta Yojna (unemployment allowance scheme)’. Modi said the government had promised to give Rs 1,000 per month to unemployed youths, who have passed Intermediate examination, every month for two years. However, the planning and development department later made changes in the scheme and decided to offer unemployment allowance to only those pursuing higher education after clearing Intermediate examination, Modi said.
  
  However, planning and development minister   alias Lallan Singh said only 13% of Bihar youth opted for higher education after intermediate and rest 87% were the beneficiaries of the unemployment allowance. “The Mahagathbandhan started implementing all the pre-poll promises just one month after forming the government. We do not believe in ‘jumlabazi’,” he added.
  
  Later, JD (U) MLC Sanjay Singh and Tunna Ji Pandey of BJP had a heated argument over alleged harassment of Dalit women in different parts of the state.
