Symptoms of thyroid disorders are commonly confused with those of other diseases, hence majority of patients remain undiagnosed and untreated. So let’s first understand what is  ? Thy
 roid Gland is a butterfly shaped endocrine gland, located in front of neck. Its main job is to produce thyroid hormones. Hormones are chemicals that carry messages from organs of your body to your cells and help in regulation of body function. Thyroid gland produces mainly two hormones – 

 1. Tetra-iodothyronine (T-4) and 2. Tri-iodothyronine (T-3). So understand what is the role of this hormone in our body? This helps in growth and development, regulation of body temperature, assists body organs in their functions.
 
 It is important that thyroid gland works properly in our body. And if it does not work properly, it causes two disorders,
 
  
  Let’s understand what is hypothyroidism? It is a condition in which the thyroid gland cannot produce enough thyroid hormones to keep body function normally. And 4-10% of general population may have hypothyroidism. And mainly women are more affected than men. And signs and symptoms of   are Depression, weight gain, tiredness, hair loss, dry skin, high cholesterol, and menstrual irregularity, infertility/difficulty in conception and swelling in the legs. Now understand what is hyperthyroidism? A condition in which thyroid gland produces too much of thyroid hormones in the body.   can develop at any age in men/women and more commonly occurs in women and begins after 20 years of age. The sign and symptoms of hyperthyroidism are difficulty in sleeping, weight loss, tremors, persistent sore of dry throat, increased bowel movements, excessive sweating and rapid heart rate. However, thyroid disorders can happen to any person irrespective of their age and gender. It is very easy to diagnose thyroid disorders. There are mainly two parameters to evaluate thyroid disorders -1. Risk factors (Family and personal medical history) and 2. Blood Test (TSH), (TPO). It is easy to manage thyroid disorders with medicines and diet. Although diet does not affect thyroid disease; a healthy diet may help for our overall well- being. 
 
 Thyroid disease affects many body systems and overall health. It increases LDL cholesterol level and elevates triglycerides levels. Patient also suffers intestines problems such as constipation and decreased GI Activity. It also affects our reproductive system, brain, heart and kidneys.
 
 It is your responsibilities to consult a doctor if you experience any symptoms of hypothyroidism and hyperthyroidism. Take your medication as directed by the doctor. Do not skip your medicines and do not change the dose of your thyroid medicines without consulting your doctor, and find time to take care of yourself. 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
