NOIDA:  , Sector 132, has struck off the names of more than 50 students from its   whose parents did not pay the fees for 2016-17 session following their fight against the school’s fee hike of almost 14% and annual charges levied by it.

 In an email to the parents concerned, the school’s principal,  , has said: “This is to inform you that the name of Master/Miss … of Class ... has been struck off from the school rolls on account of non-payment of fee for the entire academic year 2016-17.”
 
 When contacted, the school honorary secretary,  , confirmed that the school has struck off the names of nearly 50-60 students whose parents did not pay the fee for the entire year.
 
 The parents, who have been fighting the school management for almost a year over the arbitrary 14% hike and the annual charges, were visibly upset with the school’s decision.
 
 Neeti Shrivastava, president, Gautam Budh Nagar Parents’ Association, said, “We have already written to to the chief minister,   and other authorities and met different politicians but now the parents have lost their patience. This shows how close the managements of these schools are to the politicians.”
 
 Shrivastava said they will have a meeting on Sunday to discuss their next course of action. “The school cannot arbitrarily strike off students’ names like this,” she said.
 
 Notices to the school from the CBSE, district inspector of schools (DIOS), joint education director (Meerut), etc in the past year failed to have their desired effect.
 
 On Saturday, a group of parents had held a meeting with the school’s management committee where they offered to pay the remaining fee excluding the annual charges and the 14% hiked fee amount. However, the school refused to agree to the demand saying that they are running a deficit, parents said. 
 
 “Our offer to discuss the annual charges was turned down by the school,” Ritu Lal, one of the parents present in the meeting, said
 
 Lal said that some of the parents had received emails from the school on Friday midnight asking them not to send their children to school from Monday if the fees was not paid.
 
