NASHIK: Confined to the hospital bed since March 1 and unable to sit due an accident that broke his femur bone into three, Mayur Wagh from KBH Vidyalay in   is determined to appear for the   from the   in  . 

 A bright student of standard X, he has requested the   divisional board to allow him to appear for the SSC exam from the hospital premises. This is for the first time that an examinee will be appearing for the exam from a hospital. 
 
 Mayur met with an accident on March 1 when he was driving a scooter from his village Nilghavan to Malegaon. "A few small children were crossing the road when suddenly they stopped midway. Mayur applied the brakes to save the children and fell off the bike. His thigh bone broke into three," said his father, Prakash, who was in Nashik to get the permission from the board office. 
 
 "His thigh was swollen. Autorickshaw drivers picked him up and informed me. I told them to rush him to the hospital. They said that 70% of his leg had suffered major injury," he added.
 
 Since there was a massive swelling in his thigh, the doctors had to wait for two days to operate on him. He was in the ICU and has now been shifted to the emergency room. 
 
 Orthopaedic surgeon Mahesh Telrandhe, who operated on Mayur, said his right femur is fractured and he cannot sit. "I cannot permit him to be shifted to the exam centre in an ambulance. We will be tilting his bed upwards and providing a table that is used by patients for eating." 
 
 He added, "I got a call from the board office about the security in the hospital. We shifted him to a floor where there are no patients. I assured them that I will not shift any patient here and my employees will not go there."
 
 The board officers said critical patients are brought till the exam centre in an ambulance, but this was an exceptional case where the student could not be brought out of the hospital.
 
 Secretary of the divisional board office RR Marwari said, "This is for the first time in the division that a student will be appearing for the exam from the hospital. Until now, students have appeared for the exam in an ambulance at the exam centre. But Mayur's case is different. There are rods in his thigh and he cannot be shifted. We will be giving an independent supervisor, police and centre head to him to ensure security."
 
 A confident and ecstatic Mayur told TOI over phone that he was sure of coming out with flying colours. "I studied hard throughout the year and cannot back out at the last minute. My mind was not prepared to accept that I would not be appearing for the exams. I want to study medicine in future," he said.
 
 Vice principal of Mayur's school, K D Dabhade, said Mayur was a very bright student. "He is very good in academics. He can do very well in the exams. His preparation is very good," said Dabhade.
 
 
