CHANDIGARH: As many as 10 institutes run by Sirsa-based Dera   (DSS) moved the   and   high court on Tuesday demanding permission to operate their bank accounts. A month back, the court had ordered all accounts of the dera to be frozen bank and properties attached to recover the damage caused to public and private property by rampaging followers of sect head Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh after he was convicted of rape.

 In the application, the institutes under by Shah Satnam Ji Research and Development Foundation umbrella submitted that freezing of the accounts has halted their operations and was adversely affecting around 7,000 students, 1,000 staff members and numerous patients being treated in the hospital being run by the trust.
 
 The court was told that they were not been able to run even day-to-day affairs of these institutes such as paying salaries to the employees or electricity bills.
 
 The institutes that have moved the HC include: Shah Satnam ji Research and Development Foundation through its trustee Shobha Gora, Shah Satnam Ji Specialty Hospitals, Shah Satnam Ji Girls College  , Shah Satnam Ji Bal Balika Ashram, Shah Satnam Ji Boys school, Shah Satnam Ji girls school, Shah Satnam Ji Boys college, Saint MSG Glorious International School, Bapu Maghar Singh Ji International blood bank and MSG Bhartiya Khel Gaon.
 
 According to the applicants, though no specific order was passed by the HC for freezing the accounts associated to DSS, yet all the accounts of these institutes have been seized by the state authorities.
 
 Applicants have submitted that all these institutes were run by Param Pita Shah Satnam Ji Educational and Welfare Society Sirsa, which was formed in 1993-94. Later, they were transferred to the foundation in 2006-07 with the aim to provide state-of-art medical and educational facilities on substantially subsidized cost to the public.
 
 It was also claimed that there was no question of diversion of funds by these institutes to any illegal activity, as their accounts are well maintained and audited periodically.
 
 The application has been filed in the wake of an ongoing petition filed by advocate   Dhull on the basis of which the HC had issued several directions regarding maintenance of law and order situation in the states of Punjab and Haryana in view of the verdict on dera head Gurmeet Ram Rahim in a rape case.
 
