A lot have been written and said about former India captain and world-class allrounder Kapil Dev’s maverick knock of 175 off just 138 during a league game of the 1983 Prudential  . Coming in to bat at 17 for five, Kapil Dev played an incredible knock what is regarded as one of the best knocks in a World Cup. Unfortunately, that knock was not televised and there is no video footage of that fantastic innings. 

 However, on Thursday night, Indian   team vice-captain   with a whirlwind knock off 171 off 115 balls that included 20 fours and seven sixes not only reminded cricket fans about that Kapil knock, but manage to produced one of the greatest ever ODI knocks in women's cricket helping India storm into the ICC World Cup final, beating a strong Australian side by 36 runs in the semi-final. 
 
 While Harmanpreet brought ‘Kurnage’’ on to the Aussies bowlers, twitter went on to overdrive in praise of the girl from Moga district in Punjab.
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
 What worked to Harmanpreet's advantage was her experience of playing the Women's Big Bash League (WBBL) for Sydney Thunders due to which her familiarity with the current Aussie attack was much more than any other player.
 
 After a useful 60 against New Zealand in the virtual quarter-final, Harmanpreet upped the ante like never before.
 
 She batted like as if there was no tomorrow as she repeatedly hit the troika of left-arm spinner Jess Jonasen (0/63 in 7 overs), off-break bowler Ashleigh Gardner (1/43 in 8 overs) and leg-spinner Kirsten Beans (1/49 in 8 overs) with utter disdain.
 
 Her footwork against the spinners was exemplary as she would repeatedly come down the track to loft them in the arc between long-on and deep mid-wicket.
 
 She seemed in some discomfort with side strain but that did not deter her from targetting the on-side as a whopping 137 runs was added in 13.4 overs along with Deepti Sharma (25) for fourth wicket.
 
 Such was her focus that once she scampered home for a double to complete her hundred, she was seen shouting at Deepti after she flung her helmet in disgust.
 
 She regained her composure, said sorry to a teary-eyed junior and like a woman on mission completely annihilated the opposition bowlers finishing the match as contest by the time they went into the break.
 
 
