A lot of Brits may be filled with remorse after Brexit, but the out come of the June 23 referendum sure gave UK-bound Indian students a reason to smile. After the vote, the value of a pound sterling has dropped to around `86-87 from the pre-Brexit `101.And Kolkata students, who go to Britain primarily to take up courses in management, economics, English and engineering, are currently an upbeat lot.
According to Gaurav Surana, the owner of I Cud B, a web portal and an overseas education consultancy agency , the cost of studying in the UK has never been cheaper. “It has never been the primary destination for students because of the strict visa policy, but the low ered cost is certainly making it the hot destination now,“ said Vinay Jaiswal, the owner of IFS Kolkata, Pvt Ltd, another agency.
 
 Experts told us that the cost of education in the UK is already 15% lower than what it was during the first quarter of the year. The owner of Gateway Abroad, Vikash Agarwal, said even living costs have gone down post-Brexit.
 
 Shreyanka Mazumder, who completed her masters in economics from City University , London, last year, said the biggest component of educational expenses there is the tuition fee, followed by the living cost. “Overall, I had to spend `20-22 lakh. But after Brexit, the expenditure will be around `17-18 lakh,“ she said. On the other hand, Shivina Sethia, who enrolled in the computer science course at the University of St Andrews in Fife, Scotland, in 2015, said she had paid £17,000 (aro und `17 lakh) for tuition fee last year. “This year, I'll have to year, I'll have to pay around `15 lakh,“ she said.
 
 But it's those students who fund their studies with education loans will see the real difference.cording to Gaurav, around According to Gaurav, around 500 students from   go abroad for studies, with less than 5% of them securing full scholar ships. The rest fund their educa tion with partial or full loans.
 
 “Now, the loan amount will be less and so will the interest. That will make a huge difference,“ Vinay added. Vinay added.
 
 Moreover, the devaluation of the pound has made the UK a cheaper destination that   or the US.
 
 So, a chunk of students, who were other wise planning to go Down Under to the US, will now opt for UK varsities,“ Vinay told us.
 
 As a result of all these factors, almost all citybased agencies are receiving an increased number of enquiries about studies in the UK. While Vinay said the increase has been around 10%, officials at the British Council, Kolkata, said they , too, had been receiving more queries.“Though we cannot give you an exact number, we are receiving more calls,“ an official said.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 Aspirant Santanu Ghoshal told that the cost will shape his decision. “I want to do my graduation in hotel management and for that, I have shortlisted universities in the US, Singapore and the UK. Until and unless I get a call from a top university , I'll definitely go for the cheapest option,“ he said.
 
 All said and done, a hurdle still remains -the UK's stringent work visa system. Gaurav said the system doesn't favour students, who want to gain some work experience in the country after their studies. “As Indian students seek value addition, they prefer to recover a part of the education cost by working there. But it's very difficult to do so in the UK.On the other hand, countries like the US grant a few years of work visa to international students,“ he said.
 
 Pulkit Sharma, a plus II commerce student of Birla High School, who is preparing for universities in the US, Singapore and the UK, said, “If I get a call from   or   or any other top UK university , I won't think twice.Otherwise, I'll go to a country where I'll be able to work after completing my education.“
 
  IS BECOMING THE NEXT BRITAIN
 
 Due to the stringent work visa rules in the UK, more and more students are opting for other countries.According to education counsellors, many city students are now going to Ireland instead of Britain.The country not only has some fine institutions like   and University of Dublin, but is also cheaper in terms of living cost. “The tuition fees and the cost of living is 35% or less in Ireland,“ said counsellor Gaurav Surana.
 
