CHENNAI: The   has stayed the   department’s reassessment of income tax returns filed by Congress strongman and former Union finance and home minister   and his family members six years ago.   and his kin had approached the court seeking the quashing of the department’s demand notices.

 Justice Rajiv Shakder, before whom the petitions came up for hearing on Wednesday, concurred with the submissions of senior counsel Vijay Narayan, who represented the Chidambarams, and stayed the demand notices. Posting the matter to March 16 for further proceedings, the judge said, “Pending the adjudication of the writ petition, further proceedings pursuant to the demand are stayed.”
 
 The issue relates to a family-held 200-acre coffee estate in Coorg, which was inherited by Chidambaram from his grandfather in 1956. The estate has since been partitioned and divided into five units of 40 acres each, in the name of Chidambaram, his wife Nalini, son, daughter-in-law and granddaughter. As it was generating agricultural income, the estate was exempted from income tax. It was disclosed as agricultural income in the income returns of each family member for the assessment year 2009-10. Six years later, on March 31, 2016, an assistant commissioner of income tax issued individual notices saying the income had escaped assessment.
 
 Assailing the notices, Chidambaram and his family sent replies with their objections along with fresh returns. But the officer slapped demand notices, directing them to pay up taxes of Rs 5 lakh-plus each. The family then filed writ petitions in the Madras high court challenging the notices. According to the petitions, they sold raw coffee without curing it. So it did not attract the relevant provisions of the Income Tax Rules. After filing fresh returns, there were several rounds of communication between the department and the family, but instead of disposing of objections raised by them, the authorities passed a reassessment order dated December 30 and issued demand notices.
 
 Among several thousand such income tax returns filed by other similarly placed estate owners, this particular family had been singled out by the authorities, that too six years after the returns had been filed, said Narayan, adding that the assistant commissioner was not justified in passing the reassessment order which was illegal and unsustainable in law.
 
 Narayan said that as per   rulings, the assessment officer had to furnish reasons for reopening the assessments. He was also bound to dispose of objections by a reasoned order before proceeding with the reassessment.
 
 
