AHMEDABAD: When it began in 1951, the Bhoodan and the   led by   were considered unparalleled human endeavours to establish a   and rejuvenate the Indian society.

 This well intentioned land-gift movements lasted till 1971 in Gujarat and the country. It was Bhave’s moral call to large landowners to donate some of their holdings or entire village holdings for distribution among the landless. But  , the state agency which was responsible for distributing a whopping 1,03,530 acres of land since three decades are yet to complete its moral obligation of distributing a mind-boggling 52,546 acres to poor, landless peasants, dalits and tribals since 1965. Ironically, this unfinished job has turned the GSM into one of the richest landlords in the country themselves!
 
 Tragically, a large portion of certificates or ‘dan-patras’ have either been misplaced or were destroyed after various district level offices of the GSM closed down in each decade. 
 
 Records of the Sarvodaya and the SSS Rajghat, available with TOI, reveals that till July 1952, Gujarat had contributed just 2,500 acres, while three years later by the end of 1955, this figure had gone up to 39,240 acres. By the time Bhoodan ended in July 1971, almost 42.27 lakh acres of land was donated across the country, which was four times than what the then land ceiling laws were to achieve — which was 12 lakh acres.
 
 “Its worth mentioning here that a few dalits in distress in Pochampalli village in Hyderabad district had approached Acharya Vinoba Bhave seeking land from the government while he was on a Shivrampalli padyatra on April 15, 1951. Vinoba held a meeting in which one Ram Chandra Reddy agreed to donate 100 acres. This was the beginning of Bhoodan,” said a senior GSM member. 
 
 Acharya Vinoba’s second leg of the campaign involved Gramdan, meant for rural reconstruction — which involved pooling and sharing of the entire village land by all its inhabitants. In Gujarat there were about 1,119 instances of donations towards Gramdan.
 
 “For Vinoba, Bhoodan and Gramdan was not just about transfer of land ownership, but a movement to rebuild the village economy based on principles of equality, justice and human values -- where there would neither be landless people nor landlords. This, according to Vinoba, was the solution to end exploitation and violence,” the GSM member added.
 
