KOCHI: Aluva municipality, TDB, police and various government departments have completed the arrangements for smooth conduct of Shivaratri festival. 

 Around 1,500 cops led by superintendent of police A V George will maintain law and order and safety of pilgrims and public during the festival.
 
 Temporary offices of municipality, police, fire and rescue services department and KSEB will be opened at Manappuram during the festival season which will last for almost a month.
 
  On Shivaratri on Friday, office of KSRTC, first aid unit of   hospital and homeo medical unit will function from Manappuram.
 
 There would be around 180 Bali Tharas for the pilgrims to offer Bali Tharapanam.
 
 Divers of Navy, ambulances of the municipality, fire and rescue personnel and rescue boats would be kept under vigil so as to provide help in case of any emergency. "A meeting convened by district administration the other day reviewed the arrangements made so far.
 
 Officials from various departments also attended the meeting," said   MLA. "All the arrangements including special measures for safety and security are in place," he said.
 
  Traffic regulations: Police have enforced traffic regulations in Aluva town from 4 pm on Friday to 2 pm on Saturday. The vehicles to Manappuram from Angamaly side should take deviation from   and take GCDA road to reach Ayuvada hospital near Manappuram. Parking lots have been arranged for private and KSRTC buses at Manappuram. KSRTC buses and private vehicles from Manappuram should take reach Paravoor Junction via old Desam Road. No vehicles will be allowed to Manappuram from   junction. 
 
 The buses from Varappuzha, Edayar should drop the passenger at Thottakkattukara and take a left turn from the junction and return via Paravoor Junction and Kodungalloor. The private buses from Angamaly should end the trip at test ground at Paravoor Junction and return after dropping the passengers.
 
 KSRTC buses to Angamaly from Ernakulam should take the service road from Pulinchode junction to reach private bus stand. Then, should pass under the flyover to reach the service road opposite the bus stand and take a right turn and go straight to Angamaly side. Buses from Ernakulam should take the service road from Pulinchode to reach private bus stand and return through the service road to reach Pulinchode Junction.
 
 
