CHENNAI: Battling   of  , banks in   have severely curtailed the number of   given out in the past five years.

 The casualties of this stringent policy are not international students, in Ivy League institutions or would-be MBA grads, but financially deprived students who want to enter polytechnic or arts colleges.
 
 For more than a decade, Tamil Nadu has handed out more in student loans than any other state in the country . With non-repayment at an all-time high of 17%, however, and despite the state retaining its number one position in disbursement of education loans, it has slashed the amount of student credit it has distributed. Education loans have dipped to a total of `1,583 crore in 2015-16 from `1,896 crore in 2013-14.
 
 Bankers, to be sure, have an explanation for the trend.
 
 “There are quite a few students who are financially stable, settled abroad and have cushy jobs who are willful defaulters,“ Indian Overseas Bank executive director R Subramaniakumar said.“These privileged students from affluent backgrounds either don't realise or don't seem to care that their actions severely impact a bank's ability to lend to truly deserving candidates from underprivileged backgrounds.“
 
 Non-repayment of loans also increases lending rates.Public sector banks like State Bank of India, Indian Overseas Bank, Indian Bank, Bank of Maharashtra and Punjab National Bank offer student loans at interest rates between 11% and 14%.In many cases it is higher than the interest on personal loans.
 
 Private lenders such as ICICI Bank, HDFC Bank and Axis Bank charge higher rates of 14%-17%. “We cannot afford to make losses. So, given the high default rate, we are trying to be more prudent with loans,“ an SBI official said.
 
 But according to the  , banks in many rural districts of the state have completely stopped giving educa tion loans to students.
 
 “Banks turn away meritorious students,“ a parent, N Hema, said. “And these are small loan amounts of `1 lakh to `2 lakh that students pursuing diplomas in engineering or BCom need.“
 
 Another problem is banks asking for surety or collateral for loans below Rs 4 lakh. “Banks are not supposed to ask for guarantees on low-ticket loans. But many of them do nonetheless. They also harass students with endless paperwork,“ Education Loan Task Force member K Srinivasan said.
 
 
