NAGPUR: Shiv Sena MP from Ramtek, Krupal Tumane, was most conspicuous by his absence at the grand function in which President   inaugurated the Vipassana Meditation Centre at Dragon Palace in Kamptee on Friday.

 Simmering with anger, Tumane, later told TOI, that he would not take this lightly. “The organizers of the function did not include my name in the printed invitation card, nor did I receive any personal or informal call from them inviting me. I had no choice but to return to Nagpur,” said Tumane.
 
 Kamptee, where Dragon Palace is located, is in my Lok Sabha constituency. “Not only protocol but decency demanded that the Member of the   and elected representative of the area be given proper invitation to attend a function in my constituency where President of India is chief guest,” said Tumane. He was at the airport to receive the President in the morning and accompanied him to Ramtek where Kovind visited Shantinath Jain Temple.
 
 “I will move a breach of privilege motion in Lok Sabha against the organizers of the function for the insult to an MP,” said Tumane. He said the state government’s social justice department, which totally funded the construction of the Vipassana centre, was involved in organizing the function and should have insisted on following protocol since President of India was attending it.
 
 Sulekha Kumbhare, ex-minister of state and president of the Ogawa Society that built the Vipasanna centre, was totally unrepentant about the whole episode. When TOI inquired with her as to why no invitation was extended to the MP, she said as an NGO it was her prerogative whom to invite for her function.
 
 Later, she tried to justify the lapse saying she was too busy working day and night in organizing the event to notice it. “It was not at all my intention to deliberately exclude him,” she added. 
 
 Minister for social justice Rajkumar Badole said his department was not involved in organizing the presidential function and that Kumbhare was solely responsible for it. However, he admitted that his ministry had spent Rs10 crore on construction of the Vipasanna centre at Dragon Palace.
 
 
