MANIPAL: Even after hacking for over 30 hours non-stop without a minute's sleep, there was no signs of tiredness on the faces of these budding engineers. Instead they all were full of energy and enthusiasm.

 The action was witnessed at the   (MIT) campus where the grand finale of ‘Smart India Hackathon-17’, considered as world’s biggest digital movement, which began on Saturday morning. MIT was one of centres across 26 locations in India chosen for   to offer digital yet sustainable innovative solutions to solve real time challenges faced by the nation.
 
 “I am not an owl and usually hit the sack before midnight. But the excitement and people around kept me awake all this while,” shares Ankita Makker, a second-year computer science student from IIITDM, Jabalpur. She is working on a problem regarding mushrooming of fake universities across nation. “Our team is designing a common platform that can identify such fake universities and report it to the University Grants Commission (UGC) and notify on its official website as well.”
 
 Everything was going smooth for Navneesh Kaur from Punjab, who was working on collaboration of MHRD website, until the team hit an error in their coding at midnight. “Our entire work went almost waste when there was a major coding error. However, we restored it without losing hope and our minds. My team is happy that we have achieved the desiredour results.” she said.
 
 What disappointed the participants and the organizers the most was the fact that Prime Minister Narendra Modi did not address them during his interaction on Saturday night. “We were eager and also received intimation from AICTE that PM would choose MIT, Manipal for student interaction. Unfortunately we were not considered,” an official added.
 
 In order to keep the participants awake and active, the organisers held Zumba and other activities.
 
 Forty-two teams with six students and two mentors began their 36-hour round-the-clock ‘Smart India Hackathon-2017’ at 8.30am on Saturday. As many as 20 problems related to UGC were given them to solve. “Those problems include attendance, fake universities, collaboration of various MHRD websites,   and others,” said Preetham Kumar, single point of contact for Hackathon and deputy registrar - academics (technical), Manipal University, Manipal.
 
 N Gopunath, joint secretary, south regional office, UGC, said that all the participants will be judged by judges from various software industries. Thje first three winners will be awarded with Rs 1 lakh, Rs 75,000 and Rs 50,000 respectively after the event. Apart from it, their ideas will be adopted by the government departments and develop them further.
 
 Across India, about 10,000 youngsters from 26 colleges are racking their brains over 598 problem statements put forth by the various central government ministries and departments such as; Isro, ministry of defence, UGC and others covering all aspects that need to be addressed to digitize India, said Anand Shah, deputy director, AICTE, New Delhi.
 
