CHENNAI: As protests against the proposed hydrocarbon exploration and extraction project at Neduvasal village in Pudukkottai district of Tamil Nadu picked up pace, minister for shipping Pon   on Monday said it would be implemented only after views of the people in the region were obtained.

 Quoting minister of state for petroleum and natural gas Dharmendra Pradhaan, Radhakrishnan said an assessment would be made on the environment impact if any from the project and the benefits accrued to the people before it is implemented.Six other states were gearing for similar projects, Pradhan apparently told Pon Radhakrishnan.
 
 “Minister   has assured me that there will not be any problem because of the project. He said groundwater would not be affected nor will there be any impact on agriculture,“ Radhakrishnan told reporters in New Delhi after calling on chief minister   at Tamil Nadu House.
 
 Palaniswami was in New Delhi to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi and hand over a memorandum in which he has raised several issues pertaining to Tamil Nadu, including the growing protests in the state against the hydrocarbon project. He urged Modi to instruct the petroleum ministry to make any further move on the project “only after adequate consultation with the stakeholders“ and to ensure that the interests of the farmers were fully safeguarded.
 
 During his 30-minute discussion with Modi at the latter's official residence, Palaniswami took up the issue of exploration project of ONGC, which has spiralled into a major controversy over the last week, setting off protests from the local community . During his 30-minute dis cussion with Modi at the latter's official resi dence, Palaniswami took up the issue of the   exploration project, which has spiraled into a major controversy over the past week, setting off protests from the local community . “It will not be advisable for ONGC to proceed with any mining activity in Neduvasal village without clearance from the state government,“ Palaniswami said.
 
 In a media briefing later, Palaniswami said former chief minister J Jayalalithaa was a strident critic of the ministry's coal bed methane project in Cauvery delta region, which would jeopardize the livelihood of farmers.
 
 “We will continue our journey on the path shown by Amma [Jayalalithaa],“ Palaniswami said, adding that Modi has promised early action on the issues he raised.
 
