BENGALURU: The 2013   was an open-and-shut case.Investigators had CCTV footage from the  , showing the culprit attacking a woman banker with a machete. The attacker had also fled with the woman's cell phone.

 The probe into the attack could have been a prime example of how technology-enabled investigation could succeed, but sleuths failed to make headway after some initial success.
 
 True to what they are good at, Bengaluru police investigated the ATM attack case with emphasis on technology .
 
 Tracking signals from Jyothi's cellphone, the technical cell of the   managed to zero in on the device in Hindupur, Anantapur district. Several teams were sent to Andhra Pradesh to track these leads. Investigators did recover the instrument from a cell phone dealer to whom the attacker had sold the phone.
 
 Bengaluru police rushed several teams which fanned out over large swathes of Andhra Pradesh. But investigation now reveals that the attacker,  , had in fact gone to Kerala. He had shaved his head and worked as a painter, while Bengaluru cops were focusing on Andhra Pradesh, in what was touted as one of the largest manhunts carried out by the guardians of law from Karnataka.
 
 Finally, an Andhra Pradesh policeman's alertness is what led to Madhukar Reddy's arrest. Spotting a man hanging around a jewellery shop in Madanapalle in a suspicious manner, the policeman picked him up and took him to the police station. It was not long before the man, Madhukar Reddy, began singing and AP police realized they had cracked the ATM attack case.
 
 Retired police officers feel that as much as there is a focus on technology, which is a need, attempts should be made to enhance human intelli gence gathering.
 
 “We call it a policeman's intuition, where cops can find a criminal in the crowd. It's no magic gift but the result of years of training. Technology is good, but we should train our policemen to investigate cases in old policing methods as well,“ said a retired DGP.
 
 However, senior police officers who worked on the case claimed that the arrest in Andhra Pradesh didn't mean Bengaluru police didn't work hard on the case. “We had gone through several evidences to get a bearing on his movement.It was not just technology based but we checked for suspicious people and even checked habitual offenders,“ said a senior IPS officer
 
