The Border Security Force’s Frontier Headquarters in   is barely an hour’s drive from the Indo-Pak border. The tensions between the two countries and the proximity to the conflict mean that the mood at the camp is almost always sombre, say the jawans. And on Tuesday also, the environment in the HQ was charged, but for a highly unusual visitor. The BSF jawans rolled out the red carpet for  , who was promoting her upcoming war drama ' '.
 
  
  Here comes the star: Kangana Ranaut arrives at the BSF’s Frontier Headquarters, driven by Commandant DS Sandhu (BCCL/Abhimanyu Mathur)
 
  
  Kangana salutes the martyrs at the BSF camp’s Shaheed Smarak (BCCL)
 
 
  
  Miss Julia meets the troops: Kangana interacts with jawans and officials
 
 
 
 On arriving at the headquarters, Kangana waved past cheering jawans and students of the BSF’s school in an open Gypsy, flanked by gun-toting BSF personnel . The actress then met the wives of the jawans, answering questions ranging from her fitness secret to her cooking prowess. This was followed by an engaging session where the jawans saw clips from Rangoon and had a candid interaction with the actress. When a jawan complained that women didn’t want to marry men from the armed forces anymore, the actress replied in surprise, “Koi bewakoof hi ladki hogi jo fauji ko reject karegi. I, for one, find men in uniform very attractive and full of integrity.” When asked what she was looking for in her ideal jeevansaathi, Kangana quipped, “Who knows, I might find him here today!”
 
  
  Thumkas with the jawans: Kangana danced to 'Bloody Hell' with the soldiers (BCCL/ Abhimanyu Mathur)
 
  
  
  Bhangra time: Kangana breaks into a jig with PS Dhiman, DIG, BSF (BCCL/ Abhimanyu Mathur)
 
 
 
 The enthused jawans did everything to impress Kangana. Assistant Commandant Pushpendra Kumar sang a Jammu version of 'London Thumakda', singing “Tu Kangana Rangoon di, poora Jammu thumakda.” But the jawans weren’t content with merely dancing by themselves, and insisted that Kangana join them for 'Bloody Hell', a track from Rangoon where she performs for Army troops.
 
  
  (Left) Ram Awtar, IG, BSF, watching Rangoon’s trailer with Kangana (BCCL/Abhimanyu Mathur)
 
 The female jawans and officers were particularly excited about Kangana’s visit, with many saying that it was the first time they had seen an actress visit a camp so close to the border. Rekha, a woman constable, told us, “Akshay Kumar had come to the camp last year, but no actress has ever been here. I feel proud that a female actor is here among us and talking to us so nicely.”
 
  
  Kangana is flanked by BSF jawans and officials
 
 
 Pleasantly surprised at the warm reception, Kangana said, “I’m so happy that my work has brought me here today and I’m able to spend some time with the real heroes of the country”. She added, “After working in Rangoon, I realised how harsh the conditions are for the men and women who live in places so close to the border, where the fighting takes place daily. That’s what prompted me to come here.” 
 
 
