NAGPUR: After six private players responded to the offer to privatize Nagpur airport, M/s Ideal Road Builders (IRB) Group has practically dropped out of the deal. Floated by Mumbai businessman Dattatrey Mahiskar, IRB Group has a major stake in infrastructure business and had built the Mumbai-Pune Expressway. The promoters are known to be close to union surface transport minister  .

 Global  , a company in which Mahiskar is a director, was in the news four years ago as a loan by it of Rs164 crore was found in the books of Purti Group, formed by Gadkari. Mahiskar also has subscribed shares in   too.
 
 In October 2016, six companies had responded to the request for qualification (RFQ) called by Mihan India Limited (MIL), the current operator of Nagpur airport. These included Essel Group, IRB, GVK, GMR Tata Realty, and PNC Infrastructure. 
 
 RFQ is the process of shortlisting the candidates. Based on the documents submitted by contenders in a RFQ, firms are chosen to offer financial bids under the request for proposal (RFP). 
 
 Before going for the RFPs, a clearance is required from the ministry of home affairs (MHA) for the bidding companies and its directors. All the bidders for the RFQ, except IRB Group, have submitted their documents for MHA verification.
 
 Sources following the developments said the company was given repeated reminders to submit the documents, but it did not respond. Finally, MIL sent the documents of the other five companies for MHA clearance. IRB has been intimated that now it is out of the race for Nagpur airport.
 
 The company did not respond even when it was informed that it is now out of the race, said a source. Officials of IRB have admitted in informal discussions that the company is no longer interested in the project, sources said.
 
 MIL is expecting to get the draft document for RFP from the consultants by next week. The bids will be called for soon after the MHA clearance. The clearance is mandatory, which includes verifying credentials of all directors of the company, said a source.
 
 MIL, which is a joint venture of state government-owned MADC and   (AAI), plans to offload its 74% stake to a private player. The bids will be based on the revenue share offered to MIL for running the airport.
 
