The   set the bar high on the opening day, when in an act of thrilling heterodoxy, Shakespeare was thrown into the grinder and came out covered in mud, sweat and grit. But the organisers need not have worried, for   and Malini Awasthi regaled the weekend audience with songs of love, hope and humanity, in a setting – the Aravali Biodiversity Park – that continues to win new converts.

 On that first night, the cool winds that lashed the amphitheatre also threatened rain (those who prefer their Shakespeare wrapped in convention might have felt the chilly blasts more). Mercifully, the rain stayed away, and the unusual nip in the March air did little to stop Sangari and Awasthi from pouring their hearts out to a crowd eager to drink – in sips, in gulps – the melodic draughts.
 
 Sangari, who also goes by the name of Bilal Chishty, was all soul and spark on day two, evoking the spirit of Nusrat Fateh Ali Khan (and even the Grateful Dead, in the jam-happy way of his band, the Rooh Sufi ensemble).
 
 Listening to Sangari is like allowing oneself to be immersed in the many diverse strands of India’s musical heritage. He has a grounding in Hindustani classical music, and sat at the feet of the master (the incomparable Nusrat) as he embarked on a personal journey into the heart of the Sufi tradition. A Raag Bahar, mellifluous in its rendering, set the tone for the evening beautifully, while in the Raag Basant that followed, there was a tenderness that would have moved even a cynic and a misanthrope.
 
 The rest of the evening was spent in the embrace of the poetry of Amir Khusro and Bulleh Shah, compositions like ‘Chhap tilak’ and ‘Dama dam mast qalandar’ flowing into each other as a river flows into the ocean, at times quietly, at others thunderously. The mystics of old would have smiled. 
 
 On the final day, as a resplendent moon looked down upon the venue, Awasthi’s energy, charm and common touch were lapped up by a crowd in the mood for some Holi revelry. Awasthi is an entertainer in the best senses of the word, an empathetic performer who makes everyone feel as if she’s singing for them. She was in their midst, literally, engaging with them, joshing with them, reaching out to their best selves.
 
 Awasthi was especially keen to pay tribute to the girl child, dusting off heartfelt and celebratory ditties sung whenever a girl is born. She made music history sound fun, and weaved anecdotes and humour into a set that mined the folk songbook. Backed by her spirited seven-piece, Awasthi brought ‘Railiya bairan (piya ko liye jaye re)’ roaring and chugging to life. If there is strife in the world today, she made everyone forget about it over the course of three wonderful hours, bringing the curtain down with an exuberance that proved utterly infectious. 
 
 
