PUDUCHERRY: Lt governor   has sought a thorough CBI probe into the alleged malpractices in the admission of students into   courses under management quota in private medical institutions for the academic year 2016-17 in the Union territory of Puducherry.

 Bedi’s reaction comes a day after   published an article (on September 16) on three private medical colleges in Puducherry admitting 186 students, who had not even applied for admission in those colleges for MBBS last year under management quota. 
 
 “Justice demands that CBI investigates and chargesheet all responsible for creating this situation,” she said. Bedi also asked the central vigilance commission to undertake a detailed inquiry into the negligence of all officers of the territorial administration.
 
 Chairperson of the permanent admission committee and Madras high court former judge Chitra Venkataraman, in a report dated October 19 last year and addressed to the chief secretary, listed out serious lapses in the admission process in three private medical colleges and asked the Puducherry government to take appropriate action.
 
 The government did not initiate any action on Justice's report. The   issued a notice on September 7, 2017 directing the government and institutions to discharge 770-odd MBBS students, who were not allotted seats through centralized admission committee (Centac). The MCI sought the government and institutions to send a compliance report within two weeks from the date of the order being dispatched.
 
 Bedi while responding to chief minister V Narayanasamy's charge that she has been blocking development projects for the Union territory asked him to list them out.
 
 "Would be happy to know from the honourable chief minister which development and whose development is he talking about? I am here for the good of Puducherry and its people. I will be happy to know of any productive project which was within the financial capability of approved financial budget that I held back. The chief minister may please make it public,” she said,
 
 Bedi maintained that it is her duty as an administrator with financial responsibilities not to approve any wasteful expenditure to save Puducherry from growing debt burden. She said she had been urging the government to improve its administrative management and financial recoveries.
 
 “I have been applying my mind on every file without any delay, unlike the chief minister’s office where either I get no reply or receive files sometimes after nearly one year. I have informed the Union home ministry about this,” she said.
 
