It’s the season that marks the triumph of good over evil, and what better way to celebrate that than by burning the evil incarnate, Ravana, himself? Is it any wonder then that the first thing that comes to mind at the mention of Dasara is ‘Ravan Dahan’ — the burning of Ravana’s effigy, which draws Hyderabadis by the hordes on   every year. 

 
 While the Ravan Dahan happens at many a galli and nukkad in Hyderabad, the big ticket events that attract hundreds of city folk who gather to watch giant Ravanas being reduced to ashes are centred around Pedda Amberpet,   Exhibition Grounds, Borabanda, Nizam College Grounds etc. And the orders have been coming in thick and fast, says effigy maker Prakash of Dhoolpet. “People ask for 
 effigies in all sizes, from 10 ft to 50 ft. it usually takes us around one month to two-and-a-half months to complete the work. This season, we have made 15 effigies so far for clients from Nampally, Fatehnagar, Kukatpally, Kali Mandir, and  . We have been providing the effigy to the Exhibition Grounds at Nampally for the past 45 years.” 
 
 Elaborating on the material that goes into the making of the Ravana effigies, Prakash says, “We use paper, bamboo, cane, aata and wood primarily for making the structures. They are then handed over to the clients who stuff them with hay, crackers and other items of their choice. People want their Ravana to be as colourful as possible, so we use orange, dark blue, yellow and pink paper.”
 So, has GST affected this year’s sales in any ways? “I make both small and big idols from 5 ft to 20 ft and charge `5,000 for a 5ft idol and `25,000 for a 20 ft idol. GST had no effect on my business this time as i had already bought the materials in advance, but the rise in transportation expenses has made it slightly costlier,” says Ramakrishna, an artisan from Masab Tank. The slight hike in prices have not dented the sales though, says Raju PS, an artist from Balanagar. “This year, the prices of effigies range from `12,000 to `30,000. Thankfully, GST had no effect on the sales,” he adds. 
 
 
 While the organisers of the Ravan Dahan at Pedda Amberpet say they aren’t competing with others to set up the biggest Ravana, fact remains that their effigies are usually the biggest in the city. “Our Ravana stands 35 ft tall this year. There is no competition as such because this is a festival that celebrates the victory of good over evil. However, we usually go for giant Ravanas. Last year too we set up a 35-ft one,” says Shankar, a member of the Amberpet committee. 
 
 
 While Dasara is not just about Ravan Dahan, it’s an important ritual, points out Govind Rathi, secretary of Rajasthani Pragati Samaj, which has been organising the festival at Exhibition Grounds, Nampally for the last four decades. “Dasara is not just about Ravan Dahan. But this is the perfect chance to pass on our customs and conventions to the next generation. For this reason, we have cultural programmes, kavi sammelan, Ramayana quizzes apart from the Ravan Dahan. All of these add to the festive vibe of Dasara,” he says. 
 One major changes in recent times is that the event is now receiving government patronage, adds Rathi: “The new government has been sponsoring the ‘stage’ for the event at Nampally for the past three years. I hope they do this for all the events across the city. I hope Dasara will also be declared a state festival along the lines of Bathukamma.” 
 
 
