BATHINDA: The rousing cry "bole so nihal, sat sri akal" goes up as Harsimrat Kaur Badal, Union minister, Bathinda MP and Badal bahu, glides up in her convoy of SUVs. She's campaigning hard through rural Bathinda, determined to deliver all 9 of her assembly segments. A sea of blue, red and orange turbans have amassed at Samaon village. The Sikh vote bank of the Akali Dal roars as she appears, "Shiromani Akali Dal zindabad." 

 "Strengthen Badal sahib's hand," she exhorts the crowd, " this election is an opportunity and a challenge for you. Are you going to let a topiwali party win here? Someone who doesn't know Punjabi, doesn't know about your pind (village) or your religion?   kaun hai?" The crowd titters.
  
 Dressed in an elegant pink embroidered salwar kameez with her head demurely covered in a pink silk dupatta, Harsimrat Kaur exudes positive energy. But isn't she worried about the anti-incumbency sweeping Punjab in this election when not many are giving the BJP-SAD government a chance? "What anti-incumbency?" she demands. "Look at the size of this crowd. We are not fighting this election on a note of helplessness, we are fighting to win. We are going to the people on the basis of the work we've done."
  
 But what about the drugs and the corruption charges? "What drugs? The drug issue has been vastly exaggerated. Punjab produces almost half of India's foodgrain, would farmers be able to work if drugs were so rampant?" She points out that in a random dope test of youth being recruited for the police only a minuscule percentage tested positive. She scoffs at the corruption charges against her family and against her brother, Bikram Singh Majithia. "Try telling the crowd about corruption, they will not believe you. Where are the corruption charges? There is not a single corruption charge against us. They said we are pocketing the money meant for farmers. If we were doing so would the Punjab farmers have stayed quiet? They would have been on the streets."
  
 She says the reason why these allegations are being made is because of the work that the Akali Dal has done. Punjab now has a steady supply of electricity and Harsimrat points out that the state's rankings in education standards have improved dramatically, as has the road network system. She gestures at the overwhelmingly Sikh crowd holding up saffron coloured Akali Dal flags, "our core vote is not going anywhere. They are 100 per cent with us."
  
 She sits under a pink and white shamiana while residents flock to her with petitions and requests. She directs a job seeker to one of her assistants. She garlands another, pointing out that he's a new entrant to the SAD from the Congress. 
 
 Why has the BJP-SAD government failed to generate employment in Punjab? "Unemployment is a problem across the world. Why single out Punjab? But we are trying. Last year my husband gave one lakh people government jobs." She points at women constables. "Look at those policewomen. It was we who started giving jobs to women in the police."
  
 But the   seems confident in the Malwa region with their aggressive high voltage campaigning. "AAP are opportunists," says Harsimrat. "Have they delivered on any of their promises in Delhi? I tell people to go their website and see which promises were made in Delhi and which ones were actually fulfilled. When the AAP talks about our so-called corruption, the people simply don't believe it."
  
 Harsimrat believes it was the AAP that was behind the desecration incidents of the Guru Granth Sahib, incidents that have fired up so many Sikhs. Was her government wrong to have ordered police firing? "They had launched a political movement through these tactics," she says, "there are Khalistanis and criminal elements with them. There was a Sarbat Khalsa website that was created that was fanning sentiments against us. Now that website has mysteriously disappeared."
  
 She says her work with women, particularly her Nanhi Chhan initiative_a programme which aims to curb female foeticide as well as environmental degradation by distributing saplings to parents of baby girls_ has made her popular with women. "Women come out wherever I go. In some villages they don't call me by my name, they call me Nanhi Chhan." A group of women cluster around her as she interacts with the villagers. Will they vote for her? " We are always with the Shiromani Akali Dal," they giggle. 
  
 Harsimrat believes the Akalis will win because of the three way contest this time. "A three cornered race is always good for us," she says. "They (Congress and AAP) are going to cut each other and we're coming back." She says the rivalry with between Navjot Singh Sidhu and Captain Amarinder Singh will weaken the Congress and the Aam Aadmi Party is going nowhere in Punjab without a tall Sikh face. "Has Captain saab done any real work for Punjab?" she yells at the crowd. She tells TOI: "Why don't people look at Amarinder Singh's links with the ISI through his Pakistani friend Arusa? Why don't they look at the fact that Jarnail Singh's (AAP candidate from the Badal stronghold of Lambi) own brother is a Khalistan supporter?"
  
 Are the villagers impressed with the work the Akali Dal has done? "Yes, there is electricity here," says Naunihal Singh, standing a little apart from the crowd with a gang of young people on cycles. "but look at our village road. Its still kachcha. Its not been repaired yet." Cuts in his companion, "You can never say what will happen in this election. Sardar Sukhbir Singh Badal is a very powerful leader." Harsimrat ends her speech and the cry goes up again, "Wahe guru ji ka khalsa, wahe guru ji ki fateh!". Sikh and Punjabi identity are to the forefront at this rally for the Badal bahu: the Akali Dal voter has gathered in numbers to show his allegiance to Prakash Singh Badal's party. This is the time for you to work hard, she urges party workers, clearly aware of the challenge ahead.
  
 Speech and interaction over, she's quickly encircled by her gunmen and makes her way back to her waiting convoy. Is she always regarded as the daughter in-law here? "This is my second term, I know this area very well," she smiles. "they all know me. I have come here many times." `Bibba Harsimrat Kaur zindabad' shouts the crowd as she steps into her car. "They call me Bibba," she calls out to TOI. "And that means good girl." 
 
 
