Nagpur: The iconic dome (stupa) of Deeskhabhoomi, which is the unofficial mascot of the city, will now get global recognition as it adorns the postal stamp. 

 It will be a double delight for the city when Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday is expected to release two stamps — one depicting Deekshabhoomi in its full glory and the other with twin pictures of Gautam Buddha and Babasaheb Ambedkar. The final nod was given by PMO on Wednesday.
 
 A much elated Bhushan Dadve, city BJP’s vice-president and a ‘Dalit-mitra’, who had been pursuing the matter with PMO for over one year said it was almost a roller-coaster ride till the official letter he received as late as April 7 from Dheeraj Kumar, deputy director general (philately). The letter indicated that the Prime Minister would be releasing two stamps during his visit to the city.
 
 “It came as a pleasant surprise. Originally I had in my proposal sent only one picture that carried picture of Deekshabhoomi memorial structure flanked by inset snaps of Buddha and Ambedkar. But the officials wrote to me if it would be OK if two separate stamps were designed. I accepted gladly,” recounted Dadve.
 
 “Initially they had set a condition that it could be printed only if I committed to purchase of one lakh of prints. When I pursued the matter with PMO, Union minister Nitin Gadkari the condition was waived,” added Dadve.
 
 As per the latest official communication, the stamp release would be done at the Mankapur stadium function by the PM. But a stall selling the two stamps — each of Rs5 value — along with first-day cover and literature would be set up at Deekshabhoomi.
 
 At the Niti-Ayog organized function at Mankapur, over 3,000 special invitees, mostly elite and professionals would be seated inside the indoor stadium. But to include the masses, the BJP has got permission to put up two huge pandals adjacent to the stadium where at least 10,000 people could be seated and be able to view the function beamed on large screens.
 
 Modi will also launch the ambitious ‘home for all by 2022’ scheme under Pradhan Mantri Awaas Yojana by performing groundbreaking for 21 projects coming up in state under which 42,000 affordable houses are to be built. The state agency MHADA will execute the projects for which the government is providing 460 acres land spread over 24 locations across the state. These houses are to be built within 36 months.
 
 
