THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state government will soon bring in a mechanism to regulate the escalating treatment costs in the private sector, governor   said here on Thursday.

 Addressing the opening day of the fourth session of the 14th  , Sathasivam said that several complaints are being reported about the indiscriminate prescription of investigations, procedures and medications in at least some of the private hospitals.
 
 “At a time when the health care expenses are already very high, such actions will only further the miseries caused to the general public. My government will ensure that there are regulations on making prescriptions and will streamline the costs as well. A regulatory mechanism will be devised in this regard,” said the Governor.
 
 Apart from this, the government has assured the introduction of a health insurance cover for all in the state. One district hospital in each district will be upgraded to provide super specialty services. One taluk hospital in every taluk will be upgraded to provide specialty services. Cardiac catheterisation facility will be established in eight district hospitals and dialysis facilities made available in 44 taluk hospitals.
 
 To reduce mortality and disability from stroke, stroke management centres will be set up in all district hospitals. Palliative chemotherapy for   patients will also be made available at district hospitals. Government will implement a comprehensive emergency management system, including ambulances for evacuation with emergency medical technicians and trauma centres.
 
 Primary health centres will be strengthened to become family health centres as part of the core strategy for achieving sustainable development goals. For this purpose, sufficient number of posts of doctors, staff nurses and lab technicians will be created. Health action plans would be prepared for the urban and rural local self-governments.
 
 The government will also set up a personalized medicine research laboratory at the Malabar Cancer Centre.
 
