THANE: Two containers stocked with over 1,000 litres of   packaged as a branded product, was seized by the   from the   just as it was to be shipped out to the Gulf late on Wednesday.

 The police carried out the operation along with the officers from the customs department and seized nearly 1361 litres of oil cans which is worth over Rs 41 lakh, said a senior official.
 
 TOI was the first to report on the bust which is internationally linked to the  . 
 
 It was last week on Wednesday, that the crime branch unit-1 raided a Automorse company which is an oil manufacturing company located at MIDC area of Ambernath which was illegally manufactured low-grade   and lubricants and exported them under popular brand names. Police then seized engine oil worth nearly Rs 1.82 lakh and arrested two persons. 
 
 “Based on the interrogation of the duo found that the company had manufactured spurious oil and recently it had already dispatched a consignment via sea-route to and that it was set to be exported to Gulf countries,” said Parag Manere, the deputy commissioner of police (crime).
 
 A team after making several inquiries tracked the movements of the consignment and finally learnt that it was located near Uran port. Hence, a team along with the customs officers waylaid it and seized the consignment, said Nitin Thakre, the senior inspector.
 
 Upon carrying out the detailed search and panchanama, the police found nearly 1361 litres of oil packs under the name of Gulf oil worth over Rs 40.61 lakh was stock inside the containers and were Gulf-bound. 
 
 The police said that the main accused in the case are still absconding and a team has been on the move to track them. “It is suspected that there could be more such links and network of the oil company which is presently under probe. But this seems to be the well-oiled cartel right from manufacturing, transportation to exporting and very well connected with international links to gulf countries,” said Ranveer Bayas, the investigation officer.
 
