BENGALURU: A quick stroll around   in the early hours of the day revealed what usually goes unnoticed. Stinking piles of unsegregated garbage at street corners, in empty plots, on pavements in front of markets, and the so-called “segregation” sites. Residents are so used to the sight and smell that they don’t even care to look twice. Just that they all have to cover their nose while walking past these eyesores. 

 For instance, in ward number 123 waste of all kind is mixed together in the wet waste compressor parked on the main road. “Now, it’s still better. Earlier, it was worse. They pourakarmikas would never segregate the waste. Even if we do, I don’t know how they eventually dump it,” says R S Prakash, a senior citizen who lives down the road.
 
 Waste generated from wards 124, 125 and 105 is all collected in ward number 123 from where it is further segregated. According to sanitation workers at the segregation site, wet waste is dumped at Doddabidarakallu, and dry waste goes to Bellahalli near Yelahanka. Sidhesh, a junior health inspector supervising the site, says it’s tough to implement segregation rules immediately, as residents of ward 123 are yet to get two separate bins to segregate their waste. 
 
 “We have been trying to tell people to segregate, but we aren’t authorized to give them dustbins. We have installed mikes and made pamphlets, and will soon spread the word through these mediums. Residents have also been informed through other media,” he says.
 
 The waste segregation room behind Hosahalli Metro station (ward no. 123) is used to store and sell items segregated by BBMP workers. While plastic bottles, cardboard boxes, large plastic bags are all stacked up neatly at the centre, the real work happens on the road. Mohammed Imran, the site supervisor, says ensuring segregation isn’t his job. “Our job is different. The pourakarmikas are supposed to segregate waste, while we prepare to sell the segregated stuff,” he said.
 
 In ward 105 along Gayathri Hospital Road, things are even worse. Smoke emanates from a spot behind the segregation room, which happens to be at one end of a park. The park has just one gazebo and nothing more, and a portion of it has been appropriated to burn the locality’s waste.
 
 On 20th Main Road, opposite Foodland Restaurant (ward no. 125), people have been dumping garbage at a private site. The owner also hasn’t cared to secure the spot. Residents complain that they themselves have taken sick dogs and cows to vets after these animals got infected munching on garbage from the site.
 
 “Last year, the residents got together to paint the site’s boundary wall red. We even put up some quotes to prevent people from littering. For a week we patrolled the place, but soon after residents started dumping garbage here. In fact, people from surrounding buildings dump garbage right from their balconies,” said Sachin S, a resident of the locality.
 
 BETTER OF THE LOT
 
 The one ward that is somewhat clean is 104. The pavements aren’t as filthy, and at least there is some sort of segregation happening here. Even though the segregation centre borders a park, in this case, there’s at least a wall to separate the two. “Our ward corporator (Umesh Shetty) regularly comes and inspects work, and ensures the locality is clean,” said  , a resident.
 
