The Indian men’s hockey team has been training in Bengaluru for nearly a year and a half, and because of the amount of time that they have spent here, it has become a second home to many. A typical day at the Sports Authority of India (SAI), where the men in blue train and stay, begins at 7 am, when they have breakfast, hit the gym by 8 am and work out till around 10.30 am. It is between this time and their evening training session that begins around 5 pm that they either play ludo, video games, dance, sing and generally hang out together. After a rigorous practice session on Saturday mornings, they are allowed to go out after lunch and return on Sunday evening. And that is when they like visiting premium malls in the city, dining out and patiently posing for selfies with fans.

 
 
 When compared to training camps in cities like Delhi and  , the hockey team prefers Bengaluru, mainly because of its temperate climate and the fact that SAI has all the facilities that the players need within the campus itself. “The main advantage that Bengaluru has is the weather. Apart from that, the campus and the facilities within it are good. When we were training in Delhi, we had to travel a lot, which ate into our rest period, but that’s not the case here,” says Bengaluru boy  , who enjoys other advantage as well here. “In some way it helps being a local boy as I can do other normal things and come back refreshed for the training session. I usually go back home to be with my family and go out with friends. Sometimes I take my teammates out as well; I am close with Akash (Chikte) and Raman ( ), so they accompany me at times. It’s fun being in Bengaluru,” he adds.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 That SAI is on the outskirts of the city serves as an advantage to the players.   explains that the travel to and from the city center can serve as a deterrent to going out, which is a good thing since that means that the players get to rest well and perform better. “We don’t get too much time to go out. Saturday is rest day, but training is hard and we need to recover. So, players in my age group avoid going out too much; we may do so once in 2-3 weeks. Going anywhere takes a minimum of 45 minutes, and coming back can take longer. When you go to a mall, you have to walk around, so all that gets tiring. It’s good that we can’t really go anywhere, which makes many of us pick rest over venturing out,” he says.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 But that doesn’t keep the younger boys from exploring all that the city has to offer. Rupinder Pal Singh, the poster boy of Indian hockey, likes hanging out at an upscale mall on  , where he and teammates shop and dine. “We go out almost every Saturday for dinner. Training is pretty intense, so we rest in the afternoon and only venture out around 5 pm or 6 pm. We usually go to the mall and stay there till dinner and return around 9.30 pm,” he says. But don’t the strapping young men go to parties at the many famed night spots in the city? “No. We don’t go to party places and prefer to just hang around at the mall instead,” Rupinder adds. Considering the fame that the men enjoy, people often go up to the players to say words of encouragement, before stopping to click pictures and asking for autographs. All this translates to encouragement. “The people in Bengaluru are very friendly and the atmosphere is very nice. We are getting recognized everywhere we go and that motivates us to work harder,” he says.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Back at SAI, after practice every day, when the team goes back to their rooms, they play songs on a woofer which the dancers of the team — usually Harjeet Singh, Talwinder Singh,  , Manpreet Singh and   — groove to. Many times, others take videos and post them on their social media pages. “This is how we chill out,” says Harjeet, adding, “No matter how rigorous practice is, this is how we de-stress. And it helps our game. Sometimes, you may not perform well during practice, and that remains on your mind. But once we are done and our dancing sessions begin, we forget all about it.” So, is the music primarily Punjabi? “Yes, we are getting to listen to a lot of Punjabi music, and we enjoy it. But we play our music as well,” says Nikkin, who joins in on the fun with his teammates and shakes a leg to Bhangra music as well.
 When they are not dancing, they are either playing ludo or video games, where competition is fierce as they play football league matches between each other, on which bets are placed. The loser has to perform tasks, such as washing clothes! Ask the boys who gets ragged the most and they all sheepishly point towards Mandeep. “But that’s only because he is the friendliest guy and he can take a joke,” says Manpreet.
 While Harmanpreet is a good singer, Harjeet is not just a good dancer, but makes the best chai. “If he opens a tea stall, there will be a long queue of people waiting outside it. He will put the big cafés out of business,” jokes Manpreet. 
 
