GURGAON: A   and a hosiery cluster will be set up in Haryana’s Panipat and Sirsa districts, respectively, Union textiles minister Smriti Irani announced on the concluding day of Pravasi Haryana Divas on Wednesday. The two clusters are expected to augment the potential of the state’s   sector, she said.

 Irani said the Union government will support the state government in setting up a Trade Facility Centre in Panipat. “We will support a major design initiative so that Panipant can graduate from a weaving hub to a major textile centre. It will also help the second and third generation weavers take the legacy of Panipat forward,” she said.
 
 Shifting her focus to Sirsa, which produces about 40% of cotton in Haryana, the minister said, “If we seek to enlarge the component of the industry and strengthen the base in conjunction with farmers, I am hopeful that, we in the Union government, with the support of the government of Haryana, can soon open a special hosiery cluster only for the district of Sirsa so that the state could have more and more employment opportunities.”
 
 Lauding the contribution of Gurgaon in the export of ready-made garments, Irani said most of the prominent ready-made garment companies of the world have their offices in the district. “Gurgaon contributes Rs 19,000 crore in export of cloths,” Irani said, adding the city can easily have integrated design and manufacturing centres for readymade garments.
 
 Union steel minister Chaudhary Birender Singh, who was also present at the event, said that India is currently the third largest producer of steel, followed by Japan, but as per the recent data, India would surpass Japan in steel production in the coming few months. “Soon the government is coming up with a policy for production of steel from scrap, which will encourage setting up of scrap-based steel production units, which will be environment-friendly,” he said.
 
 On his part, state industries and commerce minister Vipul Goel said the state government is working on two dedicated policies for   handset and electronic goods manufacturing units in Haryana.
 
 “Some of the mobile handset manufacturing companies are already in talks with the state government. They have conveyed to us some of their issues and we intend to address them out in the new policy,” he said.
 
 
