LUCKNOW: After a humiliating defeat in the state elections, chief minister   Yadav now faces the next big question: What next? Akhilesh is not a member of the UP assembly and his role in state politics -- as member of the legislative council -- will be considerably limited. Party sources said that with just one year of his term as MLC left, Akhilesh may look for a “more visible” role, either inside UP, where he can consolidate his position keeping 2019 in mind, or, look for bigger opportunities in Delhi, through the Rajya Sabha route. 

  Much, though, will depend on the Samajwadi Party’s   meeting on March 25, where insiders say, all possibilities will be up for discussion, not only for the incumbent CM, but also for the   at large. An internal churning in the SP cannot be ruled out either, keeping in mind a segment of leaders in the SP who have held Akhilesh responsible for the poll debacle and have demanded that the reins of the party be handed back to SP patriarch  , say the sources. “If that happens, Akhilesh will have to reassess his role in the party as well as in electoral politics,” a senior party functionary said. 
 
 Regardless of the outcome of the March 25 meet, analysts say this is clearly not the end of the road for the UP CM. Sources close to Akhilesh say that he has many options. If he wants to strengthen his hold over organisational and state politics, Akhilesh needs to be present in the UP Assembly. Since he did not contest, he can wait for a by-poll and contest to enter, or, he can get one of the incumbent SP MLAs to resign and contest. 
 
 Sources also suggest that the SP chief might consider getting himself propped up into the Rajya Sabha. That option, though, is less likley as it will involve a relatively longer wait, considering the next round of RS vacancies will only crop up in April 2018, when six SP MPs, including Jaya Bachchan, will retire. Even then, with a strength of only 47 MLAs in the UP assembly, the Samajwadi Party will only be able to send just one person to the upper house. 
 
 
