Notes of western classical music filled the air recently at the Rajiv Gandhi Indoor Stadium, as  , a musical event, was presented. 

 The crowd that gathered was treated to a profusion of musical notes at the event, conducted as part of the 90th anniversary celebrations of St Mary’s Orthodox Cathedral.
 A vast variety of instruments — wind, string and percussion — were part of the recitals which were themed on the song of an Indian cuckoo, known as the Vishuppakshi. From the time Jesus Christ was born to his resurrection, the songs become a reflection of the era, as seen through the eyes of the bird. 
 
 The performance brought together more than 160 artists, with Father M P George, who has also composed it, turning to be the music conductor. He says, “I have tried to present the orchestra by adapting it to the Indian context, including ragas derived from Carnatic and North Indian music.” Suriyani music also found its way into the compositions. Around seven songs, which include devotional and patriotic songs, were performed as part of the symphony. 
 
 Veteran musician KJ  , who made his presence felt at the event, mesmerised the audience with the song Jaathi Bhetham. “Music often evokes God’s presence, and it is the divinity that musicians often spread through songs,” he said. 
 Shobha Jacob, a teacher who was part of the audience, said that this has been an unusual experience for her and she thoroughly enjoyed the musical journey. She added, “Though I am not proficient in western music, it sure got me excited and I stayed glued to the seat.”
 Each song was as different from the other, capturing moods such as the joy during the birth of Jesus, a sense of foreboding when King Herod demanded the death of infants, and pathos when Christ was crucified. 
 
 Dileep Mathulla, a businessman was seen tapping his hands to the music all through. 
 He said, “The orchestra, which was hitherto purely western, has been brought in line with Indian music. That’s the whole beauty of the performance. In addition to it, all of them are musically rich.” 
 
