NEW DELHI:   has finalised a strong line-up of   for the April polls, fielding 142 of them in the contest for the 272 seats of the three municipal corporations. Facing strong rivals in Congress and a BJP energised by the victory in UP assembly polls, AAP is perhaps gambling on the perception that women are more transparent and less corrupt as public leaders.

 While 138 seats are reserved for women, Ashish Talwar, AAP in-charge in Delhi, said that the party had gone a step further by fielding women candidates in general wards as well. “In some unreserved seats, women were the best among the options we had,” said Talwar.
 
 Some of the nominees are well known. Promila Gupta is one of them. The DCW member is standing from Timarpur. Gupta has worked on women-related issues such as rehabilitation of sex workers and on their helpline number 181. “I have been fighting for women for over 10 years. I want to take this to the next level and fight for more citizens,” she said.
 
 Another popular face is Poonam Bhardwaj, 35, who had won a seat in the SDMC in 2012 while contesting as an independent. AAP has fielded her from Rajnagar ward. “I stopped the fake attendance of sanitation workers and cracked down on corruption in the civic body,” Bhardwaj claimed. Besides fighting corruption and injecting transparency in the tendering of road projects, her poll planks include better sanitation services and making the corporation’s functions people-friendly.
 
 Complementing the effort of experienced campaigners will be first timers like 26-year-old Pooja Manish Jha, the candidate in Mubarakpur Dabas ward. As a student leader in SPM College in Punjabi Bagh, she had advocated women’s safety and sanitation in college. “I will take the cleanliness mission from college to my locality. Getting rid of corruption is also part of the cleanliness drive,” the DU graduate said. 
 
 Children’s right activist Swati Sachdeva, 30, from Model Town and former DCW member Juhi Khan from Sarita Vihar are among AAP’s other women contestants.
 
 
