CHENNAI: Two public interest writ petitions have been filed in the Madras high court seeking its direction to authorities to remove late   chief minister J Jayalalithaa’s   from government offices and welfare schemes such as salts and mineral water.

 The first bench comprising acting chief justice Huluvadi G Ramesh and Justice R Mahadevan has agreed to hear the cases at 2.15pm on Monday.
 
 The basis for both the PILs is the February 14, 2017 judgment of the   convicting Jayalalithaa’s three co-accused – V K Sasikalaa, J Ilavarasi and V N Sudhagaran – and sentencing them to undergo simple imprisonment for four years each while allowing the Karnataka government’s appeals against Jayalaltihaa alone to abate since she is no more.
 
 While one PIL has been filed by DMK legislator J Anbazhagan, the other one has been filed by advocate K Balu, president of the Pattali Makkal Katchi-affiliated Advocates Forum for Social Justice.
 
 Though Balu’s PIL was listed as the first item before the bench, Anbazhagan’s senior counsel and former additional solicitor-general of India P Wilson made a mention of the new PIL and requested that the bench hear it along with the listed one.
 
 In his PIL, Balu sought to restrain the government from using the photographs of   in government offices and to remove them from all government schemes. He also wanted no memorial be constructed for the late chief minister with public funds, on the ground that the Supreme Court had confirmed her guilt. Conspiracy charges too had been proved, he said. 
 
 Pointing out that the apex court had loaded a lot of adverse findings against Jayalalithaa, he said merely because the appeals against her had abated, it would not mean that she had either been acquitted or given a clean chit.
 
 Anbazhagan, on his part, referred to the government order (GO) No 457dated June 4, 2006 pertaining to display of portraits and photographs of serving and former chief ministers in government offices and said it could not be applied to Jayalalithaa since she had been ‘constitutionally condemned.’ 
 
 Since she was deemed to have been displaced by the operation of law, it would be impermissible to use her portraits along with other former chief ministers, in government offices and schemes, said his senior counsel.
 
 
 
 
