 I got into a relationship a few months back and things were going good until my   shared two painful things about her past. Firstly, she had a boyfriend before me with whom she was in a physical relationship, then after a few days she also told me that she used to consult a doctor for a psychological issue and she got into a physical relationship with the doctor as well. Both these things created deep anguish within me and I lost my inner strength completely because I wasn't able to accept it.

 I feel betrayed, have started feeling depressed and lost interest in life. Earlier, I was doing extraordinarily well in academics and now, I have lost interest in absolutely everything.
 
 Since I still love her deeply, I have tried to accept her past. But now, my girlfriend has put up a condition - she does not want any physical relationship between us even post marriage. She says her decision is final and thus, must be clearly conveyed to my parents, who have always been hoping for grandchildren.
 
 I am not able to accept two things - her past and now, this new condition she has put forward. Please guide me how to go about this relationship. Neither am I able to move on nor am I able to accept her condition. - 
 
 
 
 It’s unpleasant to feel this lost, out of control or vulnerable in a relationship. Reaching out for help is definitely a good first step you have taken.
 
 All relationships experience some extent of jealousy based on fear of losing their partner to someone else. Very often this fear although irrational, is grounded in the possibility of it happening currently. On the other hand, we have ‘Retroactive Jealousy’ which is a condition in which people find themselves feeling jealous, angry and upset about people their partner once dated or had   with in the past. This threat is usually non-existent, but the jealousy makes you unable to stop thinking about it, which may be happening to you.
 
 This feeling can persist and cause anger, fear, anxiety and paranoia, leading to mental and emotional exhaustion which you seem to be experiencing. Intellectually you may know everything is in the past but emotionally you are unable to shake the feeling off. And this may turn a healthy relationship into a recipe for failure.
 
 Discomfort with the partner’s past is usually because there is a need to feel like the ‘only one’ or the ‘special one’ in the partner’s life. On discovering the past, one tends to benchmark one’s relationship against the past relationships of the partner, threatening this special position. Jealousy can often come from feelings of inadequacy rooted probably in a childhood experience of not feeling special enough. Thus, we seek to be the only special one ever in our partner’s life. 
 
 In fact, the past is not the problem, the interpretation of it makes it hard to cope with, and this interpretation is usually born out of a place of fear. In my practice I often find that one’s own insecurities and lack of self-acceptance is usually sitting at the heart of this jealousy. I would suggest you to reflect on whether your own self worth in causing the fear of losing your partner.
 
 On the other hand, this feeling may lead to strong judgmental behaviours on your part. How you react when you discover your partners past experience is a very important marker. Usually jealousy leads to a skewed, misguided, distorted and exaggerated perception of the partner’s sexual history. 
 
 Often this jealousy condemns the partner so harshly, making them feel they have done something terrible. This leads to feelings of shame and guilt so often, that they may find the entire act of sexual intimacy dirty. This could be the reason for your partner to want to completely abstain from any physical relationship. Check if your judgment is fostering these feelings of guilt and shame in her.
 
 If the answer to the above is yes, work on your self-worth and judgment and try to refrain from over-thinking about the past. It is possible that the problem isn’t with your partners past, but with your way of processing it. So take ownership of the current situation - think clearly, and make good decisions together. Be sure that you are willing to let go of her past and not use it as a trump card in all future disputes. Sit down with your partner and discuss patiently and respectfully what has caused her decision to abstain from any future physical relationships. Help each other out if you find a workable ground.
 
 As Shakespeare had said – there is nothing either good or bad, but thinking makes it so.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
