Hyderabad: A district   here has directed a public sector non-life insurance company to pay a sum of about Rs 14 lakh towards insurance claim and Rs 50, 000 towards compensation to a customer for repudiating the claim without a valid reason.

 Larus Labs Pvt Ltd purchased a   and allotted it to V Ravi Kumar, Executive Director of the company, for his personal use. On September 18, 2013, at about 8 pm, when the said car was moving from Banjara Hills towards Gachibowli, due to the heavy rain, it was struck in a traffic jam on a road at a low lying area. All of a sudden there was a heavy gush of water from KBR park side and the water level started increasing and in no time overflowed the vehicles. The engine which was running till then suddenly went off and Kumar had no option except to call the authorized repairer and tow the vehicle to the workshop.
 
 As the car was insured under a comprehensive Insurance policy with the Oriental Insurance Company, Kumar immediately informed the insurance firm about the claim and a surveyor was appointed to inspect and examine the vehicle. He further added that the surveyor came to a conclusion that the loss was due to the drawing of water content into the engine assembly and that it is in the ambit of insurance coverage under the policy.
 
 However, subsequently, the insurance company agreed to settle the part amount of Rs.1,27,688, but rejected the remaining amount of Rs.15,34,778. Kumar and his company refused the offer ad approached the forum for full remedy.
 
 In the written version, the opposite party said that hydrostatic lock falls under consequential loss which is exclusion under the policy terms and conditions and claimed that they have allowed only part of the claim.
 
 “The damage to the engine like bending of connecting roads while attempting to start the engine either by pushing the vehicle or by using some other external means will result in hydrostatic lock and is not covered under the policy,” said the insurance company.
 
 During the trial, the bench said that when the surveyor who is an independent person appointed by the insurance company came to a conclusion that damaged caused was covered under the subject policy, the company should have obliged to his recommendations and termed rejecting the part of the claim as arbitrary in nature.
 
 In the end, apart from insurance amount and compensation, the insurance company was directed to pay Rs 3000 towards the cost. 
 
 
