 truly breaks the mould of the Best Actor winner. Be it through his performance, how he became an unconventional choice for this year’s State Awards or his refreshingly honest answers at his first public appearance post the win, Vinayakan is a rare breed of actor in Mollywood.
The award or the immense support from fans doesn’t seem to have affected him as he opens up about why he has been media shy, future plans and if he would be choosy from now:
 
 
 
 This award just asserts the fact that if you work hard, it will pay off. Many of you might have seen my home recently on TV. But when I step out of it, I can see people who don’t have even that. So, I have always channelled my energy into work.
  was a movie I could relate to. I have been witness to a lot of problems, mishaps, and wrongdoings in that area. The entire city’s trash is piled up in my locality, and it is from the same place that the sewage is let out. So, it did not take much time for me to identify with a Ganga or a Balan chettan, as I have seen a lot of such people in person. However, while I was toiling hard and was entrapped in a mesh of adversities, I would like to think that the film’s director Rajeev Ravi and producer were working hard just for me, to take me to greater heights.
 
 
 
 I have no clue why a lot of people were rooting for me on social media since the release of the film. I support such movements but only if they can change things for the better. I have never thought about getting an award, and I am not complacent and dwell too much on it. Even when it was announced, I never gave it much thought. 
 The feeling has started to sink in gradually and it’s time I focus on new goals. I have never focused on getting awards or acclaims.
 
 
 
 Not really. How many films have I got till now for me to be picky? For me, to be selective, there should be films that would match the standards of the films from the 80s and 90s. But that’s changing. Usually, the characters that appear on-screen are not representative of any class, it doesn’t give any idea of the background they come from. Kammattipaadam has managed to bring out that aspect. I am part of the changing wave in cinema that has been happening of late and I am sure more changes will happen.
 
 
 
 Of course, there will be disparity in every field, and that’s the natural way of the world. I first thought about my caste three years ago and I was embroiled in an emotional turmoil. Now, I have stopped thinking about it, as I felt that the moment I give importance to it, I will be pulled down farther. Not thinking about it has actually empowered me, and helped me do the things I love.
 
 
 
 I always try to assess myself and my work. Being a fan of classic films of 70s and 80s, I always thought that in order to present myself as an actor in front of an audience, I should be worthy enough, and that’s precisely why I haven’t talked to media so far.
 
 After I got the award, when I was asked to share my joy with my loved ones by giving sweets, I didn’t relent. And there were a few discussions about the same. I felt that it is a bit artificial. I have been getting many opinions from people around, but I can’t change myself. I am the same Vinayakan, right?
 
 
 
 When Rajeev Ravi offered me Kammattipaadam, I told him that I was keen to compose its songs. He then gave me the needed reference, and I started working on it. Though it was my first composition, it managed to capture the true essence of Ganga’s character in the film.
 I will next turn composer for a song in Rafiikka’s film Role Models and for Ordinary film director Sugeeth’s project. In addition to these, I will start working on four other songs. Nothing has given me more joy than being able to actively get involved in music and dance simultaneously. I also have plans to do some choreography and dance shows. 
 
