MUMBAI: After consecutive draws at home against big names   and Mohun Bagan   seem to have finally put their six-match losing streak behind them. But as they take on   in their   clash at the Cooperage Stadium on Sunday, it's the off-field issues that take the limelight. Three Mumbai players -Steven Dias, Allan Dias and Pratik Chowdhary --have reportedly been given a forced break by coach Santosh Kashyap. The players have been told verbally that their services are no longer required and that a final decision will be taken on Monday.

 Yet, when TOI asked Kashyap about the trio in the pre-match conference on Saturday , he said that all players are available for selection and that there's no truth to the reports that they have been sacked. The players however weren't present at the ground for the training session and one can only wonder how they would be 'available for selection' if they aren't part of the pre-match training.
 
 Sources have told TOI though that it was Kashyap's idea to sack the trio and he told the players that it was the decision of deputy vice-president Atul Badgamia. The latter has been avoiding calls from the players and hence there is no clarity on the situation.
 
 Steven was named captain of the team at the start of the season, and Allan has barely played a match in the league as he is out injured. "The fact that they are threatening to sack an injured player hasn't gone down well with the other players," a source in the know of things said. "But they are scared to say anything or they might face the same fate."
 
 The source further revealed that the team has lined up three players -Baljit Sahni, Joaquim Abranches and Mohammed Rafi -as replacements, though they still have to sign on the dotted line.Sahni was present at the ground , but did not train with the team.
 
 Yellow Brigade furious
 
 The 'Yellow Brigade', Mumbai FC's official fan base has called for coach Santosh Kashyap to be sacked. They were relentless on Twitter, tweeting against the coach. They also plan to put up banners reading 'Santosh out' during the match on Sunday. One banner which was shown to TOI on Saturday , depicted Kashyap as a venom spewing snake.
 
