Tirupur: A part of the ceiling plaster in a classroom in a government middle school in Neelambur on the outskirts of the city gave way on Tuesday. Since the incident happened during non-working hours, no one was hurt. It was not completely unexpected incident because the school administration had recently raised concerns over the stability of the building. But the authorities have failed to take action. 

 Sulur Panchayat Union Middle School in Neelambur has 255 students. It is functioning in a single-story building, which was constructed in 2008-09. The classrooms in the first floor, which host classes VI, VII, and VIII, are in dilapidated conditions, said the school sources. 
 
 When the school was about to start on Tuesday, class VI students were shocked to witness that a big part of their classroom ceiling crashed on benches. It was said that the incident could have happened during early morning hours.
 
 “The fallen concrete parts were found to be weighing enough to hurt people severely. If it would have happened when the students were available, many might have incurred severe head injuries. Anything could have happened,” said K Ramamoorthy, a social worker. As per information obtained under the RTI Act, the repairing works on the ceiling were conducted in 2013-14, four years after the building was constructed. But the ceilings have again become weak in the first floor classrooms.
 
 “We are wondering how quickly the building became weak after being constructed with the approval of the public works department. Moreover, the building’s staircase was measuring only about 3 feet, which is not sufficient to handle if any emergency situation emerges,” said Ramamoorthy.
 
 “Neither the school education department nor the revenue department took steps to repair the building when the school administration submitted petitions. Only now, the authorities including the district chief education officer have visited the school. When I questioned them about the incident, both the departments have blamed each other for it,” he mentioned. 
 
 The authorities have assured that the repairing works will be done quickly. But it is important that the building stability should be tested and also the authorities who were responsible for the incident should be brought into books, he said.
 
 
