Panaji: If Manohar   has his way, the state capital could see a drastic reduction in traffic congestion and   may also bear a new look. Outlining his plans for Panaji on Monday, the chief minister said that the government was working on a plan to shift all the government offices out of the capital to the EDC Patto complex.

 While the north   collectorate could move to Porvorim or Merces, all the other government offices currently houses at Junta House, Fazenda, Massano de Amorim and other scattered places would be housed in a new eight story administrative complex near the central library.
 
 “All government offices will be taken out of Panaji, including Junta house, education department, health department, food grain warehouse. In next two years, Panaji will be decongested of unwarranted load of government offices. There is no need to have headquarters or an office in Panaji. All these things will take two to two and a half years to complete,” Parrikar said.
 
 He was speaking after studying a proposal floated by the corporation of the city of Panaji for a new municipal building.
 
 Parrikar took pains to point out that these proposals were still in the early stages of deliberations and would take some time to fructify.
 
 “That is the tentative idea at least, not finalized. The collectorate building we are thinking of moving to Porvorim. This plan has not been frozen but basic documentation, requirements, collection of resources has started. The work is already on and based on this, by October the tender for this will come,” Parrikar said.
 
 AS per the government’s plan, the state Museum, which is temporarily housed at the Adil Shah Palace will be shifted to the ESG complex while the ESG administrative complex will be relocated at a convention centre at Dona Paula where the IFFI complex is coming.
 
 The Goa State Museum had developed various cracks and was showing structural damage and the government has decided to raze the building and task Goa State Infrastructure Development Corporation to build a new eight-story administrative complex.
 
 “We are also taking a plot from EDC next to that site and using these two plots, we are going to relocate all the government buildings in Panaji, other than operational offices like Police or health centers. In two years, maybe October, the construction will be complete,” Parrikar said.
 
 EDC has been asked to construct a convention center at Dona Paula under Public Private Partnership on the land that was earlier earmarked for an IT park. Once government offices are shifted out of Panaji, there is the possibility of government staff quarters and multi-level car parking facilities in the capital.
 
 
