His comic timing always seem perfect. But it seems wherever   goes, controversies follow. After the entire Kapil Sharma incident, Sunil Grover has become much adored stand-up comedian and is now even more in demand for his performances. While he is all set to perform in Ahmedabad on May 27, some legal controversy has now come up for this talented guy .A city-based event organizer   has filed a complaint of cheating and criminal conspiracy against actor and stand-up comedian Sunil Grover and event organizer Devang Shah, over a show.
 
  Rajpal Shah has alleged that Devang Shah and Sunil Grover's manager promised to organize an event with Sunil Grover, but breached the contract and is now holding a similar event in Ahmedabad at a different location, reportedly for a higher price. When AT connected with Devang Shah, he said, “We keep on getting 4-5 enquiries for one specific date regarding Sunil's performances in India as well as abroad. In this case, we were not keen on doing the event on May 27 due to another concert happening on the same day . Rajpal Shah also enquired for the possibility of May 20, which couldn't be worked out due to Sunil's tight schedule. I returned him the advance amount of `10 lakh. So there's no case of cheating and I have all the bank-statements which I can present for the same.“ We tried connecting with Rajpal Shah but his mobile was switched off. We also tried getting in touch with Sunil Grover and his manager, but they were unavailable to comment till the time we went to press.
  
  
 
  
  LEGAL ANGLE TO THE CASE
  
  Rajpal filed a complaint under section 417 and 120 (B) of IPC. On receiving the application, the court has ordered Navarangpura police station to conduct a probe under section 202 of Criminal Procedure Code. City-based lawyer Ashish Desai explains, “The complaint is under cheating of criminal breach of trustcontract. The complainant is at the loss of good-will and must have suffered some financial losses of cancellation charges from venue, security, hospitality team as well as must have gotten into some problems from the sponsors as well. Although, all of this needs to be proved in the court that's when it will be taken in consideration.“
  
  
 
  
  
 
