MUMBAI: In its attempt to announce the   by July 31—a deadline set by Governor   –   has decided to extend the   for arts, commerce and law faculties till July 31. This will mean most lectures for second and third-year courses under these three faculties will be suspended for four more days. 

 The university has also requested teachers from other faculties to assess papers after their academic duties, as they have fewer  . Besides, the authorities have decided to take stringent action against teachers who fail to spend an average of 40 hours on assessment in these eight days of ‘assessment break’.
 
 In a circular issued on Thursday, the university said 95% of assessment in science and technology courses, and 90% in management are complete. While arts still has about 20% answerscripts pending, a majority of the pending work is from the commerce and law faculties. “The examiners from science, technology and management are requested to extend their co-operation in online assessment after their academic duties till the declaration of results in their faculties,” said Vinayak Dalvie, officer on special duty of assessment. “Action will be initiated against teachers by following the natural course of justice if they are not reporting for the minimum six hours per day,” he added.
 
 The university is also considering the demand of students’ organisations for waiving off the re-evaluation fees, as, they said, questions will be raised on the quality of assessment too. The Maharashtra Navnirman Vidyarthi Sena, on Thursday, made a few demands, including waiving off the fees and setting up a help-desk for students who are seeking admissions in other universities in the country and abroad. The students’ activists have threatened to stage a protest on August 1 if the university fails to declare the results by July 31.
 
 Though teachers from other universities are being roped in for the assessment work, a majority of the teachers are from Mumbai University alone, said M A Khan, registrar of the university. “Around 25 commerce teachers from Nagpur are helping in the assessment. On Thursday, software installation was done even at Pune and Aurangabad. Around 50 law teachers from Aurangabad and 50 commerce and management teachers from Pune will be assisting us from Friday,” added Khan.
 
