SAIFAI (ETAWAH): Trying to close the chapter on a prolonged family feud for control over the Samajwadi Party, Uttar Pradesh’s ruling Yadav clan presented a picture of unity on Sunday. 

 Speaking to reporters after the vote in their native village Saifai, the Yadavs came out with perfectly in-sync sound bytes to dispel any notion of fight within the family. 
 
 While SP patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav’s second wife   said Akhilesh and her son Prateek were equally dear to her, Prateek said nobody could have possibly taken UP on the path of development “like his bhaiya, Akhilesh”. Dimple and Sarla, wives of two men at loggerheads until recently, CM   and his uncle Shivpal Yadav, went to the polling booth together, dissing reports of friction between their husbands. Asked about allegations of “step-motherly” treatment of Akhilesh, Sadhna said, “Akhilesh and Prateek are like my two eyes. They are equally dear. It pains me when Akhilesh is called my stepson.”
 
 Sadhna added, “People who make such claims are worse than demons.” She had kept away from the media glare during the recent family feud even after an Akhilesh loyalist MLC alleged that she was brain behind the political crisis for control over SP. Her son Prateek, whose wife Aparna is an SP candidate from  , was equally effusive about Akhilesh. 
 
 “Today was the first time that I took the Agra Expressway to reach Saifai and it was nothing less than a hallmark of development,” Prateek said, lauding cheerfully, “Kaam bolta hai (work speaks for itself).” Mulayam, Akhilesh and his wife Dimple, too, held public meetings for Aparna. 
 
 Shivpal’s wife Sarla, who too prefers to stay away from media, denied any bickering between her husband and Akhilesh. “There are no differences between them now. Whatever was there is now a thing of past,” she told TOI.
 
 Dimple, too, said emphatically, “You people say there is discord between the two and we have come together to vote.” The Yadav family was at   polling station in Saifai to vote for Mulayam’s younger brother Shivpal, candidate from   that went to polls in the third phase on Sunday. They told reporters they were all jointly rooting for Akhilesh as the CM once again and expressed confidence that people would return SP to power. 
 
 A beaming Mulayam said there was no stopping SP now. “We will win over 300 seats and form the the government,” he said. Although Sarla had accompanied Mulayam in the morning, she once again went to the polling station along with Dimple. The Yadav was engaged in a bitter battle for power which eventually ended with Mulayam being replaced by Akhilesh as the party president with the help of his uncle and party general secretary Ram Gopal Yadav.
 
