LUCKNOW: Hectic parleys were on to save the Samajwadi Party from an impending disintegration as the judgment day arrived at the Election Commission of India to decide who gets the bicycle symbol -- Mulayam Singh Yadav or his son  , or the symbbol gets frozen.

 Even till late on Thursday night, well-wishers from both warring sides made desperate last attempts to save India’s largest political family from a near disintegration. The fear of the outcome of the   verdict has been giving sleepless nights not only to cadres of the party but rivals as well as SP’s fate is now linked to the performance of the major political parties in the 2017 assembly elections. Will any last-minute rapproachment take place? Or, in case of a split, how will the two new rival outfits go to polls, was the common refrain. 
 
 Armed with a set of legal and personal opinion, visitors streamed at Mulayam Singh Yadav’s 16, Ashoka Road, Delhi residence and Akhilesh’s 5 Kalidas Marg, Lucknow official abode. According to sources, while the Mulayam camp has engaged Mohan Parasaran, who has been solicitor general of Indian in the UPA regime and is now a senior advocate with the Supreme Court for Friday’s hearing, it has also sought opinion of  , Congress   member and veteran advocate. The Akhilesh Yadav camp, meanwhile, has engaged a battery of lawyers and sought opinion of famous lawyer Harish Salve.
 
 All over the state, the general cadres and the rank and file of the party expressed anguish over the developments heading towards an unprecedented end of a four-month-long family feud threatening to engulf the party! “Maine aur Shivpal ne bahut laathi dande khaaye, jail gaye sangharsh kiya tab yeh party bani,” (I and Shivpal have languished in the prison, suffered canes and struggled hard to form this party...I will not leave it like this),” said Mulayam, vowing not to let it disintegrate, while at the same time not relenting and passing its reins to his son. 
 
 On Thursday, Rajya Sabha member  , visited Mulayam several times while his younger brother and former minister Shivpal Yadav, now the most dependable man in the family and party for him, stayed by his side throughout.
 
 Meanwhile, there were reports that as an alternative plan, just in case he loses the bicycle symbol, Mulayam met Lok Dal leader Sunil Singh for discussions on contesting the assembly elections on the symbol of his party.
 
 In Lucknow, chief minister Akhilesh Yadav had been constantly in touch with the party’s expelled Rajya Sabha member Ram Gopal Yadav, who is drawing the strategy to claim the party and its iconic symbol. If the “ousted” chief of the Samajwadi Party Mulayam Singh Yadav is concerned over saving the party from a split, Akhilesh is fully prepared for no compromise and waiting in wings to embark on the election campaign with the cycle or without.
 
 If both stick to their stand and don’t compromise , Samajwadi Party could be history from and the father-son feud will be a new low in the battle for power in the state’s political history.
 
 
