NEW DELHI: Finding Kailash Satyarthi’s   Prize was the first major challenge before new police chief   after he took office. Of the five times the Nobel has been stolen across the world, this was the second time in India. The first was Rabindranath Tagore’s prize that was stolen in 2004, which has not been recovered till date.

 Amidst a global spotlight and the ministry of home affairs seeking reports, Patnaik himself monitored the probe. 
 
 Seven special teams led by joint commissioner R P Upadhyay and DCP Romil Baaniya were constituted on February 7 to track the suspects. The crime branch was also asked to chip in.
 
 The police went back to the age-old way of source networking on the ground and manual intelligence to probe this high-profile case leaving behind electronic surveillance. A chance tip-off to one of the cops led to the case being cracked.
 
 “After studying the modus operandi of the thieves, data from nearby police stations was scanned and criminals were shortlisted and picked up for interrogation. The fingerprints lifted from the spot were matched with those stored in the bureau,” Upadhyay said.
 
 The movements and activities of around 100 suspects around the time of the crime were examined. Of this, around a dozen were finally considered strong suspects based on clues from CCTV footages. 
 
 In the final list, Rajan alias Nata, who had committed burglaries in the area earlier, emerged as the strongest suspect.
 
 Rajan was found missing, but one of the team members received a tip-off that the criminal had changed three houses in Sangam Vihar in the past one week. 
 
 This strengthened the suspicion of the police and they collected detailed information about him by February 10.
 
 Raids were conducted by Kalkaji SHO Ved Parkash at Govindpuri, Kalkaji and Sangam Vihar. Finally, Rajan was picked up from near a sweet shop at Sangam Vihar. Some of the stolen articles were recovered from his residence. 
 
 He told the police that he had committed the theft with his brothers.
 
 After the crime, his brothers had gone back to their homes. They had stored the valuables at their homes and kept watching news reports on TV waiting for the matter to cool down. Rajan’s brothers were arrested from their houses. 
 
 While other articles of theft have been recovered, the police will take the robbers to the place where they claimed to have abandoned the  .
 
 
