NAVI MUMBAI: As many as 21 families staying in  , sector 20B,  , are crying foul after they received eviction notices from   and  . The residents claim that they are being harassed by NMMC and the police despite possessing a Commencement Certificate (CC) and an Occupancy Certificate (OC) from NMMC. Both the agencies are blaming each other for the ‘goof-up’.

 The residents are challenging the NMMC move to vacate them forcibly in order to raze the building when they have the CC and OC issued by the administration. “I shifted to this building last August after verifying all relevant property papers including CC and OC by NMMC. We put in our hard-earned money and got loans from reputed banks. Even the society was formed on the basis of requisite documents,” said an angry resident, Priyanko Sinha.
 
 The residents are also questioning how the civic body can serve them eviction notices at a time when the case is pending in high court. A resident, Deepak Patel, said that the case exposes various loopholes in Cidco and NMMC. “Some frauds in both agencies and agents have put us at risk. We have filed a petition in court and are waiting for the verdict. But we are being harassed by the officials,” he added.
 
 NMMC officials have claimed that eviction notices were served after they found the papers submitted by builder to be forged. Deputy commissioner, and head of civic encroachment wing, Kailash Gaikwad said that the building was developed on a Cidco plot. “The developer has forged allotment letter from Cidco, based on which NMMC issued the CC and OC. When we found that the documents were forged we cancelled them.”
 
 He added, even Cidco has also lodged an FIR against the builder, developer and officials in their town planning department and declared the building illegal. “We have issued eviction notices on that basis,” he added.
 
 Manoharan Menon, officer on special duty in Controller of Unauthorised Construction (CUC), Cidco also clarified that the original property file was not created. “Duplicate agreement was made. NMMC should have verified the papers with us and sent a copy of CC and OC to Cidco. It’s a clear case of fraud where agents played a key role in producing fake papers to pay transfer charges of the plot.”
 
 But developer Dinesh Patel said that they have lease agreement of the plot for which Cidco was paid Rs 2.50 lakh transfer charges. “I have Cidco receipt for the amount paid. Cidco can’t touch our building, as we have a civil court stay against any action. The next hearing is fixed on March 6,” he added.
 
  had started the construction on a 355 sq m area reserved for PAPs after obtaining CC from NMMC. 
 
 
