PUNE: The BJP MLA’s daughter,  , on Sunday raised   Rajesh Bakshi — the assailant — for stalking and harassing her.

 A student of an MBA college of Sri Balaji Society, Ashwini on Sunday afternoon had complained about Bakshi to the society president, A Balasubramanian. She even had called her father, BJP MLA Sanjivreddi Bodkurwar, on the same night and narrated him the entire episode.
 
 Balasubramanian told TOI Ashwini had come to him with her friend on Sunday around 2.30pm and gave a written complaint against Bakshi. “Ashwini had told me that he was misbehaving with her for the past few months and it had become unbearable for her. She also had requested to take serious action against Bakshi,” he said.
 
 The society president said Ashwini claimed that she treated Bakshi like her other classmates. “He, however, was possessive about her. He would object if Ashwini spoke with any of her male classmates. He had even entered into brawl with a few of them,” Balasubramanian said.
 
 He said Ashwini had stopped talking to him because of this. “But Bakshi constantly called her. She even showed me his several missed calls on her cellphone,” he said.
 
 Balasubramanian claimed that he immediately summoned Bakshi. “I did not tell him that Ashwini had complained about him. I said his few classmates had told me that he was harassing Ashwini,” he said.
 
 Balasubramanian said the directors of the society’s two institutions and the president of the students’ council were present with him. “We talked to Bakshi for about three hours and took a written undertaking from him. He had promised that he would not contact her in the future either on the college premises or outside. He stated that the college authorities could take action against him if he tried to contact Ashwini again,” he said.
 
 Barely 12 hours after giving the written undertaking to the college authorities on Sunday evening, Bakshi severely assaulted Ashwini on Monday morning.
 
 Ashwini’s father, MLA Sanjivreddi Bodkurwar, told TOI that Ashwini had called him on Sunday and said her classmate Bakshi was misbehaving with her and she had complained about him to the college authorities. “I had decided to contact the college authorities on Monday. Before that, this attack happened,” Bodkurwar said.
 
 He said Pune is a hub of education and girls and boys from all over the world came here for studies. “The students should focus on studies. I shall talk to the chief minister about the law and order situation in the city,” Bodkurwar said.
 
