PUNE: It has been over two years, but the memories of the   at Malin still haunts 65-year-old  , who lost his brother in the tragedy on the morning of July 30, 2014.

 On Sunday, almost 32 months after the tragedy, Zanjare and other survivors were handed over keys of their newly constructed house at Amade village, around 3km from the landslide spot, by chief minister  .
 
 “It is a special day for us as we have got our homes, but there is no forgetting the bitter memories of that morning (the day the landslide occurred). We now just hope that we don’t face a similar tragedy at our new place,” Zanjare said.
 
 Not just the landslide-affected, the house handover function witnessed a huge attendance of the residents of nearby villages too. They came to express their support to the tragedy-hit villagers. 
 
 Harishchandra Lembe, one such neighbor who travelled from nearby Chinchechiwadi village, said he had lost his cousin’s family in the tragedy. “My cousin survived as he had gone out,” he said.
 
 The rehabilitation of Malin villagers at Amade village has been done over eight acres of land. The newly built houses have been provided with water and power connections. They are not just earthquake resistant, but are strong enough to stand heavy rains and wind. Besides 68 houses, a cattle shed, school, water tank, common toilet, gram panchayat office have also been constructed under the rehabilitation initiative. 
 
 While addressing villagers, Fadnavis said Malin rehabilitation was a model project for the state administration where villagers were taken into confidence at every step. 
 
 “It is not easy for survivors to get over the memories of their dear ones who died in the tragedy. The government and the administration have put all efforts to ensure better rehabilitation. It is an example where society, administration and political leadership have come together to work out the best possible rehabilitation project,” the chief minister said.
 
 Meanwhile, local MLA Dilip Walse Patil urged the CM to increase financial allocation for the Padkai scheme that has proved beneficial for people from hilly regions.
 
 Memorial at location
 
 The government has built a memorial (Smriti-Van) at the landslide spot in Malin. As many as 151 trees have been planted in memory of the deceased. The memorial was inaugurated by the chief minister on Sunday. A small garden has also been developed in the front of memorial.
 
 Road access hurdle
 
 A single-lane road is the only access point to Malin and Amade, both located in the hilly areas of Dimbhe dam. Locals and regular travellers said commute on the road has increased after the Malin tragedy, portion of which needs urgent repairs.
 
 District admin gets a pat
 
 Not just political leaders, but villagers too praised the district administration for its efforts towards the rehabilitation project. District collector Saurbah Rao said he and his team wanted an ideal rehabilitation plan for the Malin survivors.
 
 A challenge for NDRF 
 
 Malin landslide was perhaps the biggest and the toughest operation for the   (NDRF). The magnitude of the disaster was huge. It was a milestone for the NDRF on many fronts, including the challenging terrain and heavy downpour.  , who played a vital role in the rescue works, were also present at the function.
 
