THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The   may not act as a magic pill to save the   sector from all its ills.But it is expected to act as a slow purifier for the self-financing medical education sector where irregularities are a norm.
“Admissions on the basis of NEET rank list may help bring down the magnitude of corruption. Students would get admission only on merit making the process more transparent and fair. But this doesn't mean that all the self-financing colleges would suddenly fall in line with the government policies and act with a sense of justice. Irregularities may find new forms. But the common entrance would certainly improve the quality ,“ said Justice R Rajendra Babu, chairman of the admission supervisory fee regulatory committee for professional colleges.
 
 Many others who were involved in the seat allotment process share the same feeling. “While it would certainly help maintain a certain level of quality, I am not sure whether the quality criteria would be strictly followed when it comes to allotment process. Unless there is active vigil against malpractices, the undesirable practices cannot be eliminated fully . Now, with the   order, all medical colleges, including those which enjoy minority status will have to admit students only from the common entrance text. The practice of admitting students to NRI quota with utter disregard to merit norms would come to an end,'' said  , former chairman of admission and fee regula tory committee. Despite repeated interventions by the government and fee regulatory committee, several self-financing medical colleges refused to uphold transparency and merit in admission of students during the previous academic year. Following the detection of serious irregularities, the committee had cancelled the admissions in two medical colleges and the decision was upheld by the Supreme Court as well. There were allegations that the online services of certain colleges with regard to the admission procedure were open only to select students chosen by managements.
 
 However, Kerala Private Medical College Managements' Association is not happy with the state government decision to make allotments to all seats in self-financing medical colleges. “We have no problem in declaring NEET as the one and only eligibility test for admission to MBBS and allied courses. But, the decision to fill all seats by the government cannot be accepted. The government has no right to take away the administrative right of the managements. We would challenge it in court,'' said  , association secretary.
 
 State commissioner of entrance examination too expressed hope that the adoption of NEET as the single eligibility test for admission to MBBS and allied courses would help to ensure that only meritorious students get admission. “The allotment process is likely to be smoother during the upcoming admission season. The government has already signed agreement with several of the private medical colleges,“ said M T Reju, commissioner for entrance examinations.
 
