PUNE:   on Thursday highlighted the need to protect forests as 80% of the potable water is purified by them. 
 
 “Only 3% of the world’s water is fresh, while the rest is salty. Of this, only 0.4% is potable. Forests, which purify 80% of the potable water, have been chopped to half their original size. Like our bodies, 75% of the planet is water. When we destroy one part of nature, the entire cycle is disturbed. We need to wake up to this reality and secure our planet,” Pandey said.
 
 He was in the city to give away awards to the winners of film competition at the 11th Kirloskar Vasundhara International Film Festival, which is bring held under the theme ‘Save River, Save Life’. “Education plays a key role in stopping the relentless progress (urbanization) and films are a good way to retell humans their own story,” Pandey said while addressing a news conference.
 
 While recalling the prelude to his film ‘Shores of Silence’, the filmmaker said, “Before we began the film, we found that as many 1,200 whale sharks were killed along Indian shores every year, and their meat sold locally at Re 1 per kg. This meat would later be sold by fishing mafia in South East Asia at $600/kg, labelled as shark fin meat, a delicacy there.” 
 
 However, there was no one to take up this issue up then. “Most bodies and international networks we went to, refused to acknowledge the existence of whale sharks and their hunt in the region. So, we made a film showing these creatures consume plankton and, in turn, neutralise the level of carbon,” Pandey said.
 
 He said a good film is the one that not only shows a problem, but also presents solutions to it. Three months after ‘Shores of Silence’ was first screened, there was an amendment in the country’s Wildlife Act, with the addition of ‘protection of sea creature’ laws.
 
 Pandey has produced more than 600 films and won about 300 awards over the past three decades, including three Wildscreen Panda Awards, also known as ‘Green Oscars’.
 
 KVIFF film competition winners
 
 Pandey as well as Indian Documentary Producers’ Association (IDPA) vice-president Usha Deshpande felicitated six winners of the KVIFF film competition at the   (NFAI).   from Mumbai received the first prize for ‘All Is Well’, a documentary on indoor area pollution, followed by Steve Fisher and Jason Jaacks from the US for ‘Silent River’. Joint third was awarded to Amit Goswamy and Asif Khan, while consolation prizes went to Pune-based directors Amol Kachre and Sanyog Mothite.
 
 
