Bhopal: “Akansha means life to me, and now that she's not just a soulmate but a lifemate. If anyone pricks her a pin, I would put a sword through their heart. I agree and accept openly that I was a cowboy typos guy before, but when I met Akansha around 2007 she did changed me considerably.”

 The comment was posted by Udyan Das on December 18, 2016 below a picture of him and Akansha on her Facebook post, some six months after he cold bloodedly murdered her.
 
 Das, who is changing his statements from the time he was arrested by police on Thursday, has weaved a virtual world of his own in which he claims to be man of many trades. His Facebook accounts mentioned his name as   Von Richthofen Mehra and his profile picture shows him in a Lamborghini. His January 22, 2017 post states he started working as a foreign service officer at United States department.
 
 He used the name Udayan Von Richthofen Mehra on social media and claimed himself as CEO of Mehra Corps and UdayanGlobal. Websites of the companies claim to deal in sectors such as aerospace, petro-chemical, iron-ore extraction (mining), automobile dealerships, fabrication of diamonds, golf and racing resorts, military and commercial aviation. He claimed that he has a younger sister and she was gifted dealership of Mercedes Benz in San Diego in 1998.
 
 On the site of UdayanGlobal, the accused claimed himself as a former Indian Air Force SOC (Special operations command). Company is into oil exploration in Middle East and Caspian Sea. It also mentions that company will open a chain of Hard Rock Cafe at 15 locations around Canada and also Hard Rock chain of hotels at locations such as Las Vegas, Singapore, Miami, Switzerland and Mauritius.
 
 It also states the company has dealership of high-end cars such as Lamborghini and Audi and is the sole importer of high-end Bugati car in India and China. Das also mentioned that it is the distributor of Siemens healthcare products in India and has a chain of highway rescue units across comprising choppers and air ambulances across the country. UdayanGlobal mentions itself to be a fortune 500 company and listed it in BSE and NASDAQ.
 
 Das’s other website Mehra Corps shows his father Birendra Kumar Das as its founder and that the company deals in oil exploration in Saudi Arabia. It also claims of owning two BPCL petrol pumps in Bhopal and Raipur under the name of Olive fuels.
 
 He mentioned on the website his father started the business of import-export of precious stones like diamond because of his mother’s interest in diamonds. He claimed his mother to be an Indian Army surgeon, who had a deep knowledge of metallurgy and names her mother as Dr. Mrs. Indrani Gawrys Mehra. With the effort of her father and mother they have developed gold bar units in Bhopal, Indore, Surat in India as well as in San Diego, Las Vegas and Moscow, the company post states.
 
 Das writes highly about his mother on the website of Mehra Corps stating she was not only a good doctor, but also an enterprising woman, who started the business of shipping and mining for the company. He mentions that on the day of his high school graduation his mother started a project to fund two deprived children to complete their graduation and now they are funding four children.
 
 Mehra Corps website mentions that Udayan Von Richthofen Mehra started a project grunflasche, which bought large tracts of land for reforestation and has received accreditation of United Nations. It says the company has done restoration of forest reserves in Balaghat and 817 acres of land in Rajasthan and is planning reforestation projects in Amazon forest.
 
 Das claims himself to be an Indian Air Force pilot with the rating of MIG29. He also states he set up an integrated research and development centre in Bengaluru by the name of “Udayan Aerospace and Dynamic Inc” to promote youngsters to join Air Force. 
 
 Das has claimed in his website that Mehra Corps will be listed in BSE. They have also set up an oil refinery in Tamil Nadu. Site also mentions that are working in the field of prevention of aids and have signed a deal for the establishment of condom manufacturing plants in Madhya Pradesh and Noida.
 
 
