MUMBAI: After getting the environment and forests ministry’s final approval, the   Rs 15,000 crore   project has now cleared a crucial test. 

 The   of the stretch between   and Bandra Worli Sea Link (9.98km-long first phase), being carried out since October last year, has found the soil strata to be sound for construction of the road along the western seafront, officials said.
 
 Additional municipal commissioner (projects) Dr Sanjay Mukherjee said, “The soil testing, by sinking boreholes, is progressing well and we are expecting it to be completed in the next fortnight. Meanwhile, we have already zeroed in on quarries from where material for the construction would be brought in.” A senior civic official said barely two more boreholes are to be sunk at the Worli end for the soil test.
 
 “The investigation plays a crucial role in the construction of the road. About 166 bore holes would be drilled every 100 metres to check the soil strata and at every 50 metres where a tunnel is to come up. The holes are almost 50 metres deep,” a civic official had told TOI when the soil testing started from the south Mumbai end in October last year. 
 
 Subsequently, work on the first phase of the project, which will cost BMC Rs 5,303 crore, is expected to begin from October. The Request for Qualification (RFQ) for the project has been publicised and several prominent companies have shown interest. The Request for Proposal is expected to be released in June, said civic officials. A senior civic official said, “Ours was an indicative design which laid down how the road should be, the need for a sea wall and also the requirement for open spaces. The qualified companies, however, can come up with their own designs but without changing the alignment of the proposed road in any way.”
 
 Meanwhile the Mumbai Metro Rail Corporation Limited had written to the BMC suggesting to use the muck excavated during the digging work for Metro III (Colaba-Bandra-SEEPZ) line for reclamation for the coastal road. “However we wrote back to them stating that the material for reclamation needs to be of a specific kind and would need to be tested before we agree to use the same,” said an official.
 
 
