Mumbai: A special court on Tuesday framed charges against  , her estranged husband   and ex-husband   on charges of murdering Sheena Bora in 2012. Additionally, the trio have been charged with destruction of evidence, criminal conspiracy, kidnapping and giving false information about an offence. 

 After reading out and explaining the charges to the three who stood in the witness box, special judge   directed them to consult with their lawyers and tell the court if they pleaded guilty or not. Moments later, the accused signed documents in which they pleaded “not guilty” to all charges. 
 
 Indrani and Sanjeev were also charged for attempting to murder her son, Mikhail Bora. The charge was not framed against Peter.
 
  Peter later told the court he would want to speak up during the next hearing. The court said he would have his turn after evidence in the case is examined. The court also assured him that the trial would be fair and at any point, if he had doubts,it would clarify them. 
 
 “You can also cross-examine witnesses. Whatever rights you have, will be protected,” the judge said. 
 
 In a six-page order reasoning the ground on which it framed charges, the court said it had carefully gone through statements of all the witnesses recorded, emails, SMSes and call details. “I have also gone through statements of witnesses, particularly security person who was on duty during the relevant period at Marlow bungalow and that of Rahul Mukerjea (Peter’s son and Sheena's fiancé), Kajal Sharma (Indrani’s assistant) and approver (driver) Shyamvar Rai. If the statements of above-named witnesses read with that of statements of other witnesses available on record, there remains no doubt that the material is available showing that there are sufficient grounds for proceeding against all the accused for offences punishable under section 120 (b) (criminal conspiracy), 364 (kidnapping), 302 (murder), 201 (destruction of evidence), and 203 (giving false information in respect of an offence) of the Indian Penal Code.” 
 
 The court further stated that there were sufficient grounds for proceeding against Indrani and Sanjeev for offences punishable under section 307 (attempt to murder) read with 34 (common intention) or 120 (b) (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC. “Moreover, so far as Indrani, charge punishable under section 471of IPC (using as genuine a false document or electronic record) alternatively is required to be framed against her,” the judge said. 
 
 Referring to the remaining charges—IPC sections 202 (intentional omission to give information of offence by person bound to inform), 328 (causing grievous hurt using poison), 384 (extortion), 420 (cheating) and 468 (forgery for cheating)—the court said the material available on record did not constitute sufficient grounds for framing charges.
 
 The matter will now be heard on February 1. The prosecution will file a list of witnesses to be examined in the case. After the first witness is summoned, the trial will commence. Primary among the witnesses will be accused-turned-approver, driver Shyamvar Rai. His statement, given in Hindi, detailed the roles of all the accused.
 
