KOCHI: To maintain standards of medical colleges across the country, the   ( ) has decided to go for live streaming of both   and   in the medical colleges. For this, CCTVs will be installed in all medical colleges.

 Further, the council plans to install biometric fingerprint attendance machines in all colleges to capture faculty attendance. All the faculty members need to be registered with online faculty attendance monitoring systems (OFAMOS) that is linked to Aadhaar platform.
 
 To ensure compliance from the medical colleges, MCI has linked this to the minimum standard required for permission to admit students to MBBS courses.
 
 The MCI’s decision was conveyed by the MCI ethics committee in a meeting with all state MCIs on Monday. “As per the plan, in the first phase 100 medical colleges will be covered. In Kerala, work has already started at Alappuzha Government Medical College. By the next academic year, these facilities should be available in all the medical colleges,” said Dr K Mohanan, member of Medical Council of India.
 
 In the meeting, the state MCI members were informed that every doctor would have a special radio frequency id and there would be multiple points to mark attendance that would directly monitored by the MCI. While the biometric attendance would be provided by the MCI, the same would be maintained by the college.
 
 “CCTV and live streaming is being emphasized not to assess the quality of education but to ensure that regular classes are conducted in these colleges and they have enough OP patients visiting the medical college OPD as mandated by the MCI,” said Dr Mohanan. For 100 seats, the minimum OPD required per day is 800.
 
 So far, MCI followed the system of surprise inspections and based on the faculty present in the college prepare a report. “There was a feeling that MCI was not getting proper data on the teaching faculty. With fingerprint monitoring, they check records and confirm that the faculty present on the day of inspection is regular staff or not. To ensure that the data is maintained, it will be stored in Cloud,” said Mohanan.
 
 Kerala University of health sciences authorities have welcomed the move and said it was aimed at improving quality of medical education. “University will converge the facility as this will help improve quality of education in medical colleges,” said Kerala University of Health Sciences vice-chancellor Dr MKC Nair.
 
 However, private medical college managements said that CCTVs in patient care room could be an intrusion on people’s privacy. “But this will to a great extent put a stop to medical colleges bringing in ‘ghost faculty’ during MCI inspections,” said Dr Fazal Ghafoor, president of Kerala Private Medical College Management Association.
 
