Gurgaon:  , an associate company of the M3M group, has alleged they have been duped by three people who entered into an agreement to sell them land, which they had already sold to another party.

 Police registered an FIR on Saturday on the basis of a complaint filed by Gaurav Jain, director of the Manglam Multiplex, which said three people, Devender Raghav, Devender Kumar and Sunder Lal, misrepresented the title of the land to “obtain wrongful gain and cause loss” to the company.
 
 The company allegedly purchased the land for Rs 7.5 lakh from Devender Kumar, for which the sale deed was registered on June 30, 2016, in favour of the company. Kumar had purchased the same land for Rs 5 lakh from another accused, Sunder Lal, by a sale deed which was registered in the sub-registrar's office on June 4, 2014. 
 
 Jain told police, “The accused are old friends and working together in collaboration with and under guidance of another accused, Devender Raghav, a former employee of Manglam Multiplex.”
 
 According to police, Raghav worked as a patwari, a government official who keeps records on land ownership, and has four other cases registered against him since 2015, which are being contested in the Haryana and Punjab high court. Raghav has already obtained interim bail in all these cases, on the condition of settling the dispute. The company has alleged they had recently come to know the accused had “hatched a criminal conspiracy to deceive and cheat” them in connivance with each other.
 
 According to the company, Sunder Lal, prior to execution of the sale deed in favour of his friend Devender Kumar, had already agreed to sell the same land to a certain Krishan Kumar for Rs 20 lakh, of which Sunder Lal had already received Rs 17 lakh. The said agreement with Krishan Kumar was also registered in the sub-registrar’s office on May 27, 2014.
 
 The complainants further alleged the conspiracy is clear from the fact “the stamp paper for sale of land to accused Devender Kumar by Sunder Lal was purchased on May 27, 2014, the same day on which the agreement with Krishan Kumar was registered.”
 
 Investigating officer ASI Ravi Dutt of Badshapur police station, where the case was registered, said the FIR has been filed under sections 120B (criminal conspiracy), 420 (cheating) and 465 (forgery) of IPC. 
 
 “We are verifying the facts of the case. No arrests have been made so far,” he said.
 
 
