MARGAO: With the police still appearing to be groping in the dark in its probe into the spate of   incidents in South  , and the police patrolling abysmally failing to prevent recurrence of such crimes, the absence of electronic surveillance system in public places in the state has come to the fore. 

 Police sources aver that the need of   cameras in crime investigations and detection has been acutely felt by police in the investigation of desecration incidents. In the few cases where CCTV cameras were installed in the vicinity of the incident spots, sources said, they were found to be non-functional, largely owing to non-maintenance.
 
 Though CCTV cameras were installed with much fanfare in many parts of South Goa, they stopped functioning within months of their installation, and in some cases like in  , even before their launch. The CCTV monitoring room at the South Goa police headquarters that was abuzz with activity until a year ago, is now a pale shadow of its former self.
 
 Sources informed that almost all the 33 CCTV cameras installed at various places in Margao city have stopped functioning and are in need of repairs. Reason: The agency which was to provide after sales service for maintenance of the CCTVs stopped attending to complaints as no annual maintenance contract was signed with the agency. While the CCTV cameras were financed by the Members of Parliament Local Area Development (MPLAD) scheme, no provision was made for the maintenance of the system, sources informed.
 
 In Curchorem, the police had installed 63 CCTV cameras at 20 locations across Curchorem with much fanfare a little over a year ago. However, for reasons best known to the authorities, the equipments for the CCTV surveillance system costing over Rs 70 lakh and also funded under the MPLAD scheme, started gathering dust at Curchorem from day one. 
 
 Senior police officials told TOI that it was imperative for the government to invest in more electronic surveillance infrastructure than on human intervention to prevent crimes and also as an investigative tool.
 
 “A good quality recording helps investigators to watch an entire incident unfold in detail, providing information about the sequence of events, the modus operandi used in the crime, the entry and exit routes taken by the culprits, and more. Even if an offender cannot be identified directly from the CCTV footage, it can lead to collection of some forensic evidence if the recording shows a suspect touching a surface,” a senior police official said.
 
 
