SHIMLA: In a major relief to Yoga Guru Ramdev, Himachal Pradesh cabinet on Friday decided to consider the request to restore the lease of 28 acres land allotted to   at Sadhupul in Solan district by previous BJP regime in 2010. Three years back, the lease of this land was cancelled by the government. But for the restoration of lease, cabinet has imposed the condition that first the Patanjali Yogpeeth would have to withdraw the court case unconditionally.

 In the cabinet meeting chaired by chief minister Virbhadra Singh, it was decided to consider the request of Patanjali Yogpeeth Trust Haridwar (Uttarakhand) to review its decision of cancellation of lease, provided that the Trust withdraws the civil writ petition filed by them in the high court. Sources said once that is done, approval would be given for the restoration of lease of government land for establishing a branch of Yoga and Ayurveda related medical science research, health, tourism and production of herbal medicinal plants at  , tehsil Kandaghat, Solan.
 
 In 2010, the then BJP government headed by then chief minister Prem Kumar Dhumal had allocated 28 acres of prime land on Kandaghat-Chail road on 99-year-lease basis to Ramdev.   leaders then were claiming that on this land, a children’s park was to be constructed and by allotting the land to Ramdev’s trust, the BJP government had violated rules. After coming to power, the Congress government through a cabinet decision on February 19, 2013, had decided to cancel the lease and on February 22, 2013, its possession was taken over by government amid heavy police security.
 
 In protest against the decision of state government, Patanjali Yogpeeth had filed a writ petition in Himachal Pradesh high court submitting that the lease deed was validly given to the Trust and it has spent about Rs 11 crores for the development of land and other structures. It stated that the government had entered into an agreement with Patanjali Yogpeeth to lease the land for 99 years but has taken the possession of land in illegal manner as once the lease was entered, the same can only be determined as per terms or through process of law. 
 
 After admitting the petition, the court on February 27, 2013, had directed the government to maintain status quo on this land.
 
 
