HYDERABAD: Acquisition of 270 properties for the proposed   from Uppal crossroads to Medipally on the Warangal highway is going to cost the   a bomb.

 The state government may have to spend a whopping Rs 550 crore to take over properties for the elevated corridor being proposed on the Highway 163. Interestingly, for construction of the seven-kilometre fourlane flyover itself, the government requires only Rs 600 crore.
 
 The flyover was first proposed by the municipal corporation and also suggested comprehensive transporta tion study done for   (HMR) a few years as it is one of the critical junctions from the traffic point of view. Since there has been a rapid increase in the traffic volume, the   a couple of years ago decided to widen the road between Uppal crossroads and Nalla Cher vu by acquiring about 300 properties. But many traders and locals opposed the move by the civic body and even held protests against the acquisition.
 
 Last year, the elevated corridor has been proposed under Strategic Road Development Plan (SRDP) and it was transferred to roads and building (R&B) department as the road is part of the NH 163. The ministry of road transport and highways (MORTH) in principle agreed to fund the project but made it clear that the land acquisition cost has to be borne by the state government.
 
 “The proposal has been sent to MORTH for clearance and funds and it is expected to be cleared soon. The government will also take a call whether the elevated corridor should be of fourlane or six,“ GHMC chief city planner S Devender Reddy told TOI.
 
 But the GHMC officials are preferring the four-lane corridor as it will have least land acquisition and less construction cost.
 
 Meanwhile, the municipal corporation has begun the process to take over properties for the flyover. “Of the properties getting affected, about 75 of them have earlier given consent to part with the road widening. Only the remaining properties have to be taken over,“ GHMC assistant city planner (Uppal) Nagi Reddy said.
 
