Just like most of the Bijibal albums,   has a few delectable melodies with high repeat value and fast numbers, which aren’t as top notch as his former tracks. 

 It has six songs, and starts on a very sweet note, with a number rendered by the composer himself.
  P S Rafeeque’s inventive lyrics make the opening track Maangappoolu poloru praayam as delicious as a succulent mango, right from the first line. Bijibal’s flavourful music can mesmerise listeners further like the first bite into the fruit and his rendition is enough to keep them savouring the composition till the end. It’s an outright simple, yet fascinating composition, that would definitely evoke nostalgia.
 
  Singer Sannidanandhan renders the next track Kada Thala Kola, a pacy number. The lyrics, just as the first song, stand out right at the beginning, but not in an impressive fashion. You lose interest in it wondering whether it will make any sense, if accompanied by the visuals. The instrumentation, that occasionally reminds you of Pooram interludes, could be what keeps you from skipping to the next in the album.
 
  Next up is yet another fast number by Sayanora, rendered in her signature style and the song has a hooking rhythm pattern and tune. But the song Venne Vennakkal Penne’s lyrics is strictly functional.
  Oruthari Aasha, sung by Vivek Moozhikkulam, has a naattakurinji keerthanam style serene start. Soon after the first line, Bijibal skilfully weaves in some modern music bits into it, though the rendition and lyrics continue to retain the classical flavour. This one might have some interesting picturisation, taking into account the fusion nature of the music and also the occasional, funny piece of lyric that Harinarayanan has brilliantly weaved in, like Eeyampaatta kanakkou naasam.
 
  Chembaavul Punnellin Choro… fame Pushpavathy’s is the voice that presents the song Thrissooru, which derives a large part of its charm from the lyrics, filled with thengyanu, kunthaanu, daavanu, gadyanu… all words and imageries that makes the Thrissur experience special. Funnily enough, the classical flavour that the tune is mixed with, further adds to the song’s humour quotient.
  Rounding out the album is the quintessential Thrissur song, Kaantha Njanum Varaam, presented in a new, interesting tune and rhythm by singer Vipinlal. The new version probably lacks the adorable innocence and romantic feel of the original, but not in a way that spoils the song’s overall appeal. But can it guarantee an outright repeat value? Doubtful!
 
 
