GURUGRAM: Between July 13 and 16, at the city’s Academy of   Arts, chef  , pâtissier and chocolatier, was conducting a masterclass on what goes into making ‘petit gateau’ and ‘entremet’ (a ‘petit gâteau’ is a small chocolate cake with a filling, served with ice-cream, an ‘entremet’ a cake-based dessert).

 This is just one part of a season of masterclasses. From July 17 to 21, chef Emmanuele Forcone, the recent world pastry champion, will hold forth on how best to create a sugar display, while between July 28 and 31, chef Martin Chiffers – for whom the moniker Mr Pastry would not be out of place – will hold a masterclass on chocolate displays. 
 
 All three chefs – Le Teuff, Forcone and Chiffers – are leading lights in their line of work, so no better men under whom enthusiastic pâtissiers can pick up techniques new and old, processes funky and traditional.
 
 Major Dinesh Sharma – co-founder, Academy of Pastry Arts – said that the objective behind the masterclasses was to recognise pastry making as a career (and also an art), something that is more than just a latest industry fad. “Our masterclasses act in bridging this gap, enabling all pastry chefs, home bakers and industry professionals to get their skills enhanced.”
 
 The masterclasses aren’t the only thing happening in the city. On July 18, the Academy of Pastry Arts will be hosting the annual India Pastry Cup 2017, the national contest to determine the best young pastry chefs in the country. It may be the most Gallic of desserts but the academy is keen to prove that the pastry can be successfully ‘Made in India’. 
 
 Still, these pâtissiers know they have their task cut out, for their work will be judged by a jury consisting of chef Forcone (who was also on the jury for the World Pastry Cup 2017, in France), chef Vincent Bourdin (director, Asian Pastry Cup, Singapore), chef Avijit Ghosh (Corporate Pastry chef, Leela Hotels) and chef Parvinder Singh Bali (Corporate chef, The Oberoi Centre of Learning and Development).
 
 The winners of the India Pastry Cup will be travelling to Singapore in 2018, to represent India in the Asian Pastry Cup. 
 
 Earlier this year, a team from the academy returned from Singapore with a bronze medal (they went on to take part in the World Pastry Cup 2017).
 
 
