NEW DELHI: Monday’s incident in which a   lost his life and four others were seriously injured while fleeing a mob in west Delhi’s Jaffarpur is not a one-off case. A few weeks ago, a 15-member   detection team was roughed up in Mundka as well. Such attacks are on the rise and they are getting more brazen and organised, of late. 

 Power pilferage is a common offence in India, which still loses over 14-15% of electricity to thefts. Jaffarpur alone has seen losses of around 60%. In the past five years, nearly 14,000 cases (33,000KW) have been detected in the area.
 
 “Since privatisation in 2002, the overall loss figures have reduced by 43%. However, many areas continue to witness 25-50% of the power supply being lost to such thefts,” said a BSES spokesperson. BSES Yamuna manages power supply in east and central Delhi areas while BSES Rajdhani caters to south and west Delhi. 
 
 The notorious localities include Najafgargh, Jaffarpur, Mundka, Nand Nagari, Turkman Gate, Yamuna Vihar,Wazirabad and  . However,   officials clarify that the malpractice is not restricted to any particular consumer profile, but all types of people are equally involved in the   of electricity.
 
 For Tata Power, which manages north and northwest Delhi, supply thefts are decreasing by 10-12 % every year, but it continues to face resistance in areas like Bawana, Narela, Kirari and Bhakhtawarpur besides JJ clusters of Jahangirpuri, Sultanpuri and Mangolpuri. “These pockets not only cause revenue loss but also overload the distribution network, thus impacting the reliability of power supply,” said a discom official.
 
 According to power companies, whenever enforcement teams reach these places, the unscrupulous elements “gherao” them and prevent them from checking their premises. Officials are threatened and attacked if they insist on inspecting their houses. Till 2009, power theft detection teams were accompanied by   personnel. The   arrangement was withdrawn in 2009 due to elections and hasn’t been resumed since. Power experts are of the view that a similar arrangement will help curbing attacks on its staff.
 
 Despite the use of tamper-proof meters and smart meter reading devices, the cat and mouse game between the power thieves and suppliers continues. 
 
