GANDHINAGAR: The matter of   allegedly made to around 10   by gangster Ravi Pujari was raised by leader of opposition   in the assembly on Tuesday. Pradipsinh Jadeja, minister of state (home), gave the assurance that adequate security would be provided to the threatened Congress MLAs and action against the gangster will be taken the help of central agencies. 

 Incidentally, Amul chief RS Sodhi had earlier received a Rs25 cr extortion call from a member of the Pujari gang. Sodhi had also lodged a complaint with the police. However, cops are still wondering why Sodhi, who is a salaried employee, had received an extortion call.
 
 Vaghela said that in the last one-and-half month, Congress’s Gujarat in-charge Gurudas Kamat and 10 MLAs including Shaktisinh Gohil, CK Raulji, Amit Chavda, Hirabhai Patel, Govabhai Rabari, Pirjada and Chandrikaben Bariya had received threatening calls from the gangster. 
 
 “It is a very serious matter that the extortion calls are being made when the PM is visiting Gujarat,” Vaghela said. “Phone calls are coming from America, Laos, Algeria, Molibiya, Thailand, Croatia, Bhutan, Pakistan and Turkey. The central government needs to rise above party rivalry and take action to trace the calls coming from abroad and tackle such elements.” 
 
 Vaghela further said that these calls are coming from more than 10 countries. “In his message to our MLA C K Raulji, the gangster has threatened that he will kill Raulji just like councillor Pragnesh Patel unless Raulji paid up Rs 10 crore,” the Congress leader said.
 
 He also said that he wanted the central government to intervene and verify whether these calls were being made by the gangster Ravi Pujari or someon else. “Somebody may be trying to mislead the authorities using technology. The central government’s agencies such RAW should find it out,’’ said Vaghela.
 
 In his reply, Pradipsinh Jadeja said the chief minister had instructed the state administration to take all such threat calls — whether they were made to an MLA or an ordinary citizen — very seriously. 
 
 “Recently sharpshooters who had come to kill a Jamnagar businessman were nabbed,” Jadeja said. “We arrested even from Thailand the killers of councillor Pragnesh Patel. We are taking all necessary action.” 
 
 Jadeja further said that prime facie no direct involvement of the Ravi Pujari gang had been found. “But investigation is going on,” he said. “We assure full security to the MLAs or whoever has received such a threat. We are also taking the help of central agencies.’’
 
 Who is Ravi Pujari: Ravi Pujari is a gangster who runs an extortion from somewhere outside India, perhaps an African country. Gujarat police say that in the past one year, Pujari has made more than 50 extortion calls to professionals, traders, doctors, politicians and builders in Gujarat. Ahmedabad crime branch is probing five cases of extortion against Pujari along with Gujarat ATS. Police say many of his victims had quietly paid up.
 
 Pujari was earlier part of Dawood Ibrahim’s gang (D-gang) in Mumbai. Now, however, Pujari runs his own extortion racket. 
 
 
