TRICHY: A 34-year-old   ( ) allegedly committed suicide by jumping in front of a moving train near   in   on Friday evening. 

 The Government Railway Police (GRP) identified the deceased as M Venkatesan of Rettipalayam in Thanjavur. Venkatesan was working as a VAO in Thalayamangalam in Orathanadu taluk in Thanjavur district. He was said to be in-charge of Karai Meendarkottai village too.
 
 Functionaries of the Tamil Nadu Grama Nirvaga Aluvalar Munnetra Sangam (VAOs’ association) alleged that work pressure and humiliation from higher officials had forced Venkatesan to take the extreme step. 
 
 Venkatesan allegedly jumped in front of the Karaikal – Ernakulam Express train near Vannarapettai railway station while he was returning home after work. Some railway employees found his body lying on the tracks. His wife V Ilakkiaya and his father Mohandass, a retired thansildar, rushed to the spot and identified his body.
 
 Venkatesan and Ilakkiya had got married six months ago. 
 
 On the basis of a complaint lodged by Ilakkiya, the GRP registered a case and sent the body to Thanjavur Government Medical College Hospital for postmortem, said railway special sub-inspector and investigating officer Jayakumar. The railway police began investigations.
 
 Meanwhile, functionaries of Tamil Nadu Grama Nirvaga Aluvalar Munnetra Sangam alleged the VOA took the extreme step due to work pressure from his senior officials.
 
 State secretary of Tamil Nadu Grama Nirvaga Aluvalar Munnetra Sangam S Sundarrajan said revenue officials had been pressurising VOAs to complete the process of enumerating farmers for the purpose of distributing drought relief. He alleged that the officials wanted the VAOs to “complete the process overnight.” 
 
 “We have to collect copies of farmers’ Aadhaar cards, bank passbooks, patta and chitta and other required documents in support of their land as well as their identification. It is not possible to collect everything overnight. But our higher officials keep on pressurising us. Moreover, the ongoing work of uprooting seema karuvelam trees is also adding more work pressure. Since the district administration has fixed a timeframe to complete the work, we have to look after that too without required staff”, he further said.
 
 However, the investigation officer said the victim’s family members had not stated anything about work pressure in the petition.
 
 
