NAGPUR:   party in Nagpur Municipal Corporation split vertically on Tuesday. The new group claiming a majority has elected senior corporator Tanaji Vanve as its leader. There are 29 elected Congress corporators in the civic house. The decision was taken at a requisitioned meeting of the party corporators convened after a prior notice.

 The move is seen as a major setback to city Congress president Vikas Thakre and his mentor Vilas Muttemwar who in their bid to dominate the civic affairs had pushed through the appointment of Sanjay Mahakalkar as leader of opposition even though he did not have majority support. 
 
 Since then, there was raging anger among the elected members and it exploded in the form of a split. The rebel group was part of a delegation of over 50 Congressmen from the city who last month met Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi, MPCC president Ashok Chavan as well as   in-charge of state Mohan Prakash, and had detailed deliberations on the issue.
 
 “We called a meeting of the elected members as per civic rules. Seventeen of the 29 members attended it. The meeting held at   on Wardha Road around 10am was presided over by senior corporator Harshala Sable. The group expressed their lack of faith in Sanjay Mahakalar as leader of opposition and voted for a change,” Vanve told ToI after meeting divisional commissioner Anoop Kumar. 
 
 The group submitted a letter signed by 17 corporators which said Vanve was elected as the new group leader of the party in the civic house. Copies were forwarded to mayor Nanda Jichkar and municipal commissioner Ashwin Mudgal.
 
 With this development, the Thakre group may lose its say in the nomination process for the lone co-opted member on the   which is to take place on Thursday. This is because Mahakalkar is most likely to lose position as the Congress leader in the house and even if he puts forth Thakre’s nomination, it would be open for a legal challenge, party sources said.
 
 “We have the majority in the house and are confident that the divisional commissioner would recognize it. This is not a party split, such change of party leader by a majority support is in keeping with civic norms,” insisted Vanve. His election was supported by Praful Gudadhe, Rishikesh (Bunty) Shelke and 15 other Congress corporators.
 
 Senior party leaders, ex-MP Gev Awari, ex-MLA Ashok Dhawad were among those present when the 17 corporators signed the letter seeking change of group leader. “All efforts were made at every level of the party to amicable resolve differences. But when the party high command refused to budge, these corporators took a decision on their own,” said a senior corporator justifying the rebel move.
 
 Meanwhile, The ruling   on Tuesday announced its list of four to be nominated as co-opted members to the NMC. The four nominees are: Sunil Agarwal, Munna Pokulwar, Kishor Wankhede and Nishant Gandhi.
 
 Agarwal is a four-term corporator and could not contest elections from his Sadar ward because of reservation restriction. Pokulwar is former deputy mayor with rich civic experience and switched over to the BJP from Congress some years ago. Wankhede is CM Devendra Fadnavis’s choice while Nishant, son of socialite Girish Gandhi, is Nitin Gadkari nominee.
 
 
