HYDERABAD: Upset over repeated allegations by   parties, the TRS government has decided to introduce a stringent law to prosecute those who levels ‘baseless’ charges against the ruling regime. “We will soon enact a ‘prove or perish’ law,” chief minister   announced in   on Saturday.

 The law is aimed at Opposition parties and media which make such charges. Speaking on the resolution to thank the Governor for his address, the CM in a stern voice said “anyone who levels allegations have to show evidence to prove accusations. If there is no evidence, they will be prosecuted. We are preparing a law that will facilitate legal action against anyone levelling baseless allegations against the government.”
 
 Taking exception to comments by Opposition leaders to the Governor’s speech, the chief minister challenged them to point out a single lie. “If anybody points out one word or one sentence that is not correct or a lie, I am ready to resign,” said an exasperated CM and requested political parties not to ‘curse the youngest state’.
 
 Unable to control his anger over comments against redesign of irrigation projects by Opposition parties, the CM clarified it was not meant to benefit him. “I have a list of who is doing what. Who is filing cases against the government and who are providing legal assistance to cases aimed at stalling the projects. The list will soon be made public. The irrigation minister is likely to release the list in the House during a debate on the irrigation demands,” said the chief minister.
 
 The CM pointed out the system is precious and if not protected, then ‘it will burn everybody’s feet.’ Evoking the Telangana sentiment, the CM said Andhra rulers have looted jobs of Telangana youth. “I request unemployed youth of the state not to fall into the trap of Opposition parties, who are a group of unemployed politicians,” he said.
 
 The CM promised to fill up one lakh vacancies in various government departments in next two years and in the same breath, questioned why   could provide only 3 lakh jobs in 60 years when there are 1.03 crore families in the state.
 
