PUNE: Mayor Mukta Tilak’s statement in Nashik that Brahmin youths have to leave the country and look for opportunities abroad because of the reservation policy has kicked off a political storm.

 Adressing a Brahmin community meeting in Nashik on Friday, Tilak made this controversial statement referring to reservations and said that Brahmin youths prefer to work in foreign countries as they don’t get a fair chance in the country. She also said that people from other communities took out massive marches (for reservation), but Brahmins did not feel the need to do so. 
 
 Tilak’s statement comes against the backdrop of the recent Maratha marches across the state demanding reservation. While BJP leaders were in a tight spot clarifying Tilak’s statement, the Nationalist   held an agitation on Saturday in front of her residence at Tilak wada. Party leader and NCP corporator Chetan Tupe said, “Tilak had made an anti-constitutional statement and poisoned the social harmony. She herself has availed the benefit of reservation to become a mayor.” NCP MLA Jitendra Awhad said Tilak should tender an apology and a case under the Atrocities Act must be filed against her.
 
 Members of Sambhaji Brigade held a protest demonstration at the   demanding that Tilak must withdraw her statement and apologize. The Republican Party of India (Gawai faction) demanded that the state government must clarify its stand on Tilak’s statement. The city   has organized a protest on Sunday to denounce Tilak’s statement.
 
 However, BJP leaders in the city and state preferred to keep quiet on the matter as a senior leader said the party has already faced many troubles on this sensitive issue. Recently, Rashtriya   chief Mohan Bhagwat’s statement on reservations had led to similar controversy and the national BJP leaders had to clarify that the party was in support of reservation for backward classes.
 
 Even as the controversy continued to simmer, Tilak said her statement was being “exaggerated”. Tilak told reporters: “ My statement has been exaggerated. I said that in the last 60 years there was no atmosphere in the country where youths could use their skill and hence they used to go abroad”. She said her statement must not be connected in any way to the party’s policy on reservation.
 
 But organisers of the meeting came out in support of Tilak and said that she did make a statement about reservations depriving Brahmins of jobs and the community agrees with her completely. 
 
