NAGPUR: The Sports Authority of India’s (SAI) proposed regional centre on the civic body’s 141.51 acres has received a major jolt.

 Two developers have allegedly sold 20 acres by laying two layouts in an illegal manner over a decade ago. Now, the   (NMC) has woken up from its deep slumber and started to prove its ownership on the land.
 
 Over nine months ago, the NMC had leased out 141.51 acres to SAI for developing the nation’s 12th regional centre. The huge space is spread over an area of two authorities: 28 acres situated in   in city limits and the remaining 113.51 acres in Mouza Tarodi in Kamptee tehsil.
 
 The SAI, through the state public works department (PWD), City Survey office and NMC started demarcation of 28 acres in the city limit in October last year and completed the work a few days ago.
 
 “Our team witnessed around 25 residential structures in 28 acres when we started demarcation. It shocked all, so inspection of the remaining land was taken up. Seven houses were found in khasra no. 55 and 49 in khasra no. 56 that fall under the Kamptee tehsil’s jurisdiction. A detailed enquiry revealed that Sagar Developers laid an unauthorized layout and sold 623 plots on 11 acres of khasra no. 55. Similarly, Snehal Developers sold 352 plots on 9 acres of khasra no. 56,” an NMC official told TOI.
 
 The NMC has lodged an FIR with the Nandanwan police seeking registration of an offence against the two developers. A complaint was also lodged with the district administration seeking correction in 7/12 of the land.
 
 “There is no problem with documents of 28 acres in the city limits as 25 residential structures are totally unauthorized. These structures will be removed by the NMC through a simple process. The names of two developers and a few persons who purchased the plots are registered in 7/12 of 20 of the total 113.51 acres at Mouza Tarodi. Therefore, the process to delete the names and replace by the NMC has started. Accordingly, SAI’s name as lease holder will be registered on the land,” the official added.
 
 NMC sources told TOI all this happened only because of the civic body’s negligence. “The   (NIT) had acquired land for sewage disposal scheme in 1960s. It handed over the land to the NMC after acquisition. However, the NMC did not register its name in the City Survey office for land in city limits and also with the Kamptee tehsil office for the once in Mouza Tarodi. It gave a chance to the developers or those who sold out to the developers to execute sale deeds and registered their names,” sources said.
 
 Rani Nighot Dwivedi, member of board of governors in Nehru Yuva Kendra (the state government body under the ministry of sports and youth affairs), said the NMC has assured to raze all unauthorized constructions and clear the controversies. “The PWD started demarcation of the land. Then, it will submit the project’s estimated cost to SAI. The PWD will get funds approval for beginning construction,” said.
 
 It is also learnt that the NMC will be required to battle out against the two developers in the district court as they have filed objection following the police complaint.
 
 
