CHENNAI: The state transport department has initiated action to suspend the licences of 5,000 people based on recommendations of the Chennai traffic police.

 Between September 1 and 17, the traffic police sent 8,225 driving licences for suspension for various violations, including drunk driving. The number was around 5,700 between January 1 and August 31. It is now for the transport authorities to cancel these licences.
 
 Most recently , the move to suspend the driving licence of actor  , who hit his car against the parapet wall of the Adyar flyover under the influence of alcohol early on Thursday , signals the tough stand the traffic police department will take against erring motorists.Additional commissioner (traffic)   told TOI that the department would take to task anyone found flouting the rules. "We will not spare anyone, no matter how famous that person is, for violating traffic rules.We will recommend the transport authorities to suspend their driving licences," said Periaiah. The number of cases re ferred by the traffic police to the transport department had gone up after fresh recruitment and promotions in August, Periaiah said. Only sub-inspectors and those ranked above can book cases. "We have the sufficient strength to enforce traffic rules and book cases," he said.
 
 The officer said the high court's order directing all motorists to carry original licences had given teeth to the enforcement authorities. Earlier, people would produce photocopied documents and get away. "We don't allow people time to reach their so-called sources now.Since the original licence is at hand, we register cases and generate an e-challan. We also send the offender to the nearest government hospital to get a certificate from the doctors to confirm whether he is under the influence of alcohol or not," said Periaiah.
 
 A law enforcement officer can recommend suspension of driving licence under the categories of drunk driving, jumping signals, speeding, talking on the phone while driving, overloading a goods vehicles, and carrying people in goods vehicles.
 
 Between January 1 and September 31, the traffic police registered 14,37, 816 cases. But the enforcement drive switched gears after August when the department strength grew and carrying original driving licences became mandatory . Police have so far collected `16.39 crore from traffic violators and deposited the amount in the state treasury.
 
