Aurangabad: Cases awaiting report from the forensic department may soon become things of the past as the Maharashtra Director General of Police has decided to appoint at least one officer from each police unit across the state for coordinating with the respective forensic laboratory.

 These   will be tasked with coordinating, taking frequent follow-ups and ensure that the labs issue report and give expert opinion within stipulated time, read an internal circular from the DGP office — a copy of which is with TOI.
 
 As per the standard, the forensic reports or Chemical Analysis (CA) report of the viscera, should reach the investigation officer before filing of the chargesheet. For offences having punishment of less than 10 years, the stipulated time for submitting chargesheet is 60 days, while for serious cases attracting imprisonment of above 10 years, the stipulated time for submitting chargesheet is 90 days.
 
 The decision has been taken after the DGP office found that chargesheets in several crucial cases were either not submitted for want of forensic lab reports or an incomplete chargesheet was submitted.
 
 Till date, the investigation officer in a given case would follow-up with the forensic labs for getting the reports, making it difficult for commissioner or superintendent of police to keep a track of all cases awaiting reports from the labs.
 
 Additional director general of police Rajender Singh said, “The move is aimed at improving coordination between police and forensic labs, so that the criminal justice system does not suffer.”
 
 The officer went on to state that in most of the cases the chargesheets filed sans forensic reports, fail the test in the court of law and the accused end up getting acquitted. Singh, who is ADG (provisions), is currently holding charge of the establishment department as well.
 
 Maharashtra has 35 district police units, each headed by superintendent of police ranks officers and 10 police commissionorates. Following the latest directive from state police headquarters, Maharashtra will have 45 nodal officers from the police department, while the agencies like the Crime Investigation Department (CID) too will have their respective nodal officers in each of their units.
 
 Senior police officers at state police headquarters said the forensic labs in the state have their own limitations, including manpower and infrastructure crunch.
 
 
