CHANDIGARH:   (IIT) Ropar, will finally begin shifting to its new campus spread over 501 acres in July this year.   for the   was laid in 2009, and since then both students and faculty have been anxiously waiting for completion of the project.

 IIT-Ropar director Sarit Kumar Das told TOI on Thursday that shifting to the new campus will begin this summer in phases. The permanent campus has come up in Birla Seed Farms, which is on the outskirts of Ropar, on the banks of Satluj. The contract to build the campus was given to a Bangkok-based construction company.
 
 “The IIT is looking forward to a big leap as this summer nearly 800 students and four academic departments, along with the entire academic set up will move to the new campus. After this partial shifting, work on the complex will continue till March 19, 2018, simultaneously. The complete relocation is expected to be complete by summer of 2019,” he said.
 
 The institute, which has been running from a government polytechnic, has had its share of teething troubles as initially it took more than two years to appoint an architect and start construction on the new building, which put brakes on the IIT’s expansion plans. Other new IITs, including the one in Mandi had already got their own buildings in 2015.
 
 Due to space constraint, the institute had to limit the number of seats in its post-graduate courses. The decision to establish new IITs was taken by the Centre in 2008 and it was officially launched a year later.
 
 But despite this, IIT-Ropar stood out among the new IITs in terms of its most coveted course – Bachelors in Computer Science and Engineering during the counselling sessions. In 2015, it was next only to IIT-Hyderabad. It has fared much better than IITs in Indore, Patna, Jodhpur and Bhubaneswar. IIT-Gandhinagar is not listed for the course.
 
  The relocation, he added, coincides with the IIT bringing in new curriculum that will make the new academic session exciting for the students. After taking over two years back, Das set a deadline for completion of the new complex. The first phase of the project includes computer science block, chemistry block, lecture hall and boys and girls hostels.
 
