AHMEDABAD: In a major breakthrough,   nabbed three persons — including two  : head constable   and constable Kunjan Patel of the Ranip police station — for robbing a woman of Rs 47 lakh in old currency. The third accused arrested, Hardik Ranjan, is a police informer and a civil engineer turned labour contractor who arranges workers for construction sites. Police sources said senior police officials are now worried about the growing criminal nexus between some cops and their informers.

 “This is the third incident in which cops have been involved in robbing old currency notes after demonetization,” said a senior police official. “While the first one ended in a compromise, in the second a cop was booked for extortion by the Ellisbridge police.” As for the current case, according to crime branch officials, three businessmen — Jignesh Pandya, Pankaj Soni, and Umesh Patel — had given the old currency to Jaydeep Patel and his friend Suchit Shah to have it exchanged. Patel in turn was to get the job done through Bharat Vyas and Sujal Patel.
 
 “Bharat and Sujal were relying on Hardik,” said a crime branch official. “On February 3, it was Hardik who double-crossed them and tipped off Mahendrasinh and Kunjan about the location and description of Jaydeep Patel’s wife, Mittal, who was carrying the cash in a bag on her scooter.” When she was leaving for Shahibaugh with her cousin Umang Patel to get the old notes exchanged, Mahendrasinh and Kunjan intercepted her near Ranip Circle. “They took the driving licences of Mittal and Umang and the bag containing the cash and drove away asking Mittal to come to Ranip police station,” said a crime branch official.
 
 Meanwhile, the three businessmen confined Jaydeep Patel and Suchit Shah to an office on CG Road and made calls to their family for the recovery of money. “However, we able to secure the release of Jaydeep and Suchit the same day and arrested seven accused including the three businessmen for the kidnapping,” said inspector of the crime branch, Kiran Chaudhary. Crime branch sources said CCTV footage and call records made their job easy as they were able to establish that Hardik and the two cops were constantly in touch with the latter providing minute-by-minute location details of Mittal to them.
 
 “We haven’t recovered the demonetized currency yet,” said a senior crime branch official. “While Hardik says the cash is with the two cops, the cops say it is with Hardik.”
 
 
 
 
 During interrogation, Hardik Ranjan started boasting his relations with some senior police officials, saying he regularly provided vital tip-offs to them. “His intention was to put us under pressure but it backfired,” said a senior crime branch official.
 
 
 
 
 Crime branch officials said they suspect that the trio of Hardik Ranjan, and the cops Mahendrasinh and Kunjan could be involved in more such robberies, especially after demonetization. 
 
 
