THANE: The 32-kg gold heist executed at   in   was jointly carried out by a   and another one from Jharkand’s  , which is infamous as a “hub” for training and carrying out such robberies by digging the walls, the police said.

 The police have identified all the 17 robbers of which 14 are absconding with the stolen booty. Teams of police officers have fanned out, but have managed to arrest only three. 
 
 On December 26, the burglars broke into the gold finance company and decamped with 32 kg of gold ornaments valued at around Rs 9 crore. The police got their first breakthrough recently and arrested the mastermind, who is allegedly involved in more than a dozen similar heists across the country. “The gang meticulously plants a Nepalese security guard at gold loan companies as well as even banks,” said Parag Manere, deputy police commissioner (crime). 
 
 “The infiltrators study the layout of the building thoroughly and then pass on the information to the Sahebgunj gang. Men from Sahebgunj’s hamlets Palashgacchi, Laukatola and Piyarpur come to the city to plan the heist. They are experts in all types of heavy fabrication work,” Manere informed.
 
 The burglars come to cities on the basis of tip-offs received from the Nepalese security guards and under the cover of selling fruits or juice carry out the recce of their target. 
 
 Some of the burglars have in-depth knowledge on the specifications of safes and lockers. “They pulverize metal with gas cutters and know exactly, which are the vulnerable points. After the heist is executed, the men flee to villages bordering Nepal,” said an officer.
 
 Several policemen are camping undercover in Sahebgunj district to home in on the accused or at least get clues on their whereabouts. Cops have cracked the December 26 Ulhasnagar heist with the arrest of the kingpin and two others. 
 
 A photograph by an accused travelling by train, showing snacks and fruit drink packs tucked into the berth, gave away the game of the robbers. Investigators tracked him down and his confession led the arrest of three, including the mastermind. 
 
 
