AHMEDABAD: An architecture student went to a city-based psychiatrist with complaints of constant low mood, lack of creative ideas, and  . On investigation, he admitted that on suggestion of a mitted that on suggestion of a friend he had begun taking cannabis for his condition, and had hallucinations when under the influence of the drug. He was diagnosed with depression and his condition improved significantly when treated with anti-depressants. Such cases have become more frequent in the state. 

 According to the   (NMHS) 2016, conducted by NIMHANS and other agencies, experts estimated 1.24% of adults in Gujarat are depressed.
 
 As the theme of   this year, on April 7, is `Depression: Let's Talk' this year, citybased mental health practitioners paint a grim picture.
 
 Dr Ajay Chauhan, su perintendent of Government Hospital for Mental Health, said the survey shows one in 15 persons had mental health problems like depression, anxiety disorders and substance-use disorders. He added that this year's theme for World Health Day is apt, as according to the survey, only 25% of those suf fering from mental disorders get treatment from the formal medical sector. “If not addressed in time, depression leads to suicides in 25% of instances, an another 25% develop suicidal thoughts or attempt suicide,“ he said.
 
 Dr Hansal Bhachech, a citybased psychiatrist, said depression is catching the young and old.“Earlier, depression was associated with middle-age where a person faces with the pressures of career and personal life. “Now, we see the onset of depression from late teens, as they have fewer people to talk to in face of peer pressure.“
 
 `Social media worsening things'
 
 Greater connectivity and instant sharing on social media has raised levels of peer pressure, thus leading to frequent depression among youth, say experts. “Every person tries to project the best persona with perfect partnersfriends, locales and clothes. There's enormous peer pressure to be seen to pursue a better life or at least look better. Self-esteem now depends on `likes' or comments, and thus there is a need to educate the young about the pitfalls,“ said a city-based expert.
 
 Gujarat's suicide rate 11.6 in 2015, India's was 10.6
 
 The   (NCRB) data on suicides shows that in 2014, Gujarat had a suicide rate (suicides per one lakh people) of 11.7, which went to 11.6 in 2015. However, in both these years, the national average suicide rate was 10.6. The suicide rate for women in Gujarat was 9.06 against a national average of 7.24 in 2014.
 
