PATNA/BUXAR: Miscreants lifted the luggage worth around Rs4 lakh of some passengers travelling in the A2, B7 and B8 coaches of the New Delhi-Patna   (12310) between Gahmar and Bhadaura railway stations under   of East Central Railway (ECR) early Sunday morning. When the passengers created a ruckus after reaching  , the   lodged a zero FIR in this connection as the place of occurrence was in the neighbouring Uttar Pradesh (UP).
 
  According to Patna superintendent of railway police (SRP) Jitendra Mishra, preliminary investigations revealed that it was a case of theft in the three coaches of the Rajdhani Express after the train stopped at the outer signal of Bhadaura due to red signal between 3.29am and 3.53am. The miscreants alighted from the train and escaped with the booty under the cover of darkness, he said, adding GRP personnel along with Buxar police have launched a combing operation in the area.
  
  The SRP said no arrest was made so far in the case and the zero FIR was sent to UP police for necessary action.
  
  Manish Agrawal,  , Abhisekh and others lodged their complaints with the Patna GRP about the theft of their valuables from the coaches while they were asleep. Valuables worth about Rs4 lakh were stolen, the SRP said, adding that a coach attendant was, however, detained for interrogation.
  
  Danapur DRM R K Jha said railways took the theft matter seriously and suspended one RPF ASI and six RPSF constables of the escort party for dereliction of duty. The attendants of the particular coaches and the train superintendent were also being questioned by a departmental probe team, he said.
  
  Sources in Railway Board said, railway minster Suresh Prabhu asked the RPF DG to look into the matter seriously and bring the culprits to book soon. Prabhu also directed the RPF DG to get in touch with Bihar DGP to curb crime on wheels at any cost, sources said.
  
  It was perhaps for the first time that an incident of theft or loot occurred in any Rajdhani Express under Danapur division of ECR. The most surprising question was how the miscreants boarded the train in the guise of passengers. Policemen believed they boarded the train at Mughalsarai where it had stoppage. Unauthorized passengers were not allowed to board Rajdhani Express midway as per railway rules, sources said.
