While Beliebers can’t wait for their idol, the 23-year-old global pop sensation   to arrive in   for his   Tour, those behind the scenes are frantically trying to meet his special requirements. 
We hear the Canadian singer will land in Mumbai from Dubai on May 7, ahead of his performance on May 10, and head straight to the hotel with his entourage of 120 people. Ten luxury sedans and two Volvo buses will be at the disposal of his convoy throughout their stay, while a Rolls-Royce has been reserved for the Grammy winner himself. 
 
 Apart from Bieber’s own security personnel, an additional cover of Z+ security and   personnel have been arranged. And that’s not all! A source reveals, “Ten containers, comprising a ping-pong table, playstation, IO HAWK (hoverboards), sofa set, washing machine, refrigerator, upholstery, cupboard and a massage table that will be used backstage, will be flown down. A jacuzzi has also been requested backstage, so that he can relax before he takes to the stage!”
 
 The source adds, “Two five-star hotels have been reserved for security reasons. Top culinary experts will supervise the food being served to Bieber, and the dishes will be renamed after his popular songs. Rooms with the best view in the quietest part of the hotel with king-size beds are a prerequisite. So is a 24- hour fitness centre with a steam room. The hotel will re-design his suite and incorporate Mughal paintings, antique furniture and signature Kashmiri linen. His room will be adorned with purple carnations, purple being his favourite colour. The hotel will convert itself into Bieber’s private villa, with three floors booked for the artiste and his entourage. Also, one elevator has been blocked for Bieber alone.” 
 
 The source says, “A special Indian yoga basket containing aromatic essential oils, jasmine, mogra, rose and camphor incense sticks, and books on yoga will be placed in Bieber’s suite, given his love for it. An expert masseuse will be specially flown in from Kerala for the star.” Apparently, his special requests also consist of 100 hangers, cans of wild berries, vanilla room fresheners and hydrating lip balms. 
 The promoters have also kept a private jet and chopper on stand-by to meet the artiste’s immediate travel demands. Bieber will fly to the stadium on a chopper. 
 
 We hear that a total of 13 rooms have been allocated to him and his team backstage. They will have silverware, fresh flowers (no lilies), scented candles, health foods like coconut water, almond milk, 
 strawberry and vanilla protein powder, raw organic honey, decaffeinated herbal teas, fresh fruits and vegetable platters made available to them. Bieber has also requested that his dressing room be entirely draped with white curtains. He has also asked for a large glass-door refrigerator, clothing shelves, eight power outlets and a dozen white handkerchiefs. That’s one pop royalty, we must say. 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
