KOLKATA: Emerging from a   at Nabanna on Monday, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said the situation in Bengal wasn’t yet grave enough to warrant a ‘flood-affected’ tag but blamed the   for   in the state and inconveniencing people. Irrigation minister Rajib Banerjee later shot off a letter to the Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC), asking it to limit the release of water from dams at Panchet and Maithon to 10,000 cusec. 

 Speaking before her departure to Delhi, Mamata said the state government was prepared to combat a   situation and had kept relief material ready. “Some people are getting affected because Jharkhand is releasing water without informing us. Low-lying blocks like Labhpur in Birbhum, Ghatal in West Midnapore and Ghohat and Arambagh in Hooghly are inundated as are some parts of Purulia and East Midnapore. But there is no flood-like situation in Bengal yet,” she said. 
 
 There have been heavy showers since Friday that have raised the water level in rivers and dams. According to DVC officials, the dam areas recorded 67mm rain on Sunday, adding 28,500 cusec water in Panchet and 9,500 cusec in Maithon, necessitating the release.
 
 “There is no controversy over the release of water. It is decided by the Damodar Valley River Regulatory Authority in which representatives from the Centre, Bengal and Jharkhand government are present. The irrigation department of Bengal are fully aware of the situation. The district magistrates and state administrators are kept informed whenever we release water,” the DVC official said.
 
 On Monday, Bengal’s irrigation minister asked DVC to not release more than 10,000 cusec water. DVC officials said they had not received the letter till evening but pointed out it would be difficult to comply with it if the heavy downpour continued. 
 
 Over 15,000 people in West Midnapore, Hooghly, Bankura, Burdwan and East Burdwan have been displaced due to inundation. Many have taken shelter at relief camps opened by Bharat Sevashram and other organisations. The government is yet to open any relief camp in any of these districts with senior officials asserting that water hadn’t crossed the danger mark in any of the rivers.
 
 At West Midnapore, some 25,000 hectare agricultural land is under water in Ghatal, Kharagpur and Midnapore areas following release of around 3 lakh cusec of water from the Taraseni, Galudi, Kangsabati and Rupnarayan barrages. Boats were seen ferrying people along submerged roads in Chandrakona. The Jhargram-Jamboni road, a major thoroughfare in the district, has been rendered unmotorable owing to inundation. Around 5,000 mud huts have been damaged in the inundated areas with residents shifting to relief camps opened by NGOs.
 
 In Hooghly, Arambagh subdivision is the worst-affected with damage to some 10,000 huts spread over low-lying Goghat and Khanakul after DVC released water from its barrage after 4 pm on Monday. “The DVC suddenly released several thousand cusec water. Thousands of homeless have been forced to take shelter in camps along the Bankura-Arambagh state highway.” Hooghly DM Sanjay Bansal said. 
 
 The administration in Burdwan and East Burdwan insisted that there was no flood situation in those areas either.
 
 
