PATNA: Amidst reports of a growing bonhomie between Prime Minister   and chief minister Nitish Kumar, Bihar’s ruling JDU decided on Monday to review its stand on   on January 23.

 “JDU national president Nitish Kumar has called a meeting of the party’s core committee on January 23 in Patna.
 
 Along with other important national issues, the party will discuss demonetisation’s effect,” party national spokesperson K C Tyagi said on Monday.
 
 Nitish has been supporting PM   on the note ban since its announcement on November 8 last year. During the Prakashotsava celebrations at Gandhi Maidan on January 5, the two leaders had praised each other on prohibition in their respective states. Tyagi said JDU supported the Centre’s move because it considered demonetisation as a step towards curbing black money and fighting corruption in the country.
 
 “The 50-day period sought by the PM to bring normalcy after the note ban is now over. But the larger portion of black money is floating in the form of bullion, unknown property and foreign deposits. It is true that farmers, labourers, small businessmen and daily-wagers have faced a tough time during this period. Hence, the party has decided to analyse the impact of notebandi,” he said.
 
 Earlier on Monday, Nitish said the JDU had convened a meeting of its core committee to discuss all “samsamyik (currently significant)” issues. On being asked whether the meeting would review the party’s stand on demonetisation Nitish said the media should not decide the agenda of his party’s meeting.
 
 Nitish said that before the JDU core committee meeting he would hold a “Jan Samvad” programme with RJD, JDU and Congress (the three grand alliance constituents) workers at the CM’s secretariat. “All members of the state cabinet will attend the meeting to hear the grievances of the ruling alliance leaders and workers,” he said.
 
 The CM also called upon all political parties to join the state government’s proposed human chain programme on January 21 to propagate the importance of prohibition. “Members of all political parties are invited to join the human chain, but they will have to come without their party flag and banners,” he said.
 
