Panaji: The state government’s ambitious project of converting non-recyclable plastic waste into fuel, which was derailed due to teething problems, is back on track, with finance and approvals coming through. It is now expected to be complete by March next year.

 The then deputy chief minister Francis D’Souza, had laid the foundation stone for the plant, the first of its kind in the state, on June 9 last year. It is now being constructed by the Goa State Urban Development Agency (GSUDA) in collaboration with Tamil Nadu-based M K Aromatics and the   Municipal council (PMC), and will come up on 8,000 sqm of leased land at the Pernem garbage treatment plant. 
 
 The project, which envisages a daily production of 6.7 tonnes of furnace oil, three tonnes of met coke and 500kg of wax from ten tonnes of plastic waste, ran into rough weather initially. “The project was affected as the PMC did not allot the land and issue the construction licence in time,” a GSUDA official said.
 
 The plant is now estimated to cost Rs 15 crore, which comprises a state grant of Rs 6 crore, a soft loan of Rs 6.5 crore and a Rs 2.5 crore investment by the Tamil Nadu-based company. “The issue of payments was also an irritant but has been sorted out now,” the official said.
 
 Goa generates about 500 tonnes of garbage daily, a sizeable portion of which is plastic. “Of this, non-recyclable waste will be converted into furnace oil and other back-end products,” the official said.
 
 Until now, each trip to transport the waste to cement factories outside the state cost as much as Rs 22,000. M K Aromatics, however, hopes to now stock the material at the site until the plant’s infrastructure is ready. The company has set up a similar plant at Alathur, Chennai. 
 
 Although the technology of converting non-recyclable plastic waste into fuel was available several years ago, the state had dragged its feet over its implementation. Construction to house the machinery at the Pernem site had been stalled at the plinth level. “With the work set to recommence after the monsoon, the infrastructure is expected to be ready by about March 2018,” the official said.
 
 
