NASHIK: Soon, the civic administration will invite suggestions and objections from the citizens for the widening of small roads, of width 6 and 7.5 metre to 9 metre.

 On February 27, the state government and the members of the Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (Credai), Nashik had taken a decision on various issues, including the widening of smaller roads across the city to 9 meter. 
 
 This was decided to reap benefits of the premium   (FSI) and transfer of development rights ( ) on the roads. Another meeting between the Nashik Municipal Corporation ( ) and Credai is scheduled for on Monday where the suggestions or objections will be sent to the government.
 
 Municipal commissioner   said, “Credai has chalked out 25 points, which will be discussed at a meeting on March 20. These points are pertaining to cupboard and the Development Control and Promotion Regulations (DCPR).” 
 
 This decision will ensure that over 3,000 housing projects across the city, which did not receive Building Completion Certificates from the municipal corporation because of the cupboard issue, will get clearances. 
 
 The state government recently published the DCPR of Nashik city, where the TDR uploading and premium FSI was not allowed on smaller roads, but was allowed on roads with a width of 9 metre and above. So, plot-owners and builders with projects on smaller roads of 6 metre and 7.5 metre expressed their disappointment as they could not avail the benefits of premium FSI and TDR. 
 
 During a recent meeting with the Credai members in Mumbai, the state government decided to convert the smaller roads into 9 metre so that plot-holders would get the premium FSI and TDR. 
 
 Citizens come first for NMC: From April 1, the civic body will launch a Citizens Facilitation Centre at six divisional offices in a bid to provide municipal services through one-window system. Apart from this, these services will also be available online. The NMC has signed an MoU with Yes Bank, which will provide the services for six months under corporate social Responsibility.
 
 
