When one thinks about the music of Bengaluru band Swarathma and Bollywood singer-composer  , one doesn’t automatically think of a seamless blend between their music. But this is what they have achieved with their maiden collaboration, and the result,  , is a track that will make you move and groove.

 The video, which is expected to be out in a couple weeks, was shot in Bengaluru recently, and sees Swarathma doing something that they don’t usually do — they are dressed head-to-toe in black. “We wanted to try something different with our look and presentation. Usually, our look is colourful, but we decided to go all black for this video. As artistes, we need to reinvent ourselves to feel fresh. Also, we are known to be earthy and wanted to look classy in this video,” says frontman  .
 
  
  
 
 Agla Savera was born around 1.5 years ago, when Swarathma, in an effort to expand their horizon, reached out to Clinton, who was also looking forward to working with more people. “Bianca (Gomes) and I have collaborated on a lot of songs and it made sense to create a pop track that would be a slight departure from what Swarathma and I are used to doing,” says Clinton. And the collaboration has managed to do justice to both their music styles. “The main thing about a collaboration is ensuring that both styles co-exist. Clinton’s sound is slightly more produced and layered, and Swarathma’s is more organic. We are poles apart and I wondered if it would work, but it has, beautifully,” adds Bianca.
 
 The Hindi pop number has been sung by Vasu, Bianca and Clinton. There is also a   rap bit by Vasu — an intentional addition by the band that likes to have some Kannada elements in all their songs. The song has a positive vibe, which is something that came about while it was being made. “The songs give us an idea of what we want to say, not the other way around. We felt very positive about this song; it’s about a fresh day, which is something to look forward to. The project itself was something that we were looking forward to, and that has translated into the song,” says Vasu, signing off.
 
