Yesterday's   tossed up one of the strangest sights in the history of the event. The Indian women's field ran so slow that the organisers lost track of the bronze winner.

 They ended up awarding Jyoti Gawte her gold and Shyamali Singh her silver, while the third-placed   had to plead and fight her case to stand beside them on the podium.
 
 The women's field was heavily depleted by the absence of the Olympic trio of  , OP Jaisha and   the former two out due to injury, while the latter is preparing for her wedding.
 
 Jyoti, who finished sixth last year in 2.54.20s, won the race with a time of 2:50:53. Last year's Indian field was about 15 minutes quicker, with Sudha Singh winning in 2.39.28s.
 
 Ladakh's Jigmet Dolma finished in 3:14:38s, around 25 minutes behind Jyoti and six behind Shyamli.
 
 But due to some confusion the organisers were giving away the medals without her.
 
 "I could not understand why they were doing that. I would have felt bad (if not given a chance to stand on the podium). I went to them and requested. Later they sorted everything out," Jigmet told Mirror.
 
 "They were giving the prizes away without Jigmet. There was some confusion. I had to go and intervene. We requested and then they allowed her on her podium," said  , owner of Rimo Expeditions, who sponsor Jigmet and her childhood friend Tsetan Dolkar.
 
 
 
 
 Nevertheless, Jigmet got her moment on the podium, a dream come true for her and her beloved Ladakh. "My family got the news that I won a medal when the heard my name on the radio. They are celebrating in Ladakh," said Jigmet, who hails from Ignou village in Leh-Ladakh.
 
 "I will return (to Leh-Ladakh) towards the end of Feb after the Thane marathon," said Jigmet, who is currently living in a rented flat in CST along with Tsetan.
 
 He childhood friend crossed the line just four seconds behind her. "She is a bit quicker. I am very happy for her (Jigmet) and I am very happy for Ladakh," said Tsetan.
 
 "Along with Jigmet, even I improved my timing by 10 minutes," she added.
 
 Their coach Savio has big expectations from the duo. "Now they know what it is to run a marathon. This was their first major race. Our next target is to get their timings to under-three hrs next year. They are young and have not peaked yet. They have only just started training and they have age on their side," said D'Souza.
 
 Jyoti, meanwhile, was disappointed that she did not `'run faster'. The fact remains that there was no one to push the Maharashtra runner and she ran most of the race in isolation, way behind the elite group and miles ahead of her Indian challengers.
 
 West Bengal's Shyamli was happy with finishing second given the fact that she had trained for only 20 days in the build-up to the race due to some personal problems.
 
 "I trained only for 15 to 20 days. I had some personal issues and was also a bit sick. My mind was disturbed."
 
