KOLKATA: The Bengal government has raised the retirement age of college and university teachers from 60 to 62, meeting halfway the demand of the state's university teachers to raise it to 65, when all   retire.

 Chief minister   announced several other concessions for college and varsity teachers at Saturday's Higher Education Convention at  , including granting of Leave Travel Concession for all government-aided college and university teachers to bring them on a par with teachers of colleges run directly by the state government. Also included in the shower of goodies were non-teaching and contractual staff.
 
 Along with the sops came one of the most unequivocal statements made in recent times to restore discipline on the state's college campuses. The CM made it clear she would not tolerate any indiscipline from either students or teachers, irrespective of their “party colour“.“We will not look at the colour: laal, holud, sabuj (red, yellow, green). Our primary concern is a culture of education. There is no need to look at political colour,“ she said.
 
 The concessions and the clear response to campus indiscipline in a state where the administration frequently takes its cues directly from the state's chief executive earned Banerjee fulsome applause from the 10,000 college and university teachers, principals and vicechancellors, a sector that has often not seen eye to eye with the Trinamool government on several issues. There was some confusion about when the benefits -the most important being the raising of retirement age -would come into effect.“The retirement age of full-time teachers in colleges and universities will be raised to 62 from 60. But the decision won't be implemented in retrospect.It is also not clear if those who are retiring on January 31 will be able to avail of the retirement-age extension benefit.The proposal has been approved in principle. It has been sent to the finance department for clearance. We will need to see from when this directive can be implemented,“ said a government official.
 
 The CM also said that all sanctioned posts lying vacant in universities and colleges will be filled up over the next six months. “Till now, we have been able to recruit 4,500 teachers and 192 college principals,“ she said. Permanent teachers of all state-run universities and government-aided colleges who have completed 10 years will be able to avail one-time Leave Travel Concession within India and one-time foreign LTC will be granted after completing 20 years in service. “The foreign LTC will have to be claimed after visiting countries like Malaysia, Hong Kong,  , Bangladesh, Cambodia, Sri Lanka, Nepal, Maldives and some other specific locations. The provision already exists for teachers in 45 government colleges. Now, the same provision will be extended to others,“ said a source.
 
 Study leave up to 12 months at a time and a total 24 months in a teaching career will be offered to full-time teachers, part-time teachers and contractual whole-time teachers for pursuing higher studies.
 
 Among other bounties, the CM said she will extend the West Bengal Health Service Scheme to university and government-aided college staff as well as all dependant family members. The Sasthya Sathi Scheme will also be extended to part-time teachers, non-tea ching staff and contractual teachers in colleges and universities. They will be given up to Rs 5 lakh for treatment of critical diseases and Rs 1.5 lakh for other diseases.
 
 After setting up 16 new universities since 2011, Banerjee announced another varsity at Bolpur. “The Biswa Bangla University at Geetanjali Township in Bolpur will be on the similar lines of Viswa-Bharati. Rabindra Bharati University will help us to set up the new varsity , which will shape up on the thoughts and teachings of Tagore,“ she said.
 
 Saturday's Higher Education Convention at Netaji Indoor Stadium saw participation from a huge section of the teaching community as well as scholars and academics. Leftbacked organisations like JUTA, All Bengal University Teachers' Association, Calcutta University Teachers' Association and WBCUTA had sent representatives to listen to the chief minister.
 
