HYDERABAD: The   turned murkier on Monday with   discovering that outlets at airports in other cities were also involved in the  . 

 Excise officials have so far arrested four customs officials posted at the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport for their role in siphoning off imported liquor from the duty-free stores.
 
 Excise sleuths found out that kingpin   was also siphoning off foreign liquor from duty-free shops in Delhi and Chennai. After apprehending Shiv Patel from another state, the sleuths raided his warehouses in Hyderabad and seized about 300 bottles of foreign liquor on Monday evening. Sources said another consignment of about 600 bottles is on its way to Hyderabad from Chennai, which might be seized on Tuesday.
 
 On May 18, prohibition and excise sleuths had arrested customs superintendent Parthi and three customs havildars posted at the city airport. The officials used to take the tickets and passports of passengers and hand them over to GMR contingency workers Sailesh and Sanjay Sharma. “The contingency workers used to scan the passport and tickets quickly at the Hyderabad duty-free shop and buy foreign liquor. Later, the officials used to smuggle the bottles out and sell them to Shiv Patel and Hari Singh,“ an excise official said.
 
 Shiv and Hari used to supply the liquor to clients for private parties, making a profit ranging between Rs 2,000 and Rs 7,000 per bottle. After the arrests, the excise sleuths raided the customs superintendent's house at Alwal and seized 14 bottles. Subsequently, Sailesh and Sanjay Sharma were also caught from the city and both turned approvers.
 
 Based on the information given by the duo, the sleuths picked up Shiv Patel. The investigators then checked his cellphone and realised that he was in regular contact with some people in Delhi and Chennai duty-free shops too.The sleuths made the accused place an order with the suppliers in Chennai and Delhi, who sent the consignments.The excise sleuths then raided two warehouses of Shiv Patel located at Jubilee Hills on Monday night and seized about 300 bottles.
 
