BENGALURU: Anand Basavani Jarli, 34, a jawan from the Corp of Engineers posted in Allahabad, UP, had to leave in a hurry on Tuesday. Anand is on his way to Godachinamalki, a small village in Belagavi, about 578km from Bengaluru. 

 However, when Anand reaches home (No. 373) late on Thursday, he’ll find it empty. His mother has fled the place and his father has been missing for five days — police allegedly picked up Basavani N Jarli, 70, for questioning, after an unreported clash between two communities broke out in the village on the day of Sankranti (January 14).
 
 Anand, who had last spoken to his father on January 12, told TOI from the train: “My mother is scared. She was beaten up and threatened, before cops took my father away. My father is also the village head.” 
 
 Not wanting to disclose his mother’s whereabouts, Anand said he didn’t know where his father was. “They (the family members) couldn’t find him at the police station, nor has he been produced before court. He is not somebody who indulges in fighting,” said Anand.
 
 An army officer whom Anand reported to told TOI over telephone from Allahabad: “Anand learnt about the situation back home and felt totally helpless. I personally called up the collector, but couldn’t get a convincing answer from him. That’s when we immediately granted Anand leave.” Quoting his mother and a few villagers, Anand said: “Police were in uniform when they picked up my father. Now they are saying something else.” The village has 557 households and 2,748 residents.
 
 Confirming the clash, Belagavi deputy commissioner (collector) N Jayaram said: “It was only a fight between two groups. When police arrived at the village, villagers beat them up too. While an army officer called me to enquire about the matter, police say they haven’t arrested any person by that name and suspect that he might have fled fearing arrest.”
 
 Police, however, couldn’t immediately confirm if anyone from the village was injured in the clash. Veerabhadraiah, deputy superintendent of police, Gokak, (Godachinamalki comes under Gokak taluk) said two constables were seriously injured in the clash. “One of them suffered a head injury, and the other has multiple injuries and also lost five teeth,” he said.
 
 Gokak Circle inspector G M Kattimani said 12 people have been arrested following the clash. “...Our personnel were attacked when we reached there and tried to apprehend the people. We are still looking for 30-odd people. However, nobody from the Basavani family is on the list or mentioned in the FIR. Why will we randomly arrest people? They are unnecessarily blaming us,” he pointed out.
 
 Kattimani said the fight first began near the Godachinamalki falls, where a group of boys was cooking and eating meat. “... The boys came near the village bus stand and attacked another group who came after them. At the bus stand, there were 40-50 people from the village, mostly belonging to a scheduled tribe. We were informed only when things went out of hand,” he said.
 
 
 
 
 Anand, however, said his mother had seen police take his father away. “They even threatened my mother to leave the house, which is why she fled. My father is with police, but we aren’t sure where and in what condition he is,” he said, adding that some villagers can also vouch for this.
 
 Jayaram said he has instructed police to find the man (Basavani). “As per the information I have, the man hasn’t been arrested. I have asked our officials to lodge a missing complaint and look for him. If our men are guilty of any wrongdoing, action will be taken against them too. I will order an independent inquiry,” said Belagavi SP Ravikanthe Gowda. 
 
 
