Jaipur: The Jaipur police on Monday claimed a major breakthrough after it busted a gang involved in allegedly extorting money from people by threatening to implicate them in molestation and rape cases. 

 According to Kuwar Rashtradeep, deputy commissioner of police (Jaipur-East), a special team was sent to Sawai Madhopur district which zeroed in on two members of the gang identified as Kanchan Meena and Ram Lal.
 
 “The sustained interrogation with the duo revealed the modus operandi of their gang. First the woman would honeytrap a man and set up a meeting with him at a secluded place on the outskirts of the city. Other members of the gang would wait in hiding for the victim to arrive,” said Rashtradeep, who led the investigation in the case.
 
 While the woman would engage the victim in some conversation, the other gang members would swoop down on the victim and harasses him. 
 
 “Three to four men would surround the victim and accuse him of molesting and harassing a woman. The gang would threaten to implicate the victim in rape and molestation charges. They also rough up the victim, and demand extortion which would be as high as Rs 1.5 lakh,” Rashtradeep told TOI.
 
 The cops have arrested Kanchan Meena and rounded up Ram Lal. “Our probe has found that gang carried about 12 such extortions in Jaipur and Sawai Madhopur. We have sent another team to apprehend other gang members who are on the run,” he added. 
 
 According to DCP, the matter came to light when one of their victims decided to file a complaint against the gang members at Kanota Police station. “He told police that on January 2, a woman called him from an unknown number. “The woman asked me to meet her near Sambhariya road on January 5. She claimed that her child was suffering from a disease and needs medical treatment,” the victim alleged in his complaint. 
 
 When the victim arrived at the agreed spot, three unidentified youths caught him, thrashed him and took him to a secluded location where they demanded an extortion of Rs 1.5 lakh.
 
 
