GURUGRAM: Work on construction of the second flyover at  , on the Jaipur-Delhi side of the expressway, is nearly complete. It is likely to be thrown open to traffic by July 25. The three-day long load testing of the flyover will start from Monday, followed by a traffic trial, which will continue for 2-3 days. The flyover is expected to ease traffic movement on the congested expressway.

 “We’ll start load testing on the second flyover at Hero Honda Chowk from Monday. Initially, we’ll put around 300 tonnes on it, with the weight increasing in the subsequent days,” said an   official, adding that after successful load testing, they will conduct a traffic trial. If everything goes well, the flyover would be opened to public by July 25.
 
 The work on installation of streetlights and painting of the flyover has begun. It is likely to take a few days. “Major construction work has been completed. The remaining work, which is minor, will be completed during load testing and traffic trial,” said the official, adding that everything will be in place in little over a week’s time.
 
 The flyover was expected to be opened by June 30, but pre-monsoon showers had forced NHAI to push back the completion date. The   side of the flyover, which was made operational in March, was used to divert traffic coming from Jaipur to the NCR, while vehicles going to Jaipur from Delhi have been using the four-lane surface-level service road. But in view of the delay of the second flyover (Jaipur-Delhi side) and waterlogging at Hero Honda Chowk during pre-monsoon rains, NHAI has allowed two-way traffic on the Delhi-Jaipur flyover, with a temporary divider.
 
 “Completion of the flyover will reduce congestion at Hero Honda Chowk. It will benefit people living on either side of the expressway,” said Sushant Yadav, residents of Sector 10A.
 
 The 1.4-km-long flyover is part of a three-layer crossing — flyover, underpass and surface roads — at Hero Honda Chowk.
 
 Construction of the underpass and flyover picked up pace after waterlogging led to   at Hero Honda Chowk in July 2016. At the time, local authorities had faced all-round criticism, following which, the district administration asked NHAI to speed up work and complete at least one side of the flyover at the earliest.
 
 In order to de-congest Hero Honda Chowk, NHAI and Haryana government had approved a three-level crossing at Hero Honda Chowk — an eight-lane flyover on the expressway, a four-lane underpass on   road, and the existing road, to be exclusively used by vehicles approaching from Delhi and want to turn towards Old Gurgaon road. There will also be slip lanes for U-turns and right turns.
 
 The construction of the project began in November 2014. It was expected to be completed by May 2017. But it slowed down due to delay in clearance of land required for the project, which was delayed by litigation and lack of coordination between departments.
 
 
