BENGALURU: The   (KIC) may have got a swanky building but it remains headless, with the government dragging its feet on appointing the Chief Information Commissioner (CIC). 

 Due to vacancies in the commission, over 36,000 appeals against information denial have been pending before KIC for years. While over 23,000 appeals are yet to be taken up for the first hearing, thousands have been dragging on for more than four years. Three posts, including that of the CIC, have been vacant for over two years and the government has not even begun the procedure to fill them.
 
 The CIC’s post fell vacant last November after the incumbent B N Narasimha Raju resigned to join central service. After inaugurating the new building — Mahithi Soudha — last week, chief minister Siddaramaiah said the government would appoint the CIC without further delay. Sources, however, said there is hectic lobbying from retired IAS and IPS officers and top bureaucrats nearing retirement for the coveted post, and the CM is under pressure to choose from among the lot.
 
 “We have received more than 170 applications; most are from retired IAS and IPS officers. It may take some more time before the CM takes a decision,” said an official from the chief minister’s office (CMO).
 
 January 24 was the last date to fill the applications. Om Prakash, who retired as director general and inspector general of police last week, is said to be among the aspirants. In-charge CIC L Krishanmurthy is also eyeing the job. A committee comprising the chief minister, law minister   and leader of opposition in the assembly Jagadish Shettar has to choose the CIC. Sources said it is likely to meet in a couple of days.
 
 Shifting to new building will take 10 days
 
 Meanwhile, preparations are on to shift KIC operations from MS Building to Mahithi Soudha. Sunil Panwar, KIC secretary, said it will take 10 days. “As far as the appointment of the new CIC is concerned, the selection committee is looking into it,” said Panwar.
 
 RTI activists, however, say the new building is inadequate to cater to KIC’s needs. “The four-storey building has seven court halls, but KIC needs at least 10. Also, the new building has no space for a record room and library,” said B H Veeresh, trustee, Mahithi Hakku Adhyana Kendra.
 
 At present, KIC is utilizing four court halls in MS Building and three at the   building. Veeresh said RTI activists are demanding that the commission retain the four court halls at MS Building.
 
 Box: RTI activists unhappy, say govt must act fast
 
 Veeresh said RTI activists are unhappy with the government favouring bureaucrats for the posts of CIC and other information commissioners. “Experts from a judicial background are needed at KIC,” said Veeresh. 
 
 The activists say the government should appoint the information commissioners with no further delay. KIC should have nine commissioners apart from the CIC. “The biggest concern is that appeals are piling up before the commission. Without the adequate number of commissioners, the pending cases will only go northward,” said Y G Muralidharan, an RTI expert.
 
