PUNE: Voting day is just a fortnight away but most political parties are yet to announce their plans for the city’s development. 

 Barring Nationalist   (NCP), no other party has published its manifesto for the civic election.   (BJP), which claims that it would carry out ward-wise development, has only come up with a draft agenda. Congress, Shiv Sena and MNS have not showcased anything yet.
 
 Most parties said they would come out with the manifesto in the next few days. Leaders across party lines claimed they were waiting for the final candidate list to be published. 
 
 The election manifesto of a political party is an important public document that gives information about the projects that the political parties intend to implement and policies that will be followed after it comes to power. The manifesto is normally released before the election campaigning starts. It helps people decide which party to vote for. 
 
 “We have been working on our agenda for the last fortnight. It will be published in the next two days. We were waiting for the end of the deadline to withdraw nominations,” city unit chief of Congress Ramesh Bagwe said.
 
 Shiv Sena has organised a programme to declare its agenda on Wednesday. “The theme will be to make Pune number one by real means. Specific projects and schemes will be given in the manifesto, which will help us achieve this goal,” Sena’s Pune unit president Vinayak Nimhan said.
 
 Hemant Sambhus, head of the city unit of MNS said, “Work for the manifesto has been carried out at different levels, including ward level, city level and elected members level. The fine-tuned version will be available in the next couple of days.”
 
 NCP had published its manifesto in the last week of December 2016. The manifesto shows the party plans to implement projects on the lines of UN’s 17 sustainable development goals and Paris agreement of COP21.
 
 BJP’s final manifesto was supposed to be out in January. “Interactions with all sections of the society has been done for our manifesto. The final version will be given at ward-level as well as city-level soon,” a BJP leader said.
 
 PCMC in same boat
 
 The parties have not released their election manifesto in Pimpri Chinchwad either.
 
 Though the manifestos haven’t been released, candidates have begun door-to-door campaigning and distributing pamphlets to introduce themselves and others in the panel.
 
 Sanjog Waghire, president of NCP’s Pimpri Chinchwad unit, told TOI, “We will release the manifesto in two to three days in the presence of leader Ajit Pawar.”
 
 Laxman Jagtap, Chinchwad BJP MLA and president of the party’s Pimpri Chinchwad unit also said their manifesto would be released in two to three days by chief minister Devendra Fadnavis.
 
 Sachin Sathe, president of Congress’ Pimpri Chinchwad unit said the manifesto would be published on February 9 or 10.
 
 (With inputs from  )
 
 
