CHENNAI: Its almost seven years since car driver Nambu alias Ramesh was picked up by   police in Madurai district for three missing bars of gold and was tortured in custody. Nambu was rushed to a distant hospital with injuries, and declared dead in May 2010. His widow and two minor children got neither justice nor  . Three police officials identified by them as offenders merrily continued in service.

 Not anymore.
 
  took exception to the indifferent attitude with which the custodial death issue was approached by top brass of Tamil Nadu government, and awarded Rs 10 lakh compensation to the victim’s family. Moreover, brushing aside protests by the government side, the court directed the government to recover the compensation amount from the three culprits – deputy superintendent of police K R Vijayabhaskaran, inspector of police R Balaji and sub-inspector M Baskaran.
 
 Justice M S Ramesh said, “I am quite disappointed with the lethargic attitude on the part of high ranking police officials in not initiating departmental proceedings against the three officers till date, inspite of specific recommendations of the investigating authority namely, the additional director-general of police, CBCID. The incident occurred way back in 2010 and even after a lapse of 7 years, it is now being submitted that the government is still in the process of initiating departmental proceedings against the three officers.”
 
 Nambu was employed with one Thangavelu, and on April 22, 2010 the latter gave him a bag containing Rs 2 lakh in cash and gold bars weighing 2kg, to be handed over to a shop in Melur, near Madurai. While travelling in bus, Nambu lost the gold bar and he brought it to the notice of his owner as well as the police. Disbelieving him, police kept him in illegal custody for a week -- from April 22 to 29 – and tortured him. He was let go for a brief while, only to be called again and thrashed in custody. His aged father, wife and two minor children were also summoned and scolded in filthy words.
 
 On May 10, 2010, he was again picked up by Melur police, who by following morning informed his family that Nambu had been rushed to a private hospital in Manapparai for treatment. He was declared dead the same day. Why he was taken to a private hospital in Manapparai, instead of rushing him to a government hospital in Madurai became a non-issue.
 
 While the revenue divisional officer gave a finding that there were contusions which might have been caused by police torture, a probe by ADGP-CBCID laid the issue bare. The officer concluded that Nambu had indeed been held in illegal custody and subjected to ‘ill-treatment’ which led to his hospitalisation and death.
 
 While his family moved the court for Rs 10 lakh as compensation, the government said the family court could move an appropriate civil court for remedy.
 
 Justice Ramesh expressed astonishment when he was informed that the ADGP’s report was pending with government, and that district administration was still awaiting government’s nod to proceed against the erring officials.
 
 Citing several apex court rulings on such issues of   and compensation package, the judge said the theory of ‘last seen with’ and ‘mutilant liability’ would prove that police were to blame for Nambu’s torture in custody and death. He said that as driver in job for several years, Nambu would have been earning at least Rs 1 lakh per annum, so the demand for Rs 10 lakh as compensation was fair.
 
