KOCHI: The prime suspect in a case pertaining to the alleged abduction and rape of a popular south Indian actor continued to play hide-and-seek with the police, giving investigators the slip once again—the second time in as many days.

 Police had almost closed in on   aka Pulsar Suni’s at his hideout in Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu, late on Wednesday, but he managed to escape, police sources said, adding that two teams were sent to nab him.
 
 “He’s on our radar, playing a game of cat-and-mouse with us,” an officer, who went to Coimbatore, said.
 
 Earlier, police had expanded search to the neighbouring state to find the suspect, who had already moved an anticipatory bail application. The high court of Kerala had posted the hearing of Suni’s bail application for March 2.
 
 Besides Suni, police were also hunting for  , presumed to be with the prime suspect.
 
 Inspector-general of police   said the suspects have been moving from one place to another.
 
 “We have questioned some people at different police stations,” he said.
 
 Police, meanwhile, found that Suni was having Rs 10,000 in cash, raised by selling a gold chain in Alappuzha.
 
 “As per Manikandan’s statement, they escaped to Coimbatore by road,” said a police officer. He was arrested on Monday, and was on Wednesday remanded in judicial custody for 14 days.
 
 Police, meanwhile, said they would record the statements of the actor’s colleagues.
 
 In a separate but related development, actor   denied having any links with the prime suspect. “I am being targeted after the formation of a new organization against those trying to destroy the film industry. I have no relation with any of the suspects in the case. No police officer had visited or contacted me over the phone,” Dileep said in a Facebook post.
 
 On Tuesday night, police had reportedly taken an unidentified person into custody from an apartment in Kakkanad in connection with the case.
 
 Investigators, however, refused to confirm or deny the information.
 
 
