BENGALURU: Trust the JD(S) to do it. For the second time in less than a decade, the party held a rally at Palace Grounds on Thursday to celebrate the inauguration of its headquarters at Seshadripuram nearby, bringing traffic to a standstill for hours on several stretches of   and adjoining areas.

 On November 17, 2008, another JD(S) rally had resulted in one of the biggest traffic jams in the city , prompting the judiciary to intervene and propose several guidelines to avoid such chaos from recurring.
 
 On Thursday , the worst hit were office-goers headed to work up to noon, while children returning home after writing their exams had to wait on roads for nearly two hours. The JD(S) rally was held from 11am to 2pm and about 100 lorries that had ferried supporters for the event were parked along the national highway from   to BDA flyover. The trucks created a ruckus while arriving and leaving.
 
 The city's slow-moving traffic, notorious for its less than 10-km-per-hour average peak-hour speed, nosedived to another low­­ an agonizing one kilometre per hour at intervals ­­ on Thursday . Pedestrians were found outpacing vehicles in and around Palace Grounds. The jams worsened around noon and traffic flow came to a stand still between 2pm and 3pm. A little later, police made all possible efforts to clear the bottleneck but could not as scores of trucks and other vehicles carrying JD(S) workers began coming out of Palace Grounds.
 
 Sharanya K, a homemaker and resident of Sanjaynagar, said she took more than 45 minutes to reach her son's school near   from her residence. On other days, it is a less than 15minute ride.
 
 Manu K, a private company employee, said he chose a different route to reach his office on MG Road from Hebbal.“On normal days, it would take 20 minutes. I had to drive five kilometres extra via RT Nagar, Nandidurg Road and Cantonment to reach office,“ he said. Santosh Kumar, who enjoys taking the   bus from his Yelahanka residence to MG Road office on other days, said he lost patience after a point. “It takes me 40 minutes to travel to my workplace every day . But on Thursday , it took us more than 1 hour and 40 minutes to cover 15 km,“ he rued.
 
