NAGPUR: A team of super speciality hospital (SSH) in   (GMCH) led by Dr  , professor and head of the   at the hospital, removed a   from the left brain of a 26-year-old patient from Balaghat. The cyst weighs about 260gm.

 The patient was suffering from convulsions, weakness of right limbs and slurry speech for over 12-15 years. In fact, the patient couldn’t walk and was bedridden when he was brought to the super speciality hospital. Had the patient not been operated for the cyst, he may not have survived for more than 1-2 months.
 
 Hospital OSD Dr Manish Shirigriwar, congratulating Dr Giri and his team, also gave credit to the state-of-art equipment like special microscopes and intra-operative sonography etc available in the hospital which helped the team in such a crucial surgery.
 
 Dr Giri later told TOI that though hydatid cysts infections are found mainly in brain (one in one lakh people), search in medical literature showed that such a huge cysts has not been extracted out from any patient so far. “I am not making any big claim. However, the surgery is apparently the only one of its kind till now merely because of its size and removal of the calcified cyst in one single piece,” said Dr Giri.
 
 The hydatid cyst was diagnosed after a CAT scan and MRI in the hospital. The cyst was pressing the left frontal lobe and parietal lobe so badly that the functions controlled by these two parts of the brain on the right side of the body were severely affected. Dr Giri said the patient was misled by doctors and relatives, calling it a polio attack.
 
 “Now the patient’s lower limb or leg has improved significantly and patient should be able to walk in a day or two. His left arm and hand has also begun to improve but the grip is still very weak. Speech of patient has also improved very well and is clear now. His drowsiness and convulsions have also gone,” Dr Giri said.
 
 In medical terms the doctor basically performed a craniotomy (in aracnoidal plane) around the huge calcified or stone-like mass so that the whole mass could be completed excised in one piece. “Spillage of the mass as pieces could have aggravated the infection in the brain and it would have been difficult to remove each piece,” said Dr Giri.
 
 The operating team included Dr Giri, Dr Vivek Agrawal, Dr Vaibhav Chauhan, Dr Sagar Sahane, Dr Mahesh Kumar and senior resident Dr Sudhendu Babhulkar. Dr Lulu Fatima Vali, Dr Abhay Ganar, Dr Rajesh Ngamote, Dr Ketki Ramteke and Dr Neha Gedam were in anaesthetists team.
 
