KANPUR: The day which began with special 'Pooja' and 'Paath' for the victory of NDA's presidential candidate   transitioned into full-fledged celebration during the evening when the result was declared. 

 Kovind's native village 'Paraukh' in Derapur Tehsil of Kanpur Dehat district witnessed massive celebration. From throwing colors to bursting firecrackers, the excited villagers did everything to express their joy on Kovind's victory. Even rains could not dampen the spirit of the villagers. They continued with their 'Naach' and 'Gaana'.
 
 Special arrangement of 'Band' and 'Baaja' had been made for the occasion. Loud music and bollywood songs were belted out through speakers to give a perfect stage to the youngsters to dance. The giant sized speakers placed atop open mini truck moved through the village lanes to let people know that it was time to celebrate. 
  
 People had gathered at Kovind's house where he and his family used to live. A few years ago this house had been converted into a community hall for the villagers to hold small functions. Villagers climbed atop the terrace of the house and clicked pictures of Paraukh which looked different today. Paraukh village, which never gathered limelight was quite noisy. People distributed sweets. They hugged and greeted one and another.
 
 Every villager had one sentence to say - 'they belong to the  's village'. 
 
 "Now that   has won the President's election, our village will witness development", said 77-year-old Udhav Singh while remembering the President-elect. 
 
 "I congratulate him on his grand victory. I remember him well. He was my junior. He was about seven years younger to me and today he has become President of India. I hope to meet him someday, if he comes to his village again", Singh said with sheen in his eyes.
 
 Like Udhav, many others spoke about their association with Kovind. 
 
 Rajkishore Singh, who was a year senior to Kovind, remained surrounded by mediamen. Amid the camera focussing on him every second, Singh said that Kovind was always a delight to talk to since he was humble and down to earth. He said that Kovind and his family never even had an arguement with anyone here in the village as they all were very decent and polite.
 
 The youngsters, meanwhile, had no stopping. They kept dancing althroughout. But all those who had either studied with Kovind or seen him from close quarters mentioned that they had never seen such a scale of celebration in their village Paraukh ever before but added that they were enjoying every bit of it.
 
