LUCKNOW:   chief   on Sunday said that all that the SP government has done for the state is to strengthen BJP’s presence in Uttar Pradesh. She went on to hit out at senior SP leader   for reportedly criticizing Muslim voters for supporting her party. She said that Khan wants the Muslim population to be like him and bow before Samajwadi Party (SP) leaders. 

 The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) supremo said that the Rampur MLA should criticise SP and not Muslims who are supporting BSP to defeat the communal forces of BJP.
 
 Claiming to have the support of Muslim voters in the ongoing assembly elections, Mayawati promised she would not let the minorities lose faith in her after the elections. “The party represents Sarv Samaj and ensures welfare of all community,” the BSP boss reiterated.
 
 Mayawati’s firm stand on her opposition to communal politics comes at a time when SP president and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Akhilesh Yadav accused her of joining hands with the BJP to defeat his party. In fact, Akhilesh’s comments came right after Mayawati had said that her party would prefer sitting in the opposition rather than getting into an alliance with BJP after the assembly elections. 
 
 On Sunday, the BSP supremo further said that she was happy to see Muslims getting out of the clutches of SP to support a party which would take care of their interests. Mayawati added that her government had always managed to weaken the BJP in UP whenever her party came to power. “Samajwadi Party has only strengthened the BJP. The two have an internal agreement,” she said and went on to add that both of these parties were responsible for the communal conflagrations in the state like the ones in Muzaffarnagar and Colonelganj (Gonda).
 
 Meanwhile, Azam Khan had said in a recent rally in Etah that BSP is only running after SP votes and will get into an alliance with the BJP once the elections are over. “It will again support BJP after assembly polls and form its government and once again tie a rakhi,” Khan had said. Mayawati had tied a ‘rakhi’ on BJP leader Lalji Tandon when the two parties got together to form government in the state.
 
