PUNE: As many as 2,750 residents of   in Wanowrie have decided not vote in the   (PMC) election on February 21.

 A decision to boycott the election in panel number 25, mayor Prashant Jagtap's ward, was taken over an unsolved dispute between the society and   (MHADA) since 2010 pertaining to possession of land ad measuring 11.5 acres on which the society stands. MHADA officials claimed that they were in  .
 
 The residents have displayed posters saying that they will not vote as political leaders have failed them even though they took it up with MHADA and state government officials.
 
 Their stance has drawn the attention of aspirants who have appealed to them to reconsider their decision and vote in their favour so that they can help them after they are elected.
 
 The society's chairman Bhaskar Bhalerao on Tuesday said, “The decision to boycott the civic election was taken by the residents on January 26 and not by the committee members. We support the residents' appeal as the state government had given given permission to MHADA to transfer the custody of our property without taking us into confidence.“
 
 He said the residents had paid the cost of the land and contributed for construction of building when the project was constructed for lower middle and middle class families by a builder on behalf of the Maharashtra Housing Corporation Limited in 1974.
 
 “On October 14, 2010, the government gave permission to MHADA to transfer our land without any authority after the housing corporation was dissolved. We came to known that MHADA had later obtained permissions from the PMC for constructing buildings on 4.5 acres reserved for a school, a playground, a garden, servants' quarters and other public amenities,“ Bhalerao added.
 
 When the illegalities were brought to the notice of the government and MHADA officials, they were asked to move court. “We met our MLA and the chief minister, but no action has been taken,“ Bhalerao added.
 
 Nandan Bhavkar, retired chief architect of the state government and secretary of the society , said since the government is not taking a call despite their complaints and MHADA is not ready to change its decision, they support the demand by a majority of the residents not to cast their votes. “We want the authorities to take cognizance of the illegalities and do us justi ce,“ Bhavkar added.
 
 Not all voters favour the boycott. Marketing professional Pravin Kamble, a resident of the society , said he did not back abstention from the democratic process. “We want re-development of the society and MHADA has invited us for a meeting, but the issue is getting delayed because the society is not meeting them.The society's land may be on lease. We don't want politicians to take advantage. The residents must change their minds and vote,“ he added.
 
 Retired electronics engineer Mushtaque Shaikh said, “Residents feel there is injustice done to them. Since a court case is pending, we should wait for the outcome. Many people who have purchased properties here in re-sale do not know the issues. Residents should vote.“
 
 Jagtap said he had met the flat owners. “The dispute over the issue of land has not been resolved because the BJP government had not taken action on the complaints made to various authorities.“
 
 Congress candidate Sahil Kedari said he had appealed to the residents to vote and assured them of a solution after the election.
 
