NASHIK: The district administration on Thursday approved government assistance for the families of six of the nine farmers who committed suicide this year, stating that they had taken the extreme step because of “ agricultural reasons”. 

 Led by district collector Radhakrishnan B, a panel went through reports and conducted inquiries into suicides by the nine farmers. The panel admitted that six of them took the extreme step because of failed crop and debt recovery notices from bankers, among other reasons, and their kin will get the government assistance of Rs 1 lakh each. 
 
 The panel rejected any government compensation to three farmers, stating that they committed suicide due to personal reasons. 
 
 Deputy resident collector Ramdas Khedkar said, “Based on reports from the cooperative department, banks, agriculture and police, the committee concluded that six of the farmers had committed suicide because of crop failure and loan recovery notices from the banks. Since the reasons were in tune with the state government norms, the district administration will forward the government help to their kin.” 
 
 The primary criteria for the government assistance is if a   has a loan and if banks were sending recovery notice to him or her. The second-most important condition if if there’s any history of failed crop or if a farmer failed to get proper prices for produce.
 
 “If there’s no instance of a bank sending any recovery notice of outstanding loan with the farmer, a case is rejected,” Khedkar said.
 
 Without naming any farmer, a senior officer present at the meeting said the kin of the deceased tillers — where there was no recovery notice — decided against taking any government help despite the difficult situation.
 
 “It was very clear that the farmer had committed suicide for some other reason as there was no recovery notice. But the family members did not go out of the way to plead for any government benefit,” the officer said.
 
 The committee also heard two suicide cases reported in 2016 and ordered a re-inquiry as the earlier reports were unclear about the reasons.
 
 The bereaved families of six farmers—Mahadu Vaje (60, Igatpuir), Ranganath Nikam (31, Kalwan), Ashok Manjre (26, Yeola) Ramrao Shelar (53, Malegaon), Saradsingh Shinde (58, Malegaon) and   (45, Baglan)—will be given the government aid of Rs 1 lakh.
 
 The kin of each of the six farmers, whose cases matched the compensation criteria, will get Rs 30,000 in cash from the government. On the other hand, Rs 70,000 will be invested in a monthly income scheme in a post office or a nationalised bank to ensure flow of money every month for the deceased farmer’s family.
 
 The district administration cited local inquiry reports and lack of recovery notices to reject the claims of three farmers. An officer said the administration will look for other avenues to assist their families. We may send proposals to the   and the chief ministers’ relief fund to see if they can get some aid,” the officer added. 
 
 In January, three farmers committed suicide, while five ended their lives in February. This month, six farmers have committed suicide so far, including two in Sinnar taluka on March 17 and March 20. The latest were two suicides in Malegaon taluka.
 
