Aurangabad: A   to the district collector has been reinstated, five years after he was removed from his position for coming in late on one day. 

 The 50-year-old driver was suspended on charges of dereliction of duty after he reported late to duty on one day. On the day the then district collector was going out to undertake some personal work.
 
 An insider said that the driver’s alleged act of reporting late for duty had disrupted the then collector’s schedule. Following the incident the collector lost his cool and suspended the driver before even ordering a departmental inquiry against him.
 
 The officer, who carried out the probe, took over four years to submit his inquiry report to the district collector. The driver was indicted in the inquiry report. The report proposed the driver’s removal from service.
 
 The proposal for stringent punishment against the driver caught the attention of the incumbent district collector Naval Kishor Ram, when the proposal reached his table for final sanction.
 
 Ram told TOI, “I was dumbstruck when I found that it took about five years to complete a probe against a driver and that too for reporting late to duty for a day.”
 
 He also expressed his surprise over the department’s inquiry report that proposed the poor man be removed from service.
 
 Taking serious cognizance of the proposal to remove him from the service, the collector decided to personally probe the matter against the driver. Accordingly, the driver was summoned and given a chance to make his case.
 
 After giving a patient hearing to the driver, Ram not only turned down the punishment proposed in the inquiry report but also reinstated him with a minor punishment of stopping his increment for one year.
 
 Sources in the revenue department said that this particular case has brought all other pending departmental inquiries to the district collector’s notice. The collector has asked his office to gather information about all pending inquiries in the district.
 
 Expressing serious concerns over the pace at which inquiries are conducted in the revenue department, the district collector said that if a departmental inquiry against a driver can take five years, one cannot even imagine how much time it would take for inquiries in key issues and sensitive cases.
 
 
