By BADRI NARAYAN

 The BJP has put in a splendid performance in these vidhan sabha elections. The party has swept to power in Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh. These verdicts also present a challenge to political analysts, who must rethink their own assumptions. They reveal many changes in ground realities, which both ruling parties and oppositions will have to contend with.
 
 First, the obvious fact that these results establish Modi’s huge influence within the BJP, one which will only become more entrenched now. Amit Shah’s power has also been boosted, for having crafted the social engineering that led to BJP’s massive success in UP. He stitched together a grand alliance of castes, by bringing in non-Jatav Scheduled Castes and non-Yadav OBCs and MBCs, who played an important role in the BJP’s victory.
 
 Modi’s winning strategy has been the reinvention of the idea of “garibi” in a new context, in this campaign. Like Indira Gandhi earlier, he has managed to achieve great success with this term, which often transcends caste, and mobilises people along class lines.
 
 For the opposition parties, these results make the challenge much harder. They will require strong alliances among themselves. They will have to identify clear, sharp issues that resonate with voters. But in the short term, it is doubtful that any other party would be able to compete with BJP. In the long-term too, the BJP’s grand alliance of castes will have an impact. There will be new alliances as various caste groups draw closer to each other.
 
 The BSP and SP will need to rethink their pitches. The BSP will need a new strategy by which it can keep its Dalit vote-bank intact, and also bring other castes to associate with its platform.
 
 The BJP government will also face big challenges after this success. It will have to take on the tough task of fulfilling the aspirations of scheduled castes, backward and extremely backward castes that have now placed their faith in it. The aspirations of these castes have increased immensely. Meanwhile, a sense of marginalisation has also increased among the higher castes. The BJP will have to find a strategy to satisfy all these constituencies.
 
 Young people have indicated their loss of faith in previous governments. Now, the new government will have to restore that faith. One immediate challenge will be to bring transparency in the granting of government jobs, and to speed up selection procedures. Many young people have voiced complaints about expensive forms. Prime Minister Modi himself had raised the issue of corruption in the UP Lok Sewa Aayog. If he can successfully eradicate some of this corruption, then he will become even more popular among the unemployed young people of UP.
  
 The BJP government will also have to fulfil the big promises it made about the law and order situation. These assembly elections in UP have again brought the muscle-men to the forefront. They will create challenges for the police, and the public will make the government remember its promises of a peaceful and lawful state.
  
 It must be remembered that Akhilesh Yadav did work towards development, but he was ultimately unsuccessful in providing a moral face to governance. Narendra Modi will have to work towards providing that moral face to the state.
 
