NEW DELHI: Almost six months after a major human trafficking racket was busted at GB Road, the   has submitted a 4,000-page chargesheet against the kingpin couple,   (45) and   (50), along with nine others.

 This is first time when Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) has been invoked against human traffickers. The couple had an unchecked run since 1999 raking in around Rs 300 crore till the Crime Branch arrested them in August last year.
 
 The chargesheet details 18 properties of the accused 18 properties of the accused persons worth Rs 246 crore. “More arrests are likely to follow as we are trying to identify others involved in the crime. We are also trying to trace more properties of the accused couple. Supplementary chargesheets will be filed soon,“ said joint commissioner (crime) Ravindra Yadav.
 
 The syndicate run by the couple is suspected to have trafficked more than 5,000 girls from Nepal and remote areas of West Bengal, Odisha, Karnataka, Assam, Andhra and other states, cops said in the chargesheet.
 
 They used to buy girls for Rs 50,000 and sell them for up to Rs 2 lakh. The younger girls commanded a higher price. Once brought to the kothas of GB Road, the girls were often confined to almirahs and tunnels and forced to entertain clients in small cubicles, police said.
 
 The others charged include Hussain's driver Ramesh and “chief manager“ Vasu.The five others arrested are Billi, Samshad, Shilpi, Mumtaz and Puja Thapa, who were the nayikas (handlers).
 
 “Saira Begum controlled the racket which was extremely organised and managed by the nayikas, paid managers, their assistants and traffickers. The unchecked inter-state movement of girls is not possible without an active organised crime syndicate behind it,“ the chargesheet said.
 
 Sources said the couple started operations from one kotha at GB Road and later built four others, besides other benami properties and shops. Begum has been arrested in seven cases since 1990 and Hussain in three. The woman was convicted for seven years in a 2001case, but returned to the trade soon after.
 
 In the last 10 years, two chargesheets have been filed against the couple. In March 2016, the couple was charged in two FIRs registered under   sections of rape, trafficking, abduction and criminal conspiracy, among others.
 
 Data from NGOs reveals that every year 60,000 Nepalese girls are brought into India for prostitution.
 
