VADODARA: Army has hit out at   and the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) for seeking land of Senapati Bhawan where it runs the Officer’s Mess opposite the main gate of   since 1949. 

 On February 2 last year, MSU had claimed possession of the land by writing a letter to Garrison Engineer (Army) Vadodara, asking it to vacate the premises after the city survey records revealed MSU’s name in the property card. Recently, after VMC approached MSU seeking 2,325 sq m of this land for road widening, the university agreed to hand over the land in exchange of equally valued land from VMC. 
 
 In a written correspondence to MSU, Army stated that the land not only belongs to it but both MSU and VMC is dealing with the entire issue with “one sided/indifferent approach”. “Under no circumstances, the land or the building there upon will be given to any central, state government authority or any private person without the sanction of ministry of defence,” the correspondence states.
 
 “MSU is no authority to give away the defence land or the building to VMC or any organisation be it state or central government agencies for city development purposes,” it further mentions. The letter clarifies that as per the defence land records held with the Defence Estate Officer, Gujarat circle, the land parcel in question is the property of Ministry of Defence, held in possession by the Indian Army since 1949. 
 
 It further states that apart from 2.21 acres land, there is more than 890 acres of defence land in Vadodara which was erstwhile State Forces land and have been handed over to the army. “The land of 2.21 acres including the building of Senapati Bhawan belongs to the Ministry of Defence and is in the charge or custody and possession of Army on behalf of the ministry,” it states, adding that its physical possession which has existed since 1949 and will continue to exist.
 
 Garrison Engineer has been regularly paying water and electricity charges for the same to VMC since 1949.The letter states that when the process of mutation of defence land was initiated in Vadodara, it had come to light that the property was erroneously entered in the name of MSU. 
 
 “In order to resolve the differences, an appeal was filed in the court of sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) in 2013. Records and documents in proof of possession by Army have been already submitted in the SDM’s court by the defence estate officer,” it states. 
 
 “Mere dichotomy in documentation with respect to property or ownership does not give any right to MSU or VMC to claim possession and grant permission for any construction or development activity in defence land without sanction of the ministry,” the letter further mentions. 
 
 
