Pune: The ministry of road transport and highways on Monday issued a notification stating that ambulances and   belonging to police, fire department, military and paramilitary forces, used during emergencies and natural calamities, can use multi-coloured beacons. However, politicians and bureaucrats are not allowed to use   from May 1 as was announced by the central government earlier.

 The government on Monday issued a notification amending Central Motor Vehicles   1989 (Rule 108), which makes exception to vehicles used for certain purposes.
 
 According to senior central government officials, vehicles used for critical operations, especially police vehicles, will be allowed to use multi-coloured beacons, while ambulances will be allowed to use blue lights.
 
 As per the notification signed by Abhay Damle, joint secretary, road transport and highways, exceptions are made to certain vehicles as they are used for critical purposes. The vehicles come under active emergency and disaster management duties and so can use multi-coloured red, blue and white beacons, like the ones used by police control room vans.
 
 ‘We had to make exception to emergency vehicles so that they can execute their duties. The same is being allowed for paramilitary vehicles. State governments will have to prepare a list of who would use the vehicles and for what purpose,’’ a senior central government official said.
 
 The notification also allows the use of amber beacons on vehicles within the premises of airports, ports, mines and project sites. Such vehicles are not allowed to go on public roads.
 
 State transport commissioner Pravin Gedam said the state government will soon come out with a list of vehicles allowed to use multi-coloured beacon lights as instructed by the central government. “Almost all IAS officers and politicians have removed the beacons on their vehicles. We will check in cases of complaints,’’ Gedam added. Special stickers for such vehicles will be issued as per the notification.
 
 Gedam said the stickers and the list will ensure that there’s no misuse. “Earlier there were requests by bureaucrats to allow the use of beacons during crisis situations, but with Monday’s notification it has been made very clear that nobody will be allowed to use beacons,” he added.
 
 
