DEHRADUN: Hopes are high among members of  ,   and   who helped the   (BJP) to resurrect on the Uttarakahnd’s political scene with a thumping majority.

 On Saturday, they flocked to parade ground here in large number from different districts to witness swearing-in ceremony of BJP chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, which took place amid much fanfare in presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, party chief Amit Shah and other party brass, with hope that the new government would practice parity in governance and ensure equitable growth of all sections.
 
 The state has more than 34 lakh women voters, and those who reside in far-off hilly areas are bearing the brunt of large-scale migration of male population to the plains in search of job opportunities, and thus, they want the new government to create job avenues and infrastructure in the hills to check the scourge of migration so that they can return to their fields and live life according to their culture and tradition.
 
 Speaking to TOI, a group of women present at the parade ground said they wanted migration to be stopped to provide them a secure and stable family life.
 
 Meenu Rautela (43), a Pauri resident who has come to witness the ceremony, said: “Who likes to be dissociated from their roots; we won’t leave our villages if we get schools and healthcare facilities in the hills. Besides, safety from anti-social elements in the hills is also an issue. The rate of crime has increased substantially in the past few years.”
 
 Dalits, who comprise nearly 18% of state voters, said they had cast their votes discarding caste consideration, as they wanted economic development of the state.
 
 Manoj Kumar, a resident of Saharanpur chow, said, “We voted for the BJP, considering it would not look down upon us and bring about inclusive growth in the state. We want to be included in the socio-economic mainstream.”
 
 In 2012, majority of Dalits had cast their votes for the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and the Congress, but they favoured the BJP in the recently-concluded assembly elections.
 
 Muslims, which are 14% of Uttarakhand’s total population, admit to have been swept away by a Modi wave. They want the new government to bring about communal harmony and economic prosperity to the hill state.
 
 Alama Ali from Hardiwar, who attended the swearing-in ceremony, said, “We voted for Modiji, because we wanted, and as he had said, to join two engines, one from the Centre and another from Uttarakhand, to ensure fast-track development of the state. Now, we want to see this turning into a reality, because it’s a matter of our livelihood.”
 
 Ali said he also promoted the BJP in Gaindi Khata area of Haridwar during elections.
 
