LUCKNOW: How do you identify an aspiring bureaucrat who could be in sync with the vision of the party in power? This can perhaps be best learnt from the preliminary examination of   ( )   that was conducted on September 24. Lakhs of aspirants found that the question paper had a strong reverberation of the   and programmes launched by the Narendra   government.

 Flagship schemes of the NDA government, including Ujwal Discom Assurance Yojana (UDAY), Heritage City Development and Augmentation Yojana (HRIDAY), Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) and Swachh Bharat Mission, featured prominently in the PCS examination paper.
 
 While the positives were highlighted to a large extent, those who set the question paper decided to keep the schemes that got criticised — demonetisation and GST implementation — out of the ambit of the exam.
 
 “Even I feel that the central government schemes have been projected quite a lot in the provincial services examination,” a member of Uttar Pradesh Public Services Commission headquartered in Allahabad told TOI on the condition of anonymity.
 
 Speaking about the question paper, Kumar, a candidate appearing for the third time for the PSC exam at Allahabad, said, “It is an attempt to glorify the government’s achivements.” Recalling exams of previous years, Kumar added that he has never seen a question paper dominated by central government programmes.
 
 The prominence of the Centre’s schemes could be seen in the question in which the candidate was asked to arrange schemes in chronological order of their launch. The options included Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana, Digital Gender Atlas for Advancing Girls’ Education, Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana and Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana.
 
 Yet another question that required candidates to list schemes in chronological order included Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana, Atal Pension Yojana and Make in India. The question on Swadesh Darshan Scheme asked aspirants development of which circuit — Heritage, Sufi, Ramayana, Coastal — was not included in the scheme.
 
 Urja Ganga Gas Pipeline Project and requirements of Startup India also got an honourable mention in a couple of questions.
 
 Asked about dedication given to the Modi government this year, UP Public Service Commission secretary Jagdish Tripathi expressed his inability to comment on the issue. He told TOI that the commission has no role in setting the examination paper and people are hired from outside for the purpose.
 
 This year, 2.46 lakh candidates appeared for about 400 vacant PCS posts for the year 2017-18. The PCS examination has 20% horizontal reservation for women candidates.
 
 
