PATNA: Cash-starved Bihar would take loans from World Bank, BRICS Bank and   to fulfil the commitments   had made to people of the state as part of his ‘Saat Nishchay’ (seven resolves) before the 2015 assembly election.
 
  The state needs around Rs 2.72 lakh crore to make roads and provide free electricity connection, tap water to every household and Rs 1,000 self-help allowance to unemployed youths in the age group of 21 to 25 years for nine months a year for two years.
  
  Speaking at a function organised by rural works department on Thursday, CM Nitish Kumar said, “We have decided to make all weather road in every village and are taking loans from World Bank and NABARD. We are also working to take loan from BRICS Bank so that there is no resource crunch for road projects.” “We are even taking off budget loan from NABARD at a higher rate of interest. We are not bothered about interest rate as the purpose is to make lives of people better in rural areas.”
  
  The CM was speaking after inaugurating 947 roads and 38 bridges constructed at a cost of Rs 1,571.65 crore by the rural works department. He also started work on another 554 roads and 42 bridges at a cost of Rs 2305.73 crore. However, the CM did not disclose the amount of loan the state has planned to take from different financial institutions.
  
  He expressed hope that rural roads will help in better marketing of farmers’ produces as it will reduce travel time and cost of transportation.
  
  Warning engineers and officers of stern action in case they are found involved in corrupt practices, the CM said, “Needs can be fulfilled, but not greed. Government is already giving good pay package and it will even increase further after implementation of recommendations of Seventh Pay Commission. Everyone should remember that no corrupt practice will be tolerated.”
  
  Without taking name, Nitish even targeted Jharkhand for organising Global Investor Summit which was inaugurated on Thursday. “I don’t feel that few factories will lead to desired development. Bihar has achieved and sustained double digit development and it is primarily because of decentralised execution of projects and development of individuals,” he said. In the last one decade, GSDP of Bihar has always remained at over 10%, the CM added.
