GURUGRAM: Residents of DLF Phase IV have complained to Haryana chief minister about the low-slung power cables in the upscale colony. They claimed the cables pose life threat to children as a school is also located in the area. 

 Their repeated complaints to power discom have fallen on deaf ears, the residents alleged. “The cables are about four to five feet above the ground and so are within reach of anyone walking on this road. All the electric wiring in DLF Phase IV are laid underground. These cables have recently been laid and have not been put underground,” said  , secretary of   (RWA) of Plot Holders, DLF Phase IV.
 
 Residents said an accident is waiting to happen in the area. “The areas that are regularly frequented by people, especially children and women, have power cables hanging. It poses a major risk to lives of many. Dust storms are common in this time of the year and it’s high time that the cables were removed,” said Rachit Arora, a local resident.
 
 Some residents also blamed unauthorised constructions for the problem. “The cables came to our notice when a tree fell due to storm a couple of weeks ago and made the wires come down even more. These were loosely tied power cables and spread all across the area. It was shocking as electric wiring in the area was done underground. These cables have been put to provide power to unauthorised properties sprouting in the area,” said  , another resident.
 
 RS Rathee of Gurgaon Citizens’ Council, said that no action has been taken by power discom DHBVN to resolve the issue, despite multiple complaints. 
 
 “Several complaints have been made to the discom to look into the issue. However, no concrete step has been taken yet. It seems that the authorities are waiting for an accident to act. We have, therefore, written to chief minister  . We can’t put lives of people at risk due to negligence of authorities,” he said.
 
 When contacted, a discom official said, “We have received complaints and inspected the area. We also tightened the wires. I don't think there should be any issue now.”
 
