NEW DELHI: The   that begins on Monday is set to discuss ways to increase the party’s political footprint across the country, primarily by propagating the various pro-poor welfare schemes of the NDA dispensation and the steps taken under Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s watch to improve the state of the economy.
 
  PM Modi’s valedictory address on Monday to around 2,000   members, including Union ministers, CMs of party-ruled states, central and state office-bearers, MPs, MLAs and others, will be the highlight of the conclave.
  
  The PM is likely to speak on how the welfare measures undertaken by his government and initiatives like   and goods and services tax have benefited the country.
  
  The National Executive, which is being held on the 100th birth anniversary of party ideologue Deendayal Upadhyaya, will see participation from more members due to BJP’s growing political footprint in various states. BJP has been holding various programmes for past one year to propagate Upadhyaya’s idea of integral humanism and the motto of serving the last man in the queue.
  
  The PM will use the occasion to emphasise how his government has worked for the well-being of the poorest of the poor. The NDA government has been on the back foot in recent weeks over “economic slowdown” and the Opposition slamming it over the issue.
  
  BJP chief   held a meeting of party central office-bearers, state unit presidents and general secretary (organisation) in states on Sunday evening to discuss various party issues and ways of reaching out to the masses through the cadre.
  
  Shah gathered first-hand feedback from many states during his 95-day ‘vistarak’ campaign by visiting various state capitals and interacting with the cadre and locals.
  
  The party high command, which is preparing the blueprint for the 2019 Lok Sabha campaign, is likely to give directions in this conclave to its National Executive for requisite course correction based on new information.
  
  The meet will also discuss and pass a resolution on the economic and political situation in the country. The conclave is crucial for the party as it is being held ahead of Gujarat and Himachal Pradesh polls. The meet is important for BJP office-bearers and National Executive members from states like MP, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh and Karnataka, which will go to polls in 2018.
  
