Obamacare survives. A seven-year Republican effort to kill America's signature healthcare law failed on the floor of the Senate after three GOP Senators revolted amid high drama in the wee hours of Friday.

 In a 2 am vote, moderate Republican Senators   of Arizona,   of Maine, and   of Alaska broke ranks to join 48 Democrats in the 100-member chamber to hand a 49-51 defeat to   and Republican Party that had made repealing Obamacare, formally the Affordable Health Care Act, a law that mandates every American to get health insurance, the centerpiece of their campaign.
 
 An incensed President Trump tweeted, "3 Republicans and 48 Democrats let the American people down. As I said from the beginning, let ObamaCare implode, then deal. Watch!" Shocked party bosses who tried their best to jettison Obamacare with compromises that resulted in what was dubbed a "skinny repeal" stood mortified.
 
 The defeat widened fissures in the ruling party , coming on the heels of other setbacks to President Trump, including Congress voting to impose sanctions on Russia in a way the   will find it hard to get around. Despite boasts to the contrary, there has not been one significant legislation the Trump flock has managed to pass in what is becoming an increasingly shambolic administration.
 
 There was also trouble inside the White House with President's new communications director   ­ dubbed The Mooch ­ deriding other Trump aides, including chief of staff Reince Preibus, in coarse and vulgar language not normally heard in official quarters.
 
 The pivotal figure in the Trump-GOP debacle was veteran, six-term Republican Senator John McCain, who came out of a hospital bed after surgery to tackle a cancerous brain tumor to kill the repeal effort. Although McCain's initial vote allowed the Senate to take up the issue for discussion, he shafted the repeal effort with a nay vote, saying it didn't go far enough to address shortcomings in Obamacare.
 
 Technicalities aside, McCain's vote was widely seen as avenging insults Trump had heaped on him over the recent months, including questioning his heroism during the Vietnam War and deriding his military credentials.
 
 Trump tried to make up for it in the run-up to the vote by calling him an "American hero", but it was too little, too late: the 80-year "lion of the Senate" who is probably serving his last term after getting elected with Trump's endorsment, ignored the overtures to emit a last roar.
 
 Joining him were two moderate female GOP Senators - Susan Collins and Lisa Murkoswski -who withstood bullying from the White House and the Republican leadership, including implicit threats of undermining their service to their states and their re-election prospects.
 
 Whether all this will embolden other party satraps and lawmakers who are chafing at Trump's pugnacious style including demeaning another party stalwart, attorney general   -remains to be seen. But some of Trump's own aides are said to be concerned at the erratic manner in which the President is going about his business.
 
