KOLKATA: Police are now poring over several lakh odd applications about immersions and proposed routes from September 30 to October 4, barring October 1, they have received statewide. Depending on the information they collate from this, they will decide deployment and security measures they need to take on October 1, when immersion coincides with  , in light of the   on Thursday.

 “Till now, no request for immersion has reached us for October 1," a senior officer said on Thursday night. But, they remain wary of fresh formal pleas being made.
 
 The CM has directed all, including senior ministers and Durga Puja organisers, to attend a meeting in Nabanna on Friday to chalk out a roadmap.
 
 Kolkata Police commissioner Rajeev Kumar had issued a notification on September 16 on traffic restrictions for the Muharram processions for the 10-day period starting September 22 and ending on October 1. The original plan details 12 major processions and multiple other smaller ones across 27 police stations in Kolkata.
 
 The HC in its order said: “It is within the competence of the State to designate a separate route both for the procession (taziya) by the Muslim community and the procession for immersion of the Durga idol on September 30, 2017 or even on October 1, 2017 if the immersion is found permissible, shall ensure that adequate protections are provided to maintain the public order or the peace and harmony." It ordered, “This court hereby directs the Director General of West Bengal Police and Commissioners of all respective Commissionerates in the State to specify a separate route for immersion of Durga idols and taziyas and shall ensure that such routes do not overlap each other."
 
 The state police, and their city counterparts, are worried in pockets of mixed population for intelligence reports forewarn trouble in some of these zones, particularly in South and North 24 Parnagas, East Midnapore, Birbhum and Malda. The state has not yet indicated whether or not it will mount a challenge on the HC's immersion order. The state advocate general Krishore Datta had prayed for a stay (of the order) which was turned down. It's learnt that the CM has been advised that moving against the order in the Supreme Court will only attempt to magnify the issue. The police top brass believes they have the wherewithal to contain any possible fallouts of the HC order pertaining to October 1.
 
