PALAKKAD: “When the bus came to its final halt in Koomankavu, the place did not seem unfamiliar to Ravi,” thus began the Legends of Khasak (Khasakinte Ithihaasam), the zeitgeisty novel which catapulted its author O V Vijayan into the literary limelight.

 Most Malayalis have never been to  , immortalized as Khasak that recollected the politics, religion and myths of the late 1960s. But as the novel’s second sentence reflects, Malayalis had seen themselves “coming to this forlorn outpost,” which is now becoming as famous as Thomas Hardy's Wessex or R K Narayanan's Malgudi.
 
 But unlike Ravi, the protagonist, a trip to Thassarak in   is not a wandering triggered by restlessness arising out of guilt and despair; it is more of a literary pilgrimage, similar to a visit to the Poet’s Corner of the Church of the Holy Trinity, Stratford-upon-Avon.
 
 There is now further reason to visit Thassarak, the legendary village that formed the backbone for the novel. Characters of the epic novel are coming to life in granite on the death anniversary of the great writer on March 30.
 
 Minister for culture and law A K Balan will unveil the 108 beautiful granite structures weighing 12 tonnes at the memorial compound from the main gate to the Arabikulam.
 
 The programme, organized by  , will also have a week-long camp from Monday of 18 artists who will create the main characters of Vijayan's epic novel. The characters will be created by six well known artists led by V K Rajan of Baroda in their six-months-long artistic penance, said T R Ajayan, secretary of O V Vijayan Memorial.
 
 The novel’s protagonist Ravi, the village beauty Maimuna, Allapicha Mullakka, Appukili, Kunjamina, Kuttadan Pusari and the virgin girl of 'Arabikulam’, the pond in front of the mosque, will all come to life through these master pieces.
 
 The famous novel was conceived during Vijayan’s stay at Thassarak for two years.
 
 Vijayan arrived at Thassarak in 1956 along with his elder sister who took up employment as a teacher in the single-teacher-school there. The novel found its genesis during this period.
 
 ‘Khasakinte Ithihasam' came out in print form in 1969. It was translated into English as ‘Legend of Khasak' by the author.
 
 Thassarak will now be converted into a village in memory of the epic based on its life and times in 1950s.
 
 “Vijayan was a versatile genius who was more known for his cartoons than his novels and short stories, mostly written in Malayalam. He endeared himself to Malayalam readers through his literary and philosophical discussions. The 1970s and '80s were dominated by Vijayan's writing or discussions on it. Perhaps, Malayalam literature can be bifurcated into ‘before Khasak' and ‘after Khasak,” said Prof P A Vasudevan, a close associate of the late writer.
 
 Secretary of the memorial Ajayan said its second phase will be taken up soon to make it an important cultural and heritage research centre.
 
