NAGPUR: The high end (HE) stents which had disappeared from the hospitals shelves after the capping of price of the stents on February 14 by the central government, are back in the city hospitals after a gap of about 7-10 days except for the bioabsorbable stents. 

 The companies that were manufacturing these stents had withdrawn them from the market as they were not sure whether they could sell them at such low a price as the capped one. But after apprehending action by the FDA and the media watch on the issue, the companies seem to have temporarily brought the stents back.
 
 Dr Prashant Jagtap, interventional cardiologist at the Wockhardt Hospital said, “When I am getting an opportunity to use high end stents for the lower middle and middle class people, why should I miss it. Initially, they had withdrawn the HE stents but 3-4 days back, I found them back on the Cath lab shelf and I used one of them. I am happy that capping would bring down the total cost of angioplasty to patients. HE stents are also essential for conducting difficult or complex angioplasties due to their thinness and manoeuvring capacity,” he said.
 
 Dr Aziz Khan, senior cardiologist told TOI that his hospital used only first two generation stents on patients for over a week before the companies sent letters promising to continue with the supply of HE stents. “It is not just the question of money. HE stents are the only option in certain patients and hence must be available as an option,” he said.
 
 Dr Vikas Bisne, interventional cardiologist, says that with capping of the price it will now be possible to put stents in multiple vessels. “For few days, we couldn’t give choice to the patients. But now the options are back and we will be able to use best stents for even those who couldn’t afford it. But bioabsorbable stents are still not available,” he said.
 
 Dr Uday Mahorkar, Dr Jaspal Arneja and Dr Mahesh Fulwani too confirmed that the HE stents were back by the companies in last 2-3 days and all expressed their happiness. “I am really happy for common man. Now he too will have access to new generation stents,” said Dr Mahorkar.
 
 Shrikant Thakre, distributor of  , said that his company had never actually withdrawn the HE stents fully. “We have kept the stents with the hospitals but we were told to prepare credit notes of the difference in amount from our earlier cost and the capped price,” he said.
 
 A source in the   said that the doctors were asking for free goods with the decreased cost of the stent. He said that company has resumed supply of both Resolute Integrity and   stents.
 
 Kishor Jamgade, a distributor for  , said that the company had resumed the supply to drug eluting stents to hospitals after a gap of about a week. 
 
 Meanwhile, the   (FDA) Joint Commissioner M Kekatpure has told the patients to call the FDA in case of any problem on toll free number 1800222365. He said, “We are keeping a vigil on all the hospitals as well as the distributors. Stern action will be taken in case of a complaint.”
 
