NAGPUR: Over 20 lakh litres of water gushed into houses and streets within 30 minutes after the main drinking water supply pipeline at elevated service reservoir (ESR), commonly known as overhead water tank, burst at Hansapuri locality on Thursday. The incident brought to fore inferior quality of work done by the Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s ( ) coupled with negligence in maintenance by private water operator Orange City Water Private Limited (OCW).

 At 9.30am on Thursday, an OCW staffer went to open valve at the ESR, that has storage capacity of 22.70 lakh litre, for releasing drinking water to some residential areas. As soon as the staffer started opening the valve, a piece of giant pipeline of 600mm diameter got burst. Water with high speed started gushing, up to height of over 10 metre. Within a span of 30 minutes, over 20 lakh litre of water stored in the tank gushed into nearby houses and streets.
 
 There was panic at NMC pre-primary school which is situated adjacent to the ESR. Fortunately, water did not enter the school as the pressure was on opposite side.
 
 BJP corporators   and Sanjay Balpande, along with citizens and activists, rushed to the spot and initiated some smart measures.
 
 “I called SNDL and ensured power supply was shut down immediately. There are electric distribution points and transformers in the locality,” Balpande said.
 
 Balpande added around 25 labourers of OCW’s petty contractors were residing below the ESR. They were saved as water pressure was on opposite side. “How could labourers be permitted to stay below ESR. It is beyond imagination,” he said.
 
 NMC executive engineer SS   felt that the water pipeline was of defective quality. “The minimum lifespan of a water pipeline is 30 years. ESR was constructed under Pench-III water supply project in around 2002,” he said. Gaikwad’s claims makes it clear that the pipeline, which was only 15 years old, was of inferior quality.
 
 Balpande added the NMC should immediately take action against OCW. “All ESRs are situated in residential areas. Regular testing of pipelines and also ESRs is must to prevent such incidents. OCW does no testing of water pipelines. Household appliances, materials and foodgrains etc are destroyed during such incidents. OCW should pay compensation to all the residents,” he said.
 
 “ESRs are must for drinking water supply but should be situated at safer places and preventive measures required to prevent from such incidents,” one of the teachers from NMC school said.
 
 Resident Monti Motghare said the situation could have been worse had the incident happened during wee hours. “Water up to waist high was filled in residences destroying all beds, sofas, foodgrains, electronic appliances. Along with loss to property, it would have been loss to lives had the incident taken place at night,” he said.
 
 Motghare added that the NMC constructed ESR in playground despite opposition from citizens. “ESR is not meant for supply water to Khadan area, Hansapuri where it is standing. ESR is meant for Boriyapura, Bangali Panja and other areas situated 1-2km away. First NMC encroached children's’ playground and now is playing with our property and lives,” he said.
 
 NMC water works consultative committee chairman Rajesh Ghodpage said the incident has left them thinking about safety of people. “ESRs are situated in residential areas. We will chalk out proper plan within a week and initiate measures to prevent from such incidents,” he said.
 
