PUNE: The   ( ) has given permission to only 33 big   in the state, officials said on Wednesday and added that the rest were illegal. 

 MPCB conducted checks in many cities, including Pune, Mumbai, Nashik and Nagpur, following the Uttar Pradesh government’s crackdown on illegal slaughterhouses.
 
 Officials said big slaughterhouses were checked for the waste disposal mechanism before they were given permission. A big slaughterhouse is one where more than ten animals are slaughtered in a day. 
 
 In Pune, according to MPCB, the big ones — two in Dehu Road and one in Kondhwa — are monitored by MPCB, while the smaller slaughterhouses are monitored and checked by corporation authorities.
 
 Senior MPCB officials told TOI that in 2014-15, the MPCB had closed 64 slaughterhouses for not adhering to the waste disposal norms. As many as 47 smaller slaughterhouses, falling under the jurisdiction of corporations, were also closed down.
 
 A circular issued on January 26, 2014, had said the state had 216 slaughterhouses. Of this, 65 were not in operation or were closed, it said. “Over the last three years, the numbers have reduced drastically. Some were shut for flouting the norms, while some were forcefully closed down due to political conflict,” sources from the department said.
 
 Permission from MPCB is needed to run a slaughterhouse under the provisions of Water (prevention and control of pollution) Act, 1974, and Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981. “Central Pollution Control Board rules classify slaughterhouses and even specify the types of solid waste and recommended methods of disposal. Officials check whether these units have this system in place and are adhering to the disposal methods,” the official added.
 
 Later in 2015, another set of rules came into place. Consent needs to be taken from the local body for carrying out slaughtering of less than 10 animals a day.
 
 “After the notification was issued in 2015, action is regularly carried out against smaller units if they do not follow norms.” a civic official said.
 
 At present, Pune has no cases of violations. Anis Ahmed Quereshi, Pune president of   ul Queresh, said that if a slaughterhouse is not following norms, action should be taken against it. 
 
