AURANGABAD: The sprawling and lush green 731 acre campus of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University ( ) is also home to over 50 bird species, including rarities such as Shaheen Falcon and winter visitor Eurasian Wryneck.

 The campus is also home to several common resident birds and offered sighting of few winter visitors such as Verditer Flycatchers, Grey Headed Canary Flycatchers, Lesser White-Throat, Blyth’s Reed Warblers, who could be on their way to north during their annual migratory journey.
 
 These and more such interesting details have been revealed through the bird count conducted on Bamu campus recently, as a part of ‘Great Backyard Bird Count’ activity.
 
 The first-of-its-kind activity on the university campus was conducted by the Environmental Research Foundation & Educational Academy (ERFEA) in collaboration with a group of students of Environmental Science Department.
 
 ERFEA founder  , said that by and large the university holds a ‘good density’ of population of birds.
 
 “Many locations, habitats within and around the university campus were covered during the survey and after compilation of the collected data, it has been noticed that the university campus supports the great diversity of birds,” he said, adding that good feeding and nesting grounds for birds was the key reason behind the university campus reporting good density of birds.
 
 Botany experts have hailed the Bamu campus as one of the richest campus across the country in terms of the wide range of tree species found in the university premises. It houses as many as 310 species of tress including the ones that offer nesting to birds. Many birds prefer Banyan, Peepal, Singapore cherry and Fig trees to build their nests.
 
 Ameya Deshpande, wildlife photographer, who was part of the bird survey, said that besides Bamu campus, nearby areas such as Aurangabad caves and   were also covered.
 
 “It is heartening to see university campus and nearby areas home to many birds and therefore conscious efforts should be taken to improve the green cover,” he said.
 
 Common resident birds like Coppersmith Barbets, Black Drongos, Green Bee-Eaters, Red-Vented Bulbuls and Laughing Doves were seen in good numbers.
 
 The campus bird count at Bamu was the sub-event of the larger Great Backyard Bird Count, which aims to document the bird life in various campuses which often contain large amount of important habitat for birds. Great Backyard Bird Count was first launched in 1998 in USA and in 2013 the event went on a global-level and bird watchers around the world now participate in this event, it was said.
 
