KOLKATA: The vexed issue of   for development projects in Bengal — which has seen clashes, long-drawn-out protests and even the fall of the formidable 34-year-old Left Front regime — may finally have a solution: corporate social responsibility ( ).

 CSR, or a corporation’s initiatives to assess and take responsibility for the company’s effects on environmental and social well-being, but often derided by critics as mere “window-dressing”, is the route that Rail Vikas Nigam Limited (RVNL), the major implementing authority of the city’s   projects, is taking to tide over land acquisition problems. The right way, say RVNL authorities, is not force but through actually changing the lives of affected land-losers.
 
 The idea is to gently facilitate the city’s biggest ongoing infrastructure development — the East-West Metro project, which promises to transform the way the average Kolkatan commutes, but which has faced several hiccups. 
 
 RVNL recently had a maj-or breakthrough, when it managed to acquire 72% of 24.48 hectares across five moujas in Joka for the Joka-BBD Bag Metro project. Gaining access to this chunk of land has also unlocked funds. The railway ministry immediately sanctioned Rs 580 crore for construction of the depot. Its next move is to acquire land for the New Garia-Airport depot.
 
 For the last seven years, RVNL has been aggressively pursuing CSR work in healthcare and education for the underprivileged. Two examples stand out: the Institute of Handicapped and Backward People (IHBP), and the Ramakrishna Math, Naora.
 
 IHBP, at Behala, near the Joka-BBD Bag route, is getting a major chunk of funds from RVNL — Rs 25 lakh per year. RVNL gives this amount to Dr M A Hasan, who rund the institute for hundreds of physically challenged children from underprivileged sections. “He has been doing a commendable job by bringing these boys back to the mainsteam,” said Rajesh Prasad, RVNL executive director and chairman of the CSR committee.
 
 “Some 15 poor boys of our area are studying at IHBP, now being run with RVNL funds. We are also offered medical facilities. So, we did not think twice about parting with our land for the Metro project,” said Gour Patra, a resident of Hanspukuria mouja in Joka, now the site for the Joka depot. The work through IHBP has earned major goodwill at Joka, Prasad agreed.
 
 The other successful CSR activity is through the Ramakrishna Math, Naora, a little distance from the New Garia-Airport route. Here, RVNL is pumping in Rs 1 crore per year to the mobile medical unit run by the math, which benefits nearly 2,000 people. Aurobindo Ghosh, who owns a fishing pond at New Garia, is one such beneficiary. “I have parted with my land for the Metro,” he said. “I also persuaded other small land-holders to part with their plots.” The unit has a doctor, paramedic, ambulance and general medicine facilities. RVNL also runs a motorcycle-borne medical service that provides all sorts of service to sick people, who may not always be able to come to the medical unit. RVNL has also been running a school for underprivileged children, a skills development centre for 300 youths and the outpatients facility of a hospital, which benefits 35,000 people through the math, and solar panels for streetlights and mobile charging points.
 
 Swami Chidrupananda, secretary of Ramakrishna Math, Naora, is also happy at RVNL’s initiatives. “RVNL has been paying us Rs 1 crore every year — half at the beginning of the year, and the other half at the middle. Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS) does the social audit and they are very happy with the progress,” he said.
 
 These CSR models have worked to well that RVNL now wants to see it these can be replicated. “We have plan to re-create some of these projects for people living around the Joka and New Garia depots,” said Prasad. “I have a plan to take some of the trained youths of Naora to re-train the youths of Joka and New Garia in skill development, and also to run a mobile dispensary.”
 
 “The goodwill of CSR work has helped tide over a lot of issues, including land acquisition. This has had such widespread impact that people parted with their land without much persuasion,” said an RVNL official.
 
 “I am convinced that each child will grow up to a healthy, educated person with proper decision-making abilities,” said Prasad, who monitors the projects on a day-to-day basis and intervenes whenever things get stuck. 
 
 “RVNL has been paying us nearly one crore of rupees every year – fifty per cent at the beginning of the year, 50 per cent at the middle. And we meticulously maintain the account. Tata Institute of Social Science (TISS) does the social audit and they are very happy with the progress,” said Swami Chidrupananda, the secretary of Ramkrishna Math, Naora.
 
