The moment Megastar Chiranjeevi's comeback film, 'KhaidiNo 150' hit the screens, there were bee lines and jam packed crowds at every single theatre and that of multiplexes. The response from audience overseas was overwhelming too, in a way that the social network sites are bombarded with reports of first day collections and images of the frenzied fans. 

 
 
 Here are a few reviews from the celebrities of Tollywood, who watched the movie and couldn't stop appreciating the team. Read on,
 
 Lakshmi Manchu shared on her official social network handle, "Just saw 
  Chiru chimpified. What a powerful msg w commercial elements. 
  as a producer made us proud, (Sic)."
 
 Music director Thaman S S expressed, "Congratulations to ram Charan bro for his maiden production 
  
  the film is live and rich 
  
 , (Sic)."
 
 Akhil Akkineni wrote, "BOSS IS BACK !!! Congratulations to the whole team of 
 . Kudos to my brother Charan and Vinay Garu for setting it up so well! (Sic)."
 
 Actor Nithiin tweeted, "BOSS is BACK!! n THERE IS NO LOOKING BACK!!congrats to my dear friend charan,vinayak garu n to the entire team of KHAIDI NO150, (Sic)."
 
 
 
 Director S S Rajamouli elaborated "Boss is Back!!! Chiranjeevi garu thanks for coming back..missed you for 10 years...Congratulations Charan on a record breaking debut as a producer..Vinay garu..kummesaaranthe..None could have handled this project better than you. Team KN150...Have a blast, (Sic)."
 
 Allu Sirish wrote, "MEGA SURGICAL STRIKE! (sic)."
 
 Sharing a picture of the movie's poster, Allu Arjun wrote on Twitter, "Ammadu! Let's do Records Kummudu! (Sic)."
 
 Director Raghavendra Rao, who worked with Chiranjeevi for a couple of blockbuster movies wrote, "'సినిమా చేసి చాలా రోజులు అయింది' అనే మాట కేవలం మాట వరసకు మాత్రమే. అదే జోరు..అదే ఊపు.. అదే గ్రేసు... జై చిరంజీవా. జగదేకవీరా. (sic)" that translates- It is only a reference that he did not act for 10 years. He is back with the same energy, charm and grace. Jai Chiranjeeva.
 
 Actor Varun Tej before the release has put up an image that read, "Congrats Charan Anna for his big step as a producer! All the Love! And to the BOSS who has not just given us good films but great memories grew up watching you and missed u on screen for about 10 years. Maku malli ma balam tirigi ochinattu undi!!! CChiru fan for life, Mega surgical strike tomorrow, (Sic)."
 
 
 
 Actor Allu Sirish tweeted, "Back to Hyd & just watched #KhaidiNo150. Charisma, grace, comedy, fights, dialog : One man show by Boss. Welcome back, Megastar! (Sic)."
 
 Actor Sai Dharam Tej tweeted, "The happiness of seeing boss again on the silver screen brought lot of memories back,thank you #Rc & #vinayak garu 🙏🏼 #KhaidiNo150. (Sic)."
 
 Actor Ram Pothineni tweeted, "This is no Mathematics.. This is History! 150 + 100 = The biggest festival ever!Wishing for the biggest blockbusters!! #KhaidiNo150 #GPSK. (Sic)."
 
 Actress Rakul Preet tweeted, "Boss is back n how 😃😃😃 loved #Khaidi150 ! #Chiranjeevi sirs magic is evergreen ! Blockbusterrrrrrr #ramcharan. (Sic)."
 
 
 
 
