Guarding our borders, fending off extremists, lending a helping hand at times of distress in the mainland, the men in Olive Green - the   ­ are a special lot remembered with gratitude.

 That their special day of remembrance, the  , has its connection with a man from Karnataka is something the state will cherish, as much it cherishes its sons joining the force even now.
 
 Today, the celebrations of the 69th Army Day will have begun with the paying of homage to the martyred soldiers at the   at India Gate, New Delhi, followed by parades and other military shows. Similar events will have happened at all headquarters and stations of the Indian Army.
 
 ' ' as KM  , born on January 28, 1900, is fondly known in Kodagu, was a man of many firsts. Among all battalions of the Rajput Regiment of Indian Army, the 17 Rajput has a unique place in history. Raised during the period of   in 1942, it was among 10 other Rajput Battalions that were raised following the outbreak of World War II between 1940 to 1943. But the 177 Rajput, as it was then known, was the only 'War Raising' battalion raised by an Indian Officer ­ Cariappa.
 
 Three years later, Kipper was awarded the Order of the British Empire (OBE), while he served as the Assistant Adjutant and Quartermaster General with the 26 Indian Division in the Arakans.
 
 Popular in the Army as the 'Barhe Chalo battalion', a motto coined by its first commanding officer to spur his troops, it was meant to convey 'get cracking on'. And Kipper's battalion continues to crack on, just as the Army does. There hasn't been an Army chief that followed who hasn't hailed Cariappa. 
 
 Former Army chief, General Dalbir Singh Suhag, who was in Madikeri, Cariappa's birthplace, in August last year, while hailing his contributions to the Army said: "I am honoured that I had the chance to meet with him several times, something, I wish younger officers also got to do."
 
 During his tenure, Suhag, in fact, went on to institute the Veteran's Day, now celebrated on January 14, every year -- this year's celebrations happened on Saturday -- to remember retired soldiers.
 
 "I couldn't think of a better day to honour all those who served this nation than this day," he had said, pointing out that the day was chosen because Cariappa had superannuated on January 14, in 1953.
 
 It also coincides with the superannuation of another great soldier, and the only other officer to be decorated with the five-star rank of Field Marshal (the highest rank otherwise given is a four-star rank),  .
 
 But Kipper, as Suhag's predecessor and now a Union minister of state, General VK Singh believes, would have had nothing to do with the Army Day celebrations other than being another officer if India's first Prime Minister   had his way.
 
 Singh, quoting from his autobiography 'Courage and Conviction', had told TOI during an earlier interview that had Nehru had his way, Field Marshal Cariappa would have never been the chief.
 
 However, that wasn't the case. Kipper didn't end his service as just another officer. As the final notes of the bugle wafted through the air, he left the Indian Army's top office with pride, and his men inspired.
 
 Army day
 
 Celebrated annually on January 15, the Army Day marks the occasion of Field Marshal (then Lieutenant General) KM Cariappa's taking over as the first Indian Commander-in-Chief of the Indian Army from Sir Francis Butcher, in 1949.
 
