To say clothes maketh a person is fine, but it’s the accessories that you pair your clothes with that maketh a person ‘interesting’! Accessories — be it your bag, shoes, jewellery or belts — have a way of creating a ‘look at me’ effect even clothes can’t achieve. Whether it’s a pair of shoulder-grazing earrings, vintage spectacles, statement lace-ups, an embellished belt or a quirky brooch – the right accessory can take your outfit from average to unforgettable in less than a minute. 

 
 
 Designer Devika Bakshi says, “Accessory choices are becoming a lot more personal and distinct.” Her advice: for an elegant look, go for dainty earrings, skinny rings, geometric shapes and anklets and layer them as you like. For a boho feel: tassles, fringes, pom poms, shells and feathers are your go-to options. “Your accessory can help you convey a story through your outfit,” she adds. 
 
 Outfit add-ons have moved beyond mere fads. And with old styles making a comeback with a few modern updates, it never goes out of style. Designer Aditi Dhar says that retro waist and belt bags have made a big comeback this year. “Accessories are like assets. Don’t hesitate to stock up on them. Also, never do away with your mom’s pretty knick-knacks. You never know when the trend may hit the runway again,” says Dhar. Here are nine trends to follow this season.
 
 "Choose accessories wisely. Let the deciding factors be your age, occasion, weather and trends. Use them to enhance your best features," says Shruti Sancheti, designer.
 
 
 
 Wide belts with a lace fastening like a corset, cinch the waist giving it an hourglass silhouette. It’s available in many styles and variations.
 
 
 
 A current favourite of fashionistas, a bracelet bag has a bracelet or a bangle in place of a regular strap and you wear the handle around your wrist. Have a few old mini bucket bags and dainty purses in your collection? Do a simple DIY and hook an oversized bangle in place of a strap to ride the trend.
 
 
 
 For a sophisticated nerdy look, try vintage frames like aviators. It adds a touch of throwback to your outfits. Wear with minimal make-up and unkempt hair to accentuate the vibe of the glasses.
 
 
 
 The choker is still going strong. And it’s now available in countless styles, designs and materials like denim, lace, satin, frayed, ribbon, etc. Make your own with charms and dangles. All you need is a glue, needle and thread. Tip: Chokers go well with prints and off-shoulders.
 
 
 
 Use interchangeable straps on your bags – to wear the same bag in multiple ways. Another striking trend is the reversible bag. Just flip the bag and voila; you have a new bag.
 
 
 
 Whatever your choice of shoe, jazz it up with glitzy beads, pearls, diamonds, charms, stones, sequins, embroidery or any other embellishment. They are fashionable, quirky and a clever way to amp up a relaxed casual look.
 
 
 
 With monograms taking the fashion world by storm, get ready to personalise your caps, bags and everything in-between. A logo, letter or motif on the front or back of an accessory makes it standout. Sport these smart baseball caps and cutesy backpacks with athleisure wardrobe essentials like joggers, jersey knit tees, sneakers.
 
 
 
 Circulating around the fashion world for quite sometime, the single oversized earring or an ear cuff is a bold, statement piece to be worn only on one ear. The magnificent nature of the earring adds an eye-catching element to your look that is gaudy, but in a good way.
 
 
 
 Art isn’t just for canvas. Go all out and sport colourful handpainted earrings or draw some artsy inspiration with innovative use of fabrics and other material, futuristic lines and graphic shapes while keeping the edgy aesthetic in mind.
 
 
 
 1. Accessorize minimally when sporting a glitzy dress.
 2. A stylish bag plus fabulous shoes equals to instant glam. 
 3. Orange, yellow and gold go well with browns and other dark colours. Gold and silver compliments white and off-white tones.
 4. Avoid too much monochrome or too much colour – balance it out.
 5. DIY is in. Knit a bib necklace, paint your sneakers, experiment with some patchwork on bags. 
 
 — Inputs by Shreyasi Pathak, designer
 
 
