 created 20 shell companies in India and at least 12 more abroad to park funds raised as loans to run the troubled  , according to   (ED) officials.

 While ED officials on Monday refused to name the companies floated abroad by Mallya to launder money as it could impact ongoing investigations, they said these entities were located in the UK, Ireland, France, the US, the UAE, and Singapore.
 
 According to ED the companies directly or indirectly owned by Mallya in India where it believes Mallya diverted a large part of Rs 6,900 crore he raised from IDBI Bank and a consortium of banks led by the State Bank of India are: M/S Ganpathy Mallya Pvt Ltd; Deccan Lakes Systems Pvt Ltd; M/S Gem Investment & Trading Co Ltd; M/S Firstart Inc; Devi Investment Pvt Ltd; M/S Kingfisher Finvest Ltd; M/S Ambitious Computech Pvt Ltd; Ace Bin Tech Software Consultancy Pvt Ltd; Medi Galaxy Pvt Ltd; M/S Kamsco Industries Ltd; M/S Pharma Trading Ltd; H Parsons Pvt Ltd; Explicit Consultancy Pvt Ltd; M/S Watson Ltd; H Parsons Pvt Ltd; SEP Grace Appstix Technologies Pvt Ltd; Vilora Consultancy Pvt Ltd; M/S Endeavour Estates Pvt Ltd; and M/S P E Data Centre Resources Pvt Ltd.
 
 While so far the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and ED have conducted separate investigations in IBDI and SBI cases, the next charge sheet to be filed against Mallya will combine the two cases and also refer to the shell companies located abroad that were used to launder money.
 
 If the two agencies manage to prove that Mallya-controlled companies in the UK too were used to launder money, it could strengthen their cases to have the former liquor baron extradited to India.
 
 Mallya's final extradition hearing is due on December 4 at the Westminster Magistrates' court in London.
 
 Mallya fled to Britain in March 2016 after non-bailable arrest warrants were issued against for defaulting on repayment of loans. He was arrested by the Scotland Yard in the UK and later released on bail. In the IDBI loan default case, Mallya has been declared a proclaimed offender.
 
 ED holds that Kingfisher Airlines was incurring losses right from its inception but Mallya kept availing of loans from an array of Indian banks. According to ED, Mallya entered into a criminal conspiracy with bank officials to wrongly project Kingfisher Airline's brand value at Rs 3,406 crore when it should have been much less and then used it to raise loans.
 
