The episode of The Kapil Shrama Show starts with Chandu ( ) coming on stage and telling the audience that today he is going to make a special tea for Sarla ( ).
 
  Bumper ( ) also comes on stage and Chandu tells her about the special tea for Sarla. Chandan tells Bumper about the benefits of that tea is Sarla will start loving him. Bumper then tells him that she is going to inform Sarla about this. Chandu hits a stick on her head and makes her unconcious.
  
  Suddenly, Kapil also comes from behind and Chandu asks him for help. Kapil takes ten thousand rupees from Chandu and they both hide Bumper behind the sofa.
  
  Meanwhile,   (Bharti) also comes and Chandu tells her that he is going to propose Sarla. She beats him with her purse and they both make the audience laugh with their comic timings.
  
  After completing their act, Kapil invites the guests for the night,   and  , who are the force behind the film, Lipstick Under My Burkha. Also making an appearance on the show is Plabita Borthakur, who is one of the leading casts of the film.
  
  While discussing about the movie, Ekta Kapoor took a dig at movies like Shaukeens where people had no issues with three old men eyeing at a hot actress whereas people have issues when women of much older age do something like that.
  
  Ekta then tells everyone that they have not made the movie to give a message. The movie is asking people about the rights and wrongs.
  
  Prakash then tells the audience that the film as already been into 11 international film festivals and is also nominated for golden globes.
  
  After sometime,   comes on stage and he makes everyone laugh with his hilarious jokes. Sarla also comes and she tells how much she loves Kapil and Kapil cracks jokes on her.
  
  After the jokes and interacting with everyone Kapil gives the chance to audience to ask questions from the Prakash and Ekta. A hindu muslim couple from the audience tell their love story to everyone.
  
  Kapil then ends the episode by taking a selfie with the guests and wishing them luck for their initiative towards such a unique concept for their upcoming movie.
