AHMEDABAD: A BCom student from  , Jyoti Maheshwari, ranked third all-India in the Chartered Accountancy final exams. The results were announced on Tuesday. The Ahmedabad centre had a 13.42% passing percentage in the CA final exams, against the all-India average of 11.57%. Jyoti, who scored 93% in both class X and XII, scored 566 out of 800 in the examination.

  Jyoti, the daughter of businessman Mukesh Maheshwari, had wanted to take the   (UPSC) exams. “However, my father counselled me, after which I was convinced about pursuing Chartered Accountancy. I was very disinterested but was determined to score well, despite my distractions and it into my passion,” said Jyoti, who ranked sixth all-India in the   (CPT) exams and eighth in the IPCC exams. She will be the first CA in her family.
 
  “Now that I have fulfilled my father’s wish and become a CA, I will begin my preparations for UPSC exams. I want to become an IAS officer,” she added.
 
 The passing percentage at the Ahmedabad centre have fallen from May 2016, when it was 15.75%. Then, the all-India average was 11.36%. The results for CPT were also announced on Tuesday. The Ahmedabad centre reported a passing percentage of 61.83%, against the national average of 46.44%. Ahmedabad had a 50.82% result in June 2016.
 
 It is after a long time that a student from Ahmedabad has ranked among the top three students in the country. Three other students — Anuja Mistry, Jinit Dhariya and Anamika Jain — also brought glory to the city by featuring in the all-India top 50.
 
 Anuja, who is from a middle-class family, ranked seven in the CA final exams. She scored 83% and 80% in her class X and XII boards respectively. “Some of the papers left me very confused. I was not even sure whether I would pass in these subjects, including the finance exams. I never expected a rank and rather prayed that I would pass,” said Anuja, who ranked 33rd in India in the final exams for the   (IPCC).
 
 “It was my father’s dream that I pursue chartered accountancy and this achievement is a matter of pride. I hope it helps me get a good job in the corporate world,” added Anuja, who is the daughter of a flooring contractor.
 
 Anamika Jain, who ranked 50th in India in the CA final exams didn’t even expect to pass. “I have never been a ranker in college or school and found the exam a little tough. I was praying all the time to just get through and never expected an all-India rank. I hope I get a well-paying job in a company,” said Anamika.
 
 Some who came up with good results in the IPCC exams expected their CA results to be better than what they achieved. Jinit bagged ranked 46th in India and expected to get better scores. “My exams went well and I expected to be among the top ten rankers. Nevertheless, I aspire to pursue an MBA from a top B-school in the country and take up a job,” said Jinit, who was a BCom gold medallist at HL College of Commerce and ranked sixth in India in IPCC.
 
