MEERUT: The lynching of a 60-year-old man in Bulandshahr that was triggered by the elopement of an inter-faith couple took a strange twist on Friday when police slapped rape charges against the youth soon after the woman "recorded her statement in court". Cops, however, refused to divulge what exactly was it that she told the local judicial magistrate.
 
  It was after the couple, a 24-year-old Muslim boy and a 19-year-old Hindu girl, disappeared from Fazalpur village of Bulandshahr on April 27 that a group of men, who police have now said belong to the  , allegedly beat  , a distant relative of the youth, to death. The men wanted to know the whereabouts of the couple, which Ahmed was unable to furnish. Three men have been arrested and charged with murder in the case even as two others, one of them the main accused called Gavinder Singh, are absconding.
  
  Superintendent of police (rural)   said, “We cannot reveal details of her statement in court. But on the basis of that, we have added IPC’s section 376 (rape) to the FIR and have sent the man to jail.”
  
  Soon after the elopement, the woman’s father had registered a complaint with police accusing the youth of kidnapping his daughter. After the murder of Ahmed snowballed into a major controversy, police launched a massive inter-state hunt to "recover" the couple, finally tracing them in Haryana's Palwal district on Wednesday and bringing them back to Bulandshahr. They had taken shelter at the house of a cousin of the youth.
  
  Talking about the "recovery" of the couple, Sharma said, “Throughout the week, special teams constituted for the purpose had been on the couple’s trail as their location kept shifting from Mathura to   to Ballabhgarh in Haryana. Eventually they were detained from a village called Hateen in Palwal district of Haryana, where a distant relative of the youth resides.”
  
  Shakeela Begum, daughter-in-law of Ahmad, said their lives had been turned upside down ever since news of the couple's elopement spread. “We were constantly abused and our children were beaten up, only because the youth was from this village,” she said.
