KOLKATA: Police want restaurateurs and pubs to monitor the amount of liquor patrons consume and then follow it up with a friendly advice against drink driving. If needed, the pubs have been asked to conduct breathalyzer tests and for those who have had too many drinks to drive, there should be a pool of spare drivers and cabs.

 At a meeting at   with 30odd restaurant and bar owners, senior police officers said this was the best way to prevent accidents from drink driving. Restaurant owners welcomed the idea, but said there were practical problems in implementing them. The meeting was presided over by additional CP (I) Vineet Goyal and attended by all divisional DCs and DC (traffic).
 
 The police `suggestions' comes less than a week after model Sonika Singh Chauhan died in a late night car crash after a night of pub-hopping with actor Vikram Chatterjee. The latter, who was at the wheel, escaped with minor injuries.
 
 While the cops insisted these were `suggestions', restaurants and bars have been given a fortnight to fall in line and implement the directives. If any restaurant or bar fail to comply , the late closing licence will be revoked. “The rules will be applicable to all bars, clubs and restaurants serving liquor throughout the city ,“ said joint CP (headquarters) Supratim Sarkar.
 
 The Hotel &   (HRAEI) has welcomed the police move. “As an industry , we believe this is an excellent initiative. If accidents can be avoided by proactive action, then we are all in its favour,“ said   president Sudesh Poddar.
 
 At the same time, he points to difficulties in implementing the proposals, particularly the one requiring use of breath analyser. “A patron may question my right to do a breath analyser test. It may lead to further complica tions. Someone may even challenge it legally„“ he said.
 
 T S Walia, president of the Federation of Hotel & Restaurant Association of India (FHRAI), the hospitality industry's national body, also pointed out it would be difficult for standalone restaurants and bars to determine, which patron was actually driving.“We have to put self-declaration cards, which patrons will have to sign declaring if they are self-driven. In case they are, they should not be allowed more than 30 ml liquor because anything above is not permissible if one drives,“ he pointed out.
 
 A senior police officer, however, said: “We understand there might be practical problems. Police have decided to support them in this cause.“
 
