LUDHIANA: Even as Punjab goes to the polls on February 4, as many as 210 convicts with serious offences, including murder, rape and drug peddling, are roaming free in the state after jumping parole. Data collected under the Right to Information (RTI) Act from major jails of the state shows that the maximum jailbirds roaming free are murder convicts, followed by drug peddlers and rape convicts.

 The seven jails for which data was collected by activist Ravi Sharma include the five main central jails of Punjab – Ludhiana, Amritsar, Kapurthala, Bathinda and Gurdaspur. Maximum security jail in Nabha and the women’s jail in Ludhiana too have convicts who have jumped parole.
 
 The list includes some convicts who have been missing for almost 30 years and can become a major embarrassment for jail authorities as the   has put additional pressure on police officials to nab absconders and  . The commission has been tracking the numbers in each police station of the state on a weekly basis, sources said.
 
 The additional pressure has come largely because of the November 27 Nabha jailbreak, in which hardened gangsters escaped along with an alleged Khalistani terrorist  . While Mintoo was arrested the next day, the gangsters are still at large.
 
 “Since most of the parole jumpers include murder and drug peddling convicts, it is a serious threat ahead of elections. Drug peddlers are worse than murder convicts as they destroy thousands of lives. I hope that the Election Commission will act tough ahead of elections and tell police to arrest them,” Sharma said.
 
 Jail authorities, meanwhile, say that they are helpless as they write to police and district administration after a convict jumps parole.
 
 “We have written to the SSPs, police stations and deputy commissioners of the respective districts about the convicts jumping parole. Police need to arrest them and send them back to jail but not many are back,” said  , Superintendent Central Jail Ludhiana. 
 
 STILL AT LARGE 
 
 Amritsar Central Jail 54
 
 Ludhiana and Kapurthala Central Jails 92
 
  34
 
 Gurdaspur Central Jail 18
 
 Maximum security jail, Nabha 10
 
 Women’s jail, Ludhiana 2
 
 --- ---
 
 MISSING FOR LONG
 
 Name Offence Parole jumped since
 
 Babu Lal Murder Oct 28, 1989
 
 Sahib Singh Murder Jun 11, 1994
 
 Hans Raj Murder Aug 13, 1994
 
 Paramjit Singh Murder Nov 17, 1994
 
 Surjeet Singh Murder Jun 26, 1996
 
 Harjeet Singh NDPS, murder Jun 15, 1999
 
 
