KOLHAPUR: Corporators on Friday came down heavily on civic officials over their failure to check   business in residential areas of the city.

 Raising the issue during the standing committee meeting, the corporators said Tarabai Park, Nagala Park, Shivaji Park and   road are among the residential areas that have been facing the hawker menace. 
 
 Nilesh Desai, corporator from Tarabai Park area, said, “Street vendors selling fast food and vegetables have come up in large numbers along bus stands and nearby residential areas. We want stern action against them.”
 
 Some corporators also raised concerns over the rising number of hawkers in the BT college area. They said that these hawkers possess two biometric cards, none of which are issued by the KMC.
 
 According to the civic body officials, out of the 8,300 hawkers in the city, only half of them have procured the biometric cards.
 
 Calling for urgent steps against the illegal vendors, the corporators said they obstruct vehicular traffic and are also hurdle for pedestrians.
 
 An official from the civic estate department said, “The hawkers’ committee will decide on the no-hawking zones. We will ask the hawkers to provide a photocopy of their biometric cards to the department. Joint action must be initiated against those without biometric cards.”
 
 A Taranani Aghadi corporator said that in the last eight months, there has been no progress in detailed project report (DPR) for constructing houses for slumdwellers .
 
 “The DPR is ready, but nothing has been done to start the project. The municipal corporations should organise a ward-wise camp to enrol the beneficiaries because most of them are not even aware of the documentation and other procedures,” he said.
 
 Other civic officials present in the meeting said there were some discrepancies in the report and that it will be submitted after corrections.
 
 “We will set up a new cell for accepting the forms to register beneficiaries under ‘Housing For All’ scheme. A new team has been formed and it will start work from Monday,” said an official.
 
