Jitender Dabas

 Last weekend, I met someone at a common friend’s place. Though I was meeting him for the first time, I already had a fairly sharp impression of him as a person. As he was a friend’s friend, I had seen a lot of his Facebook posts and come across his fairly strong views on certain topics. I knew of his keen interest in European club football and his fondness for travel. So, honestly, I was kind of looking forward to the evening.
 
 But somehow, he didn’t quite live up to the person I had pictured him to be via Facebook. I was underwhelmed. That moment, I had a very brand-like realisation about the whole thing. He felt like a brand whose ads I had liked all this while. Only, the product didn’t turn out to be that good. 
 
 Yes. His social media profile had created expectations in me pretty much the way advertising does for a brand. 
 
 Welcome to the age of personal branding through social media. But, are we all brands? As individuals, yes, we are. 
 
 A brand is a complete expression of an entity. It is differentiated, and comes with a unique proposition and promise. It stands for certain values. And always wants to create supremacy among its own category.
 
 A brand is defined as ‘the sum of all tangible and intangible impressions consumers have in their hearts and minds’. We are individual brands, and the aggregation of all the impressions that we create amongst people drive our equity amongst those who receive these impressions. 
 
 Our   is the credibility we have, the premium we command as people.
 
 But brands have to do with ‘selling’, right? That’s true, and we as individuals are often selling ourselves to people who we want to impress — from friends and partners to employers and society at large. And that emanates from a psychological need to ‘belong’ and be ‘accepted’, and the need for social esteem through recognition from others. So yes, we are selling ourselves every day.
 
 And while the idea of ‘you’ as a brand is not new, social media has propelled it to another level. Because social media has created the concept of ‘broadcasting of self’. Through Facebook timelines, Twitter pages and even WhatsApp groups, we are not talking one-on-one but, in the main, broadcasting to many people at the same time. Pretty much the way brands speak to their audiences.
 
 People are watching us, judging us and forming an impression of us. And that impression is brand ‘you’. It’s impacting how those people are going to deal with you. Therefore, it isn’t surprising that many choose to transmit only certain parts of themselves, to control and influence your impression of them. And ‘impression management’, we are taught in B-schools, is what brands do.
 
 Celebrities do it all the time. We notice   posting videos professing his views on social issues and his love for the country, on his Facebook page, while   is positioning himself through his brand of humour via his tweets. Both of them are trying to shape a ‘personal’ brand of a certain kind.
 
 So think of yourself as a brand and your Facebook and Twitter timelines as the 24x7 media channels that are broadcasting your ads.
 
 Your views, your fitness regimes, your holiday destinations, your selfies with people you are hanging out with, your weekend party plans — all these are your ads creating that brand in people’s minds called ‘you’. 
 
 Like most brands today, you are more likely to be defined by your point of view than by what you do. But brands hold a lesson. If ads overpromise, and the product doesn’t deliver, the brand will fail sooner rather than later. Over-projection will lead to depreciation in your brand value. Always.
 
 (The writer is chief strategy officer, McCann World Group)
 
 
