BHOPAL: Up in arms against shifting of Atal Bihari Hindi University to a private engineering college campus,   activists locked vice-chancellor   for almost two hours in his office on Monday. 

 As construction work in Minto Hall (Old Vidhan Sabha) -- the place from where the classes are being run-- continues apace, Hindi university will be shifted to a private engineering college. A circular was issued in this regard, recently.
 
 Protesting against the decision, the activists stormed into the cabin. Prof Chheepa took a memorandum and requested them to move out. Unwilling to oblige the VC, the ABVP activists said they won’t unless they get a written assurance from them.
 
 The ABVP workers maintained shifting of the university will be an expensive affair. “The university will have to pay Rs 10 lakh per month. Besides, the private engineering college, where the university is to shift is far off. In this situation, students will suffer,” said ABVP city secretary Shubham Sharma.
 
 After a high-voltage drama lasting two hours, activists of BJP student wing moved out. The outfit activists claimed that Prof Chheepa assured them to consider their demands. The ABVP demanded that the university should continue working from the Bhoj University campus. The university’s administrative department is being run from a couple of rooms on Bhoj university campus. 
 
 The absence of permanent infrastructure forced Hindi university to move from one building to another. The university is awaiting completion of its permanent campus for past six years. President   had laid its foundation stone in 2013. The campus is to be built on a 50-acre land on the outskirts of the state capital. 
 
 The university took space in Minto Hall to run classes. Last year, the state government had declared to convert Minto Hall into a convention centre and renovation work was also started in this regard. However, the work could not take place owing to the presence of Hindi University. The university was asked to vacate the venue to expedite work.
 
