AJMER: Four Mughal era gates which were constructed in   by Akbar almost 445 years ago for policing continue to carry out the same function with   police converting the historic structure into chowkis.

 While the open vaulted gates housed ‘shahi’ (royal) guards whenever Akbar visited Ajmer, they also served as a checkpoint to stop criminals and unwanted elements from entering the city. They were retained as chowkis even as the reins of power passed on to the Rathors, Marathas and the British. This function remains unchanged in the present times as well.
 
 Each of these arch-shaped gates - 25 to 30 meters high - were built between 1571 and 1572 by Akbar, for whom Ajmer was special because it houses Sufi saint Khwaja Moinuddin Chishti’s dargah.
 
 Big enough for an elephant to pass through, these gates were shut after sunset for all travellers during Akbar’s regime and thereafter. Rooms were constructed adjacent to the gates to house the guards. One of them,  , has three rooms constructed within the main structure which become visible only when one stands below the arch.
 
 “The innermost room was for keeping arsenal while the middle room served as a resting space. The outer room was for the guards,” said Om Sharma, a local historian.
 
 Of the four gates, Delhi Gate and Tripolia Gate are Aracheological Survey of India-protected monuments but repeated requests to the state police to vacate the same have not yielded any result. Repeated renovation and drilling in the walls pose a serious threat to all the four gates. 
 
 A police officer posted at the Delhi Gate chowki said it was virtually impossible to give in to ASI’s request because the area was communally sensitive. “It is at a strategic location. Keeping an eye on elements threatening peace is more important than restoring history,” said another police officer.
 
 Another Mughal era gate, Madar Gate, has lost its heritage look with cemented plaster replacing the stone structure several years ago.
 
 PS Sriraman, superintendent, ASI, Jodhpur circle, said it was unfortunate that the district administration was not responding to ASI’s directions to vacate the structures. “The Delhi Gate chowki is crumbling and requires immediate attention. Our plan of restoring it in its original form is ready,” he told TOI.
 
 Other open vaulted gates—Diggi Gate, Bass Gate and Usri Gate - constructed by the Marathas and the British were demolished to facilitate smooth traffic in the city as it spread.
 
 
