NAGPUR: The phrase ‘Out of sight is out of mind’ doesn’t seem to apply to yesteryear actor  . He may have quit the silver screen since a while now, but his memories are fresh in his fans’ hearts. Thus, when he was invited to attend the musical programme Kuch Sunahari Yaadein, he was cheered and mobbed by his fans.

 Biswajit, as he was popularly known, was felicitated at the hands of divisional commissioner  , at the music programme held at Vasantrao Deshpande Hall, Civil Lines, on Tuesday evening. Known for films like ‘Mere Sanam’,’ Kohra’ and ‘Bees Saal Baad,’ Biswajit made a spectacular entry onstage and waved to the audience, who waved back in enthusiasm.
 
 He addressed them saying, “I feel lucky to have come to Nagpur. Today’s day is important to me as I have been regarded as a romantic hero, and today is the day of love. I’ve been complimented about my work and fitness, but it is the love of the people that works as a tonic.” Chef   was also present on the occasion, and offered the actor a frame made by his father.
 
 Kuch Sunahari Yaadein was headlined by artistes Surabhi Dhomne, Prashant Sahare, Vivek Deshpande and Gauri Shinde. The musical treat organized jointly by Sachin Dhomne and Prashant Sahare of music organizations Heart Beats and Sur Sangam. It paid tribute to Biswajit and other yesteryear actors by playing some of their most memorable songs. A 14-piece orchestra comprising well-known musicians from Mumbai and a 15-ft LED screen at the background playing videos of the songs added to the attraction of the show. Theatre artiste Sanjay Pendse and Dr Mamta Kulkarni were the hosts of the evening.
 
 Dhomne began the programme with a rendition of the song ‘Satyam Shivam Sundaram.’ ‘Woh jab yaad aaye,’ sung by Deshpande and Dhomne, evoked a loud applause. ‘Itna na mujhse pyaar badha’, ‘Yeh raat bheegi bheegi’, ‘Pukarta chala hoon main’, ‘Kahin deep jale kahin din’, ‘Aao huzoor tumko’, ‘Dekha ek khwaab’, ‘Do lafzoon ki hai’, ‘kajra mohabbat wala’, ‘Aajkal tere mere’, ‘Gulaabi aankhen jo teri dekhi’ and ‘Aati rahengi bahaarein’ were some of the other songs. Medleys were also performed by the singers.
 
 
