PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: In its pilot attempt, the   (PCMC) is going to carry out treatment of waste water from nullahs by using  . The move is expected to reduce pollution of the rivers in the civic limits.

 Municipal commissioner   told TOI that the model project would be implemented on the nullah that drains into the Pavana river near   immersion ghat in Pimpri.
 
 D Gattuwar, executive engineer, drainage department, PCMC said, “There are many nullahs running within the city limits. All of these drain into the Pavana, Mula and Indrayani rivers.”
 
 Explaining the concept of   plants, he said, “Ideally, only the rainwater run-off should flow through the nullahs during monsoon, whereas, there should be no water flowing in the dry season. This is possible as PCMC has developed a vast network of underground and surface drainage lines across the city. However, people living in the slums and chawls carry out their daily chores of washing clothes and utensils in the open. The waste water generated through these activities enters the nearby nullahs and causes pollution of the rivers.”
 
 He added that there was a need to treat the nullah water before it merged into the river. “We are planning to set-up natural nullah treatment plants at important sites in the municipal limits.”
 
 An analysis of the water flowing through the nullah would be conducted to understand its composition. “We will then decide the varieties of plants that need to be fixed at these sites for the natural cleansing of water. The cement concrete bedding of the nullah will be removed for placing these special plants. These plants will absorb the waste from the water, grow and make the water cleaner,” said Gattuwar.
 
 “The initial cost of creating this natural water treatment plant will be more than that of the conventional sewage treatment plant (STP). But the maintenance cost will be nil as the role of electricity will be culled out. The natural treatment plants will be able to treat one to three lakh litres of waste water per day,” he added.
 
 “The groundwater will not be affected by this treatment activity. If it is found that chemicals are being released into the nullah, we will find their source and the civic environment department will take action against the defaulters,” he said. If the project is a success, the same would be replicated on all major nullahs in the civic limits.
 
