Madhu Priya, who was eliminated in the last episode, interacts with Jr. NTR about how she has learnt the art of survival in the   house. 

 When she’s asked as to who she thinks could win the show, she brings up Dhanraj’s name. She talks of how Kalpana has changed through the weeks and how Sameer is a bad housemate while Katti Karthika is a good one. 
 
 Jr. NTR plays a game with   called ‘Veeri Veeri Gummadi Pandu’ where she rates the housemates and writes down her opinion about them. While Mumait is called straight forward, Sameer is called a double-game player. Dhanraj is kind-hearted, Prince is diplomatic, Kalpana is hard to understand, Sivabalaji is good but has anger issues, Archana is sweet but not genuine and Hariteja’s mind is hard to read. It is only Katti Karthika that she believes is playing a straight game. 
 
 During the Bigg Bomb, Jr. NTR asks Madhu Priya to choose two people in the house. One will serve the other for a week, or till Bigg Boss says so. Madhu Priya chooses Archana to serve Kalpana and says, the former has to clean Kalpana’s bed as soon as she wakes up, serve her food and hand her the plate and do whatever chores the house captain (Prince) assigns to Kalpana, apart from her own.
 
 Madhu Priya is then bid adieu and Jr. NTR plays a fun game with the housemates where muted videos are played and they have to guess what the housemates on screen are talking about. This game provides some amusing moments in the episode. 
 
 The first surprise is then brought forth.   is back, not to enter into the Bigg Boss house, but to offer a few clarifications to the viewers and housemates both. He states how he was bullied on social media after he left the house and reinstates how he was mentally unprepared to stay in the house. 
 
 After Sampoo leaves, the second surprise of the episode is brought forth just for the viewers. The housemates are unaware of the surprise in the form of a wild card entry by  . Today’s episode will see the actress make an entry into the Bigg Boss house, surprising the housemates. 
 
