Noida: The Enforcement Directorate has seized assets worth Rs 600 crore held by  , director of   Pvt Ltd in connection with the multi-crore   busted in February. 

 The directorate has attached the bank balances, funds available with a payment gateway and immovable properties to the tune of Rs 599,28,15,577 owned by Mittal and the other companies incorporated by him.
 
 The Special Task Force of state police had busted the Rs 3,726 crore scam on February 2 and arrested Mittal and his two associates, Shridhar Prasad and Mahesh Dayal, for duping over 6.5 lakh people from their Sector 63 office in Noida.
 
 The accused had told investors that the company got business from a third party to increase the latter’s online hits on digital platforms. 
 
 The investors were given 25, 50, 75 and 125 URLs on their phones every day as per their subscription plans.
 
  The investors needed to get subscription and the fee ranged from Rs 5,750 to Rs 11,500, Rs 28,750 and Rs 57,500 for each IDs. 
 
 The accused amassed Rs 3,726 crore from scores of investors in the process.
 
 The fraud came to light when some people claimed that they had not got the money even after clicking the URLs. They registered an FIR at Surajpur police station on January 31 and another FIR on February 1 at Phase III police station for cheating and criminal breach of trust under sections 420 and 406 of IPC.
 
 Later the accused were arrested from their company office. The ED started investigating the case after registering a case under Prevention of   Act (PMLA). 
 
 “Anubhav Mittal had collected crores of rupees from the customers of his company through false inducements and later siphoned off the same by generating false/bogus bills/invoices with the assistance of various persons who are under scrutiny,” the ED said in a statement on Friday.
 
 This case is also being investigated by Uttar Pradesh STF, Income Tax department and the Serious Fraud Investigation Office under Union ministry of corporate affairs. Raj Kumar Mishra, DSP, STF-Noida said their team is investigating various aspects of the case. 
 
 As per the legal course, the chargesheet has to be filed within 90 days of arrest.
 
  “We are working on the case and the chargesheet will be filed on time,” he said.
 
  Mishra said that the STF team had been searching for Anubhav Mittal’s father Suneel Mittal and wife Ayushi Mittal but they are still at larhe .
 
 “Both of them are accused in the case. We are in the process of approaching the court to get a non-bailable warrant issued against them,” he said.
 
