PUNE: With just four days left for filing of   for  , political parties have adopted a ‘wait-and-watch’ policy by delaying announcement of lists of candidates.

 The move, sources claimed, will help in restricting factionalism while keeping a check on rebels. However, this approach has left the aspirants anxious who will have to manage their entire campaign in less than three weeks’ time.
 
 The civic polls are scheduled on February 21 while campaigning will end on February 19, which will leave candidates with only 20-odd days in hand for door-to-door campaign.
 
 A young aspirant from the BJP said it is high time that the party finalizes its candidates. “The door-to-door campaign is vital in civic polls. It will be the race against time if lists are not announced now. We will have to replan the entire strategy,” he said.
 
 The BJP and the   were expected to announce their first list of candidates on Sunday, however, it was postponed to Tuesday as party leaders were still in the process of deciding the candidatures at some vital panels.
 
 A senior leader from the BJP said rounds of discussions were still underway as no consensus was reached over few seats. “The lists will be out only after the seats are finalized,” he said. Meanwhile, a poll aspirant from the   said he has already started the campaign since there was no time to waste. “I just hope that I secure a ticket otherwise all my efforts will go in vain,” he said.
 
 A senior leader from the Nationalist   said the delay in announcement of lists was a “common strategy” of political parties to avoid rebellion. “The party leaders often face huge challenge from rebels. This is why candidatures are announced at the last minute,” the leader explained. 
 
 
 
 
 It is a festival-like mood in many parts of the city as poll aspirants have come out with innovating ideas to woo voters. They are dolling out gifts, including home appliances, to the voters and also offering them tours to religious spots ahead of the elections. The cultural programmes are also on the rise in localities since last two months. A resident of Shivajinagar told TOI that an aspirant recently distributed home appliances, books and gifts in his locality.
 
