When diversities coexist, they result in wonderful stories. In its principal exhibition, the upcoming third edition of  , themed around ‘identity and self’, will underscore the beauty and differences of coexistent living in a city, through artistic simulations, short films, theatre and more. 

 
 
 Luca Cerizza and Zasha Colah, the curating duo, believe that the city has inevitable relevance with the exhibition theme. They explain, “Pune’s effervescent evolution attracts workers, professionals, students, and migrants from India, East-Asia, the Middle-East and Africa. It represents an ‘arrival city’; transforming from a cultural heartland into a metropolis.” Taking cue, the exhibition will see local, Indian and international artistes presenting art forms on topics like migration, cohabitation and adaptation at 10 locations around the   Gymkhana area.
 Aptly named ‘Habit-co-Habit’, the title creates an alternate meaning. “It explores habits that are personal and how they need to sometimes be given up when sharing living conditions with others,” explains Zasha, an art historian from Mumbai. Luca, an Italian writer and art critic, adds, “The Deccan area seemed a perfect microcosm to reflect on such topics. The area represents consequent cohabitation and each venue symbolises different forms of it.”
 
 
 
  
  
 
 Choosing the locations, from Pataleshwar Caves to Z Bridge, required immense planning. Pune Biennale thrives within an urban setup and not isolated spaces devoted to art. So, public and semi-public locations were chosen in collaboration with the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). “Each venue is picked for its symbolic prevalence in the city’s fabric (history, faith, theatre, etc),” say Zasha and Luca. Next, they had to consider how to insert contemporary art in a congested urban context and create surprising encounters in order to suggest alternative ways to experience everyday spaces through a dialogue between venues and artistic interventions.
 There’s a line-up of 22 artists from India and Europe for this exhibition. “They were chosen because their work addresses the themes of the exhibition and fits in with how we would imagine artistically responding to a location,” says Luca. Of these, some are first-timers at the event while others are visiting India for the first time.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 What good is such a movement sans any local participation? Signing up with local talent, Pune Biennale will feature paintings by city artist Smita Rajmane, at the Mahatma Phule Museum. Smita says, “In 2012, my studio was located in Jambulwadi, a village. I saw the area undergoing tremendous change over four years. My work is a reaction to these changes.”
 And if art alone wasn’t enough, city-based theatre group   has penned two acts to be performed at Pataleshwar Caves and Sambhaji Park, marking the inclusion of performance art in the movement. Ravi Choudhary, from Natak Company, assures that both acts are high on local flavour. Kothrud se Deccan, a monologue of a boy riding from Kothrud to Deccan, contemplates the changing cityscape. While Poems of the City, is a compilation of poetry about Pune, penned by eminent people, including filmmaker Nagraj Manjule and poet Saleel Wagh.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 Kiran Shinde, founder-director of Pune Biennale, explains, “Whenever a relative visits,   is where we take them. It is one of the earliest, most well-designed roads. In fact, The idea of ‘habit-co-habit’ came from the many heritage lodges on JM Road, where people still coexist in harmony.” 
 JM Road is also one of the stray few streets having everything, right from an archeological site (Pataleshwar caves) and a temple (Jangli Maharaj temple) to a printing press (PMC printing press), a park (Sambhaji Park), an underpass and a bridge that runs along the river (Z Bridge). The idea is to bring art into these spaces and leave a lasting impression.
 
 
 
 1) U-ra-mi-li: A documentary project portraying the socio-economic situation of Mutha river bed, by a Chennai filmmaker duo @Mahatma Phule Museum
 2) Kothrud se Deccan: A monologue by Natak Company @ Pataleshwar caves
 3) Poems of the City: A theatrical play of poems by Natak Company @ Sambhaji Park
 4) Social sculpture: Creation of a small amphitheatre around a tree, symbolising ‘protecting a tree’, and bringing communities together to witnesses performances, by Italian artist Massimo Bartolini @ Sambhaji Park
 5) Kolossal: A performance by Marcello Maloberti, using a mechanical crane, palm tree and brass band @ Z Bridge
 
 
