KOLKATA: The   (AAI) decision to slash the height of the proposed air traffic control tower at   by half has demoralised controllers who had been anticipating an iconic tower that would have been a pride of not just the aviation community, but the entire nation.

 Initially proposed at 86 metre in 2008, taller than the one at Mumbai airport that stands at 83.8 metre but shorter than the 102-metre tower in Delhi, AAI had revised the tower height to 112 metre and put it on the cover of its inhouse magazine ‘Airports India’ dated February 2016. Both Delhi and Mumbai are privately operated airports. 
 
 However, when the tender was invited for the construction of the   and technical block at Kolkata airport in January, the height mentioned was pared down to half. “A new ATC tower of 57 metre has been proposed and the tender process has been initiated. The tower height had to be reduced on technical ground,” AAI regional executive director Sanjay Jain said. The ATC tower of Edinburg in the UK is also 57 metre.
 
 The decision has dismayed controllers, not just in Kolkata but elsewhere in India as well. On February 15, the ATC Guild (India) submitted a feasibility report for the tower to be revised to 112 metre, pointing out that it was very much possible to stick to the original plan without causing any safety hazard. It has also outlined concerns that the new stunted tower will become obsolete in a few years with the second phase of terminal expansion at Kolkata airport.
 
 “It is technically possible to construct a 112-metre tower in Kolkata. The constraint cited is also applicable for Delhi and Mumbai where towers of 101.8 metre and 83.8 metre have been built. In Kolkata, the obstruction clearance altitude that is currently 400 feet, or 134 metre, will have to be increased to 620 ft, or 189 metre, for planes that use Omnidirection Range (VOR) navigational aid due to the proximity of the site to the runway. This will only require new procedures that keep the 112 metre tower clear of primary areas and installing of another low power VOR like Delhi airport,” said  , regional secretary of ATS Guild (India).
 
 In fact, the technical presentation made by ATC Guild shows that the distance of tower from navigational aids is greater for Kolkata than Delhi or Mumbai. Guild officials further argue that if antenna is mounted on a taller tower, it will increase VHF coverage and result in operational efficiency and safety.
 
 What controllers are most concerned about is that if a stunted tower is created, most of the parking bays will not be visible from it and will compromise safety. “The control of air traffic movements in the control tower is mostly visual. When the terminal building is expanded, visiblity will reduce further and make the Rs 248crore project obsolete,” ATC Guild (India) general secretary Manoj Sinha pointed out.
 
 The existing tower and technical block in Kolkata was constructed 45 years ago. Since then, three towers have come up in Delhi as well as Mumbai and two in Chennai, Hyderabad and Bengaluru.
 
