LUCKNOW: Blaming   as the main cause of UP's  , Union   Arun Jaitley said that the state has been unable to draw large chunks of investments in last 20-25 years due to lack of pursuance of development agenda. He was recently in Lucknow to address a large gathering of UP's traders, industrial bodies and entrepreneurs, organised by MSME's prominent network- Laghu Udyog Bharti. 

 He said, "In contrast to states like Gujarat and Maharashtra which have focused on promoting businesses and manufacturing plants, UP has confined its political agenda only around caste equations and preferred community which is why it has not been able to focus on infrastructure and industrial development, mandatory for economic progress." 
 
 Laghu Udyog Bharti's UP in-charge argued that as per date released by DIPP (  policy and promotion) in period January-December 2015, UP received only about 3.7% of total investments proposed in India despite being country's largest state while states like Gujarat, Maharashtra and even Chhattisgarh were earmarked over 15-20% investments. 
 
 Jaitley replied that the states which have development agenda always come for approval of manufacturing plants, units and lands etc while UP didn't show such initiative. "We can't attract big investors till the time we make UP a business friendly state. Investors look for ease of doing business to start up a plant which includes his safety, check on corruption and red-tapism, single window clearance of files and faster approval for lands etc. Unless UP government ensures all these, we can't blame it for lack of investments", he said. 
 
 He said that people's aspirations in state has touched such a low that even leaders here boast after building a road, which is a basic ned for every society. "The roads are projected as luxury while it's' a need. To give industries a boost, BJP targeted to build 30 km of highway per day to be able to develop about 10,000 kms of highway every year. We have already reached the target of 22 kms per day." He said that BJP is also promoting development of airports on PPP model to be able to give convenient rides to maximum people. UP just has 2 airports while it should have at least 12 airports to encourage investors to come, he added. 
 
 
