NEW DELHI: Delhi deputy chief minister   on Sunday rejected the doubts of opposition parties on the feasibility of AAP’s plans to waive house taxes and also wave dues of all defaulters after the party wins upcoming municipal elections in Delhi.

 "It’s a carefully thought out decision by AAP. CM   has made an informed announcement and we will do it after winning the municipal elections," Sisodia said.
 
 Sisodia said the opposition parties have given a strange reaction to our announcement about house tax like they did to our announcement to slash the electricity bill by half and reduce water bill during assembly election (2015). "We delivered on our promise to slash electricity bill by half, over 12.5 lakh households are supplied water for free," he said.
 
 Congress, BJP and experts have cast doubts on the possibility of the success of AAP’s plans. They said that the corporations are in extremely bad financial health. Apart from the  , none of the two other corporations (East and North) are able to pay salaries to their employees due to cash crunch. The corporations get around 30% revenue from house tax.
 
 "During assembly elections Congress rejected our announcement citing a high court verdict and said it was not possible to reduce power tariff by half. They said free water will make Delhi Jal Board bankrupt but DJB has made additional revenue of Rs. 178 crore after the scheme," he said.
 
 "In connivance with power companies Congress was against the reduction of power tariff. We found there was no such court verdict when we came to power in Delhi," Sisodia said.
 
 He alleged that BJP has established a racket of corrupt agents who extort money from people in the name of assessment and collection of house tax in MCDs in last 10 years that it has been ruling the civic bodies and want to protect them because our decision to waive the house tax will be a death blow to these agents.
 
 In response to experts’ and BJP’s views that the cash-strapped corporations will be in financial ruins after the house tax is waived, Sisodia said similar predications were made about Delhi Jal Board when we decided to give free water (during assembly elections).
 
 Sisodia claimed that the need to go to parliament for amending the   was a false propaganda being spread by vested interests. "Post 1993 all amendments to the DMC Act have been carried out in the assembly. In 2003 the provision of house tax rate was reduced to 6% from 10% with an amendment in the assembly. No one went to parliament for this. Several amendments were made in 2011 without going to parliament," he said adding that AAP will do it after coming to power in the MCDs.
 
