HYDERABAD: As the heavens opened up, city roads turned into rivers on manic Monday. The city recorded 6.76cm rainfall (up to 8.30pm), which caused waterlogging at perennial hotspots, traffic snarls and power outages.

 Terming it an emergency situation, chief minister   has requested citizens “not to step out unless it is very important".He spoke to Hyderabad police commissioner M Mahendar Reddy and   commissioner B   over telephone and directed them to deploy all resources at their disposal to 
  . He said the city received “unprecedented rain“ in a span of a few hours. He ordered officials to restore power supply, clear traffic, clogged nalas and relocate people from low-lying areas. During the 
  unleashed by the rains, GHMC officials struggled to clear water-logged areas. According to GHMC officials, water stagnation was cleared at Madinaguda, Hafeezpet flyover and Vivekananda Nagar.
 
 According to GHMC Disaster Cell superintending engineer Mohan Singh, at Karwan, Ahmed Nagar, First lancer water entered into houses. Water was overflowing at   culvert too. Incidents of tree fall were reported from Miyapur. Due to the rain, roads were damaged in most parts of the city.   MP Asaddudin Owaisi tweeted that MIM corporator rescued a 10-member family at Kishnabagh police outpost with the help of police.
 
 Due to the sudden downpour, cab fares hit the roof. “The @UberINSupport why during rain your fair (fare) has increased over 300 percent in Hyderabad,“ tweeted Naseer Giyas with a picture showing the cab service charging above Rs 400 for a six-minute ride.
 
 The deluge also led to power failure in areas such as Saifabad, Begum Bazaar, Asmanghad, Sainikpuri, Saroornagar, Rajendranagar, Venkatramana Colony. Subsequently, the Southern Power Distribution Company Ltd deployed breakdown teams to restore power supply .
 
 “The power supply was snapped at 4 pm when it started drizzling. Within no time, the intensity of rain increased and we were left in the dark,“  , a resident of Dabeerpura, where supply was restored only after 8pm, said.
 
