If you’re a music buff, you are probably aware that the legendary Paul McCartney of   can play over 40 instruments. Closer home, apart from a few established names like musicians Raghav Sachar and Tajdar Junaid, there are many budding artistes who have mastered the art of playing multiple instruments. From the good ol’ guitar to the lesser-heard glockenspiel, these multi-instrumentalists are wowing listeners with their expertise in various musical instruments... 

 
 Though these musicians also perform alongside bands, some of them are known to single-handedly put up a performance as well.  , who often holds street shows at popular city hangouts like Carter Road and Bandstand, is one such multi-instrumentalist. Known as the ‘one-man band’, he says, “I can play almost 45 instruments. In fact, I balance 13 of them, including snare drums, hi-hat cymbals and kazoo simultaneously. I strap multiple instruments on my body so that I can play them in sync.”   is another musician who has a strong hold on various folk instruments. “At my solo gigs, I use ghatam, flute and harmonica. When I play with a band, I usually don’t use too many folk instruments. But while performing solo, it gives me the freedom to use them. I play close to 20 folk instruments and the list is only getting longer,” he shares.
 
 
 
 While most of them can play popular instruments like the guitar, keyboard, drums, cymbals and flute, some of them also play unconventional ones. These include the kazoo, glockenspiel, melodica, blues harp, ukulele and even folk instruments like the didgeridoo among others.
 Neil Gomes, a natural at learning unique instruments, shares, “I’ve learned exotic instruments like the cajon, viola, accordion, bongo, clarinet and cello. I used to be a substitute in my school band. So, depending on the composition, I would either be a guitarist or would be on the keys. This way, I ended up learning a lot of instruments, and that’s got me recognition as a multi-instrumentalist.” Gladson adds, “From the tambourine to the ghunghroo, I have mastered them all. As a child, I started off with the basic, like toy keyboard and flute. Eventually, I graduated to the exotic variety.”
 
 
 There is no dearth of talent in the city, and being multi-instrumentalists gives musicians an edge over their peers. Apart from landing more gigs, playing multiple instruments has helped them evolve as artistes.  , a music composer-beatboxer who can play melodica, saxophone, guitar, flute and piano, admits his approach towards music has changed since he stared playing more instruments. “As a kid, I believed music would disturb silence and so, I used to turn off the music player whenever my mother switched it on. But after I learnt several instruments, I have more insight on music. This has helped me in my compositions as well as in understanding the nitty-gritties of production.”
 
 
