NAGPUR: The Maharashtra State Bureau of  , popularly referred as  , asked subject expert panel to explore on inclusion names of genitalia in   of first or second standard.

 The poser came while referring to 25-page report proposing changes to be made in the schoolbooks of first and second standards to make children competent enough to identify child sexual abuse (CSA) and report it to a trustworthy adult if they became victim.
 
 Drafted by second year MBBS students of   (MGIMS) at Sewagram in Wardha, the report was already submitted to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Human Resources Development minister   and state education minister Vinod Tawde.
 
 It specifically mentioned that by the end of second class, students should be able to use proper names of body parts, including male and female genital organs. It would help to control the child sexual abuse cases, according to Dr  , professor and in-charge of Clinical Forensic Medicine Unit at MGIMS, who guided the students in preparation of report.
 
 According to him, the textbooks for first and second standards had a topic on “our body parts” where everything is mentioned except genital organs. Additionally, these books didn’t mention anything about child sexual abuse.
 
 “Due to such secrecy, children develop a tendency to think that their queries about private organs would land them in trouble. It leads to snapping of communication between students and teachers/parents, thus reinforcing the culture of secrecy and silence. As a result, the perpetrators of sexual abuse cases often escape from the clutches of law,” Khandekar said.
 
 He said that children must be taught the correct terms for private body parts which would help them have ownership over their body, and promotes positive body image, self-confidence, and parent-teacher child communication. “The move would discourage perpetrators and in the case of abuse, help children and adults to easily identify the accused through forensic interview process. It will make kids more comfortable talking about issues of sexual abuse that may arise. It’s an important step for preventing sexual crimes,” he said.
 
 He added that if youth grow up with a deeper understanding of bodily autonomy and consent, they will be more likely to speak up when they feel that consent has been violated — and perhaps less likely to violate someone else’s consent.
 
