NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court asked the Centre to explain by April 11 whether it would give citizens who could not meet the December 31 deadline to deposit scrapped Rs 1,000 and Rs 500 notes due to genuine difficulty another window to do so, given that PM Narendra Modi had promised so in his November 8 speech. 

 Many petitioners lined up before the apex court and explained their genuine difficulty in meeting the December 31 and mentioned the Prime Minister's promise that scrapped currency would be accepted by the RBI from December 31 till March 31. 
 
 A bench of Chief Justice   and Justices D Y Chandrachud and Sanjay Kishan Kaul told the Centre, "You must understand that these people are in dire straits. If they cannot establish the genuineness of the delay in depositing scrapped currency, they would be liable for prosecution.
 
 "The PM's speech as well as the notification that followed immediately after had promised to provide a window to people in such difficulty. But the ordinance did not provide any window except for NRIs and those Indians who were travelling abroad at that time. These people hoped that they will get another chance but the ordinance issued on the last day of deadline on December 31 suddenly closed that window. Everyone heard the PM and believed that PM's words cannot be taken back." 
 
 The bench sought an explanation from attorney general Mukul Rohatgi who said, "If the PM says something and the law (ordinance) says something else, then the law will prevail. The notification has been replaced by the ordinance. Parliament gave the government the discretion whether or not to open a window for citizens after December 31. The government decided not to. Today, we are faced with a law. Neither the PM nor the RBI has discretion to give any more windows because it found largescale abuse by many including petrol pump owners who deposited money only in Rs 1,000 and Rs 500 notes." 
 
 The bench said, "You argue as if whatever you do is final. That is unacceptable." It wondered whether the sudden closure of the promised window had something to do with the expected outcome of demonetisation going awry. "The demonetisation exercise was for a purpose. Was that purpose lost?" it asked. 
 
 The bench did not elaborate on this but issued notices to the Union government and the RBI to explain whether they were contemplating giving citizens, who could explain their failure to deposit scrapped currency by December 31, another chance to do so.
 
 "If the government decides to exercise its discretion not to do so, then it must explain its position," the bench said. It refused to pass any interim order protecting petitioners from possible prosecution for holding demonetised currency notes.
 
 Among the petitioners was a woman who gave birth on November 4 and was discharged from hospital on January 24. The AG said if the petitioners withdrew their pleas, he would promise that there would be no prosecution. But the petitioner's counsel said if the PM's promise had no value, what use was the AG's promise. 
 
 
 
