NASHIK: The city police have decided to spread their net of investigations in the illegal   case and are looking closely at medical practitioners who had helped the arrested  , Baliram Shinde, in performing   and termination of pregnancies in the past. 

 Police officials on Wednesday said investigations will now concentrate on identifying   and anaesthetists who were helping Shinde in the illegal abortions despite knowing that Shinde was a homeopath.
 
 The officials said they would prepare a list of such medical practitioners and interrogate them on the issue. If needed, stringent action would also be taken against them, an official said.
 
 “What is really baffling is that the hospital that Shinde ran in the Mumbai Naka area was unregistered. Our feedback is that some doctors and anaesthetists had been visiting the hospital to help Shinde carry out illegal activities” said a police official. 
 
 Shinde was arrested recently for illegally terminating the pregnancy of a 29-year-old woman at his hospital without administering her anaesthesia. She escaped death following the timely intervention of a surgeon. 
 
 A team from the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) found the 29-year-old woman admitted to Shinde’s hospital and registered a complaint. The woman was allegedly coerced by the doctor to undergo an abortion, police said.
 
 The abortion was conducted in such a crude manner that the victim’s uterus got perforated and she bled profusely. The damage done has been irreversible.
 
 Though a trained surgeon treated the woman immediately, he understood that it was a case of illegal termination of pregnancy and gave a statement to the civic team and the police. The doctor also got the woman shifted to his hospital for further treatment.
 
 According to official sources, both NMC and the police are also seriously contemplating to take steps to see to it that Shinde’s homeopathy degree gets cancelled because of his alleged illegal activities. 
 
 “We are planning to find out from which organisation he acquired his homeopathy degree so that we can write to them, requesting cancellation of the degree as soon as possible,” an official added.
 
 The police have also appealed to Shinde’s patients, especially women who had to bear the brunt of his actions, to come forward and lodge complaints.
 
