HYDERABAD: His money sank after three bore wells went dry, hospital bills of his ailing wife mounted and he had to pay school fees of three children, including daughters. Pushed to the brink, 38-year-old Ravi Kethavath, a farmer from Medak district took up a job in   for making quick money. Two and half months ago, he died in a road accident in  . While his family is in mourning, Ravi's body will arrive in Hyderabad on Monday, en route to his native village in Medak. 

 "He had 2-lakh debt to clear and went to Saudi to earn. But, he failed to send money home after being conned by employers. And tragedy struck on December 31, 2016, when he was knocked down by a car and died on the spot," said Ravi's elder brother, Sakru Naik, on Sunday. There would not have been any reason for Ravi to go to Saudi. He cultivated sugarcane in his three-acre field in Kamaram village of Shankarampet in Medak district. Wells had gone dry and he had no water for irrigation. Kethavath sunk three bore wells, which also failed. That cost him huge money. 
 
 An acquaintance took him to Saudi Arabia on a tourist visa, which was valid for a month till April 2016. He took up work as a construction labourer, overstaying illegally. For the months he worked, he did not get paid. When he died, sending his coffin home was difficult. Sakru Naik said they approached many politicians, but got no help.
 
 "The Indian embassy in Riyadh helped the family and tried not to burden them with expenses of transporting the body to India," said social worker and   leader T R Sriniwas of Hyderabad. Considering the economic condition of the family, Sriniwas moved the embassy and sought help.
 
 "There were other problems in getting the body back to India. Since he was an illegal immigrant, Saudi laws are specific that the sponsor or employer should produce a letter. Since Ravi Kethavath was illegally employed, the contractor refused to acknowledge he had employed him," said Sriniwas.
 
 A lawyer, Rakesh, known to Ravi Kethavath's family, brother Sakru Naik, and brother-in-law Bilya Naik got the documentation done to enable the Indian embassy in Riyadh to complete formalities of identifying Ravi's body. 
 
 Some people offered services to Ravi's family said they could send body home if 10,000 Saudi Riyals ( 1.77 lakh) was paid. Others sought to fleece them of 50,000 to 1 lakh. However, the Indian embassy in Riyadh helped out the family. Hiss last rites will be performed in his native village on Monday. 
 
