Nagpur: The city police have registered a case against a 40-year-old man for sexually exploiting his eldest daughter for the last two months. The accused was also convicted for raping his neighbour in 1999. The survivor, who turned 18 in January, was about to commit suicide and had also written a two-page note a couple of days. But she luckily met a social activist with the help for her relative, who counselled her to fight with the situation and file an FIR against her father Ramcharan Singh (name changed). The girl didn’t even reveal the matter to her mother, who had gone to Bihar at her in-laws place in October last year. When the social activist approached senior police inspector Sunil Bonde, as the incident took place in the jurisdiction of the Kalamna police station, he sent a squad and nabbed the accused from his residence on Saturday.  “She was only nine years old when he tried to rape my daughter, eldest among five sisters, for the first time,” said the survivor’s mother, who too decided to end her life as she was fed up with her husband’s behaviour. She said the accused was arrested for raping their neighbour on January 7, 1999, and sent to the central jail, the day when she gave birth to her daughter. Earlier, Ramcharan had tried to exploit close relatives too, the woman said. The family shifted to the city at their own place in Bhandewadi around two decades ago. In October 2016, the survivor, a school dropout, had gone to Bihar along with her four sisters and mother. In the first half of December, her uncle dropped her back to the city as she wanted to do some vocational course to secure her career, with two younger sisters. “On December 27, Ramcharan approached her and did obscene acts. She pushed him away and threatened him to inform her mother,” social activist Nutan Rewatkar told TOI. Then for a month, he maintained a distance with her. But on January 23, he thrashed her badly and threatened her to kill with a knife. He sexually exploited her till mid of March when he raped her last, added Rewatkar. When her younger sister saw Ramcharan exploiting the survivor, he threatened to kill her by gagging her mouth with a pillow. The matter came to the fore when the survivor informed her relatives that she has decided to take the extreme step. They alerted the social activist, who met the survivor and her mother. “Under the guidance of PI Bonde, the cops laid a trap to nab Ramcharan, a labourer, while he was at home and we rescued the survivor,” said Rewatkar, who has rescued several minors earlier. “We slapped the accused with rape charges and also registered a case under The Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012,” Bonde said.