Chennai: This spring, tea export are starting on a dull note, as the first flush of the most preferred Darjeeling tea becoming dearer. Given the incessant rain and dip in production by up to 70% compared to last year, the premium first flush of Darjeeling teas, predominate the export market, are about 20-40% more expensive, exporters say.  First flush Darjeeling teas form over 18-20% of the total export market and are sold at premium prices. The produce from Darjeeling has fallen over the years from 10 million kg (mkg) earlier to just 7-8 mkg currently and may decline further as the plants age. With increase in input prices, startups such as Teabox, Vahdam Teas and Teamonk which have over 80% of their tea leaves exported, look to increase in the market share by absorbing the difference in comparison to bulk exporters, who have correspondingly increased their selling prices. “Shops and bulk exporters who work on lower margins are passing on the prices to the consumers. With the high margins we usually earn, we can afford to retain customers and target newer customers with our competitive prices,” said Bala Sarda, founder, Vahdam Teas that passes on 5% of the increase in costs to the customers. The companies add that there is close to a 50% increase in the prices sold through bulk exporters, which are available at stores abroad. For instance, one of the premium brands Mariage Freres sell Darjeeling Tea at Euro 75/100 gm ($79.64/100gm), whereas home grown brand Vahdam Tea sells the same quantity at $37 dollars. Kaushal Dugar, founder, Teabox, said there has been a 13% increase in the traffic, attributed to new customers, who have turned to the company owing to their competitive prices and social media campaigns, in a bid to increase their sales and mitigate the reduction in margins.  “Usually, we have campaigns running on Facebook only. With the auction price increasing, we are pushing more sales with more user-centric campaigns on Instagram and Twitter too, which have resulted in 107% greater engagement,” he added.