AURANGABAD: Union minister   on Saturday announced that Marathwada will get a road network worth Rs 60,000 crore in the next five years and the authorities concerned have already been instructed to prepare a detailed   by this month-end.

 The Union minister for road transport, highways and shipping was in the city to inaugurate a new facility and building at the Hedgewar Hospital in the city. 
 
 Speaking to the media, he said that the works already in progress in the region were being speeded up. “The state government has already initiated land acquisition process for the Rs 8,000 crore Nagpur-Solapur- Ratnagiri national highway which would benefit Vidarbha, Marathwada, western Maharashtra and Konkan area,” he said. 
 
 In addition, Gadkari said the railways were making efforts to help build a 7km tunnel in the ghat section on   road. The work on this tunnel is expected to start within four to five months. 
 
 Efforts are also on to introduce at least four-lane roads from Aurangabad toward Paithan, Shirdi, Ajanta and Nanded. A review meeting would soon be organised to review these works so that these roads are constructed speedily, he said. 
 
 While addressing a gathering of doctors, entrepreneurs and activists, Gadkari regretted that there are many areas in the country, including the tribal belts, that continue to face problems such as lack of proper drinking water, health facilities and electricity. The country requires nine lakh doctors to ensure health services reach remote areas, he said. 
 
 “We all have to ensure that these basic facilities reach these neglected areas. The situation has to change and concerted efforts have to be made in this direction,” he said.
 
 While taking a dig at opportunist political workers, he said “Generally, the leaders focus is on getting party nominations for their entire family and even drivers. They have forgotten the spirit of service and make effort only to see themselves or their relatives gain some position of power.” 
 
 He declared Rs 5 crore assistance to the Hedgewar Hospital on behalf of the   under corporate social responsibility for purchase of surgical equipment.
 
