In the episode of  , Preeta appeals to Karan to let her prove herself. Karan, on the other hand, is not ready to accept   as guilty. He decides to speak to Sherlyn directly to clear the air.

 Once Sherlyn arrives he takes her to Rishab. Kareena was happy to see that Rishab wanted to meet her. Upstairs, Sherlyn recognizes it was Karan’s room. Karan shares with Sherlyn that Preeta thinks that she was involved in the food poisoning case. Sherlyn is outraged at learning that and she calls Preeta a middle-classed narrow-minded girl. This makes Karan suspect that Sherlyn must be jealous.
 
 Sherlyn then seeks Karan's reassurance and asks her if he trusts her. Karan replies he does. Sherlin then tells him that even Kareena thinks that Preeta would try and trap him as well. Karan asks why she thinks so. At that point, Sherlyn turns to go to Rakhi, Karan asks her about food poisoning; and observes her closely. He then mentions that Preeta went to her house last night. Sherlyn tries to cover her tracks by lying that she was here with Rakhi.
 Downstairs, Sherlyn thinks Preeta must not have come to her home, else she must have let the cat out of the bag by now. She decides to go to Rakhi first, then takes Rishab in her own hands. She asks a servant about Rishab. Back in the room, Karan says if Sherlin was with Rakhi how she could meet another boy. He is convinced that Preeta is a liar, he won't ever set store by what she says.
 
 At home, Shrishti was lost in thoughts of Sameer. Dadi comes in to take her for tea and ends up complaining that both the sisters never share their problems. Preeta had also slept at night without saying anything. Shrishti takes Dadi to do some house chores. In the room, Karan comes to greet Rakhi who tells him that his father was here whole night. Karan then asks her if Sherlyn was with them last night. Rakhi then discloses that Sherlin only came for a few minutes, children today never get time to be with them. Karan concludes that Mr. Luthra would know if Sherlin was here, and if not then Preeta must be right.
 
 Shrishti brings tea for Preeta. Preeta apologizes to dadi for being upset last night. Shrishti then asks Preeta what she spoke to Sherlin about, they were so stressed at home but Preeta decides to keep mum as she thinks it not the right time. Preeta tells Shrishti that Sherlin wasn't home. Preeta reminds Shrishti to focus on Sarla's bail. Dadi asks Preeta to take the packet to the police station.
 
 Rishab couldn't focus on work as his mind was occupied with Preeta's complaint about leaving her helpless when her mother is serving time in jail. He wants to call Preeta and check on her but he thinks he has no face as he broke his promise. He decides to at least apologize to her. At that point, Sherlin comes from behind and greets him. Sherlin decides that she will take Preeta's place in his heart by pretending to be like her in every way.
  
  Later Preeta opens up about the whole story to her Dadi and sister, about going to the hospital, about witnessing Sherlin as characterless and also about Rishab's denial to help up. She decides to hire a good lawyer. She asks Dadi to use the money that had saved for the hall to save Sarla. Dadi tells her to take the money from their room.
  
 Rishab then confronts Sherlin and starts the conversation by asking her if she reached home safe. After which Sherlin says she was really concerned about Rakhi whole night. Sherlin says she has to take care of Rakhi at this time. Sherlin notices Rishab was still lost in thoughts.
  
 In the corridor, Karan asks Mr. Luthra who discloses that Sherlin didn't come to the room last night.
  
 As Rishab turns to leave Sherlyn convinces him to speak to her mother. Meanwhile Karan comes downstairs and watches Sherlin deliberately pull the rug to fall into Rishab's arms. That's where the episode ends. Keep watching for more up dates.
 
