JAIPUR: Out of top 200 ranks, 199 of them have been secured by in-service  , who have worked in   in difficult areas in the provisional merit list issued by the   Board-2017 and   for post-graduation courses.

 Counselling of candidates will be held soon for admissions. They secured incentive marks for working in rural and difficult areas. They have got the reward for serving patients in rural and difficult areas after passing MBBS examination.
 
 The provisional state merit list (combined) PG medical candidates was issued on April 8. The fresh candidates, who have not worked in government hospitals, are dejected with the list.  , who had bagged 126th rank in NEET, is placed at 137 rank in the state’s provisional merit list. He is a fresher candidate, who has not worked in government’s hospitals in rural or difficult areas. The list shows only one fresher candidate, who has not worked in government hospitals, featured in the top 200 candidates. Among the top 200 candidates in provisional merit list, there are 199 candidates who have worked in rural areas, hilly areas or difficult areas in government hospitals for two years or three years.
 
 Among top 275 candidates in merit list, there are 10 fresher candidates and rest are those who have worked in government hospitals.
 
 The doctors who have worked in rural, hilly and difficult areas have got the benefit of incentive marks. 
 
 Due to shortage of doctors in rural areas, the government has given MBBS doctors working in government hospitals in difficult areas the benefit of incentive marks in merit list to attract MBBS doctors in government jobs to deal with shortage of doctors in difficult areas.
 
 Livid over the merit list prepared by the government, the fresher candidates, who have not worked in the government hospitals, are feeling dejected. They claimed that they are nowhere in top merit list which ensures them branches of their choice like radiology, paediatrics and other clinical branches which are in demand.
 
 
