VADODARA: Nita Sikligar, residing in   village of   taluka, used to manufacture and sell country-made liquor to earn quick bucks for her old mother’s treatment. But, since a week   has started selling vegetables in her village.

 Sikligar is just one example of several women who used to work in illicit liquor trade in Waghodia taluka and have now switched to better profession. The change in Waghodia taluka has come after Vadodara rural police conducted a de-addiction camp last week.
 
 The camp was part of its social initiative and to create an alternate livelihood for those addicted to liquor, tobacco and those in illegal country-made trade. “After the prohibition law was amended, the government and police is serious to curb the illicit business. Taking legal action is one approach but to deal with it with social approach is another way therefore we zeroed in on women   who were operating in the taluka,” said superintendent of police, Vadodara (rural) Saurabh Tolumbia.
 
 Around 200 people participated in the camp, out of which there were more than 100 women who were worked as bootleggers. “Most of these women were involved in bootlegging business to make quick money since their husband would not be alive or would be bed-ridden due to medical reasons,” said Waghodia police sub-inspector Y R Chauhan.
 
 The camp was held in association with members of Akhil Vishwa Gayatri Parivar who showed documentaries and made poster presentations to explain the participants about the ill-effects of addictions. “Apart from explaining them the ill-effects, the participants were also given legal literacy since most of them were not aware about the new prohibition law,” said Tolumbia.
 
 He added that the police department will also support the participants changing their profession by contacting other government departments. The camp conducted at Waghodia was first in the series of similar other camps which will be conducted in across talukas.
 
 “More such camps will be conducted in a phased manner. Also after taking stock of outcome of the of this camp changes will be made in the other events,” Tolumbia said.
 
 
