THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The   and anti-corruption bureau came in for heavy criticism in the   on Thursday, with the opposition painting chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan as a mute spectator when vigilance director Jacob Thomas was defying cabinet decisions and mocking a court order. 

 In the notice seeking leave for an adjournment motion, Congress MLA V D Satheesan said Thomas’s actions have pushed the bureaucracy on the back-foot and brought state administration to a standstill. 
 
 “Even the cabinet decision taken by the earlier government (DGP Shanker Reddy’s promotion) and endorsed by the present government was questioned by vigilance. The chief minister remained a mute spectator when the director put up a notice, mocking the court order (HC’s ‘vigilance raj’ remark), that no more complaints of high-level corruption would be accepted,” Satheesan said.
 
 Satheesan also asked the chief minister to seek state intelligence help to find who is actually behind people like Paichira Navas, who are filing complaints against officers before the vigilance. Comparing the agency to a cow in the chief minister’s cattle shed, Satheesan said its report exonerating minister J Mercykutty Amma and cashew corporation MD T F Xavier of corruption charges was a sham. He said that the vigilance officer who probed the matter, R Sukeshan, is a close friend of Xavier. 
 
 In reply, the chief minister said that he has asked the concerned authorities to examine the vigilance notice issue. Going on the defensive, he said that “certain people behave as if they are born to file complaints”, making an obvious reference to Navas. He said that there was no other go in a democracy than to probe when a complaint is received against a person. 
 
 Opposition leader   termed officers using benamis to file complaints against each other as a dark era for the state civil service. 
 
 Based on chief minister’s explanations, when the speaker denied the adjournment motion, the opposition staged a walkout in protest.
 
