NOIDA: Seeking refunds from online firm  , more than 100 investors from different states gathered outside its office at D-57 in Noida Sector 2 on Monday.

 The company had suspended permanent operations till April 20 saying that their ‘banking system’ is undergoing a change and had given notices in newspapers with effect to that.
 
 Coming close on the heels of the Social Trade Ponzi scam, the investors had started approaching the company’s office in Sector 2 from February 7.
 
 While some insisted that they were not asking for refunds immediately, most ‘investors’ who had put their money in the five ‘publishing programs’ offered by the company said that they had expected senior company officials to face them. Most investors said that their making a complaint against the company would not help them get refunds.
 
 “I have a total of over Rs 17 lakh invested under 15 IDs,” said a resident of Mumbai, who had come to visit the company office and meet directors Sandesh Verma and Anurag Garg on Monday. The investors included chartered accountants, engineers and other professionals.
 
 Sameer Kumar, a resident of Ghaziabad, who had invested nearly Rs 3.45 lakh in three plans, said: “I have been coming here since last week to seek refund from the company. Earlier, officials said the refund would be made on Monday. However, today I can see this notice pasted on the gate. They should have at least held a meeting with the investors to clarify their position.”
 
 “I had bought three plans, two for myself and one for my wife, which meant my total investment was Rs 3.45 lakh,” Kumar said. However, there were many who had created chains of investors by asking them to buy the company’s plans.
 
 The company offered plans in five different slabs of Rs 5,750, Rs 11,500, Rs 28,750, Rs 57,500 and Rs 1,15,000 and after making payment for a particular publishing plan, it offered Rs 6 for advertising one link at its webpage, ‘addsbook.com’.
 
 For each plan, a unique ID and password are created for the “publisher”, who can advertise multiple links of products registered and subscribed on addsbook.com on their social media accounts. Under the “promotional and referral income” feature which is displayed on the company’s website, it has also said that any publisher (investor) who refers the company’s plan to his friends and relatives would be eligible to get 5% of the licence publishing fees as promotional and referral income.
 
 Puneet Kaur of Shahdara said that scores of investors were based in Bangalore, Lucknow, Haldwani, etc.
 
 Meanwhile, a group of invstors misbehaved with journalists and raised slogans against the media too.
 
 An investor said, “We support the company. The news channels may call it a scam but we are not going to get a refund if the issue comes under the spotlight.”
 
 Company director Anurag Garg had said on February 7 that they decided to close it temporarily because the banks they were dealing with were trying to study their model of work after the Social Trade scam broke out. year.”
 
 
