Everyone loves Batman. So much so that even his villains are becoming a part of mainstream culture. Part of the credit should go to Christopher Nolan’s iconic   trilogy. But we must also consider Batman’s appeal as a mysterious enforcer of justice, a man trained by the world’s top assassins to be the greatest vigilante of all time. Batman’s secondary conflict usually stems from some of the citizens of   and most of its police force treating him like an self-appointed law enforcement agency without legal authority. But you’re absolutely fine with that, because you don’t exist alongside   and even if you did, he won’t hurt you since you’re a morally upright citizen of democracy.

 Real life isn’t as black and white, or in Batman’s case, black and a darker black. In real life, a vigilante could be anyone who’s mildly frustrated with the law to a full blown terrorist. There have been many instances of a mob dragging out an alleged rapist, stripping him naked and murdering him. From shared accountability, let us skip to a similar gray area of women defending themselves when sexually assaulted. 
 
 We call it ‘gray’ since marital rape is still not criminalised in India and the citizens seem set on protesting with such conviction that we all become even more backwards as a result. In such a scenario, what would exactly constitute sexual abuse? Would it be justified if the person who was sexually assaulted attacked and seriously injured the assailant? This brings us to the lovely concept of ‘Bobbitisation’.
 
  is the act of removing the sexual organs of a man, often without his consent and without any medical rigmarole. Kerala was introduced to this concept a few months prior when a self professed   was given the procedure by a woman who claimed to have been the target of his sexual advances for years. Less than a week ago, a common man suffered the same allegedly due to the ire of his first wife after he had planned a second marriage.
 
 This crime is considered complex due to the implications as opposed to something more commonplace and easier such as stabbing. Stabbing can be accomplished in three easy steps.
 Step 1: Procure instrument to stab with.
 Step 2: Point instrument in the direction of the target, ideally in a perpendicular manner.
 Step 3: Move towards target until deafening screams are heard.
 
 Bobbitisation involves a lot more steps. For instance, the male needs to have his reproductive organ exposed. Locations where a male would expose his nether regions do not usually overlap with locations where sharp utensils are widely available. Also, it would be quite difficult to separate a man from his genitalia, anatomically speaking. This doesn’t even take into account a man’s tendency to not wanting such a separation.
 
 This all brings into consideration the premeditated nature of the crime. Why would a woman have a knife easily accessible in a place where the man was comfortable enough to expose his most vulnerable part of the body? How did the woman manage to take the time to assault a man’s private parts despite his anatomy and him resisting violently against the same?
 
 Such complexities will be glossed over for India’s national sport of judging people. Most likely this story will be relegated to the status of the usual passive misogynistic WhatsApp forwards, talking about how husbands are now taking their wives shopping all the time lest they face vengeful retribution in the form of a wife with a knife. At best, as in the case of the godman, we will receive pronouncements lauding the act as a form of women’s empowerment. This begs the question as to what the government and law enforcement are doing such that the citizens are encouraged to take law into their own hands. Remember, Batman only exists because Gotham is a crime ridden city with either corrupt or inept policemen.
 
 While some will discredit women’s empowerment as being barbaric due to these few cases (an act commonly known as the cherry picking fallacy) most will applaud such vigilantism. Why not have a super heroine called  , who runs around the city at night hacking off men’s genitals? That would be the wish fulfillment we deserve, but not the one we need right now.
 
 The harder thing to do is to acknowledge that violence begets violence and that any crime is a dark mark against all of us. Each of us contributes to every crime directly or through passivism. Would it be possible for us to face Batman and tell him that we let him down by supporting violence in retribution for violence? No we would not. Because Batman is complicated and scary, just like the real world.
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
