KANPUR:   walked in with a plan. He split the two best batsmen in the team, himself and MS Dhoni, with him taking the first ball of the innings and MS Dhoni slotted at No.5 to drive the home stretch. All made sense. The best batsman of any team needs to face the maximum number of deliveries. But the fast-paced nature of T20 cricket can be cruel - it doesn't give enough time to redraw and execute plans.

 The plan didn't work. India mustered 147/7, setting a modest target, by T20 standards, for England.
 
 India fell behind, giving the opposition momentum and playing catch-up till the end. An enterprising, smartly-balanced England team walked away with a seven-wicket win, exposing an unsure Indian batting line-up, besides Kohli and Dhoni. The fixation with chasing targets and the paranoia of setting one seemed to unsettle India's batting once England skipper Morgan sent the hosts in to bat.
 
 Kohli, for once, struggled to break free in his 29 and the rest around him struggled to chalk out a pace to bat at. England's canny, hit-the-deck pacers made life difficult.   went through his quota of overs conceding under six runs an over and claiming two wickets. Once Suresh Raina's cameo ended at 34, Dhoni was left alone with the arduous task of having to determine a defendable target. Thus, the 'fearless cricket' Kohli had promised never showed up even as Dhoni finished unbeaten on 36 from 26 deliveries.
 
 India seemed over-reliant on Kohli. The lack of conviction in the Indian batting meant Morgan didn't have to use Adil Rashid at all.
 
 On the contrary, England's two best batsmen - Joe Root (46) and   (51) - showed how to pace a tricky T20 chase. It didn't matter that Yuzvendra Chahal cleaned up the two on-fire openers, Sam Billings and Jason Roy, in the space of three balls. It didn't matter that Kohli's unknown spinners - Chahal and debutant Pervez Rasool - dried down the runs for a couple of overs. Root and Morgan teased the Indians away with their calculated and bold shot selection.
 
 Overs nine to eleven showed the cracks in the rattled Indian camp. Dhoni, Nehra and Kohli converged at the end of every over for animated discussions but the English duo made sure that the Indian spinners don't get away unscathed, as Kohli's men had allowed Ali to do.
 
 Kohli has got the first taste of leading his country in the blink-and-miss format of the game. He might have blinked the first time around. His side has taken a beating. When he packs his kit bag, he will definitely look at the lessons from the match and think about a way to post a defendable target. As he summed up the day after the match: “If you don't have runs on the board, it gets difficult for the bowlers.” 
 
 It's time to think beyond chasing, maybe.
 
