LONDON: Fugitive liquor baron  's two-week extradition trial date has been fixed for December 4 after Westminster Magistrates' Court in London heard that all the evidence in the case has finally been received from the government of India and reviewed by the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS). 

 Chief magistrate Emma Arbuthnot demanded the CPS now pull the evidence, which runs into 2,000 pages, together and summarise it by the end of July.
 
 Ben Watson, acting for Mallya, said: "We now have over 2,000 pages of material - it is not entirely clear how it all fits together. It would assist us greatly if we could have an opening note by the end of this month that would be their own analysis of their own evidence."
 
 Watson told the court: "We need to see a more detailed analysis of the evidence they intend to rely on to meet the statutory test of an extradition case, specifically Section 84 (of the Extradition Act of 2003)," he said. Section 84 requires the judge to decide if there is sufficient evidence which would make a case, otherwise he must order the person's discharge.
 
 Arbuthnot fixed Mallya's two-week trial to start on December 4 despite attempts by the CPS for it to be advanced.
 
 Mark Summers Q C, representing CPS on behalf of the government of India, said he had had "excellent cooperation from the Indian authorities" who had now sent the full service of materials needed to establish a prima facie case and the CPS had reviewed all of them. "From this side we are ready and willing to proceed. We invite the court to now fix the extradition hearing for the earliest date the court can accommodate. If the court can accommodate a lesser timescale in a shorter period of time than December 4 that may be preferable. We are very keen to progress this case and we would like to see some rigour in the timetable. From the volume of the material we hope the court now understands the scope and scale of the evidential review," he said. 
 
 But Watson pushed for the December date to be retained, saying the CPS may need to "make further enquiries" once it received the defence papers. "It is regrettable that we were only informed yesterday about further materials," he said.
 
 A second non-bailable warrant was issued against Mallya and IDBI bank officials at a Prevention of Money Laundering Act court in Mumbai on Wednesday alleging money laundering laundering worth Rs 950 crore. 
 
 "We were served with 800 pages dated 9 June before the last hearing at 7pm on Wednesday night with no explanation as to why, and also a volume three of 730 pages dated 29 June. Yet this request has been on foot since 13th February. We have asked for a prima facie case. Mr Mallya wishes to engage as constructively as possible with the proceedings. In the new material there are references to further charges relying on the same offences but these are money laundering offences and there is uncertainty as to the final scope of the case," he said. 
 
 Mallya, 61, had been excused from attending Thursday's hearing but surprised the media and avoided the paparazzi by turning up. Dressed in a blue blazer, grey trousers and white, open-neck shirt, he looked visibly stressed and tired and had huge bags under his eyes as he stood at the side of the court, rather than in the dock, to watch the proceedings. 
 
 Speaking outside the court the UB Group chairman said: "We will file our defence. They are welcome to present whatever they want and we will respond."
 
 Mallya is on conditional bail until December 4. His next case management hearing will take place on September 14. The defence must file a 30-page skeleton of its case by November 17 and the Indian government must respond by November 27.
 
 Mallya fled to Hertfordshire in the   in March 2016 after a consortium of 17 banks in India moved the   to prevent him from leaving, accusing him of defaulting on loans worth more than Rs 9,000 crore given to his now defunct  . He was arrested in London on an extradition warrant on April 18. 
 
 
