SHAHJAHANPUR: Morning prayers at the Arya Samaj temple in Shahjahanpur’s Town Hall end at 8.30am. After the chanting of the ritualistic shlokas, cries of ‘Bharat Mata ki Jai’ and ‘Gau Mata ki Jai’ rent the air. Locals say the chanting is routine, but the sloganeering is not. Yet, everyone goes about their business as usual.

 With polling for the second phase of UP elections to begin in less than 24 hours, corner store conversations almost all dwell on the political possibilities locally as well as in UP. In Shahjahanpur, one of the talking points is the fate of the town’s traditional ‘Holi Ka Nawab’ procession, if the local SP candidate Tanveer Khan unseats BJP’s seven-time MLA Suresh Khanna.
 
 The controversial procession is an annual affair on Holi for as long as the locals can remember. “A Muslim man is appointed Nawab. He’s dressed and fed by the organisers for two days. Then, the night before the procession, he is made to consume so much alcohol that he is driven nearly senseless. The next morning, the procession travels from Chowk through most of the old city, with the Nawab being beaten with brooms, sticks and shoes,” says Rajesh, a bystander at a local sweetmeat shop in Town Hall.
 
 The tradition has faced considerable opposition from the city’s minority population, not only as hurtful for the community, but also because it is inhuman that a man should be treated thus. With the event having triggered riots in the past, local mosques are covered with an oil cloth lest the riotous crowd throws ink or colour at the structure. To prevent an outbreak of communal tensions, large contingents of security forces are deployed to walk with the procession as it travels through the city.
 
 Masoom Raza Khan, a local, even went to Allahabad high court to put a halt to this tradition. However, his plea, filed on March 18 this year was turned down, with the court saying the matter fell within the jurisdiction of the district administration, and if they did not have a problem with it, the court could not intervene.
 
 Both SP’s Tanveer Khan and BSP’s Mohammed Aslam have not made any promises regarding discontinuing the tradition of ‘Holi ke Nawab’. Even so, the population is beginning to be polarised on the back of a rumour that the procession will be discontinued if a Muslim legislator takes control of the city.
 
 In the run up to the polls, communal differences have suddenly entered drawing room discourse even though there has been no report of an untoward incident in the district. In Dadraul assembly segment, local BJP worker RP Singh says he’s heard that a cow was slaughtered in Shahbad   of Dadraul. When TOI went looking to see whether the incident actually occurred, it turned out Shahbad is across the border in Hardoi, and that such an incident was never reported even over there. Yet, the rumour mills are already spinning.
 
 BJP leader and ‘Hindu Hriday Samrat’ Yogi Adityanath has played his part in inflaming passions in Shahjahanpur. At an election rally in Jalalabad on the last day of campaigning, he alleged the Samajwadi Kanya Vidya Dhan scheme was only open to Muslim girls. This is factually incorrect as the scheme can be availed by all girls who have passed Class XII and belong to BPL families. But Adityanath says it with such confidence that the crowds at the rally clap in agreement. In Jalalabad, where the BSP candidate Neeraj Maurya is a frontrunner for the seat, and BJP’s Manoj Kashyap trails behind the SP contender, Adityanath also rakes up the anti-Romeo squads. The Muzaffarnagar riots could have been prevented if the anti-Romeo squads existed, he says. 
 
 The bitterness has spread across the length and breadth of the sugarcane producing region. At a roadside dhaba a few kilometres short of Katra assembly constituency, Nathuram Dubey says he’s heard 37 cows were found dead in neighbouring Lakhimpur Kheri. It is unfortunate, he says, that parties resort to communal politics to divide people. “This does no one any good. The politicians will disappear the day after the polls. But we must live and work together. These divisions, once created, remain forever,” he says. 
 
 
