GURUGRAM: With   watching — both erstwhile mainstays of the national side — the first edition of the Senior State   Championship, which concluded in the city on Sunday, got off to a bright start.

 The uncompromising approach chosen by some of the teams led to a few on-field injuries (one of them serious), and there was even a smidgen of controversy. But there were a lot of positives to take away from the three days.
 
 More encouragingly, the   Football Association had committed to insure all the players who turned out (480 overall – and not forgetting the 15 referees). It showed that the state body cared for its footballers.
 
 “Each player was insured for Rs 2 lakh,” Suraj Pal Amu, president of the Haryana Football Association, told TOI. “In case a player got injured, all his hospitalisation expenses would be taken care of.”
 
 The first such challenge arose on the opening day, when Himanshu, playing for Jhajjar district, broke his foot after being at the end of a particularly bruising tackle. He had to be operated on, and a rod inserted in his foot. “We sent his details to the insurance company, who took responsibility thereafter,” he added.
 
 A lad from Sirsa hurt his nose, while another from   was also injured in action. Clearly, there was no lack of purpose and passion!
 
 There was also an element of drama, when a team raised an objection against another for fielding players who had turned out for other states. Soon, more such examples came to light. The ‘guilty’ players, in their defence, said they had been forced into such a step for the lack of a footballing infrastructure, and the absence of any competitive playing opportunities, in Haryana. “We told them that we’ll provide them with the facilities, and also regular league football, so that they don’t leave Haryana for other states,” Amu assured.
 
 A total of 24 teams appeared in the championship, with each of the state’s 22 districts represented. Besides, the sports school in Rai (Sonepat), and HVPNL, the state electricity board, also sent sides. The teams were divided into two pools, the top four in each going through to the knockout phase.
 
 The matches were held in the city, at Tau Devi Lal stadium, and in the rural surrounds of Garhi Harsaru village, where the football ground of the senior secondary school hosted the semifinals and final of the tournament.
 
 For the record, Fatehabad district defeated Rohtak 3-0 in the final (Gurgaon reached the last eight but was unable to progress any further, going down 0-1 to the ultimate runner-up). Overall, there was plenty of young promise on show, and with the HFA slowly getting its organisational act together, Haryana football can now go places. 
 
 
