Udhagamandalam: In a first, a training programme for judicial magistrates and munsif court   of the 2015-batch from across the state in connection with the Wildlife Protection Act and Tamil Nadu Forest Act, 1972 was conducted at the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) on Sunday. Field training on forest-related cases for the civil judges was the main part of the programme.

 Organised by the Tamil Nadu State Judicial Academy in association with the forest department, the programme was attended, at least, by 140 judicial officers in five batches. The training programme commenced on June 16 and every week a batch of around 30 judges underwent training programme for two days.
 
 According to Srinivas R Reddy, field director, MTR, the programme was to sensitize about forest cases and also an attempt to make an understanding that forest cases are different from police cases. “This is the first time, this kind of training programme is being conducted for civil judges in the country,” he said.
 
 Speaking on the concluding day, G Chandrasekaran, deputy conservator of forests (retired) observed, “Safeguarding the forests is in the hands of judiciary. In a genuine case, if an accused is convicted, the forest official is indirectly encouraged to work more.” According to him, never a case of forest fire in Tamil Nadu saw conviction. He also pleaded that a chance may be given to forest officials to defend themselves in the court in the interest of wildlife and forests.
 
 Interestingly, Chandrasekaran had created a record seeing around 250 cases convicted during his tenure in the forest department. It was observed in the programme that electrocution cases of wildlife go nullified as TNEB is not supportive.
 
 Justice M Govindaraj, judge, Madras high court said, “Without forest, our livelihood is very difficult as forests maintain conducive resources for our living.” He advised the young civil judges that they had to be very careful while granting injunction in forest and wildlife related cases. And habitual offenders should be punished severely.
 
 At the sideline of the programme, Justice M S Ramesh, judge, Madras high court told TOI, “This training programme would facilitate the young civil judges to gain first-hand information about forests and its importance.”
 
 
