NEW DELHI: Ram Singh Yadav had little hope of Thursday turning out to be  's day. After all, his son had just bowled seven overs against Australia and conceded 39 runs without claiming a wicket. Sitting in front of the TV in his Kanpur home, Ram Singh was, however, in for the surprise of his life - Kuldeep bowled a magical eighth over and became the first Indian spinner to take a hat-trick in ODIs.

 The Uttar Pradesh-based 'chinaman' bowler sent back three Australian batsmen in a row - Matthew Wade, Ashton Agar and Pat Cummins - and made the whole of   burst into celebration. The biggest celebration of all, though, happened back home.
 
 “A few of Kuldeep's friends dropped in with sweets and then the local media came to capture the celebration, which went on till 11 pm. This is one of the biggest moments for Kuldeep and I hope he continues to perform for India. I keep telling him not to give up easily,” proud father Ram Singh told TOI on Friday.
 
 Ever since Kuldeep was 10, his father harboured hopes that he would play Ranji Trophy for Uttar Pradesh. Today, Kuldeep is turning in match-winning performances for India and his father is not surprised. “He is a very attacking bowler and he told me after the match that he kept trying for wickets despite not being able to grip the ball well. He has a long way to go and I want to see him give his best shot in every game,” Ram Singh said.
 
 Kuldeep's childhood coach   Pandey, who was instrumental in turning him from a medium-pacer to a spinner, was ecstatic. “Kuldeep wanted to become a fast bowler like Wasim Akram. He even cried and became angry when I told him that he can't be like Akram as he doesn't have the build. He then came back and said that he would bowl spin,” he said. “Secretly, he still nourished the dream of bowling fast and used to do it initially in my absence in the nets. One day I sat with him and explained to him how it would help his career if he bowled spin.”
 
 As a spinner, the first ever ball Kuldeep bowled was a 'chinaman'. Coach Pandey couldn't believe it. He told the young Kuldeep to bowl again and every time, he bowled left-arm wrist spin. Within a year, Kuldeep had improved by leaps and bounds. When Pandey eventually taught him how to bowl the googly, he was taking wickets at will. “If there is something to learn today, he won't wait for tomorrow.”
 
