Chandigarh: The Punjab government has sent a panel of three names of IAS officers to the Election Commission of India (ECI) for the appointment of new state   (CEO). Meanwhile, present CEO V K Singh has sought 27 more companies of central armed police force (CAPF) to ensure free and fair Gurdaspur Lok Sabha bypoll scheduled for October 11.

 The panel of officers sent by the state government for the post of CEO includes: Raji P Srivastava, V K Meena and R Venkat Ratnam. At present, Srivastava is director of Mahatma Gandhi State Institute of Public Administration at Chandigarh, Meena is revenue secretary and commissioner of Patiala division, and Ratnam is principal secretary of welfare of scheduled castes and backward classes.
 
 The 2019 Lok Sabha elections will be held under the watch of new CEO selected by the ECI. Present incumbent 1990-batch IAS officer V K Singh had assumed the charge in February 2014 and would continue on the post till the Gurdaspur Lok Sabha bypoll is over.
 
 The Punjab government has already got 30 paramilitary companies for the bypoll. The CEO had a meeting with the ECI officials on Wednesday at New Delhi and raised the demand for 27 more companies to ensure peaceful elections.
 
 The CEO told TOI, “30 companies have already reached Gurdaspur and we have raised the demand for some more paramilitary companies which we are hopeful of getting soon.” He added that there would be use of electronic voting machines fitted with voter verifiable paper audit trail (VVPAT) system at all polling stations in the Lok Sabha bypoll.
 
 A total number of 1,781 polling stations have been set up for the bypoll in the nine assembly segments falling under the Gurdaspur parliamentary constituency. As many as 15,17,436 voters are eligible to exercise their franchise in these assembly segments which include Batala, Bhoa, Dinanagar, Dera Baba Nanak, Fatehgarh Churian, Gurdaspur, Pathankot, Sujanpur and Qadian. The election has been necessitated after the death of four-time BJP MP and actor-turned-politician Vinod Khanna on April 27. A total of 11 candidates are in the fray for the bypoll.
 
 
