COIMBATORE: A 21-year-old engineering student from   district drowned in a pool in Isha Yoga Centre while taking bath there along with his friends on Friday.

 The deceased was identified as M Ramesh, of Kottaikadu near Kannikapuram in Thiruvannamalai. He was a third year BE (civil) student of the Ganadipathy Tulsi’s Jain Engineering College at   in Vellore.
 
 As many as 35 students from the college had gone to   in the Nilgiris a few days ago. They visited the Isha Yoga Centre near Alandurai on Friday morning and a group of students, including Ramesh, went to take bath in its artificial pool Suryakund.
 
 Ramesh drowned in the pool and he was immediately rescued and taken to the   at Avarampalayam, after providing him first aid at the Isha Yoga Centre. Doctors at Ramakrishna Hospital declared him brought dead and the body was sent to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital for postmortem.
 
 Isha Yoga Centre authorities claimed that the Suryakund had only 4.5ft water and said there was no chance for drowning. They suspect that Ramesh might have suffered an epileptic attack while taking bath and drowned in the pool.
 
 “The doctor at the centre attended to him immediately and provided him first aid. He also put the student on ventilator, besides trying to save him using an automated external defibrillator device. The cause of death can be ascertained only after we have the postmortem report.” said a source with the Isha Yoga Centre.
 
 The source also pointed out that instructions for using the pool had been put up near the Suryakund. “It clearly asks people with fits (epilepsy), uncontrolled heart disease, difficulty in breathing and giddiness/fainting spells to enter the pool only accompanied by another person to take care of them,” the source added. The students, he said, were given a lot of instructions before entering the Suryakund.
 
 When contacted for their version of the incident, Ramesh’s collegemates refused to speak to the media. The police, meanwhile, said they have alerted the parents of the deceased. The Alandurai police have registered a case and further investigation is on.
 
