NAGPUR: Four minors — the youngest a 14-year-old — and two others were nabbed on Friday for allegedly murdering 26-year-old Jeetendra  . The assailants, including, had smashed Kancha’s head and face with a stone before stabbing him several times on April 22 at  . The body was dumped in shrubs at a desolate place. Kaurti too had been an accused in a murder case registered in 2011. 

 Additional CP, crime (in-charge) Ranjan Kumar Sharma and Zonal DCP Deepali Masirkar, both now transferred, said the case was detected in a short time with collaborative efforts of Wadi police and unit one squad of crime branch. 
 
 The four minors were produced before the Juvenile Justice Board and later sent to the government observation home. The two other accused, Mahesh Warthi (21) and Ankeet Sharma (19), have been sent to police custody till May 2. 
 
 Sharma, now posted as SP Ahmednagar, said an interaction between cops and criminals, under city police’s ‘Dattak Yojana’, led to the detection. “One of the minors, who drives a school van, was picked up from Daryapur where he had fled after the murder,” he said. 
 
 The senior officer added that the six accused do not have any previous criminal record.
 
 DCP Masirkar, who would be soon taking charge as Assistant IG in the office of DGP, said the murder was a fallout of an old rivalry between Warthi and Kaurti. “Kaurti would often harass Warthi for bringing liquor, leading to arguments between them. During one such argument, Kaurti had warned Warthi of dire consequences. 
 
 The plan to eliminate Kaurti was hatched on the birthday of Warthi’s elder brother, Masirkar said. “Kaurti was sleeping in his vehicle after enjoying liquor. The assailants shifted Kaurti in a school van, drove to a desolate place and killed him,” she said and added that the body was discovered on April 27 and the case was detected within a day. 
 
 Though cops have cracked this case, they are still struggling with similar cases registered at Koradi and   last week. Body of 17-year-old Kishor Tembhurne was found with strangulation mark near an abandoned lake outside   under Koradi police station jurisdiction on Thursday. 
 
 Tembhurne, a school dropout, had left house to distribute invitation cards for a marriage in his family. The assailants had fled with one of the two mobile phones used by the victim. 
 
 It is learnt that Tembhurne, who earlier worked at a  , was in a relationship with two women, including one from Wardha. 
 
 In another case, New Kamptee police are still clueless in the murder of Arif Ansari, in his 20s, whose body was found on the tracks outside Ranala village last week.
 
