PANAJI: Amidst fears that the Parra variety of watermelons are slowly shrinking into oblivion, there seems to be some hope for revival of this crop with a few farmers’ efforts promising to yield a good produce this season.

  has been growing watermelons for nearly 70 years. But in recent years, those savouring the   are worried that farmers raising the crop are dwindling. Fears have also boosted a slight revival during the last couple of years. This year, Bakkar’s family is ready to harvest 2,000 watermelons in their farm.
 
 “This year’s watermelon produce has turned out to be fatter, bigger and sweeter,” another farmer,  , said. This year, the farmers shifted from regular fertilizers to good quality fertilizers offered by a chemical company. Experts have also been monitoring the crop.
 
 Parra sarpanch Delilah Lobo said that even pesticides are being sprayed on the crop fortnightly, free-of-cost. “Other varieties of watermelons are also being grown using the seeds distributed by the company. All this being a part of their   activity,” she said.  , who planted 300 seeds of the   variety of watermelons, said, “Since, we sell the produce directly to the consumer, the profit comes entirely to us. The harvest season will go on till mid-April and retail rates will gradually come down to a much-affordable price”. While the farmers are all set for a good crop, they face challenges in terms of theft and bird attacks.
 
 “The produce is abundant, but our only fear is of prowling by crows, myna and parrots,” said Bakkar, who still uses the conventional method of scarecrows.
 
 For Parsekar, however, the attack of the avians is not the only fear. “The downfall of getting a good crop is that there are thefts by notorious persons of the village. Around 200 of my watermelons were stolen this time,” she said.
 
 This fruit fetches anywhere from Rs 70 to Rs 120. She suspects that the stolen bounty is being sold in the markets by the thieves. “After struggling to keep Parra watermelons alive and making efforts for a plentiful produce, it is disappointing to wake up and find some stolen,” Parsekar said.
 
