Madurai: On Sunday morning, a group of people gathered at Yanaikal, where they garlanded the statue of barrister George Joseph, known affectionately as Rosapoo Durai in the locality. Hailing from Kerala, George Joseph was a pioneer in many fields, an advocate, trade unionist, journalist and   closely associated with Annie Besant’s Home Rule movement and non-cooperation movement during India’s freedom struggle. 

 George Joseph was born in Chenganoor in1887 in Kerala, which at that time was part of Travancore Kingdom. After his studies at Madras Christian College, he went to study at University of Edinburgh, pursuing law in London. During his stay in London he got associated with prominent freedom fighters. 
 
 After his studies, he returned to India and set up his practice in Chennai and later moved to Madurai. When textile mills were starting up in Madurai, George Joseph pioneered the set up of trade unions to ensure that mill workers are not exploited. He also took up the role of editing Motilal Nehru’s newspaper, The Independent, during 1920 – 21 and edited Gandhi’s Young India in 1923. 
 
 George Joseph participated in the Vaikom struggle in Kerala for dalits. When British imposed the Criminal Tribes Act, branding Piranmalai Kallars and Maravar communities in Southern Tamil Nadu, he vehemently opposed the act, campaigning in newspapers and representing the communities in court cases following the Perungamallur firing. As a token of gratitude, the people of these communities called him ‘Rosapoo Durai’. 
 
 After prolonged illness, he died in Madurai on March 5th, 1938 and was laid to rest at the Makalipatti graveyard near Keeraithurai. On his 79th death anniversary, he was remembered by the people for the many causes he worked for during his lifetime. “He is Madurai’s unsung hero, though he was a pioneer in various fields,” said former CPM MLA, N Nanmaran who garlanded his statue at Yanaikal. For his service to the country, the state government should observe his memorial day, giving him a state honour, Nanmaran said. Various political and religious (Christian) outfits garlanded his statue on Sunday.
 
 
