NEW DELHI: Even as it prepares for a nation-wide campaign to inform the Muslim community about the provisions of the Sharia, All India Muslim Personal Law Board ( ) has made it clear that the Board has no plans to challenge or seek review of the recent   judgement on ‘talaq-e-biddat’ (triple talaq). 

 The Board members are of the firm opinion that while they respect the SC judgement as the law of the land, the body has to uphold the Sharia in the context of the validity of triple talaq under the Muslim personal law. However, the Board clarified that under the Muslim personal law, instant talaq is regarded as nothing short of a sin and there is need for social boycott of those who resort to this. 
 
 The Board’s assertions reflect that it is in no mood to go for a review and sees the SC judgement as a “legal position” as of today. At the same time, it does not want any interference in the Muslim personal law from the government. 
 
 One of AIMPLB founders and executive committee member  , who has been at the forefront of articulating the Board’s stand on instant triple talaq and Muslim personal law, rejected the perception that the body was trying to undermine the SC judgement. “The Board is clear that it will follow the SC judgement declaring instant triple talaq as invalid as the law of the land but at the same time it wants to inform and tell Muslim men and women about the Sharia and what it says on the matter. The Sharia recognises the validity of the instant triple talaq but at the same time it is cited to be a sin and hence the Board is encouraging boycott of those who resort to instant talaq,” Faruqui explained.
 
 On the Board’s resolution for a nation-wide campaign to build awareness on Muslim personal law, Faruqui said it is the need of the hour to tell the people that they must boycott those resorting to instant talaq. On the Board’s decision to set up a committee to study the SC judgement, Faruqui said, “The purpose of the Committee is to look into the nuances of the verdict and ensure that when the Board reaches out to create awareness, it is able to explain the legal position as stated by the SC and what the Sharia says.” 
 
 The AIMPLB in its Executive Committee meeting on Sunday in   recorded their respect for the SC judgement, but the resolution stated that “Board’s position as per Sharia applicable to four Sunni schools of thought has been that Talaq-e-Biddat is sinful but valid”. 
 
 The Board also expressed its commitment to carry forward “community reforms on a large scale including advising Qazis, Imams, Maulvis that they should advise the bridegroom that in case of differences leading to talaq, the man shall not pronounce divorce in one sitting”. 
 
 
