Nagpur: After managing to tackle its perennial problem of delay in declaration of results, the Nagpur University has decided to advance its entire examination schedule by at least a month. The objective is to facilitate early declaration of results, streamline admissions process and granting more time for students to study. However, the principals of colleges TOI spoke to opposed the move stating that colleges would get very few days to complete the syllabus. They also pointed out that the university should have taken them into the confidence before announcing such moves. Interestingly, the admissions of some courses like law and BEd are yet to commence.  “We’ve already started working on the reform from the forthcoming winter examinations which would commence from October 3. We plan to complete it in four phases and before December. This would help us in early declaration of results before the new year,” pro-VC Pramod Yeole told TOI. NU also plans to complete the entire summer exams and announce its results before June 30, so that the students could get ample time for seeking admissions in higher courses. “We’re also expediting revaluation results so that students don’t waste an academic year,” he said. In the first phase beginning on October 3, all failure students of yearly pattern would appear while in second stage from October 10, those from semester pattern would appear. The third phase would start from October 24 where fresh semester papers would be conducted, while in last phase exams of courses like BEd and LLB where admissions are stretched till this month, would be held. The university would be enhancing the number of scanners from 60 to 100. “Currently, we can’t scan answer sheets of courses like BA and BCom due to sheer volume of students. Only one-third answer books of these courses are evaluated online while two-third are still checked with manual system. With addition of scanning machines, we could bring these courses entirely under online system. A new hall would be constructed at the exam section where all these 100 scanning machines would be set up,” said Yeole. Principal Forum’s secretary Anjan Naidu said the administration should devise some ways to complete mandatory teaching of 90 days per semester as per the UGC guidelines. “The admissions are still continuing and it’s not possible for the colleges to complete syllabus in such a short span. They should then give some leeway in the 90-day period.” Mahila Mahavidyalaya principal Mrinalini Fadnavis added that NU should come out with a parallel mechanism to complete the syllabus within stipulated period. “It could advance the admissions dates so that colleges should begin classes from July itself, then it would be possible to complete the syllabus. Otherwise, the students would suffer and the quality of education too will be affected.” Yeole pointed out that even teachers find it convenient to evaluate answer books during month-long Diwali vacations. “Otherwise, they need to seek permission from their respective college managements, and many times they don’t get it, as they also have other works to do. Many private colleges didn’t have requisite strength of teachers and therefore, they don’t grant permission for teachers to do evaluation duties. In case of summer exams, if papers are checked after June, colleges don’t want to spare them as admissions season begins at that time,” the pro-VC said. Last date extended In a respite to students and colleges, whose admissions were conducted late, NU extended the deadline for filling up of exam forms till September 20. According Board of Examinations and Evaluation director Neeraj Khaty, this facility was only for those courses whose admissions were delayed. “Forms will be accepted without late fees,” he said. 