HYDERABAD: A day after the charred body of a woman was found at   in Madhapur, police established her identity and confirmed murder. Police said the woman, Sunitha, 32, was a tele-caller with a job portal, monster.com, at Ameerpet and a resident of Bansilalpet. They said   was strangled and set ablaze on Valentine’s Day.

 After her charred body was found, police began scouring for clues at the crime scene. They found Sunitha’s burnt handbag nearby and also stumbled upon a half-brunt plastic packet inside, which helped investigators identify the victim. In the plastic packet, police also found a SIM card.
 
 Sources said Sunitha was dropped near the Secunderabad railway station by her brother on February 14 morning. She was then scheduled to take a bus to reach office at Ameerpet. However, monster.com representatives told police she did report for work on February 14. Suspicion grew she may have met someone in the morning, who murdered her and torched her body at Bhagyanagar Colony. The victim’s protruding tongue proved she was strangulated.
 
 When she did not return home on February 14, Sunitha‘s family members called her office and they were informed about her absence.
 
 “Sunitha, it seems, did not go to office on February 13 too, though she left home on the pretext of going to work. She was doused with kerosene and burnt. Even grass in the vicinity lay scorched. It appears the murder took place on February 14 night and her body was found at 2 pm the next day at a desolate site near Madhapur flyover, which is locally called  ,” a police official told TOI.
 
 Sunitha, a spinster, has three siblings. She did her graduation through distance education mode. Police are scanning CCTV footage from several locations in Secunderabad and Hi-Tec City and also talking to family members and office colleagues for clues on possibility of enmity. It is learnt the family told police that several months ago, they lodged a complaint against a stalker who was harassing the victim.
 
 
