INDORE: The   on Thursday quashed the state government’s acquisition of   to develop the Gems & Jewellery (G&J) park or   near Rau on the outskirts of the city.

  issued the directives on three petitions that had been moved before court by 22 farmers in 2008 to quash the land acquisition proceedings.
 
 The land was acquired from the farmers in 2004 and in 2007 the collector had given the award (a written declaration stating on record the area of land, amount of compensation and apportionment of compensation), according to which the compensation was to be made to the land owners.
 
 However neither did the farmers receive compensation nor did the state take physical possession of the land.
 
 However, in 2013 the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act was implemented. According to this, if the award had been made five years or more prior to this Act coming into effect, but no compensation had been granted to land owners nor was there any physical possession of the land, then the proceedings shall be deemed lapsed.
 
 “Based on this, we argued before the court that since the award was made five years before the commencement of the new act and physical possession had not been taken, the land acquisition proceedings were automatically lapsed,” advocate  , counsel for the farmers, said.
 
 The state government countered this argument saying compensation payments had been made before the reference court. However, the petitioners claimed that they were the beneficiaries of the compensation and that they had not received the amount.
 
 The court admitted the petition and has quashed the land acquisition proceedings by the state for the Diamond Park. According to the law, the state government will now have to initiate the proceedings of land acquisition afresh in accordance with the provisions of the 2013 Act.
 
 The Diamond Park project was conceived in 1995 by the then state government for setting up a cluster comprising diamond cutting and polishing units at a suitable location near Indore.
 
