 and his elder brother were enacting a war scene, inspired by Mahabharata on TV. The divider from his instrument box was hurled as the arrow, which deflected into his right eye after hitting a papaya tree. The boys kept it a secret, scared that a bigger calamity would befall them if it reached dad’s ears. Within two days, the eye became swollen and his mother applied some home remedy. Soon, infection spread to the other eye too and the boy was rushed to the hospital. 

 The doctors pronounced that the vision of the right eye had been lost and that all they could try then was to save the left. The surgery and recuperation consumed a year which meant that Lipin missed most of Class five, a crucial year when the foundation of many subjects were laid.
 
 For every adversity that he faced in early life, Lipin compensated later with an equal measure of achievement, culminating in his selection to the coveted civil services, but the odds were always stacked against him. Born the youngest of three children in a poor family at Naranganam in Pathanamthitta, he did not go to school till the age of seven because his dad thought it more worth his while to look after the cows. “For my father, I was an unwanted child because he never wanted a third child,” says Lipin. What he wanted was to drink from dawn to dusk, borrow from all and sundry and pick quarrels within and outside the house. “There was no choroonu, noolu kettu or ezhuthiniruthu for me,” adds Lipin. Finally, his mother listened to saner advice that at least the boy needed to learn the alphabet and so she sent him to a nearby lower primary school.
 
 As he was recuperating after the accident, he read, with one eye, whatever he could lay his hands on. This helped in polishing his flair for Malayalam language which stood him in good stead later on. In fact, it was a Malayalam teacher who first discovered his genius after a surprise essay assignment and brought him from back bench to the front.
 
 As he reached Class eight, it was by sheer good fortune that he got admission to an aided Christian management school. His dad took him to the school, mistaking it for the government institution nearby, but was persuaded by a friend to enrol Lipin there. The coaching was systematic and teachers gave special attention to Lipin, as he was penniless and disabled. He excelled not only in studies but also in literary activities and emerged as the school topper in Class 10 even though he had failed in maths in the model exam.
 
 For plus two, the principal exempted him from all kinds of fees including the cost of uniform as he was the best outgoing student. He wanted to take humanities but a peon who received the application changed it to science since he thought that stream had more prospects! He struggled with maths and physics but tamed them eventually to score 80% overall. And for Malayalam, he scored 100%, an achievement for which a jeweller gave him a cash prize of `10,000. That came in handy to pay the fees for admission to a degree course in English literature.
 
 Meanwhile, he had cleared the medical entrance exam but needed at least `2.5 lakh to join. When his efforts to procure a bank loan did not succeed, that idea was dropped.
 
 Meanwhile, Lipin was excited to get a call letter came from a college in Thiruvananthapuram for a journalism course. But the Kozhencherry college said their policy did not allow them to return the `10,000 he had paid. So, off he went to the capital with just `500. The principal, a priest who used to teach Malayalam, was impressed that he scored full marks in the subject, and gave instructions to exempt him from all fees. The hunt then began for accommodation and he finally found a room in the outskirts of the city for `400 a month; a makeshift space under a staircase!
 
 Six months into the journalism course, Lipin found a part-time job in a city paper; he would file reports in the night in return for `1,000 a month. Another source of livelihood were the cash prizes for literary competitions; he even set a record by scoring a hat-trick for first prize in short story writing in the university youth fest. Towards the end of the course, he got internships in a TV channel as well as the largest circulated Malayalam daily which even gave him a stipend. Job offers poured in as soon as he finished the course from various banks and public sector organisations as he had appeared for their recruitment tests. Accepting a bank officer’s job, he moved to Kochi, finished his Masters in Malayalam and prepared for the civil service exam. In the second attempt, he got through in June 2013 with a rank of 224.
 
 His fight, however, was far from over. “Though I wrote the exam in the general category, after the medical test, I was categorised as physically handicapped. With my rank, if not the IAS, I should have at least got IPS. But in the physically handicapped section, there were no vacancies for IAS and no eligibility for IPS. So, I was given Indian Railway Personnel Service (IRPS), which is normally allotted for those with 700 to 800 rank in the general category. In fact, I got ten marks more than the last ranked person in the IAS category.”
 
 After an appeal by Lipin, the chief commissioner for disabilities ruled that he be given IAS in the Kerala cadre. Subsequently, he approached the Central Administrative Tribunal but the petition got rejected because three years were over by the time the case came up for hearing and they said it would upset the seniority of so many people. He is now planning to go in appeal to the Delhi High Court.
 
 Meanwhile, he has launched a rare initiative called Best 30, with funds from his own pocket, to identify talented but poor students. The project, organised by a trust called Walk with a Civil Servant, began in Pathanamthitta and now covers several other places including even Saudi Arabia. 
 
 
