NEW DELHI: Affordable hospital chain promoter Dr   has entered the Delhi market, with his group -Narayana Hrudayalaya -tying up with Dharamshila hospital in east Delhi.
 
 Under the partnership, officials said,   will run the hospital while the ownership rights will remain with Dharamshila   Foundation and Research Centre -the trust that runs the 350-bedded cancer hospital.
  
 Dr Shetty confirmed this to TOI. He said: "We have already signed an agreement. NH will be managing this hospital. We plan to upgrade it into a state-of the-art super-specialty tertiary care unit within a year. "At present, Dharamshila hospital only offers oncology treatment.
  
 Located in east Delhi's  , the hospital was started in 1994. It was the first comprehensive cancer care centre of north India when it started, Dr Suvarsha Khanna, executive director of Dharamshila hospital, said. "In the last 10 years, many new cancer centres have come up in the  . So, we felt it is important to expand the hospital into a multispecialty centre. Hence, the decision to tie up with NH," she added.
  
 The Dharamshila hospital in its new avatar will offer cardiac surgeries, liver or kidney transplants and a fullfledged orthopaedic unit. "Dr Shetty is known to offer the best treatment at an affordable cost. He pioneered heart surgeries at low cost in Bangalore. His entry into the Delhi market will certainly shake up the private health players," said an industry expert.
  
 Recently, Narayana Hrudayalaya started a hospital in Jammu that, officials claimed, is doing well. "Our foray into the NCR is in line with our objective of creating a strong cluster there like our existing ones in Karnataka and the eastern region. This opportunity allows us to capitalise on a significant headstart that we get in terms of a hospital with over 20 years' track record of profitable operations in geography of our interest. We shall continue to scout for such meaningful opportunities in north India, which could help cement our presence across the region," Dr Ashutosh Raghuvanshi, vice chairman, managing director and group CEO of Narayana Hrudayalaya Ltd, said.
  
 Narayana Hrudayalaya was founded in Bengaluru in 2000 by Dr Shetty. Today, it has a network of 23 hospitals and seven heart centres across the country, and one in Cayman Islands. It has over 5,600 operational beds across all its centres, with a potential to reach a capacity of over 6,900 beds.
 
 
