For years, the Virani family (Kyunkii... Saas Bhi Kabhi Bahu Thi) ruled the small screen and viewers across the country were glued to their TV sets night after night. Savoring every delicious bit of this saga, Frothy tele soaps became synonymous with Gujarati culture. The state has so much to offer ­ from close family ties, vibrant cultural traditions, literature, delicious food and lots more. Thanks to the vibrancy , Gujarati families have been an inevitable part of Hindi GECs prime time for a long time. In the past, there have been successful shows like Ek Mahal Ho Sapno Ka, Kyunkii... Saas Bhi Kabhi Bahu Thi, Baa Bahoo Aur Baby, Hamari Devrani, Bandini, Mukti Bandhan, Gulaal, Saraswati Chandra and many more that have made Gujarati culture stand strong on prime time of Hindi GECs. And if that is not enough, two shows revolving around Gujarati families -Taarak Mehta Ka Ooltah Chashmah (since 2008) and   (since 2010) ­ have been representing hues of Gujarati family and its culture till date.

  
  
 Why is it that Gujarati backdrop is spotted in many new shows across GECs? What makes Gujarati family based shows tick amongst audience? To this, Manisha Sharma, programming head of a leading GEC shares, “Every culture and backdrop brings with it a set of quirks and distinct qualities which appeal to the viewers' sensibilities.The Gujarati community projects a very unique personality; the colours, vibrancy and grandeur incorporated in not only special celebrations but also everyday life have often connected with the audiences.The endearing qualities of a Gujarati family along with their sense of brotherhood and bonding have consistently made for a good television viewing experience.“
  
  
 So what do actors who are the part of these Gujarat-based shows have to say? To this Keerti Nagpure, who is a part of   says, “Gujaratis are the sweetest people I have met and somewhere they have a strong cultural inclination. There's a lot to learn from Gujaratis ­ be it unity and love for family or the way they celebrate festivals with an élan. So when you spot all of it in the show, it comes vibrantly together and viewers certainly enjoy it.“ Even Jay Soni, who plays Bakool in   says, “There are times when GECs are focusing on other regions but, Gujarati family based shows have always been a talking point. I firmly feel Gujarati flavour on prime time has been evergreen and will never lose its impact. And with my show ­ it is a sitcom clubbed with Gujarati backdrop so viewers are definitely going to enjoy it.“
  
  
 What do soap makers say on versatility of Gujarati family based shows on Hindi GECs? To this, Asitkumarr Modi, producer of Taarak Mehta... shares, “Gujarati culture is colourful -they believe in enjoying festivities and life. Not just that, most Gujarati families are joint ones and they cherish relations -this makes so many elements come together in a story revolving a Gujarati family .“ Even Sumeet Mittal, producer of   says, “Gujaratis are conservative in certain fashion about their culture which helps any maker build a better story and since women have a same voice as that of men within Gujarati culture, it makes viewers enjoy such family sagas on small screen. That's where Gujarati families rake higher popularity and makes it apt as a perfect masala to produce a strong drama.“
 
 Looks like Gujarati legacy back in action on small screen ­ and audience have always enjoyed it on prime time.So as long as it grabs TRPs, it is definitely going to stay. 
 
 
  
  
 
