Nagpur: After failing to evoke any response on his complaints, Wardha’s Agnihotri College principal Dharmendra Mundhada has moved the chancellor’s office seeking intervention on the vice chancellor SP Kane’s reported decision to nominate Rajendra Kakde as dean of science and technology faculty.

 The Nagpur University is yet to appoint full-time deans of the four faculties created following implementation of the new Act. Presently, Maheshkumar Yenkie is holding the additional charge of science and technology while the NU would be appointing a new dean of interdisciplinary studies, that has been necessitated after regrouping of faculties. Kakde is holding the charge of interdisciplinary studies.
 
 However, Mundhada had alleged Chunodkar-Handa type scam against Kakde whose son Ishwar was Bachelor of Pharmacy student. He had also accused Kakde of violating Chancellor’s directives since he allegedly failed to dissociate himself from special task committee when his son was appearing in the exam.
 
 After Mundhada wrote to the VC and Pro-Vice Chancellor Pramod Yeole, he was invited for a discussion. Though initially Mundhada had confirmed that he would be attending the meeting, he failed to turn up at the VC office.
 
 On Thursday, Kane said, “We have invited him for discussion on the issue several times but he failed to turn up. It is wrong to say that the VC didn’t take any action. Calling him for talks was part of the action.”
 
 In his letter, Mundhada has claimed that despite his petition against Kakde pending before the Chancellor pertaining to gross abuse of authority under Section 9(3)(b) of Maharashtra Public Universities Act, 2016, the vice chancellor is likely to hand over the charge of dean of science faculty to Kakde.
 
 Against the backdrop of Mundhada’s complaints, the NU’s approach on dean appointment has raised questions. There was also buzz that Kakde would be nominated as dean of science faculty.
 
 On Sunday, Kane had told TOI that the new dean would be named on Monday. But, the NU held back the announcement and said it would take a couple of days to finalize the names.
 
 On Thursday, Kane again said the announcement would be made on Monday.
 
 (With inputs from Megha Tiwari)
 
 
