KOCHI: The   has upheld state government’s decision to impose   on hospitals that provide rooms for patients at Rs1,000 or more. Rooms in most   in Kerala are priced above Rs1,000.

 A division bench of the court dismissed the challenge raised to the levying of luxury tax after considering an appeal filed by Chalissery, Palakkad based Rajah Healthy Acres Pvt Ltd, which operates a hospital. The tax was levied by introducing an amendment to Kerala Tax on Luxuries Act of 1976 through Kerala Finance Act of 2008.
 
 Citing a   decision of 2005 (Godfrey Phillips India Ltd vs. State of UP), the high court said an activity of indulgence or enjoyment that is costly or which is generally recognized as beyond the necessary requirements of an average number of society can be considered as luxury. Availing a private room satisfies the test of luxury laid down by the apex court as it is intended to provide comfort and pleasure beyond the requirements of the constitutive facilities of a hospital, which includes food, medicine, professional services, and a basic accommodation, the judgment said.
 
 Dismissing the contention of the appellant that Rs1,000 is very meagre and would not qualify as a luxury, it cannot meddle with the limit set by the legislature. Such a limit was set by the legislature based on the relevant social and economic parameters of the people of the state, the court said.
 
 Explaining the reasoning behind the ruling, the court said in the judgment, “The term luxury has been defined to exclude all the essential components of healing and care given by the hospital and includes only that which is not essential to such therapeutic care or healing. The legislature obviously thought that such accommodation and amenities beyond the pecuniary limit of Rupees one thousand can be classified as luxury and it is not something that the courts can interfere with merely because the perception which it holds, even it does, that such pecuniary limits are too low in order to classify as a luxury. We have to be aware of the fact that the legislature legislates for all the people of the State. It is intended to cater to all the classes in the socio-economic and cultural categories of people and it should be presumed that such legislation has been made taking into account all the relevant criterion including the economic one so as to cater not to a particular class but the entire citizenry. Legislation stems from the experience of the evils and should not, therefore, be impeded by the particular beliefs or opinion that certain classes of people would hold. The wisdom of legislature has to be respected as being for the good of the citizenry at large and not to the sentiments of a few.”
 
