AJMER: The   of   turned into police fortress on Wednesday. Heavy police force was deployed in the village and on roads leading to the village from Didwana, Kuchaman, Nagaur and Jaipur and Churu. Sixteen check posts were erected to beef up security arrangements.

 Since morning, inspector general of police Malini Agarwal along with Nagaur SP Parish Deshmukh and other officials were taking round to monitor the situation. Every vehicle reaching the last barricade on the outskirts of the village was videographed and internet services of every mobile company were blocked on Monday evening. There was no communication by any network and, therefore, organizer of the condolence programme, was ‘helpless’ in monitoring their groups reaching the spot.
 
 According to officials, police forces were directed not to take strict action against any protester or member coming to the village. “At any cost, no first step from police side to damage the situation was the order,” said an official.
 
 The aim of police is to damage control rather than destroying it.
 
 According to police, there were more than 3,000 cops in the radius of 30 kilometre including local police of Nagaur, RAC (Rajasthan Armed Constabulary), STF (Special Task Force) and QRT (Quick Response Team).
 
 Looking at the aggression in Rajput community, the state government has deputed mostly Rajput police officials and police personnel in the village so that situation doesn’t worsen.
 
 Police remained alert and as there was no internet or mobile network and wireless system was used on every check post and by every team deputed for the assignment. 
 
 “Monitoring and controlling is the major work for police to check the large number of people pouring in village,” said a police official.
 
 Police in morning also sealed the borders of Jodhpur, Bikaner, Churu, Ajmer and Sikar. “We had already imposed Section 144 of CRPC to control any misuse of mob mentality,” added an official. 
 
 But police sources accepted that besides so many measures, Rajput community members were pouring in the village since Tuesday evening.
 
 
