KOCHI: With theft of public property becoming common in government schools and some campuses turning a haven for anti-socials, the corporation is planning to install surveillance cameras in schools under it as part of a pilot project.

 The cameras will be installed at  ,   in Chittoor Road, Mattancherry Girls Higher Secondary School and Government Higher Secondary School in Edappally. A minimum eight cameras will be installed on the premises including front gates and corridors of each school. Anti-socials breaking window panes, laboratory equipment and benches, scribbling on walls and stealing computers and laptops are posing a headache for officials. “Since there are no security guards in government schools, anti-socials breaking into class rooms is a problem. We have lost some laptops. We hope installing cameras on the premises and corridors will help us identify persons who trespasses into the school compound,“ said Jijo John, principal of SRV Government VHSS. To prevent people from disconnecting the cameras, armoured cable will be used to ensure uninterrupted functioning of CCTVs. These devices will have back up for one month. The company which will install the cameras will have to do maintenance work for next two years. Since the Government Girls Higher Secondary School in Chittoor road is situated close to Ernakulam Junction railway station, strangers often break into the compound during night.
 
 “We are fed up with the nuisance posed by anti-socials in the school. Every day some yougsters wait outside the school compound to enter the campus when we leave in the evening. Even today I teased some yougsters who were found waiting to enter the compound. Some   leave behind empty alcohol bottles in front of class rooms and break drinking water taps. Every morning bottles and broken glass have to be removed from the compound,“ said Sakunthala K, principal of Mattancherry GHSS.
 
 Corporation will also set up sanitary napkin vending machines in government schools above upper primary level. The cost for installing cameras in four schools and erecting napkin vending machines is estimated to be Rs 25 lakh.
 
