 

  Ahmedabad was recently rated as one of the safest cities in India. On International Women's Day, Ahmedabad Times speaks to Amdavadis to find out why they find the city safe. "I feel the city is safe because women can travel late at night. I think one of the main reasons is because of the alcohol ban that rules out many reasons of teasing. I belong to Lucknow and in those parts you don't see girls out after dusk. Coming to   was a cultural shock for me as here we could safely go home late at night after the shows. I travel a lot but in Ahmedabad I feel at home," says Sanjukta Sinha, dancer. Constant police patrolling in the evening helps in ensuring safety. Riverfront is one of the biggest examples of women finding the city safe. Though the park shuts down at 7 pm, the roads are still accessible and there are women cops too on these stretches. “While on sets I feel safe because of the kind of respect men give to women here. Another major reason of the city being safe is that women are aware about their rights,”  , actor. Legal awareness also plays an important role. People are also ready to help here in Ahmedabad in case of need. “I have always felt it's the safest cities to live in and though ban on alcohol is one of the main reasons. The people in the city are quite open," says Anita Purswani, actor. Anita also agrees the women in the city do not need to give a second thought before venturing out late at night and the families feel safe too. Having people on the streets till late night also helps a lot. “Like IIM stretch or the CEPT gali always has groups of friends or families. Now with the onset of summer it will become all the more happening with many going out to have an ice-cream or gola,” says Anita. Also loitering in the city has come up in a big way in the city. Groups of girls now enjoy in public spaces to celebrate a birthday,or mark an occasion. Esha Kansara, actor, says, “I firmly feel women have to be equally alert and responsible when it comes to their own safety and security. Whenever I am travelling alone, I keep my friends or family posted and use tracking apps so that they know about my location. The good part about Ahmedabad is that people don't tease women even if she is travelling alone. But I'd still say women need to take precautions.”
 
 
 
  Having stayed in Mumbai and New York, I feel Gujarat is safest. There’s absolutely nothing for any woman to feel insecure here. Having said that, I ensure that I behave responsibly and keep my friends and parents updated about my whereabouts while commuting late in the city
 
 
 
 People in the city are educated and women are also vocal about everything which makes a lot of difference. 
 
 
 
 I feel the city is very safe because women can travel late at night. I think one of the main reasons is because of the alcohol ban. 
 
 
 
 The good part about Ahmedabad is that people don't tease women even if they are travelling alone.
 
