Visakhapatnam: In a first of its kind initiative in educational institutions of Andhra Pradesh, Andhra University has generated geographic information system-based maps of the university.

 The 2D-based GIS mapping, developed by the geo-engineering department of the varsity, aggregated digital photographic data and physical features of each building, drainage system, road network, speed-breakers, utility poles and other utilities of the varsity. With 120 buildings for academic, administrative and other support services, the university campus is spread over about 400 acres. Speaking to TOI, professor P Jagadeeswara Rao from the department of geo-engineering said that seed of the project was sowed nearly five months ago when the university hosted a two-day national workshop, “Recent Trends in GIS with Special Reference to Mobile GIS and Crowdsourcing” in February this year. “Several eminent personalities, including retired directors from the Geological Survey of India (GSI) attended the workshop and extended their technical knowledge to the participants on GIS system,” said Rao.
 
 Rao added that retired GSI director Vundavalli Ravi Kumar motivated them to take up the GIS mapping project. “He trained AU students in the intricacies of GIS mapping and assisted the faculty of the department to specialise their knowledge in the domain. HTML coding was given to the GIS data to integrate it with the varsity’s website. The data was solely collected by the students of the department. The GIS mapping was launched by Vice-Chancellor and Registrar on July 18,” said Prof Rao.
 
 However, the officials are not satisfied with the two-dimensional GIS mapping and said that they will embark on collecting digital aerial photographic data with a suitable swath for 3D mapping and processing to interpret and digitalise the physical features from the photographs.
 
 “This massive exercise is expected to be an effective tool for analysing and displaying thematic maps of all the structures and infrastructure of the varsity. This digitalisation process also envisages to provide the website visitors a fly-through experience as if they are inside the buildings and walking in the rooms. This will be a value addition to the existing website and the prospective students can have a look how the varsity looks like without necessarily coming to the varsity,” said Prof Rao.
 
 
