NASHIK: Janics Robinson, who was recognised by   for her mastery in   in 2003 and is currently an advisor to the royal wine cellar, is all praises for the Nashik wine.

 International wine professional and Master of Wine   recently visited the wineries of Nashik and tasted wine there. 
 
 “I am following the fortune of India’s wine industry. As part of this, I visited three wineries in the   of the country and tasted the wine here. Nashik houses well-established wine production units and is producing good quality wine,” said Robinson, wine master and officer of British Empire OBE MW.
 
 In the last two years, the proportion of foreign tourists visiting the wineries in Nashik has increased from 5% to 8%. 
 
 A five-star hotel in the city took the opportunity to promote wine tourism by inviting the team of wine professionals along with Jancis Robinson to their hotel for a wine and dine.
 
 General manager of the hotel,Vinod Pandey said, “We have been promoting Nashik-made wine by conducting events every year in Hyderabad and Mumbai. As part of this initiative, we hosted a dinner for five international wine professionals from the US and  , including Jancis Robinson. They also visited three wineries in the city during their one-day stay with us.” 
 
 At the vineyards, the team of wine experts were shown how the Nashik wine is produced. Associate vice-president (hospitality) of a vineyard, Monit Dhavale said, “On an average, around 1,000 visitors visit our wineries daily. They also taste wine in a tasting room. Apart from the tourists who come from across the country, there are many foreigners who come down too. Around 8% of the total wine tourists are foreigners. Two years back, the quantum of foreigners was around 5%, which is now 8%. Most foreign tourists who visit India, definitely drop by the wine capital of the country.”
 
 Nashik’s wine is also going to be displayed at the world’s biggest food & beverage expo in Bangkok, for which a documentary is being shot, which will be screened at the five-day expo, starting on May 31.
 
 Known for producing grape and onions at large in the country, the city has emerged as the wine capital and wine tourism hub of the country due to a large number of wineries and the pleasant climate.
 
