PATNA: The Patna district administration has decided to hold motivational classes in government school from first week of August.

 Patna DM   said on Tuesday the officials will hold a meeting with schools on Friday to decide the schedule of classes. To begin with, an hourlong motivational and life lesson for secondary and senior secondary students will start from the first week of August. “It will be conduct once in a month in more than 60 secondary and senior secondary schools in Patna. We have 70 officials in the district to take this lesson,” he said.
 
 “Apart from motivating the students, the officials will give career counselling session to students who can discuss their problems in their respective schools and other study-related issues. These classes will be conducted without disrupting the regular classes of the school,” Agarwal said.
 
 Agarwal on January 27 had interacted with some students on experimental basis. “The motivational classes were not continued because of the annual exams in schools. This time, the administration will ensure that there is no gap while conducting the special classes,” said Agarwal.
 
 Around 100 students of Class XI of all streams of Bankipore Girl’s High School attended his class. He motivated the students to study hard to achieve their goals. He had also announced that such classes would be conducted in all schools once in a while.
 
 The administration is also planning to rope in the retired IAS and IPS and income tax officials. “If they want to devote sometime and help the students in deciding their future course, they are welcome. For that, the administration will issue a notice and a helpline number and they can become a part of this initiative,” he said.
 
 Agarwal said the administration would allot them the nearest school from their locality. “They can give lessons on weekly basis while the administration officials will take classes once in a month,” he added. A meeting to finalize the initiative would be conducted by the administration within a few days.
 
 
