KOLKATA: If everything moves as per plan, container trucks from docks at Kidderpore port could bypass the city while ferrying the cargo to the northern fringes or to Howrah across the Hooghly!

 A Howrah-based company has entered into an agreement with an Italian firm that specialises in roll-on-roll-off (RoRo) vessels that can carry 20-100 fully laden trucks. The proposal has the potential to solve the traffic congestion problem along Diamond Harbour Road, Kidderpore Road and   by taking Howrah-bound trucks from Kolkata port off these roads.
 
 Presenting the project memo to transport minister   at the   on Saturday, Suman Forwarding Agency (SFA) chief executive officer Amitesh Singh said his company would initially set up five jetties —three along the western bank of the Hooghly and two on the Kolkata side — where barges would dock for trucks to drive into them at one bank and off it at the other.
 
 “Container trucks will simply roll on to the vessel that would then go across the river while also moving up or down stream. It is like the passenger ferry service. Only, it will be carrying 20 to 100 loaded trucks,” said Singh. The travel time from one jetty to the other will be 45-60 minutes. 
 
 Italian firm CSA spa, part of the Centralfin group, will supply the vessels that specialise in ferrying cargo trucks. Company president and CEO   said the smaller vessels capable of carrying up to 20 trucks cost Rs 7 crore while the larger vessels with a capacity of 100 trucks cost Rs 35-40 crore. The investment at each jetty will be Rs 40-50 lakh.
 
 SFA and CSA have signed a memorandum of understanding. SFA will initially charter two vessls, one capable of carrying 20-25 trucks and the other 100 trucks to undertake trial runs in three-four months. Once the service takes off, SFA plans to get the vessels manufactured at ship-building facilities in India. Once it has enough number of vessels on the river, the frequency of service from each jetty will be 45 minutes.
 
 “We will first do the Kidderpore-Sankrail service and then add Baidyabati and   on the western bank and Cossipore on the eastern bank,” said Singh. At these places, SFA will lease around 1 acre from Kolkata Port Trust to set up the jetty and create a parking space for 40-50 trucks.
 
 Though fares for RoRo have not been computed, it is likely to be in the range of Rs 800-1,000 for a fully laden truck to cross over and half that for an empty truck. Singh says it will entail a saving of nearly Rs 2,500-3,000 a trip for truckers as they save on fuel cost, tyre wear and tear as well as saving idle time during the day when trucks are not allowed to ply in the city. “Above all, it will also reduce pollution in the city,” he added.
 
 
