JALANDHAR: A private bus operator who runs a luxury bus service between   has alleged that his bus staff was being harassed by staff of   and that one of his buses was also damaged on Sunday near Rajpura.

 Addressing a press conference on Monday, Anand Moudgil, owner of  , alleged that though his staff reported the matter to the police, no case was registered against the accused. He has alleged that to hurt his business, Indo-Canadian company even ran their service for free for a few days but the trick didn’t work.
 
 Officials of Indo-Canadian have, however, rubbished the allegations. Indo-Canadian Transport Company manager Hardeep Kumar Arora alleged that Moudgil’s men had attacked him on Sunday evening about which he has  . “When they started their bus service I even invited them to jointly work out a timetable but they refused. They indulged in hooliganism with me and my staff at Delhi airport. They are levelling false allegations for publicity,” he said. He refuted the allegation that Indo-Canadian plied buses free to damage the new entrant in the field.
 
 Arora also rejected claims of Moudgil that Indo Canadian is owned by the “Badals” and said there was no truth in the claims.
 
 Moudgil alleged that on Sunday evening when his two buses reached near Shambu border after crossing Rajpura, an Indo-Canadian bus waylaid his buses and then around a dozen persons started breaking the windowpanes. “The windscreen and side glasses were smashed and drivers and conductors were beaten up,” he alleged. He claimed that his staff submitted a complaint to the concerned police station but no action was taken.
 
 He said he had sent complaints to the Prime Minister’s Office, Union home ministry, Punjab DGP and Chief Justice of India. He also said that state transport department went out of its way to cancel his permits and he secured a stay order from Punjab and Haryana high court on December 15. He has also lodged a complaint with the Delhi police about harassment at the airport there.
 
