Nagpur: With an aim to make the city completely free of mishaps, Accident Free Nagpur (AFN) committee was installed at Hindi Mor Bhavan on Monday.

 Raju Wagh, founder president of Jeevan Suraksha Prakalpa who is the brains behind the committee, said, “Only speaking about turning Nagpur into an accident-free city won’t produce results. Contribution of public is a vital element. Our objective is not only to save people affected by mishaps but to prevent accidents entirely. 90% of accidents occur due to our own mistakes and stopping it is necessary.”
 
 Wagh talked about ways of involving public into this campaign and hammer the importance of following traffic rules into the heads of the citizens. On the contribution of youth, he said, “Youngsters are well aware of technology and can suggest measures to execute our project. Hence, their involvement will play a significant role.”
 
 Later, mayor Nanda Jichkar installed the newly formed committee and accepted the post of the president. Other than Jichkar, the team comprises Wagh as working president, Ajay Dabir as general secretary, Ravindra Deshpande and Shivcharan Sagne as treasurers and Nishant Birla as co-head, along with 12 vice-presidents, 7 secretaries, 2 office-heads, 6 youth heads and 4 contact heads.
 
 Jichkar said, “Youngsters nowadays are more prone to accidents. A sense of responsibility needs to be inculcated among them and it is the duty of their parents. Wagh’s model to stop accidents extensively involves youth. Once it is successful, we can have an accident-free nation.”
 
 Thereafter, all the team members as well as the audience stood up and took a pledge to make following traffic rules a way of life.
 
 Regional transport officer Sharad Jichkar, Dr Sanjeev Jaiswal, deputy director of health department, and Harshawardhan Gokhale, former principal and vice-president of AFN, were also present on the occasion. They appreciated Wagh for his initiative and motivated everyone to follow his footsteps to make this dream come true.
 
 (Reporting by 
 
 Tanuja Ratnaparkhi)
 
 
