BENGALURU: The high court on Monday dismissed a PIL filed by a Chennai-based social activist, who sought a prohibition on Tamil Nadu ministers visiting   general secretary Sasikala, currently lodged at   in the city. The petition, filed by 'Traffic' Ramaswamy, 83, famous for taking up public causes, also requested that the court shift Sasikala to women's prison in  , 70km from the city. 

 After the government advocate pointed out that the jail authorities at Parappana Agrahara were strictly adhering to the prison manual in allowing visitors, a division bench headed by Chief Justice Subhro Kamal Mukherjee dismissed the PIL.
 
 The court observed that it couldn't monitor such activities inside the prison. "If somebody wants to talk to an individual lodged in jail, how can the court examine that?" the court asked.
 
 Ramaswamy's laywer, however, contended that Tamil Nadu ministers were receiving their instructions from Sasikala, and said that the the deputy speaker of the Lok Sabha Thambidurai, a senior AIADMK leader had expressed reservations about the same.
 
 Declining to accept the plea, the bench said, "Vote them out."
 
  
 
 
  A petition filed by three police inspectors in connection with the proceedings initiated against them for allegedly assaulting a man while testing for drunken driving was dismissed by the high court on Monday. The three cops, two of whom are women, have been charged with destruction of evidence, robbery, and assault among others. The incident in question occurred on September 27, 2008. 
 
 The three officials - CID inspector Geetha Kulkarni, State Crime Records Bureau MC Kavitha and Nandini Layout KV   - were on routine patrol on the stretch of   at Koramangala when the incident occurred. The complainant, Kripalani was allegedly returning from a dinner, and was accompanied by two friends, when the car he was riding in was flagged down by the cops. An altercation ensued, and Kripalani was subsequently taken to the   police station, where he alleged he was beaten.
 
 Dismissing the petition, Justice John Micahel Cunha said, "Admittedly, the complainant (Kripalani) was not driving the car, and there's nothing on record to show that the driver of the car was drunk. The accused were not deputed to apprehend the complainant or inquire into any complaint against him."
 
 Kripalani alleged that Geetha instructed one of the other co-accused to confiscate his mobile phone. "Police locked me up in a cell acting on the instructions of Sridhara, and removed my blood-stained clothes to destroy any evidence," the complaint read.
 
 Kripalani, too, was booked for assault, but was subsequently released on bail. Nearly ten days after the incident, he underwent a surgery to get a fracture in his nasal bone, which he reportedly sustained at the police station, fixed.
 
