CHENNAI: Even as the   at   continues to be mired in a bureaucratic tussle between   and Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) as well as red tape,   is moving fast to fill the void.

 CMRL has allotted an exclusive space for a food plaza and shopping mart at both the underground Central metro station and the Central square, which will come up opposite the   (MMC), the suburban railway terminal beside Chennai Central station.
 
 The development comes after Ratna Cafe, the contractor which won a tender to build a food plaza in between Chennai Central and MMC, pulled out of the project last month. The site originally tendered in 2014 was in the new concourse of Chennai Central, but last year an alternative site near MMC was given. Officials involved in the project said this was done keeping in mind the development of the area as a Central square, which would help the contractor get similar footfalls at the plaza if it were inside Central. The food plaza was supposed to be started by the summer of 2015, but remains bogged down. It will take Railways at least six months to identify a new contractor, sources said. More than five lakh peo ple throng both Central and MMC terminals every day and this number is expected to go up once the Central square comes up.
 
 The CMRL food plaza, officials said, will not just cater to metro rail commuters, but also passersby or anyone who is waiting to catch a bus in Central square. CMRL has also planned two seven-deck underground parking spaces for commuters and visitors.It is likely to be ready by mid-2018.
 
 A metro rail official said the underground central metro will have a space about 100m long and 33m wide for commercial purposes at the station's ticketing level.
 
 “We will also have the en tire area on the road level around the station's entry point for commercial purposes.More people will walk in since Central station does not have such facilities,“ said an official recently during a visit to the Central metro station.
 
