Nagpur: The   under chief minister   has decided to give big push to  . On Friday, he conducted whirlwind tour of the district and personally handed over the land for sponge iron plant of Lloyds Metals and Energy Limited coming up at Konsari village in Ashti town.

 “The company would be making big investment in the backward area in two phases and it would provide huge employment to the farmers,” he told TOI, adding that water and power supply to farmers along with the employment was his government’s top priority for Gadchiroli.
 
 Lloyds announced adoption of Allapalli ITI for providing skill and training to the youths. He also distributed cheques to the farmers, who provided their lands for the plant.
 
 Earlier, while speaking at a function in high court auditorium, Fadnavis termed the development as a dream come true. “Since last 40-50 years, we were hearing that giants like Tata and Bhilai Steel Plant were keen on exploring rich mineral wealth in Gadchiroli by setting up processing plants. But due to naxal menace, no one dared to come, so far. Today, we have started a new beginning by handing over the land for sponge iron plant. Only development can end the Maoist violence in the district and all villagers I met were in total support of the government,” he said. 
 
 During his tour of Gadchiroli, the CM visited the interior areas and interacted with the villagers. He held a meeting with CRPF and state police officials to review security situation. He took a review of various schemes, including Jal Yukt Shivar, farm ponds, PM Awas Yojana, crop loans, Swachh Bharat and long pending Wadsa-Gadchiroli railway line project. He directed taluka level officials to finish all remaining work by June 30.
 
 Fadnavis also chaired a meeting at Allapalli to review various flagship programmes and projects with guardian minister Raje Ambarishrao Atram. He visited stalls of local bamboo products made by artists from the region at   office.
 
 Later at Chamorshi, he interacted with girl students at Bamanwadi village and also with locals in Bamanpeth. He also inspected work for Malgujari Talao and gave work orders for wells to five farmers.
 
 For touring the backward district, he skipped two of his scheduled events in Narkhed and Katol and also arrived late by one and half hours at a function to felicitate junior lawyers at HC auditorium.
 
