It is a moment of celebration for Kannada film industry’s top producer-distributor duo   and   as their dream of working with   is finally set to unfold on the big screen on May 19. Bangaara s/o   is the outcome of five years of waiting to find the apt story for this collaboration between Jayanna Combines and Shivarajkumar — one among the most bankable stars of the Kannada film industry.
“When we began our career as distributors 15 years ago, Annavaru (Dr Rajkumar) was very much around. It would have been wonderful to have worked with him but unfortunately, that did not happen. While we turned producers, and we did work with Annavaru’s youngest son Puneeth   for two films, we have been waiting to work with Shivarajkumar for five years. It was important for us to find the perfect story for this collaboration and that came to us through director  ,” says Jayanna.
 While the story and the title fell in place, the producer duo tell us, “It is with great conviction that we say that Shivajkumar is a real hero, even off screen. He is a producer’s hero — a trait you will not find in many actors. Take for instance the fact that while producers shell out money for bringing in expensive shooting equipment, there are times when that goes unused on the set for that day. This is technically of no concern to the cast on the set. But Shivarajkumar is the only actor who notices these things and even points out that we are wasting money, and ensures such wastage does not take place. It is also another matter that he is the most punctual actor you will find. He is there on time and does not leave the set till the team has completed shooting all that has been planned for the day. His dedication to his profession and craft inflicts these qualities in everybody else on the set and that inspires everybody to follow suit. A film that features over 40 mainstream actors would have taken us over a 100 days to shoot. But because of Shivarajkumar and his contagious passion, we were able to wrap up within 65 days. Other actors have a lot to learn from Shivarajkumar on how to be a true hero.”
 The latter half of the title of the film Bangaara s/o Bangarada Manushya refers to the hit Kannada film that starred Shivarajkumar’s father Dr Rajkumar in the lead role. “The story line has nothing to do with the previous film, but the name of that film is included in the title because of the personality and characterisation that the two actors — father and son share. This film, however, is relevant to society today at many levels. Be it the plight of farmers, the advent of technology in the IT and BT sectors, politics and of course the comedy and emotional connect — all of this comes together for a wholesome entertainer,” say the producer duo who also say that this film would not have been possible without some of their key technicians — director Yogi, Effects Rajan, film editor Deepu S Kumar, cinematographer Jai Anand, fight choreographer   and music director V Harikrishna, who they consider as the backbone of this team. 
 
