GURUGRAM: The enforcement wing of the department of town and country planning ( ) on Tuesday demolished more than 100 temporary and permanent unauthorised structures built in community and green areas in Shushant Lok -3, Sector-57. The   drive was carried out after a petition was filed before the   ( ), seeking demolition of illegal structure in green areas in Sushant Lok-3.

 Apart from a large number of labour hutments, the DTCP also demolished a cricket academy that is built in the sites marked for a community centre. Besides this, a shop and a car shed constructed over the site earmarked for an open space were also demolished. District town planner (enforcement) Rajendra Sharma said the DTCP had removed several illegal structures and the remaining area would be cleared in next few days. “We cleared some of the area and restored them to its original form as per the approved map. The remaining area will be cleared in coming days,” said Sharma.
 
 “Tuesday’s drive was carried out owing to delinquency of the coloniser. The show cause notice and other necessary directives were issued to the coloniser, but it did not remove the encroachments by its own. Hence, the action against the encroachments was necessary in order to apprise the NGT of the next date of hearing which is October 10,” said assistant town planner (ATP) Amit Madholia.
 
 Advocate Yatish Goel, who had filed a case against the developer in NGT, said all encroachments were not cleared. “During the inspection carried out by officials of DTCP and the ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEF&CC) in February, around 10 illegal borewells were found in the area. None of these borewells, which are being used for commercial purposes, were sealed by the department,” Goel said, adding that the developer had constructed its site office in the green area, but it was left untouched.
 
 The case was filed before the NGT in June 2016 against the developer, alleging illegal sale of land earmarked for green space in Sushant Lok-3.
 
