SHAHJAHANPUR: Tilhar is celebrating the return of its ‘kunwar’.  , the former   and member of Parliament from Shahjahanpur, has returned to his roots and is hoping his people will help him debut as a  .

 Prasad’s   is not entirely by chance. It is part of a planned strategy by the Congress high command to ramp up its numbers in the UP assembly. Former MPs, it was decided, would enjoy greater clout over smaller assembly segments, and would stand a better chance of winning. Shahjahanpur district, with its association with the Prasada family going back to the late 19th Century, when Jitin’s great grandfather Pandit Jwala Prasada was the reigning zamindar, was therefore regarded as a relatively easy seat for the local scion to win. 
 
 And Tilhar, less than 30 kilometres from ‘Baba Saheb’ Jitendra Prasada’s mansion in Shahjehanpur town, still remains the seat of power for the landed family. At public meetings he has addressed, he’s emphasized he only had to leave Shahjehanpur after the 2004 Lok Sabha polls because the seat was reserved following the delimitation exercise in 2008. But though he moved to Dhaurahra, from he was elected MP and then appointed minister, his heart, he says, remained in Shahjehanpur, and he returned at the first available opportunity. 
 
 “Jitin ji’s return to Tilhar has brought back the VIP status to the region. Most families, regardless of their political affiliations, owe their loyalties to the kothi. He stands a good chance of winning,” said Salim Khan, a chemist in Tilhar.
 
 Perceived as the favoured one among those contesting, Prasada, however, is invading a BSP fief, and the going won’t be entirely easy. Though the incumbent BSP MLA Roshan Lal Verma has defected to the BJP camp and faces considerable anti-incumbency, BSP chief Mayawati has found a replacement in Awadhesh Verma, seen to be putting up a good fight against Prasada backed by the local Jatav population in the constituency.
 
 Old family loyalties have also seen support emerge for Prasada from unexpected quarters. Former BJP state minister Kovid Singh is backing him, as is former BJP legislator Devendra Pal Singh. “Their loyalty is to the kothi, not to the party. Regardless of which symbol Jitin ji contests on, he will be backed by these people because they owe a great deal to the family,” said Nathuram Dubey, a dhaba owner in Tilhar. 
 
 Backed by the SP-Congress pre-poll alliance, Prasada has also managed to consolidate a large chunk of the backward, Brahmin and minority votes in his favour. His clout, locals say, will also benefit the Congress-SP candidates in the neighbouring constituencies; Tanveer Ahmed, the SP candidate in Shahjahanpur city, who is pitted against BJP’s seven-time MLA Suresh Khanna, and SP’s Rajesh Yadav in Katra, where he faces a close contest against BSP’s Rajeev Kashyap and BJP’s Vikram Singh, the son of a former Congressman.
 
 The Brahmin scion is also having to contend with the BJP campaign blitzkreig in Shahjahanpur – Union ministers Rajnath Singh and Smriti Irani, and Yogi Adityanath – campaigning in the region over the past few days, harping on the Congress riding a “punctured” cycle. In comparison to the BJP biggies, Congress has sent in no reinforcements to help Prasada’s candidature. While vice-president   was not scheduled to campaign in Tilhar, UP Congress chief Raj Babbar, whose “star” status had caused considerable excitement, also cancelled his rally at the eleventh hour. Prasada, it seems, is to be Tilhar’s candidate and star campaigner, all by himself.
 
 
