Lucknow: The   on Wednesday termed the   as “statistical gimmickry” and dismissed the emphasis on transparency in   as a joke. Senior party leaders said the Budget lacks any scheme that could directly generate employment for youth or provide a boost to farmers and traders.

 “The cap of Rs2,000 cash donation will have no bearing at all in terms of transparency in political funding,” said SP spokesperson Udaiveer Singh. It is as poor a joke as the BJP’s promise of flushing out black money through demonetization, he said, adding that it would have been better if political funding was made mandatory through banks only. 
 
 Taking on the BJP-led NDA government at the Centre for not addressing the problems of job creation and loan waiver to farmers, he said the Centre has instead prepared to offer easier loans to them. “When they are already in debt and lack means to clear old loans, such schemes will push them into the loan trap even further,” he said. 
 
 Meanwhile, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief   trashed the Budget as   and one which promises no relief to crores of jobless youth, farmers and the poor. In a statement issued on Wednesday, the former UP chief minister said that the relief to the middle and lower middle class in the form of tax exemption was an attempt to offer a dole on one hand and on the other, tax the same cross-section heavily in the form of fees and taxes on digital transactions.
 
 She said the tax cut on personal income was a clear attempt to lure the middle and lower middle class in the assembly elections that were going to be held in five states, the people will not fall in the Centre’s trap as the BJP-led NDA government has failed to deliver on all fronts during the last three years. “The Centre has done nothing for the farmers and the poor. On the other hand, they had talked about giving more powers to educational institutions in their Budget speech, but the fact is that interference of the Centre has increased in these institutions during the present regime,” she said.
 
 Senior Congress leader and spokesperson Virendra Madan said, “The Congress party supports transparency in funding. Even when the Election Commission raised the issue of funding, we stood in support of complete transparency.”
 
 
