KOLKATA: These are testing times for   in the city. And for nightlife to go on, clubs are changing the rules of the game — they are finding ways to stay afloat in the face of stiff competition from new places opening almost every month.

 The mantra at most city night haunts is “innovate, re-brand, remodel”. Also, relaxing dress codes and restructuring entry charges are going a long way in ensuring a steady footfall in times of cutthroat competition.
 
 In the past two years, at least 20 clubs have been re-branded, remodelled or completely revamped.
 
 According to Vikram Puri, owner of the newly opened Phoenix at The Astor on  , it is all about keeping up with the changing times. Phoenix has replaced Plush, which was quite popular as a sip-dance-jazz venue for over seven years. “Plush was one of our first ventures in hospitality, and we were able to turn it into one of the best venues for nightlife entertainment in the city. After seven years, we decided that the place needed a makeover as times have changed, and we wanted to give Kolkata something new,” Puri says.
 
 Phoenix, he says, has a distinct identity of its own in terms of interiors, events, music and the menu. “This will not only help us retain our old loyalists, but also create a whole bunch of patrons,” he adds.
 
 Cut to the early 2000s, and nightclubs used to be places targeted for the 18-35 age group, where families feared to tread. The concept is now changing fast, with clubs making space — both literally and figuratively — for big groups and, yes, families. “I think the city needs places that are more chilled-out, where you can enjoy your drink over a conversation and eat good food. No one wants to only dance, drink and then go out to eat dinner. Now, it’s all happening at the same venue,” Puri says.
 
 Nitish Saraf of Tipsy Bull on   feels that the taste of patrons is always “evolving”, and they are always trying to do something new. Tipsy Bull previously used to be a nightclub called Palazzo. After entertaining guests for two years, owner Saraf decided to re-brand it to attract more people between the age group of 25 and 38, the section that spends the most. “People are picky and always want to be at the newest and hottest locations. This requires a club to constantly innovate, constantly re-brand, remodel and shift direction. People are always looking for something new,” Saraf believes.
 
 People from this age group — 25 to 38 — are the biggest spenders. “Their disposable income is high and they don’t mind paying more for quality. The goal is to attract more members of this group by dropping the appearance of stuffiness and offering lots of activities and attractive offers,” says Sudhir Ahuja of Bakstage, a popular live music destination.
 
 A couple of reasons — last November’s demonetisation in particular and the sluggish financial condition in general — has clobbered the industry. In the initial phase of demonetisation, people had cut down big time on their leisure spend. The food and beverage circuit was the worst hit.
 
 “The flow of guests was reduced to a trickle. Only those offering something different attracted business. This triggered another round of re-branding and revamping,” says Suresh Wadhwa, a consultant for several clubs.
 
 Many clubs have also relaxed their rules in order to attract more guests. Cover charges — where patrons are fully redeemed for the amount they pay at the gate — have replaced entry charges at many clubs. Also, almost all places have introduced the concept of a ‘happy hour’ to boost sales during a lean period. “That has become essential to boost sales. Every place is offering a happy hour. We also offer great discounts on food,” says Saraf of Tipsy Bull.
 
 The industry is also embarking on a public relations drive to salvage some of the goodwill that has taken a beating thanks to some incidents of lawlessness in the recent past. “A lot of people still look at nightlife in a negative way because they perceive it as a bunch of young people going out to create havoc. Some recent incidents have contributed to this notion,” says an industry veteran who has under his belt several new places in the city. “But then, untoward incidents happen in educational institutions and on sports fields. Then why single out party haunts? A lot of families and responsible individuals come out for a night with friends.”
 
 At   (or Mobar, as it is popularly known), the city’s first gastropub, the focus is as much nightlife as is it about food in a great ambience.  , chef and partner, feels a place should never compromise on good food, good service and good ambience. “These are the core competencies of any place. Guests will always come back if they like your service. Yes, we do have live performances and festivals on important occasions but our core competencies are sacrosanct for us,” says Chandra.
 
 
