
  celebration at the residence of the ambassador of the Netherlands was attended by many diplomats and Indian politicians. The chief guest at the ceremony was  , MoS (Independent Charge) for Youth Affairs and Sports, and he and  , the Dutch ambassador, addressed the gathering. The  , Syed  , marked his presence, though briefly – he left soon after the ceremony, without getting into the formalities of meeting the host or other guests. “We all know that the situation between India and Pakistan has not been good for the past few years,” he said to us, adding, “I would not talk about particular episodes. These are the times for both countries to reflect on the course of our relations over the last 70 years and on the future. I am not talking about this or that – these things keep happening. What is important is the long-term relationship and how much we invest in that. If there is a spirit, a desire, there will be a way to peace. You have to be convinced of the need and the value of peace.”
  
  Maj Gen Vetsop Namgyel, the Bhutanese ambassador, and Nils Ragnar Kamsvag, the Norwegian ambassador (BCCL)
 
  
  Syed Haider Shah, deputy high commissioner, Pakistan, and Panos Kalogeropoulos, the Greek ambassador (BCCL)
 
 
 
 The Dutch National Day, or King’s Day, is celebrated on April 27, but this year, the celebrations in Delhi were postponed from April to May – because the ambassador thought Delhi might have another phase of odd-even this April. “Last year, in April, the odd-even rule was imposed in Delhi, and we thought that we might have it again this year. Had that been the case, many guests wouldn’t have been able to make it to the event. So we decided to have our annual celebration in May, before people leave for the summer holidays. Almost 1,300 diplomats, business associates and friends attended the event this year,” said Stoelinga. Speeches at such formal ceremonies can sometimes be a little dry, but Stoelinga delighted his desi guests with some Hindi in his speech. “I hope sab theek tha. I am not fluent in Hindi, but I have been learning. I used to learn Hindi three hours a week for a long time. I also read Hindi newspapers like the Navbharat Times, especially the headlines, to understand the meaning of sentences,” he added.
 
  
  
 
  
  Alphonsus Stoelinga, RS Jaura and Vijay Goel (BCCL)
 
  
  Fakhri H Al-Issa, the Iraqi ambassador and  , the Nepalese ambassador (BCCL)
 
  
  Felix Ngoma, the ambassador of Congo, and  , deputy head of mission at the Dutch embassy (BCCL)
 
 
 
 Most guests who attend the Dutch National Day prefer wearing orange, as it is the colour associated with the Dutch royals. This year too, there were many who wore an orange scarf or tie, but they were often asked why they were ‘wearing saffron’! One of the guests at the party said, “I wear orange every year, but this time, I decided to give it a miss. This year, I see a lot of people confusing orange with saffron.”
  
  Guests attending the Dutch National Day do usually prefer wearing orange – the colour associated with the Dutch royal family. This year, however, those wearing orange were often asked, ‘Why are you wearing saffron?’(BCCL)
 
 
 
 
