NAGPUR: The   is all set to miss the May 15 deadline set by mayor Nanda Jichkar for cleaning three major rivers and 237 nullahs of the city. The NMC’s casual approach posses   this monsoon.

 Leader of the opposition in the NMC, Sanjay Mahakalkar said that the month-long pre-monsoon drive inaugurated by the mayor on April 17 has been going at snail’s pace. “By this time every year, at least two-week de-silting drive for all drains and sewerage lines is completed,” he said. 
 
 People are already apprehensive about the extensive water logging on roads during rains. Even little shower is enough to turn city roads into a pool. Mahakalkar said the clogged stormwater lines would escalate trouble for residents as major roads of the city have been dug up for either cement road works or for the   project. “No thought has been spared for cleaning sewerage lines in narrow lanes and unplanned areas,” he added.
 
 Mahakalkar alleged that the BJP-run civic body had skipped the de-silting operation last year too. This could lead to more clogging of sewerage lines as they might not be able to drain out water with sudden arrival of rain.
 
 The NMC has appointed three additional municipal commissioners Ramnath Sonawane, Rizwan Siddiqui and Ravindra Kumbhare to monitor de-silting operation across the city. TOI conducted a survey of rivers and nullahs and found most of them were fully choked with garbage. Now with eight poclain machines already in river bed, target is achievable but may be delayed. River cleaning is engineering department’s responsibility and drain cleaning is job of health department. It is only with collective effort better coordination that the goal can be accomplished. Of the 237 nullahs, the NMC has so far cleaned only 118.
 
 Founder of   Kaustav Chatterjee said though river cleaning started little early as compared to last year, it is yet to get the required momentum due to the late availability of machinery at site. “Though a meeting was conducted with all stakeholder groups about their contribution towards river cleaning, public participation seems to be in decline, which need to be enhanced,” he said. 
 
 Admitting about missing the deadline, Manoj Chafle, health committee chairman, directed the civic administration to complete the cleaning work before monsoon the arrival of monsoon.
 
