RANCHI/DALTONGANJ: Armed cadres of CPI   killed an alleged   in   and blew up the   of a para-teacher in   for allegedly siding with a rival group late on Saturday night.

 Jotra Lohra, 55, a resident of Lotwa village in Gumla district, was dragged out of his house late in the night by four gunmen. “They first beat up Lohra and then dragged to some distance from his house and shot him dead. The body was recovered on Sunday morning beside a nearby kuchha road,” said officer in-charge of Palkot police station, Nityanand Mahto. 
 
 The Maoists also left a note proclaiming that Lohra was punished for being a police informer. The superintendent of Gumla district police Chandan Kumar Jha said: “Lohra was in no way associated with the police. He was a common man who eked out a living by working as a farm labourer. We are combing the nearby areas to nab the culprits.”
 
 In another incident armed cadres of   blew up the two-room house of a   at village Gowasarey under Pandu police station, 52 kilometers from Daltonganj on Saturday night.
 
 A police source said that the dozen-odd Maoists were being led by the sub-zonal commander Ajay Yadav. The Maoists blew up the house of the para teacher, Beerbal Ram, with one powerful improvised explosive device (IED) around 8 pm.
 
 Nobody was injured in the incident, said the police source, since the Maoists before detonating the house asked the occupants of the house including women and children to come out with their belongings - food, clothing, utensils etc. Sources said the women moved out of the house with their ornaments hidden within their clothes.
 
 The Maoists did not leave behind any hand-written note to stake claim on the incident but eye-witnesses have told police that they shouted anti police slogans.
 
 Superintendent of police, Palamu, Indrajeet Mahatha said: “The Maoists suspect this para-teacher to be a sympathizer of a rival outfit   and we believe this was the reason behind this attack on his home.”
 
 Describing Yadav as a criminal Mahatha said: “He indulges in such aberrations to remain in news as Yadav dabbles in resolving land dispute cases, extortion. He said a complaint under the Prevention of Atrocities Act for acting against a member of the SC/ST has been registered against Yadav and the other cadres.
 
 “Following the attack, as a precautionary measure Ram’s two daughters Koushalya and Permilla and son Harinder Kumar Ravi will now be admitted in government residential schools away from home. Ram’s eldest son Ravinder Kumar Ravi will be given vocational training and helped to get a job,” said Mahatha.
 
