Trichy: The police in Nagappattinam and Trichy are not properly investigating a case against those who faked the original PVC pipes for drinking water supply, alleged an advocate and a representative of Finolex Industries Limited here. Citing a case pending in the Madras high court in this connection, the advocate said that there was widespread use of   which eventually caused health problems to the people.

 Assistant manager S Shanmugavel from Finolex alleged that the Thirukuvalai police in Nagappattinam district had failed to act on the case with regard to the use of inferior and fake PVC pipes with the brand name of their company. “The deputy superintendent of police, Nagappattinam seized the fake pipes from some persons as they were attempting to remove the duplicate pipes laid in Melakarai on June 22 following my complaint to the Thirukuvalai police on May 29 this year. They acted at the instigation of two persons who laid the pipes for drinking water supply. Though the police inquiry revealed the violation and the offence, the police remained mute spectators without arresting the accused persons,” Shanmugavel told reporters on Saturday. 
 
 They also pointed to another case with regard to the faking of registered trademark of another PVC manufacturer. It happened in Eloorpatti in Trichy district in July this year. Pointing out the complaint of regional manager of Avon Plastics Industries (P) Ltd S Prakash Nagarethinam about the fake PVC pipes in the name of their company in Eloorpatti, Advocate Amal Antony said that the police seized 50 under-quality PVC pipes in which avonplast trademark was fabricated from a hardware company in Eloorpatti on July 10 but there was no action on the matter. 
 
 “ Even after seizing the pipes, the police seem to have acted under pressure to slowdown the process of inquiry. The police are acting in favour of the accused persons in order to make them escape from the clutches of law for extraneous consideration or political influence,” alleged advocate Amal Antony.
 
 Going further, he said the fake PVC pipes used in the government drinking water project will not only lack the quality to withhold the pressure of water but also are not durable because it’s not food grade. “It will cause health hazards to the public,” said Amal. 
 
 Reacting to the allegation, sub-inspector of police, Kattuputhur police station Muruganandham said that there was no pressure on the police in this case. “ It is a case against fabrication of trademark. We are taking up proper investigation. There is no pressure to favor anyone,” said SI Muruganandham.
 
 
