RAIPUR: After controversial  's exit from Bastar,   and former chief minister   are scrambling to usurp the opposition space with both the parties raising issues of plight of tribals, fake encounters and other   and also accusing each other of being 'soft' on the BJP-led Raman Singh government.

 While the Congress chief Bhupesh Baghel is leading a four-day 'Jan Vedna Yatra' in the strife-torn tribal region raising issues of plight of tribals caught in the conflict, former chief minister Ajit Jogi's legislator son Amit Jogi countered the Congress for just targeting Bastar IG SRP Kalluri in an effort to spare chief minister Raman Singh for the happenings in Bastar.
 
 "Bastar IG Kalluri is just like a 'Sambha', the sidekick of Gabbar Singh of blockbuster Sholay," he said and compared Raman Singh to 'Gabbar of Bastar'.
 Accusing the Congress of going soft on chief minister Raman Singh and his ministers, Jogi said both the BJP and Congress are responsible for the present situation of Bastar. "By just removing one officer, chief minister Raman Singh cannot shirk his responsibility for the happenings in Bastar," he added.
 
 Accusing state Congress and its leaders of 'soft pedalling' when it comes to raising issues related to chief minister Raman Singh, Jogi said that the Congress attack on Bastar IG, an individual, itself is an indication that the opposition party is trying to mislead the people. He alleged that the chief minister is trying to portray that his government did a great job for Bastar by shifting an officer.
 
 Claiming that Congress agitation in Bastar is sponsored by chief minister Raman Singh, Amit Jogi pointed out, "Leader of the opposition used a state plane to reach Bastar to participate in the Padyatra led by opposition Congress president Bhupesh Baghel." "Will this happen in any other state, where a senior opposition party leader gets a state plane to attend a political event organised by the party?" he asked.
 
 While opposition leader TS Singhdeo preferred not to react to the criticism so far, state Congress spokesman Sushil Anand Shukla said in a statement that the leader of the opposition had only used the facility for which he is entitled to as his post is of the rank of a cabinet minister.
 
 The Congress spokesman also alleged that former chief minister Ajit Jogi has been occupying a government bungalow and availing other facilities for the last several years and he himself had used government helicopter and plane on several occasions after relinquishing the post of chief minister way back in 2003.
 
 Shukla alleged that former chief minister Ajit Jogi and his son Amit Jogi had to leave Congress as they were working in tandem with chief minister Raman Singh even while they were in the Congress. He said that Janata Congress leaders were trying to divert attention after Congress getting massive response for its Bastar Yatra, which will conclude at Kondagaon on February 13.
 
