JAIPUR: The   constituted to study the latest   order on   of cities has compiled its report, which is likely to be submitted to the   on Wednesday. 

 The court had directed to maintain the sanctity of master development plans (MDPs) of cities and demanded development projects to conform to the land uses specified by the plan. 
 
 Pronouncing the order on January 12 on half-a-dozen petitions related to deviations in MDPs of six cities, including Jaipur, Jodhpur, Ajmer, Kota, Udaipur and Bikaner, the division bench issued a 33-point direction and asked the state government to file a compliance report.
 
 “A report has been compiled and will be submitted tomorrow to the state government. We will file a review petition on the directions which cannot be complied with,” said a senior official of the directorate of local bodies.
 
 The court had directed the existing buildings with no parking space as per the plan to restore parking areas within the time frame given by local authorities. If the building owners fail to do so, the buildings shall be sealed and appropriate penal action will be taken against the defaulters. 
 
 “As it would be difficult for all the buildings situated in the city area to comply with the order, we have decided to file a review petition. Also, rules exist for regularising the illegal constructions,” said an official.
 
 The court had also directed that residential colonies developed with approved layout plans would not be used for any commercial purposes, and locations have to be appropriately specified for constructing multi-storey buildings. 
 
 Sources said that the state government would file a review petition to allow high-rises in city area. Also, to regularise the existing the commercial establishments as it will be nearly impossible to demolish or seal all the buildings. 
 
 In the report, the officials have suggested to remove all encroachments constructed over natural resources and pasture lands and unauthorised activities operating thereon. Also, local authorities will enforce the building bylaws strictly and no construction shall be permitted in deviation to the approved plan. 
 
 
