KOLKATA: In yet another complaint of medical negligence  , Mukundapur has been accused of suspending a bypass surgery two hours into the procedure and conducting an angioplasty instead. An FIR was filed against the hospital on Friday by the family of Dinkar Adhikari - a cardiac patient - who had been admitted to AMRI in January. It was also alleged in the complain that the hospital charged R 50,000 more than the package amount that had been agreed upon. AMRI, on the other hand has denied the allegation.

 According to Adhikari's fa mily , he had suffered a   on December 27, 2016 and had been admitted to the hospital. Doctors at AMRI, according to Adhikari's father-in-law Radharaman Lala, advised a bypass surgery the week after. They were told that the surgery would be apart of a Rs1,50,000 package, to which the family had agreed.
 
 Nearly two hours into the surgery , the procedure was abandoned, alleged Adhikari's family . They were told that he needed an angioplasty and not a bypass. “His chest was sewn up and we were assured that the package cost would remain unchanged,“ said Lala. But at the time of discharge on January 9, the hospital demanded Rs 50,000 more. The family has filed an FIR at the Purba Jadavpur police station nearly twoand-half months after the incident. “There was no fault on our rt. Adhikari's family had be part. Adhikari's family had been briefed about his condition in detail. They had been told that he needed an angioplasty and not a bypass. No bypass sur gery was done so the question of abandoning the operation half way through does not arise at all,“ said Rupak Barua, CEO AMRI Hospitals.
 
 The patient's kin, however alleged that the botched-up pro cedure has taken a toll on Adhi kari's health. He is reportedly yet to recover. “There was no negligence on our part and eve rything went according to plan There is nothing in the compla int,“ added Barua.
 
 Angioplasty is a minimally invasive procedure done to widen narrowed coronary arteries or veins. A deflated balloon attached to a catheter is passed over a guide-wire into the narrowed vessel and then inflated to a fixed size. The balloon forces expansion of the blood vessel and the surrounding muscu lar wall, allowing an improved blood flow. A stent may be inserted at the time of ballooning to ensure the vessel remains open, and the balloon is then deflated and withdrawn. Angioplasty has come to include all manner of vascular interventions that are typically performed percutaneously .
 
 A bypass surgery, on the other hand, is the construction of a new route for blood to flow around a blocked artery . It is mostly done in the coronary arteries of the heart, the femoral arteries in the groin or the popliteal arteries behind the knee.
 
