Chandigarh: AAP leader Sukhpal Khaira’s elevation as the leader of opposition, a position which will not just get him a cabinet rank but also a better opportunity to shine in Vidhan Sabha, marks a turnaround for him. Khaira’s own supporters in the party believe that his being denied the post of party’s Punjab president at a similar meeting convened by party supremo Arvind Kejriwal on May 8, proved to be a blessing in disguise for him.

 “He is known to aggressively raise issues in the assembly and this role suits him more. Given this position, he wouldn’t be repenting quitting the Congress, which eventually won the election, in 2015,” said one of his noted supporters requesting anonymity.
 
 At the same time, Khaira’s appointment would ensure that AAP Punjab unit is no longer a one-man show as it appeared to be relying heavily on its Sangrur MP and star campaigner Bhagwant Mann during the election campaign last year. Now, if Mann is the state president, Sunam MLA Aman Arora has been entrusted the task of reviving the organizational structure of the party as co-president and Khaira has got his own platform.
 
 Interestingly, even though Khaira was among the first AAP leader from Punjab to criticize the Delhi leadership for not giving a free hand to the local leaders after the dismal performance in the assembly elections, on Thursday, he did not forget to thank party leader Sanjay Singh, who was earlier in charge of Punjab affairs.
 
 When Mann was named the state president, it did not go down well with Khaira as he had to be content with the post of chief whip in the assembly. However, despite the party trying to placate him, Mann too has been lying low after the unexpected performance of the party despite his series of back-to-back rallies.
 
 Even though Phoolka will be away from the limelight, political experts believe that given his proximity to Kejriwal and having led the party at least in one assembly session, he would continue to be a force to reckon with if the party were to win the next assembly election and goes looking about for a CM face.
 
 “As of now, despite the friction, the key leaders have their roles spelt out. The party wouldn’t expect much from the municipal polls and Mann would like to focus on the parliamentary elections to re-establish his position in the party. The real test for the leadership will be to sustain itself till the next state assembly elections,” said a former AAP leader.
 
 After the announcement of his name, Khaira too ridiculed those who had made speculations about the party’s MLAs being poached by the BJP. “We have all stood firmly together and will work unitedly,” he said.
 
 Khaira stood out among the party’s 20 MLAs for having remained an active legislator from 2007-2012 with maximum participation in discussions and debates. “I relentlessly fought the oppressive and anti-people policies of the SAD-BJP government in Punjab. I was able to protect hundreds of Congress workers of my district from the political vendetta and have been one of the most vocal critic of the Badal clan and never hesitates to take them head on,” he said.
 
 
