LUCKNOW: Reflecting a positive and  ,   has said that the new government will not undo anything good done by the predecessors. 

 Talking to TOI on Thursday soon after taking charge of his office, Nath said, “we have pledged to provide quality health care services to the last man in our state and we will undertake anything to achieve the goal.” 
 
 When asked to comment if he would revoke previous government’s orders of extending free services to the people going to public hospitals, he said, “we will not get into all this... a good thing done by the Samajwadis or others will not be discontinued.” 
 
 About renaming the Samajwadi   service, he said, “at the moment I can say that the ambulances have benefited people and they will not be discontinued. However, about its name, we shall apprise you soon.” 
 
 Sources in the health department, however, said that efforts to rename the 102 ambulances are on. As of now, a white or black sticker has been pasted over the name Samajwadi after instructions from the  .
 
 “Renaming is a win-win situation for the government. The previous government had to pay a hefty amount from the state exchequer to keep the word ‘Samajwadi’ on it as the Centre had withdrawn its funding. By dropping this name, the Central funding would be revived,” sources said. 
 
 
 Lucknow: The state health department will come up with an app to spread awareness about top 10 common health ailments. Covering prevention and treatment aspects of these diseases, the app will be compatible for both smart and featured phones. 
 
 Announcing this after taking charge of the department, newly appointed health minister Siddhart Nath said, “We want that the information on ten selected diseases should be on the finger tips of the people so that there is no room for panic.” The ailments would include seasonal infections and vector borne diseases. It may also include TB which the Indian government wants to eliminate by 2025. 
 
 The minister also inspected the state health directorate here on Thursday and made all the doctors and staff pledged cleanliness on their campus. Nath also said that there will be zero tolerance to corruption and a number if steps would be taken to ensure transparency in the work culture. “We will move towards digitisation of files, start e-tendering and e-procurement which naturally bring transparency and bust traditional nexus marring quality of health services in the state,” he said. 
 
 Nath shared that he has instructed officials to start formulation of a treatment protocol for 10 common diseases. “This will like standard operating procedures for common ailments. A need for this was felt following ambiguity in approach towards management of diseases in rural and urban areas. In the village, a doctor may simply check the pulse and conclude that the baby has fever while in the urban areas a doctor may prescribe several unnesscary tests The ambiguity will end once the treatment protocol comes into play.” 
 
 
