The directorate general of civil aviation ( ) will investigate the crash-landing of the chopper that was carrying chief minister   at Nilanga on Thursday. But an official at the directorate of aviation has claimed that the chopper had no maintenance issues and all the parameters were followed.

 Madhav Godbole, deputy director with the directorate, said, “The chopper is only meant to fly VVIPs, that is, the CM and governor. With the DGCA watching our backs, a strict maintenance schedule is followed. Though details of the schedule cannot be given, we can say for sure that all parameters to ensure safety of the chopper were followed religiously.” 
 
 According to preliminary reports, when the chopper took off, a huge dust cloud was formed and the pilots, while trying to avoid it, few into cable wires.
 
 However, aviation experts believe that the state needs to do much more to ensure proper maintenance of its existing fleet of aircraft and choppers.
 
 Aviation expert and analyst Dhairyashil Vandekar said the state’s aviation department’s record of aircraft and helicopter maintenance leaves a lot to be desired. “Almost half of the state’s fleet of helicopters and aircraft is grounded. Out of the two helicopters it has, a Dauphin chopper is grounded since almost five years and now, the other VT-CMM Sikorsky S76C helicopter has crash-landed,” he said. 
 
 Vandekar said that the maintenance of the helicopter involved in the accident was being done by M/s   Pvt Ltd. “A DGCA probe in October 2016 had revealed that the Indamer Aviation’s base maintenance manager and aircraft maintenance engineer had signed and certified that work had been carried out on an helicopter despite the chopper being at a different location at that particular time,” he told TOI. Following the 2016 DGCA investigation, which revealed several other aircraft maintenance violations, licences of three Indamer engineers were suspended. The DGCA had initiated action against the director and CEO of Indamer and four officials of two aircraft charter firms.
 
 “There are varied reasons that could cause a  . Broadly, the common causes are found to be an operational error or mechanical malfunction that may involve an element of human error at times. It could be by way of error in flight planning or actual conduct of take-off or oversight in review procedures or maintenance,” he explained. 
 
  “The government must review spots used as heliports in rural areas and ensure they comply with safety parameters,” he said.
 
 The government has in May empanelled Adonis Aviation Enterprises and   to provide fleet services for the state’s VIPs, Vandekar said, adding that the state had cited reasons like repair cost of the grounded flying machines being too high, non-availability of pilots and requirement to fly CM and other VIPs, especially at short notices.
 
 
