Singer Gowry Lekshmi, the voice behind songs like Aaro Nenjil, is an avid animal lover. 

 But when Gowry entered her rescue dog Moochi’s photo under the ‘Cutest Indian Dog Alive’ contest run by  , she never thought naughty old Moochi would actually win the first prize! Apparently, the online voters loved Moochi’s picture with sand on his face, and he is now officially the cutest Indian dog of 2017.
 
 The contest is run for rescued Indian dogs, and Moochi, found injured in an accident in a street in Chennai, was rescued by Gowry and her friends. “I was studying in Chennai then, and one night we heard the screaming of a puppy in our street. A car had run over it and both its back legs were fractured.”
  
  
 Gowry’s friend Kshema immediately took the puppy to hospital, got him treated and the next one month he recuperated at the girls’ flats, bandage et al. However, it was time for them to leave Chennai by then, and no one knew what to do with the puppy who they had named Moochi. “I decided to bring him home to Alappuzha, and booked a first class AC coupe. He travelled with me and we landed at our home, where he has been living a royal life since. My parents and sister pamper him no end, and he has the run of the house,” says Gowry.
  The house sits in a two acre compound, and Moochi, now a year and a half old, runs around to his heart’s content but is a bundle of mischief, apparently. “His favourite hobby is to dig the sand and get his nose all dirty. He tears paper into pieces and almost tore the winner’s T-shirt from PETA when we made him wear it,” says Gowry.
 
 Moochi is not the only animal the singer has rescued, though. “I can never walk away if I see an injured cat or dog. Once, I spotted an old cat getting soaked in the rain and walked 3 km carrying it.” 
  
  
  It doesn’t take much to save an animal, a little thought would suffice, says Gowry. “All we need to spend would be the petrol charges to take it to a hospital but for the animal, it could mean its life. If each of us thought of it that way, it would make such a huge difference. You get a biscuit packet for as little as Rs 10, which could be a full meal for a streetie. Or when we go to a restaurant, there would invariably be a bit of leftover food, which we would waste if we take it home. I always get it packed and give it to some animal on my way back. Let’s always keep in mind all the living beings around us, not just human beings.”
 
