NEW DELHI: Ankit Bhardwaj (27), who allegedly tried to attack former minister   on Wednesday, has been   and sent to three days’ judicial custody. According to his family members, Bhardwaj is a chartered accountant and had quit his job to join  . He was also associated with India Against Corruption movement, the family said. 

 His mother claimed Bhardwaj had gone to meet Mishra in order to convince him not to go against the party, but before he could say anything, he was thrashed by the latter’s supporters. His parents are shocked that no AAP member enquired about him after the incident and instead, the party tried to brand him as a BJYM activist. Now, his family wants Bhardwaj to quit AAP and return to work.
 
 “He had told us that he was going to fetch books from Laxmi Nagar. Some time later, I saw him on TV getting heckled by the supporters of Mishra. I tried calling him but his phone was damaged in the scuffle,” said his mother. His father works at the home ministry.
 
 She said Bhardwaj knew the   well and had gone to meet him because he was “baffled” by his actions. “He was confused as to why Mishra would go against the party,” she said.
 
 She alleged whatever had been shown on TV was a total misrepresentation of facts. She claimed that Bhardwaj had called her to say that he was on his way to   minutes before the incident. “He had completed his CA in May last year and quit his job two months ago to help out AAP with the elections. He had even travelled to Punjab last month. Now, he will resume his work as a CA,” she said.
 
 The woman added that her son was a strong AAP supporter and played an active role in setting up some mohalla clinics. She said personally, she would not like her son to be associated with any political party. 
 
 “But, he is an educated youth and I am not going to tell him what to do and what not. He told me he wants to die for his country, but I ask him to live for us,” she added. On Wednesday, police had registered a case of assault and criminal intimidation based on video evidence against Bhardwaj.
 
