PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The   (PCCF) released a citizens’ manifesto on Monday seeking to create a distinct identity for the twin city while demanding a separate   constituency and a police commissionerate for the area.

 Besides, the manifesto also brought to the fore the need to set up a CCTV control centre for Pimpri Chinchwad. It also highlighted conservation and cleanliness of Pavana, Mula and Indrayani rivers while highlighting the need to set up a multi-modal transport hub at Nigdi. Also, it focussed on solving pending problems of regularization of illegal constructions, reducing limits of Red Zone (no-development zone around defence establishments). On the issue of land acquired for the Pimpri Chinchwad New Township Development Authority (PCNTDA), it asked the authorities to return 12.5% acquired land to the farmers.
 
 “The twin city with a population of 22 lakh people has lived under the shadow of Pune city,”  , convener, PCCF, said, while elaborating on the ‘Pimpri Chinchwad First’ initiative. 
 
 He said urban police stations must be operationalized to act against illegal constructions. “Also, a separate department for a consumer court must be set up,” Bhavsar added.
 
 The manifesto also demanded to form clusters for garbage management companies on the lines of IT park while creating a dashboard for citizens to provide online services, suggestions and newsletter.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Dhananjay Shedbale, convenor, PCCF, said, “We held discussions with around 150 experts, citizens, organizations and others before preparing the manifesto.”
 
 Amol Deshpande, convenor, PCCF, said, “Our members will be meeting presidents of all the major political parties in the city and submit the manifesto to them. We will request them to include the points from our manifesto into their party’s election manifesto for the 2017 municipal elections.”
 
 The points raised in our manifesto are pragmatic and must be implemented for the welfare of the general public of the twin city, he added.
 
