MUMBAI:  , whose over-thetop screen personas take the Pakistani army and Indian crime rings on single-handedly, is struggling to hold a place in plush   he has called home for the past few days.
 
  Fed up of the constant presence of his   detail in the building and the multiple checks the residents have to undergo to enter their own houses, the Riviera Cooperative Housing Society, where the guru occupies a sea-facing duplex apartment, has issued the guru a notice asking him to leave.
  
  Baba Ram Rahim Singh took residence in the housing society in February and the housing society was told that he would leave on February 10. The housing society has alleged that the owner of the apartment the guru is occupying had not specified which godman he was giving his flat to.
  
  When Baba Ram Rahim Singh arrived, the members of the housing society – comprising two buildings Reviera and Reviera Beach – were shocked to see the size of his security detail. At any given point, 36 armed policemen occupy the Reviera’s ground floor. Both Reviera and Reviera Beach have 12 floor and 25 apartments each.
  
  The guru occupies a duplex on 6th and 7th floor of Reviera.
  
  The society members have alleged that apart from not leaving any space for children to play, the policemen put every person entering the building through a round of frisking.
  
  Baba Ram Rahim Singh heads  , a spiritual cult, and commands huge following in Punjab and Haryana. In recent years the guru has featured in a series of films starring him in the lead role.
  
  The society’s chairman Suresh Jasani said the guru’s security detail has become a nuisance for the residents. “His guards are all over the compound. There is constant traffic of vehicles coming in and leaving the compound,” he said.
  
  Jasani said the society is considering all options before it. “There have been discussions and a decision will be made in a committee meeting soon.”
  
  Baba Ram Rahim Singh’s his spokesperson Aditya Insaan said he has not received any communication from the housing society. “There is no truth in the allegations. He used to stay in Bandra earlier and there was no such complaint. If there is any such defamatory material against the spiritual guru then appropriate action will be taken,” he said.
