MADURAI: A team of   from   district has come to the rescue of wild animals of   forest areas which have been forced to forage into nearby farm lands for water and food due to the drought-like condition ravaging the region.

 The doctors have donated a motor pump to the forest department and will bear rent for a tractor to ferry water to the four troughs on the fringes of forest at Vannathiparai. While the forest department possesses a tanker it does not have a tractor to move it. The team will provide rent for the tractor till the monsoon starts by May-end. 
 
 The doctors came up with this initiative as they feared that the animals, including wild elephants, would move towards a wild stream named Periaodai flowing out of Megamalai in search of water. As the stream flows through farm lands, there are chances of elephants moving towards the stream and raiding the crops for food. “By providing water at Vannathiparai itself, the wild animals can be kept inside the forest fringes,” said the doctors.
 
 Though man-animal conflict is yet to reported in the region this year, it is highly likely as ponds and waterbodies are drying up fast. In May 2016, wild elephants had trampled a man to death in Vannathiparai region. “Considering the plight of wild animals this summer, we came together with this idea to help the forest department to provide water to wild animals in Vannathiparai area,” said Dr C P Rajkumar, a physician at Theni who runs the wildlife NGO, VANAM (  and Mountain Ranges). 
 
 Megamalai wildlife warden M   said that water sources are available for animals in the interior of the sanctuary where the forest is moist deciduous type. On the fringes, it is dry and animals come down to farm lands looking for water. “The doctors’ team has provided a water pump which we have kept at Kudalur. We will take water to troughs situated inside forest areas. They have also provided an anti-monkey garbage bin which we kept at Vannathiparai area,” he said. The garbage bin is specially designed so that monkeys cannot reach inside. 
 
