Choreographer   was on a touch-and-go visit to Lucknow recently. Geeta, while on her way to   to judge a dance competition, stopped at Lucknow to meet the kids from a dance workshop in Mahanagar. "I was going to Bareilly when my friend in Lucknow, who organises dance workshops, got to know about my visit to Bareilly. He requested me to come and meet the kids at his workshop. During this visit to Lucknow and Bareilly, I was surprised to see such talented kids. Yahan pe UP ke bahut saare chhote shehron se bhi bachche aaye they who were exceptionally talented. Even in the past I have been to   and was amazed to see how kids there are learning several dance forms by watching videos online. All thanks to the internet today, we have extremely talented kids now even in remote areas," says Geeta. 
A huge fan of choreographer  , Geeta was all praise for his efforts at shedding a whopping 85kg in the last one-and-a half years. "Ganesh masterji’s story is really inspiring. I too desperately want to lose weight. It is just that I have a severe back problem because of which I am not able to strain myself much physically."
 She adds, "But yes, I agree that we Indian choreographers have a tendency to gain weight. More so because our assistants spoil us by taking extra care of us," she says, adding, "Having said that, weight has nothing to do with our creativity. Yes, I agree that dance choreographers in the West are mostly lean and thin but weight has nothing to do with our dancing.” 
 Geeta had recently judged the kids' dance reality show Super Dancer. Ask her about her take on filmmaker  's appeal to ban reality shows with kids, and she says, "What has the judges and makers to do with this? The choice is entirely of the parents who make their kids participate in such reality shows. And why just target the reality shows. Kids have been featuring in films and TV serials too. We never point fingers at the makers then. Also, school mein bhi toh annual day celebrations hote hain jiske liye kids practice for days and nights for months. Kids are quite capable of managing studies along with reality shows. So the debate in itself is baseless. I think every kid should make the most of these opportunities which come their way. Plus these reality shows are not running for ever. So they always go back and resume their studies." 
 
