KOCHI: Seeking to make a thousand odd new students joining St Teresa's College this academic year the ambassadors for a green etiquette, the college will have a unique welcoming along with the launch of  's 'Ente Haritha Bhavanam' project on June 2. 

 All the students that join will be provided with four eco-friendly products, namely college bags, carry bags and pencil pouches made of waste cloth collected from textile shops and a steel cup with their name inscribed in it.
 
 "The students will be given all four items at a minimal amount of Rs 450 or so on total, all of which are made by the Kudumbashree cell. This will minimize the number of rexine products purchased considerably," said Dr.  , head of the Economics department at  , who spearheads the 'Ente Haritha Bhavanam' project at the college.
 
 She added that the steel cups that are provided to the children with their names engraved on it will help in avoiding the use of disposable cups for tea breaks to a large extent as well, and the carry bags will substantially decrease the purchase of plastic packets for stationary shopping.
 
 The 'Ente Haritha Bhavanam' project, which will kick off on the same day, will be an added effort towards revolutionizing the children's lifestyle to an eco-friendly one.
 
 "The project was first conceptualized by the district collector when we had approached him to hand over the 1,000 paper bags made by the children of the college for pilgrims during Malayattoor pilgrimage. Over 76 students from the college had volunteered for the Suchitwa Mission programme. When he came to know about the activities of the Bhoomitrashaala club, he suggested we pursue a project," Padmanabhan said.
 
 The project, which aims to promote green lifestyle among the youth, will be focusing on the 2nd year students of the college.
 
 "Much like the Ten Commandments, a Ten Point Charter was drawn, which will be encouraged to be followed by the students at both their own homes and at college. The students will hold an informal audit on how their friends are maintaining the protocols. The students can also keep a photographic record of their upkeep, and the best ones will be acknowledged by the college," said  , the district coordinator for the Suchitwa Mission.
 
 He added that after monitoring the success of the programme, it will be implemented in other colleges in the city as well.
 
