JAIPUR: Having spent a   in search of her seven-year-old daughter, 35-year-old   is shattered. Her eyes are swollen and red as she is sobbing silently outside the surgical ICU of the   where her daughter is now undergoing treatment.

 Her daughter went missing around 7 pm on Friday from the footpath outside the   where the mother and her two daughters have been sleeping for the past few days. “She went missing at 7 pm and I found her at 7am next day in the park (Ramniwas Bagh). The park is quite close to Bairon Nathji temple where we have been living for the past 30 days on footpath,” Shanti (name changed), mother of the girl who went missing, said.
 
 Shanti looked tired and broken. Before going to complete formalities as it was medico-legal case (MLC), a hospital employee asked her to sit on the chair. But, she sat on the floor sobbing, covering her face with her palms. The employee consoled her that her daughter will be all right trying to give her some solace. 
 
 Shanti along with her two daughters came to Jaipur from Indore a month ago. “My husband quarrelled with me frequently. We left him and reached Jaipur. Here, I started picking rags to stay alive. We found a place outside Bairon Nathji temple outside Ajmeri Gate near Ramniwas Bagh to stay as there are others also staying there on footpaths,” she said. 
 
 Life came crashing down on her when she found her younger daughter missing from the place where they were staying. “My elder daughter who is 10-year-old had gone somewhere. I went to search for her while my younger daughter was sleeping. I found my elder daughter but when I came back, my younger daughter went missing,” Shanti said.
 
 “I tried to find her everywhere. I searched her at Ramniwas Bagh first. Then, I ran till railway station where ticket counter is situated but I did not found her. I tried to find her on roads and streets whole night but I did not spot her. But, at 7am when I reached Ramniwas Bagh again, I found her wrapped in a blanket. She was semi-conscious. She was bleeding from her private parts,” she said.
 
 After finding her daughter, she rushed to Lal Kothi police station. The police rushed her to J K Lon Hospital for her treatment. 
 
 Shanti has another daughter, who is already married in Shyamgarh in  .
 
