GANDHINAGAR: Minister of state for home   on Tuesday during a discussion on the gang rape of two minor girls of   revealed the identity of the father of the survivors on the floor of the house.

 The minister said, “They are not only the daughters of (he named the father) but of the entire Gujarat”.
 
 Leader of opposition   later said that this is not the first time Jadeja has identified the family of a rape survivor but has done it in the past too. “This reveals how insensitive   and its ministers are on this serious issue,” he said.
 
 Earlier in the day, the   members walked out of the state assembly accusing the BJP of being insensitive to gang rape of two minor girls. 
 
 The Congress alleged that the girls were gang-raped after their brother had raised alarm over the liquor trade in the village. Raising the issue, Congress MLA Chandrika Bariya alleged that the BJP government was “protecting bootleggers and rapists”. During the discussion, she said that the government had been “supporting mafias and taking cuts from bootleggers”.
 
 This led to din in the assembly with the ruling party MLAs demanding that Bariya should withdraw her accusations. She alleged that the BJP government may bring in strict laws but liquor trade in Gujarat would never end. She said that one of the accused was husband of BJP sarpanch from the village. The speaker suspendent Congress MLA Paresh Dhanani for the rest of the season.
 
 Minister of state for home Pradipsinh Jadeja gave details of the incident and said that all the accused have been arrested and remanded to police custody. He said that the sarpanch had no association with the BJP. “I have proofs of Congress’ involvement, let it remain a secret.” This again led to pandemonium in the house. Leader of opposition Shankersinh Vaghela said, “If you are hinting at Congress involvement in rape cases, don’t forget that several of your people are involved in such cases.” 
 
 He said that since the BJP was insensitive to the entire issue, he and his party cannot take part in the discussion and the Congress members staged a walked out. Later talking to media, Vaghela said that the Congress walked out as the BJP minister was trying to make it a political issue. 
 
