Ferozepur: In a bid to commemorate 120 years of the  , which was fought on September 12, 1897, a state-level function was organised at Saragarhi Gurdwara in Ferozepur on Tuesday.

 According to the UNESCO, the battle is one of the eight greatest stories of bravery in the world history.
 
 For the first time, 14 dignitaries from British Royal Military Academy, Sandhurst, Surrey came to India to pay their homage to the 21 brave Sikh soldiers, who sacrificed their lives while protecting the Saragarhi post from a force of over 10,000 Afghans and tribesmen. The British army officers included Major General Duncan Francis Capps, Brigadier Timothy John Seal, Colonel John Richard Kendall, Lieutenant Colonel William David Blakey, Lt Col Saly Yvonne Arthurton, Maj Sartaj Singh Gogna, Maj Donna Lodge, Captain John Bermard Warburton, Captain David Michael Luke Wadding, Captain Daljinder Singh Virdee, WO Ashok Kumar Chauhan (MBE), Lance Corporal Hapreet Kaur and Private Harshal Singh.
 
 Punjab finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal along with his cabinet mambers Navjot Singh Sidhu and Sadhu Singh Dharamsot presided the function, which was attended by Army officers, ex-servicemen and martyrs’ families.
 
 While addressing the function, Manpreet Badal said the Punjab government declared a holiday on September 12 every year as a mark of respect to the unmatched bravery of the 21 Sikh warriors.
 
 Meanwhile, on the occasion, a book of in-depth research about Battle of Saragarhi by Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh was presented to the dignitaries.
 
 In his address, Punjab cultural affairs minister Navjot Singh Sidhu gave a tribute to the martyrs and assured the people that the state government was determined to realizing the dreams of the martyrs.
 
 He said, in consultation with the CM, a museum and a library would be built in their memory and funds for that purpose would not be a problem for the government.
 
 Meanwhile, Shiromani Gurudwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) celebrated the Saragarhi Day separately at Gurudwara Jamni Sahib in Bajidpur village of Ferozepur on Tuesday. The function was directed by SGPC president Kirpal Singh Bandugar. Other participants of the event were: Jathedar of Takht Damdama Sahib Giani Harpreet Singh, SGPC general secretary Amarjit Singh Chawla and former SGPC chief Bibi Jagir Kaur. While addressing the gathering, Bandugar said that the sacrifices made by the 21 Sikhs to protect the Saragarhi fort proved that Sikhs were always ready to sacrifice their lives for the integrity and safety of their motherland.
 
 
