NAGPUR: The monopoly of   school owners with regards to   in their institutes is now over with the central board amending its affiliation bye-laws. Now every selection panel constituted by the management will need to have nominees of both the CBSE and state education department. More importantly, this rule change pretty much gives veto powers to state education officials in the selection process. 

 With this decision the long drawn tug-of-war between CBSE schools and state education department seems be moving decisively in the latter’s direction. A senior state education official said, “It’s a welcome move and in fact we had asked for this way back in 2010 but these schools were not even interested in listening to us. Our experience is that CBSE school management always looks down upon us even though they all start off as our affiliates before shifting to the central board.” Others in the education department too echoed the same sentiments with a ‘triumphant’ note. “Now that their board has said it then they have no choice to follow it. We will finally have a decision making role in their schools which help to ensure that all rules and regulations laid down by state are being properly implemented,” said another officer. 
 
 Schools however are unhappy with the decision with many seeing it as an ‘unnecessary intrusion’. A trustee said, “There’s a saying in English that if it ain’t broke, don’t fix it. CBSE has most probably given into pressure from states and added this clause. Our selection methods are extremely transparent and follow the norms laid down.” Another trustee, who also owns a college said, “This new rule will only add friction in the selection process. For long the state education officials have held a grudge against the top CBSE schools and this will be like ‘payback’ time.” CBSE has been focusing on keeping a tight leash on school managements that appoint their kin as principals, though in Nagpur city there are no such cases. Top CBSE schools prefer professionals to run the show and keep their family involvement limited to executive decisions.
 
 This decision is a second shot in the arm for state education officials vis-à-vis their cold war with CBSE. TOI reported on Wednesday on how CBSE has made it mandatory for every school seeking affiliation to submit a no-objection certificate (NOC) from their home state along a certificate of recognition. While the latter was never an issue, the NOC from state education department was something that schools were never happy with. Hence in 2013 the then Minister of State for Human Resources Development (HRD) Shashi Tharoor pushed for its revocation, which CBSE ultimately approved. But now three years later that amendment has been scrapped meaning no school can get affiliated to CBSE until its home state education officials give an OK.
 
 
