NAGPUR:   this year was celebrated by Nagpurians in diverse ways — social causes, patriotic programmes or good old family time. Maharaj Bagh, Futala lake and Buldi fort were some of the places which saw immense rush. Show of patriotism was high among youngsters who rode bikes with huge flags. Some of them at Futala lake got their faces painted in tricolor. A 300 feet tricolor was seen being floated by students and pedestrians from the Shankar Nagar route towards Futala lake. Traffic congestion was witnessed outside Buldi fort owing to the rarity of opportunity to see the fort as it only opens to public on Republic Day and Independence Day.

 People also assembled in large numbers to witness the parade held every year on Republic Day at  . Guardian Minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule gave the keynote address. Divisional commissioner Anoop Kumar, police commissioner Dr K Venkatesan, district collector Sachin Kurve and special inspector general of police Pratap Singh Patankar were also present at the venue.
 
 Members of   showed exemplary act by collecting all the paper and plastic replicas of the tricolor carelessly discarded on the roads. Army veteran Major   addressed citizens at Bhartiya Janata Yuva Morcha president Shivani Dani’s bi-annual patriotic programme, ‘ye Dharti Hai Balidaan Ki.’
 
 A Mini Marathon Run of five Kilometers was organized by the National Cadet Corps Group Headquarter, Nagpur to commemorate the 69th Republic Day to spread awareness of ethos and strength of our Constitution, and largest the democracy of the world. The audience was asked to keep themselves physically fit to have a healthy nation. A mega Akhadi exhibition was held at Naikwadi, Bangladesh Hanuman Mandir ground. Children with swords and staffs demonstrated their skills.
 
 A free Multispecialty Camp was organized in various specialities such as Orthopaedics, Dental, Gynaecology, Surgery and Physician by Apex hospital in Jaripatka. Along with consultations of the patients, their BMI, BP, sugar test, BMD, were also done free of cost.
 
