HYDERABAD: Chief minister   is reportedly unhappy with the police, both on the Dharna Chowk incident in the city and also the handcuffing of farmers in Khammam. The CM has conveyed his feelings to the bigwigs of the police.He also felt that the police had shown `athyuthsahamu' (over-enthusiasm) in handling both the situations.

 The chief minister who met some partymen informally said he did not approve of the way police handled both the situations. “He definitely was unhappy about the handcuffing of farmers in Khammam by the police,“ a party source said.
 
 Though the police had prepared a strategy to prevent violence at Dharna Chowk, the fact that the situation went out of hand and people suffered injuries in the violence was something KCR didn't approve of.
 
 With both the incident becoming a blot on the TRS government, party MLAs have sprung into action to ensure that the image of the party does not take a beating.
 
 “Certainly, both the incidents should not have taken place. This is the feeling in the party,“ an MLA said.
 
 On May 11, farmers who were arrested in the case of attack on a mirchi yard were brought in handcuffs to the court by the escort police.This sparked an outrage. Two armed reserve sub-inspectors were suspended immediately for handcuffing the farmers. An inquiry by a senior police official was also ordered. Agriculture minister   had also openly condemned the action of the police in handcuffing farmers. The   (SHRC) also took cognizance of the incident and directed the Khammam SP to submit a report on the incident.
 
 On April 28, the   mam agricultural market yard was vandalized as farmers were unhappy at not getting the remunerative prices for mirchi. In this case, 10 farmers were arrested.
 
 On May 15, the protest led by left parties turned bloody as they clashed with local residents and the police. The fact that police in mufti posed as local residents too became an issue.
 
 “With elections two years away, the opposition parties are trying to make an issue out of the Dharna Chowk. We are definitely sad about the farmers handcuffing incident and also violence at  . However, these incidents will not affect the overall image of the party which is working for the welfare of all sections of the people,“ an MLA said.
 
