Full of energy and vigour, the recently-elected Students Council at St Joseph’s   has big shoes to fill in. The Student Union elections were held recently on campus and the results of the same were announced last week. However, inauguration of the union was held on Friday, where all the council members took an oath to serve the college and the students. Bangalore Times caught up with the members of the union, who have elaborate plans for the upcoming academic year.

 
 
 Aaron S George, president, says that as student representatives, they want to take the college forward in all the fields. “We would want maximum participation from students. We want to conduct some of the best   and other extra-curricular activities,” he says. “The motto of our college is to serve the society. In order to do so, we are planning several things, including introduction of Rotary Club in the college. Apart from that, we also plan to organize TED talks in college,” says Mayukh Sen, treasurer.
 
 
 
 The college boasts 5,000 students and addressing every student’s problem can be quite a task, so how do they manage to hear all problems? “We have a weekly event called Let’s Talk It Out, at which we interact with students and hear them out. We ask them for feedback and notify the concerned coordinators. Apart from that, we also have a group on a messaging platform where all class representatives are there, and if they have any problem, be it academic or   or event related, they bring it to our notice,” says Tejaswini Mohan, vice president.
 
 
 
 Currently their biggest challenge is to provide alternate space for students to practice sports. “Since there is construction going on in the college premise, there isn’t any space for students to practice for sports. Hence, we have made alternate arrangements for them at Kanteerava Stadium and at St Joseph’s Indian High School Grounds,” says Libin Thomas, joint secretary, stating that once the construction will be over, there will be better sports facilities, both indoor and outdoor, for the students. And how do they handle pressure of being in the student union with so many responsibilities? “With power comes great responsibility,” says Aaron jokingly, adding that they have received immense support from the students and the faculty members.
 
 
 
 Although, they may seem like a bunch of friends who get along, they too have difference of opinions. “Individually, we all have different agendas as such, but we try to merge them all and make it into one unique idea that represents the council as a whole, so we strive towards it. We inculcate each and everyone’s plan and come up with one idea. For e.g, right now, we are planning for an over bridge from the post graduate block to the undergraduate block, and that was an idea from one of the student union members, which was a good one and would benefit both the college and the student community. So, we are trying to look at ideas that would benefit us like this,” says Aaron.
 
 When questioned about budgetary restrictions during events and fests and what do they plan if they overshoot the budget, Libin says, “When we cross the budget we have tremendous support from the management. Apart from that, we find sponsors with whom the college has a good rapport with. In addition to that we even try to look for partnerships, big corporates and even small vendors who can set up their stalls, through which we collect money and somehow come up to the budget we need,” Mayukh sums up.
 
 Rachel.Windsor@timesgroup.com
 
