NEW DELHI: Managing the massive growth in air traffic, especially for low-cost carriers, is proving to be a challenge for the Delhi International Airport Pvt Ltd (DIAL) at the choked terminal 1. Going to this terminal in peak morning and evening hours has become a nightmare for flyers as the solitary road leading to it remains chock-a-block with cars and getting off the vehicle to enter the terminal is a quite a task.

 DIAL has now put forward three options to the three airlines that operate from T1—IndiGo, SpiceJet and GoAir: move one airline to T2 (the old international terminal that was mothballed in 2010 when T3 became operational); relocate some   of all the airlines from T1 to T2; reduce peak-hour flights of all the three airlines at T1 by 20% and spread them over non-peak hours.
 
 The airport operator has given these options as its plan to shift SpiceJet and GoAir—which collectively have 72 aircraft—to T2 and make T1 exclusively for IndiGo met with stiff resistance from the former two. SpiceJet’s stand, for instance, has been that either all airlines be shifted partially to T2 or none. IndiGo alone operates 126  . 
 
 Till airlines decide on what to do, DIAL CEO I P Rao is learnt to have suggested shifting all flights from the three LCCs bound for Mumbai, Bengaluru and Kolkata from T1 to T2 from February 15.
 
 T1 has an annual passenger handling capacity of 2 crore. DIAL expects 2.3 crore passengers will pass through T1 from April 1, 2016 to March 31, 2017, which means a claustrophobic congestion inside the terminal and flight delays due to its inability to process the huge rush in time.
 
 The airport operator got a master plan cleared for T1 in 2016 by the aviation ministry, under which this will eventually become a “full-fledged domestic terminal with a capacity of 3.5 crore” passengers annually. DIAL has told airlines relocating some flights from T1 to T2 will help in decongesting the terminal as well as start expansion work. SpiceJet and GoAir have firmly refused to shift to T2.
 
 A DIAL spokesperson refused to comment on this issue.
 
 Meanwhile, as the airport operator and airlines fail to arrive at a consensus, woes of passengers flying out of T1 are getting worse by the day. “DIAL wants to reduce flights in   while we have been requesting to add them in the peak demand hours. The failure to mount more flights is hurting passengers. The aviation ministry must step in and come to the aid of flyers at the choked T1,” said a senior airline official.
 
 IndiGo, SpiceJet and GoAir collectively had 60.2% market share of domestic air travel last year. These three airline have 710 planes on order with an option to increase this number by 50.
 
 
