INDORE: Using   disturbs   of students, which leads to sleeplessness and  , experts said.

 “With students increasingly  , they have started cutting down on the hours they sleep, only to spend time talking, gaming or using the internet,” city based psychiatrist, Dr Abhay Jain told TOI. 
 
 He added that among most students that approached him with problems like lack of concentration, stress, depression, hormonal disturbances, decreased hours of sleep and daytime sleepiness, the increasing trend of using cellphones in bed was found to be the root cause.
 
 “One must not disturb the natural sleeping pattern. A biological clock in the human body calculates all activities. It decides when the body should be asleep and when it must wake up. Sleep should be in proportion to the needs of the body,” Jain said.
 
 City-based psychiatrist, Dr Ram Ghulam Razdan also attributed cellphone usage during bedtime as the main reason that adversely affects sleeping patterns among students.
 
 “In the long run, sleep deprivation can lead to serious health issues like obesity, cardiovascular disease and diabetes. Besides, radiations from cellphones also cause major health issues,” he added.
 
 In a study conducted by a group of four MBBS students from MGM College, students complained that headaches, eye and earaches, dry, watering and itching eyes were some of the problems they faced while using cellphones in bed.
 
 The researchers highlighted that sleep plays an important role in repairing and healing heart and blood vessels, relieving stress and regenerating brain supporting cells while sleep deficiency leads to increasing risk of heart and kidney disease, high blood pressure, diabetes and stroke and obesity.
 
 Based on the findings of the study, the MBBS students recommended decreased cellphone usage at night to prevent stress, depression, hormonal disturbance, disturbance of circadian rhythm, decreased sleep duration and increased daytime sleepiness. Besides, mobile phones should be kept away from bed as it emits electromagnetic radiations which affect health of both sexes equally in one way or another and phones should be used with low brightness when used at night.
 
 
 
 
 The use of cellphones during bedtime has resulted in users not responding to natural sleeping patterns, leading to loss of sleep or abnormal sleeping experience.
 
 
 
 
 Using cellphones for extended periods of time can lead to headaches, eye/earache, stress and serious health issues due to mobile radiation including increasing the risk of cancer.
 
 
 
 Loss of sleep, daytime sleepiness, lack of concentration, difficulty in remembering and recalling things. In the long run, it can lead to serious health related issues including obesity and diabetes.
 
 
 
 They should cut down using cellphones during bedtime and should keep it away from bed to avoid radiation. Besides, one should not rely on its alarm but respond to the senses generated by the biological clock working in the body. Regular exercise and good diet help in sleeping well. Good sleep results in a fresh, sound memory and increased concentration.
 
