THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: As the district wilts under one of the worst droughts in the past one decade, the   has decided to revive alternatives considered long redundant. The department has taken up the task of upgrading 569   in the district connected to borewells, providing much needed relief to families mostly in rural areas in the district who have been completely deprived of all water sources since January. The department has already completed upgrading 530 hand pumps and 29 pumps were found to be beyond repair.

 The project which will cost Rs 58.8 lakh (with upgrading and repair of each hand pump costing Rs 10,340) covers 55 panchayats. “These hand pumps used to cater to the needs of 3-4 families when we had installed it in various places. Later the pumps went out of use and now we decided to revive these pumps as a last resort to provide a sustainable option for water. This is the biggest upgrading and repair scheme we have undertaken ever since the department installed hand pumps,” said a senior ground water department official.
 
 The hand pumps source water from borewells dug to the depths of 120-140 feet. In some cases, borewells are 80 feet deep. It was during a recent visit to various panchayats in the district, the ground water department officials realized the gravity of the situation. “We found people going to a small pond in a place called Chootayil near   for various needs. People from nearby areas used to come by autos every day. The area had many water schemes launched in the past, but with drought hitting the area like never before, all these schemes have become useless,” an official said.
 
 The revival of hand pumps was given priority considering the fact that other options like ground water recharge would provide a solution only in the long run and that it would require continuous showers. “We have to address immediate needs and in some of the places people are coming in trucks to collect water from hand pumps we have upgraded,” said an official. The GWD has installed around 1,500 hand pumps in the district.
 
 The mission began following the findings of a comparison of data which showed that 79.4% borewells in the district marked a drop in water level by 0-2 m. Besides water levels in various panchayats in Chirayinkeezhu, Nedumangad, Neyyatinkara and Thiruvananthapuram taluks have dipped to levels ranging between 1m to 6m.
 
 Thirty five water schemes implemented in various pancahayats and were almost phased out have also been revived. In addition to this, 12 new water schemes have been launched by the department which could cater to 40 families in a locale where water authority has not laid pipelines.
 
 
