: Being active on Sunday mornings was never a preference for Noidawallahs, but this Sunday saw many residents opening their arms to a beautiful morning welcoming the second edition of  . The event attracted many people to make the most of the variety of activities, games and sessions that covered the 1km stretch outside the  .

  
  A girl tries some of the moves at a fitness session (BCCL/ Lokesh Kashyap)
 
 
  
  In the event, people enjoyed a range of activities like skating, cycling, skateboard riding, volleyball and badminton. There were also many dancercise (dance and exercise) sessions that the residents enjoyed to the fullest.  , a resident of Noida Sector 27 said, "I have come here for the first time. I missed it the last time. This time, I told my son that we have to ensure that we make it." People from south Delhi also turned up at the event when they got to know about the fitness activities.  , who owns a skate park in south Delhi, was seen teaching his kids how to ride a skateboard. He said, "We came here early in the morning and have been skateboarding here. When I got to know about Happy Streets, I made sure that I came here because this area has a lot of space for skateboarding and South Delhi has none."
 
  
  Pedal away: A girl rides her bike in the event
 
 
  The event started with a   session by FITCO, in which Noidawallahs tapped their feet to Bollywood songs. After that there was a Zumba session by Ecole Fitness. The fitness sessions were followed by a street play that focused on awareness in youth about mental disorders. There was a flute performance by Pravesh Sahaj, who also played the guitar in the band performance, which played songs like 'Allah Ke Bande' and 'Kabira'.
 
  
  Madhukar Malhotra, emcee
 
 
 
 Most of the participants were impressed that such an initiative was started in Noida as it was leading people to a healthy and happier lifestyle. Happy Streets focuses on the use of non-motorised transport in order to reduce air pollution and traffic chaos. Also the aim is to ensure community development and engagement and overall fitness. Ashita Arora, who participated in badminton, Zumba and cycling said, "This initiative makes us feel good about ourselves. It's keeping me fit and happy. My 8-year-old son Tanush has made new friends here."
 
  --Priyanka.Narula@timesgroup.com
 
 
