NEW DELHI: Concerned over fire safety and emergency preparedness in  , the Delhi high court ordered on Monday random inspection of the area in the late evening hours. It also pulled up police and the   (SDMC) for allowing eating joints to come up “neck to neck“ in violation of building laws and the master plan in the area.

 “In Hauz Khas Village, more than a 100 restaurants are running today . Petitioners complain that apart from blatant violation of municipal and other statutes, the running of these restaurants provides a grave security and fire hazard and crowd in the area makes it impossible for an emergency vehicle to access the area,“ the   said. bench of acting chief A justice Gita Mittal and C Hari Shankar observed, “Restaurants are running neck to neck in that small area in violation of building bylaws and the master plan. Restaurants are located one on top of another.“ The court demanded affidavits from all the agencies how licences were issued to properties for usage, against the master plan.
 
 The bench stressed that “time and again“ it has told the authorities not to permit conversion of residential buildings without following the building bylaws and the master plan requirements.
 
 “You have permitted Kingsway Camp and Lado Sarai to become a nuisance.How are you permitting violation of master plan here?“ the bench asked SDMC, giving all agencies time till August 2.
 
 The court was hearing two PILs alleging “unlawful existence“ of restaurants, pubs, fashion studios, bars serving liquor without licence, art galleries and other buildings in the village.
 
 The petitioners, social activist Pankaj Sharma and advocate Anuja Kapur, have alleged that there are over 120 restaurants and pubs running in the area without any building plan approval or no objection certificate (NOC) from the authorities, including the fire department.
 
 They have argued that running of these restaurants poses a grave security risk and fire hazard and, apart from that, the crowd in the area makes it impossible for emergency vehicles like ambulances and fire trucks to gain access.
 
 
