Nagpur: Comparing the current socio-political scenario to that of the seventies,   filmmakers Saba Diwan, Rahul Roy and Satya Rai Nagpal feel that there is a simmering discontent which is pouring out from social media platforms available today. “There is so much of churning happening across various groups which we are learning about through social media platforms,” says Roy. The trio is in the city to participate in a three-day Cinema of Resistance film fest underway at Dhanwate National College.

 Diwan and Roy are also founders of ‘Not In My Name’ campaign against mob lynching. Giving the example of protest spearheaded by them against the killing of Muslim boy Junaid after an altercation for a seat on a train, Diwan says that she just expressed her feelings on social media and people rallied round it. “Our call was not of any political party. But it found resonance in the feelings of common people,” says Diwan.
 
 Protests now are emerging out of the shadows of political parties, feels Roy. “The space for non-political protests has been shrinking. In today’s scenario, there is no strong opposition to the government too. But there is an undercurrent of anxiety and anger which is being vent through such protests,” he says, pointing at the ongoing farmers’ protests across many states.
 
 The growing disenchantment with mainstream media is also pushing the younger generation towards alternative mediums, feels Nagpal. “If you compare the views of older generation who still depends on mainstream print and electronic media with those of youth who rely on online content, the fault lines would become clear.” Drawing attention to uprisings in the Middle-East lately, the filmmakers say that new platforms provided by social media made it possible. “The power of social media is apparent from Amit Shah’s statement when he advised youth to not pay attention to what is being said about BJP on social media. This shows that the troll army let loose by the party has boomeranged on it,” says Nagpal as he terms the medium anarchic.
 
 The sheer scale and volume of images that are being created today is enormous, feels Roy. “The manner in which it is being received is very new. Now the real moments are being transformed into images at a very high speed by almost every one. This is creating a dilemma for the documentary filmmaker about what his role would be,” he says. “I have totally removed myself from this process of documenting reality as it has lost the romance it once had,” says Nagpal. But all three admit that the youth is more hooked to reality today. “Previously, we had to organize our film fests at schools and colleges. Today, they invite us to show our content,” says Diwan. Terming film festivals like Cinema of Resistance as filters for the huge amount of material available, Roy says, “It’s more about curating. Festivals like these pick up what is relevant to contemporary themes and also help in screening of meaningful films which could not be released.”
 
 
