(HATHRAS/ETAH): Uttar Pradesh chief minister and   national president Akhilesh Yadav on Tuesday said that there was no place for loyalists of   in the party. Though Akhilesh did not name his uncle, he unambiguously told his audience at a rally in Hathras that those who were not with him in his “fight” for the party had no place in the SP. “Some insiders are responsible for the discord in the party, and the same people are either instigating or directly opposing our candidates in the polls,” he said.
 
  Though Akhilesh did not say anything about his father directly, the rift between them was apparent as photos of erstwhile party supremo Mulayam Singh Yadav were conspicuously missing from posters put up by the SP-Congress alliance.
  
  Earlier in the day, in Etah district, the CM made an emotional appeal to voters and said these elections would not only decide the country’s fate, but his own too. “If I lose, those people who had earlier tried to create a rift in the party would succeed in their designs and get the opportunity to target me,” he said.
  
  Addressing an election rally for the SP candidate from Sikandra Rao constituency in Hathras district, Yashpal Singh Chauhan, Akhilesh warned the public to be careful of people who, he said, "were from the party but were instigating opposition to SP candidates".
  
  Expressing his concerns at the damage caused to the party due to infighting in the Yadav clan, Akhilesh said, “Pehle to cycle ke liye hi ladna pada, ek samay aisa laga ki cycle haath se chali jayegi, lekin cycle phir mil gayi… socho ki upar wala bhi hamare aur aapke sath kis tarha khada hua hai” (First we had to fight for our symbol; at one point of time it seemed that we would lose it, but then god has stood by you and us).”
  
  Targeting his adversaries, Akhilesh said "such leaders" would not even stand by the public. He reiterated that the SP had no place for those who had deserted him. “Now we have an alliance with the Congress and the results of this election will decide the future of India,” he said.
  
  Expressing confidence that the SP would have won 250 seats on its own, the chief minister said the alliance with the Congress would ensure that they cross the 300 seat mark.
  
  Targeting the Narendra Modi government at the Centre, Akhilesh said, “This government had promised ‘achhe din’ but they ended up adding to the miseries of people with their ill-conceived demonetisation plan. Contrary to Modi’s claim that the move targets black money, neither that nor the issue of corruption has been resolved.”
