Hyderabad: Infosys co-founder N R Narayana Murthy on Wednesday urged the central as well as state governments to increase spend on the public healthcare system in India as it is one of the lowest in the world.

 Murthy warned that if the government fails to adequately focus on the public healthcare system, its dreams of leveraging the country’s demographic dividend will be “shattered”. “Even as we must invest more in R&D in the sphere of science and technology, the capacity of the public health system to deliver cannot lag behind. It is, therefore, very vital for the government, both at the federal and state level, to invest strongly in public healthcare. India’s current spending on public healthcare currently lags way behind developed countries and most of the developing countries in the world,” Murthy said while delivering the keynote address on the final day of BioAsia 2017 here.
 
 Dr Reddy’s Laboratories (DRL) chairman Satish Reddy too had, on Tuesday, echoed a similar sentiment by calling for the government to invest more to improve heath infrastructure in the country.Murthy rooted for a health management and information system (HMIS), where data can be collected and used effectively for predicting the disease burden, issuing an early warning and putting in place a response system to tackle outbreak of diseases. He also added that big data and analytics can be used to decipher large health data sets for better understanding of the influences of environmental and social risk factors. The IT leader, who had last year at the Indian School of Business (ISB) said that Indian IT companies had been acting as “immigration agents” for their employees, refused to talk about the H-1B visa issue and its impact on the Indian IT industry. Preferring to limit his comments to the healthcare sector during his latest visit, he said India has a long way to go in the healthcare sector. “What is somewhat concerning is that we fall behind even our small neighbours like Sri Lanka and Bangladesh in public health issues,” he added.
 
 “Our diphtheria vaccine immunisation rate is just at 72% as against 82% in Nepal and 99% in China. There are a high number of deaths due to diarrhoea because of poor coverage of ORS. The nutritional status across the country is improving but unacceptably high levels of stunting is observed among Indian children…that is 38% of Indian children are stunted. Treatment and cure rates for TB have been improved but multi-drug resistant TB is on the rise,” he said. Pointing out that non-communicable diseases (NCDs) are on rise, Murthy said they account for over 60% of deaths in the country, affecting people primarily in the productive phase of life (35-65 years), which can have a huge economic impact, he added. 
 
 
