BENGALURU: There has been an air of anticipation every time   stepped on to the practice arena in the past last 10 days. Hopes of the   Bangalore skipper's return from injury soared every time he hit the nets.

 The wait is over. Having missed him for the first two weeks of the  , the Bengaluru team will be buoyed by their talisman's availability for the visit of  , at M Chinnaswamy stadium on Friday afternoon.
 
 The 28-year-old Indian skipper, sidelined by a shoulder injury sustained last month, had hinted on social media on Wednesday that he was ready for action. He showed that he was with a lengthy stint at the nets on Thursday. As if to lend further weight to the BCCI's official confirmation about his fitness, he went for big shots under the sun.
 
 The return of Kohli in his team's fourth match of the season signals more than just the promise of runs for last year's finalists, who have failed to click as a unit in their two losses thus far. With their best effort a win against Delhi Daredevils at home last week, Kohli's aggressive brand of play and passion will rub off on his teammates. Be it batting, fielding or leadership, the talented pro gives it his all. Kohli's poor run with the bat in the recently concluded Test series against Australia shouldn't be of any concern. In a different format and a new tournament, the highest run getter (973 runs) of the previous season will be raring to go.
 
 Beyond the hype surrounding Kohli's addition to the playing XI,  's think-tank will have their task cut out in selecting the right combination against a formidable all-round unit from Mumbai.
 
 Having tweaked the team for each of their three games, RCB are likely to do the same again. With Kohli coming in, Kedar Jadhav may resume wicketkeeping duties, which means Vishnu Vinod may lose his place in the XI.
 
 Kohli indicated that given the batting-friendly strip at the Chinnaswamy, it would be difficult to leave out   who is 25 runs short of a landmark 10,000 runs in T20 cricket. Dropping AB de Villiers is not an option, which leaves only two spots for foreign players up for grabs with Shane Watson, Tymal Mills and Billy Stanlake in contention.
 
 Given some of the Mumbai batsmen's liking for spinners, RCB may be tempted to bring in a pacer, either for Iqbal Abdulla or Pawan Negi.
 
 On the other hand, the Rohit Sharma-led visitors may not tinker with their line-up, especially after their domestic heroes have paid good dividends, with Nitish Rana, Hardik Pandya and Krunal Pandya coming good in previous matches. One worry will be the poor form of West Indian big-hitter Kieron Pollard. The Good Friday contest may well boil down to RCB's big three batsmen against Mumbai's versatile bowling attack led by Sri Lankan Lasith Malinga. 
 
 
