HYDERABAD: Even at 87, internationally acclaimed  , K  , has not lost the passion to create magic on celluloid. Days after winning the prestigious   award for his outstanding contribution to cinema, he said he retains the zeal to collaborate with amateurs to make a creative splash on the big screen.

 The director, who catapulted Telugu films on the global platform with Shankarabharanam and   in the Sixties and Seventies, said he’s grateful to the government for acknowledging his work.
 
 “I won’t consider the Phalke award as a recognition of my talent. It was a recognition of my work,” said Vishwanath during a free-wheeling chat with STOI, at his sprawling residence in Filmnagar.
 
 Talking about his style of direction, he said he never wanted to associate with ‘big’ stars to make his ventures successful. “I loved working with amateurs and newbies, be it technicians or actors, as they bring something fresh on the table. They make work even more interesting and give their best when their favourite director gives them the big break. Also, I never believed that associating with a particular person will strengthen my project. I believed in myself and was ready to handle all departments if the need arose,” said Vishwanath. But there’s one thing he’s made up his mind — he won’t direct a film any time soon. Of course, he will continue to act, if a right script comes his way.
 
 “Right now, I don’t have plans of directing a movie. But anything can happen tomorrow, so I won’t commit anything. When it comes to acting, I am still getting offers and even I love to work as it gives me an opportunity to meet new people,” said the stalwart of Telugu movies, whose film Swati Muthyam was India's official entry to the 59th   in the best foreign films category.
 
 Sharing snatches from his journey from a technician to director, Vishwanath said he never consciously tried to switch from one department to another. It happened organically.
 
 “When I was working in the sound department, people like Akkineni Nageswara Rao, Dukkipati Madhusudhana Rao recognised my talent and motivated me to direct a movie. I took some advice from elders and even they said it was better to be a director than a mere technician, that too in the sound department where my talent wasn’t being recognized. After being a second unit director for Mugamanushulu, he also felt confident of continuing in the new role,” he said.
 
 Asked if he would single out a film as his favourite, Vishwanath said: “I like all my movies and feel that a movie should never be judged based on the box-office jingle. For me, content and values are important.” And what about his writing? At times he penned scripts keeping in mind a certain actor, he said. “If a producer said a particular actor was available, I wrote a story that would suit him. That’s how movies like Seethamahalakshmi, Subhodayam, Swayamkrushi, Subaleka happened. ForShankarabharanam, however, the casting was done much later,” he shared.
 
 
