PATNA: Bihar CM and JD(U) national president   will meet Prime Minister   in New Delhi on Saturday. He said PM has invited him for a luncheon meeting hosted for Mauritius PM Pravind Jugnauth.

 “Mauritius has historical bond with Bihar as around 52% of its population have origin in our state. As the Mauritius PM has come to India, PM invited me for a luncheon hosted in his honour. The PM has also accepted my request for a personal meeting on silt management in the Ganga and prevention of floods in Bihar. I will like to utilize the opportunity for other positive discussions as well,” Nitish said after he skipped the meeting called by Congress chief Sonia Gandhi on Friday to discuss about the presidential candidate of the non-NDA parties. 
 
 Though Nitish denied any political motive behind skipping the Sonia meeting, his decision irked his grand alliance partner RJD. “Lagta Hai Ki Unko Prime Minister Ka Bhojan Zyada Tasty Lagta Hai (It seems Nitish finds PM’s lunch tastier),” senior RJD leader Raghuvansh Prasad Singh told TOI. 
 
 Nitish, however, said, “It is a complete misrepresentation that I did not meet Sonia due to political or personal reasons. She had invited all opposition parties and Sharad Yadav represented the JD(U). I did not attend the meeting because I had already discussed the issue with her and conveyed my party’s stand.”
 
 Nitish had met Sonia in Delhi on April 20 and requested her to take the initiative for a consensus presidential nominee from the opposition parties. Incidentally, Nitish is keen on a second term for President  .
 
 The Bihar CM was probably the only opposition leader in the country, who supported the Centre’s demonetisation move. Though, later, he criticised the way it was implemented. PM Modi also praised Nitish for liquor ban in Bihar. Besides, political observers found a new political inclination of Nitish as he remained mum on the BJP allegations of benami properties acquired by RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s family. 
 
 Speaking on silt management in the Ganga, Nitish said, “Time and again, I have insisted on spot inspection by a central government team to assess the issue of silt management and prevention of floods in the region. Besides, dredging has also commenced for development of National Waterways-1. I wrote a letter to PM on this issue with a request for a separate meeting on Saturday and he has agreed.”
 
