VADODARA: The recent clashes at   had its effect on M S University as well. Five days after the clashes broke out between the RSS-backed   (ABVP) and left-affiliated   (AISA) in Delhi, MSU campus on Monday witnessed similar clashes between ABVP and a rival students group which had recently parted ways with Congress-backed National Students Union of India (NSUI). 

 The clashes started when members of ABVP’s Vadodara unit reached the main building of MSU’s Faculty of Commerce on Monday afternoon to stage a protest against “anti-nationals” being invited at Delhi University. As a part of its nationwide drive to spread awareness on “anti-national” movement on university campuses, the right wing student outfit had planned to stage a protest at the university’s largest faculty. But as soon as the group reached the faculty, the rival student group, which has a stronghold on the faculty, started objecting to its entry into the campus. 
 
 While ABVP leaders alleged that their peaceful protest was disrupted, the rival group alleged that ABVP leaders misbehaved with some girl students of the faculty. 
 
 The campus witnessed unruly scenes as the student groups started pushing each other despite the presence of university’s vigilance staff which made desperate attempt to bring the situation under control. Some girl students even slapped ABVP supporters. The crowd dispersed only after police reached the spot to bring the situation under control. Later the rival groups rushed to university head office to submit memorandums against each other to MSU officials. “When we reached the faculty for a peaceful protest, they started hurling abuses at us and even called us rapists which aggravated the situation,” said ABVP Vadodara’s secretary Maulik Desai. The “university registrar has assured us of strict action,” he added.
 
 “The ABVP leaders did not listen to the requests made by girl students to stop sloganeering on the campus at a time when examinations are being held at the faculty. Instead of listening to them, they started misbehaving with the girl students,” said MSU Students Union general secretary Hitesh Batra, who has now formed a new group ‘Jai Ho’ after rebelling from NSUI. 
 
 Both the student groups have submitted applications against each other at Sayajigunj police station which is yet to register a complaint regarding the clashes. 
 
 During the melee, P P Kanani, MSU’s security and vigilance officer, lost his gold ring while trying to control aggression of the groups.
 
