AJMER: Rajasthan State Commission for Protection of   will organize rallies against   on Valentine’s Day (February 14), said  , chairperson. She was in Ajmer on Sunday to discuss the situation of child rights in the district. The rallies will have those children who have fought drug addiction as child ambassadors. Chaturvedi said that Ajmer is worst in child drug abuse and therefore they will initiate a program in which rehabilitation centres will soon be set up.

 Talking to the media, she said that she came to know that human trafficking and drug abuse are major problems for children of Ajmer. Hence, she will meet the district collector to open rehabilitation centres in the district so that such children will soon be included in the main stream of the society. She said administration has already identified a place to open such centres.
 
 She said major problem for destitute and poor children is that they do not get affection and love and therefore turn to drug abuse. “It is therefore important to make such children get rid of drugs,” said Chaturvedi.
 
 She accepted that major violations of child rights are in the sector of prostitution, drug abuse and human trafficking and therefore it is also the society’s duty to preserve the future of their city. The commission through different rallies will also try to get the support of the society to provide a better future for the destitute children here.
 
 Meanwhile, dargah region and its surrounding areas are the places where dozens of children are found addicted to drugs like inhaler or shoe polish or cough syrup. City police in last six months caught more than 50 children who are using such drugs.
 
 Sources said that most of the children in the dargah region and also at bus stand are into begging. They later purchase such drugs and then become addicted to them. “Such children can be found under the overbridge on Station Road and the extended platform on railway station,” added a source.
 
 Sources said that under Right to Education, it is the duty of the state to bring every single child to school but in the last seven years there have been no such success stories.
 
