BHOPAL: Left hungry for over 24 hours, agitated   of two trains on the world’s longest   — the 202km   – went on strike leaving thousands of passengers stranded at a station in Morena district of   on Monday morning.

 The up and down trains were stopped at   in Morena and loco-pilots refused to move pressing for their demands. They said the railway canteen was not supplying meals for the last two days.
 
 “They were angry because of meals. Canteen contractor was not ready to supply food on grounds that his payment was due for last four months,” – said R K Meena, station master of Sabalgarh railway station. 
 
 The heritage track, once known as   (GLR) or ‘Maharaja Railways of India’, is now part of North Central Railway (NCR). Railways are looking forward to replace the narrow gauge tracks with broad gauge because of “undue expenditure”. A proposal of Rs 1,500 crore for this is pending with the Centre, sources said.
 
 Meena tried to convince the loco pilots and the canteen operator for a while and then gave up. Both trains were delayed by nearly two hours in the chaos.
 
 NCR has kept a staff of eight persons for these two trains including four loco pilots and their assistants. These trains travels at a speed limit of 20 to 30 kilometres per hour but commutes hundreds of people from 13 different stations on the route.
 
 There had been several sabotage attempts to plague the narrow gauge tracks that dates back to 1895. Some of the derailment bid were foiled by the alertness of the motorman.
 
 A few months ago miscreants had placed around 70 stone slabs on the two-foot-wide tracks, jeopardising the lives of hundreds of passengers, said officials. As it is the only railway link for towns between these two districts, nearly 1,000 passengers pile on these trains every day, some travelling dangerously on the roof.
 
 “Villagers often keep huge stones on the tracks to ensure that their domestic animals like goats, cows and buffalos can cross the line safely,” said the station master. 
 
 Established by Maharaja Madhav Rao Scindia II, the construction of the track started in 1895 and was completed in 1909. The route connects 28 small towns between Gwalior and Sheopur. In 2009, the Centre had proposed that the tracks be included in UNESCO’s list of world heritage sites. 
 
