AMRITSAR: The delicate issue of gender equality has come to the fore with the Sikh Diaspora questioning the ritual of   not allowed to perform ‘kirtan’ (hymns) in the sanctum sanctorum of the  . While a few Sikh scholars have appealed to the Jathedar of the Akal Takht to ensure that women were given the rights, others have blamed the prevailing patriarchal social system among Sikhs.

 The Jathedar however has maintained silence on the issue. While talking to TOI on Wednesday, Balvinder Kaur Saundh, chair of Sikh Women Alliance, UK, said, “I have been saying for the past 20 years that Guru Nanak and our religion gave us equality. It is the men who have interpreted it to control our religious scriptures.”
 
 She said women should be allowed to perform ‘kirtan’ in the Golden Temple besides other sewa (service), including giving shoulder to palki (palanquin) carrying Guru Granth Sahib. “All women groups should be allowed to do   and take part in all the services,” she said.
 
 Saundh said, “Generally it was said ‘women menstruate so they are unclean.’ If women didn’t have their monthly periods, would men have been born? We are as capable as men to do kirtan sewa.”
 
 UK-based Sikh scholar Kamalroop Singh appealed to the Jathedar of Akal Takht Giani Gurbachan Singh by letting them sing the praises of ‘Waheguru.’ Singh was of view that Sikh religion was founded on the concept of unity and equality. He said women have contributed immensely to the growth of the Sikh religion. 
 
 Malaysia-based humanitarian aid organizer of United Sikhs Rishiwant Singh said Sikhism was the most modern religion in the world and based on the equality of gender, race, religion, caste and creed. “There is no question whether women should be allowed to do sewa of kirtan or not,” he said.
 
 US-based Sikh activist Rajwant Singh said Guru Nanak spoke about women’s rights. “Sikh women have played an important role in strengthening the journey of the faith in the last 500 years. The first Sikh was Bebe Nanki who played a key role in organizing the community during its infancy, also supporting her brother Guru Nanak Dev. Similarly, Mata Khivi, who is the only woman mentioned in the Sikh scriptures, is the main person who popularized langar, a vegetarian community meal which is still in practice. Her daughter, Bibi Amro, was also installed as a Sikh preacher by Guru Amardas—the third Sikh guru.”
 
 When contacted, the Jathedar of Akal Takht Giani Gurbachan Singh said, “I have no opinion on this issue.”
 
 
