MUMBAI: Nearly 70% of the new   issued in 2016 went to   in the age group of 18 to 21 even as the   in the city recorded an   of 28% in the number of new licences issued last year as compared to 2015, sources said. 

  Transport experts warned that with the increase in number of driving licences being issued, there should also be a 'sensitization programme', especially for the youth, on safe driving and following rules. At least 70% of accidents in the city between January 2012 and December 2015 were because of the driver's negligence . 
 
 "Youngsters should be sensitized on safe driving and compulsorily wearing a helmet even on short- distance rides," transport expert Ashok Datar said.
 
 A V Shenoy of   said that bikers were often seen jumping signals, driving in wrong the direction and not stopping at zebra crossings. "There is need for self-discipline and a training programme at the time of issuing of licences," he said.
 
 A senior RTO official from Tardeo said more than 10,000 citizens apply for new licences every month.
 
 "In the initial years after the online registration system was introduced (2014-15), there was a drop in number of licences being issued. One of the reasons was transparency in the system, with touts not being able to influence officials to get licences cleared," the official said. "Also, cases of bogus documents dropped significantly and the number of licences issued in Mumbai in 2015 was 34% lesser than the previous year."
 
 Now, with citizens being more comfortable with the online system and RTO officials expediting the process of issuing of licences, the pace has now picked up. "In the past, our officials took three or four days to issue a learner's licence. Now, we are giving it within a couple of hours after conducting tests. Also, the permanent licence reaches you by post within a week," a senior official said, adding that the number of applicants too has shot up up considerably.
 
 The RTO has set up a helpline to assist those registering for a learner's licence online. At present, the RTO at Wadala has a helpdesk which also assists candidates in uploading documents (proof) online. In a few days, it plans to introduce a new software for permanent driving licence, under which you will not only register online but will also pay fees and upload documents from home. You will just have to come to the RTO with the original documents and appear for the test. This expedites the process and ensures that more citizens take tests on a single day.
 
 Deputy RTO Subhash Pedamkar said there is transparency in the new system and citizens need not approach touts. Transport commissioner Praveen Gedam said that he has directed all the 50 RTOs across the state, including four in Mumbai, not to show any leniency during the driving test. "Records of the last couple of months show that during the tests, nearly 25% failed in some of the RTOs," he said.
 
 However, in 2016, there was an increase in the number of youngsters getting new licences. Transport expert Ashok Datar said that two-wheelers were increasingly unsafe and the cause of several mishaps. "Youngsters should be sensitized on safe driving and compulsorily wearing a helmet even on short- distance rides," he said.
 
 A V Shenoy of Mumbai Transport Forum said that bikers were often seen jumping signals, driving in wrong the direction and not stopping at zebra crossings. "There is need for self-discipline and a training programme at the time of issuing of licences," he said.
 
 
