NAVI MUMBAI: The residents of Railway Society in sector 2, Vashi, are alarmed after the water potability   of NMMC and that of a private laboratory have come up with contradictory findings on the level of contamination in   taken from the housing society supply.

 The private lab report confirms the microbial presence of coliforms and E coli in the samples provided. But, as per NMMC’s lab report, no such presence was found. 
 
  Many residents of New Bombay Railway Men’s Co-op Housing Society have been suffering from gastro ailments which prompted the society to approach the NMMC to test its water quality. 
 
 “There were many instances of society members falling ill due to stomach related ailments. Even the consulting doctors said that consuming contaminated water may have caused them. As we have independent water tanks, we sought help of the NMMC,” said treasurer of the society, Mukul Gupta.
 
  The society members, comprising 45 row houses and around 150 residents, are currently consuming water only after boiling since the findings, he added.
 
 The civic body collected samples from the main water pipeline on July 7 and the report stating the water to be safe for consumption was given on July 12. 
 
 However, the society remained unconvinced and sent another set of samples to a private lab.
 
 “There is a clear contradiction between the reports of the water samples from NMMC and the private lab which raises a lot of questions about its veracity about the findings,” added Gupta.
 
  BJP Vashi ward unit has accused NMMC of neglecting the issue. The party has also sought a probe from the commissioner on the manner in which the water samples were collected and tested.
 
 “No proper procedure was followed during sample collection. The findings of microbial presence now raises concern for the health of the other residents in the society who are consuming the same water,” said president for ward 69, Rohit Malhotra.
 
  Civic commissioner N Ramaswami stated that the society’s water tank may have caused the contamination. 
 
 “Since the source is the same and no other areas are facing similar problems, the cause of contamination, as stated by the civic engineering department, is due to lack of maintenance of the society’s water tank. But I will ask the department to re-examine the issue,” he said.
 
