BHUBANESWAR: The   ( ) will start a massive awareness drive for segregation of waste at source ( ) from June 1. It will come into effect a month later. 

 The drive aims to educate people on how to separate different kinds of waste in their homes before dumping it in the main dustbins near their localities. The mass media, social media and door-to-door campaigns are among the awareness campaign modes to be used. 
 
 "We have planned a sustainable management of the waste whereby people will have to give the degradable and recyclable waste to door-to-door waste collectors in separate containers. People of the localities, where the waste collectors don't go, can dump the waste in the nearest dustbins from where the waste transportation vehicles can lift those, said mayor  .
 
 In February, the BMC asked 83 apartments,16 hospitals, 34 hotels, eight restaurants, 22 markets and two temples to make their own provisions of segregating waste at source by installing three separate bins. Trade licenses of hotels, hospitals, apartments, restaurants and markets will not be renewed if they fail to do so, while others will be asked to pay penalty.
 
 For household waste segregation, the BMC will orgainse a workshop involving the members of various resident welfare associations, sanitary workers and private contractors entrusted with waste collection and dumping for sharing knowledge on waste segregation. The welfare bodies will disseminate information among people. Other awareness tools include advertisements in newspapers and announcements in FM radio. NGOs will also be involved in the process. 
 
 To stop people from littering on roads, the BMC in January installed twin dustbins at 3,600 locations. While the green is meant for degradable waste, the blue one is meant for recyclable waste. In another development, the government on Wednesday held a high-level meeting to discuss setting up of waste-to-energy treatment plant at Bhuasuni in Daruthenga village. The meeting was attended by top officials such as chief secretary  , police DG K B Singh, twin cities police commissioner Y B Khurania and home secretary Asit Tripathy.
 
