PUDUCHERRY: Surgeons at Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research ( ) will soon use   technologies and 3D models to perform complex surgeries with higher success rates.

 Jipmer director S C Parija dedicated the 3D printer to the facility on Monday after technicians underwent training in handling the printer. 3D printers worldwide have been revolutionising healthcare, especially surgeries, but letting surgeons print out prostheses and models of organs on which they can rehearse complex surgeries before performing them on the patient.
 
 High-end efforts are also on to print body parts. While getting an organ or even a tissue for transplant may still be some time away in this part of the world, the Jipmer facility is expected to help surgeons sharpen their skills and do tailor-made surgeries. So far surgeons here have been using 3D models on computer screens to study complex cases. Now the models printed out will make operations safer and more accurate.
 
 “The facility is bound to help us higher success rates with complex surgeries,” said Dr Dinesh Kumar, head of the department of plastic  . He cited the example of a road accident victim who may now benefit from the facility. “A patient was brought to the hospital with head injuries. A team of doctors surgically removed a part of the skull to allow the brain to expand and reduce the pressure building up inside the skull. The patient recovered in a couple of months. Now we have to fill the removed part of the skull with implants made of poly methyl methacrylate (PMMA),” he said.
 
 Surgeons will soon design 3D models of the bone implant and the part of the skull where the implant has to be fixed. They would study in detail and plan the strategy to perform the surgery. “We will also do surgical simulations using the models before the surgery,” said Dr Kumar. 
 
 The department of plastic surgery performs 300 to 400 surgeries a month. The surgeries are mainly to correct deformity following injuries sustained by patients in accidents and to correct congenital defects like cleft lip and cleft palate.
 
