PUNE: The Pune police's initiative to provide an interface in the form of "Police Kaka", an official of the rank of assistant sub-inspector (ASI), to respond to and resolve issues faced by students in schools and colleges in the city and   is picking up momentum ever since its introduction in August. At least four matters reported to the "Police Kakas" have so far been resolved and students are increasingly showing awareness about the efficacy of contacting them when in need.

 For instance, a group of students of a college on   was harassing their female classmates and did not allow two girls to sit on the benches. The students did not acknowledge the pleas of the girls and their class teacher.
 
 The girl students had then called up the "Police Kaka" and policeman rushed to the school.The group of the students was summoned to the principal's office and counselled.
 
 In another instance, a Class XI student of a junior college in   had to be counselled by the Police Kaka following a complaint that he had tried to outrage the modesty of a woman teacher in the institute.
 
 Around 1,200 schools and colleges across Pune and   are covered under the initiative and police commissioner Rashmi Shukla has so far designated 175 ASIs for these institutions. Their cellphone numbers are provided to the school authorities and students.
 
 Shukla said the "Police Kaka" scheme was becoming popular among school and college students. She added, "If a student is troubled by another for no reason, the one in distress is calling the 'Police Kaka' freely.Many student just scare the tro uble makers, saying that they are calling 'Police Kaka'."
 
 Shukla said the policemen were counselling the students and also urging them not to trouble each other.
 
 Police have decided to bring all schools and colleges under the ambit of the scheme after a seven-year-old student was found murdered on the premises of a Gurugram institute.
 
 Deputy commissioner of police (cyber & economics) Sudhir Hiremath said posters have been prepared for schools and each poster has the phone number of the "Police Kaka" concerned. Assistant commissioner of police Ganesh Gawade said the aim was to expand the scheme to 1,695 institutes in the city.
 
