Margao: The two-day visit to Goa by BJP national president   was part of his 95-day whirlwind tour of India for organisational mobilisation of the party. While it has indeed served to invigorate the rank and file of the party, political observers said Shah adopted tactical yet subtle methods in his attempts at an image-building exercise and party development plans during his visit. 

 Known as an electoral strategist, Shah, from his interaction with the party workers and office bearers, strived to get a broader understanding of the political climate of the state and the party’s progress since it electoral debut in 1994, sources in the BJP told TOI. 
 
 “This is the first time any national president of the BJP spent two days in every state, and obviously this has had an overbearing effect on the karyakartas. They are now geared up to take the party to greater heights in the 2019 polls,” South Goa MP Narendra Sawaikar said. 
 
 Political observers said Shah’s organisational strength lay in his ability to give more prominence to grassroots workers and gain their confidence in the party-building exercise. This was evident in his address during the opening of the party’s district office at Margao, where Shah indulged in a pep-talk with party workers. 
 
 “BJP is one party where every worker associates with it just like he would with his family. This differentiates it from other political parties. In the BJP’s journey since its Jana Sangh days until now, the ordinary karyakarta have been its focal point. In all other parties, the focus is on the leaders,” Shah said.
 
 Political observers said Shah’s engagement with the karyakartas at an emotional level soothed some frayed nerves among a section of party workers who were beginning to feel alienated, largely owing to the dominance of the alliance partners in the coalition government. 
 
 Political observers felt Shah’s visit was also strategically aimed at an image makeover, particularly following the party’s debacle in the 2017 assembly elections. The party’s tally came down to 13 from 21. This is Shah’s second visit to the state following the February 2017 assembly polls. 
 
 “His cleverly crafted statements over seemingly controversial issues – beef politics, cow vigilantism, et al – and his meetings with industrialists and professionals, including media editors, and with coalition partners, were aimed at increasing the ideological acceptance of the party,” a political observer said.
 
 Party insiders said the takeaways from Shah’s visit were threefold. “The biggest takeaway from Amit Shah’s Goa visit was the galvanising effect it has had on the party cadre. Even the few workers who had moved to a rebel camp, hinted at a comeback by attending Amit Shah’s meetings. Secondly, he guided the party in charting an action plan for the consolidation of its strength and a road map for preparation for the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Thirdly, Amit Shah’s Goa mission projected the party’s development model of governance in his trademark aggressive manner,” a core BJP member said.
 
 
