GURUGRAM: Two days after a   was crushed to death when the   of a   that was being used for construction work fell on his  , police said they were still on the lookout for the crane driver who had been absconding since Wednesday. 

 Assistant commissioner of police (Manesar) Dharambeer Singh told TOI that the crane’s hook fell on the autorickshaw while it was lifting pipes from the site where an underpass was being constructed. “The   took place owing to negligence on part of the crane operator. The investigators are trying to track him,” he said, adding that it was not known if required permissions were taken for carrying out construction at that time, and if the builder received clearance for the construction work from the traffic police.
 
 “We will have to examine the records, and it will be done through proper channels. It cannot be rushed,” he said, adding that a strict action would be taken against the guilty. 
 
 The underpass is being built by Gawar construction company, which is the  . A representative of the company said the media was “giving unnecessary attention to the incident”. He said, “An accident is an accident. It can take place anywhere. Every minute an accident happens somewhere or the other. This incident is being treated like a murder, though it’s a mere accident.”
 
 He claimed that the crane was sublet to another company, and was off the construction site at the time of the incident. Asked how a part of an “offsite” crane could come crashing down on a moving autorickshaw, the representative said it was “just an accident”. He also claimed that it didn’t happen because anyone was “drunk while operating machinery, but happened by chance”.
 
 The family of Sachin, the auto driver who was   on the spot, and Abhishek Mallik, who suffered grievous injuries, said they had not received any updates from the police, and alleged that no action was taken even two days after the incident. 
 
 “We are pained. I haven’t been able to contact the investigating officer on Thursday. The SHO told me that they were looking for the crane driver. Why isn’t the construction company which was responsible for the project being questioned? ” said Shamsher Singh Malik, the father of Abhishek Malik, who underwent a surgery of Friday morning in a private hospital in the city. A relative of Sachin said the family would be undergoing tough times since he was the sole bread winner. “Also, his father is a heart patient,” he said. Sachin is survived by his wife and a 10-year-old son. 
 
 National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) officials in   did not respond to numerous calls made by TOI.
 
 Sub inspector Dharmender, who is investigating the case, said, “Police are looking for the crane driver. It will be clear who was at fault,” he said.
 
 
