CHENNAI: Sasikala’s imminent entry into the Fort St George is causing unease in the bureaucracy. Many feel there could be instability once again as   is expecting SC verdict in the disproportionate assets case any time. Moreover, she lacks administrative experience.

 The state had been going through a tough time ever since Jayalalithaa’s conviction by a special court in Bengaluru in 2014. There was lack of governance as the government had slipped into a slumber. Then came the 2015 floods and assembly elections in 2016. When things were getting back to normalcy, Jayalalithaa was hospitalized. In effect, only in the last two months there was a semblance of functioning of the state government.
 
 “A change of guard now is bad for the state. It will set the clock back,” said a senior bureaucrat. The bureaucracy was getting used to Panneerselvam’s style of administration. “He was cordial with officials and thanks to his experience, he used to respond to issues fast. The state’s response to cyclone Vardha is a telling example. He never allowed files to pile up. Moreover, he was always accessibile to officials. All that will stop once Sasikala takes over,” said the official.
 
 Hardly any official shares a personal rapport with Sasikala. Moreover, the influence of her clan is a cause of worry. Some are even contemplating of Central deputation. “This year, lots of officials may opt for Central deputation because it will be an oligarchy in the state with many heads resulting in anarchy,” said an IAS officer.
 
 After booting out three bureaucrats, including adviser to government Sheela Balakrishnan, perceived as Jayalalithaa’s loyalists, Sasikala camp is keen on bringing their close associates at the helm of affairs. A major shake-up is likely next week for IAS and IPS officers who have been stuck in some departments for more than three years. “Transfers are bound to happen. But we are mandated to take forward the decision and policies of the government, come what may,” another official said, pointing to the impending budget preparations.
 
 
