NEW DELHI: Uber, the "cheapest" ride in town, just got more expensive. In a surprise move, the taxi-aggregating company has hiked the " " of its  , increasing it from Rs 1 per minute to Rs 1.5 per minute. This is across all the categories of the vehicles, specifically UberGo and UberX.

 UberPool is calculated as a percentage of the UberGo rates, company representatives said.
 
 "Starting January 5, 2017, we have made some changes to our pricing structure in Delhi, NCR to serve the city better. We have communicated this to our riders," the company said in a statement.
 
 For commuters, the hike in fare is likely to be significant if the travel is done during peak hours, when the taxi aggregating company already charges a peak fare.
 
 
 
 
 Ride time" fare is the total time taken in a trip. The trip fare is broken into base fare, time taken and distance travelled. If you travel by UberGo, the base fare is Rs 40 and distance fare Rs 6 per km up to 20km. The ride time on this was Re 1 per minute earlier. So if you travelled 10km, the fare was Rs 40 plus 60 (Rs 6 into 10km) plus Rs 1 into time taken to travel. If the time taken is one hour, then the earlier fare would come to 160, while the fare now would be 190.
 
 Talking about the change,  , a regular commu- ter, said, "The increase in ride time is a double whammy. We anyway pay more for peak hour travel, now the fare will be higher because of increase in the ride time."
 
 Interestingly, the base fare of UberGo remains the same at Rs 40 but the minimum fare on the category is Rs 60. This means that even if you travel only a kilometer, you will still need to pay Rs 60 for the ride. The same applies for its UberX category, which has a base fare of Rs 55 but a minimum fare of Rs 69.
 
 Ola, Uber's competitor, meanwhile, is continuing with its promotions on pool share and other vehicle category, confirmed officials.
 
 While company officials refused to comment, sources said that the company was waiting to see the impact of the hike on the taxi aggregating giant.
 
 Uber had a few months ago increased its fare per km as well. The rate of Rs 6 per km had been hiked to Rs 12 per km for UberGo and Rs 13 per km for UberX, but this was for distances travelled beyond 20km.
 
