KOLKATA: A 12-year-old   of  , who recently gave birth to a child making her possibly Bengal’s youngest mother, has now got a   certificate from the school where she used to study before her life turned upside down.

 The girl and her family have alleged that the school’s headmistress had humiliated her, accusing her of bringing a “bad name” to the school and forcing her to leave the school. Not so, the school headmistress has claimed. But the questions she raised while denying the girl’s charges showed how life would have been unbearable for her even if she had managed to stay back at the school.
 
 “Guardians have no hatred for the girl. Rather they have mass sympathy for her. But they came and told me that they feared she would discuss her ‘sexual exploitation’ with her classmates. They did not want their children to know about such things,” the headmistress said on Thursday. “They asked me whether I would be able to answer their children’s queries if they asked me about rape. A section of the faculty was confused about how a girl could be raped this way without anyone in the family knowing about it. There seems to be something amiss. Why didn’t the family be more protective about the girl? Male faculty members also feared that she might level false allegations of physical assault against them,” she said. 
 
  “Anyway, since our school is up to Class VII, she would have had to seek admission in a different school after six months. So, I suggested that the process of transfer began now. The family was convinced and asked for a transfer certificate,” she added.
 
 The girl’s family said the questions she faced were so “deeply insulting” that the girl’s grandfather asked the school to immediately issue her a transfer certificate. They are now trying to get her admitted to a different school with the hope that a   will be treated with a little more respect there.
 
 The girl had gone to school on April 9 and 10 for some cultural programmes. None of her classmates misbehaved with her. The situation changed later when she went to attend classes. “In front of her, the headmistress said she had brought disrepute to the school. She also claimed that as many as 40 guardians had complained to the school authorities saying that they didn’t want such a ‘dirty girl’ to study along with their children,” the girl’s aunt alleged when the family came to Medical College for the first check-up of the baby since she was born on March 8.
 
 Even lady teachers had allegedly joined the headmistress in talking about how she had spoilt the school’s “reputation”. “The worst was that they made all these allegations in front of her. When we wanted to get a court order to allow her to continue with her studies, we were told that the administration would prefer to shut down the school rather than allowing her to study,” the girl’s aunt added.
 
 The girl said, “I was told that guardians had raised objections and didn’t want me to study there.” “She was born on July 1, 2005, and isn’t even 12 yet. She still plays with toys and it’s me who is taking care of her baby. Even now all she is concerned about is having chocolates and cold drinks,” her aunt said.
 
 The humiliation in school was too much for the family to take and the girl’s grandfather asked the headmistress to issue a transfer certificate on April 28. “How much more will she suffer? The rapist has been arrested. But there are five others against whom we had complained. They are all roaming around freely. Cops aren’t making efforts to arrest them. I will still continue with that battle of getting the guilty arrested but I refuse to let her go through so much of humiliation,” said the girl’s grandfather, who was earlier assaulted and even accused in a kangaroo court of having raped the girl.
 
 The victim’s father, however, now intends to shift her to another school that is 15 km away from his residence. “I have written a letter to this new school authorities. It has been forwarded with a recommendation by water resources minister Rajib Banerjee. I am hoping that she can start life afresh,” he said. What if similar reservations are raised in the new school? “I couldn’t take the humiliation in the earlier school and hence, chose to ask for a TC. But if such a thing happens again, I will have to take the help of law,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, the family is also awaiting the reports of the DNA test to ascertain the parentage of the baby. “Nobody tells us when the reports will come through. Doctors at the Medical College who examined the baby told us that we must approach our chief minister Mamata Banerjee for justice and financial help to take care of my niece and the baby. We will soon do that,” the girl’s aunt said.
 
 
 
 
