Coimbatore: After a lull of six months, the civic body has again begun to crack the whip on those selling   below 50 microns. On Tuesday, a team of officials from the   seized five tonnes of banned plastic bags from wholesale shops at   in the city. The total cost of the seized bags is estimated at Rs 3.5 lakh.

 The civic body had seized 500kg of banned plastic bags during a raid conducted six months ago from a shop at Sundarapuram. 
 
 According to assistant city health officer (ACHO)  , they received information around 6.30am on Tuesday that banned plastic bags were being brought from Erode to godowns at Thomas Street and Raja Street. The sanitary workers in the area followed the trucks and kept the officials informed about their movement. At around 10.30am, the two trucks were stopped and five tonnes of plastic bags were seized. Two tonnes of banned plastic bags were seized while being unloaded from a truck on Raja Street. Sanitary officers and inspectors were also present during the raid.
 
 The ACHO said plastics less than 50 microns should not be used as per the New Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016. Civic body officials inspected eight small-scale plastic manufacturers at Velandipalayam. “We found that all the manufacturers in the city are following rules. These banned plastics are coming into the city from nearby districts such as Erode, Salem and some from Kerala,” said a sanitary inspector.
 
 The banned plastic bags are in the custody of the corporation officials and they said that they will take a decision on the penalty amount soon. “We have been creating awareness on the alternative options available and have been urging the residents to stop the usage of plastics. We will soon stick posters in all the shops and grocery stores located in the city. A workshop will also be conducted on March 25 and 26,” said Santhosh Kumar. He added that the raids will continue.
 
 The plastic bags seized will be used by the civic body to lay roads and a portion of it will be handed over to cement companies located in and around the city. 
 
