The scenic locations and numerous temples located across   that embody heritage have definitely been the key factors in attracting tourists to the state. The tourist inflow to the state is so much that TN has been on the top of the list of states that attract maximum domestic tourists for the third consecutive year. Meanwhile, the state’s textile tourism is something that has been seeing a steady growth, of late. On World Tourism Day, today, experts in this field share with us their thoughts on how the   is contributing to the state’s tourism.
A large number of people who are part of textile tourism are export buyers and they frequently visit places likes Coimbatore, Tiruppur, Chennimalai, Erode, etc., say observers. “Erode and Chennimalai are best known for blankets, table linens, etc. These buyers come for textile machinery to Coimbatore. So, when there’s a good inflow of such people, the message gets spread through word of mouth about the textile heritage these places possess,” begins Sreemathy Mohan, who organises   and is a researcher of the state’s textile heritage.
 The availability of handloom, organic cotton and sungudi also attract a lot of textile enthusiasts. Says Sreemathy, “Organic cotton is available in places like Pollachi, Negamam and Vadambacheri. Negamam cotton saris, especially, are very famous. When they make organic cotton saris, they use natural dyes. So, people who are very environment-conscious go for it. There’s a big market for this in Europe also. Meanwhile, in places around Madurai, it is sungudi fabric which is famous. A lot of people who visit the temples around Madurai also drop in at the units where they make sungudi saris. They are specially made by a segment of the Saurashtrian community called Pattunool Karar. The art was kind of lost for some time, but now it’s in revival mode. The saris are dyed in a special way. They tie up the saris in small knots and dye them. When they open the knots after dyeing, there would be white knots wherever they had put the knots. So, there are about 8,000 to 9,000 dots on one single sari. That’s the specialty of sungudi saris. A lot of people come to Madurai to watch these people make sungudi saris. And that adds to the number of textile tourists in the state. And   is another favourite destination of sari buyers. There’s a good difference in the price of saris if you buy directly from Kancheepuram. So, many people who buy for weddings go and buy directly from weaving societies in Kancheepuram.”
 With its rich textile traditions and heritage, trails are regularly organised to many of these places. Sreemathy herself organised a trail two months ago. “It was a one-day trip. When such trails are organised, we take the participants to a weaver’s place and show them the techniques of handloom saris and help them buy saris. We also take them to a temple, take them to a place where Kancheepuram idlis are made, etc. It gives them a complete feel of the city,” shares Sreemathy. 
 Agreeing with Sreemathy is TN Venkatesh, managing director of Co-optex. He says, “The main idea behind such trails is to make people appreciate handloom. We have been doing these trails for the last one year. And we’ve taken people to Kancheepuram, Arani, Madurai and Thanjavur. Interestingly, most of them are young textile enthusiasts and students, and they all come from places as far as Mumbai, Delhi and Ahmedabad.” 
 Apart from domestic tourists, there’s a good inflow of foreign tourists as well to explore the heritage of sari-making in Tamil Nadu. Deepa Krishnan, founder of a tour-organising company, says, “We work in the inbound tourism segment, that is, for overseas visitors to India. We run textile trails all over India, including Tamil Nadu. For most of the first-time visitors to India, their interests lie in the textiles of Rajasthan and Gujarat, where these trails have been running well for many years alongside a highly developed tourism sector. There are several non-profits that have opened up textile museums, and which conduct multi-day residential workshops for these tourists. Alongside this, the facilities for accommodation and guide services are also well developed. In south India, textile trails are a more recent phenomenon. In Tamil Nadu, the main centres for our textile trails are Chennai (to visit Kancheepuram, usually as a one-day trip, and to visit Kalakshetra), Pondicherry (where there are diverse crafts and textiles in the Auroville community, including indigo dyeing, bamboo, leather work, screen printing, etc), and Chettinad (to see the Athangudi tiles and the Chettinad weaves). In Tamil Nadu, our earliest trail with interest in crafts and textiles was in 2014-15, when we had a group of 13 American tourists who visited the Chettinad region (and also went to Rajasthan). Since then, we have had a steady stream of guests coming to Tamil Nadu; usually these are not first-time visitors, but tourists who come back for deeper explorations.”
 
