 will not be billing   for coaching services. The colourful American, multiple-time Grand Slam winner, said he wanted to be on an equal footing with the Serbian rather than paid employee.

 Defending   champion   said he understood Agassi's logic saying money can complicate things between a coach and player. “That can be the case. As a player it's not always easy to hear the truth. Certainly for me. As I've got older, it's become more the case that if I don't feel like I'm getting that from the coach, whoever it is that I'm working with, then it's pointless. You're basically wasting your money,” Murray said. 
 
 Agassi started working with Djokovic during the French Open. The 30-year-old has since reached out to old friend   as the second coach on his team. Money for nothing is not a good place to be, Murray stressed. “You're paying guys to help you and to tell you what's actually going on. It's possible that you have disagreements with that. Obviously coaches, trainers and physios are not right all of the time,” he added. “But you want them to tell you things that you might not necessarily want to hear. It's the only way to improve and get better.”
 
 Murray, who works with the famously stone-faced Ivan Lendl, said honesty is crucial between a coach and player. “When you're younger, it can be a little bit harder to hear some of those things. But I think as you get older, you learn it's really important that the people you have around you are telling you the truth, not just telling you the things that you maybe want to hear,” he finished.
 
 
 
 
 Murray said he plays his best   when he goes with instinct rather than think things through in the course of a point. Not that there is much time for the brain to process all that information at the elite level where the ball struck at a monstrous pace.
 
 “I've been asked when you're playing, what you're thinking, like in the middle of a rally. When you're playing your best what are you thinking?” Murray said. “I feel like I play my best when I'm not thinking. I've told many coaches that.”
 
 The Scot explained, “You're relying on instinct. That's why practice and repetition is extremely important, so when you're out there in a tight moment you don't want to be over analyzing, thinking too much,” he said. “If you are that's when things start to go wrong, especially technically. I think the less you're thinking on the court the better. There is time to think stuff through but it's often that when you are thinking, it's not good, it's bad stuff,” Murray said.
 
 
