NAGPUR: CBSE’s decision to not only scrap the   (CCE) scheme for Std IX-X, but also of bringing uniformity of assessment right from Std VI has evoked mixed reactions from schools.

 Unhappiness stems mostly from the board’s decision to bring in the changes from the next academic session as opposed to giving a buffer of two years for the current   to move out of the system. Students in Std VI-IX will now be assessed in a uniform way for which   has released marking parameters (see box).
 
 About scrapping of CCE scheme, K Dhar, a teacher at   said, “It has both pros and cons. Students were relaxed up till now but now they will face a lot of problems because they'll have to appear for the full course. Students will have to pull up their socks now and cannot be casual about studies now, which I think is a positive thing.” 
 
 Kavita Nimbalkar, a teacher at   (Besa), said, “Students are not used to this new mandate introduced by CBSE. Earlier, students faced a lot of difficult in studying 50% of the syllabus and now they have to study 100% of it so it will be a challenge for them.” 
 
 Students hoped the decision could have been pushed ahead by a year. Swasthi Jain, a student of Std IX said, “I think it was a good decision, though it was implemented suddenly. We are not ready for it and it can totally backfire on us. We have never studied so much ever and it's all too much in one go. I feel that it should've been implemented on the right time, maybe a year later.” 
 
 She added that the idea has merits too saying “we'll understand concepts better and we'll actually be able to keep it on our minds”.
 
 Another Std IX student Drishti Aswani however was not fully convinced with CBSE’s move. “It was not a wise move as it will put additional burden on us,” she said. 
 
 Nafisa Balapurwala, a std X student, said, “I feel relieved because we are moving out of Std X but our juniors will feel the burden.” 
 
 Jeeya Agrawal, a Std X student said, “The decision is good but should have been implemented much earlier. In Std XI and XII, we already need to give full course exam so giving it before would be good practice. It will help us prepare for the much more difficult exams which we will be facing.”
 
 
