CHENNAI: Post-demonetisation, while customers are back to using ATMs as frequently as they used to — cash flows are still an unresolved issue. RBI data shows that in terms of number of transactions the January 2017 figures (71.2 crore) were at par with January 2016 (70.4 crore).

 But in terms of how much people have been withdrawing from ATMs there has been a sharp dip. This January people withdrew Rs 1.51 lakh crore from ATMs, down 30% from last January were usage was at Rs 2.17 lakh crore. “The restricted cash flow has meant, banks are not able to load their ATMs to full capacity, meet the needs of white label operators in rural areas, farmers’ cooperative banks and social-sector schemes, such as old age pensions,” said an SBI official.
 
 “The reality is post-demonetisation, even in March we are operating only 60-70% of our ATMs. We have 4,200 ATMs and our problem is three-fold: 1) We don’t get the requested amount 2) We don’t get it in the denomination we need 3) We don’t get in the places we need,” said K Srinivas, CEO of white-label operator BTI Payments.
 
 Electronic Payment And Services (ECS) president-services Chandrasekhar affirmed the same. He said cash flows were more disrupted in March, compared to February. “We were expecting the situation to gradually normalise. But strangely we were having difficulty getting the banks to supply our needs in the last few weeks. Another problem is that many of Rs 100 notes are soiled, barely passable ATM-fit currency,” said Chandrasekhar. 
 
 RBI data also shows that as on March 10, 2017, currency in circulation was still 30% short at Rs 12.45 trillion, compared to pre-demonetisation figure of Rs 17.97 trillion.
 
 The CEO of a leading ATM white label operator said their ATMs were running out of cash fast. “We operate primarily in rural areas, where our customers largely deal in lower-value transactions. So we’ve been requesting for Rs 100 and Rs 500 notes that offer greater liquidity. Instead of which we’ve been inundated with Rs 2,000 notes.”
 
 BTI’s Srinivas adds, “Since we are not getting cash at many nodal branches in rural areas. We are having to source cash in Bengaluru and travel a few hundred kilometres for disbursement.” 
 
 ATM providers for banks like NCR seem to be faring better than standalone white-label operators. NCR managing director Navroze Dastur said, “In terms of number of ATM transactions I would definitely say March 2017 numbers would have normalised; on par with the same period last year. But in terms of value of transactions I would not be able to hazard a guess.”
 
 
 
