MADURAI: With sand dunes and blue seas, Manapad beach in Tuticorin district is an alluring tourist spot with a tinge of Portuguese architecture in the town. Standing on the beach as a gentle breeze caresses the skin, many yearn to venture a little farther into the sea. It was this temptation that lured the three families who landed on the beach on Sunday evening into exploring the chances of a sea trip. With no active policing on the shores, they found that a merry ride was very much a possibility. 

 "Earlier fishermen took only their acquaintances for a joy ride but rules are strict now. But then, such joy rides still happen during festival times and many may venture into the sea during upcoming Masi magam festival in northern Tamil Nadu," stated   chairman,  . 
 
 "Earning some extra bucks by taking the tourists out on sea trips is risky. Hence, such incidents are not very frequent now. But when our friends keep requesting to take them for a short trip, we tend to give in", says G Arul, president of Country Boat Fishermen at Pamban. They take such visitors for a short ride around one nautical mile inside sea as trips beyond that may leave the visitors sea-sick, according to fishermen. On Sunday too, the fisherman would have attempted to ferry the tourists only for a short distance, they said.
 
 With a 1,076-kilometre-long coast, Tamil Nadu is second only to Gujarat in terms of a coastline but the state's shores are very much underutilised when it comes to coastal tourism. Other than Pulicat lake, Pichavaram and a couple of boats at Rameswaram and Mandapam, there are no venues for tourists to go on a ride into sea. Tamil Nadu Tourism Department operates boats in these regions and   operates the ferry to   in Kanyakumari. 
 
 ADGP, Coastal Security Group, C Sylendra Babu said that fishing boats were not meant for taking tourists out for sea trips. "We keep patrolling the shore using all-terrain vehicles and check out suspicious boats, instructing fishermen not to take people for joy rides. Mostly they oblige," he said.
 
 
