GURUGRAM: The   (CPR) project will be handed over to   ( ), with   failing to construct the 3.2km stretch despite acquiring 102 acres of   for Rs 700 crore around six months ago.

 A senior NHAI official said the CPR will be constructed along with the remaining portion of the Northern Peripheral Road (NPR), also known as Dwarka expressway. “We are in the process of preparing a detailed project report (DPR) for the construction of Dwarka expressway and we consider CPR as part of the expressway,” project director of NHAI Ashok Sharma told TOI on Wednesday.
 
 The 27km-long Dwarka expressway — 18km in   and 9km in Delhi — starts from Rangpuri in the national capital and ends at Kherki Daula village on NH-8 in Gurgaon. Out of the 18km stretch in Gurgaon, Huda has completed construction of 14.5km but the remaining portion is incomplete due to the delay in rehabilitation of oustees. On the other hand, NHAI has already started the land acquisition for the Delhi portion of Dwarka expressway.
 
 “Dwarka expressway has been declared as a national highway and we have to hand over the road to NHAI. CPR was proposed to connect NPR with the Southern Peripheral Road (SPR), so we have no objection if NHAI construct this road. Huda is already facing funds crunch and it would be better if NHAI constructs and maintains CPR as well,” said a senior state government official. “Huda will soon hand over the land acquired for the CPR project to NHAI,” he added.
 
 The completion of CPR — which will connect Dwarka expressway with SPR and NH-8 — will significantly reduce the traffic load on the Gurgaon stretch of NH-8 and will ensure smooth flow of traffic from NH-8 to NPR, NPR to SPR and vice versa.
 
 The road will also reduce the traffic load on NH-8, particularly near Kherki Daula, as vehicles coming from the Delhi side through NPR will be able to go directly towards Faridabad or Sohna Road through SPR, avoiding the highway. At present, all vehicles that pass through Gurgaon or go anywhere in the city are forced to use NH-8, leading to traffic jams in most parts.
 
 
