BENGALURU: Labourers Lalitamma and Chennabasava from Raichur, who were distraught at the birth of their son with an extra pair of lower limbs, a torso and genitalia, are relieved now. For, now they know for sure that their 20-day-old baby, who underwent a four-hour procedure at   on Hosur Road, would be able to lead a normal life.

 Operated by a team of two dozen surgeons and neonatal specialists on February 2, the baby is now recovering. The team was led by Dr. Ashley D’Cruz, director and senior consultant paediatric surgeon, and Dr Sanjay Rao, senior consultant paediatric surgeon. 
 
 Diagnosing the condition as being that of a parasitic twin, Dr Rao said this happens due to the embryo splitting improperly after fertilization.
 
 “In these cases, the embryo splits but does not separate. One part doesn’t develop normally and sometimes, is attached to certain organs. The healthy baby is called autosite. In this case, from the umbilicus down, the body had developed. The child had a minor heart condition that was treated and is still being monitored. He withstood the surgery well and we don’t anticipate any major problems,” he said at a media interaction here on Thursday.
 
 Some intestine, muscles, soft tissues and blood vessels had to be separated. They also had to ensure that there was no duplication of the urinary passage.
 
 
 
 
 The child’s birth on January 21 at a primary health centre in Raichur had left Chennabasava, 26, and Lalitamma, 23, aghast and they had no idea what to do. While relatives insisted that he be rushed to a hospital immediately, the mother was hesitant to get her ‘miracle’ baby treated. Narayana Health’s intervention came as a boon.
 
 “Initially, we kept his condition hidden from the mother as we didn’t want her to get upset in her fragile state. We kept him covered and let her feed him. It was only hours later that we showed her his picture on the phone. We took the boy to VIMS, Bellary, where we were contacted by Dr   from  , who promised help to take the child to Bengaluru,” said Shivappa, the boy’s uncle who accompanied the couple.
 
 Chennebasava said it was only when they were shown pictures of other successful surgeries that they felt confident about their son’s future. The doctors have also promised to treat any subsequent issues through telemedicine.
 
 “I was wondering why the God did this to us. We are poor and can’t even afford to travel back to our village. The hospital has promised to make all arrangements and even take care of the follow-up treatment,” he said. 
 
 When asked what would be the baby’s name, Lalitamma shyly said: “Since he was born on Saturday, we want to name him Anjaneya.”
 
 
 
 
 Associates for over 25 years, Dr Sanjay Rao and Dr Ashley D’Cruz have one thing in common: a desire to help the needy. 
 
 Having partnered in multiple complex surgeries, including the recent case of conjoined Nigerian twins Peace and Patience, Dr Cruz said: “Hi-tech operations with collaborations of expert teams are most likely to deliver positive results. Our experience in such cases, of Lakshmi Tatma in 2007 and the African twins in 2009, came in handy,” he said.
 
 Dr Rao said this surgery was essential to guarantee the child a normal existence. “While the child doesn’t suffer from any life-threatening condition, his quality of life would have been poor. He would simply exist, but not have a normal childhood. Now, he will have a normal life,” he added.
 
