INDORE:   has again raised a demand to bring forward the date for the   and has asked the ruling party and speaker to hold the budget session in time.

 Leader of opposition,  , has alleged that   was affected because budget sessions in the last four years were delayed by more than four months. Opposition leaders said that the ruling party should take a cue from the union budget that was advanced in order to roll out changes smoothly.
 
 “Ideally the budget session should be held latest by March 31. However, the ruling party has stopped the practice. With only seven to eight months left after the budget session, it becomes difficult to carry out development work in such a short time,” said Fozia Sheikh Alim,  , IMC
 
 Alim said that due to the delay, the civic body fails to spend the money allotted for many projects and the money gets lapsed.
 
 “There are many municipal corporation and development authorities in the country that come up with their budget in the month of March. Few years ago, the same practice was followed in Indore too. Why can’t they adopt the same practice again?” Alim said.
 
 Alim alleged that delaying the budget session is a violation of the rules of the Municipal Corporation Act and if the ruling party does not come up with a plan to hold the session on time, they would approach the court.
 
 IMC’s budget session for the fiscal year 2017-18 was held on July 15 and July 16. The budget session of the year 2016-17 was held on July 16 and July 17.
 
 Alim also called for the general body meeting to be held before February 15.
 
 “According to rules, meetings should be held every two months. The last meeting was held in December, so the speaker should take a note of the matter and hold the meeting before February 15,” Alim said.
 
 Chairman of the civic body Ajay Singh Naruka said that he would look into the demands of the opposition. It has constantly been blaming the ruling party and the chairman for not carrying out meetings according to rules. The opposition has also approached the court with complaints of meetings not been conducted on time. Leaders of opposition had also allegied that the chairman does not give them enough time to speak during meetings.
 
