BAREILLY: Even as the   (BMC) kick-started another leg of its anti-encroachment drive in the city on Monday, locals did not shy away from calling the practice a sham as squatters re-occupied the spaces hours after officials removed them.
 
  The drive, which will continue till May 29, will take place in six prime locations. Residents claimed that anti-encroachment drives are only symbolic as road-vendors return immediately to occupy the spots. Traffic at areas such as Collectorate, Station Road-junction, Ayub Khan-Shyamatganj and Shaidana-Delapir move at a snail’s pace with authorities failing to permanently remove encroachers from here.
  
  In the past six months, the civic body has conducted many anti-encroachment drives at various locations in the city. But these drives have failed to serve the purpose as prime locations continue to be occupied by illegal shops and road-side vendors. Locals also claimed BMC’s anti-encroachment drives were a sheer wastage of time and money.
  
  “The effect of encroachment drives last for only a few hours or a day. Squatters come back to reoccupy the spaces which are made free of kiosks and makeshift shops while the remaining part on the road becomes illegal parking spots for two-wheelers and rickshaws. Authorities have failed to clear encroachments and curb illegal parking in the city,” said  , a resident of Shaidana.
  
  Mahendra Singh, a resident of Civil Lines, said, “The haphazardly parked vehicles near  , along with the kiosks, leave little space for traffic movement here. The local vendors have occupied a major portion on the entire stretch. Traffic volume on this stretch only makes the situation worse.”
  
  Meanwhile, municipal commissioner,   said, “Our work is to remove encroachments from the roads and footpaths. It is the responsibility of the police department to keep a tab on squatters who reoccupy the spaces after anti-encroachment drives.”
  
  The BMC anti-encroachment squad has earmarked around 10-15 prominent stretches and crossings across the city for this anti-encroachment drive.
  
  Jaipal Patel, in-charge of the team carrying out anti-encroachment drive, told TOI, “Around 45-50 illegal stalls and makeshift shops at   to Choupla Crossing stretch were removed on Monday. A fine of Rs 500 was levied on a shopkeeper who put up a stall along the roadside. Our target is to remove remove all illegal shops, stalls and roadside vendors from the city roads. However, if people continue to encroach cleared spaces, the police station of the area will be responsible to stop it.”
