KOLKATA: In a first,   will set up separate parking zones for app cabs at 40 locations for encouraging pandal-hoppers to use public vehicles. The cops are already in talks with   to explore the possibility of extending concession to those hailing vehicles from these points.

 In another first for the police force, the men in uniform will be present on Kolkata’s roads from Dwitiya this year. While the full-scale centralized deployment will begin from Chaturthi, the cops are “aware” that several big Puja pandals, which have already been inaugurated, might need police presence from Friday evening. “With the weekend ahead, all local police stations and traffic guards have been asked to make their arrangements to maintain smooth traffic and ensure law and order,” said a senior IPS officer.
 
 To make pandal-hopping hassle-free, commissioner Rajeev Kumar on Thursday launched ‘Utsav’ app and published the Puja guide map. The app is being seen as a one-stop solution for revellers looking for directions, public transport. The commissioner also launched the unique public toilet map, which gives the public information about toilet locations near big-ticket pandals.
 
 Commenting on the arrangements, additional CP (I) Vineet Kumar Goyal said the decisions were taken keeping in mind two important parameters — past experience and the feedback from organizers and the neighbourhood. “We are going to put up important traffic updates on our Facebook page. Any change of traffic plans will be communicated real time,” said Goyal. DC (traffic) Solomon V Nesakumar confirmed that the movement of autos will be regulated from Panchami. “No autos will be allowed to ply beyond 2pm on all important roads,” he said.
 
 Elaborating on the utility of the app, Solomon added: “It will have the digital version of the guide map. Whoever downloads the app will be directed to the map page where the location of the user will get automatically updated. One only needs to select the pandals s/he wants to visit and the app will show the shortest route. It will also display the traffic condition and the adjoining parking locations.” 
 
