BENGALURU: When Team India coach   walked into the press conference on Thursday, he wore a smug look. One that said 'bring it on'! The most obvious question posed to him was about the pitch. The former spin ace played it with a straight bat for a while, before his patience wore thin and he said: “Can we move on? It's only 22 yards, it won't be different here.” Away from the cracks and the grass on the strip, Kumble, a man who has thrived on positive intent, refused look back at his team's surrender in the opening Test against Australia in Pune.

 “As a coach it's more important for me to look ahead. It was one of those games where things didn't go our way. We have another three Tests in the series and we are looking forward to that. We've had a fantastic home season. What has happened is done and dusted. Australia played well, we didn't play well on that surface. It was challenging but we didn't adapt.”
 
 The spin icon from Bengaluru, who led India's attack in the 2004 Test loss against Australia here, said the team was looking to return to winning ways.
 
 “You can't keep winning every game. It has to come to an end at some point. It's challenging for any international side to keep winning. And that's what this team has been able to do. Across conditions, be it Sri Lanka, India, West Indies. And against quality sides, we've won from difficult situations. We have adapted to various conditions and also various situations. That's what we didn't do in the last game. That's why the result didn't go our way. That's why we are looking forward to this game to again start on a winning note,” said the coach.
 
 Kumble refused to revisit the five-bowler theory. “It depends on what we believe is the right combination to win a Test, (whether) four bowlers are enough or five bowlers are needed. Which five bowlers or which four bowlers; all that depends on what we look at. Our aim is to win every game. That's the combination we'll put out there.” 
 
 Kumble said there was no question of dropping batsman  , who had scores of 13 and 18 in Pune. 
 
 “He's been successful over the last couple of years. There's no question about it (dropping him). In terms of the team composition, we haven't discussed that. All 16 are available. It's unfortunate that   missed out after he scored that triple hundred. That's the way the composition has been, where we've looked to play five bowlers. It's nice to have those kind of choices where people have been successful in a group,” he said.
 
 Shifting his attention to the use of the Decision Review System, Kumble felt India had done better than their recent opposition. “I don't think we messed it up. If you looked at the two series since it was introduced, we did better than England and Bangladesh. You can always have hindsight and expect that you could've missed out but those calls were really close. So I don't see a reason why we need to worry too much,” he said.
 
 
 
 
 M Chinnaswamy stadium holds a special place in the heart of coach Anil Kumble. It's his backyard. It's the ground where he has bowled many memorable spells including ones where he claimed his 300th and 400th Test wickets. But ask him about his home wicket and he shows his cheeky side. “I don't know much about the Chinnaswamy wicket to be frank,” he laughed, before adding: “I have grown up playing on this ground. It's generally been a good batting surface and yeah I'm sure it'll be a result wicket. That's exactly what we want in a Test match...you want results. It's always a good batting wicket.”
 
