CHANDIGARH: At a time when Panjab University's single window enquiry is flooded with calls for admission queries, all the callers want to know is about the fees of different courses.
“Generally, we get admis sion-related queries to different courses in the university, but this time we are getting a number of fee-related queries. Candidates from across the region have been calling up to know about the quantum of increase in the particular course they want to apply for,“ said Manju  , who works at the single window enquiry. On an average, the single window receives around 350 calls every day, 200 alone on the tollfree number.
 
 Verma's colleague Jaila Singh at the single window, who also attends to queries over a phone, said after the fee hike was announced and subsequent protests, a majority of the queries are about the money they will have to pay.
 
 “A man rang us up three times. His son studies at the University Institute of Engineering and Technology (UIET). He asked me how much the fee hike is because he will not be able to pay the fee if it increases since he was a security guard. We told him repeatedly that it did not apply to existing students but was meant for new admissions only,“ added Verma.
 
 Moreover, the fresh decision of the senate to roll back fee hike and cap it at 10% for the new admissions from the 2017-18 session is likely to create more confusion for candidates applying for admissions in PU.
 
 “We have not received any communication regarding the capping of fees at 10% with a lower limit of Rs 500 for the fresh admissions. We cannot pass on the information to candidates who ask us about the fees until we get a communication in written about it,“ said Verma.
 
 Going by the records at the single window enquiry, admission and fee related queries from New Delhi tops the list. Around 80 queries come from Delhi every day. Queries from   and   have also increased
 
 This is the most-common question that candidates at the single window enquiry.The staff has to clarify that Panjab University is situated in Chandigarh and Chandigarh University is a separate varsity A person called from   and Kashmir and claimed to be an   personnel. He asked for the date sheet of the fourth semester of MA Punjabi. Even after the staff informed him about the date sheet, he continued to call for another four days on all the three numbers Candidates who want to apply for admissions ask for semester examination dates even before applying, syllabus and date sheet.
 
