PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: Newly-elected mayor   has demanded that the   create special allocations in the budget for development works in the merged fringe village areas.

 Kalje, who is from Charholi, a fringe village, has also directed the administration to appoint a special head for the merged areas, which include Wakad, Punawale, Kiwale, Ravet, Talawade, Chikhali, Dudulgaon, Dighi, Bopkhel and Moshi. “Works for road development, cleanliness and ensuring adequate water supply must be completed within a year. Tenders for these should be invited from next month,” he said during his first meeting with civic officials, including city engineer   and joint city engineer Ravindra Dudhekar.
 
 Kalje also discussed about several projects like water supply, drainage lines, gardens and construction works, for both urban and fringe areas. The mayor also directed officials to take up development projects under the Smart Cities Mission.
 
 According to senior civic officials, the annual budget for 2017-18 has already been prepared. Usually, the civic administration prepares the draft budget in February and presents it to the standing committee, which takes important policy decisions and makes financial allocations for development work. The committee makes changes in allocations and adds new development works, after which it is tabled before the general body meeting in March. The new works have to begin from the new financial year. 
 
 However, as the municipal elections were held in February, there was a delay in the preparation of the annual budget. After the election of the mayor on Tuesday, the 16-member standing committee will be formed on March 23. The municipal commissioner has the powers to implement the budget from April 1.
 
 The fringe areas, which were merged in September 1997, are located near the industrial areas of Pimpri, Chinchwad, Bhosari and others in Pimpri Chinchwad. Many big and small housing schemes are coming up in these areas providing accommodation to industrial workers, due to which the fringe areas are witnessing large-scale urbanisation. This has increased the population in these areas in the last two decades, but they lack proper roads, adequate water supply and gardens. Bhosari MLA Mahesh Landge had said the ruling NCP could not develop these villages in the past 20 years.
 
 Logo contest ends
 
 Citizens of Pimpri Chinchwad submitted 108 ‘Smart City’ logos via mygov.in. The deadline for submission of the logos ended on Wednesday. The winners will be announced next month by a panel of judges from the urban development ministry. The top three winners will receive cash awards of Rs 25,000, Rs 15,000 and Rs 10,000.
 
