NEW DELHI: Seeking to minimize the impact of  , the   - highest decision making body of the government - on Tuesday gave its ex-post facto approval for interest waiver for the two months of November and December, 2016 for farmers accessing short term crop loans from  . 

 An additional financial liability of Rs 1060.50 crore will be required for this purpose. 
 
 "Farmers in the whole of India availing short term crop loans from Cooperative Banks will be benefitted", said a government's statement after the Cabinet meeting which was chaired by the Prime Minister  . 
 
 It said, "The decision intends to ensure availability of resources with Cooperative Banks help farmers in easily accessing crop loans to overcome the difficulties in view of the reduction in availability of cash for carrying out Rabi operations". 
 
 The decision also provides for interest subvention to National Bank for Agricultural and Rural Development (NABARD) on its additional refinance by to cooperative banks. 
 
 "A sum of Rs 15,000 crore allocated during 2016-17 to implement the Interest Subvention Scheme (ISS) has already been utilised", said the statement. 
 
 The Centre has been implementing the Interest Subvention Scheme since 2006-07. Under the ISS, short-term crop loans upto Rs 3 lakh are made available to the farmers at an interest rate of 7% per annum by the public sector banks, regional rural banks and cooperative banks. 
 
 Farmers are provided with 3% interest subvention for short term crop loan upto Rs 3 lakhs on prompt repayment of the loan. Thus, farmers have to effectively pay only 4% as interest for the said crop loan if they repay it on time. 
 The government in its cabinet note admitted that the interest waiver is meant to provide relief to farmers as they were affected due the cancellation of legal tender character of old Rs 500 and Rs 1000 notes and the resulting difficulty faced by them in en-cashing the cheques received against sale proceeds of their Kharif produce in the mandis. 
 
 The farmers also faced constraints due to inadequacy of cash in carrying out Rabi operations and servicing the interest of the short term crop loans, especially in view of the restrictions imposed on Cooperative Banks, post-demonetisation. 
 
 The interest waiver is being provided for a period of 2 months - November and December 2016 - to farmers who were disbursed crop loan from Cooperative Banks between April 1, 2016 and September 30, 2016.
 
