Known for films like 'Welcome Back', ' ' and TV shows like 'Comedy Circus' and 'Comedy Nights With Kapil', writer  , on his maiden visit to Varanasi said, "Banaras ghoomne wala shahar kam, mahsoos karne wala zyada hai. Yahan ki hawa mein masti hai. Yeh unn kuch sheharon mein se hai jisne apni sabhyata ko pakad ke rakha hai."
The writer, who was in Banaras to research for his forthcoming film, ' ' starring  , spent a few days in the city meeting people from different walks of life. "This is my second film with Sanju Baba. I have earlier written ' ' for him. But 'Malang' is a different project altogether. In this he plays a very complex character driven by the belief that this world does not deserve him. He is not an aghori in the film in the true sense but is certainly moving towards renunciation of the world. Since the story of 'Malang' has Banaras as the backdrop, I felt the need to study the culture of the city that has a history of its own. I wanted to know in depth the lifestyle of people in Banaras as instead, I just want to depict the mindset of the city and the thought process of its people. Till now I had mainly written comedy so I did not want to take any chances. Lots of films have been made on the city like 'Raanjhanaa', or 'Benaras' that have depicted various elements of the city. In 'Malang', I don't want to show just the city, instead I want to depict the thought process that goes behind the city and its people. I went to the ghats and different ashrams to get a feel of the city. I also met people who are well informed about Banaras," he says. 
 Though Raaj has moved to serious writing, he is of the opinion that penning comedy is the toughest job. “I started writing comedy for television when this spell had just started. The audience were just tired of saas-bahu sagas and to entertain them through comedy, was a big challenge. I wrote 18 seasons of 'Comedy Circus' and went on to write for Comedy Nights With Kapil. I was confronted with another challenge when I was called by   for his film 'Welcome Back'. Till that time I had just written for stand-up comedians," says Raaj.
 
  
  Raaj Shaandilyaa went for a ride on a cycle rickshaw at Godowlia Crossing in Varanasi (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar) 
 
 He adds, "There is a lot of difference between writing for films and TV. On TV we have the chance to improve. Hum log ek ghante ka show karte hain aur agar koi kami rehti hai toh next episode mein improve kar sakte hain. However, that’s not the case in films where we have to tell the story within the time slot of 2-3 hours. Moreover penning dialogues for director Anees Bazmee, who himself is a writer, and veteran artists like Nasseruddin Shah,  , Paresh Rawal and   was not easy. My comic background on television came to my rescue at that time."
 The writer also believes that comedy does not always earn one fame but also brick bats from the audience. "During my 'Comedy Circus' show we had done all kinds of comedy like slapstick, satire, black comedy, etc, since it was a new show and we wanted to experiment with all genres of comedy. We rarely made use of below–the–belt humour in the show. If ever there was a controversial content in the show, we used to put a disclaimer before it. Personally, I am not in favour of slipshod comedy. I was offered films like 'Grand Masti' and 'Great Grand Masti' but I refused since I do not write adult comedy. Audience in India don't appreciate adult comedy. I don't want to write something which people cannot watch with their families. There were some dialogues in 'Freaky Ali' which had shades of double meaning or rather smart meaning, as it was required for the character. These dialogues made you laugh rather than give an unpleasant feeling," he reasons. 
 Speaking on the controversy around the 'Kapil Sharma Show', Raaj, who has written for 'Comedy Nights With Kapil' says, "All comedy shows are a result of team effort. If any character of a team dissociates with a show, it does affect the show. But I feel such differences are not permanent. Family mein aise man-mutaav hote rehte hain. They all will realise and will overcome the differences. Mudda chhota sa tha par bada bann gaya. Sabki dosti ho jayegi, professionally nahi toh personally toh ho hi jayegi," feels the writer.
 
