By a happy coincidence, I write from Australia and I’m also about to review a restaurant, which is claimed to be Mumbai’s very first Modern Australian restaurant. I’ve been feasting my way through this magnificent country and been back over ten times. So, I was really excited to try Estella. I dined here with foodie extraordinaire, food columnist, TV host, actor the lovable  . We travelled through India shooting his TV show and not only is he always hungry but “slightly overweight” (his words). We dined under the stars, but were disappointed. So I trekked back from SoBo to dine here and came away with mixed feelings…

 
 
 Brilliantly located on the   seafront (it replaces Aurus) and dotted with a couple of cabanas and tables. It also has a pleasantly appointed indoor space with a unisex loo.
 
 
 
 While we could say that Australian cuisine is the cuisine of the original Aboriginal inhabitants of Australia, the term modern Australian was coined in 1994 by  . It denotes a culinary culture that is a result of the influence of cuisines from around the world. The gold rush of the 19th century brought Chinese immigrants, post World War 2, massive European immigration and many more immigration waves. I like to call it the cuisine that adopts and adapts… be it South East Asian, Italian, Chinese and more. I checked Estella’s menu with an Australian food expert here and he said that except for a few terms — ‘Tasmanian Scallops’, ‘Hunter Valley Lamb’ — there was nothing “Australian” about the menu. Even if I do not assess the food here under its label of “Modern Australian”, the question remains: Is it worth dining in?
 
 
 
 A menu that zigzags through the world. We enjoyed the plump grilled Tasmanian Scallops even though their delicate flavour was overpowered with broccoli, miso honey cream and carrot foam. Okayish Pork Belly Salad, delicious prawn soy sesame crust on the well-cooked Norwegian Salmon. Light and subtle rose Panna Cotta, intense and delicious Chocolate Triple Ganache.
 
 
 
 The music is too loud. Over-moist Maki Roll. Stodgy Goat Cheese Soufflé, dry Falafel with pumpkin. Avoidable mezze board. Avoidable John Dory with Jalapeno cream sauce, Aubergine pumpkin spinach stuffed eggplant, stringy duck. I missed my Australian favourite desserts, Pavlova and Lamington.
 
 
 
 Estella’s Juhu beachfront location is definitely a plus point. As is the food presentation. Never mind if it does not fit into the strict definition of the “Modern Australian” label. The issue is that much of the food is busy and unfocused though the kitchen does send out the occasional superb dish. Pleasant, but inconsistent and uneventful, which is sad because the chef and the team behind Estella have some worth-visiting restaurants to their credit. The magic that they’ve made elsewhere hasn’t followed them here.
 
