Noida: Candidates whose nominations papers have been rejected on various alleged ‘trivial’ grounds on Friday protested against acting returning officer (RO) for Noida, Amit Kumar Singh, who on Wednesday cancelled a record 17 nomination forms that were filed for the Noida constituency.

 Several of the rejected candidates told TOI that filling up the “complex” nomination form which runs across 15 pages was an uphill task that required the guidance of an expert lawyer. The poll aspirants also said that the candidature of Pankaj Singh, Union home minister Rajnath Singh’s son, “influenced” the nomination process.
 
 Calling for the “dismissal” of Amit Kumar Singh, who is also the SDM of Dadri, the candidates questioned his “dubious role” and claimed that their nominations were cancelled because of the influence of one particular candidate.
 
 A group of members of Rashtriya Janta Party (RJP), two of whose candidates had their papers rejected, visited the Election Commission office in Delhi, along with independent Anoop Khanna. They handed a memorandum to officials of the EC asking, “If a job of an RO was only to collect the forms or to also go through each form and ensure it is duly filled up”.
 
 While some candidates said that their nominations were cancelled because their proposers were illiterate, whose thumb impression was not to the liking of the RO, one candidate’s nomination was cancelled because she had used a receipt stamp instead of a revenue stamp.
 
 Most candidates said that the RO had not explained any of the pitfalls in the filing of the nomination and simply handed over the checklists to them.
 
 Sonam Sharma from Lok Dal, who was one of the protesters, said that she had 10 proposers out of which one was a 60-plus lady who does not sign and uses her thumb impression. “I had got the thumb impression on my nomination form in front of a lawyer. We were not informed earlier that the thumb impression has to be verified in front of the returning officer,” Sonam said. 
 
 CPM candidate Gangeshwar Dutt Sharma, who had left for Allahabad on Wednesday to file a case at the high court against the rejection, said his nomination was cancelled because it was clear that he was cutting into the votes of two candidates, BJP’s Pankaj Singh and SP’s Sunil Choudhary.
 
 Vimlesh Sharma, who had filed nomination for the Noida constituency as an independent candidate, said she was not briefed about the lacunae in her nomination form. She said that it was very difficult to understand the pure Hindi used in the form.
 
 “When I filed my nomination, the returning officer asked me to hire a good lawyer, which I could not afford,” Vimlesh said. 
 
 Pravesh Chauhan, from the Rashtravadi Pratap Sena, said that his form was rejected because he had not written “not applicable” in all the corresponding columns.
 
 Amit Kumar Singh dismissed all allegations against him. When asked about Sonam Sharma’s case, he hadn’t done anything wrong and that he was “not a specialist in thumb impressions”.
 
 “It is necessary to get the impression verified by any person above the post of a sub-divisional officer. In the case of Pravesh Chauhan, Vimlesh Sharma and all others, a checklist was given to them which had stated all the lacunae in the forms,” he said. He admitted he had not explained the pitfalls verbally to the candidates.
 
 
