JAIPUR: Suspected ISI   Haji Khan used code words such as herd of ‘goats’ and ‘sheep’ to communicate details about the movements of Indian security forces to his handlers in Pakistan. The state intelligence agencies claimed that Khan was also trying to collect information about the vehicles and weapons used by Indian forces alongside the international border. 

 An intelligence official said that Khan referred the movement of troops in code words in order to evade the suspicion of Indian intelligence agencies. 
 
 “For instance, if a unit of security forces was moving from one location to another, Khan would called up his handlers in Pakistan and informed them that a herd of ‘sheep’ or ‘goats’ are seen travelling from destination to another,” the official said, adding, that Khan is being interrogated to find out which particular military or paramilitary forces was referred as sheep or goat. 
 
 The sleuths have found that Khan was using a mobile sim of a   to speak to his  . 
 
 “Many people in these villages have livestock. Therefore, Khan assigned ‘cattle code words’ to different forces which are currently deployed in the area. He was under the assumption that even if Indian intelligence picks up his conversations, he would be able to dodge their questions,” the official said.
 
 The sleuths of Indian intelligence agencies have also found that   was taking particular interest in mock drills and other operational practices carried out by Border Security Force (BSF) and Indian army. 
 
 ‘He was trying to gasp the knowledge about the vehicles and weapons used by Indian security forces. But he was not to decide which information is important enough to be traded,” a senior official of the state police said. 
 
 The sleuths of Border Intelligence (BI) suspect Haji Khan shared information with ISI for money. DIG R Suhasa said, investigation is underway to get more details about his involvement. A team led by DIG Suhasa had nabbed Khan from   area of Jaisalmer on February 11.
 
