AURANGABAD: With   verification to become mandatory from April 1 for   seeking concessional tickets, the Indian Railways has appealed to the passengers to take benefit of the advance verification process it has facilitated.

 The advance verification can be done on the   (IRCTC) website by using a registered log-in and password.
 
 “On the IRCTC website, registered users just need to click on ‘master list’ link under the profile menu and follow the procedure for sharing Aadhaar details. The entire process of advance Aadhaar verification has been made passenger-friendly and does not require much time,” railway authorities said.
 
 “Also, while selecting senior citizen passengers from the master list is an optional feature as of now, but soon will be mandatory. After this, any passenger availing concession will have to first authenticate his/her Aadhaar details and then select the Aadhaar verified senior citizen passengers from the master list while booking the ticket,” they added.
 
 As announced earlier, from January 1 to March 31, Aadhaar verification for getting concessional tickets shall be optional for veterans, but thereafter mention of UIDAI details would be compulsory.
 
 While making an announcement to this effect during December last year, IRCTC chairman and managing director AK Manocha had said that linking of Aadhaar cards with train tickets for senior citizens would end fraudulent bookings and curb cases of impersonation.
 
 Rajesh Shinde, public relations officer of South Central Railway, Nanded division, said passenger community should cooperate with Indian Railways in making Aadhaar linking with ticket booking for veterans a successful initiative.
 
 “Passengers have sufficient time in hand to feed Aadhaar credentials of senior citizens on the online ticket booking system of IRCTC. The move will be beneficial for the railways as well as the passengers,” he said.
 
  of advocacy group   said it was a good move on the part of railways to facilitate advance Aadhaar verification for senior citizens.
 
 “The need for Aadhaar verification for senior citizens was being felt for a long time so as to eliminate fraudulent practices. Those who still not have Aadhaar cards can take out the same before April 1,” he said.
 
 Speaking with TOI, a few senior citizens expressed the need for setting up physical counters at railway stations for advance Aadhaar verification.
 
 “The senior citizen community has inherent phobia towards online processes and therefore should be aided in the matter of Aadhaar verification,” said Nalini Bhamse, a 74-year-old veteran who commutes between Nashik and Aurangabad.
 
 A senior railway official said it was up to the railway ministry to take a call in response to demand for setting up physical counters. “As of now, we have not received any formal representation from the veterans saying that they have some issues or reservations about the online process for advance Aadhaar verification,” he said.
 
