BHUBANESWAR: The state government faces an upheaval task ahead of June 25 Puri   as several servitors on Tuesday revolted and threatened to boycott the ensuing annual festival in protest against the district administration’s crackdown on them over Rath Yatra fiasco in 2016. 

 A number of priests abstained from attending a preparatory meeting called by the state government at Puri on Tuesday. “We are trying to convince the agitated servitors. The district collector should ensure smooth coordination among all priests for hassle-free Rath Yatra,” revenue divisional commissioner (central range) A B Ota said. 
 
 All hell broke loose on July 17, 2016, the last day of nine-day Rath Yatra when the deities were supposed to be taken from chariots into the shrine, marking Niladri Bije ritual. A group of servitors allegedly heckled Puri district collector Aravind Agrawal and assaulted journalists. The uncouth servitors stalled the procession of taking deities into the temple for some time, sparking state-wide public outcry. Around 20 servitors were booked in separate cases of misconduct to Agrawal and assault on journalists. Police had then declared eight servitors as absconders, pasted their posters on public places and started the legal procedure to attach their properties. Some servitors were arrested. 
 
 Unlike previous years, Tuesday’s preparatory meeting saw participation of a handful of servitors. On Sunday, a group of servitors announced to boycott the meeting in protest against the government’s action on their community members last year. The warring priests had pasted posters, airing their discontentment and asked their colleagues to boycott the meeting. 
 
 “I had recently written a letter to the chief minister Naveen Patnaik, requesting his intervention to resolve the crisis. The government should not target priests. The problem should be solved much before the Rath Yatra,” said  , a servitor. 
 
 Some local residents, who were present in the meeting, complained about poor roads and drainage systems in Puri. “We expected Puri’s infrastructure will get a boost during 2015 Nabakalebara during which crores of rupees were spent. But condition of roads and drains belied our expectations. The road over bridge at   on   national highway is yet to be completed,” said  , a local resident.
 
