LUDHIANA: After the recent raid conducted by the   at a   for allegedly conducting illegal sex determination tests, it has come out that Punjab has become a hub for these tests. Twentytwo raids were conducted in the past two years by the Haryana health department, out of which six were only from Ludhiana district since January last year. After the launch of  , Beti Padhao’ launched in Haryana in 2015, the clampdown on   has increased.

 Dr Vipul Bhandari, nodal officer of Pre-Natal Detection Techniques (PNDT) at Ambala, said: “The launch of ‘Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao’ was to improve the sex ratio, and to stop the practice of female foeticide. So, the ones who wanted to go for such tests, choose either Punjab or UP. In Punjab, 22 raids have been conducted by the Haryana health department, and the number is definitely huge.”
 
 Punjab has become a safe place for the illegal sex determination tests. Recently on 11 April, at a private hospital in Ludhiana, a raid was conducted when a doctor was allegedly caught red-handed after the Ambala health department had sent a decoy patient. Dr Bhandari said: “Whenever we receive any such information from our sources, the DC gives permission to conduct the raid, and once the activity starts, regular reporting is done at the chief minister’s office.”
 
 He added: “After so many raids conducted in Punjab, our sources also say these unregistered scan centres, quacks or doctors, don’t take patients from Haryana. The sex ratio in Haryana at birth was around 800 in 2015, which has increased to 935 in 2017 (so far). Twentytwo raids on unauthorized scan centres were conducted in Patiala, Ludhiana, Khanna, Mohali, and Sultanpur during the past two years.”
 
 Chief medical officer Dr Rajiv Bhalla added: “We are making sure no such activities are done here, and proper rules and regulations have been set. We are also keeping an eye, and conducting raids and inspection for the same. If anyone is caught doing any illegal work, they will not be spared.”
 
 
