KOLKATA: After the tight leash on private healthcare, chief minister   had said schools would next be under the scanner. And the government has already started the process, beginning with government and government-aided schools.

 On Monday , the district inspector of schools (secondary) sent emails to all such schools — including madrassas and minority-run institutions -to submit details of their fee structure. The report is to be submitted to the education department by Wednesday .
 
 In the email, the DIs have said that according to a government order issued on June 10, 1993, it was stipulated that the maximum limit for collection of development fees and other charges from students of government and aided secondary schools shall be Rs 75 in urban areas and Rs 63 in the rural areas. Subsequently , another order on February 14, 2011 prescribed that schools should not collect charges more than Rs 240 per year from a child studying between classes I and VIII.
 
 There are 41 government schools and around 13,000 government-aided schools in the state. There are also minority-run schools and madrassas under the  . “Several government-aided schools charge fees above the prescribed limit,“ said an education department official. “It is here that the government wants to tighten its grip.“
 
 Once the fee details are revealed, the education department will meet representatives of private schools affiliated to Madhymik and other boards.“It will give us an opportunity to compare and show them the huge difference in the fee structure,“ said the department official. Additional charges by aided schools include dairy cost, identity card charges, subscription for Saraswati Puja, extra payments for security in girls' schools, charges for providing computer education, laboratory fees and magazine fees. In a private south Kolkata school affiliated to the WBBSE, guardians pay monthly fees between Rs 3,200 and Rs 3,500. If the child is enrolled in swimming classes, there's a Rs 1,500 extra charge.For school bus, there's a Rs 1,200 charge. “ Language laboratory , mathematics laboratory, advance computer laboratory, multimedia courses may seem like luxuries but it is essential to learn these skills. While our admission fee for Class XI is Rs 20,000, candidates taking admission between nursery and Class VIII have to pay Rs 25,000 as a one-time fee,“ said the committee member of a private school.
 
