INDORE:   police arrested a Delhi-based man for   by befriending them on a   claiming he was from the UK. 

 "The accused has duped many other women in different states but since we got a complaint from the Indore-based engineer we have registered a case on the matter," police said adding that the accused was being interrogated further for more information.
 
 The incident came to light after a 22-year-old engineer approached police with a complaint that she had befriended a Rajasthan-based man who claimed he was an NRI currently in UK for a job.
 
 The woman claimed she first came in contact with the man on a matrimonial website where she had uploaded information about herself. She mentioned she was impressed with his job and good background and so shared her mobile number with him.
 
 The two then started speaking to each other and shared many details about themselves. After several days, the man told the complainant that he was sending a special gift and foreign currency to her from UK. She willingly gave him her office address.
 
 He, however, told her that she will have to pay around Rs 28,200 - the cost of the customs duty at the Delhi airport. The woman transferred the amount to his account.
 
 After a few days, she again received a call from the accused asking her to transfer Rs 74,000 to his account because the parcel had been intercepted as it contained a large amount of cash. 
 
 The woman, however, smelled something was fishy and approached   A case was registered in the matter and a manhunt was launched to arrest the accused.Police received information that the main accused had sent two people to collect cash from the complainant in Indore. They wererrested and interrogated, where they revealed that they were residents of Bareilly district in Uttar Pradesh. "The two accused, Nadim Hussain (21) and Akram Ali (25), both residents of Faridpur, Bareilly have been arrested. They revealed they were wokring at an embroidery factory in Pithampur and had been asked to collect cash from the woman by the main accused Naazim Hussain (22)," said Mahendra Singh Bhadoria, Safar Bazaar police station in-charge.
 
 A manhunt was launched in the case to arrest Naazim and a team of police officials was sent to New Delhi based on the mobile location. He was arrested in Delhi.
 
