NEW DELHI: Opposition parties today said no harm would be done if   were postponed by a day, and wondered why the Centre is in a hurry to present it, following the death of a sitting Parliamentarian.

 
  after he suffered a cardiac arrest during Parliament a day earlier. There was speculation the budget, scheduled to be presented today, would be cancelled to mourn the MP's death. But   Speak   said today the budget presentation will indeed go ahead.
 
 "We are saddened by E Ahamed ji's demise but budget will be presented. We have to keep in mind that budget is a constitutional obligation, it will have to be presented," Mahajan said. 
 
 Opposition party members though saw this as a sign of disrespect.
 
 "Postponement of budget will be no big deal, it's not as if secrecy will break," said former Prime Minister HD Deve Gowda. "There was no need to go to the President with the budget, what is the hurry? Shows mentality of government," the former PM added.
 
 The Samajwadi Party said that going ahead with the budget is exactly what they expected with this   government.
 
 "It is tradition to adjourn the house after a sitting MP dies, but this government doesn't care about tradition," said SP member Naresh Agarwaal. 
 
 The RJD's Lalu Prasad Yadav and the   party also believed that out of respect today's parliamentary session should have been adjourned.
 
 "It's not March 31; there is a lot of time to present budget. Government can postpone it," said the Congress party's  . He also said that some opposition party members alleged the Centre tried to delay the announcement of the death of Ahamed. 
 
 "I think government already knew that he (Ahamed) had passed away, but they were trying to maybe delay announcement. This was an inhuman act," Kharge said.
 
 However, one constitutional expert said the budget can't be postponed.
 
 "It's neither possible nor is it correct (to postpone), because budget copies have (already) reached Parliament,"said Subhash Kashyap, constitution expert.
 
 
 
