IMPHAL: Rights activist  , who cast her vote in the first phase of the Manipur assembly election in Khurai constituency in Imphal East on Saturday, said she voted for the CPI. After 24 years, this is the first time, she cast her vote. 

 Around 9.30 am, Sharmila, accompanied by her security escorts provided by the government, exercised her franchise at her ancestral place, Kongpal Kongkham Leikai. Khurai witnessed a three-cornered fight between sitting Congress MLA Ng Bijoy Singh, BJP's L Susindro Meitei and CPI's RK Amusana.
 
 "I cast my vote for the CPI candidate as a goodwill gesture to the Left Democratic Front Manipur, which supported me for contesting from Thoubal," Sharmila told reporters. The Iron Lady will be taking on three-time chief minister Okram Ibobi Singh and the BJP's L Bashanta Singh from Thoubal on March 8. Thoubal is among the 22 seats that will go to the polls in the second phase.
 
 Comprising six parties, the CPI, CPI (M), JD(U), AAP, Manipur National Democratic Front and NCP, the front has fielded 52 candidates and its primary target is to defeat the Congress and the BJP. "It is only natural that I will help those who have helped me. I got strength to take on the chief minister from the front," she added. 
 
 Sharmila, who ended her 16-year fast last August against the controversial Armed Forces (Speical Powers) Act, said she is hopeful all the candidates of PRJA would win. Thangmeiband, from which Erendro Leichombam contested, was among the 38 constituencies that went to the polls in the first phase on Saturday.
 
 Erendro was assaulted by locals at Thangmeiband Sinam Leikai while he, along with his supporters, was conducting a poll survey for PRJA around 11am. He was rushed to RIMS hospital. A complaint has been lodged with the police and ECI.
 
 Najima Bibi, the first Muslim woman candidate of the state to contest an assembly election, is fighting from the Wabagai seat that will see six candidates, including sitting Congress MLA Fajur Rahim, battling it out. Wababai, which has a large Muslim population, will go to the polls in the second phase. 
 
 
