NAGPUR: A spirited bowling performance saw India pip England by five runs in the second T20 International here on Sunday night, thus levelling the three-match series 1-1.

 Big boundaries, a dry surface and a disciplined English bowling performance made sure India's struggle with the bat in the series continued. KL Rahul struck form with an aggressive 71 (47b, 6x4, 2x6) but rest of his teammates couldn't break free. India managed a below par 1448 after being put in for the second time in as many matches.
 
 However, the bowlers rose to the occasion, restricted England 139-6 and clinched a thrilling victory at Vidarbha Cricket Association's Jamtha stadium.
 
 First, it was   (4-0 28-3) who pulled things back with the wickets of England openers Jason Roy and Sam Billings off successive balls. Then, Jasprit Bumrah (4-0-20-2) produced a scintillating death-over bowling display while taking the wickets of Joe Root (38, 38b, 2x4) and   (15, 10b, 1x4, 1x6).
 
 England needed eight off the last over but Bumrah bowled brilliant slower ones to do the job for his team. Root must count himself unlucky as he was adjudged leg-before wicket even though the ball had kissed his bat before striking the pads.
 
 Nehra also trapped the dangerous looking Ben Stokes (38, 27b, 2x4, 2x6) plumb in front in the penultimate over when the all-rounder was looking like taking the game away . Stokes, however, should have been out on the first ball he faced. Amit Mishra cleaned him up and ran across the turf in celebration only to know that he had overstepped the line. Mishra's first two overs went for 19. Kohli, however, persisted with the experienced leggie. Mishra responded and got the prized scalp of  .
 
 When India batted, they found it difficult against some crafty England bowling. Tymal Mills and Chris Jordan mixed their deliveries extremely well to keep Indian openers   and Rahul guessing. Kohli looked in sublime touch when he hit Mills for a mighty six and four in his second over. But Jordan deceived the Indian skipper with a brilliant slower one to get the prized scalp England wanted.
 
 Rahul continued to play attractive strokes even as other Indian batsmen were struggling. Offie   bowled stump to stump and didn't allow   to break free. Morgan then introduced   and the leggie removed Raina with a well-disguised googly .Yuvraj Singh looked out of sorts and was trapped lbw by Ali.
 
