NEW DELHI: The story of   and  , the terror accused acquitted in the 2005 Delhi blasts on Thursday after losing precious years in jail, resonates with several families across India. The acquittals of several terror suspects after years-long incarceration have time and again raised questions about the investigation carried out by various agencies.

 In   alone, for example, over 30 terror suspects have been either acquitted or discharged since 2004.“It's difficult to live with the same dignity in society once police label you a terror suspect,“ said Abdul Wahid  , a 711 suspect acquitted in 2015. Sheikh's son was two years and daughter six months old when he was arrested. “One cannot understand the trauma I went through. We were humiliated, beaten up and tortured during interrogation,“ he said.
 
 “The state government has no system of rehabilitation. It's easy for people to say things get normal after acquittal. That's not true. I got my teaching job back but ev eryone is not that lucky. Most of those acquitted face financial problems when they want to start a new life,“ said Shaikh, who was accused of harbouring the Pakistanis who bombed the trains.
 
 Hanif Sheikh, who came out of jail on February 2 after 13 years following his acquittal in the Ahmedabad tiffin blasts case, said he had no clue how to start life afresh. “In 2007, my mother died of shock with a prayer on her lips to see me out of jail. My wife, bedridden with depression since my arrest, succumbed a year later. My elder sister, who struggled to rear my children and fight my legal battle, died in 2009.My eldest daughter, a bright student, was forced to drop out due to non-payment of her school fees. There is no justice in pronouncing me innocent as the system has wronged me and my family ,“ he said.Sheikh used to run a garments business but it is all lost now.
 
 Adam Ajmeri (54), who was facing the gallows until the SC acquitted him in the Akshardham attack case in 2014, said his friends and relatives turned their backs on him despite the clean chit. He could start life afresh only after two research scholars from   collected Rs 7 lakh for him through crowd-funding. “No one would give me a job. My wife and six children were forced to survive on alms. I had turned suicidal when Allah sent the two good men who gave me Rs 7 lakh to start my dairy business,“ he said. 
 
