BHOPAL:   State Tourism Development Corporation ( ) won’t allow entry and take bookings for Holi and Rangpanchami corporation-run hotels, resorts and other tourism units.

 However, the ban will not apply to tourists staying in these hotels, resorts and other units prior to given dates. On Holi, which falls on March 13 and Rangpanchami on March 17, all outlets in Madhya Pradesh will remain closed for outsiders.
 
 Speaking to TOI, principal secretary tourism Hariranjan Rao said on Holi, people come and create disorder at these places due to which guests residing in these units gets a bad impression.
 
 “We have prohibited the entry of entry of public into corporation- run units on Holi because we can’t afford to expose our property to colours. Besides, we can’t afford any kind of disorder. There have been small incidents in the past when people came and ruined our property. It becomes difficult to wash expensive linen and get control of drunk people,” Rao told TOI.
 
 He said from Monday morning to evening and Rang Panchmi on March 17, there will be a complete ban on entry of outsiders.
 
 “Tourists staying in these hotels, resorts, boat clubs and other units prior to these dates will, however, be exempted from the ban. Our guests do not expect something ill-disciplined and get disturbed, which sends a wrong message. So we have decided to keep outsider off for these two days,” he said.
 
 The senior officer said the department wanted to make it clear to everyone just to avoid any confusion.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Sachin Shukla, front officer, Jungle resort, which comes under MPSTDC, says, there are orders from   department not to allow any outsider to check in on the occasion to avoid any untoward incident.
 
 “We do it every year in order to keep drunk and trouble makers at bay,” he said.
 
 Officials at hotel Palash said there are certain guidelines, which have to be followed.
 
 “We can’t make our customers uncomfortable by taking any chance. Our guests are important to us. Which is why there is no permission for outsiders on Holi to check in,” said Gajendra Shrivastav, receptionist, at Palash Hotel.
 
 He said if anything happens, damage to property or anything at private hotels, they charge money from their customers, which is not a case with government-run units.
 
