Police officers are usually the last people you would want to see when you are chilling in a bar, but this particular visit from two senior   officials at a CP pub was not alarming for its owner and guests. 
It wasn’t a usual Friday live session when  , Special Commissioner (operations) and spokesperson, Delhi Police, and  , DCP (Crime) and PRO, Delhi Police, visited CP’s Teddy Boy to launch a special digital initiative to curb drunken driving. For the initiative, called  , the Delhi Police has tied up with 25 restaurants and pubs in CP, Hauz Khas Village and Nehru Place, that will now show videos and messages on LED screens to deter drunken driving. While currently the 25 outlets are only showing messages, in the second phase of the initiative, the police is planning to install sensors that will record Delhi’s reactions to the messages.
 
  
  
 
 
 Dependra Pathak told us that the reason behind starting the initiative from Delhi’s pubs is that it will help them send a message to the youth, their target audience. He said, “People might not notice our campaign against drunken driving elsewhere, but they can’t miss it in pubs and restaurants. We are also planning to show these messages in cinema halls.” 
 The police officials at the launch added that security in CP is their top priority and they have a four-fold approach to ensure the safety of Delhiites – regular patrolling, intelligence reports, PCR vans and installation of CCTV cameras in restaurants and retail outlets. 
 About their strategy for the digital initiative, Pathak said, “It’s like the 25 restaurants are connected in real time. Eventually, we will connect these places places to all bars and restaurants in the country. That will be through chatterbots, and is an undergoing project.”
 He added, “Currently, we have started the initiative with messages about our ‘Do not drink and drive’ initiative and   (a women’s safety app by the Delhi Police). In the next stage, we will also have messages on underage drinking and other issues related to the youth.” The messages will also include cartoon characters. 
  
  
 Gautam Bhirani, founder and CEO, BarTalk, said, “This is the first phase in which 2,000 screens across 25 outlets will display the same messages. For the second phase, we are planning to use sensors to understand how people are reacting to the messages. These sensors will be able to identify the gender of the person in the bar and how many men and women have read the message. We are in the testing stage of this initiative.”
 
  
  
 
 
 Restaurateurs who have tied up with the Delhi Police for the initiative said that they are lo oking forward to more such associations in the future. The police has also tied up with a cab service provider for this initiative and the messages will play in the cabs as well. “As restaurateurs, we have been taking many steps to ensure that we arrange cabs for customers if they have had a drink. We have associated with cab service providers in the past, but this is a collaborative initiative and we hope that it will be something that every guest will find interesting,” restaurateur   said. “Apart from the main areas of the restaurant, we have installed the screens that will show the messages in the washrooms also,” said Amit Bagga, owner, Teddy Boy. 
 
 
  
 
