NEW DELHI: Though he had moved deftly to avoid political oblivion by allying with   after the Modi wave swept Bihar in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections,   found co-habiting with the   chief taxing business given the demands relating to his clan and administrative interference.

 Revelations such as Lalu’s conversation with jailed RJD leader   embarrassed the Bihar CM deeply. But he was left with few options but to put up with the ally he had embraced to forge a caste coalition to trump BJP and its allies.
 
 The perception that Lalu ran the departments under his sons also discomfited the CM who had a free run when he partnered BJP.
 
 Sources said the CM never broke contact with BJP even after winning the 2015 state polls and the central government on its part did not pull its hand on the assistance promised during the campaign.
 
 Often, on his visits to Delhi, Nitish met a few central ministers he had cordial relations with and a conversation kept flowing even as his troubles with the RJD continued to mount.
 
 “As he chafed in the company of Lalu, the coalition with BJP seemed, at least in hindsight, a better option,” said a leader familiar with developments.
 
 The case being made out was that with the 2014 Lok Sabha and 2015 Bihar polls out of the way, Nitish and PM   could begin to reset their ties. The recovery of BJP after defeats in Delhi and Bihar in 2015 also helped bring about a reconciliation as it became evident that Modi was retaining his winning touch. 
 
 Even before the UP elections earlier this year, Nitish had appeared to be losing interest in the mahagathbandhan, pointing out that without SP and BSP coming together, the opposition unity project was not going anywhere. 
 
 BJP’s massive win would only have made him more sure about re-aligning with the saffron force he had abandoned in 2013.
 
 The possibilities on the non-NDA side of the fence did not seem particularly alluring. Apart from having to deal with Lalu, Nitish was not overly taken in by the prospect of being the opposition candidate for PM. 
 
 He indicated to Congress leader   during a recent meeting that he would not be able to continue with Lalu unless the RJD leader offered convincing explanations for the corruption charges against his son and deputy CM   and others.
 
