PUNE: The prosecution on Monday cited a slew of evidence as grounds to reject the bail application of Bhabhen Bharali Saikia, accused of the   techie Rasila Raju’s   on January 29.

 The evidence cited included CCTV footage, recovery of blood-stained clothes and boots, the suspect’s post-crime conduct and extrajudicial confessions. 
 
 Saikia, who worked as a   in the IT firm, is facing the charge of strangulating Rasila (24) to death in a fit of rage, after she had admonished him for staring at her, and also threatened to report him to the management.
 
 While the Hinjewadi police have yet to file a charge sheet, Saikia moved a bail application in the   on March 31. Additional sessions judge L L Yenkar had sought the prosecution’s reply to the plea. 
 
 District government pleader Ujjwala Pawar, on behalf of the Hinjewadi police, said the security guard’s alleged act was a serious crime against society and the evidence collected so far was sufficient to deny bail. 
 
 “The matter has been posted for next hearing on April 20,” Pawar told TOI. 
 
 The prosecution stated that Rasila had come out of her ODC for a break when she found Saikia staring at her from nearby. The CCTV footage clearly shows the two having a verbal exchange, it stated.
 
 Later, when Rasila started moving back into the ODC, Saikia followed her inside. After allegedly killing her, he left the ODC using her ID-cum-access card, which was later recovered by police, with the blood-stained clothes and boots he was wearing at the time of the murder. 
 
 The company’s CCTV command centre officials have corroborated the fact that no one other than Saikia had entered the ODC where Rasila was working, the prosecution added.
 
 The prosecution stated that his conduct after committing the alleged murder, and the fact that he confided in his mother and a friend, showed his guilt. The police have recorded his friend’s statement as a witness under Section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, before a magistrate. Saikia had also called his mother on the cellphone to inform her of committing the crime, the prosecution stated.
 
