Mangaluru: Karnataka minister for fisheries Pramod Madhwaraj said that aquaculture has been reporting an exponential growth since 2009-10 and the sector is projected to register exports worth $5.6 billion in 2016-17.

 Speaking after inaugurating the three-day Aqua Aquaria India (AAI), a biennial showpiece event in Asia on aquaculture and ornamental fishery, being organized by the Marine Products Export Development Agency (MPEDA) here on Sunday, Madhwaraj, said “India can ambitiously target for foreign exchange earnings of 10 billion US dollar by 2020.”
 
 The satellite-imaging technology using GIS applications and mobile apps for real time monitoring have been introduced in aquaculture sector for better performance, he said, adding that the AAI 2017 would help the farming community to identify such priority areas and work towards future.
 
 He pointed out that the cultured shrimp contributes over 70% in terms of quantity, about 80% in terms of export value and over 53% in terms of value of seafood exports. “This is a significant achievement for India’s aquaculture sector,” he noted.
 
 India’s West coast, comprising states like Gujarat, Maharashtra, Goa and Karnataka, offer a huge potential for aquaculture that needs to be tapped with ecological safeguards, the minister added.
 
 “Karnataka government is in the process of formulating a new inland policy for a speedy development of aquaculture and ornamental fishery. The state government will extend all the necessary cooperation to ensure that sustainable progress is made towards the development of coastal shrimp farming in Karnataka under a rapid action plan,” he said.
 
 K Hari Babu, MP form Visakhapatnam, Andhra Pradesh, said that aquaculture is not limited to the coastal areas as it is making big strides in landlocked states like Haryana. “I suggest the MPEDA to hold its next event in Haryana,” he noted.
 
 MPEDA chairman A Jayathilak said the coastal shrimp aquaculture production has surged and crossed five lakh tonnes during the last couple of years because of combined efforts of various stakeholders like hatchery operators, feed manufacturers, input suppliers and processors. MP Nalin Kumar Kateel delivered a keynote address.
 
 ‘Don’t make it bureaucratic event’
 
 Mangaluru City South MLA J R Lobo said that such a mega event like AAI should be conducted involving more people’s representatives and general public. “It is important to include local representatives in a national event like this. No government scheme can be successful without the participation of people. Hence, do not make this a bureaucratic event,” the MLA suggested the organizers.
 
 
