Nagpur: State government’s Rs10,000 advance as immediate aid to farmers has come rather late and reached only a handful so far. According to official data, just over 3200 farmers across the state received the advance. Sources said a majority of PSU banks had not started giving the amount yet. The major share in giving the loan is of Vidarbha Konkan Gramin Bank and Maharasthra Gramin Bank followed by district central cooperative banks (DCCBs).  Farmers take yearly short-term loans for sowing expenses. Those who have defaulted on earlier loans cannot get fresh credit till the dues are cleared. They can begin with a clean slate after the waiver scheme is implemented. As the implementation was to take time, state government announced an advance of Rs10,000 so the farmers could start with cultivation. The amount was to be adjusted against the waiver. Almost 44 lakh farmers defaulted in repayment as on June 2016 and can be eligible for waiver. As against this, only 3200 odd have got the advance by this week.  The government resolution (GR) notifying the scheme was issued on June 14. However, the state government issued its guarantee to banks only on July 4. After that each bank is supposed to get a resolution approved by its respective board of directors. The process has been taken up by various banks. Only after this the loans would be granted, said state government sources monitoring the process. The mainstream banks that include PSUs have not begun lending on full scale basis. There are districts where the advances have not begun at all. In Nagpur, the number of beneficiaries is within 200, sources said. The Maharashtra State Cooperative Bank (MSCB) has given a loan of Rs439 crore to nine DCCBs for this advance. These include banks in Yavatmal, Parbhani, Beed, Nanded, Osmanabad, Nashik, Jalna and Aurangabad. Sources said some banks were not in a position to lend due to lack of funds.  Activists said if the advance was delayed it will not serve any purpose. Ideally farmers should have funds in their hands by May 31 so the sowing could begin in time, said Kishore Tiwari, director of state government run Vasantrao Naik Shetkari Swavalamban Mission (VNSSM). He said the banks needed to be sensitive towards the farmers. “Businessmen are granted huge loans without much hassle. The banks’ due diligence comes only at the time of lending to farmers,” said Tiwari. It is already June third week and sowing is at an advanced stage. The funds should have been granted earlier,” said Tiwari. Vijay Jawandhia, veteran farm activist, said banks officials in Wardha where he operates said they had no orders for lending the amount so far.