KOLHAPUR: The  , Kolhapur (SUK) has formed cluster of colleges for the upcoming summer examination that is scheduled to commence from March 24.

 According to  , controller of examinations, SUK, the attendance of the supervisors has always posed a serious question mark during every semester examination and this step will help resolve the issue.
 
 “The senior supervisor position requires senior authorities from colleges and the university department. However, it has been found out that many of the senior authorities are unwilling to participate, resulting in the last-minute burden on few people. The formation of cluster is necessary considering the depleting number of supervisors during the exam,” he said.
 
 Kakade said now every cluster will have a lead college or department that will look after the supervisor requirement in their cluster during the semester examinations. They will have to manage the supervisors and assign their duties that will ensure the exam process goes on smoothly.
 
 “We have divided the examination in five sessions. The first session will commence from March 24 and will conclude on April 8, while the next session will commence from April 10 and will conclude on April 22. The last session will commence from May 22 and conclude on June 3,” said Kakade.
 
 He added, “The varsity, through a circular, has asked the coordinator of the cluster to hold a meeting with principals or the head of the departments about appointing supervisors for exam duties so that the last minute chaos is avoided. The list of appointed senior supervisors has been asked to be submitted to the exam department as well.”
 
 According to Kakade, supervisors get their honorarium for the examination duties including the travelling allowance. This work involves participation of at the most five days for an examination session.
 
 “We have some 284 examination centres across the Kolhapur,   and Satara districts and 40 departments on the campus. For smooth conduct of the exam, we need at least 325 supervisors and the cluster process will help in streamlining the process,” he said.
 
 Another SUK official said that during winter examination in 2016, university had faced issues relating to the appointments of senior supervisors. Hence, the step of appointment through cluster colleges was taken.
 
 Box
 
 March/April 2017 semester exam sessions 
 
 Session Period Total exam days
 
 1 March 24-April 4 12
 
 2 April 10- April 22 10
 
 3 April 24- May 6 11
 
 4 May 8-May 20 10
 
 5 May 22-June 3 12
 
 Number of clusters in division
 
 Kolhapur: 16
 
 Sangli: 12
 
 Satara: 11
 
 
