NAGPUR: Dressed in shades of turmeric, green and red, several Bengalis came together at public functions for partaking in  , also known as   since it is celebrated on the fifth day of the spring every year. Some others conducted puja at their homes in the traditional manner.

 Since Saraswati is the goddess of music and education, books and musical instruments were worshipped as part of the puja. Even though the rituals observed by different groups vary, the   and sweet dish remain common. Musical events were also conducted in various parts of the city.
 
 Chandra bandhopadhyay, a resident of Katol road, conducted the puja at her home. “Swan, the vehicle of goddess Saraswati, is placed near the deity’s feet. Also, jujube (known as Ber fruit) is offered to the goddess in the puja. We start eating the fruit only after that. For puja, we especially use yellow genda, palash and safed phool (flowers). The deity likes yellow, red and white, and we make sure we dress in those colours,” she said.
 
 Saraswati puja on Katol Road is celebrated at the town hall every year.
 
 “Back in Kolkata, this day is known as the Bengali Valentine’s day since students don’t study on this day, and all educational institutions give holiday to celebrate the day,” said Dr Tapan Chakraborty of Bengali Association.
 
 Dinanath high school is observing its 99th year of celebrations. Saraswat Sabha Library, which celebrated its 106th year, is one of the oldest institutions celebrating the puja, Chakraborty said.
 
 In Dhantoli’s BC Chatterjee Hall, members of Bengali Association, Kali Puja Committee and Vidarbha Bangla had gathered for puja and bhog. “The sculptor for our idol has come from Kumartoli, Kolkata. He too feels that the tradition of celebrating puja is losing among young generation. Nowadays, children have no time. Also, there is a question of bunking school for puja,” said Dr Tapan Chakraborty.
 
 Oriyas in the city also celebrated the day with much fanfare. PP Mishra, secretary of Oriya Samaj, said that the community came together for the puja at the newly built Jagannath temple and community hall at Kukde layout.
 
 “We decorated the hall with alpana, a form of rangoli, and installed the idol. Our priest, who belongs to Kolkata, conducted the rituals,” he said. A community feast was organized in the evening. “Meetha bhaat (sweet rice) is different from payesh. We have it along with a variety of vegetables,” he added.
 
