NAGPUR: The sole gateway to prestigious IITs,   test, was held across the country on Sunday.  , regional head of Resonance said, “This year there were some  . Physics saw a less difficult version this year. Overall Advanced paper was easy with some new inclusion of comprehensive matrix match type questions.”

 Dilip Vaidya, director of academics at ICAD said, “This time, Mathematics part in both the papers was comparatively easy while Chemistry part in paper 1 and Physics part in paper 2 were relatively tough. Taken both the papers together, it is observed that out of 108 questions, there were 29 easy level questions, 48 moderate level questions and 31 difficult/ lengthy questions. Apparently, qualifying JEE Advanced should be easy task for all who follow proper technique, but getting top ranks will be tough job as usual.” 
 
 Aakash Chaudhry, director, Aakash Educational Services said, “Questions from paper 1 mainly targeted basic understanding of subjects’ concepts. Though, paper was easier as compared to last year, ambiguity was observed. Introduction of partial marking in multiple correct answers questions must have provided relief to aspirants. Paper 2, however had some difficult questions which did not have lengthy calculations but needed in depth knowledge.”
 
 Garima Tiwari, a student, told TOI, “My preparation included self study and believe that I did a good job in the paper. Though the questions were difficult, my chemistry section went strong.” 
 
 T Vijay, also a student, said, “Questions from physics section were a hard nut to crack but one was at ease when it came to chemistry and Maths. As expected, paper 1 was comparatively easier than Paper 2, with latter containing tricky question in all the three section. I’m really satisfied with my performance as I have been on my toes after the JEE Main paper.” 
 
 Anshul Nasery, another student said, “Physical chemistry presented its difficult version in the paper, it had lesser ambiguities but I found it extensive to a certain degree. But surprisingly Mathematics was quite easy. Questions on matrix and differential equations provided an easy impression. Since my practice session included solving previous’ years paper, I did not find the paper very difficult.” 
 
