PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The Pimpri Chinchwad unit of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is hoping that a decision on an alliance with the Shiv Sena for the February 2017 municipal elections will be finalized by January 28. 

 BJP’s Chinchwad MLA Laxman Jagtap, who is also the Pimpri Chinchwad unit chief, made the announcement in a press conference in Pimpri on Tuesday.
 
 Pimpri Chinchwad unit of the BJP is brimming with confidence about dislodging the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) from power in   after the entry of NCP leader and former mayor Azam Pansare, besides seven corporators and independent MLA Mahesh Landge into the party. However, BJP leaders felt it will be easier to dislodge the NCP if there is an alliance with the Shiv Sena.
 
 “Talks about an alliance will be over by January 28 and a final decision will be taken. Shiv Sena has not given any ultimatum to us and there was no talk about 50:50 seat-sharing. Talks were only about the wards where we expect to win,” Jagtap said.
 
 Elsewhere, NCP leader Ajit Pawar, commenting on Pansare’s reasons for switching to the BJP, said he became the mayor, was the party leader in PCMC, and the city unit president, and nominated as MP and MLA in 1999, but lost the election. Pansare’s chances of winning the MLC election last November in Pune were dim, Pawar added. 
 
 There are a total of   which are divided into 32 ward panels with four seats each. “Republican Party of India (Athavale group) has demanded 30 seats and Rashtriya Samaj Paksha (RSP) has demanded 23 seats. 
 
 Meanwhile, Jagtap alleged that a spokesperson of Pimpri Chinchwad unit of the NCP had threatened BJP aspirant Yashwant Bhosale during an election programme. A police complaint has been lodged with the Pimpri police station.
 
 “We will demand that the state election commission declare ward number 20 as sensitive,” Jagtap said. Bhosale, an NCP labour union leader, joined the BJP a few weeks ago.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Yogesh Behl, spokesperson for the Pimpri Chinchwad unit of the NCP, refuted the allegations. He said they were a political stunt by Bhosale. 
 
 Senior police inspector of Pimpri police station VV Mugalikar said, “Bhosale has lodged a complaint under sections 504, 506 and 352 for verbal abuse, criminal intimidation and attempting to beat someone. This is a non-cognisable offence. We will later take preventive action.”
 
