NEW DELHI: In yet another 
  between grand alliance 
  , Bihar deputy chief minister  's name plate was covered and later removed at an event to be attended by 
  on Saturday.

 Tejashwi, who is   supremo  's younger son, was scheduled to attend a programme marking the first anniversary of 'Vishwa Yuva Kaushal Divas' at Patna's Gyan Bhawan. He was listed as a "distinguished guest" on a promotional pamphlet for the event and a plaque bearing his name was also placed at the guests table.
 
 However, the plaque bearing the Bihar deputy chief minister's name was covered up with a blue pad, before being taken off the table ahead of the event's inauguration.
 
  
  
  
 
 
 Accused of 
  , Tejashwi has been facing pressure to come clean on the allegations, which he and his party has vehemently denied. There's also been a growing clamour for his resignation from chief minister  's cabinet.
 
 After CBI filed a case against Tejashwi Yadav on July 5, JD(U) has stepped up pressure on RJD chief Lalu Prasad and his family members to disclose the source of "massive property" that they allegedly own.
 
  Without taking any names, JD(U) spokesperson Neeraj Kumar referred to the allegations by the opposition   that Lalu's family members had acquired benami properties at various places in the country, saying these needed to be explained.
 
 A defiant Tejashwi had said that he has no intention of stepping down and the allegations against him were a conspiracy desgined by the BJP. Backing up his son, RJD chief Lalu Prasad, who is also under investigation in connection to a number of scams, insisted that Tejashwi was blameless. He also rubbished reports of fault lines emerging in Bihar's grand alliance .
 
 "Tejashwi will not resign. There is no question of his resignation... Mahagathbandhan (ruling Grand Alliance) is intact in Bihar," Lalu said after a party meeting on Friday.
 
 Meanwhile, senior JD(U) leaders are looking to party chief Nitish Kumar to take the final call on Tejashwi's political fate in the face of a recalcitrant RJD that has made it clear that the younger Yadav son will not resign at any cost.
 
 "Nitish Kumar's stand on corruption is well known. He will never compromise on it," JD(U) spokesperson K C Tyagi previously said.
 
 
