Craving some comfort food? No longer do you have to actually visit iruttu kadais to satisfy your cravings for the famous halwa from Tirunelveli or take a quick drive to Srivilliputtur to grab that scrumptious box of milk khoa.

 Nostalgia-inducing, special sweets and savouries from your home town can now B be ordered through a website and delivered the next day . Nativespecial -as the name puts it -is a startup that brings signature snacks from various districts of Tamil Nadu to your plate. The idea dawned upon two brothers   and   when they wanted to taste Panchamritham that they so dearly loved in their childhood. “Being natives of Palani, Panchamritham has always been an inherent part of our boyhood memories. But beyond its native town, it's rarely available,“ said Baskaran. Older brother Parthiban, a software engineer working in the USA, found that `coconut barfi', an easily available delicacy locally was marketed so well, that it found many takers even outside of India.
 
 Post-market research, in 2013, as a part-time venture, the founders went ahead to set up a website with a few products. “We were still pursuing our corporate careers when we set up shop,“ added 30-year-old Baskaran. In 2015, Baskaran entered the business full-time and decided to scale up, while Parthiban continued part-time.
 
 During the initial days, the brothers had set up a marketplace model, where vendors dealt with the packing and delivery . After complaints on poor packaging quality of and delayed delivery , the com pany migrated into a stockand-sale model where the packaging, delivery is taken care of by the startup itself.“As a result, the   are available at close to double the price offered at the stores themselves,“ said Veluchamy .For instance, 250 grams of Nendram chips from Nagercoil cost Rs 187. The startup takes a 10% profit over and above the original cost of the delicacy , packing and courier charges.
 
 Most of the products have found their place in Native Special's network when Veluchamy travelled within the state to make the local snack makers go online. With over 35 delicacies on the website now, the founder says that the not-so-famous snacks have also found their niche market.“Tirunelveli Halwa and Srivilliputur Palkhoa are naturally among the best sellers, but Manalmedu murukku , a savoury from Karur, also gaining popularity , “ he added. Targeting those who have left their hometown for work but not their craving, the business has posted a 100% growth every year.
 
 In January 2017, the duo received funding from Indian   (NAN). Speaking about the investment, Anand Thangaraj, lead investor from NAN said, “Nativespecial's unique attempt will revive the vanishing traditional cottage sector and thereby contribute to the rural economy . Further, it has a huge market potential with its ability to deliver across India.“
 
 Post funding, the startup is looking to tap the overseas market and expand in cities such as Hyderabad, beyond its current markets in Tamil Nadu and Bengaluru. “We will also set up more centres in Hyderabad and Bengaluru as and when we expand. In the next three years, we look to tap the entire south Indian market with signature delicacies from all the towns in our catalogue,“ added Veluchamy .
 
 (This series captures the startup ecosystem in the state)
 
 
