CHENNAI: Almost one in three children from across two Kendriya Vidyalayas in the city —   — have been asked to repeat Class 9 after the schools found most of them lacking adequate math skills. Seventy-six out of the 270-odd students from these schools who wrote their Class 9 exams earlier this year, have been held back as a result of failing predominantly in mathematics, with a few failing in science and social studies. This is after giving a re-exam (Eligible for Improvement Of Performance) in April in which less than 10% passed, shocking parents across the board.

 Angered by the decision, parents have decided to move the Madras high court. Santosh Kumar - whose son has been detained at KV-IIT - says that the CCE (Continuous & Comprehensive Evaluation) system that was in place until the previous academic year takes into account the overall grade, not just subject-wise grades. “My son has scored an overall ‘D’ grade, which is a criterion for being passed, but he’s been detained.” He claimed that several others who scored the same overall grade had been promoted. 
 
 Arumugam, another aggrieved parent, said that his son’s school (KV-CLRI) had not entertained the grievances of parents after the results were out. “They have simply asked the students to repeat the grade,” he says. Other parents expressed concern over the practical difficulties parents now face, saying that it would be extremely tough finding a new school at this juncture. 
 
 Both schools had only conducted one round of EIOP, leaving parents with the option of pulling out their children or letting them repeat. But the CBSE bylaws state that students should take at least 2 EIOPs in case of failing. 
 
 Anuradha Prasad, senior faculty at  , said the CCE system was largely for passing students. “We should make students take as many re-tests as possible, until they score a passing grade,” she says. 
 
 But M  , principal, KV-IIT, told TOI that the evaluation had been done as per the CBSE’s rules. “The parents should have approached us during PTA meetings itself with doubts, but they didn’t,” he said, refusing to comment more on the large numbers of detainees.
 
