MANGALURU: Over 4,000 police personnel, 700   cameras and six drone cameras will keep a watchful eye over the harmony rally of CPM to ensure law and order, which will be addressed by Kerala chief minister  , in the city on Saturday. 

 At a joint press conference on Thursday, city police commissioner M   and superintendent of police  , said all measures will be taken to ensure a peaceful atmosphere during the rally that will be addressed by the chief minister of Kerala. 
 
 “Freedom of speech and the freedom to protest are rights of every individual as per the Indian Constitution. We cannot prevent one from making speech and all measures will be taken to let Kerala chief minister to address the rally in the city peacefully,” said Chandra Sekhar.
 
 He said the city police will deploy over 2,000 policemen including six SPs, 10 DySPs, 20 inspectors on Saturday. “In addition to the deployment of policemen from other districts, we will also install 600 CCTV cameras at identified locations and use six drones to monitor the situation,” the commissioner said and requested people not to pay heed to the social media rumours.
 
 “Report any rumours that spread false messages regarding the rally or any other law and order situation to the nearest police station. We will take necessary action as per law. We have already made 120 people execute bonds of good behavior as a preventive measure. Those organizations that oppose the visit of Kerala chief minister have given in writing that they will not resort to any illegal activities,” Chandra Sekhar said. 
 
 Meanwhile, SP Borase said, “As per a verdict of Kerala high court, which was later upheld by the Supreme Court, nobody can give call to hold bundh and hartal.” 
 
 The DK police will deploy six platoons of KSRP, 10 platoons of DAR, 550 constables/head constables, 300 home guards, 123 officers, 4 DySPs, an ASP and 2 SPs in the district. In addition, 17 check posts, 100 vehicles, 2 rapid intervention vehicles and 100 CCTV cameras will also enhance the security measures, Borase said.
 
 “We will also take necessary action to recover the damage from those who protest against Kerala CM’s visit,” he added. 
 
 The commissioner said miscreants had set fire to files and an almirah of a CPM office in Thokkottu on Wednesday. Similarly, two cases of destroying publicity materials of CPM were also registered in Mangaluru North and East stations. Inquiry into the case is under progress, he added. 
 
 Quote
 
 Minister for food, civil supplies and consumer affairs U T Khader said that it is the duty of the government to ensure safety and security when chief minister of a neighbouring state arrive in Karnataka. “It is our duty to ensure all security measures. Ensuring peace in the district should be the main aim of all organisations. Giving bundh or hartal call reflects their destructive mentality. They cannot be considered as social leaders. State government will prove that the police is efficient to ensure peace during the rally on February 25,” he added. 
 
 
