NEW DELHI: As watering holes along highways went dry after the 
  on Friday that the ban on sale of liquor within 500 metres of highways across the country will now extend to pubs, bars and hotels on the highways, most states are left staring at 
  in the impact.

 As per early estimates, 
  . Excise minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule told the media that the government would suffer loss of Rs 7,000 crore due to closures. As a quick fix, the BJP-led state government started work on a plan to denotify state highways in major cities to circumvent the apex court ruling.
 
 So far four states — Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Chandigarh — have already denotified the state highways. As a result, they will not be required to wind up liquor shops, permit rooms and bars as per the apex court order. Bawankule said, of the 25,513 liquor shops and bars in Maharashtra, 15,699 will be affected by the ban. He also said the permits of such establishments within the affected area which had not been renewed by December 2016 will be cancelled. In Delhi, 100 authorised  , restaurants and hotel bars had been shut down by Saturday morning.
 
 And more could be added to that list. The state excise department will soon carry out a fresh stock-taking to ensure no restaurant or outlet escapes the proscription. Saturday saw the excise department receiving numerous complaints about the affected restaurants being outside the stipulated distance.
 
 Some owners sought measuring afresh, while many anxious eatery investors went back to their drawing boards to calculate what the ban on liquor would do to revenues.
 
 Delhi government data lists 704 restaurants with bar licences, 399 private vends and 170 liquor shops in the malls. There are 350 government-run liquor outlets. The excise department identified 100 as running foul of the Supreme Court’s directive. In Chennai, as the clock struck 12 on March 31, some of the city’s oldest and swankiest clubs and bars located on the arterial Anna Salai — which is part of NH45 — have been forced to down their shutters. Nearly 100 star category hotels downed shutters of their bars. Two of the city’s oldest British-era clubs — Madras Gymkhana and Cosmopolitan Club — have also been forced to follow suit. By the morning of April 1, members of the over 140-year-old Cosmopolitan Club received SMSes and emails that the club was closing down its bar.
 
 Of the 5,672 liquor outlets (not bars) in Tamil Nadu, 2,700 would be affected. The loss is estimated at Rs180 crore daily on weekdays. The   order also effectively shuts down 2,700 Tasmac liquor outlets. If the ban stays the way it is, Tamil Nadu could lose anything between Rs 4,500 crore and Rs 10,000 crore in revenues from sale of liquor.
 
 While most liquor vends along the national highway in North Goa downed their shutters and painted their signboards black, it was business as usual for a few that continued to sell alcohol to truck drivers and cabbies, among others, in flagrant violation of the ban. Justifying their stand, some bar owners said they hadn’t yet received a copy of the SC order. Of the approximately 12,000 outlets, 3,080 have been shut down, leading to a revenue loss of Rs 55 crore.
 
 In Odisha, even a military canteen was shut following the ban. The government said 1,167 outlets located within 500 meters of the national highways had been shut. They included 60 hotels, 205 restaurants, 51 beer parlours, one military canteen and 74 country spirit shops. Excise department secretary Bishnupada Sethi estimated the annual loss at about Rs 1,000 crore.
 
 Incidentally, the Supreme Court order will have no bearing on stores in Karnataka up to June 30 because it states that all holders of licences issued before December 2016 can continue to function until their next renewal in September 2017, whichever is earlier. The renewal is done in July and is valid up to June next year. Of the total number of 10,051 licence holders in Karnataka, over 8,000 are retail outlets, bars and restaurants and hotel licences. According to dealers, 70% of them are likely to be impacted.
 
 Of the 5,500 liquor retailers in West Bengal, 2,140 have their retail shops and bars along the national and state highways. According to preliminary estimates, these outlets are likely to incur a loss of Rs 1,000 crore on an annual revenue of Rs 4,000 crore. As much as 20% of the state’s liquor revenue comes from highway shops and 25% of retail stores on highways. In Chandigarh, as many as 91 hotels, bars and restaurants at the most happening spots in the city have stopped serving liquor. These include the Taj Chandigarh and JW Marriott. Incidentally, in 2006, Chandigarh had declared many of its thoroughfares as state highways because the municipal corporation did not have the funds to maintain these stretches and wanted central funds for their upkeep. At the 11th hour they de-notified these roads and changed the nomenclature to major district roads, saving them from the ban.
 
 The district administration in Gurgaon has started to form two committees to ensure the implementation of the apex court’s order. The two committees will take charge of measurement of the distance of the liquor outlets from the highways and later list all the relevant outlets. The listing has not been finalised so far, officials said. The distance has been relaxed for the hill states of Sikkim, Meghalaya and Himachal Pradesh.
 
