BENGALURU: A right shoulder injury suffered in training early this year forced Indian shuttler   out of the prestigious All England Open and the Swiss Open and prompted him to focus harder on his fitness.

 The 24-year-old, whose season began with much promise when he reached the final of the Syed Modi international Grand Prix Gold event in January, was sidelined for nearly two months. It was a frustrating time for a shuttler waiting to breakthrough on the big stage. On his return to action, he defied the odds to win his maiden Super Series title in Singapore last month.
 
 "I think my level of fitness has really gone up and that made me more confident about my game. I began training continuously for nearly two months. That made a difference," said Praneeth. "The training schedule was changed by Indonesian coach Mulyo Handoyo. Before, we used to do more short sessions.
 
 Now, we do three to four hour sessions. That helped me a lot," he said.
 
 Speaking on the sidelines of the 38th Petroleum Sports Promotion Board championship, the 24-year-old said he was thrilled to be only the fourth Indian shuttler to win a Super Series title after  , Kidambi   and  .
 
 "I feel happy as not many players from India have won a Super Series title and if you consider the men, it's only me and Srikanth who have done it," he said.   defeated his good friend Srikanth in a historic final for India in Singapore. "Winning is special but not beating him," he said.
 
 Praneeth, the world No. 22, said better fitness had given him plenty of confidence as he targets success in Thailand, Indonesia and Australia. His main focus, though is the World Championships.
 
 "Now I can be strong right from the first point. Before that wasn't the case. If I went all out right from the first point, I would worry about the third game. Now that is not the case, which is a good sign," he said.
 
 "Confidence is an important factor towards the end of a match. If you observe the top players, how they play in the first point is exactly how they play the last point too.
 
 Some players who don't have that confidence will be a little scared towards the end. That matters initially. After one or two wins, all that changes," he said.
 
