AHMEDABAD: Jaideep Baldania, from Rajkot is a postgraduate in IT from   technological   (GTU) and a B Pharm graduate. With his versatile qualification   claims, he could have tried for a swanky workplace in an IT or pharma company. But when he was given an appointment letter as a deputy chitnis (secretary) at the Morbi collectorate, he had no second thoughts.

 Like Baldania, there were many candidates with professional postgraduate degrees among the 3,100 candidates, who were handed out appointment letters for class 3 posts by the panchayat services board at  . The appeal of a seventh pay commission salary, fixed vacations and holidays along with comfort, prestige and security of a government job had no match.
 
 “In these times of economic and job uncertainties, a stable government income is like manna. My IT skills can be utilized to improve land supervision works, establishment, record of right, administration and running of other branches. It’s a win-win situation for both,” says Baldania.
 
 On Monday, chief minister Vijay Rupani and deputy CM Nitin Patel gave away the appointment letters for class 3 posts of additional assistant engineer, deputy chitnis (secretary) to collector, staff nurse, lab technician, divisional accountant, junior clerk , gram sewak, female and multi-purpose health worker. Anand Radhanpura, 28, an MSc in Pharmacy jumped at the opportunity of a government job — a deputy chitnis officer. “Who will let go such an opportunity? I feel the government should make recruitment a regular process.”
 
 Swati Thakkar, 28, is an MSc in medical laboratory technology (MLT) from Morbi. She was appointed as a lab assistant 226 km away in Borsad. “The distance does not matter. In fact, since it was a government job, my in-laws encouraged me. My husband too does not have a problem,” says Thakkar.
 
 An MBA Mehul Patel, 28, served as a junior clerk at the metropolitan court in Ahmedabad till he appeared for GPSC exams last year. “My role as a divisional accountant in Ahmedabad zilla panchayat is better. My degree will be put to its best use in zilla panchayat office.” 
 
