PUNE: It will be a memorable   for a group of scientists at the city-based   (ARDE) as their Advanced Towed Artillery Gun System (ATAGS) will be showcased at the parade on Thursday.

 The gun, 155mm X 52 calibre, is a fully indigenous towed artillery gun system project undertaken in mission mode by   (DRDO) as part of the artillery modernisation programme of the   . The city-based ARDE and Research and Development Establishment (Engineers) is the nodal agency for design and development of the gun where most of the work is being carried out.
 
 The armament system of the ATAGS, which comprises 52-calibre gun barrel with breech mechanism, muzzle brake and recoil system, has been designed and developed to fire the 155mm calibre ammunition held by army with enhanced range, accuracy and precision as well as greater fire power.
 
 The ARDE designed and developed two gun systems jointly , one from Bharat Forge Ltd, Pune, and the other from Tata Power SED Bengaluru.Both the development partners have taken this task on high priority in the project and established infrastructure, plant and machineries.
 
 The partners were involved in each phase of development right from the inception of this project. They have worked hand in hand with DRDO team and helped in realising fully integrated system expeditiously .
 
 Speaking to TOI, SV Gade, programme director, ATAGS, said, “ All the objectives of the trials were achieved in the first go itself. It was a major milestone for the project.“ The system will be capable of achieving firing ranges of 35km for boat tailed; 45 km for base bleed ERFB ammunition.
 
 “It will also have the capability to programme and fire future long range guided munitions to achieve precision and deep strike in enemy territory ,“ Gade added.
 
 The system is configured with all electric drive technology for the first time in the world that will ensure maintenance free and reliable operation over longer periods of time.
 
 Gade further said, “In addition, the gun system is integrated with a thermal imager to impart night firing capability in direct fire mode. It is also equipped with an advanced recoil system for compactness and suitable gun barrel coating for enhanced fatigue life.“
 
 Director ARDE KM Rajan said a deep understanding of critical systems and maturity in designing knowhow for Indian armaments have helped the organisation in building the gun system.
 
