Expectations of double-digit earnings growth in the next two years after a subdued performance in 2016 are driving portfolio managers to bet on the Bank Nifty index. A higher beta factor of the index remains an additional trigger.
 
  With limited investment choice, portfolio managers tend to prefer indices with better earnings growth prospects coupled with a higher beta. Barring  , all eleven constituents of the Bank Nifty have a beta higher than 1.30.
  
  Beta is a statistical measure of how much a security or a stock index fluctuates with respect to the broader market. A beta of 1.3 means the security will fluctuate 30% more than market either way. Therefore, if the bank stocks are expected to do well in future, their gains will be higher than that of the broader market. This is often called as beta play. Private banks such as HDFC Bank,   and   are the main contributors to the surge in the Bank Nifty.
  
 In the past three months, six private sector banks have contributed nearly 95% of the total index move. These banks have lower non-performing assets than the state-owned banks, which mitigate the risk for portfolio managers.
  
  Also, relatively lower exposure to the rural economy alleviates the fear of the impact of any possible farm loan waiver.
  
  For instance, public sector banks including  ,  ,   and   have 27.4%, 8.5%, 20.3% and 10.7% of their total outstanding agricultural loans overdue which were tendered in the UP in that order, while the proportion is 3% for Axis Bank and 0.5% for HDFC Bank, according to data compiled by Kotak Institutional Equities.
  
  In the third quarter of FY17, the proportion of gross nonperforming loans (NPLs) and restructured loans was 3.4% and 10.1% for the state-owned banks; for private banks, the figures were 1.3% and 4.4%.
  
  Analysts are expecting double-digit earnings growth in the Bank Nifty for the next two years.
  
  According to Bloomberg consensus estimates, the bank Nifty index’s earnings are expected to be Rs 959 and Rs 1,229 for 2017 and 2018, respectively, which implies growth of 17.9% and 28.2%.
  
  Banking stocks contribute nearly quarter of the total earnings for the Nifty which supports the beta strategy of the portfolio managers in case of the Bank Nifty index.
