NOIDA: Less than a month after a major fire broke out on the premises of a private company   in Sector 11 killing six employees, at least three fires were reported from three different buildings in Noida’s Sector 63 and  .

 While one of the buildings in F block of Sector 63 was completely gutted in the fire, another major fire engulfed the office of a four-floor building in Sector 63.
 
 The office of the first company –   – which deals in wooden handicrafts was completely gutted in the fire that started around 9:45am and went on till about late afternoon.
 
 Fire tenders were rushed to the spot around 10:15am and fire officers tried to control the fire which started at the third floor of the building, eye-witnesses said. As the fire got uncontrollable, one hydraulic platform and nine fire tenders reached the spot.
 
 The office had around 400 people working on the three floors when the fire started. However, they evacuated the building as soon as the employees at the third floor noticed the fire.
 
 There were two theories floated for the cause of fire. While some eye-witnesses said that an   cylinder kept at the third floor caught fire when an employee went to light fire during the process of wood-cutting, police and the company officials pointed towards “short-circuit” being the possible reason. The LPG cylinder was kept there for commercial purposes.
 
 "An LPG cylinder whose regulator was left on was leaking and it caught fire as soon as an employee went to light the gas. As the floor had a lot of inflammable material kept in tin cartons, the fire spread in minutes in the lower floors as the thinner flowed down. The basement had a lot of wooden material which too caught fire,” said an employee of a neighbouring company.
 
 However, Police said that the since there was continuous welding work going at the third floor, it got overheated, leading to a short-circuit in the wiring which sparked the thinner being used.
 
 “There was possibility of the short circuit in the wiring as the electric boards were damaged. As there was a lot of inflammable material at the floor, it caught fire quickly. We are also exploring if any of the LPG cylinders had a blast although two of them have been recovered from the same floor,” Radheshyam Yadav, fire officer 3, said.
 
 “We heard two blasts around 10:30 am which was after the fire started,” said Vishal, a worker in the neighbouring company   and Builders.
 
 Another fire broke out at an office in 28 building of the same sector. “The fire was caused because of an electric board catching fire at the terrace of B-28. There was some wooden waste material at the terrace which caught fire after the board got the sparks,” said Meet Pal Singh, fire officer, who reached the spot. One fire tender was used to douse the fire.
 
 Another major blaze was reported from the company office of Epack Polymers Private Limited.
 
 At least 15 fire tenders rushed to the spot and five had reached the spot till 7:30 pm.
 
 “We are still in the process of dousing the fire. The reason of the fire will be analysed,” said Aman Sharma, deputy director, fire department, Meerut zone.
 
