PUNE: Boycott of lectures by 57 second-year students of Master of Social Service in   Institute of Social Service (KIoSS) over the   in fees will enter its ninth day on Thursday. 

 The   between the college administration and vice-chancellor N R Karmalkar of Savitribai Phule Pune University has instructed the college to roll back the hike.
 
 Karmalkar, said, “I have told them they will have to roll back the hiked   and stick to what was in the prospectus when the students joined the institute. The   is affiliated to SPPU. It cannot unilaterally take a decision about the hike. The administration tried to justify to me the increase in fee but I told them that as much as I accept that they are facing a crunch in their financial condition, the fee cannot be hiked without permission from the university.”
 
 The students are protesting against the increase in tuition fee from Rs 14,980 to Rs 23,280 and the increase in hostel fee from Rs 15,000 to Rs 21,000. The students want the administration to keep the fee as mentioned in the prospectus when they joined the institute last year.
 
 The new universities act stipulates setting up of a fee fixation committee which will approve any hike in affiliated colleges. But the committee has not yet been formed in SPPU. “There are many positions that need to be filled after due election process as per the act. The entire process will take six more months,” Karmalkar said.
 
 In KIoSS's case no action may be required but he has warned other colleges. “There are many punishments for acting without permission from the university. From a simple fine to de-affiliation of the college, the action would be on the basis of the extent of wrong-doing by the college,” the VC added.
 
 One of the protesting students said, “The director said there will be a meeting between the administration and the management in two days. We have decided to extend our boycott for two more days. We will see what decision the admin takes and then decide further course of action.”
 
 Despite repeated attempts, Deepak Walokar, director of KIoSS refused to respond to SMSs sent and calls made to him.
 
