NAGPUR: Most of the teenagers today lack in understanding the essence of knowledge and have forgotten the value   has for a bright future. While some have been doing exceedingly well, many do not have even   knowledge in this competitive age, said Heramb Kulkarni, an educationist, recently.

 Delivering a   on ‘Kharach apli mula shiktat ka?’, organized by Yashwantrao Chavan Pratishthan at Baburao Dhanwate Hall, Shankar Nagar, Kulkarni said that education is one of the main parameters while determining economic, social and cultural growth of a society. The true meaning of education is to gain knowledge and not marks. There are many people who have no formal education, but they are masters of their craft. Working hard, and with passion, is the only way to get expertise in the chosen field, he said. 
 
 Students showing willingness to learn many skills should be backed by government policies which play an important role in promoting education and research projects, Kulkarni said.
 
 Girish Gandhi, president of Nagpur unit of Chavan Pratishthan, said, “Development of society is directly proportional to the education level of its residents. But education does not mean getting a degree, but gaining knowledge. Students should keep themselves updated to secure a good future as the rate of unemployment has gone up in the recent years. Students should aim to get knowledge rather than studying to pass the examination.”
 
 Pradeep Vitarkar, member of the pratishthan, said, “With the advancement of technology, the youngsters have changed their direction from technical fields to creative art, which is a good sign. But this should not be used as an excuse to not have basic knowledge of science, mathematics, economics or history. Social media has diverted the attention of young minds. However, there are many who still work hard and prove themselves in their profession.”
 
 Seema Dandige, who was seated in the audience, told TOI, “Such programmes help parents see the perspective of their children and the current scenario of education. Most children have a tendency to run after success than accuracy which subsequently brings problems in their lives. Students should attend such workshops and acknowledge the significance of education.”
 
 
