AURANGABAD: The high number of complaints against doctors taking cuts (commission) has prompted the state government to form a high-level committee to draft a Bill against the ill-practice.Some of the leading medical professionals from different parts of the country have been unanimously voicing their concern against the practice and demanding stringent rules against medical professionals indulging in unethical practices.

 The eight-member committee, which was formed on Friday, is being headed by former state director general of police Pravin Dixit. It has been given two months to prepare the draft bill and submit it to the state government. “We are on the job and preparing the draft. We will ensure meeting the set deadline,” Dixit told TOI on Saturday.
 
 “The draft is aimed at bringing a serious check on medical professionals taking cuts and it will simultaneously benefit the commoners,” he said.
 
 The remaining members of the committee are from the medical fraternity. Dr Pravin Shingare of DMER is member secretary while the members are KEM dean Avinash Supe, Mumbai-based Prince Ali Khan Hospital director Sanjay Oak, Maharashtra   administrator Abhay Chowdhury, Thane-based Snehal Hospital’s   and NGO representative Himmatrao Bawaskar of Mahad in Raigad. One more medical expert is yet to be appointed.
 
 The long-pending issue attracted everybody’s attention when one of the leading heart surgeons in Mumbai, Dr Ramakanta Panda, put up hoardings across the metropolis saying: “No commission. Only honest medical opinion”.
 
 The   (IMA) objected to the banner and put pressure on the surgeon to remove the banner. However, the surgeon approached the state government, seeking a strong legislation against the practice of doctors taking commission.
 
 The state, in its order for the formation of committee, has stated that the practice of taking cuts in the medical profession is leading to discontent among people, due to which the government is receiving a large number of complaints.
 
 The order states, “Now, it has become essential to have a law in place banning cut practice. For preparing the draft of law, the government was considering formation of committee of medical expert for quite a while.” 
 
 The order further reads that whoever wants to give advice/suggestion or opinion to the draft committee should do it in writing.
 
 To ensure that the draft copy of the bill remains flawless, the state has given special powers to the committee for hiring the services of medical and legal experts. 
 
