KOLKATA: The   continued on Monday with   and   crossing swords over a   More than 5 lakh Manthan subscribers in Kolkata remained deprived of more than 45 channels that include Star Jalsha, Star Plus, National Geographic and the Star Sports series. The channels went off Manthan screens on Friday afternoon.

 Even though negotiations were due on Monday, neither Manthan nor Star India reportedly took an initiative. Since no move has yet made been to break the deadlock, subscribers may miss the channels for several more days. “It is unfortunate and though we would like to have the channels back soon, there are certain issues between us. We have already paid 13 months’ subscription for phase III extension of cable network in advance. But the government has deferred the extension till January 31, which means we have paid in excess. If that money is adjusted against our dues, there should be no arrears on our part,” said Sudip Ghosh of Manthan. Star India has claimed an immediate payment of subscription dues from the MSO.
 
 The tussle between the broadcaster and the MSO has left subscribers feeling cheated. With several high-profile sporting events slated this week, the blackout couldn’t have come at a worse time. On January 15, Virat Kohli’s Men in Blue are set to lock horns with England in an ODI series. “This is the first time that Kohli will be leading India in the shorter format of the game and I can’t wait to catch the action. But with the channels blocked on Manthan, I must travel to a friend’s place to watch the matches. This is unfair since I am paying for the channels,” said Rajiv Gupta, a Manthan subscriber in Behala.
 
 This is the fourth blackout on the Manthan network since June, 2016. The phase III extension of cable network was to be completed by December 31, 2015. It was deferred by 13 months. According to Manthan, it was making an effort to reach out to Star India. “We are trying to safeguard the subscribers’ interests. If the broadcaster acts reasonably, the stalemate should end soon,” said a Manthan spokesperson.
 
 
