After a hard day’s work, rickshaw puller   was sleeping outside a photocopy shop on   when the sound of squealing tyres woke him up. This was followed by an ear-splitting crash. Staying a few metres away from the accident site, he was the first one to reach the spot in the wee hours of April 29. It’s the accident that killed model-anchor   and had   at the wheel that fateful night. 

 “It was 3.25 am when I was woken up by the noise that could be heard even from Gariahat; it was that loud. The car, I am certain, was coming at a high speed. Within seconds, the man (Vikram) came out of the car from the other side and dragged a lady out. He made her lie on the middle of the main road and screamed, ‘Sahajyo korun, baba’. I heard him saying, ‘Meri biwi mar gayi’, but things were happening so fast that I can’t confirm his exact words,” he said. The girl, said Kalua, was bleeding from her mouth while there were no bruises or cuts to be seen. “I thought she was dead because something had hit her chest from the impact. The man was bleeding from all over and his shirt was stained. He was crying and asked me to find him a cab,” recalled Kalua. “A local cabbie had stopped as four-five people gathered. We asked the taxi driver if he would take them to the hospital and he agreed,” said Kalua. The rickshaw puller admitted that not a minute was lost in the process. 
 
  
  
 
 
 “The man said, ‘Hum ko Ruby le ke chaliye’ and that’s what the taxi driver did. Once they left, within minutes, the police came. They took my name as an eyewitness, but did not record my statement. In the car, I could see a few phones lying, apart from a wallet and a big handbag. I did not see the man make a single call,” he said. 
 
 Three days after the accident, a few men had come to enquire and they claimed to be from Sonika’s side. “They asked me what had happened that night and I explained it to them. The only thing I am scared of is a police inquiry. I am a poor man and don’t want any harm,” he requested as he agreed to pose for a picture. 
 A sweeper, who refused to be named, also corroborated the facts. “I was on the pavement that night. Suddenly, with a loud noise, a white car rammed into the concrete structure some 20 metres from me. I found the right side (driver’s side) of the vehicle smashed and a man was struggling to come out. I opened the left door and saw a severely injured lady,” he recalled. 
 
 When Vikram asked for a cab, the sweeper and his associates got busy. “The taxi was waiting for a passenger and I convinced him to cancel 
 the booking,” he added. When the sweeper asked Vikram to go to Shishumangal Hospital, he screamed, “Ruby chalo! Ruby chalo,” to the driver. 
 After around an hour, the driver came back and met the sweeper and said that the girl was probably dead and that he was not feeling well. “He was in a state of shock and said he wanted to go home. Since then, I haven’t seen him,” he told us.
 
 
 
 1. Sahajyo korun, baba
 
 2. Meri biwi mar gayi
 
 3. Ruby chalo, Ruby chalo
 
 
 
 1. Vikram Chatterjee’s sedan, which was travelling at a high speed, hit a guard rail ahead of Lake Mall first (now bent owing to the massive impact) and turned around sideways.
 
 2. Even going sideways, the car did not slow down much though the brakes were already engaged. This indicates the car was travelling at high speed. 
 
 3. As it turned, the front of the car hit a jewellery store and the rear, the cemented bottom of a concrete structure in front of it. It is possible that owing to the rotational force, the airbags didn’t engage.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 4. The explosive sound in the end of the impact was that of the car touching down on the ground after a partial rollover that also shook the entire store up.
 
 5. The impact buckled the C pillar of the car towards the inside.
 
 6. When the car finally came to a rest, it was facing towards   — the direction it was initially coming from.
 
 
  
  
 
 
