CHANDIGARH:The   (CAG) has slammed the   for poor implementation of   in the   without any institutional mechanism to redress complaints of aggrieved farmers.

 CAG found 98% farmers in Karnal, Rewari, and Yamunanagar districts were not even aware of these schemes. The insuraces schemes were introduced to insure farmers against natural calamities, pests, and diseases that lead to partial or full failure of crops. During the audit, it also came out that hardly 16% farmers in these three districts were interested in Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY).
 
 The CAG tabled its report in Parliament on July 21 on the five-year performance audit of crop insurance schemes conducted for 2011-2016 in nine states, including Haryana. Other states include Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Odisha and Telangana.
 
 The report has pointed out that while three private crop insurance campanies failed to perform, Haryana government did not initiate any action against them for this. The state reasoned “it was under the impression that it had no powers to do so”. These companies included ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited for weather-based crop insurance scheme (WBCIS) in Rewari district during Rabi in 2012-13, Reliance General Insurance Company Limited in Karnal district for Rabi and Kharif in 2014-15, and Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Company Limited in Rewari district for Rabi and Kharif season in 2014-15.
 
 In Karnal, Yamunanagar and Rewari, four insurance companies - HDFC Ergo General Insurance Company Limited, Future Generali India Insurance Company Limited, Agriculture Insurance Company of India Limited (AIC) and ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited - informed audit that they had released claims of Rs 17.97 lakh pertaining to 2,006 farmers to five banks. “But on enquiry by audit, the banks had stated that they had not received any amount from insurance companies. As a result, the beneficiaries remained deprived of the benefit of claims compensation for no fault of theirs,” reads CAG report.
 
 The CAG observed, “In two blocks of Yamunanagar district, ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited released claims amounting Rs 106.63 lakh in respect of 9,187 beneficiary farmers under WBCIS. However, the banks (PNB, Central Cooperative Bank-Bilaspur, Central Cooperative Bank-Pabni Kaplan) credited only Rs 26.62 lakh to 6,229 farmers leaving Rs 80.01 lakh undisbursed to farmers.”
 
 During the period covered in the audit, Haryana released Rs 84.21 crore to AIC and other private insurance companies, but did not receive utility certificates. The audit report has also pointed out that under the WBCIS, implementing agencies are required to open a separate account for maintaining all transactions under the scheme. “Audit noticed that the private insurance companies in Haryana and Maharashtra did not maintain any such accounts,” reads CAG report.
 
 Introduced in 1985
 
 The central government has introduced several crop insurance schemes since 1985. Comprehensive Crop Insurance Scheme (CCIS) was launched in 1985 and was replaced by National Agriculture Insurance Scheme (NAIS) in 1999. Later, the pilot Weather Based Crop Insurance Scheme (WBCIS) was introduced from Kharif season 2007 in 20 states. Modified National Agriculture Insurance Scheme (MNAIS) was implemented on pilot basis in 50 districts from Rabi season in 2010-11. From Rabi season 2013-14, MNAIS and WBCIS were merged into National Crop Insurance Programme (NCIP). From Kharif season 2016, NAIS and NCIP were replaced by introducing Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY) and re-structured WBCIS.
 
