A 65-year-old woman from   on Saturday underwent a   to get a  , three years after she had undergone a hip replacement operation.

 The patient, Khairunissa Shaikh, had no idea a cheap, faulty implant was used the first time around when she underwent the surgery at a hospital in Mira Road. She spent the last three years writhing in pain, unable to walk. Every time she would approach her surgeon, he would tell her all she needed was physiotherapy. 
 
 Finally, she got in touch with doctors at  , who found the implant had, in fact, broken into pieces.
 
 Dr Pradeep Bhosale, joint replacement surgeon at Nanavati, who operated on Shaikh, said, “The patient had been bedridden, and the X-ray reports showed the implant used during the surgery the first time around had broken into pieces. We operated on her on Saturday and she has started walking again.”
 
 Shaikh said that being able to walk again was a “liberating experience”. “Such was the pain I underwent that I no longer wished to live,” she said.
 
 Sources in the state Food and Drug Administration (FDA) said India was fast becoming a “hub for faulty implants”, and 39 people, all manufacturers and dealers, were booked in the last few weeks for dealing in such equipment. “Patients in need of orthopaedic implants are the biggest targets of unscrupulous dealers. We recently seized faulty implants worth Rs 7 crore,” said Harshadeep Kamble, the state FDA commissioner.
 
  
  
 
 Dr Pradeep Bhosale said Khairunissa Shaikh was fortunate, as revision surgeries often don’t show good results. “It is sad to note that many small nursing homes are using inferior quality implants and patients ultimately suffer. Several manufacturers of medical implants are selling their products without licences, trials, etc and target patients looking for cheap treatment,” he said.
 
 Khairunnisa Shaikh has filed a complaint against the nursing home and the doctor who conducted the surgery the first time around, and the FDA commissioner Kamble said he will also look into the matter. Kamble said his department was in talks with the government to bring out a law to ensure no such faulty products could make their wai into the market.
 
 
 
