PANAJI: If Old Goa was to be conserved through proper planning, it would have helped ‘upscale’ its heritage value on par with the world’s great old cities. Archaeological parks could have been set up in Goa’s former capitals — Chandrapur in Chandor and   in   Velha.
 
  Then there’s Raj Bid, a historic 65-feet-broad paved road used for trade from Gopakapattan to Old Goa. All these and more were part of draft proposals of the Task Force for Regional Plan (RP) 2021. But heritage lovers are crying foul, emphasizing that Goa’s priceless heritage assets haven’t been marked in RP 2021, notified in 2011.
  
  “RP 2021 does not reflect any protection to historical and heritage sites and monuments,” says Prajal Sakhardande, president of Goa heritage action group (GHAG). “It only goes on to prove that historical heritage is least on the government’s priority.”
  
  Land ownership and other factors may be hurdles in pursuing draft recommendations in Chandor and Agasaim, but Old Goa could have been saved. The former capital is considered richer than some other world cities for its multi-layered history covering eras of the   and Adil Shahi dynasties, and over four centuries of Portuguese rule. Outline development plans (ODPs) are also causing havoc with conservation zones in Goa's towns.
  
  Designated a world heritage site by Unesco three decades ago, Old Goa is now tragically reduced to a small cluster of churches and monuments in the core area. Conserving it as a historic site, integrally with its monuments and outlying archaeological sites, should have been the vision for its protection, heritage lovers say.
  
  “The draft RPG had raised hopes as a policy document for the first time, with a vision of mindful development instead of a piece-meal approach to conservation,” said  , a conservation architect. “It had highlighted eco-sensitive zones and graded them 1, 2, 3. An archaeological park in Old Goa and two other sites was also recommended”
  
  But Sakhardande says RP 2021 is bad for Goa’s built and historical heritage to say. “The three parks, Raj Bid, Hatkatro Khambo in Old Goa and other archaeological ruins and sites have been ignored,” he lamented.
  
  The outer fortification wall of Old Goa’s city of yore and the Raj Bid trail span across the Kadamba plateau. It has many other unexplored archaeological sites and parcels of privately-owned forests. “The plateau has been sold to builders, and they are ravaging its historical and natural heritage,” Sakhardande said.
  
  A town and country planning ( ) department official said that Old Goa is a mixed bag with archaeological survey of India and national monuments authority exercising control over the area. “The heritage trail is marked on the plan and setbacks are adhered to,” the official said, but did not comment further.
  
  But sources alleged that the lack of political will is delaying implementation of the Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains (Amendment and Validation) Act, 2010, or enforcement of existing laws, due to a misconception that it may hamper development in Old Goa. As a result, the world heritage site has been marred by unplanned construction.
  
  But heritage conservation is not about restricting development or staying in the past. The draft RP 2021 had provided a vision of a mindful development, building on the past and utilizing all resources prudently, says Mascarenhas. “Old Goa is a world-class special zone, a city with a theme of Rome of the  . The entire area has much more potential of discovery as well as interpretation of the past, which is what is being threatened,” she explained.
  
  The former capital is detached from present development. “The buildings on the Kadamba plateau have no character nor linkage with Old Goa. Vistas with a series of open spaces which can also act as a buffer zone need to be created to visually connect the old fabric with the new,” Dean D’Cruz, architect, said.
