KOLKATA: CMRI Hospital, one of the foremost private hospitals in the city, was on Wednesday a target of mob violence usually witnessed in over-burdened state-run facilities. The death of a local girl sparked unabated attack in which hospital equipment and furniture were destroyed and left patients, their relatives and staff trembling in fear. Despite the widespread damage, the hospital authorities -not for the first time after such a vandalism -did not lodge a police complaint. Instead, the officials went into a shell, refusing to officially talk about the incident. TOI spoke to some doctors, nurses, patients and locals to understand why CMRI became the target.
LOCALITY
 
 The hospital is located in a not-so-affluent belt com prising Metiabruz, Kid derpore and Ekbalpore. Though the state-run   is also nearby, most patients seem to prefer CMRI to it as they apparently believe they have the right to treatment at the nearest hospital, irrespective of it being a state or private facility.“In any other area, poor famili es first approach a state hospital and then a private one. But not here. Often, the expectations are unreasonable and anger spills over when it isn't met,“ an Ekbalpore resident said.
 
 Residents have been demanding free general and ICU beds.Around10 days ago, Kidderpore Local People's Organisation (KLPO) submitted a memoran dum to nearby hospitals, including CMRI, listing the demands. Many believed most had nothing to do with the patient but used the death as an excuse to vent their anger at their demand not being fulfilled.
 
 DEMOGRAPHY
 
 Most patients--a majority of them from lower middle-class families --often come to CMRI when it is reportedly too late, after having first tried out treatment at local nursing homes. Most local doctors are associated with the small nursing homes in the area and refer their patients there first. It is only when the situation gets complicated that families are reportedly told to go to CMRI. In  's case, too, her family admitted her to two nursing homes before finally taking her to CMRI.
 
 Doctors felt the delay could have cost Saika her life as the puncture in her intestine appeared to have spread infection, leading to septicemia and a cardiac arrest.
 
 Among the hospital administration, there is a lurking su spicion that violence was stoked when the family did not wish to clear the dues. “It is not just the patient's family that vandalise the hospital property .They call up local goons, mobilize people and then begin the ransack,“ an official said.
 
 COMMUNICATION
 
 Locals allege the hospital ad ministration, staff and do ctors are rude to patients from the area and view them with suspicion. They claimed while a former CEO would listen to their problems, the new administration was not keen on redressing their grievances.“Discontent over rude behaviour seemed to spill over on Wednesday . I don't know whether the hospital actually called up Saika's father and threatened to dispose of her body or not, but it is not implausible,“ said KLPO general secretary Sheikh Sarfuddin. Once word spread that the hospital was allegedly threatening to dispose of the body instead of explaining the reason for the death, it stoked anger that turned into a mob fury .
 
 Agreeing they should convey a patient's condition to his her relatives, doctors said it was difficult at CMRI for fear of being thrashed. “When critical patients are admitted, they have a 50-50 chance. Blaming all deaths on medical negligence is unfair,“ a doctor said.
 
  leader   said the hospital had to learn to communicate with locals in a humane way . “They have to deal with the local population. There is no alternative,“ he said.
 
