NEW DELHI: IT minister   has convened a meeting of top IT companies next month to dispel the talk about massive job losses in the sector and brainstorm with the CEO’s for the next phase of growth. 

 “The Indian IT ecosystem is very robust and promising,” Prasad told TOI in an interview, adding that it may create over 4 million jobs in the next few years. CEOs from Infosys, Wipro, TCS, HCL and other IT companies are expected to take part in the meeting which is scheduled for the first week of June. 
 
 “Where is this talk coming about job losses? I am a little surprised myself,” he said. “Companies have added jobs,” Prasad said. 
 
 Industry group   has estimated that there will be 2.5-3 million new job by 2025. It said reports about mass layoffs by IT companies were incorrect. “It may even cross 4 million. If I am talking about the promising sector of India’s digital economy there is a basis for this. All this is part of the Digital India economy,” Prasad said.
 
 He cited data from staffing companies which expect hiring to increase in the sector in the current year. “Ultimately technology creates opportunity. Internet and other advancements are only going to create more opportunities. Don’t underestimate the power of innovation,” he said. 
 
 The government has hired McKinsey & Co to prepare a strategy roadmap for digital services in the country as it expects the turnover of digital, communications and IT industry to grow nearly four-fold to $1 trillion by 2022 against $280 billion currently.
 
 A Google-BCG study showed that digital payments industry alone is expected to grow to $500 billion by 2020, contributing 15% of GDP. Asked whether Indian IT companies will be able to scale up their operations, the minister said: “They will do it on their own. I am sure that the innovative spirit of the IT companies will inspire them to look inwards towards India now.” 
 
 The minister said the government will resolve the issue of visas for the IT sector after the clampdown unveiled by the US, Australia and Singapore. “Surely by dialogue we will be able to find a way out,” he said. Jobs are also expected to be added from the government initiative to start back office operations in small towns across the country, the minister said. The government hopes to have around 48,000 seats in these BPOs in towns such as Siliguri, Varanasi, Amravati, Patna and others. The government will provide subsidy of Rs 1 lakh per seat and preference would be given to local entrepreneurs, women and disabled.
 
