NAGPUR: A unique programme was organized to mark the jayanti of Lord Buddha, an apostle of peace, at  , on Wednesday. In a short message, Buddhist monk Bhadant Arya Nagarjun   said that people should do such works on this   of Buddha Pournima that can help them make progress.

 At sharp 5.15am, Sasai began Buddha vandana by offering flowers and lighting a candle and incense sticks before the portraits of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar and Gautam Buddha. A programme of ‘Buddha Pahat’ was organized on the occasion.
 
 Soon, noted musicians like violinist Prabhakar Dhakde, tabla player Sandesh Popatkar and sitar exponent Naseer Khan took to stage. They began with raag Ahir Bhairav and set the mood for the programme that entranced the audience. Dhakde followed it up with a Buddha and Bhim geet on violin, ‘Buddhadeva tuzi dnyanganga’ and ‘Bharatiya ghatne cha tu shilpkar aahe’. People from as places like Wardha, Chandrapur, Godhni and Manewada had come to be part of the programme.
 
 “Usually on this day, people eat sweets or visit Buddha vihars to seek blessings. But blessings can be had in this way too. Also, mornings are calm and peaceful. Listening to classical music at this time is a great way to begin the auspicious day,” said singer Chhaya Wankhede-Gajbhiye, who organized the event, along with husband and journalist Ravi. 
 
 “North Nagpur is usually assumed to be backward,” said Gajbhiye, and added that they started the initiative last year for promotion of classical and light music, and they fund the programme from their savings as one should make some contribution to the society.
 
 Chhaya, who can sing in nine languages, then presented eight songs, a mix of Hindi and   and Bhim songs. She was accompanied by singers Aakanksha Nagarkar Deshmukh and Komal Dhanwate. ‘Vaate yuga yugacha’, ‘Kalokh sampla sampun geli raat’, ‘Mai mohe Gautam pran pyare’, ‘Shilpakar jeevanacha Bhim maza hota re’, ‘Mere rehnuma ae Gautam’ were some of them. 
 
 Mayor Nanda Jichkar, MLA Dr Milind Mane, municipal commissioner Ashwin Mudgal and additional municipal commissioner Ramnath Sonawane were present along with corporators, littérateurs and social workers.
 
 Raju Alone, who attended the programme, said, “I have come all the way from Koradi to listen to Dhakde. I have been listening to him since childhood. Usually you get to hear fine classical music only in halls, but it is commendable that programmes like these are picking up in this area.” 
 
 “Music played on this day has different importance as it comes from within. Conducting this event is no less than an achievement,” said writer Dadakant Dhanvijay.
 
 
