BELAGAVI: The   of the home-alone wife of a senior forest officer here on Wednesday shocked residents of the city.

 Anand B Morappanavar,  ,   ,  , was aghast when he saw the body of his wife Bhargavi, 58, in the hall of their house opposite Ayush Hospital in Dwaraka Nagar, 4th Cross, Mandoli Road. when he came home for lunch.
 
 Her hands and legs had been tied with her dupatta and a piece of cloth was stuffed in her mouth. Police suspect the killers tied her hands and legs and suffocated her to death by pressing a pillow to her face. There were no injury marks on the body. The murder may have been committed between 11.30am and 1pm.
 
 As the killers did not take away any valuables from the house or the victim's jewellery , police suspect that professional   triggered the murder.
 
 According to police sources, Bhargavi went to a hospital in the morning for a blood test. The car driver dropped her home at 11.30am. She entered the house without locking the front door and kept the cooker on the stove. The killers entered the house without any problem as the door was open.
 
 DCP (crime) Amarnath Reddy and his team rushed to the spot with a dog squad and fingerprint experts. Sniffer dogs failed to pick up any clues ­ they took their handle rs to the rear of the house and stopped.
 
 “Four teams headed by senior officers have been formed to trace the murderers,“ Reddy said.
 
 The Morappanavar family is from Garag, Dharwad district and has been staying in the Dwaraka Nagar house for the past 18 years ever since it was built. Two and a half years ago, Morappanavar had been transferred to Belagavi as DCF of the social forestry division. Earlier, he was the DCF in Haveri district. He had also worked as RFO in Belagavi and Gokak.
 
 The couple has two daughters. The older daughter Anushka lives in the US and her sister Krutika got married last month in Bengaluru. After Krutika's marriage, Bhargavi would be alone in the house when Anand went to work, said Vatsala Morappanavar, a relative who stays nearby.
 
