DEHRADUN : In a move expected to give a boost to the fledgling homestay and   in Uttarakhand, the state forest department in collaboration with the Japan International Cooperation Agency(JICA) is going to train a number of villagers and provide them tips on welcoming and taking care of tourists (Dehradun): The training will be imparted to 20 villages near  , 10 villages in Devalsari near Munsiyari and 10 villages around Ranikhet, officials said. The training programme is being conducted as part of the   undertaken by JICA and would be funded by the agency at an estimated cost of Rs 20 crore.

 Anup Malik, chief project director told TOI, “The selection of the villages near an established destination has been done in such a way that it benefits both the destination as well as villagers. The Tehri lake is emerging as a major tourist destination and there are many villages around it which have no roads. So tourists can reach to these villages doing trekking and enjoy the experience of their unique culture. This move will generate livelihood for local people and, the destination will get further promoted.”
 
 Devalsari is another destination which is endowed with bountiful   at low height of 1200 meter. The area has been acknowledged by wildlife experts and biologists to be having astounding varieties of butterflies and birds and, also rare species such as   and, flying squirrel which was spotted sometime ago by divisional forest official.
 
 In Ranikhet , the destination ear marked is Soni Mahadev temple, ancient Shiva temple around which some ten villages have been targeted under the project. Though Ranikhet is well known as a destination, however the tourism has not been able to spread its tentacles to the villages which are slightly far from the Central area. Under the project, the villages around the temple will come to the limelight.
 
 According to Malik, the department would help the shortlisted villagers in renovating a portion of their houses if needed as homestays and, also provide basic training in attending the guests and cooking meal for them.
 
