NAGPUR: Justice Sunil Shukre, a judge with the   of  , made a fervent appeal on Monday to the   to make a new beginning by effectively   so that our next generation was able to enjoy the fruits of nature.

 He was addressing the International   Day function at Vanamati auditorium at Dharampeth. Principal secretary (forests) Vikas Kharge, head of forest force (HoFF) Shree Bhagwan, Maharashtra State Biodiversity Board (MSBB) member-secretary VK Sinha and biodiversity expert Erach Bharucha were present.
 
 Citing Supreme Court rulings that conserving ecology and public health had precedence over revenue, Justice Shukre said it was the duty of every citizen to protect forests and environment. “The concept of biodiversity is so complex and is not just confined to lakes, rivers or trees. It is quite exhaustive and includes all living organisms on the Earth. Biodiversity points towards our future,” said Justice Shukre and stressed the need for sustainable use of bio-resources.
 
 He also referred to a TOI report on Monday about access benefit sharing (ABS), whose non-implementation was causing huge loss of royalty from bio-resource users. “Weaknesses should always be admitted and such news should be taken positively. I feel that the department should start wildlife forensic labs immediately,” he added.
 
 Kharge called for setting up biodiversity management committees (BMCs) in all 28,000 gram panchayats but stated that alone would not help and “we will have to empower these BMCs to protect biodiversity.”
 
 “Without people’s involvement it will be a futile exercise,” Kharge stressed and announced to consolidate participation of key functionaries and creation of SOPs for common man. “We will also ensure that ABS money reaches the grassroots,” he said.
 
 Bhagwan too agreed that without local participation it would be difficult to save biodiversity. This year’s IBD theme is sustainable ecotourism and livelihood. “Unless we link tourism to locals’ livelihood, it will be impossible to save forests and wildlife,” he said and appealed to the people to learn to co-exist with nature.
 
 Bharucha too called for sustainable tourism. He said though concept of ecotourism was changing fast and was driven by tourists’ needs, training people and maintaining regulated tourism could alone help in the long-term.
 
 “Excessive tourism has changed animal behaviour in the parks and this is disturbing and will also pose a threat to humans. We also need to drift away from tiger-centric tourism,” he said.
 
 Earlier, Justice Shukre released coffee table book on Pench in the presence of CCF & field director Rishikesh Ranjan. He also lauded the role of Ranjan’s predecessor MS Reddy.
 
