By 
 

 Imagine the plight of the parents in   when their 14-month-old baby boy swallowed a   five centimetres in diameter with   detached from one of his broken toys, which got lodged in the upper part of his   (trachea), threatening his life.
 
 Over three hours, at least four hospitals that the baby’s parents rushed him to through heavy traffic in a desperate bid to save his life, expressed helplessness citing lack of facilities to extract it.
 
 They finally ended up at   in Bellandur (nine Km away), where a team of doctors took up the challenge to perform an intricately delicate surgery to save the child, much to the relief of the parents.
 
 The surgery was delicate because the doctors had to take care that neither the LED bulb nor the child’s trachea was damaged during the surgical procedure to extract the object. Had either happened, matters could have become complicated, even resulting in the child’s death, Dr Anil Kumar, paediatric surgeon who led the operation at Sakra World Hospital, explained.
 
 The incident occurred last month, when the toddler Chiraag (name changed) was playing with his toys, one of which was broken with the LED bulb coming loose. Typical of children that age, Chiraag swallowed it.
 
 Fortunately, his mother saw it even as her baby started coughing with signs of choking.
 
 They immediately rushed him to the nearest hospital in KR Puram. “An X-Ray revealed the foreign object stuck in his wind pipe. However, neither that hospital nor the next three we rushed to had any facility to extract the foreign object from my child,” Chiraag’s father, who works for a private firm in the city, said.
 
 When the child was wheeled into the emergency ward of Sakra World Hospital, the doctors immediately realised the complications. “We have had several cases of children in the one-to-five age-group choking on peanuts, almonds or such things; but seeing the X-rays we realised there was an LED bulb lodged in the child’s windpipe, in the upper part of the trachea, near the voice box. It was an extremely sensitive case, because if the object had blocked the entire trachea, the baby may have died instantly,” said Dr Kumar. “Also, it involved a sharp object. While removing the bulb, it could cut through the voice box or damage the wind pipe. And most importantly, we had to be cautious that while giving the anaesthesia – which also goes through the same track – the object should not be pushed further inside, which could have complicated the case into a major one.”
 
 The team, comprising of paediatric surgeons Dr Anil Kumar and Dr Ramachandra C, and anaesthesiologist Hirachand Mutagi, successfully extracted the LED bulb, using a procedure called bronchoscopy – primarily using an instrument called bronchoscope, a thin fibre-optic cable which is inserted and lowered through the nose into the trachea. The procedure offered no hurdles, and the object was removed.
 
 “Parents should keep broken toys or small ingestible objects away from children in this age group. We keep getting choking cases, which are life-threatening. But with careful supervision of a child’s play area, it can be prevented,” said Dr Kumar.
 
 Meanwhile, Chiraag is back to eating his normal food, and playing with toys – child-safe ones though.
 
 
