GHAZIABAD: Fifty-nine  , which are located within a 500-metre radius of national or state highways passing through   district, will be shut down from April 1 in accordance with a   The district excise department has provided licences to 30 of these establishments to open shops at alternative locations in the city but has ordered permanent closure of 29 shops.

 The department estimates that the loss stemming from the complete shutdown of 29 shops will be more than Rs 40 crore in the financial year 2017-18. In all, 502 liquor outlets falling under various categories are located in Ghaziabad.
 
 The closure orders were issued by the department on Tuesday and notices were issued to the shops simultaneously. The total number of shops that faced closure owing to the apex court order had been finalised in a meeting held between police and administration officials of Ghaziabad and Meerut on March 22.
 
 The targeted revenue generation of the excise department in this financial year is Rs 890 crore. According to department officials, the 59 shops that have been issued shutdown notices used to generate an approximate revenue of Rs 82 crore in taxes annually.
 
 District excise officer Karunendra Singh told TOI that the alternative locations had been chosen by the shopowners themselves. “Approvals were given to them after they fulfilled all conditions needed to open a liquor outlet within the city. In the entire district, we do not have a single bar or restro-bar that falls within a 500-metre radius of a national or a state  ,” Singh said.
 
 “The apex court order does not contain any direction for bars and restro-bars in particular,” Singh said.
 
 Of the 59 shops that face closure, 35 are located along the NH-24 in between UP Gate and Masuri, seven are located along NH-91 from Chipiyana in Lal Quan till Chhapraula, while 17 are located along SH-57 in between Loni Bus Stand and Mandola. However, none of the shops or outlets along NH-58, from UP Gate till Meerut Road T-point, face closure because this stretch had been denotified by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) in January 2016.
 
 Certain other stretches in Ghaziabad, which earlier used to be part of national or state highways, but are in neither category now following denotifications, will remain unaffected by the order. 
 
 A three-judge bench of the   headed by Chief Justice T S Thakur had issued the order on December 15, 2016, barring all liquor shops from 500 metres of state and national highways of the country. The bench had also ordered removal of all signboards of liquor vends on highways.
 
 In Ghaziabad, there was mixed response from residents on the impact of the closures on occurrence of accidents resulting from drunk driving. Achyut Rao, a resident of Vaishali, said the closure would certainly impact motorcyclists. 
 
 “Truckers might stock up on bottles inside their vehicles once the shops along the highway are closed,” Rao said.
 
 
