HYDERABAD:   has emerged as the hub for   in the  . As many as 22,000 people from   voluntarily disclosed that they have either raised unauthorised structures or purchased them. This information was declared in their applications for the   (BRS) announced by the government last year. 

 After L B Nagar, the highest number of such structures - 15,360 - were disclosed by people in the central zone circle, especially municipal circle 10 that covers areas such as Khairtabad, Panjagutta, Banjara Hills, Ameerpet, Sanjeeva Reddy Nagar and Sanathnagar areas followed by Kukatpally circle where 14,700 people applied for regularization.
 
 The municipal administration and urban development department announced BRS last year to regularise unauthorised constructions, but did not process the applications due to a case in the high court against the scheme. Following the court permission to process applications, the GHMC recently started segregating and processing them after a week-long training of the town planning staff. The high court also asked the civic body to bulldoze structures whose applications are rejected. While eligible applications will be regularised after collection of a penal amount, construction on public places such as parks, play grounds and lake beds are to be rejected.
 
 In circles such as L B Nagar that surround the core city, unauthorised constructions have mushroomed, especially due to the Metro Rail corridor and demand for land. 
 
 Similarly, Serilingampally, Kukatpally, Kapra and Uppal circles have been witnessing steady growth in realty. A couple of days ago, GHMC commissioner reportedly issued a memo to a deputy municipal commissioner of West Zone for not taking measures to prevent an illegal structure in that jurisdiction. 
 
 Forum for Good Governance secretary M Padmanabha Reddy, who filed a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) on BRS, said the state government was not committed to curbing unauthorised structures in the city and instead was looking at it as a source of revenue. "Illegal constructions that have come up before October 28, 2015 are eligible for BRS. But people raised structures even after the cut-off date and applied under BRS. The only solution is shifting of corrupt GHMC and HMDA staff to other places," Padmanabha Reddy said. He said in states like in Bihar, illegal structures on lake beds and public places were taken over by the government and converted into schools. Telangana government should also take such steps, he said.
 
 GHMC chief city planner S Devender Reddy said the government was working towards a permanent solution including prosecution to curbing unauthorised structures. "We have been studying best practices in other states on preventing illegal structures. The GHMC will also demolish structures which are rejected under BRS," he said.
 
 
