SALEM: Chief minister   inaugurated various government projects in Salem, Namakkal,   and   districts through a video conferencing at the Salem collectorate on Tuesday. The chief minister said he was on a drive to launch various projects and schemes announced by the late chief minister J   across the state.

 Palaniswami unveiled a total of 3,971 projects worth Rs330.84 crore across the four districts. “This includes 462 projects worth Rs115.71 crore in Salem district, 1,479 schemes worth Rs61.25crore in Namakkal district, 113 projects worth Rs60.33crore in Dharmapuri district and 1,917 initiatives worth Rs93.55crore in Krishnagiri district,” he said.
 
 The chief minister also distributed various benefits and assistance to 3,368 beneficiaries through 19 government departments.
 
 Addressing the gathering, Palaniswami said he was all set to fulfil the late Jayalalithaa’s promises for the people’s welfare. The chief minister said his government had been working on road widening projects in the Salem region to ease congestion and hinted at a ring road in Salem district to ensure smooth traffic.
 
 “I have taken up the ring road project with union road transport, highways and shipping minister  ,” he said. The chief minister said he had met Prime Minister Narendra Modi in New Delhi and discussed about the drought situation and other issues the state faces.
 
 Highlighting his government’s development initiatives, Palaniswami said, “Work is on to convert the Namakkal-Trichy state highway into a four-lane road. Road widening is also underway for the Namakkal and Tiruchengode ring road project announced by the late Jayalalithaa. Paramathi Velur-Tiruchengode, Tiruchengode-Rasipuram, Mohanur-Namakkal, Namakkal-Tiruchengode and Tiruchengode-Erode roads will also be widened soon. Roads connecting Bhavani in Erode district, Thoppur in Dharmapuri district and Mecheri in Salem district will also be widened.”
 
 State electricity, prohibition and excise minister P Thangamani, social welfare minister V Saroj, higher education minister K P Anbalagan and animal husbandry minister P Balakrishna Reddy were present at the event.
 
