PATNA: Principals of more than two dozen constituent colleges under different universities in Bihar are likely to face ‘premature’ retirement soon despite the recent the Bihar State Universities Amendment Bill, 2017 and the Patna University Amendment Bill, 2017 approved by the state legislature recently. Both the Bills treat college ‘principal’ as a teacher.
 
  It may take about two weeks for the Bills to be signed into law with its publication in the state gazette, but the principals who have already completed 62 years, the age of superannuation of non-teaching staff, are mandated to retire from the service without any further delay. The principals were declared ‘non-teaching’ as per the provisions of Bihar State Universities Amendment Act, 2012 and Patna University Amendment Act, 2012.
  
  It is reliably learnt that the chancellor’s secretariat has already made a move for the retirement of all such principals who have attained the age of 62 or more. Necessary orders to this effect may be issued to the universities soon, said sources.
  
  Some prominent principals who are likely to retire before attaining the age of 65 (the age of superannuation of teachers) include   of   (PU), Babban Singh of College of Commerce, Arts and Science, Patna, Usha Singh of Sri Arvind Mahila College, Patna, Sushila Das of R P M College, Patna City (all under MU), R P C Verma of T N B College, Bhagalpur, Nisha Rai of Marwari College, Bhagalpur, R B Singh of B N College, Bhagalpur (under Tilka Manjhi Bhagalpur University),   of M L S M College, Darbhanga, Shashi Bhushan Singh of D B College, Jaynagar, Jairam Das of U R College, Rosera (L N Mithila University), S P Singh of R D S College, Muzaffarpur, N N Singh of Rameshwar Singh College, Muzaffarpur, and R P Niraj of M J K College, Bettiah (under B R A Bihar University).
  
  Meanwhile, former Bihar Public Service Commission member and   head Shiva Jatan Thakur has reiterated his earlier stand that the inclusion of “principal” in the category of “teacher” in the recent university amendment Bills has flouted the Patna high court order (January 6, 2014) and that of the   (February 27, 2017). The high court has, in its judgment, clearly ruled that “apart from the three cadres of professor, reader and lecturer, other cadres in a university or affiliated institutions are not recognized as teaching posts under the UGC Act and UGC Regulations.”
  
  He asserted that he would challenge the validity of the University Amendment Bills, 2017 in the appropriate forum on the ground that the inclusion of “principal” in the category of teacher is in blatant violation of para 1 of the UGC Regulation, 2010, which defines that “there shall be only three designations in respect of teachers in universities and colleges, namely, assistant professor, associate professor and professor.”
  
  He urged the chancellor to retire all the principals above 62 years within the mandate of university law.
