AURANGABAD: The city police have registered six cases of molestation women, including a  , on Wednesday.

 In the first case,   police have booked a man for allegedly outraging the modesty of a 21-year-old college student on Wednesday. The woman complained that the man had been stalking her for about 15 days and that he had approached her when she was parking her moped in the college parking lot. She further alleged that he threatened to kidnap and rape her if she did not respond to his advances. He also touched her inappropriately and escaped from the place when she raised an alarm. Police said that the man gained entry into the parking lot when he found it deserted and molested the woman. The police have launched a search for the suspect.
 
 Harsul police have registered two offences involving molestation of women under their jurisdiction. In the first case, the police said that the suspect entered the house of a woman during the afternoon hours and caught hold of her hand while she was asleep. She woke up and objected to the way he had entered her house. When he refused to budge, she rushed out towards her land-lady’s room. The man, who followed her, started assaulting her and threatened to kill her if she informed anybody about the incident. But, the woman soon filed a complaint at the nearby police station. 
 
 In another case the Harsul police booked a man for molesting a 20-year-old woman on Wednesday afternoon. Police said that when she was on her way to the police station to file a complaint in an auto-rickshaw, the suspect again waylaid her and assaulted her for daring to lodge a complaint against him. “He has been booked under molestation charges as well as other provisions of the IPC,” the police said.
 
 In the fourth such case in the city,   police have launched a manhunt in search of a person for allegedly harassing a 30-year-old woman by calling her and talking to her in a foul language. The woman said that the caller talked in an obscene manner with an intention to disturb her married life.
 
 The city chowk police have registered two offences involving close relatives, who have accused of outraging the modesty of women. Three people living in   area were booked for outraging the modesty of a 40-year-old relative over construction of a wall. Following another complaint by a 35-year-old woman, the police have booked two persons, including a woman, for allegedly outraging her modesty.
 
