CHENNAI: There's a local saying that rain returns to Chennai only when there is international cricket. It came true on Sunday evening when a light, persistent two-hour drizzle forced a long delay and turned the second half of the first ODI into a T20 contest.

 It meant that the Aussies were left to chase a difficult-but-attainable 164 off 21 overs in the truncated match. But the Indian bowlers were way too good on a pitch that had something to set up a 26-run win (DL method) at the MA Chidambaram Stadium here. The visitors had begun the game on a bright note with pacer Nathan Coulter-Nile (344) running riot till   took over. Pandya's power-packed (83, 66 balls) and a masterclass from MS Dhoni (79, 88 balls) staged a sensational fightback.
 
 Coulter-Nile silenced the Chepauk crowd in a span of 13 balls as India, opting to bat in overcast-conditions, were reduced to 11/3 in no time. The Indians fell prey to the full away-swinging deliveries after they were pushed back with a few quick back-of-a-length balls.
 
 After Ajinkya Rahane had failed, a leaping Glenn Maxwell, at backward point, saw the back of   for a rare duck and No 4 Manish Pandey followed his skipper immediately. A little later, India had their backs to the wall at 87 for five in 21.3 overs.
 
 However, a couple of fielding blemishes cost Australia dear. Debutant Hilton Cartwright failed to hit the stumps with a direct hit from cover and Dhoni was handed a reprieve when on 7. Smith, who had earlier dropped Rohit Sharma (28) at slips, let his team down in the 28th over. He did the right thing by brining Coulter-Nile back, but couldn't hold on to a Pandya edge low to his left with the latter on 13.
 
 A dashing Pandya, who added 118 off 116 balls with an assured Dhoni, shifted the momentum in favour of India in a hitting spree that lasted 17 balls. He smashed 24 runs including three consecutive sixes in the 37th over bowled by leg-spinner Adam Zampa (1/66).
 
 Indian pacers Bhuvneshwar Kumar (1/25) and Jasprit Bumrah (1/20) set the tone with the ball choking the Aussie openers David Warner (25) and Cartwright (1), who was castled by Bumrah. But Pandya gave the knock-out punch. Australia's talismanic skipper Smith (1), who survived a close lbw decision in the fifth over bowled by Pandya, miscued one over fine-leg and was held brilliantly by Bumrah running backwards.
 
 A collapse followed. Only Glenn Maxwell 39 (18 balls, 3x4, 4x6) gave the Aussies hope.
 
