BENGALURU: An 11-year-old boy was recently rushed to a   after his neck got entangled in the jute rope of a swing.Doctors soon realized it wasn't an accident. Bullying in school had pushed the boy into   and he'd attempted suicide.

 “The boy was bullied but was unable to communicate it to his parents. He started avoiding school and the parents could not understand it,“ said Dr Vaijayanthi Subramanian, associate professor and psychiatrist, MS Ramaiah Medical College and Hospital, who treated the boy .
 
  is an early symptom of depression but is not noticed by the family most of the time, said doctors. In 2015, the World Health Organization estimated that 300 million people suffered from depression.About 56 million of them were Indians, accounting for 4.6% of global depression cases.
 
 WHO has made `Depression: Let's Talk' the theme of this year's World Health Day , being observed on Friday , to break the silence around the condition.“The need for mental well-being and suicide prevention is being advocated globally . In India, the national mental health policy provides a backdrop for taking forward the mental health agenda. The recently passed mental health care bill supports decriminalising suicide,“ said Dr Henk Bekedam, WHO representative to India.
 
 Dr Vaijayanthi says more than two thirds of people with depression do not  . “Over 30% of the cases I see every day relate to depression. Social mingling can help  . Among senior citizens, loss of socioeconomic status post retire ment, living away from children and ill health can lead to depression. I wish older people would get tech savvy and get in touch with family via video chat,“ she said.
 
 Stress also triggers depression. “Daily hassles such as commuting in traffic which causes high levels of stress can lead to depression. Monotonous work, unrealistic targets and discrimination in salary structures are other factors that result in depression,“ said Dr Shilpasree S K, psychiatrist at St Martha's Hospital.
 
 Dr Bupendra Chaudhry, consultant psychiatrist, Manipal Hospitals, said long work hours and lack of sleep cause depression. “At times, people resort to alcohol and drugs to relieve themselves,“ he said.
 
 Dr Anitha Chandra, consultant, psychiatry, Aster CMI Hospital, said that if untreated, depression could become chronic and impair a person's ability to handle responsibility. Treatment for depression involves a combination of lifestyle changes, therapy and medication.
 
 
 
 
 Depression is the leading cause of ill health worldwide, according to the World Health Organization. The problem is that it's rarely diagnosed correctly in India and hence, people slip deeper into the morass and are unable to live complete lives. Even in high-income countries, nearly 50% of people with depression do not get treatment, says WHO. India needs to spend more on mental health, and depression in particular, as it is widespread and the symptoms are easy to miss. Failing to act has hidden other costs as depression and related conditions lead to loss of income and productivity. It can also be linked to non-communicable diseases.Depression increases the risk of substance abuse and diseases such as diabetes and heart disease. It's time to speak out and ask for help.
 
