LUCKNOW:   in   are trying every trick in the book — from   — to attract the attention of the leadership towards their leaders, while the number of contenders finally came down to four on Thursday. 

 At Shahjahanpur, supporters of the eight-time MLA Suresh Khanna held ‘yajna’ to bolster his chances of becoming CM, while in Gonda, a supporter of Yogi Adityanath climbed up a mobile tower and refused to come down till the BJP leadership agreed to appoint Yogi as the CM. Police officials were still trying to convince the youth till the time this report was filed.
 
 Supporters Allahabad West MLA Siddharth Nath Singh organised a yajna at Allahabad’s Hanuman temple on Thursday BJP state president Keshav Prasad Maurya’s too continued to organise campaigns on social media to request the party high command to declare him next the CM.
 
 Meanwhile, highly placed sources revealed that Union home minister  , Gorakhpur MP Yogi Adityanath, Keshav Maurya and minister of state for railways Manoj Sinha were the four contenders in the race to become the CM. A final decision might be taken on Friday after nod from Prime Minister Narendra Modi and BJP chief Amit Shah.
 
 With Rajnath reportedly reluctant to become the CM, according to sources, the discussion may be just on the other three names. A senior BJP leader told TOI that since the mandate of 325 MLAs has broken all barriers of caste and religion, the party leadership would not go for appointment of a CM on caste or Hindutva factor. 
 
 On Thursday, social media was abuzz with apprehension that UP BJP chief Keshav Prasad Maurya was now out of race after he fell ill during his meeting with Union minister Uma Bharti and was rushed to Ram Manohar Lohiya Hospital. Later, Maurya tweeted: “By God's grace, I am in good health and out of hospital”.
 
 Lok Sabha 2019 election is the next challenge and party leadership might opt for a face that could promote the progress and development agenda of the party. It may be recalled that Modi had showered praise on Manoj Sinha during his three day visit to Varanasi, if that is any indication of the outcome of discussion over CM choice. 
 
 BJP leadership might take final decision on Friday. Meanwhile, the party is preparing for ‘vijay march’ to celebrate the party’s win in various state assembly polls across the country and at all the party offices in the state on Saturday. 
 
 
