 My husband is having an   with his employee since last one and half year, but he is not admitting it and neither is his girlfriend accepting the fact. The surprising bit is that I have many proofs about their authenticity of this affair, still they do not want to budge. How do I deal with this extra marital affair and how do I get them to accept it? - 
 
 
  
  When you suspect your spouse is cheating, it puts you in a very painful and difficult place, feeling emotionally overwhelmed and not knowing what to believe and trust anymore. Coping with infidelity is really coping with betrayal, and you may be feeling that the world is falling apart. A confession from the   would bring some relief to this ordeal.
  
  Despite all the evidence you may still want a confession as there may be a small voice inside praying that it’s not really happening. However, denying the truth doesn’t make it go away – you may just postpone dealing with it. Knowing is much better than living with uncertainty and suspicions. Thus your willingness to face the truth and confront it, is healthy. Confrontation has two goals - the truth itself and knowing what it means for your relationship. Whether to stay, leave or talk.
  
  Often when confronted by the spouse, if the question comes as a complete surprise, it may prompt a knee-jerk denial – which maybe happening with your husband. Your goal should to engage your partner in a dialogue. Maybe choose a time and a place where there will be no intrusions or distractions and attempt an honest, direct and non-threatening conversation. A straightforward question makes it more difficult to deny and makes them worry about consequences if truth is discovered later. However, this too will not guarantee a confession, and can be extremely frustrating.
  
  But you need to understand that you cannot control the actions of your spouse, only your own. You cannot “make” your spouse confess if they don’t choose it. You can create an atmosphere most conducive to an honest confession, but to admit or no is still their choice. The strength it takes to confront - is more about you than about your partner. You have to look deep inside yourself to make sure you can handle the truth and brace yourself for a variety of reactions.
  
  If after all attempts and a patient but direct approach from you – your partner is still not willing to confess, and has not given you have all the answers you need, take time to reflect on this yourself - what would you want as an outcome from this confession. Marriages make our lives intertwined with the partner – and there is no simple or right outcome to this confrontation. Leave? Walking away would mean not only giving up on the partner but the entire life as you currently know it. Stay? Maybe you just want all of the truth. Talk? Or, maybe you want to open a discussion about your strained relationship. A marriage plagued with suspicions is not a good one, regardless of whether or not an actual affair is taking place.
  
  People resort to mediation by friends or family. This may work if the intermediate is neutral and unbiased; and has the ability to help both the spouses take ownership of their role in the situation. I would recommend seeking professional help instead; couples counseling could help to work on your marriage. This will help both you and your partner understand the status of your relationship. This may give him a safe space to confess too if infidelity is happening.
  
  If your partner is not willing to take that step, rather than becoming an obsessive detective to gather more evidence, I would recommend individual therapy to take a very good look at yourself. Therapy will help you tap into your coping resource to handle the infidelity if cheating is happening. You will be stronger and more capable of handling whatever the future brings. It will give you time and perspective to focus on you as an individual and your marriage as a union. Also as you become more aware, you will become better at recognizing unhealthy patterns in your relationship and/or any co-dependent tendencies. As you change you’ll find your partner will also be forced to change. It can be a surprising revelation to learn how we also have a part to play in the relationship “dance” that is taking place in our marriage. We can change our relationships by learning how to change ourselves.
  
  
 
  
  Want expert advice for your relationship? Send us an email at expertadvice.toi@gmail.com
  
  
  
