Kareena Kapoor, who welcomed son   last December, now switches between two versions of herself in the course of a conversation the familiar, boisterous Bebo and the more guarded and calmer new mum, especially while talking about her Mini Nawab.

  “He gets clicked wherever he goes, even when I’m not with him and all those popping flashbulbs make him blink,” she smiles, admitting that the most photographed B-Town baby is fascinated by the attention.
 
  
  
 Buzz is, she and her actor husband Saif Ali Khan have been approached for their baby to be the face of a new cartoon channel and animated series. The actress dismisses the reports as 'bizarre and absolutely ridiculous'. 
 
 "He’s only six months old. Saif and I have never shied away from being a family that’s open to the public but after a point it gets exhausting, embarrassing even, sometimes," she reasons, taking a good-natured dig at the paps. 
 
 "I’m out of gym-wear now thanks to the photogs outside my yoga studio in Bandra. Saif’s gym look is the greatest. He doesn’t give a damn and is always in his orange shorts — the ones he’s been wearing for the last decade!"
 
 While she made it her mission to make pregnancy cool all of last year with stylish and frequent public outings and has often asserted that marriage and motherhood will not overshadow the actress in her, Kareena has decidedly changed in the last six months. 
 
 She wants to spend more time at home and insists that it won’t be just Saif she will be missing when she’s away on an upcoming shoot. "I don’t like being away from Taimur, I don’t want to miss out on a single moment of his childhood. If I have to go for a shoot, I’ll take him with me sometimes but it’s a tough balance," she sighs.
 
 There’s also a book in the offing, which will document her journey as a mother and actress. "I’m definitely writing a book on motherhood, it’ll be interesting and fun," she promises, admitting that she’s an on-the-go mom. 
 
 "Throughout my pregnancy I’ve shot for brands that would sign me despite my size. I did two shoots, one when I was four months pregnant and the second at seven months and I enjoyed every minute of it. Three months after the delivery, I shot for a brand that didn’t seem to have a problem with a heavier me. It’s been a blessed journey so far."
 
 Today, she meets ' ' co-stars   and  , producer   and director   for her first script reading post-delivery. The film on female bonding kicks off in September in Delhi because "it’s too warm to film in the capital at the moment".
 
 Kareena describes Rhea as a one-of-a-kind Bollywood rockstar. "She stood by the film through thick and thin. Picture this, you have money, a script, time and your heroine calls you up to tell you that she is pregnant. Rhea reworked her script to add the pregnancy angle (which was eventually dropped), even though I told her to just go ahead with an actress 10 years younger. At a time when producers drop an older actress for no particular reason, Rhea, who is a woman of gumption, courage and conviction, told me that the film was all about women and there was no way she was going ahead without me," she marvels.
 
 Her turns in 'Ki and Ka' and 'Udta Punjab' were critically acclaimed but Kareena admits that she’s known as a commercially successful actress who features in big budget films opposite the Khans.
 
  But in 'Veere Di Wedding', the women are the heroes. Kareena, who is, off screen, famous for her tightly-knit girl gang that comprises sister Karisma Kapoor and another sibling duo, Amrita and Malaika Arora, completely identifies with her new film. 
 
 "I’m possessive about my friends and this film reflects that side of me. It’s the story of four girls who attend my wedding and all the dhamaal that it involves. It showcases women and their emotions. It’s the right time to do this kind of a film," she explains.
 
 After she wraps up her portions in 'Veere Di Wedding' in December, she plans to ring in Taimur’s first birthday and take a two-month break before signing new films. "It has to be a fabulous story and worth my time to bring me back to the screen. I am reading everybody’s scripts but I am scared of being away from Taimur. I’m a new mother who wants to work."
 
 Apart from striking a work-life balance, Kareena is also acutely aware of the ‘Begum’ moniker that she was accorded soon after marrying Saif. 
 
 "Most people think they know me because I am a public figure and they see my photographs every day. But I have been able to maintain my sanity and stay grounded for the last 17 years because I take everything with a pinch of salt. I love my life, my family and friends, and I’m very grateful. I let the world think whatever they want. No matter what I do or where I go, I will always smile at the cameras because that’s the best way to live life," she signs off.
 
  
  
 
 
