The moment the arc lights panned on the inimitable  , the crowd at the   erupted. The occasion was the   Season 5 clash which is currently in its Chennai leg. Balaji, who has made a name for himself as a radio jockey, has this year gone on to make a mark in Tamil commentary. That's not all.   is today a much sought-after movie star who is part of numerous projects. In a quick chat with 
 , the 32-year-old shared his memories of kabaddi during childhood, meeting   and more. 

 
 
 When I was young, I wouldn't usually be included in a kabaddi match since I was very thin. I did play the sport a few times but didn't make much of an impact. And after that, my interest in the sport too went down. However, when the opportunity to do commentary for PKL arrived, I chose to dive in. I watched a few matches to understand the format better. I was hooked to PKL and didn't know I would go on to like it so much. After having done commentary in PKL, I feel I know the sport well.
 
 
 
 I think the best thing is that the game gets over quickly (just about 40 minutes) and the format is exciting to watch. Fortunes change hands from one team to another quickly and that keeps everyone on the edge of their seats.   gives you the adrenaline rush. And since I am someone who is always in high spirits, I connect very well with the pace of this sport.
 
 
 
 I watch a lot of kabaddi matches and listened to what other commentators spoke. There are many experts who speak pure kabaddi lingo but I always look to bring the viewers' point. 
 
 
 
 I always look to be myself. I speak in the same manner be it in radio or during a cricket commentary or even in movies. I am getting positive responses from my fans for the same and I am quite thankful to them for that.
 
 
 
 I have been an RJ for 10 years now and it gives you a lot of confidence. There are a set of words which I always use and so I don't need to introduce anything new.
 
 
 
 Just ahead of the Chennai leg of PKL, I got a chance to interact with him. It was a dream-cum-true for me to interact with him and I will not forget that moment in my life. Like all of us, I have grown up watching him play and to speak to him, interact with him was a surreal experience. 
 
