KOCHI:  , a bottled drinking water project promoted by   and Kerala State Women's Development Corporation (KSWDC) has reportedly been tested positive for coliform. 

 As per the tests conducted by a Kochi resident at Regional Analytical Lab at Kakkanad, the water sample collected from the plant at corporation's Edapally zonal office compound, contains coliform at the rate of 14mpn/100ml while the desirable limit is less than 2mpn/100ml. The unit mpn stands for most probable number.
 
 Subsequent to the tests, the analytical lab authorities have recommended super chlorination for minimizing the damages due to the presence of coliform. The person who conducted the test handed over the results to the works standing committee chairman P M Harris and he, in turn, instructed the corporation secretary to inquire about it. "We have already discussed the issue of coliform presence at the meeting of monitoring committee for Kochi Water plant. Earlier, KWA report also pointed out the presence of coliform in the water. The KWA had advised mitigating measures. In the wake of the report, we would be looking in to the issue seriously and taking stringent action," said V K Minimol, chairperson for health standing committee.
 
 It was a year ago that the plant at Edapally started functioning. But the official inauguration of the plant has not been held so far due to protests by those including division councilor against what they see as the exaggerated cost of constructing the plant and introduction of a middleman to run the plant. Kochi corporation allotted Rs 25 lakh from its plan fund to KSWDC for constructing the plant. Then,   was entrusted with the construction and running of the plant. " It was due to dispute over the exaggerated cost of construction and other anomalies that the formal inauguration of the plant was delayed. We will be taking up all the issues at the meeting of monitoring committee for  ," said Joseph Alex, councilor from Mamangalam, the division where plant locates.
 
 Meanwhile, officials with Dharana Infrastructure Private Ltd denied the charges of presence of coliform. "We conduct sample tests every fortnight," an official with the firm said. On whether they conduct the test at government or private lab, he said, "We do the test at a private lab. It would take a lot of procedures if we get the tests done at government lab." 
 
 Works standing committee chairman P M Harris said that an inquiry is required for clearing the doubts in this regard. "We had visited the venue of filling the water. It can't be termed as a plant. It is just a machine a little bigger than the ones of normally installed in apartments for purifying water. So, the allegations regarding exorbitant cost of constructing, introduction of a separate agency for running the plant and water contamination should be looked in to," Harris said. "We should clear the doubts recommending similar purifiers in other locations," he said.
 
 Meanwhile, Kudumbashree members who are in to the marketing of Kochi Water have received recovery notice from the bank from where they took a loan of Rs 10 lakh. "The loan has been taken for purchasing vehicles and arranging other facilities for the distribution of 20 litre drinking water bottles. As of now, the Kudumbashree members would get Rs 10 on 20 litre bottle priced at Rs 20. The Kudumbashree members find it difficult to meet the expenses from their share," said Anitha Jyothi, chairperson, Community Development Society.
 
 Interestingly, Kochi corporation hasn't given its account number to the private firm for remitting the profit share. "We had requested many a time in the past one year. But, the local body officials didn't provide us the account number. We are ready to remit the amount to their account once we get the number," an official with Dharana Infrastructure Private Ltd said.
 
 Coliforms are a broad class of bacteria found in our environment, including the foeces of man and other warm-blooded animals. The presence of coliform bacteria in drinking water may indicate a possible presence of harmful, disease-causing organisms. When coliforms have been detected, repairs or modifications of the water system may be required. Boiling the water is advised until disinfection and retesting can confirm that contamination has been eliminated 
 
