Chennai definitely had a musical weekend with two back-to-back concerts on Saturday and Sunday evenings in the city. The concerts sure put the city on the global music map for it saw ensembles from two of the world’s best institutions known for their rich musical traditions — the   and the   — perform. They performed in Chennai as part of their India tour. We caught up with three men behind the show — Robert Mealy (Juilliard School), David Hill (Yale University) and Grammy award-winning choir director Kevin Fox (from Classical Movements which organised this India tour). Excerpts... 

 
 
 Robert: For both Juilliard School and the Yale University, this was the first visit to India. Every two years, both the institutions plan an international tour. This year we decided to tour India. One of the main reasons for deciding on this tour was that the Indian sitar player who joined us for the   was a resident scholar at the Yale University, last year. So, with him around there, it was easy to conceptualise the concerts. Apart from Chennai, we also performed in Delhi and Mumbai. In Chennai, the concert wasn’t a full-on western classical one. We also performed a piece by composer Reena Esmail. This composition saw a collaboration of Baroque orchestra, choir and Indian instruments.
 David: Reena Esmail’s work, This Love Between Us: Prayers For Unity, is an attempt to unify different religions, cultures and languages. She being an Indian American, the seven movements in the composition celebrate seven different religions in India. It was easy for the people to connect with the music. 
 
 
 
 Kevin: I find more similarities than differences between Indian and western music. I have been in India for the last two months, doing workshops and arranging things for the concerts in India. During this time, I would have listened to all different kinds of music in India from Indian classical music to Bollywood and Punjabi dance music. Every time I stepped into a taxi, I would tell the driver to turn up the Indian music playing from his car stereo. 
 Robert: The extraordinary sense of improvisation of both melodic and rhythmic pattern is something that I find inspiring in Indian music. That’s something which is unfamiliar to us, because we tend to stick to the music which is already written. Also, in Chennai, we had a chance to visit one of the big Hindu temples in the neighbourhood. The chants that they use in the temple are fascinating. We also saw a procession walk down the road, while music was being played. The music which they played using that traditional double reed instrument sounded great.
 
 
 
 Kevin: The university was renamed after Elihu Yale, who was the president of the East India Company settlement at the Fort St. George, Madras. In fact, he got married at the St. Mary’s Church within the fort, in 1680. So, we thought it was important that they performed in Chennai during the India tour. On Sunday, they even sang at the church during the service. 
 
 
  
 David: The choir with which we collaborated on Sunday, the Madras Musical Association (MMA) choir, sounded very western, though the members are all Indians. We could sing only one piece with them — And the Glory from Handel’s Messiah. I would have been very happy to have done the whole Messiah with them. 
 Kevin: Apart from the Juilliard School music ensemble, The Madras Youth Choir was also featured in the concert on Saturday. Though they perform Indian music, the choir is structured just like western choirs. And that’s really something unique with them. Also, the first time I met the MMA choir, I was amazed with the kind of the dedication they have in promoting western classical music. The choirs that generally do   tend to have a lot of westerners, but MMA is one big choir and has all Indians 
 in it.
 
