BHOPAL: Madhya Pradesh, which recorded 33 tiger deaths in 2016, lost yet another big cat this month. A five-month-old tiger cub was killed in the buffer zone of   (BTR) in Umaria district on Thursday morning.

 This cub was impaled by a domestic buffalo while the mother tigress was apparently training them in the arts of hunting, BTR’s field director Mrudul Pathak told TOI. The incident took place near Manpur village – located in BTR’s buffer zone area at around 7 am.
 
 “Buffalo gored the cub with its horn and tossed the cub in the air. Cub died much before the forest officials arrived,” said a forest officer. 
 
 The buffalo too was chased and killed by the tigress in the next few minutes.
 
 “Tigress stayed near its cub for a few hours and then moved on with the remaining two,” officer added.
 
 According to   (WII) Dehradun there are 83 tigers in BTR. Sources say the actual count of tigers incident the park is 112 including the cubs (cubs are not included in census). Earlier a tigress was killed due to electrocution on last Thursday night. Breeding tigress - coded T1 - was found dead near Sarvahi village - in state's Shahdol district. Spot is close to Banas River and Sanjay Gandhi national park, around 120 km from district headquarters. Including T1, the 2017-death toll of tigers in India has reached eight. 
 
 "Initially it seems that the T1 had crossed over into a human habitation. Electrocution cannot be ruled out," said RP Singh, chief of STF (wildlife). "Death must have occurred three days ago. We are now worried for its three cubs. Searches are on," said Singh. Sources say the tigress had deep wounds on eyes and burns on the tail and information about the carcass was received late on Thursday. The official said the body of the tigress was found in the revenue area near Banas River and Sarwahi village.
 
 Declared a Tiger state in 1995, Madhya Pradesh has now achieved a dubious distinction of having the highest number of tiger deaths in 2016 -- 33, including the one mowed down by a train in Hoshangabad on December 29. Of the 95 tiger deaths last year, 31% were recorded from this state alone. Tigers are either getting killed in war of territorial supremacy or moving more than 200 km from their place of birth and meeting unnatural deaths, officials say.
 
 We are eventually going to kill them all. Why not just capture or kill all that you have left in the wild and be done with it? The human race doesn''t care about tigers, or any other species. 
 
