What changes us always makes for compelling storytelling. It can be just one dramatic moment, as was explained by renowned Lebanese-American scholar Nassim Nicholas Taleb in his book, The Black Swan: The Impact of the Highly Improbable. The author coined the term ‘black swan’ (see box) which tells us how a single moment — even if it seems random at that time — has the power to change our entire lives.

 Many of us come across life-altering moments that persuade us to re-examine our priorities, and the path we pursue. But more often than not, our lives are changed not by just one spectacular moment, but a more mundane procession of moments. Often, our goals, dreams and ambitions change gradually till we reach a stage where there is complete clarity about who we want to be and what we want to do. That moment came on the first day of my school. As I was about to enter school, I saw a young boy polishing shoes along with his father. Hardly aware of the bitter realities, I asked my teacher why this boy wasn’t in the classroom. He casually answered: “It has always been like this”. I found it difficult to accept it. One day, I asked the boy’s father why his son wasn’t in school. He looked at his son and mournfully pointed out that he was destined to polish shoes.
 
 I was six years old then. In many ways, the encounter sowed the seeds that would eventually determine the course of my life. Along with a few friends, we started organising football tournaments to raise money for poor children, launched a drive to open libraries for them. I found out that there’s tremendous comfort in the  .
 
 Of course, I wasn’t old or angry enough to revolt against injustice. Yet, poor children working in shops, bus stands, railway stations, and in markets, continued to trouble me.
 
 But my life continued its middle class path towards education and a secure job. I got married. Perhaps, it would’ve continued down the same middle class anonymity and security, except that I was revolted by the collective apathy around me. By then, I had read a lot and come across harrowing tales of families working as bonded labour in brick kilns, stone quarries and factories. It was all these moments of despair, and an increasing urge to do something concrete, that culminated in me abandoning my cushioned existence and become a ‘child rights activist’.
 
 Our futures are determined by the choices we make. Children are the essence of our civilisation. If we don’t treat them well, then it is a rotten world we are leaving behind. In my own small way, I have spent close to 40 years trying to stem the rot.
 
 
 
 The underlying idea of the ‘black swan’ theory is that rare and unpredictable events have a deep and lasting impact on a person’s life. Scholar Nassim Taleb treats uncertainty and randomness as a single idea, and says that as human beings we tend to find simplistic explanations to events that may seem random, without realising their extreme impact.
 
 
