KOCHI: The city continues to be in the grip of viral  , and hospitals in both government and private sector are finding it difficult to accommodate patients. 

 Beds are not available in most hospitals, as they get 30-35% more patients beyond their capacity. 
 
  Dr N K Kuttappan said the facilities at   were insufficient to meet the heavy rush. He said there was no sufficient staff to handle the current scenario.
 
 On Monday, 1,690 patients took treatment from the outpatient wing and 46 patients were admitted to various government hospitals in Ernakulam. While 11 patients are confirmed to be suffering from dengue, there are seven suspected cases. 
 
 “Three H1N1 positive cases have also been reported,” he said.
 
 Hospitals point out that vector-borne diseases have increased this monsoon compared to the previous year.
 
 Lisie Hospital said that they experience an influx of patients due to the outbreak of fever. On Monday, around 100 patients visited the hospital with fever-related sickness.
 
 “Out of them, 20 are inpatients and 80 are outpatients,” said Lisie Hospital spokesperson. 
 
 The hospital said that their inpatient ward was completely filled. He said that since the number of inpatients exceeds their capacity they were forced to refer them to other hospitals.
 
 Elsy Joseph, a resident of Mayiladum Kunnu, said that she had visited a local hospital and took treatment before heading to a city hospital. 
 
 “Though I was admitted, I had to wait till another patient was discharged to get a bed,” she said.
 
 Dr Maria Verghese, superintendent of Medical Trust Hospital, too shared similar views. “We have a tough time as most patients who come with fever have to be admitted. Sometimes it is difficult to find bed for all,” she said. 
 
 During the past one week, 50-60 dengue cases have been reported at the hospital. 
 
 “Forty percent of cases coming to emergency ward have fever-related complications. A good number of our patients are referral cases and they come with investigation reports. They have to be admitted,” added Dr Verghese. 
 
 Renai Medicity, another major hospital in the city, said the number of patients getting admitted with viral fever and dengue was high. 
 
 As the number of patients exceeds the hospital’s capacity for admission, they advise patients whose illness has subsided to return home and continue the medicines. 
 
 “We tell them to consult the doctor in case they experience uneasiness,” said a spokesperson. 
 
 Lourdes Hospital said it takes at least a day to complete the diagnosis. 
 
 According to the hospital spokesperson, some fever cases would have turned into pneumonia and could be confirmed only after hospitalisation. 
 
 “Unfortunately, dengue cases mostly go unreported. This needs to be tested at the initial stage,” added the spokesperson.
 
