GHAZIABAD: Construction work on a flyover project planned by the   at the Vasundhara traffic signal on   in Indirapuram is yet to begin, more than seven months after its foundation stone was laid.

 Commuters, meanwhile, continue to put up with daily traffic jams and the risk of accidents at the busy junction in the absence of a flyover. Last week, the GDA asked the state public works department to grant an NOC for construction work on the project at the earliest.
 
 The foundation stone for the project had been laid by former GDA vice-chairman Vijay Yadav in October last year. The Link Road stretch, which was earlier a part of NH-58, was de-notified by the NHAI in January 2016.
 
 The board of the GDA had approved a sum of Rs 50 crore, to be made available from the Infrastructure Development Fund, for the project in a meeting in October 2015.
 
 The GDA had appointed the UP State Bridge Corporation as the nodal agency to prepare a DPR for the project and a plan for its execution. GDA chief engineer, SC Dwivedi, told TOI, “The bridge corporation has submitted a set of drawings and designs to the GDA which have already been vetted by IIT-Roorkee. Earlier, we had applied for clearance for the project from the NHAI which owned the stretch of road. But now the ownership of the stretch is with the  .”
 
 The GDA has written to the principal secretary of the department seeking an NOC at the earliest, given the messy traffic situation at the location. “The NOC is expected within a few days,” Dwivedi said.
 
 According to officials, the bridge corporation is also working out a utility and traffic diversion plan for the project. This plan, which will be worked out in tandem with various departments, will include afforestation of trees that could be uprooted for the project, shifting of electricity and telephone cables that fall along the alignment of the project and a diversion plan for traffic movement during the construction phase.
 
 The flyover project was conceived by the GDA in 2015 on the basis of reports on traffic volume on the road compiled by Central Road Research Institute. 
 
 The board of the GDA had given its in-principle approval for the project in a meeting that was chaired by the then principal secretary (housing), Sadakant, in October 2015.
 
 At present, the Vasundhara traffic signal witnesses major snarls during peak hours resulting in tailbacking of vehicles that often stretch for several kilometres on the Link Road, thereby causing huge inconvenience to commuters on the stretch. 
 
 Officials said the total cost of the project is subject to change depending on the final report submitted by the bridge corporation.
 
 
