PATIALA: It was just like any other morning at New Moti Bagh Palace here but with early trends pouring in, Congress supporters and workers started to assemble in the sprawling lawns of Captain Amarinder Singh’s private residence. By noon the mood was jubilant and celebrations were already knocking at the door of the palace. With Amarinder’s birthday, he turned 75, coinciding with the result day, it gave an added incentive for the merriment.

 Enthusiastic supporters drove into the palace in swanky cars and stepped out with dry colours in their hands to play Holi. As the signs of Congress victory became more vivid, the palace started getting more crowded, with people spilling over on to the lawns.
 
 By 1.30 pm, Nirmal Singh Shutrana, along with his supporters, walked in after his win. He was followed by Rajpura MLA Hardial Singh Kamboj, who retained his seat with a huge margin. Sadhu Singh Dharamsot was next to arrive after he won the Nabha assembly seat. Later, Brahm Mohindra also reached the palace after his win was announced by the election staff.
 
 The crowd turned hysterical with Amarinder’s wife Preneet Kaur reaching the palace after a short tour of the constituency. By that time, Amarinder had been announced a winner and Congress was leading at more than 65 seats. Soon, teams of police officials arrived there and the roads leading to the palace were barricaded, restricting the entry to the residence.
 
 As Amarinder reached here around 5pm, the crowds had swollen to thousands. He straight away went inside and met some mediapersons waiting in the library. He also exchanged greetings with the newly-elected MLAs, who were present there. A number of senior officials of the district and police administration also reached the palace by 3 pm to greet him, who kept them waiting till 8 pm.
 
 Later, close confidants of Amarinder and his family celebrated the ‘big win’ away from public glare. Preneet said, “It is a great day for Amarinder, his family and the entire state.”
 
 
