CHENNAI: Traffic came to a standstill on   on Thursday morning after thick slurry used for   squirted out on the  .

 Metro rail officials, who inspected the site, denied that the road had caved in and said the foam had overflowed through a hole drilled to install a marker that monitors soil condition. Workers later dug up the road near the median to check if there was any cavity under the surface. The work disrupted   up to 2 km from the spot. Although metro rail officials immediately barricaded the area, traffic had taken a hit by then.
 
 A senior police officer said, “Traffic resumed on the particular stretch within a hour. But vehicles piled up on the stretch made it very difficult for the police to regulate traffic. The onward traffic from Parry's to Tambaram was diverted from  .“
 
 Metro rail has been constructing two tunnels near Thousand Lights that will connect May Day Park to DMS.The line is expected to be ready by mid-2018.
 
 Metro rail has been boring tunnels at a depth of 22m between May Day Park and DMS. On Thursday morning, foam began to overflow on to Anna Salai near Thousand Lights around 9.30 am causing an alarm among motorists stuck in the peak hour traffic. The foam is injected by the boring machine to soften the earth before excavating to build tunnels. A team of metro rail officials rushed to the spot and began an inspection.
 
 A senior metro rail official, who inspected the site, said the foam leaked out on to the road through a tiny hole metro rail workers had drilled to install surface settlement marker. The marker is an equipment to monitor the settlement or heaving of the ground surface.
 
 “We immediately dug up the surface to check if there is any cavity under the surface so that we can fill them up. We later closed the pit we dug up as there were no holes underneath,“ the official said.
 
 As and when the soil is excavated and tunnels are built, a marker, like a pole, is installed on the surface of the road to manually measure the surface level. Readings are taken to ensure that the soil is intact and there is no cavity under the surface.
 
  inspected the site and found its sewerage and water lines were not affected.
 
 Meanwhile, motorists got alarmed as news spread that a part of the road had 'caved in' during tunnel boring. Traffic piled up on either side of the road for more than 2 km.
 
 Though workers sealed the pit they had dug up by evening, traffic continued to move at a snail's pace from Anna Road head post office till the Anna Flyover. Traffic policemen diverted and regulated the traffic flow.
 
