Aurangabad: The city on Sunday witnessed a sudden rise in day temperatures, forcing most citizens to stay indoors. Tourists who had stepped out for a weekend retreat had to bear the brunt of the sun.

 Physicians, paediatricians and dermatologists suggested people take precautions to keep health issues at bay.
 
 Physician and critical care specialist Anant Kulkarni said that this is a time when incidents of viral fever and other infections rise.
 
 Kulkarni said, 30 to 35 degree celsius is the optimal breeding temperature for viruses as it is neither too hot nor too cold.
 
 The best remedy is to avoid overexposure and have freshly prepared home food instead of outside food, he said.
 
 Samata Saoji, consulting paediatrician of Saoji Hospital confirmed that this weather attracts infections. These are different from the infections that thrive during rainy season.
 
 Heat-related infections are common due to the October heat, Saoji said. She suggested that if children are suffering from viral fever and other such infections, the parents should avoid sending them to school to prevent the infection from spreading.
 
 In case of fever, doctors suggested taking paracetamol. If the fever does not subside even after that, a doctor should be consulted.
 
 Samata Saoji said that if the child suffers from dehydration or diarrhea, they should be given oral rehydration solution (ORS). One can prepare rehydration solution at home using sugar, salt and boiled water. The solution helps in keeping the body hydrated, she added.
 
 Doctors advise that if one has to go out in the sun, they must use a scarf, umbrella and goggles to prevent direct exposure to the sun. Changing temperatures tend to confuse people. They are unprepared for the intense sunlight. This leads to increase in fever and dehydration incidents, Kulkarni said.
 
 Dermatologist Reena Jain suggests that staying too long in sunlight can cause Melasma, a common skin condition in women. It causes dark patches on the face. She suggests using sunscreen while indoors and a 3-4 hourly sunscreen application while outdoors. Melasma makes up about 80% of all skin conditions among women.
 
 Sunrays can cause thickened or leathery skin, skin burns and even skin cancer, Jain said. She suggests consumption of food rich in antioxidants such as pomegranate and berries. She also advises eating food rich in beta carotene like carrots and other suitable supplements to avoid aging and wrinkling.
 
 
