The last two phases in UP are gearing up to vote in what has been a bitterly fought 7-phase Assembly elections. Polling started in west UP almost three weeks ago. Although bound by politics and administration, east and west UP are vastly different in history and culture. But the biggest difference is of economic development.

 The per person income (domestic product) of west UP is a stunning 76 % higher than that of east UP. Urbanisation is almost three times, number of factories are seven times more, 20% more land is irrigated, every hectare of land yields 24% more food grains, 48% more potatoes and 76% more oilseeds, and power consumption per person is more than double in the west compared to east.
 
 The UP government defines west UP as 28 districts from Saharanpur to AuraiyaEtawah and east UP as 30 districts from Bahraich in the north-west to Sonabhadra in the southeast corner. Population sizes are not too different and literacy rates are similar. But here the similarity ends.
 
 The most striking difference between the two regions is in industrialisation. There are nearly 13 registered working factories per one lakh population in the west com pared to just about 2 in the east. As a result, the number of industrial employees per lakh population is 812 per lakh population in west, not a very high figure but over eight times the figure for east.
 
 A key difference is of land holding size. For every rural resident in west UP, 0.12 hectares of land is sown for cultivation. In east UP this measure plummets to just 0.08 hectares per rural person. This means that agriculture in east UP bears the burden of one and a half times more people than in west UP. Over 86% of land in east UP is cultivated by small and marginal farmers with less than a hectare of land, compared to 74% in the west.
 
 “Feudal stranglehold survived in east UP till very late and its remnants are entrenched even today,“ says DM Diwakar, a Patna-based academic who has extensively researched east-west UP differences. “In the west land relations were different and hence development has been different.“
 
 Diwakar also stresses that west UP saw the Green Revolution which boosted production and further changed the agrarian structure while east UP continued to grind under traditional cultivation and landlordism.
 
 Huge investment in agriculture spurred industrial growth and urbanisation in the west but the east remained frozen, he said.
 
 “If effective land reforms had been implemented, east UP would have changed,“ Diwakar asserted.
 
 This chasm reflects in political and electoral processes too. The more homogenous east UP has flipped through the three big political parties -SP, BSP and   -in the last three elections showing a deep urge to change things.
 
 West UP has become an intense battleground with SP and BSP sharing the spoils in previous Assembly elections and BJP sweeping the   elections, as it did elsewhere in the state.
 
