It was around mid-February this year that Prasad Dalithan, a freelance film editor from Palakkad, noticed birds in his neighbourhood hovering around water sources and also appearing too tired to fly. 

 As he was contemplating on ways to help the feathered friends, he noticed his buddy and neighbour Ramachandran putting out vessels of water for the birds to drink from. Inspired by the kind act, Prasad decided to follow his example but also wanted more people to do the same. Instead of telling people randomly, Prasad decided to use social media to spread the word. In order to kindle curiosity and make the concept more attractive, he came up with an online challenge, asking people to feed birds in the neighbourhood. “All you’ve to do is to keep some food and water for the birds and post a picture of it in your social media page, asking your friends to take up the challenge and do the same,” he says. He says that to his surprise, not only did people laud the move many also came forward to spread the challenge.
 
 “I hung a few vessels and containers in the trees around my house filled with water and food. In no time, the vessels were empty and squeaky clean. From then on, I started keeping food three times a day,” says Prasad. It’s the ‘My Tree Challenge’, that was a hit on social media a few years ago, that inspired him to spread this cause through the online platforms. Here’s how some of them accepted the challenge and did their bit. 
 
 
 
 Tinu Job, a banker from Kollam who has taken up the challenge, says, “It’s been only a few days since I started feeding birds, by putting some bird feed in the balcony of my flat. Now, the birds have made it a habit to visit me regularly in the afternoons. All I share is the food grains at home and also the leftovers of dishes that I eat, like puttu, bread, dosa and the like.I just break them into small crumbs, that’s all.”
 
 According to Prasad, the birds do not leave the containers dirty ever. “The containers of food and water that I put out are always left clean and dry. Sometimes when there is excess water, a few birds also ensure that they take a quick shower to relieve themselves from the heat. You wouldn’t see them wasting a drop of water,” he says. Just like Tinu, Prasad too leaves a share of home-made food for birds to feed on. “I generally keep small pieces of idly or rice, and they finish it off in no time,” he says.
 
 It’s after watching a tired bird struck with heat stroke in his courtyard that Rahul P S, a businessman from Kottayam, decided to take up the challenge. He says, “I tried to approach the bird to take it to a vet, but then it panicked. To prevent dehydration in the birds, I began placing concrete water bowls on my compound walls and under trees. An ornithologist I know also told me that most small birds need to be hydrated twice a day. So I ensure that there is enough water in the mornings and evenings.”
 
 
 
 Often, the water kept out for birds are shared by other drought-hit animals too. Tinu says, “Initially, it was only sparrows and crows that came for my buffet. But now, squirrels have also started visiting and I have a feeling that at night, bats too take their share!”
 Rahul says that sometimes, he has also spotted street dogs and other animals drinking from the bowls, which shows that the summer is harsh not just on birds, but on other animals too. “Above all, it’s a pleasant sight to see birds and animals making a visit to your compound. Moreover, it is the most humane thing one can do to your fellow beings in summer.”
 
 
 
 Birds need water more than food. Keep plain water in shallow earthen containers so that the water remains cool for them to drink and even splash around.
 Keep red rice grains, corn and millets alongside.
 Fruits like banana, guava, grapes and papaya are also much loved by birds.
 It’s best to keep unprocessed food as birds prefer raw food.
 — Vishnudas C K, Ornithologist
 
 
 
