RANCHI: Braving the intense heat, thousands of tribal men and women from Gumla and Latehar gathered outside the Raj Bhawan on Wednesday demanding the withdrawal of a 1992   state government notification, later extended till 2022, that had earmarked about 1,471 sq km in   for   by the army.

 Amidst cries of “jaan denge, zameen nahi denge (we will give up our lives but not part with our land)”, the tribals, gathered under the banner of the   (KJSS), stressed they would oppose all attempts by the state government to divert tribal land for industrial and other development purposes. “Development cannot happen by merely dislodging tribals from their ancestral land,” they shouted.
 
 The immediate provocation for the “uprising” that even brought JVMP chief Babulal Marandi and   leader   on one platform, was an FIR filed by the police on March 23 against activists of the KJSS for participating in a protest rally at Mahuadanr in Latehar district against the firing range.
 
 “Each year on March 23 and 24, a protest rally is held at Mahuadanr as part of an annual ritual to demand the withdrawal of notification that gives the nod for firing practice on 1,471 sq km of land. About 245 villages come under this area. 
 
 “Unlike other years when thousands of villagers gathered at Mahuadanr, this year we were taken by surprise when the Mahuadanr police lodged an FIR against those participating in the rally. This FIR has made us suspicious about the intentions of the state government,” said  , former member, State Women’s Commission and adviser of KJSS.
 
 In the past 16 years, under successive BJP governments, the police had fired at least 16 times on tribals who were agitating against land acquisition for development projects, Kiro alleged.
 
 Two state notifications dated November 25, 199, and March 25, 1992, under section 9(1) of the Manoeuvres Field Firing and Artillery Practices Act, 1938, notified an area of 1471 sq km for periodical field firing and artillery practice for 10 years. Separate notifications in 1992 and again in 2002, extended the field firing and artillery practice till 2022.
 
 However, beginning 1994, the tribals, fearing they might be displaced from their ancestral land and property, grouped under the banner of KJSS to launch widespread protests, even going to the extent of thwarting attempts by the army to conduct field firing practice in the region. In 2004, the then defence minister had announced that given the hostility of the local population, the ministry was putting off all future artillery and field firing practices at Netarhat.
 
