Order comes after years of efforts by Dr M S Kamath, secretary, Consumer Guidance Society of India, and his wife Archana Kamath, who had booked two cars in 1995.

 Heads of the now defunct car manufacturer   have been sentenced to   for ignoring a   passed 18 years ago to   of two of its car purchasers.
 
 And the delay in following the order may cost PAL—Peugeot directors Maitreya Doshi and Arvind Doshi over Rs 250 crore. An estimated 40,000 customers, who had put down Rs 25,000 each in booking amounts in 1995 for the company’s then newly launched sedan, may now use the consumer forum order as a precedent and seek compensation.
 
 The order passed by the Thane District Consumer Forum on Thursday comes after years of relentless efforts by Dr M S Kamath, secretary, Consumer Guidance Society of India, and his wife Archana Kamath, who had booked two Peugeot 309s but did not get the delivery.
 
 Premier Ltd. that manufactured the oldschool Premier Padmini, teamed up with French company Peugeot to manufacture PAL--Peugeot 309 in India. Thousands of people booked the car in 1995 paying a deposit of Rs 25,000 each. But due to labour problems and poor dealer network, only a limited number of cars hit the road, leaving rest of the customers high and dry.
 
 On June 27, 1998 the Kamaths approached the consumer forum which passed an order in their favour on November 24 the same year, directing the company to refund the amount along with 9% interest within two months, failing which 18 per cent interest would be applicable.
 
 The company did not appeal against the order and the original order, hence, became final. Peugeot pulled out of the venture in 2001 and by 2005 the company went into liquidation.
 
 Though PAL--Peugeot refunded the Kamaths’ deposit in 2011in an out-of-court settlement, the couple continued the fight because they felt the company had not followed the consumer court’s directions to refund the booking amounts within two months of its 1998 order.
 
 The Kamaths argued that under section 27 of the Consumer Protection Act, a person can be sentenced or fined for not following a consumer forum’s order.
 
 Speaking to Mumbai Mirror on Friday, Dr Kamath said the latest order passed by the Thane Consumer District Forum can now be cited as a precedent by the other customers like him to get their money back with interest. “There are a lot of people who still haven’t been paid. It is easy to bow out after being paid your part. However, everyone deserves justice. We too were paid only after we filed this application,” said Dr Kamath. “We estimate that nearly 40,000 people are owed refunds with interest, and the total figure will be about Rs 250 crore.”
 
 The directors’ argument that their association with the company ended in 2001and that the case was against the company and not against them was rejected by the court. “Despite they being directors of the company and as such being responsible for following the order, they kept prolonging the matter,” consumer forum president Sneha Mhatre and members Madhuri Vishwarupe and N D Kadam observed in the order.
 
 But before this path-breaking order was issued, the court had to settle one point of law – are consumer forums within their rights to send offenders to jail for not following their orders? Once this point was settled, the forum had no hesitation in passing the order.
 
 Sunil Surana, the Doshis’ lawyer, said that an appeal against the order had already been filed in the State Commission.
 
 “The Commission has suspended the imprisonment and stayed the warrant issued by the district forum against the Doshis.” However, he refused to divulge any more details.
 
