PATNA: The war of words over the arrest of Bihar IAS official   in connection with a job scam has taken a new turn with a serving UP-cadre IPS officer drawing the Centre’s attention towards the Bihar bureaucrats’ admission that they act on verbal orders, which is a “violation” of the All India Service (Conduct) Rules, 1968.
 
  UP’s IG (rules and manuals)   wrote a letter to the DoPT (Union department of personnel and training) on Friday, a day after the IAS (Central) Association accused the   of taking “arbitrary” actions against civil servants.
  
  “I express deep surprise over the Bihar-cadre IAS officers repeatedly saying that they would not follow the oral orders any more in future. Rule 3(3) of the All India Services (Conduct) Rules, 1968 very clearly states that all orders by the superiors must be in writing and if oral orders are issued in case of emergencies, they must be reduced in writing as soon as possible. When the service rules are so clear, why are the Bihar IAS officers raising a hue and cry, insisting to legitimize an illegal and prohibited conduct?” Thakur wrote to the DoPT.
  
  Bihar IPS officers are also annoyed with the IAS Officers’ Association’s stand over the issue. “Police would not have gone to the extent of arresting a senior bureaucrat unless they had strong evidences against him. Besides, arrests are at times made even when the investigating team gets strong leads in a case. The IAS officials know very well all this. Yet they are protesting and making a human chain. Their only purpose seems to be underlining their superiority,” regretted a senior IPS officer posted in the state police HQ.
  
  Another senior IPS officer has posted his reaction on Facebook, which is laced with sarcasm. “IAS Association: Sudhir Kr is innocent. This verdict is final!!! Suggestion to President of India from IAS Association: There is no need of police investigation and judiciary’s verdict. Only ‘DIVYA GYAN’ of IAS Association is enough. Don’t waste time on these wings of democracy.”
  
  Retired IPS officer   defended the police action. “Police do not have powers to take arbitrary action as their actions are scrutinised by the judiciary. Their actions -- be they against politicians or officials -- are based on evidences and guided by law,” he said.
  
  IPS Officers’ Association’s Bihar chapter secretary Arwind Pandey denied any rift or rivalry between the two all-India services. “IAS-IPS are bhai-bhai; together they work to serve the 11 crore people of Bihar,” the   DG told TOI on Friday when asked about the association’s official reaction.
  
  Though firm on their stand that the arrest of Sudhir was a hasty decision, the Bihar chapter of IAS Officers’ Association also maintained officers of the two services take training together and work in coordination with each other. “However, a few recent incidents in Bihar indicate the IPS officers at times take ‘disproportionate action’ against us out of over-enthusiasm,” said a member of the IAS officers’ body.
  
  Unlike Pandey, however, retired IAS official V S Dubey minced no words in belittling IPS officers. “The competition that begins at the time of UPSC’s civil services exams continues even after joining services,” he told TOI on Friday.
  
  According to Dubey, a former Bihar chief secretary, IPS officers suffer from ‘inferiority complex’ because IAS officials enjoy higher positions and more prestige and decision-making powers than them. “In fact, 90% of the decisions are taken by IAS officials. Hence, IPS officers at times seek to assert their superiority by taking hasty actions against IAS officials during investigation into such cases as the job scam,” he said.
