Your   home blues could do with some quick fix treatment. It’s essential to make your home rain proof anyway, especially if you live in a city that expects more rainfall than usual. We need to look at some semi-permanent solutions for seepage as well as giving the home a splash of newness without stressing the purse strings.

 
 
 For your walls, go with a good waterproof paint that washes out the tell-tale signs of monsoon ravages. Allow enough time so that the moisture trapped within the walls has dried out or use a dehumidifier to hurry up the process. Ask your painting contractor to use a moisture metre on your walls to detect moisture content, after which he could coat the wall with a water-resistant product and care putty to fill up pores, gaps and cracks before the paint job.
 One of the main reasons for seepage in the interior walls is poor paint quality of your exterior wall. As concrete is intrinsically porous, it allows moisture to seep and deposit in the walls that subsequently builds up and forms damp patches in the interior wall, followed by fungus and mould. So before the next monsoon sets in (ideally 2-3 months before), ensure your exterior is treated. 
 
 
 
 I’ve always been partial to cladding walls with our exotic Indian stones. Stones like slate, limestones, natural stones, are an efficacious way of beating seepage and damp walls – a wonderful way to completely do away with painting. Instead just wipe the stone-clad wall, and the room looks new. It’s ideal for a humid city that gets heavy rainfalll, and the texture and earthy feel adds to the aesthetic of the decor. 
 
 
 
 Dowdy, tired-looking wood can be spruced up with hardened glass and reflective shutter treatments. You actually don’t have to re-polish after every monsoon, and the surface of your wardrobe can look as good as new. Mirror not only gives the feeling of enlarged space but is also low maintenance unlike wood. Experiment with different finishes that are water-resistant and only need an easy swipe with a soft cloth to make it look new. With moisture in the air, glass becomes a great way to treat furniture and wardrobe shutters. 
 
 
 
 I see interiors changing ‘shades’ with the weather these days. The sultry romance of monsoon can be displayed on your fabric in shades of aquas, teals, aubergines, mint, lime, avocado, olive accessorised with bright turquoise, fuchsia and citrine or metallic shine. 
 Refurbish tired sofas with easy to change, easy to wash loose covers, in chic pastels, that form an apt backdrop to the look you are creating. I am a great fan of loose covers and actually use them for all my interiors. For sofa coverings and dining chairs, go with cotton woven into dramatic weaves and embossed abstracts that go with the appeal of natural stones on the walls and floors. 
 
 
 
 Crystal and glass oversize light fixtures (especially in the form of pendulum lamps), art installations like organic lighting forms placed on tables or hanging low above the seating area, create an intimate setting. Use big sequins (2-3 inches ones), beads and diamante, layer exotic fabrics and unstructured, intricate embroidered throws to accent and embellish with pizzaz. 
 Install a chic dehumidifier in your rooms where you have contemporary art and wardrobes, or expensive shoes and handbags, to ensure all the ill effects of the monsoon are kept at bay and you are prepared for the festivities ahead.
 
 
 
 
 
