BHOPAL: Smartphone will now enable tuberculosis patients to register in the revised national tuberculosis control program (RNTCP), the state-run tuberculosis (TB) control initiative backed by the Union government. 

 It would eliminate the need for paperwork and patients would need not visit a TB centre for enrolment. A pilot project carried out in various locations is expected to be rolled out through NIKSHAY, a web-enabled application, which facilitates monitoring of universal access to TB patients. 
 
 The new smart phone application rollout is likely to be followed by a new proposal that would enable for 100% treatment of TB patients across the state. 
 
 Private practitioners who treat and detect TB patients would be paid consultation fee through the programme. 
 
 However, TB patients would need to register under the programme. Specialist consultation fee costs anything between Rs 500 to Rs 1,000.
 
 An estimated 80% of TB patients are detected by private doctors. 
 
 Studies indicate that with private doctors unable to register as DOTS provider, they were less inclined to refer TB suspects to government health centres. 
 
 On her visit to Bhopal on Wednesday, Indian   (ICMR) director general and Union department of health research (DHR) secretary Dr   said, "Apart from malaria eradication, ICMR focus is going to be on controlling TB too. It would include detection and cure of TB for the unreached." ICMR would conduct research in Madhya Pradesh. Eight state-of-the-art diagnostics vans would be rolled out by ICMR and MP department of health and family welfare in four districts of MP, which are considered to be TB prone. 
 
 Overall prevalence of TB in MP was 133 per lakh in 2015. Madhya Pradesh state TB officer and joint director health Dr   said, "We are focused on reaching the unreached and providing state-of-the-art medical care and diagnostics in MP." Vans are equipped with a sputum microscope, X-ray facility and a doctor. ICMR researchers will focus on districts like Alirajpur, Badwani and Jhabua.
 
 Apart from malaria eradication, ICMR focus is going to be on controlling TB too. It would include detection and cure of TB for the unreached
 
 
