MANGALURU: The   (NFF) has urged the central government to ban the disposal of   into the  .

 NFF chairperson M Illango said so far, it was thought   waste causes damage only to the environment and ecology of shallow waters. But now, recent research confirms that the micro plastic and plastic nano-granules can damage deep sea organisms. The organic material that is found in the top layers of the sea and that reach the sea bottom is called marine snow, he said, adding that this becomes part of the food for the living organism that live in the deep seas. 
 
 Pointing out that it is the duty of the government to ensure fish resource which provides for the food demand of the people and the livelihood of the fishing communities, be protected and therefore, the Union ministry for environment should take necessary steps in this regard to ban disposal of micro plastic into the sea.
 
 In a letter to environment minister Anil Madhav Dave, he urged the ministry to take necessary steps in this regard. He said like the United States of America and the United Kingdom, the Union government should also come up with laws to ban disposal of micro plastic into the sea.
 
 Illango also sought a blanket ban on the usage of micro plastic fibres in cosmetic and cleansing products should be totally banned. Citing the research done by Bristol and Oxford universities of UK, he said they have come up with findings that the micro plastic granules and fibres can reach the bottom of the deep sea and cause damage to the marine organisms in the deep sea. 
 
 “Beauty products, toothpastes, cleansing products and such other products seem to have micro plastic fibres and micro beads smaller than 5 mm length. When dresses made of synthetic fibres are washed, micro particles of polyester, nylon, acrylic acids enter the sea and get to the depth. The researches done in Central Atlantic Sea and   in which vehicles that could be remote-controlled were used to reach the depth of the sea and marine organisms from depth were collected. Hermit crabs, lobsters, sea cucumbers and such organisms were collected from a depth of 300 metres to 1,800 metres and found that they contain micro plastic fibres. This is the first proof that marine organisms living in such depths could consume micro plastic. Dr Michelle Taylor, the head of the research team says that the plastic microns that originate in the lands thousands of miles away, could reach such depth and this is a serious warning bell for us,” he pointed out.
 
 He said last week, A Gopalakrishnan, director of  , has said that by dumping plastic waste into the sea, we were causing great damage to the sea organisms and deprived ourselves of food.
 
