AJMER:   on Tuesday filed a chargesheet in the court in the five-year-old corruption case involving former chairman of   of Ajmer, Naren Sahani and one more accused. Both were accused of taking bribe in the land for land scheme of the state government. The court issued arrest warrants, on the request of ACB, and posted the next hearing for June 5.

 ACB took five years to investigate the case. Sahani was a powerful candidate for Congress ticket from Ajmer north in last state assembly elections but he lost the ticket because of these allegations.
 
 According to sources, ACB filed chargesheet against Sahani and land businessman Manoj Gidwani but found no charges against another accused Mahesh. SP (ACB), Jodhpur and the investigation officer filed the chargesheet and sought arrest warrant against the accused from the court.
 
 According to the case, Amjat Khan of Makarwari had filed a complaint in 2012 that his land was acquired by Ajmer Vidhuyt Vitran Nigam and he had to get another land in lieu of the acquired land. The complaint stated that the complainant met a UIT officer who said that without making the chairman happy, the file will not move. The complainant then met chairman Sahani who allegedly demanded four plots and Rs 12 lakh in cash and asked the complainant to meet an officer of UIT.
 
 The complainant had also produced a voice recording of the accused before the ACB.
 
 After investigation, ACB framed charges against the two accused.
 
 On Tuesday, they filed the chargesheet.
 
 After graft allegations in 2012, Sahani had to step down from his post. Initially, there were five accused in the case but evidence collected established involvement of two accused. 
 
 Sources said at that time Sahani was a prominent candidate against the present state education minister Vasudev Devnani, so there was a probability that votes of Sindhis will divide because of two Sindhi candidates from Ajmer north state assembly seat. 
 
 The UIT has now been upgraded to Ajmer Development Authority.
 
