JAMMU:   has transfered 14 officers, including 7   and 6 Kashmir Administrative Services (KAS) officers, during a   here on Monday.

 The Cabinet which met here under the chairmanship of Chief Minister Mehbooba Mufti has ordered 14 transfers and postings in civil department.
 
 Bipul Pathak, IAS (JK:1992), Principal Secretary Transport Department has been transferred and posted as Commissioner of Enquiries.
 
 Vineeta Gupta, IAS (JK:2000), Transport Commissioner, J-K, has been transferred and posted as Director General, IMPA relieving Lokesh Dutt Jha, IAS, Financial Commissioner, Revenue of the additional charge.
 
 Sanjeev Verma, IAS (JK:2001), Commissioner/Secretary PHE, Irrigation and Flood Control Department, has been transferred and posted as Commissioner/Secretary Tribal Affairs Department vice Saurab Bhagat, IAS.
 
 He will also hold the additional charge of Technical Education and Information Technology Department relieving R K Goyal, IAS, Principal Secretary Home Department of the additional charge.
 
 Nirmal Sharma, IAS (JK:2001), Commissioner of Enquiries, J-K, has been transferred and posted as Commissioner/Secretary Cooperative Department.
 
 Saurbah Bhagat, IAS (JK:2002), Secretary Tribal Affairs Department, has been transferred and posted as Secretary PHE, Irrigation and Flood Control Department.
 
 Hemant Kumar Sharma, IAS (JK:2002), Secretary Cooperative Department, has been transferred and posted as Secretary Transport Department.
 
 Mohammad Javed Khan, IAS (JK:2005), Custodian General, J-K, has been transferred and posted as Excise Commissioner, J-K. He shall take over the charge of the post upon retirement on superannuation of Tsering Angchok, IAS on February 28.
 
 Arun Kumar Sharma, KAS, Joint Financial Commissioner, Agrarian Reforms in the office of Financial Commissioner, Revenue, has been transferred and posted as Director, Urban Local Bodies, Jammu, vice Soujanya Kumar Sharma, KAS, who shall report in the General Administration Department for further posting.
 
 Pradeep Kumar, KAS, Director, Rural Development Department, Jammu, has been transferred and posted as Secretary, J-K State Information Commission, against an available vacancy.
 
 Ravinder Kumar Bhat, KAS, Director, Panchayati Raj Institutions, J-K, shall hold the additional charge of the post of Director, Rural Development Department, Jammu.
 
 Reyaz Ahmad Wani, KAS, Additional Deputy Commissioner, Srinagar, has been transferred and posted as Director, Urban Local Bodies, Kashmir, vice Tufail Matoo, who shall report in the General Administration Department for further posting.
 
 Joginder Singh Rai, KAS, under orders of posting as Programme Officer, ICDS Project, Kishtwar, has been posted as Additional Secretary, Department of Rural Development and Panchayati Raj. 
 
 
