MUMBAI: AICC general secretary   on Friday said the on-going war between chief minister Devendra Fadnavis and Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray was over sharing of money looted from the BMC. Singh, who extensively campaigned for   nominees for the BMC  , asked why it took Fadnavis two years to realise that corruption had taken over the   if he was serious about transparency in Asia’s richest municipal corporation. He said there was absolutely no transparency in the BMC administration.

 “Both Fadnavis and Thackeray detected corruption in the BMC only after they decided to contest the   separately,” Singh said. “It’s not an ideological fight. If Fadnavis is serious about cleansing the BMC, he must immediately sack Shiv Sena members from the cabinet. In the past two decades, the Sena-BJP alliance has failed to provide basic infrastructure for the financial capital. Mumbai does not have pothole free roads.”
 
 On the NDA government at the Centre, Singh said it appeared that PM Narendra Modi had failed on all fronts.
 
 “Initially, he strongly criticised the schemes drafted by the erstwhile Congress government, saying these should be closed,” he said. “But he implemented the same schemes with new names. Modi must accept the fact that the schemes drafted during Congress rule did help the weaker sections of the society.”
 
 On demonetisation, Singh said that even four months after the decision was taken, so far Modi had not explained to the nation the reason for banning notes of Rs 500 and Rs 1,000.
 
 “Even now there is acute shortage of currency notes,” he said. “I am told that to replace all the banned notes, it will take at least three months more. Modi must explain to the nation whether his government was able to recover the black money or not. If he doesn’t, we will assume it was a futile exercise and aimed at harassing the common man.”
 
 Singh said a Sena LS member told him that some 20 lakh people lost jobs with demonetisation and it would take three years for things to normalise.
 
 “Our economy has collapsed completely, industrial production has come to a grinding halt and, above all, lakhs of jobs have been lost, and there is no revival plan before Modi,” he said.
 
 Singh also attacked anti-corruption activist Anna Hazare. “He has been campaigning for appointment of lokpal and lokayukta during Congress rule, but now suddenly he is maintaining silence,” he said.
 
 
