PUNE: The Hutchings High School & Junior College in Camp has appealed to parents of students seeking admission to 'donate generously' for land that the school’s management is looking to purchase for a playground.

 A circular states it would accept a ‘minimum contribution of Rs two lakh towards the corpus fund’ and there is no upper limit. School principal   told TOI that it was only an appeal to the parents and it was not compulsory for them to contribute.
 
 Parents who approached the school seeking admission for their children were handed a paper stamped and signed by the secretary of the governing body of the educational institutions of the Bombay Annual Conference of the Methodist Church in Southern Asia which runs the school.
 
 “We hereby take this opportunity to thank you for your support and assistance rendered to Hutchings High School and Junior College, Pune. We continue to solicit your full cooperation in its future development,” the circular stated. 
 
 The management said the school was growing fast and required more infrastructural facilities to meet the needs of its students. “Hence, we are planning to purchase land (a playground) for the students of Hutchings High School & Junior College, Pune. This will require your good wishes and financial help,” the circular added.
 
 “We accept minimum contribution of Rs 2,00,000 (Rs two lakh only) towards the   with no maximum limit. We humbly request your good self to donate generously towards these objectives,” the circular stated.
 
 When contacted, Katawati said, “The donation is not compulsory and it is only an appeal to parents by the school’s management. We are catering to 3,000 students and there is a need for a playground for these many students and that is why we have made this appeal. We will ensure that the Corpus Fund is invested in the playground only.”
 
 When parents of students studying in the school were contacted, they denied receiving the circular. However, parents seeking admission for their children in the school said they were handed the paper seeking the donation, but it was not made mandatory.
 
