BAREILLY: A   to provide separate lanes for MLAs and MPs at toll plazas across the state, including national highways, in the event of traffic pile-ups, has caused considerable ire among bureaucrats, who have termed it a move to foist VVIP culture on the state.
 
  In his letter to district magistrates across UP dated July 15, a copy of which is with TOI, additional chief secretary Sadakant stated that as per rules notified by the Centre, no road toll would be charged from any   or MLC of the UP assembly, or MPs from the state.
  
  “All district magistrates will ensure that toll plazas under their jurisdiction will provide a separate lane to MPs and MLAs in the event of traffic jams,” the letter said, also saying that authorities of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) are expected to cooperate in the matter.
  
  The order has not been received enthusiastically by bureaucrats. A senior official said on the one hand the government had declared that it wanted to curb VIP culture by removing blue beacons, and on the other it was passing such orders which would reinforce VIP culture. “Such orders will certainly create difficulties for toll plaza operators,” an official said. On several occasions, legislators have had arguments at these toll plazas over exemption granted to them.
  
  An additional district magistrate said on condition of anonymity, “Legislators and parliamentarians hardly move without four to five vehicles when they go to Lucknow or Delhi, if they travel on national and state highways where the toll plazas are erected. Though they are already exempted from paying toll tax, when plaza employees ask the unofficial vehicles accompanying them to pay up, these ‘honourable’ MLAs or MPs and their followers turn rude, sometimes violent. In such cases, the law and order situation is also affected.”
  
  In May, BJP MLA   and his supporters allegedly assaulted toll plaza staff in Pilibhit after they were asked to pay the toll for unofficial vehicles in the MLA’s convoy. Officials said such incidents would continue to happen now that an order has been issued to provide a separate and toll-free lane. 
