CHENNAI: Purchase 50 ‘Thirukkural’ books and distribute them to as many schoolchildren, the   has told a   found guilty of contempt of court he filed a second anticipatory bail while the first plea was still pending.

 Justice S Vaidyanathan, admonishing D Muthu @ Nelson Muthu, president of Lakshmivilasapuram panchayat in Tiruvallur district, said: “It is clear the accused was aware of both petitions and he has not evinced any interest to instruct or ensure about the pendency of the earlier anticipatory bail petition, which was not mentioned in the subsequent anticipatory bail petition. Hence, he has to be punished and asked to pay costs of Rs 2,500, failing which, he should have been directed to undergo simple imprisonment for two days.”
 
 Noting that if no punishment was imposed, it would send the wrong signal that any person could take the court for a ride,   said: “In order to give him an opportunity to correct himself, while holding him guilty of committing contempt of court, in order to admonish the accused, this court, instead of directing the accused to pay costs, directs D Muthu @ Nelson Muthu to buy and distribute ‘Thirukkural’ with short meanings in Tamil, to 50 students of two schools in his area within one month.”
 
 Muthu is an accused in an assault case where the victim was hospitalized for a month before dying. On August 19, 2015, the court granted him anticipatory bail. But the original complainant told the court it was actually Muthu’s second anticipatory bail petition, and that his first petition was still pending. He withdrew it after obtaining relief in the second petition.
 
 The court then issued statutory contempt notice and included the advocates concerned as contemnors. Each contemnor filed an affidavit explaining the circumstances behind the second anticipatory bail petition. It became clear Muthu changed his counsel, and did not inform him the first petition was pending.
 
 Justice Vaidyanathan posted the case to April 26 for reporting compliance of the order.
 
