CHENNAI:   will return to the   only in 2018, but the fans may get to see some of its stars in action before that. The Chennai Super Kings Cricket Limited (CSKCL), which owns CSK, has shown interest in owning a team in  's ( ) new T20 league #T20 Global Destination League which is tentatively scheduled to be played in November-December this year.

 K George John, one of the directors of CSKCL, confirmed to TOI that they have showed “expression of interest“ to CSA earlier this month. “We have informed them about our interest. It's the first step to take. However, we haven't yet got the bidding documents. We had a very good fan following when the IPL happened in South Africa in 2009. But nothing has been finalised as of now and we will have a clear picture closer to the deadline (April 18) for submission of bids,“ John said.
 
 CSA had said last week that they have received more than 150 “expressions of interest“ for ownership of the teams in the league. They added that about 35% of those who showed interests are from India and 39 % from South Africa.
 
 However, the BCCI till date hasn't given permission for Indian players to participate in various T20 leagues across the world. John said they are “well aware“ of the rules and that their idea is to “build brand CSK“ across the globe. “We are well aware of the fact that Indian players won't be able to take part in various T20 leagues. We can't do much about it. As of now we have only thought of expanding and building the brand globally ,“ he added.
 
 John said that the move to show interest in a foreign league had “nothing to do“ with the suspension of CSK from IPL. “This has got nothing to do with suspension. We wanted to explore opportunities, see new markets, analyse and research the financial aspects,“ John added. Two years ago, Red Chillies Entertainment, owners of Kolkata Knight Riders, bought a stake from the Caribbean Premier League franchisee Trinidad & Tobago Red Steel and since then were termed Trinbago Knight Riders.
 
 Although CSA said that 35 % interests have been shown by Indians, John mentioned that they “haven't discussed“ with any of the other IPL franchisees regarding the T20 league.
 
 
