PATNA: A day before the   (PPDA) members are scheduled to observe a 15-minute blackout in protest against rise in incidents of petrol pump loot, unidentified armed criminals on Wednesday looted Rs 1.27 lakh from another petrol pump located on NH-30 near Horil Bigha under the   area in Patna.

 This was second incident of petro outlet loot in the area within a fortnight. On March 8, a sum of Rs 3.82 lakh was looted from   near Sikandarpur under the Fatuha police station area. The Horil Bigha petrol pump is located just 3km away from the Sikandarpur petrol pump.
 
 Police said the criminals on Wednesday also took away a rifle, five live cartridges and a CCTV digital video recorder from the premises of Anand Fuels. Three petrol pump employees, including the manager, were thrashed when they offered resistance.
 
 The PPDA on March 16 announced that they would hand over the keys of petrol pumps to CM   if incidents of loot did not stop. The petro outlets have also decided not to sell fuel from 8pm to 8.15pm on Thursday and from 8pm to 8.30pm on March 28 in protest against the police failure to check crime.
 
 Apparently furious over the loot on Wednesday, PPDA president B K Sinha said the petrol pump owners would now be forced to shut their establishments one after another. “We have convened a meeting of the association on March 26 to decide our future course of action,” he said.
 
 Anand Fuels proprietor Manoj Singh said the criminals entered the administrative office of the petrol pump around 2.15am and held manager Pankaj Kumar captive on gunpoint. 
 
 “Pankaj and another employee, Sindhu Singh, received head injuries during the loot. The criminals also opened fire in the air to terrorise the employees,” Singh said, adding altogether eight employees were on duty at the time of the crime.
 
 Singh said he had recently hired a guard and armed him with a regular rifle, but he was on leave.
 
 Daniwayan police station SHO   said two empty cartridges were recovered from spot. Raids are on to nab the criminals, he added.
 
 
