NEW DELHI: The   on Monday stopped a contagious trend of advocates’ associations passing resolutions not to allow lawyers to defend persons accused of heinous and child sexual abuse offences by terming these resolutions illegal.

 This ruling came in an order passed by a bench of   and Justices A M Khanwilkar and D Y Chandrachud, which was dealing with a petition filed by Ryan International School’s northern zone head Francis Thomas who had sought transfer of the trial from Gurugram to Delhi as lawyers’ associations in Sohna and Gurugram had passed resolutions and prevented lawyers from representing him in court.
 
 Even though the District Bar Association, Gurugram, informed the court through advocate Ravinder Kumar Yadav that the resolution had been withdrawn, the bench said, “It is necessary to state without any hesitation that an accused, whatever the offence may be, has the inherent right to be represented by a counsel of his choice. The tradition of the bar and the fundamental conception pertaining to access to justice does not permit any   to pass a resolution of the nature that had been done.”
 
 There have been several instances in the past when bar associations passed resolutions not to represent an accused, the most glaring being the accused in Nirbhaya gang rape-cum-murder case and 26/11 terror attack case accused Ajmal Kasab.
 
 Appearing for Thomas, senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi and counsel Sandeep Kapur told the bench that the atmosphere was hostile in both the Sohna magistrate’s court, which dealt with the case initially, and in the court of special judge, Gurugram, where it was transferred after the police added Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act after finding alleged sexual assault on Class 2 student Pradyumn.
 
 Rohatgi said the basic right of the accused to assistance from lawyers was denied to his client by the advocates’ bodies. “In the process, principles of natural justice were breached as the accused could not be heard by the trial court before he was remanded to custody,” he said.
 
 The bench said, “In view of the aforesaid (withdrawal of resolution), the petitioner can get himself represented through a counsel of his choice before the special court and in accordance with the provisions contained in POCSO Act. Despite the aforesaid assurance (from Yadav), we are obliged to direct that none of the members of the bar shall create any kind of impediment in the ingress and egress of any counsel representing the petitioner.
 
 “Needless to emphasise, the family members of the accused can accompany the lawyer. It shall be the responsibility of the office-bearers of the bar to see to it that the order is complied with in entirety because any deviation shall be seriously dealt with.” 
 
 This prompted Thomas’s counsel not to press for transfer of the case from Gurugram to Delhi for the present.
 
 
