Nagpur: The city has become a major transit hub for ganja or marijuana, a fact reflected in the city police statistics. Of the 267kg drugs seized by the city police’s anti-narcotics cell last year, over 99% was this cheap contraband substance. Another 151kg was seized by the Railway Protection Force (RPF) at Nagpur railway station. The pattern of seizures till July 25 this year by the anti-narcotics cell of the crime branch underlines the fact that smuggling ganja has increased manifold. Out of the 267kg of narcotics substances seized this year by anti-narcotics cell, 266kg was ganja. Also, out of 44 cases registered, 27 were slapped against 45 offenders caught smuggling ganja, till July 2017. This year still has five more months to go. Till July 2016, the city police had seized only 85kg ganja in 32 cases and arrested 41 persons. Though the number of offences registered has fallen by 5, the seizures in the ongoing year in the same period have gone up by 68%. Senior PI, anti-narcotics cell, RD Nikam, whose team last week seized 20kg ganja and arrested two from Rahate Colony Square, is in the middle of the action under DCP, crime, Sambhaji Kadam; ACP, crime, Somnath Waghchaure, and CP K Venkatesh. Nikam admitted that Nagpur’s geographical position and road transport network, including railways, have made it a mega transit point for drug peddlers. “The ganja comes from South India and is heading towards the north. It does not have much option but to cross through Nagpur. After RPF staffers started cracking down on them in trains, we are finding them in the city, trying to take the other routes towards other cities,” he said. Nikam, a former Mumbai crime branch officer, said Nagpur is not a big destination for most peddlers, but it is certainly their crucial transit point. Nikam said the popularity of ganja has much to do with it being cheap and readily available. “Ganja costs around Rs100 per tola, and is also easily available, while Charas is Rs3,000 for the same weight. Cocaine price runs into crores,” he said. “Many replace liquor with ganja, which keeps a consumer in an intoxicated state for around six hours,” he said. Analysing the trend, the senior PI also claimed that police have found the way to intercept peddlers and seize their consignments. “The modus operandi of the peddlers has been unravelled by the cops, which is leading to more seizures,” he said. Jyoti Kumar Satija, senior divisional security commissioner of RPF central railways, said intelligence networks were strengthened and checking was thoroughly done in the northbound trains coming from south, which has led to repeated successes for his team comprising senior PI V Wankhede, constable Vikas Sharma and others in seizing big consignments of ganja. “We started realizing that the ganja was being loaded into the general and other coaches from Vishakhapatnam and nearby stations. This prompted RPF teams to begin manual checking. Motivating them also helped,” he said. Satija also said agencies like National Narcotics Bureau, police stations and other intelligence agencies should join hands and break the pan-India chain. TRACK RECORD PERIOD ... Ganja seized ...... Other material ... Arrests Till July 25, 2017 ........ Rs26.62 lakh ..... Rs18.41 lakh ....... 45  Till July 31, 2016 ....... Rs7.79 lakh ......... Rs1.12 lakh .......... 41