How is that God’s Own Country, which has 44   and a long spell of monsoon, faces extreme drought every year? This is a question that most non-resident Keralites might have faced, while talking about the State’s water scarcity. From ‘carelessness’ to ‘no strict laws’, the reasons are numerous but hardly do we see any steps taken to educate our next generation about saving water.

 At the National River Festival scheduled from June 2 to 5, on the banks of River   or   in Cheruthuruthy, Thrissur, a group of youngsters are all set to do their bit to revive Kerala’s rivers.
 
 By setting up nurseries of trees on river sides, staging cultural programmes inspired by rivers and conducting seminars on water literacy, they will be trying all it takes for the much-needed cause. The youngsters, experts and activists gearing up for the event talk to Kochi Times about the fest, its focus and more:
 
 
 
 The biannual fest, which used to be held in May, has been pushed to June this year. Environmentalist Vipin Koodiyedathu, one of the organisers, tells us the reason. “People started asking what is the point of talking about water literacy in summer when we don’t have any water? That is why we decided to hold the fest in June, when monsoon starts,” he says.
 
 But what is water literacy? Dr Priya M, an expert, says, “It is a simple concept that teaches you where your water comes from and how you use it. It also gives you simple-yet-great tips on how you can conserve a good amount of water. Moreover, it throws light on the bigger picture about what can happen if we don’t follow the steps.”
 
 Brijesh KV, geology faculty of MES College, Ponnani, who is also part of the fest, says, “Water literacy helps you understand the basics of water  . For example, the difference between ground water and surface water, about recharging wells, major misconceptions and scientific steps about drilling wells and more.”
 
 
 
 Many of the volunteers this year were also part of the fest in 2015. K T Krishnakumar, a businessman from Kochi is one such volunteer and he says, “Last year after the fest, we conducted trips through the length and breadth of River Nila with a few youngsters. Not only did we clear plastic and other waste we came across, we also started regularly filing complaints about the land mining and other environmentally hazardous activities that we witnessed. The very feeling that there is a group keeping a close watch on the river, gradually brought down a lot of torture that Nila was subjected to.”
 
 This time, the group has decided to focus not just on Nila. River protection teams have already been created ahead of the fest, for all the districts of  . Krishnakumar says, “We have already started working towards involving college students in cleansing the rivers, ponds and streams in each of the districts and seeking help for the same through social media. Like they say, it’s a small step, towards a giant purpose.”
 
 
 
 At the River Fest, the environment enthusiasts are also set to distribute saplings. “These saplings are only for those who wish to plant trees on river banks. As that is the intention, we are only giving away the saplings of trees like bamboo, which are suited to be planted in such areas. They prevent soil erosion and also fertilise soil,” says Vipin.
 
 Under the supervision of Kerala Forest Research Institute (KFRI), the volunteers will also be trained on how trees are to be planted in these areas and how to preserve them. The team will also set up a nursery on the banks of Nila, as part of the event.
 
 
 River Nila is often termed the lap that nourished many Kerala art forms. As part of the fest, a handful of talented artistes are coming together to pay a tribute to the river.
 
 Kalamandalam Gopalakrishnan, who is choreographing one such performance featuring 60-odd artistes, says, “Ours would be a 45-minute performance that lines up Kathakali, Mohiniyattam, Ottanthullal, Pulluvanpattu and more, which are all often called ‘Nilatheera Kalaroopangal’ (the art forms of the banks of Nila). It would start off with Mohiniyattam, swayed to a poem about the river and would have a finale featuring all of the art forms.” 
 
 Idakka artiste Njaralathu Harigovindan will also stage a ‘kavyashilpam’ (poetry performance) based on works about the river.
 
