CHENNAI: DMK working president   on Monday demanded that   Governor   order a probe into the alleged corrupt dealings of   ministers and former chief minister  .

 Reacting to reports of the income tax department writing a letter to chief secretary Girija Vaidyanathan mentioning the names of AIADMK ministers, MLAs and officials found in the sand mining baron Sekhar Reddy's diary, Stalin said: “The letter has brought to light the dealings the AIADMK government has had with Reddy in its more than five years of rule.“
 
 Stalin demanded that the governor order a probe into Panneerselvam's alleged involvement in an insurance scheme scandal. A Tamil weekly carried an article saying there were allegations that the former chief minister had favoured a few insurance companies for the government's medical insurance scheme.
 
 The DMK leader said several important anti-corruption department posts were vacant and the government had not accepted demands to appoint a Lokayukta in the state. “The vigilance department is headless and a DGPlevel officer has not been ap pointed as di rector for the department yet and there is no separate IAS official to head the dehus virtually partment. Thus virtually there is no official to sanction probe into the charges against the ministers,“ said Stalin.
 
 Apart from what has been mentioned in the letter, an FIR has been filed against food minister R Kamaraj.“The government filed the FIR only after Supreme Court censured the government twice. He has been accused of cheating a person to the extent of `30 lakh. The investors are shying away from Tamil Nadu and recently Kia Motors decided to invest in Andhra Pradesh. Both chief minister   and industries minister M C Sampath have not commented on the company preferring AP,“ said Stalin.
 
 PMK has also demanded immediate action against the ministers and officials named by the I-T department. In a statement, PMK founder S Ramadoss said the chief secretary, who is an honest official, should not delay ordering a probe into the charges. “Even though the letter was sent several days back why hasn't the chief secretary taken action on ordering a probe,“ asked Ramadoss.
 
