PUNE: A   firm, claiming to be an   of   Infocomm Ltd, allegedly duped some people on the pretext of installing mobile towers on their properties in lieu of hefty payments.

 Investigations revealed that the fraudulent company had created a   website to dupe people across the state. The Chatushrungi police has registered an offence against the company under relevant sections of the Information and Technology Act after an employee of Reliance Jio lodged a complaint.
 
 A Cyber Crime Cell officer said the police were investigating if the dubious firm had duped anyone from the city. “The Nashik police received a few complaints. We have blocked the fake website created by the fraudulent company,” he said.
 
 The officer said the suspect had created a fake website using the name of Reliance Jio. It also used Reliance Jio’s logo and information.
 
 The fraudsters of the Bengaluru firm used to tell the interested people that the company was an associate of Reliance Jio and was into installation of mobile towers.
 
 “The suspects used to lure people offering handsome payments in the form of rent if they allowed the Bengaluru firm to use their property for installing mobile towers,” said the officer.
 
 He said the suspects used to tell the interested people to send their identity proofs and details regarding their property. “After receiving the documents, the dubious company’s representatives would contact the people concerned and tell them to transfer some money for the registration of the agreement and other necessary formalities,” the officer said.
 
 The officer said prima facie investigations revealed a few property owners from Nashik had transferred Rs15,000 each to the fraudulent company. “A person from Nashik became suspicious when he was told to deposit the money in some bank account and approached the Reliance Jio’s office in Nashik,” the officer said.
 
 The spokesperson of Reliance Jio told TOI that the fraud came to light when the company verified the documents given by the Bengaluru-based company and found them fake. “We immediately registered the offence with the police to prevent the company from duping people by using our name,” he said.
 
 He said the company did not have any business relation with the Bengaluru-based firm. “Moreover, we never ask for any type of charges while installing mobile towers on people’s properties,” the spokesperson said.
 
 An officer of the Chatushrungi police station said the case had been transferred to the Nashik police for investigations. “The Cyber Crime Cell, too, is probing the case,” he added.
 
