WASHINGTON: Struggling to gain a firm footing in its first month in office, the fledgling Trump administration was rocked by the resignation on Monday of its   Adviser Michael Flynn, whose unauthorized contacts with Russian officials was seen to have the potential to compromise US security.

 The immediate cited reason for Flynn’s resignation was that he misled vice-president  , who apparently took the NSA’s word that he did not discuss the sanctions issue with the Russian ambassador to U.S during Trump administration’s transition phase, just before it took office. Pence batted for Flynn on television shows based on his assurance, but it transpired that the embattled NSA, already at sea in the tumultuous early days of the administration, had erred.
 
 ''I inadvertently briefed the Vice President-elect and others with incomplete information regarding my phone calls with the Russian ambassador. I have sincerely apologized to the President and the Vice President, and they have accepted my apology,'' Flynn wrote in a contrite resignation letter. He will go down in history as the NSA with the shortest stint -- just 24 days -- in a job whose average tenure is two and half years.
 
 Another retired general, Keith Kellogg, was designated the interim national security adviser, and he along with two other former military brass, Gen David Petraeus and former former Vice Admiral Bob Harward, are said to be in a shortlist as potential replacements for Flynn.
 
 The sudden resignation, which in effect was a firing, is emblematic of a turbulent start to the Trump presidency. Voted into office largely by a Middle American constituency with a mandate to challenge established norms and change the status quo, the Trump team is struggling to find its feet in a U.S capital beset with traditional thinking and entrenched interests.
 
 A deep distrust of Russia stretching some seven decades is part of this. Not just Flynn, but even President Trump is under the gun for being soft on Russia, with feverish speculation about their motives and compulsions. Some analysts see the Flynn scalp as the old establishment’s first strike against the Trump dispensation, which has been disdainful of the old thinking on Russia.
 
 It now transpires that the Justice Department, based on monitoring of phone calls between Flynn and the Russian ambassador to U.S. (an interception that was described as routine and barely invoked the kind of outrage that the alleged Russian hacking did) had warned the   last month that the NSA had not been fully forthright about his conversations with Russian ambassador Sergey Kislyak. 
 
 In the conversations, he purportedly discussed, albeit indirectly, the possibility of rolling back the sanctions imposed by the Obama administration in its final days for Moscow's alleged hacking and other infractions. Consequently, the Justice Department feared that the NSA could be vulnerable to blackmail by Moscow if he did not deliver on his assurance.
 
 The person who conveyed this to the White House was Acting Attorney General Sally Yates, described as an Obama administration layover subsequently fired by President Trump, who himself is seen in both liberal and conservative quarters as being too cozy with Moscow. 
 
 In fact, late night comedy shows have been merciless in spoofing this aspect of the Trump presidency with skits showing him intimate with Russian leader  . Meanwhile, Moscow rushed to defend Flynn and deny any transgressions in the hours leading to his resignation, which was itself filled with suspense. 
 
 The White House initially sent mixed signals, with Trump’s White House Counselor KellyAnne Conway saying Flynn retained Trump’s confidence and the President’s spokesman Sean Spicer saying Trump was ''evaluating the situation'' with regards to Flynn. Stephen Miller, another influential Trump aide also declined to defend Flynn on Sunday talk shows, indicating the NSA’s days, if nor hours, were numbered.
 
 Flynn’s eventual scalping strengthens the hand of vice-president Mike Pence, arguably the most experienced administrator in the Trump cabinet, particularly given the U.S President’s own tempestuous record, and the   establishment’s suspicion over his lack of pathology towards Russia.
 
 The Flynn flame-out comes amid almost non-stop criticism of Trump and his close advisors for their perceived inexperience in domestic governance, foreign policy engagement, and in elementary matters of protocol. Over the weekend, the U.S President was skewered by the media for conducting an emergency national security meeting with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe in a public setting at his Mar-a-Lago club, where aides helped the two leaders read documents in cell phone lights (because of dim lighting), following the crisis arising from North Korea’s missile tests.
 
 Patrons at the club posted photos of the emergency meeting on social media. Compounding that, another patron posted a selfie with President Trump’s aide-de-camp who carries the so-called ''nuclear football'' – a suitcase that contains the codes to launch nuclear weapons if needed when the President is on the road.
 
 
 
