LUCKNOW: Residents of localities under   have threatened to   citing terrible   in the region over the past five years.Residents complained that neither  , nor their MLA pay heed to their woes despite numerous representation to highlight problems like frequent short circuit caused by faulty wiring, power theft and open transformers.

 As voting day nears, TOI visits the city's constituencies to see what MLAs have done and what is needed. A pitch report Hazratganj, Park Road, Narhi, Jopling Road, Gokhale Marg, Bulter Palace Colony, Dalibagh, Rana Pratap Marg, Nawal Kishore Road and   . It also covers some Old City areas like Phoolbagh, Nazarbagh, Yahiyaganj, Maulviganj, Rakabganj, Aminabad, Hewett Road, Model House, Aishbagh, Shahmina road and Nadan Mahal Road. Some areas of Gomtinagar, including Vikas Khand, Vipul Khand, Vijay Khand and Vishal Khand are also in the constituency.
 
 HAZRATGANJ| High-tension wires hang bare which causes short circuit. Loose wires hang precariously in the middle of the road near Sibtainabad Imambara.Similar situation was witnessed near China Bazar. Locals said wires are weak and 1-2 hour power outages due to short circuit is routine. At Halwasiya, residents said a team of electricity department had come 10 years ago and noted all problems but never took action. “Problems persist and sick of assurances we have decided not to vote in this election,“ said Shahnawaz Ghazi, a resident of Halwasiya.
 
 LALBAGH | Oil leaks from transformers posing threat of fire in the area. Locals in Beldari lane said a shop was gutted in a fire a few months ago due to short circuit in the transformer. In Khandari bazaar area, hapazard wiring was found in almost all the poles. Families said they lodged complaints many times and even called local MLA Ravidas Mehrotra several times, but got no response. “I spent Rs 3,000 to get loose wiring fixed in my lane after failing to meet the MLA,“ said Pawan Kumar, a resident.
 
 MAULVIGANJ | Remember how chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav and Congress vice president Rahul Gandhi had to duck to avoid loose and hapazard wiring hanging on the road during their recent roadshow? People in the area said they have been complaining about the problem for many years and hope now that it will get resolved after two VIP faced what commonman suffers everyday . “The MLA and electricity department have been of no help. I asked the MLA a year ago to make the area snag-free but he did nothing,“ said Saeed Ahmad.
 
 PRATAP MARKET | The bustling market with 500 shops was gutted in fire last year due to short circuit and shopkeepers said it is common there. Power theft is another problem. High voltage wires hang all over the market. “I lodged several complaints but there is no reply as officers and the MLA never visit the area,“ said Shiv Shankar a shopkeeper.
 
