SHIMLA: The Kotkhai gangrape and murder incident has put Congress government on the back foot, especially chief minister  , who also holds the home portrfolio. Not happy with the poor handling of the issue, the Congress is a divided house with some even approaching the party high command against Virbhadra. Many feel that three major mistakes in the case proved detrimental and brought embarrassment to the government.

 Sources said that the hasty investigation conducted by police, uploading the photographs of alleged suspects on the Facebook page of Virbhadra and later removing them and plans of naming a school after the victim had brought embarrassment to the government. They further said that alertness of bureaucracy could have averted the situation from going out of control. 
 
 It is being said that uploading the photographs of alleged suspects on the Facebook page of Virbhadra and later removing them immediately was the first major mistake as this led to the belief that the real accused were being saved as those arrested were different from those in the photographs. It is a known fact that due to his busy schedule, Virbhadra does not handle his Facebook page personally, but now questions are being asked that who had provided these photographs and why the same were uploaded without verification. The BJP had made it a major issue and leader of opposition Prem Kumar Dhumal had even demanded a probe into this.
 
 The press conference of state DGP too has become the talk of the town as on July 13, the police had issued a press release in which only one arrest was shown but later in the afternoon when the DGP held a press conference, six arrests were shown. The custodial death of a co-accused   by the alleged main accused Rajender Singh was being considered as the second mistake in this case as after this violent protests were witnessed in Kotkhai. 
 
 The decision to name an upgraded senior secondary school after her is being considered as the third mistake in this case as according to Supreme Court directions and section 228A of the IPC, the identity of a rape victim cannot be disclosed. When Dhumal had questioned the wisdom of the state government in naming the school after the rape victim , government withdrew the notification. People are now questioning why the bureaucrats failed to consider the legality involved and why they did not apprise Virbhadra about the same before issuing the notification.
 
 
