BHUBANESWAR: High-profile BJD MP   Panda on Tuesday joined the growing number of BJD leaders to express that a strong resentment is brewing in the ruling regional party. 

 To drive home his point, the industrialist-politician cited the examples of protests after the latest reshuffle of Naveen Patnaik ministry and two BJD leaders defecting to the BJP in as many days.
 
 Baijayant's latest outburst is a sequel to his earlier tweets and a newspaper article in past two months, which invariably questioned his own party's decisions. The same has intensified speculations about his political plans and the BJD's future. "One gone yesterday, another today. Yet when i cautioned last week, was contradicted. Now large sections unrepresented, resentment everywhr," the Kendrapada MP tweeted, summing up two important developments in a single tweet of 140 characters.
 
 The first part of the tweet refers to joining of BJD leaders   and Jayaram Pangi in BJP on Monday and Tuesday, respectively.
 
  Last week, Baijayant had tweeted that a conspiracy was hatched to throw out some party leaders, a statement strongly contradicted by chief minister Naveen Patnaik.
 
 The second part of the Lok Sabha member's tweet is about the ministry rejig in which 18 districts remain unrepresented, igniting protests in Sambalpur, Sundargarh and   area of Sonepur districts. At least six MLAs have come out in the open expressing their anguish over the reshuffle.
 
 Responding to the senior Parliamentarian's tweets, BJD spokesperson Pratap Keshari Deb said the MP should not question the reshuffle, which is a prerogative of the chief minister. Deb said Baijayant should ask the BJP how it took Pangi against whom the saffron party sought CBI probe in connection with murder of Itishree Pradhan, a school teacher in 2013.
 
 Analysts point out a pattern and consistency in the approach of Baijayant and another party MP Bhartruhari Mahtab questioning the BJD functioning. Baijayant started by writing an article in an Odia daily seeking self-introspection in the party in March. Mahtab, who edits an Odia daily, in an editorial last month pointed out that BJD leaders were busy in bayanbaazi" (making statements) while the BJP was moving ahead with an action plan for 2019. "Discussions in open forums show the leaders have either lost faith in their party leadership or have no open access to the BJD boss to put forth their views," an analyst said.
 
