RUDRAPUR: The road to assembly from Bajpur does not seem to be easy for Congress turncoat and sitting MLA  , who joined the BJP just a month ahead of the single-phase state polls, as his nearest rival and Congress candidate Sunita Bajwa Tamta — a saffron party rebel — seems to have an edge over him with highest number of Sikh, the community which her husband belongs to, and a sizable number of Muslim voters in this reserved constituency placing her in an advantageous position.
 
  Sikhs and Muslims — 33,300 and 29,100 respectively — jointly constitute nearly 50% (62,400) of the total 1,35,000 electorates in this segment; of which, the Muslim community hardly votes for the saffron party.
  
  The Bajpur constituency is set to witness all the six contestants — including Manisha Ali of  , Ram Avtar of Bahujan Samaj Party, Gautam Chunara of Shiv Sena and Mangat Singh an Independent — using their clout to establish their supremacy.
  
  However, the show seems to be stolen by arch rivals Congress and BJP. While Arya highlighting the failures of the government led by his previous party, Tamta, a turncoat, accusing her BJP rival of being an opportunist.
  
  “Nobody can forget Arya’s confrontation with Gadarpur legislator Arvind Pandey, who used to represent Bajpur assembly. Arya hatched a conspiracy against him and sent him to jail for two months. And, despite the fact that both share BJP’s dais, Pandey will never be by Arya’s side,” said Narendra Kamboj, a resident of Bajpur.
  
  All doesn’t seem well in the BJP in Udham Singh Nagar district, especially in Bajpur, following the party’s decision to field Arya, who revolted against chief minister Harish Rawat. Besides, the saffron party’s desperation to return to power in Uttarakhand can be gauged from the fact that not only Arya, a minister in Rawat’s government, who was being considered as a Dalit face of the party, but his son Sanjeev too got a ticket (from Nainital).
  
  Arya got a BJP ticket within 48 hours of leaving Rawat and the BJP, too, obliged him by giving his son a ticket.
  
  However, with over a dozen leaders expressing their resentment over the Bajpur ticket to Arya, it will be a difficult task for the BJP to ensure a good show here.
  
  As a Congress candidate in year 2012, Arya had bagged 38,524 votes, defeating his nearest rival BJP’s Rajesh Kumar by 15,131. However, this time around he may face an entirely different situation, believe keen political observers.
  
  Gurpinder Singh, a Sikh resident of Bazpur, told TOI, “Both are turncoats, but we will vote for Tamta, who belongs to our community, and has a good image too.”
  
  Calling Arya a “betrayer”, Maqdoom Pasha of Doraha village accused him of pursuing “selfish politics”. “Arya joined BJP saying he was unhappy with Congress, but he is an opportunist and has been blackmailing Congress for a long time. The Muslim community don’t trust him after he joined BJP.”
  
  Speaking to TOI, Tamta, niece of Union minister of state for textiles Ajay Tamta, said, “I am confident of victory. I am a ‘pahari’ daughter and a Sikh daughter-in-law. With the blessings of all communities and Congress’ votes, I will make Arya stumble.”
  
  Tamta’s husband Avtar Singh Bajwa, also a national athlete like his wife, accused Arya of “plundering” the district. “Everyone knows about his close proximity with illegal miners. His aides have turned multi-millionaires and he is among the most corrupt leaders in the state.”
  
  “When BJP accepted Arya, there was no point for me to be with the party that claims itself to be a party with difference, because it has lost its ideology,” added Bajwa.
  
  On the other hand, Arya too is confident of his victory. “I have worked hard for the development of Bajpur, which now has a very big network of roads and basic amenities such as water and electricity in each village.”
  
    president Ankur Agrawal, Harender Singh Laddi, an influential leader, Upendra Chaudhary, president of Uttaranchal Awas Board, and several others from Bajpur joined the BJP along with Arya.
