NEW DELHI: The AAP-led   has for the first time put out a detailed note on its  , seeking to “usher transparency and accountability in public spending”. 

 The dossier based on baseline data and goals set by departments lays down short-term and long-term targets for each department with indicators for “output and outcome”. It’s been uploaded on the planning department’s website, with an invitation to the people to give feedback. 
 
 All departments have been broadly classified into eight sectors — education, health, social security and welfare, urban development and housing, water supply and sewerage, infrastructure, environment and forests, and others. 
 
 The draft names the programme or scheme, the allocation, and completion timeline. This is followed by a brief description of the programme objective, and outcome and output indicators listed against each objective. The baseline values for 2016-17 and targets for 2017-18 are also listed. The last column lists the risk factors and explanatory remarks by each department.
 
 The document is based on a comprehensive exercise carried out in the last few months by each department and agency in which all major programmes and schemes (revenue and capital components) were mapped. As a large volume of data will be generated in the coming months, an IT application will be developed for quarterly tracking based on department inputs and even independent surveys.
 
 The draft opens with a concept note that draws from deputy CM Manish Sisodia’s speech on March 8. Sisodia explained the difference between the outcome budget and traditional budget: “Traditional budgets would typically mention the amount allocated for construction of schools and clinics, but did not specify the targeted number of people that these institutions would serve. Such a traditional approach to budgeting falls short on two major counts: first, it ignores the fact that the government is ultimately a custodian of people’s hard-earned money; second, with traditional budgets, it was difficult to monitor the quality of spending within the government, let alone outside the government.”
 
 Now, ministers and officials could keep track of their performance and ensure timely course correction while the people could see how their money is being spent.
 
 
