NAGPUR: Days before NGO Janmanch’s surprise visit exposed latecomers including the director at   (NU) exam section, Registrar   had warned of strict action against teachers, officials and employees if they failed to come on time.

 In a notification dated July 13, Meshram stated that strict action would be taken even against heads of department (HoDs), if they were found to be coming late or taking leave without permission.
 
 On July 19, TOI had reported that when Janmanch visited the exam section even the head   was among the latecomers. Now it remains to be seen what action the NU takes against him as well as other latecomers. 
 
 However, NU insiders said the real intent of issuing the notification may not be to discipline its employees but target HoDs who don’t conform to top officials, or are not always on the same page.
 
 The claim holds water if the directives in the notification and statements of NU officers are compared. 
 
 The notification clearly states that strict action would be taken against heads if they report late for work or are not present in their office during official work hours. This is practically not possible for the heads. Generally, HoDs are on the move and have to keep shuttling between departments, NU main building or the exam section because of their multiple-assignments other than teaching.
 
 Those behind framing the rules are very well aware of this and have deliberately included heads in the notification, the insiders said.
 
 Pro-Vice Chancellor  , who is handling the exam section, didn’t comment on Janmanch’s visit but defended Khaty.
 
 When asked why HoDs have been included in the notification, Yeole sounded self-contradictory. “The rules are same for all,” he said.
 
 But, when asked what action would be taken against the director, he said, “The heads are exempted since they can’t remain stationed at one place. Many times they are called for meetings which get over around 7pm. So there is not point for them to go back to their department and punch out.”
 
 Yeole pointed out that he was pretty happy with the exam section as introduction of biometric attendance system has improved the situation.
 
 On the nature of action, Yeole said, “After three late marks, salary would be deducted. In one case, an employee has been suspended for remaining on leave without applying.”
 
 Registrar Meshram told TOI, “The administrative officers will be called and a report will be prepared. The exam section will be asked to give explanation. The vice chancellor is out of station so can’t speak about the action to be taken. Process of natural justice will be followed.”
 
 (with inputs from  )
 
 
