Visakhapatnam: The ministry of shipping is interested in developing cruise tourism for Visakhapatnam in different circuits. In this regard, a four-member consultant team from Delhi accompanied by an expert from Netherlands visited Visakhapatnam Port Trust (VPT) on Monday. Deputy chairman of VPT PL Haranadh said, “The team and experts came for a preliminary market survey to find out about the popular circuits, potential infrastructure gap, number of vessels required for coastal transportation as well as cruises through various circuits. The team is to submit their report within two-and-a-half months. Once the report comes, we can call for tender to fill the infrastructure gap, operational requirements of the circuits and identify the popular circuits where cruise tourism can take off. And then, within a year, work for developing cruise tourism can commence.” “As of now, Vizag has a huge potential for developing cruise tourism. Some of the circuits which can be developed include Vizag to Chilka in Odisha, Andamans, Amaravati in Vijayawada, Colombo in Sri Lanka, Sundarbans in West Bengal and so on. All these routes can be connected through cruise tourism based on their popularity,” averred Haranadh. “Funding for the project would be partly from the central ministry of tourism while the AP government can also chip in,” he added. Meanwhile, Hendrik Antoon Van Dijk from Netherlands along with the team of cruise tourism visited VPT on Monday. The deputy chairman of VPT explained the importance of developing cruise tourism in the port city and elaborated the existing facilities. “The team would develop an action plan, based on best practices at the international level and infrastructure improvement requirements at the identified ports,” Haranadh said.  Vizag has a huge potential for developing cruise tourism. Some of circuits which can be developed include Vizag to Chilka in Odisha, Andamans, Amaravati in Vijayawada, Colombo in Sri Lanka, Sundarbans in West Bengal. All these routes can be connected through cruise tourism based on popularity