PUNE: In a sudden rise, as many as 16 people died of   in Maharashtra in the first 12 days of this month, taking the H1N1 death toll to 26 in the   this year, so far. 

 Besides, five swine flu  , including three from Pune and one each from Pimpri Chinchwad and Nagpur, are in critical condition and have been put on ventilator support. 
 
 Till now, a total of 101 people have tested positive for the disease in the state, including maximum 50 from Pune city and 13 from Pimpri Chinchwad, 11 from Nashik and four each from Kolhapur and Aurangabad. Sporadic   have also been recorded in Mumbai (2) and Vasai-Virar Municipal Corporation (1).
 
 Of the 26 casualties, Pune city has again recorded maximum nine deaths, followed by Aurangabad city with four, Pimpri Chinchwad and Solapur with three each among others. In Pune, the state-run Sassoon hospital also recorded two deaths due to swine flu.
 
 In view of the sudden rise in cases, health authorities have appealed to the citizens to take precautionary measures to ward off the infection.
 
 “We have instructed health officials to intensify screening and surveillance activities. Also, we have asked them to vaccinate patients with underlying medical conditions against swine flu. There is no need to panic. People should continue to take precautions in terms of basic sanitation practices like frequent hand washing, good diet and healthy habits. People with   should be more vigilant,” Kanchan Jagtap, joint commissioner, state health department, told TOI.
 
 The state health officials have intensified screening of patients having influenza-like illness. “As many as 3.49 lakh patients have been screened since January 1, 2017. Among the screened, a total of 3,377 patients, who were suspected to have contracted swine flu, were administered Tamiflu,” said a state health official.
 
 Experts have attributed the rise in swine flu cases to huge gap in day and night temperatures. “Temperature fluctuations enable infections to enter the body easily as the body loses its ability to adapt readily to an environment that is constantly changing from being too hot to being too cold and vice-versa. And those with weak immune system or with underlying medical conditions like diabetes and hypertension develop complications,” S T Pardeshi, chief of the health department at PMC, said.
 
 
