NEW DELHI: In the last 180 days, a stalker has been arrested every day in Delhi. Yet data show the numbers have gone down this year as compared to the corresponding period last year. 

 However, cases like that of Riya Gautam’s   show that   needs to do much more. 
 
 In Gautam’s case, her killer, Mohammed Adil, was a criminal since he was a teenager. When he was only 17, he had learnt to steal from his uncle and had actually stolen a motorcycle just for the heck of it. 
 
 In the past one and a half years, he had been arrested four times. On one occasion, he had asked Gautam for help, and she had asked a friend to bail Adil out. She couldn’t have imagined that he would kill her. 
 
 That’s why   should be taken seriously. Unfortunately, it is often not, until threats of violence are issued or women are actually attacked physically. Police say cases of stalking by strangers are fewer, and more often than not, the offender is someone known. 
 
 In the first six months this year, 203 men have been arrested for stalking while 259 cases have been registered. In 2016, 835 such cases had been registered and 658 arrests made. A particularly horrifying murder had also taken place when a stalker had stabbed a woman 30 times at a busy area. 
 
 Stalking was made an offence after rape laws were amended. Section 354 (D) of IPC specifically deals with this crime. But since the offence is bailable, it’s hardly a deterrence. 
 
 Police and legal experts say a registry of such offenders should be made and those people should be made to report to the police regularly. This, they say, could be a stronger deterrence. Many countries have such databases that law enforcers regularly consult. 
 
 Delhi Police also has a system by which it publishes a list of sex offenders on its website. This ‘name and shame’ mechanism has been around since 2013. The details of 700 such convicts have been uploaded by the crime branch so far. “The police upload the names, pictures and conviction details for three offences—rape, molestation and outraging a woman's modesty,” said Dependra Pathak, chief spokesperson, Delhi Police.
 
 The initiative is in line with the Justice Verma commission recommendations on women’s safety and Union home ministry directives. The offenders listed are those convicted between 1983 and 2016. To access the registry, one needs to log on to Delhi Police’s website, www.delhipolice.nic.in, toggle down the “useful links” tab and click on the link named “sexual harassment”. 
 
 But experts say the scope of the registry should be broadened. Centre is learnt to be working on a national sexual offender registry, which might kick in once all police stations are connected to a single network.
 
