Lucknow: The grand arched corner at one end of the Imambara next to the historic Juma Masjid in Thakurganj has been curtained to create a classroom with rugs spread out on the floor. The teacher and students have all assembled and the class on Islam and its culture has begun. There is a group of 50-odd students, including boys and girls, and a Saudi national, an overall white robe on his large frame and there is no sound.

 The teacher, who speaks only Arabic and the students, none of whom knows the language, have only one thing in common—the language of signs. It is with the use of   that Syed Najeeb al Ali has for the past 10 days been teaching Islam to speech and hearing impaired boys and girls in Lucknow. The initiative, claimed Imam of the Juma Masjid, Maulana Kamran, is first of its kind in city.
 
 Starting as a community of differently abled Shia children connecting online through Mumbai-based activist Javed Husain, the group that transcended from virtual to real, added Sunni children too, as it became active in Lucknow. From knowing nothing about Islam, about the Prophet Mohammad and his family, the children said the classes have been an eye-opener for them. 
 
 The plan now is to take these classes by Najeeb Ali further through CDs and DVDs and video calls in the presence of Maulana Kamran and others, so as to train the clerics here in basic sign language. The first such class in India was taken three years back by Najeeb Ali in Mumbai. 
 
 “For the past 14 years I have been going around the world, teaching deaf and mute children across the globe about Islam since they comprise the section most neglected and it started when I realised that in my family of clerics, my cousin, who was speech and hearing impaired, knew nothing about Islam,’ said Ali in Arabic as Kamran translated his words. “I then established a madrassa in various parts of the Middle-East, including Bahrain, Kuwait, Iran and Iraq, for such special students,” he added. 
 
 Conveying his experience from the class to the teacher and his brother, Jauhar Abbas, a student said using sign language, “My family could help me understand only little about my religion through gestures. I used to go attend sermons but could pick up nothing.” 
 
 
