JAIPUR: Friday was a big day for Rajasthan in the field of organ transplant. City doctors performed transplant of not only heart, liver, kidneys but also   was conducted for the first time.

 A brain-dead person donated his organs which were transplanted in four different persons. Kidney and pancreas were transplanted into one patient who was suffering from hypertension and diabetes which damaged his kidney. “Now, after pancreas transplant, his diabetes will be cured,” Dr  , consultant   at   (MGH), said.
 
 Godara said the patient was suffering from diabetes as his pancreas was not producing insulin. Also, hypertension and diabetes had adverse effect on his kidneys. “He was suffering from end stage kidney disease. He was on dialysis since May 2016,” Dr Godara added.
 
 The organs were donated at Mahatma Gandhi Hospital while heart was transplanted into a patient, in  , who had suffered heart attack three years ago.
 
 MGH chairman M L Swarnkar said Jaipur is now among five places in the country which has witnessed pancreas transplant.
 
 The heart was transported to Eternal Hospital from MGH for transplant. “We have transplanted the heart into a 57-year-old patient who had suffered heart attack three years back, after which he developed Ischemic cardiomyopathy,” Dr Ajeet Bana, chairman of cardiac sciences at Eternal Hospital, said.
 
 In Ischemic cardiomyopathy, a patient’s heart is not able to pump enough blood for rest of the body. In such a condition, heart transplant is one of the options available to save lives of such patients. In this case, his blood vessels have narrowed down which supply blood and oxygen to heart. The surgery was started at 10pm and continued till 6am Friday.
 
 Liver and pancreas transplants were conducted in MGH by Dr Raj Shekhar, who is specialist in such kind of complicated surgeries.
 
 The surgeries became possible because of the consent given by family of a patient, who was declared brain-dead, to donate his organs.
 
 Thirty-year-old Rajendra Kumar, a resident of Hanumangarh, was a contractor in a telecom company. While he was laying down some underground cables in Ludhiana, the sand caved in. He was rushed to a hospital immediately. On February 21, he was brought to MGH for his treatment. But, on Thursday, he was declared brain-dead by brain death declaration committee of the hospital. Counselling team of the hospital encouraged his family to donate organs so that they would give new life to four other patients who fighting for life with organ failures. After receiving family’s consent, his organs were retrieved by the doctors on Thursday late evening. 
 
