AHMEDABAD: The   (RBI) on Wednesday submitted before the Gujarat high court that   Limited, which had moved a petition in the court challenging the insolvency proceedings initiated against it, had misled the court and made false statements in its plea.

 The submission came in connection with the petition filed by Essar earlier this month against the insolvency proceedings initiated by National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT).
 
 Arguing before HC judge S G Shah, senior counsel for RBI, D J Khambata, submitted that the minutes of the meeting between Essar Steel and its lenders revealed that the company was “far from reaching any restructuring settlement” and Essar Steel was also aware of insolvency proceedings initiated against it at the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT).
 
 Khambata further argued that Essar Steel misled the court and suppressed facts to get interim relief in the case. “The company claimed that it was kept in the dark about insolvency proceedings, but on June 22 the SBI had called LJF (Lenders’ Joint Forum) meeting and in that, resolution professionals (liquidators) were present and had made their presentation. 
 
 Essar officials were also present in the meeting and they had even made their presentation on restructuring. So, it is incorrect to say that they were unaware of the insolvency proceedings,” argued Khambata.
 
 Essar Steel had a debt of Rs 45,655 crore, of which Rs 31,671 crore had turned NPAs for banks by March 31, 2016. This had increased to Rs 32,864 crore by March 31 this year. 
 
 Khambata said the motive of the proceedings at the NCLT was to recover “the maximum value in a minimum time-bound manner”.
 
 “The IBC (Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code) is not for winding up a company but to resolve and restructure to avoid winding up,” Khambata said.
 
 Arguing on behalf of Essar, advocate   said that the RBI directives came at a time when the company was almost close to reaching a settlement with the RBI about the default amount.
 
 “There was no need for the RBI to give directions to SBI to initiate insolvency proceedings against us. The RBI has not clarified how classification of accounts was done. 
 
 How can you put an insolvent company in the same bracket with a company running operations,” argued Thakore. “The company’s operational performance improved significantly during FY16-17. Since the RBI gave directions to consider NPAs as on March 31, 2016, improvement in performance is not considered, which is wrong,” Essar’s lawyer submitted before the court. The hearing will continue on Thursday.
 
