NAGPUR: Over 16 years after a Jaripatka-based organization filed a case alleging excess valuation of property tax by Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), the Nagpur bench of   has directed municipal commissioner   to hear its grievances and decide on its representation within four weeks.

 However, on Monday, when the petitioner approached the NMC chief, he refused to hear them out, despite clear directives from the court. He instead clarified that a hearing would be held only if NMC’s rule book permits.
 
 The petitioner — Nagpur Municipal Corporation Housing Tax Grievance Redressal Committee — through its member Shankar Chetumal Gulani had claimed indiscriminate and arbitrary imposition of property tax by the civic body. He claimed that for a two-storey building the corporation had charged Rs5,374 taxes in 1997.
 
 “As the matter remained pending for more than 16 years, we grant petitioner leave to make appropriate representation pointing out instances of abuse or misuse of power in assessment of property tax. We direct municipal commissioner to take suitable decision on such representation within four weeks after its receipt,” a division bench comprising justices   and Rohit Deo stated, before disposing of the plea.
 
 Petitioner’s counsel   said the norms of assessment for levying property tax are not known to the common citizens, and therefore he obtained them through RTI query. The NMC raised demand against property owners and told them that they will reduce tax after consultations. However, civic officials later manipulated the taxes, he claimed.
 
 He said NMC retrospectively charged the tax from 1986, even though the assessment was done in 1997. This is despite the fact that the petitioner paid regular tax from 1986 to 1997 as per the corporation’s demand.
 
 The petitioner claimed that NMC took no action against big tax defaulters like businessmen and politicians, but only harasses general public. Additionally, its officials ignored huge vacant plots belonging to the rich, and only target the middle class. It was being done in connivance with civic officials, who had amassed wealth by granting undue benefits to rich and influential persons, he claimed.
 
 “The grievance is about arbitrariness or high handedness regarding assessment and levy of property tax. In reply, NMC denied all allegations. On November 21, 2003, additional commissioner (assessment) submitted a report on specific cases. It shows house number and ward number in relation to which the study has been undertaken. But they have not dealt with the specific cases mentioned therein,” the court said.
 
 After the civic chief refused to entertain the petitioner, the latter handed over a representation to him, stating that denial of hearing to them would be non-compliance with high court orders.
 
