 seems to be loosening its grip on the cutting table. After reportedly letting   flash his butt in ' ' even as 23 kisses slipped through their scissors unharmed, the board has gone relatively easy again, on  's ' ', which features   in the lead role. A Hindi adaptation of Srijit's Bengali film, 'Rajkahini', 'Begum Jaan' is the story of Partition survivors who defy nations to save their homes. An elated Srijit informed Mirror that despite the bold subject of his film, CBFC has agreed to give it an 'A' certificate without any cuts but have asked to mute or replace a few cuss words.

  
  
 "I visited the Central CBFC office for the first time. They have agreed to give us an 'A' certificate with no cuts at all, if we mute or replace certain cuss words like 'mad****od' and 'bhe****d' which we have agreed to do. I will take the final call on what to replace them with when I see the film in one flow. In fact, they even mentioned to me that they are usually very strict with words, but they have let certain words pass in our film owing to the context in which they have been said," informs Srijit, adding that the board has asked them to replace 'saali' with another word in one of the sequences as they didn't want a cuss word to be used before the word 'azaadi'.
 
 According to the 39-year-old filmmaker, the team will receive the certificate once all the documentation is in place. "I didn't have to face many cuts for 'Rajkahini' either, as the regional CBFC had understood the spirit of the film. I think with 'Befikre' and 'Begum Jaan' the CBFC has become more liberal and are interpreting the guidelines in a much wider spectrum," the filmmaker says, adding that 'Begum Jaan' is currently in the post-production stage.
 
 Vidya who plays the madam of a brothel had begun shooting for the film in mid-June last year in Jharkhand followed by another schedule in Delhi. The 38-year-old actress had taken up horse riding and was undergoing vocal training to modulate her voice to suit the character as part of her prep for the film.
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
