I am a director first, an actress later,“ is how she defines herself. And Bengali cinema boasts of several gems that feature her in both roles. So, when we caught up with   for a candid chat about her next film -a casting coup of sorts that stars  ,   and herself as the protagonists -she also sounded happy about sharing the screen with   again after a long gap. Excerpts from the chat:

 
 
 
 It's extremely shameful! It's a direct breach of freedom of expression. Is this governance? The administration of that state should take responsibility for this kind of hooliganism and punish the culprits.
 
 
 
 No, I haven't, as I was too busy tending to certain medical problems in the family . But I'll surely visit Presidency to see my name up there. It's an honour that they found my name worthy enough to be engraved next to famous alumni of the university .
 
 
 
 (Smiles) Yes, we are. But I'm a director first, not an actor, so I give my nod to acting only once in a while. It will be my first film after Chotushkone. Suddenly , at this age, I'm getting too many acting offers -I really don't know why...Tell us about Sonata. We hear it's an
 
 
 
 
 Yes, it is. And it's the psychological exploration of three unmarried women -Aruna Chaturvedi (me), a professor, banker Dolon Sen (Shabana Azmi) and journalist Subhadra Parekh (Lillete Dubey) -who are facing mid life crises. Sonata revolves around these three friends and the complex interactions between them. Through it, I've attempted to explore various aspects of femininity . And to make that exploration wider in its scope, I intro duced two minor characters apart from the protagonist trio -a maid, thereby cutting across class borders, and a transgender woman. These charac ters weren't there in the play. I also changed the ending by bringing in a tragedy of global magnitude into the lives of these women. That incident not only places their personal prob lems in perspective, but also strength ens their bond of friendship.
 
 
 
 Yes, it did. In fact, Parama too celebrated the friendship between Shila and Parama in a way .But in Sonata, it's on a larger scale. We keep celebrating male bonding in films, but hardly watch those that celebrate the same between women.
 
 
 
 
 Oh, yes! Shabana trusts me as a director. Even Lillete didn't hear the script before signing on.That's a huge responsibility as a director, as there's so much of trust and confidence in me. But again, they know I won't ask them to play meaningless roles. In fact, if they don't like the script after reading it, they are free to say no; that transparency is there.
 
 
 
 Aruna, a professor of Indology and Sanskrit, is highly educated and well-travelled. She's still rather beautiful, but her reserved personality and conservative thinking can make her come off as a prude. Though deeply affectionate, she struggles to express her feelings. On the contrary , Dolon, a highly-paid banker, is bubbly , expressive and affectionate and keeps displaying it by touching, hugging and kissing her friends. She's plump and has been trying to lose weight with little success. The third, Subhadra, believes in living life to the fullest and is almost ageless, or pretends to be so. She wears jazzy clothes, showing off her figure, and lives with her boyfriend, with whom she has a stormy and abusive relationship. She seems to be living the high life, but when asked if she's happy , she's at a loss for answers.
 
 
 
 
 I saw Mahesh Elkunchwar's play and found it captivating. Just three characters in one space was quite enchanting. I didn't feel bored even once, as there were light-hearted moments, deeply lyrical moments, fights, friend ship, tears, emotional ups and downs, sense of betrayal, love interest of the past and much more. So when I thought of making a small-budget film, I thought why not adapt the play? And it was a challenge to use the space in such a way that it doesn't become monotonous in the film.
 
 
 
 
 Absolutely . I act most of the time on the producers' insistence. Even in this case, I was considering other actors for Aruna's role, but they wouldn't relent. I believe they wanted a saleable combination of actors like Shabana Azmi, Lillete Dubey and Aparna Sen.Quite a casting coup, isn't it?
 
 
 
 Yes, but he'll hardly be seen, as his track will come as a back story .(Laughs) In fact, Kalyan says his roles in Zulfiqar and Sonata are so short that if one blinks during the screening, they will miss him! I wanted someone who will look like an artist and is reasonably good looking and so, Sohag (Sen) and Shabana insisted that we take Kalyan on board.
 
 
 
 
 Of course I'll direct a Bengali film, though I don't know when.I'm working on scripts and want it to be a small-budget film. But the audience for Bengali films is limited and in no way can we sell our films abroad. So, the theatrical recovery is limited.But I hope things will look up now, as we have the scope to release films online.
 
 
 
 The producers themselves said the film was too early for its time and the audience was not ready for it. There was also a smear campaign that created a bad impression... There were people who bad mouthed it. I know who did it, but I don't care, nor can I help it.Moreover, the film was projected as a typical Dev-starrer, but it was not so; it was an experiment. So when Dev's fans went to watch it, they didn't like it. But there were many who loved it. And many among them were intellectuals, whose opinion I respect a lot.
 
