NAGPUR: Among the 1,135 candidates in the civic polls are around 500 women, some re-contesting and many who are in the fray for the first time.

 Twenty-one-year-old Puneshwari Shahu, who is contesting from ward no. 4, may well be the youngest contestant this time. Enamoured by politics since her teenage years, Shahu chose to join the newly formed   rather than a mainstream one. “I have no previous political connections, big parties shy away from welcoming a fresher,” says Shahu.
 
 Social worker Nutan Rewatkar has been connected to politics since more than a decade, earlier as city chief of NCP’s women wing and now as a senior party member. Though this is her debut in the civic polls, Rewatkar is confident of her victory. “My opponents are not first-timers but I feel they lack the public support that I am getting. Earlier, I would solve people’s problems with the help of corporators. Now, I want to take the power in my hands,” says Rewatkar.
 
 The women’s brigade is a potpourri of candidates — be it in terms of education qualifications, age or financial position. With total assets of over Rs31 crore, sitting corporator Sushma Chaudhary appears to be the richest woman candidate. More than her deep pockets, she feels it is her alliance with the ruling party that will ensure her win. “My experience as a corporator was both good and bad. I hope to complete whatever works I couldn’t do during the last tenure,” says Chaudhary.
 
 Interestingly, many female candidates happen to be wives of former corporators. Parineeta Fuke, wife of MLC and two-time corporator Parinay Fuke, is hoping to meet the bar set by her husband. A PhD, she feels her strong educational background will be a huge advantage. “Educated candidates are always a boon, they are well aware of government schemes and benefits and ensure that they reach the masses,” says Parineeta, who “wants to take her husband’s work forward after winning”.
 
 Strong educational background need not always fetch you a ticket.  , a PhD from  , withdrew her form at the last minute after not finding a place in any party. When she contested in 2007, she lost to candidates without much formal education. “Running as an independent is difficult. Parties should give preference to qualified candidates as they have problem-solving skills and better understanding of issues,” she says.
 
 Anita Sakharkar, 48, who is contesting from ward no. 34, begs to differ. Due to some family problems, Anita could not study. Though she is associated with a mainstream political party since a decade, she did not get a ticket to contest  . “Rather than giving up, I decided to contest independently. I may not be educated but have the capability to understand civic issues. A candidate should not be judged on the basis of education or financial background, but purely on his connect with the public,” says Anita. 
 
 However, not all women in the fray are as competent or confident. Wives contesting elections on behalf of husbands is a common phenomenon in Indian politics, says political analyst Anjali Gaidhane. “In most cases, women are dummy politicians. They are like puppets in the hands of their husbands, who, for whatsoever reasons, are not eligible to contest. Politics still is a very difficult game for women. They need a mentor or a godfather to survive,” Gaidhane adds. 
 
 
