Indore: Local police on Saturday arrested 11 people for their involvement in selling illegal firearms.

 Following instructions issued by in-charge DIG,  , the crime branch conducted raids on specific tip offs, nabbing 11 miscreants and recovering illegal firearms from them.
 
 The miscreants were identified as Deekak Balai of Scheme 71, Rajesh   of Labriya Bheru area, Ashish Harijan of Chamaari Compound, Vicky Paal of Dudh Dairy Colony, Sandesh Gorele of Juni Indore, Gajju Ingle of Raoji Bazaar, Vishwadip Tayade of Malharganj and Vikash Rotele of Jabran Colony.
 
 Shailesh Hatila, Saawan Nigwal and Vicky Nigwal, all three residents of Musakhedi area were also among the illegal firearm traders arrested.
 
 “During preliminary interrogations, Deepak revealed that the weapons were brought from   in Dhar district. On the basis of his information, police confiscated four pistols which he had sold for Rs 10,000 each. Cops also seized a motorcycle with a bogus registration number (MP11 BC1712) that was used to transport the firearms,” Mishra said.
 
 In a different incident, police busted a gang involved in lifting two-wheelers from different parts of the city.
 
 “Acting on a tip off, a team led by Tukoganj police station in-charge,   caught Jaiprakash alias Golu Soni of Pipalwala Chowk in Mangaliya area. During interrogations, the accused confessed to lifting 13 two-wheelers with his partner   of Amartekari area” Mishra said.
 
 On the basis of information they gave, the police confiscated all the stolen vehicles that were lifted from Tukoganj, MG Road, Pandharinath, Raoji Bazaar, Vijay Nagar, Sadar Bazaar, Palasia and Sanyogitaganj. Further investigations were still on.
 
 City police also claimed to have busted a gang involved in selling cannabis. Following a specific tip off, the crime branch arrested two persons, Kalu alias Ravi Bourasi and Akashy Yadav, both residents of Gotu Maharaj Ki Chaal.
 
 “They have confessed to bringing ganja from Barwani district to sell it here. The police confiscated 20.5 kg of ganja from their possession. Kalu has a record of committing crimes in MIG, Tukoganj and Pardeshipura police station areas. Further investigations were underway,” Mishra said.
 
 
