PATNA: The Union government on Thursday submitted an affidavit at the   stating that rehabilitation works on the   would be completed in 42 months.

 The Centre also committed before the HC that the detailed project report for another four-lane bridge parallel to the setu had been finalized and construction work on the same would begin soon.
 
 The court was also informed that the onus of completion of works on the road deck of the Digha-Sonepur bridge is solely on the state government. Accordingly, the division bench of acting Chief Justice Hemant Gupta and Justice Dinesh Singh sought a report from the state government with regard to completion of works on the Digha-Sonepur bridge to be submitted on the next hearing in the PIL slated to be held on January 27.
 
 Apparently, the work with regard to construction of approach road on either side of the Digha-Sonepur bridge is delayed due to land acquisition issues. The Bihar Rajya Pul Nirman Nigam Ltd has been assigned the work to construct approach road on Sonepur-end, while the Bihar State Road Development Corporation Ltd is constructing the approach road on Patna-end.
 
 Petitioner advocate Dinesh Khuripwala had filed the PIL in the HC in 2014 requesting the court to direct the Centre as well as the state government to take immediate steps for removal of perennial traffic jams on the 5.75km-long bridge. The petitioner had stated that around one-eighth of the bridge is not being utilized due to damaged pillars and spans.
 
 Built in 1982, the setu started showing damages from 1991. Over Rs 200 crore has been spent on maintenance of the bridge from 2004. The setu is being used in a limited manner at present because of ongoing repair work on its western flank between the 43rd and 46th pillars. Recently, a viaduct of the bridge got damaged on June 10 which led to chaos.
 
 Additional solicitor general SD Sanjay on Thursday stated before the court that the superstructure of the entire road deck of the bridge is going to be rehabilitated using steel frames. Incidentally, Prime Minister   is slated to commission the rehabilitation works on Gandhi Setu through videoconferencing on January 15.
 
 The setu rehabilitation work is being executed by AFCONS Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd, which has been roped in for the project by the ministry of road, transport and highways. The existing concrete road deck of the 34-year-old bridge is proposed to be dismantled and steel frames are to be erected under the proposed rehabilitation works utilizing an estimated outlay of Rs 1,742.01 crore.
 
 Meanwhile, the road construction department has claimed that one pontoon bridge underneath the setu would be ready by February and another would be made ready by March. The state government had committed last year to erect two pontoon bridges underneath the setu to divert vehicular traffic.
 
 
