From winning the   
  in 2009 to singing two tracks in 
 , singer and   programmer   is all pumped up. His song from the film, 
 , has been on the music charts for weeks now. 
  caught up with Nakul and discussed music, working with   and his upcoming projects. Excerpts:

 
 
 Raghu Dixit asked me if I wanted to work on this film and I couldn’t say no to him. He has his own taste in music which is different, and that’s what we have tried to incorporate in
 . We have tried to produce something different that will stand out from the rest. Scoring the background music with Raghu and his team has been great. I have been getting good reviews for the music for the film.
 
 
 
 Life changed completely after Sa Re Ga Ma Pa. I began taking music seriously after I was on the show. Now, I can see where I want to go and can judge for myself. Before the show, I knew that I could sing, but was never serious about it. I met Raghu also while I was a part of it.
 
 
 I had no idea what I wanted, and I still don’t know (laughs). I want to be called a musician. I know vocals is my strength, but I also like arranging music and programming. After I quit my job at an MNC, I joined Rahman’s School of Music, and that’s where it all began for me. Then Sa Re Ga Ma Pa happened (Nakul was a part of both the Kannada and Hindi format of the show). I have sung in most South Indian languages, except Malayalam.
 
 
 
 Working with Raghu is great. Whenever we are together, all we do is talk about music. Our work is music driven; it is an interactive process with him. We always think about music and how it should be evolving. In some ways, the way we work is similar — we don’t get up unless we finish what we are working on. Plus, whenever I am with Raghu, there is no shortage of good food (laughs). Raghu is a complete foodie, and so am I. We have the hunger for good music and good food as well.
 
 
 
 My most memorable collaboration has been getting into Rahman’s vocal jazz band. It was a completely different experience for me. That collaboration was special since it was the first time I was exposed to jazz. Getting into Rahman’s world is a different experience altogether. I would love to collaborate with Hans Zimmer, who has scored the background music for films like The Dark Knight and Pirates Of The Caribbean.
 
 
 
 Currently, I am working with Raghu for another Kannada film. Apart from that, there are some other Kannada films in the pipeline as well.
 
 Sandra.Fernandes@timesgroup.com
 
