HYDERABAD: The Telangana tourism department is all set to hold a two-day international conference on '  in Telangana 2017' on February 23 and 24.
The Telangana chief minister   will inaugurate the event, which will be attended by international delegates from 16 countries such as Thailand, Myanmar, Malaysia, USA and Vietnam among many others and 171 delegates from across India.
 
 Addressing the media persons at a press conference on Tuesday, Telangana minister for tourism   said the event is aimed to promote the Buddhavanam project.“The event will attract several tourists from across the world.Apart from the Buddhavanam project, the Telangana government is keen on developing a Buddhist circuit by including Buddhist centres across the state,“ said Chandulal.
 
 The Buddhavanam project is being taken up at Nagarjuna Sagar by the Central government, under which a great monument including museum, auditorium and meditation centre is being built. The dome of monument will have different types of Buddha sculptures. “As part of this,   is also expediting the project which is also a theme park destination. It will focus on the Buddhist heritage of the state. It is nearing completion in the next six months,“ said Christina Z Chongthu, Telangana State Tourism Development Corporation MD, hoping that the event will place Telangana prominently in the Buddhist circuit.
 
 The event will kick off with chanting by Sang at Buddha statue at Tank Bund followed by exhibition on Buddhist theme, presentation by tourism department on Buddhavanam and sessions on Telangana Buddhism. On Day 2, panel discussions on 'different countries on Buddhist history and experiences of different countries on Buddhism' will be held followed by cultural program in the evening.
 
 The celebrations also includes field visits to Buddhavanam project, Nagarjunakonda. The tourism department will also unveil a documentary film on Buddhism in Telangana along with art works and handicrafts, Buddhist theme photo exhibition and book stalls.
 
