NEW DELHI: It was a successful World Cup for India by all accounts, despite finishing way behind table toppers China.

  The hosts bagged five medals, including one gold, to secure the fifth position in the medals tally; China had 12 medals -six gold and six silver. But what's positive about India's performance is that 15 of the 45 shooters made it to the finals in different events to win those five medals.
 
  The numbers are impressive since Indian shooting is in a rebuilding process following the Rio Olympic debacle less than a year back. Many established names were replaced by relatively new ones for the event and the squad returned with one of the best medal hauls for India in a World Cup. Leading the charge was Jitu Rai, the diminutive army man, who bagged two medals, including a gold, in pistol shooting. Indians tasted success across the formats -they had six shooters in rifle event finals, five in pistol finals and four in shot gun finals. Pistol shooter won most medals – three - while rifle and shot gun shooters won one each. Jitu Rai and   also won the gold in 10m air pistol mixed gender team event, though the medal wasn't added to the table since it was conducted as a test event.
 
    set the tone for the hosts with a bronze in women's 10m air rifle on the opening day of the competition. Mentored by Olympic medallist Gagan Narang, Pooja finished ahead of the likes of Najmeh Khedmati, the reigning Asian Games gold medallist from Iran.
 
  Ankur Mittal sizzled in double trap, an event in which India won their first ever medal in shooting - a silver in 2004 Athens Games through Rajyavarshan Singh Rathore. Mittal finished second, just one point behind winner James Willett. Jitu Rai came back from a disappointing Olympics to the win two medals - a gold and a bronze.  's silver in 50m pistol behind Jitu made it sweeter. This was Amanpreet's first international event in over three years.
 
  Sheeraz Sheikh's qualification for skeet signalled the slow but steady growth of the country in the event which was considered India's weak spot just two years back. There were some heartbreaks too.   was within striking distance of a medal in men's trap but a lapse in concentration saw him miss the bronze by a whisker.
 
  (NRAI) president Raninder Singh said he was happy with the performance of the team and expected them to do better in coming events. "I have no regrets about the performance. If I have any regrets it has to be women's 25m pistol event. We don't seem to be doing well there," Raninder said.
 
  He said that India has sone well as far as performance in skeet is concerned. "We have improved in the last one and half year since we appointed Ennio Falco as coach of skeet team. But still we have a long way to go."
 
  Though Heena Sidhu failed to win a medal, the NRAI president felt she was going to be a key member of the squad considering that mixed gender event will be a medal event from October. "She shot very well in the mixed event final."
 
 
  Angad Vir Singh Bajwa and   of the US won the mixed team skeet medal at the ISSF World Cup on Friday . Angad and Haley beat the pairing of Robert Johnson and Caitlin Connor 28-26 in the bronze medal match of the test event. Hayden Stewart, partnering Kimberly Rhode of the US, won the gold defeating Argentine siblings Federico and Melisa Gill 29-26 in final.
 
