Patna:   national general secretary (organization) Ram Lal on Sunday instructed the party’s MPs and legislators to take the alleged “corruption of RJD boss Lalu Prasad’s family” to people and make it a “big issue” in the state to strengthen the party’s political stakes in Bihar with eye on the 2019 parliamentary elections.

 In the same vein, he also instructed them to speak in one voice. “All should speak in one voice on the issue. There should be no confusion, no different stand on it,” party sources quoted Lal as telling the MPs and state legislators during his interactive session with them. 
 
 “Yes, the corruption of the Lalu family is a big issue. But it has to be taken to the people of the state in a big way. Do whatever is needed to succeed in it,” said Lal at the state BJP headquarters here on Sunday.
 
 Among those present at the meeting were Union ministers Radha Mohan Singh and Ram Kripal Yadav, as well as former deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi, who, in the last three months, has raised one or the other issue related to alleged land deals and money laundering through shell companies, involving directly or indirectly Lalu, his wife and former CM  , their minister sons   and  , as well as their daughter and Rajya Sabha member Misa Bharti and her husband, among others. 
 
 Ultimately, the CBI lodged an FIR in one case on July 5 and conducted raids on Friday morning at 12 premises in five towns, including Patna and Delhi. “Earlier, it was only me, now they have implicated everyone in my family, even my children. I will not buckle and fight it out to the end,” said Lalu on the day.
 
 Sunday was the concluding day of Lal’s three-day tour of the state to oversee preparations being made to strengthen the party’s presence at 62,000 polling booths. Lal, after arriving here on Friday, addressed youths at Muzaffarpur and then had daylong sessions with the party’s state office-bearers and district presidents on Saturday. 
 
 When contacted, senior state BJP functionary and MLC Vinod Narayan Jha said, “Our general secretary’s straight instruction was that people from all walks of life might be coming to meet MPs and legislators, but it was more important how many families they visited and how many people they met.”
 
 As Jha said, Lal also told them to ensure that the party’s booth-level workers sat in a meeting along with other people at the respective booths to listen to the PM’s ‘Man ki baat’ aired on the radio. 
 
 
