Days after it was reported that a   brutally thrashed a   for taking a   of them on duty,   swung into action to get to the bottom of the incident.

 In fact, instructions have also been issued by top brass to all traffic policemen, ordering them to allow the public to take videos or photos of them while on duty, while encouraging citizens to come forth with evidence of cops who are not doing their job properly, too. On Wednesday, deputy commissioner of police (traffic) Pravin Mundhe ordered an inquiry into the complaint filed by Sahakarnagar resident, Hemant Marda, two days after Mirror reported the trauma he claimed to undergo in the article, ‘Cops thrash citizen for recording their blunders on duty’.
 
 Marda, 48, had approached police with a complaint against the group of traffic cops attached with the Dattawadi traffic division, saying that he had been stopped by them near Wadgaon Budruk Bridge in the Sinhagad Road area, to be fined for jumping the signal. While Marda paid up, he felt the policemen were taking selective action and he had been wrongly penalised, so he began taking a video of them at the chowky where they took him. He alleged that they all took objection to his actions, dragged him to the division office and thrashed him soundly over there.
 
 Marda said that he had submitted a complaint online to Pune police at first, but no cognisance was taken of it for at least a week. However, after the Mirror report, an inquiry has finally been initiated into the incident.
 
 When Pune Mirror contacted Mundhe on Wednesday, he shared, “We have received the complaint and taken cognisance of it. I have ordered an inquiry. Senior police officials will record the statements of both the complainant and the cops he has accused. Further action will be taken after a detailed report is filed.”
 
 Marda was also called in to record his statement. He shared, “I was called by traffic police on Tuesday evening, and a cop of the rank of inspector recorded my statement. I have given them detailed information about what happened that day. They said they will call me if they need more details.”
 
 Meanwhile,   have also asked staff to not stop anyone if they are video recording cops on duty. Mundhe added, “I have given orders to all divisions to concentrate on work and not stop citizens from video recording cops on duty. If personnel are doing their duty honestly, they should have no problem with such video evidence.”
 
 He also said, “I also appeal to citizens to take videos of traffic offenses or cops neglecting duty. These can be sent to Pune police on our WhatsApp number.”
 
