NEW DELHI: Australian captain   hit his 20th century but   took four wickets as Australia were bowled out for 300 runs in their first innings on the first day of the fourth Test at the HPCA Stadium in Dharamsala on Saturday.

 At stumps, India were yet to get off the mark in their first innings after batting for one over.
 
 Continuing his excellent run with the bat, Smith became the first Australian skipper to score three centuries in a series in India as the visitors tried their best to seize the initiative but were kept in check by some superb bowling from debutant Kuldeep. India's first ever left-arm wrist spinner bamboozled Australian batsmen after lunch snaring three quick wickets to put them in a spot of bother, who were later rescued by a good rearguard action by wicket-keeper Matthew Wade's 57.   scalped two while Ravichandran Ashwin, Ravindra Jadeja and   took a wicket each. 
 
 Wade hit a six and four boundaries in his knock but was running out of partners as Kuldeep took a good return catch to dismiss Pat Cummins and Steve O'Keefe was run out. Wade was clean bowled by Jadeja while going for a slog sweep and Bhuvneshwar had Nathan Lyon caught by Cheteshwar Pujara at mid-wicket off the second new ball.
 
 Kuldeep had a dream debut snaring three Australian wickets with his superb guile and variations. Kuldeep struck in the fourth over after lunch as   edged to first slip for captain   to take the catch. Warner erred in reading the line of the ball and stayed back in the crease to a fuller delivery that was pitched around off stump and tried to smash it through the off side but ended up edging it as Rahane took a fine catch. Warner hit a six and 8 fours in his score of 56 runs and added 134 runs with Smith for the second wicket.
 
 The other Yadav, Umesh, then had Shaun Marsh (4) caught behind by Wriddhiman Saha down the leg side to reduce Australia to 153/3.
 
 Having tasted blood, Kuldeep took his second wicket when he clean bowled Peter Handscomb (8) by spinning the ball through the gap between bat and pad. Handscomb came on the front foot to go for a drive but the ball drifted away to make the Aussie play away from his body creating the gap in the process and the ball turned back and went through it to crash into the stumps to place Australia at 168/4. Yadav then bamboozled Glenn Maxwell with a googly and shattered his stumps. Maxwell failed to pick the wrong'un that was bowled with a scrambled seam and stayed back in his crease for the flick. But the ball turned towards off after pitching around middle and leg to leave Maxwell squared up and the ball turned to flick his pad on the way to the top of off. Australia 178/5.
 
 But even as Aussie wickets kept falling, Smith at the other end thwarted whatever the Indians threw at him and reached his 20th century off 150 balls, continuing his excellent run in the series. Ashwin took his first wicket in the penultimate over before tea when Rahane took a good low catch at first slip to dismiss Smith for 111 - a superb knock that was studded with 14 fours. Smith's scalp was Ashwin's 79th wicket in 2016-17 - the most by any bowler in a season, going past Dale Steyn's 78 in 2007-08.
 
 Earlier, the hosts' hopes of winning the Test series against Australia were dealt a major blow when an injured   was ruled out and Rahane became India's 33rd Test captain. Kuldeep became the first Chinaman bowler to play for India and Bhuvneshwar Kumar replaced   in the team. Australia retained their playing XI.
 
 Opting to bat after winning the toss, Warner got a life on the first ball of the match when he was dropped by   at third slip off Bhuvneshwar. But Umesh gave India the first breakthrough in the second over of the match when he castled Matt Renshaw with a brilliant inswinger.
 
 In walked Smith to join Warner in the middle and as has been the case right through the series, started playing his shots from the word go. Using his unorthodox stance and feet movement, Smith attacked the Indian seamers at will to bring up the Australian 50 in 9.5 overs. Smith's attacking strokeplay allowed Warner to settle down at the other end and the 50-run stand between the two Aussie mainstays was brought up off 65 balls. Smith went on to reach his 21st Test 50 off 67 balls.
 
 Though he was initially troubled by Ashwin and Jadeja, Smith didn't let the Indian spin duo get on top and continued to play his shots reading the length perfectly by using his feet against flighted deliveries and staying back in the crease to anything that was pitched short.
 
 The Australian 100 came up in 24.2 overs and Warner regained his confidence too and smashed a six off Ashwin over long-off. The 100-run stand between Warner and Smith came off 147 balls and Warner reached his first fifty of the series off 72 balls, reaching the milestone with a boundary to third man off Kuldeep who bowled just two overs before lunch.
 
 
 India 0/0 vs Australia 300 all out (Smith 111, Wade 57; Kuldeep 4/68) at stumps on Day 1.
 
