NEW DELHI: Chasing a total of 169 against   at the Kotla on Friday, Pune had just lost the wicket of Ben Stokes for 33 - with the score at 125/4 - when MS Dhoni walked in to bat. He was greeted with loud cheers from the thousands in the stands but it wasn't Dhoni's day. Pune fell short by seven runs, managing only 161/7.

 It was a perfect platform for Dhoni to come out and finish the game with some big shots, but by then the asking rate was too high and he was run out, which happens rarely. To be fair, the former India captain didn't get too many deliveries to settle down, unlike   (64 off 45 balls), who couldn't take his team over the rope. In the last over, Tiwary did hit back-to-back sixes off Delhi's fast bowler Pat Cummins, but it still wasn't enough.
 
 With this loss, Pune's hopes of a playoff berth still hang in the balance, while Daredevils - who are already out - played the perfect party pooper.
 
 Pune skipper Steve Smith started off in spirited fashion and played some exquisite shots off both the front and back foot after Delhi skipper   castled Pune opener Ajinkya Rahane with a beautifully bowled inswinger. Zaheer was ably supported by Mohammad Shami and Shahbaz Nadeem. Zaheer also claimed the wicket of Rahul Tripathi and could have got a third scalp if deputy   hadn't dropped Tiwary on 40. This was Tiwary's second life after having been dropped on 34.
 
 With the bat, however, Nair was a man transformed. Since his triple century in Test cricket against England towards the end of last year, Nair hadn't been among the runs. He showed his potential in bits and pieces for the Delhi Daredevils and even came up the batting order to make an impact, but couldn't prove his worth. The only score that showed him in good light was the 39 against Sunrisers Hyderabad at the beginning of this month.
 
 However, on Friday, Nair finally came into his own, scoring 64 off 45 balls and helping Delhi get to a score of 168/8.
 
 The hosts opted to bat on a pitch that was conducive to stroke-making, but they lost two quick wickets. Nair, however, didn't allow the momentum to drift, playing shots along with Rishabh Pant to keep the scoreboard ticking.
 
 Not that Nair had to manufacture shots. He had a very natural flow and played all across the park. Pant too was aggressive and made a strokeful 36. But the Delhi run rate, which was hovering around nine runs per overs, dipped a little in the middle of the innings after a brilliant catch from MS Dhoni cut short Marlon Samuels' stay.
 
 
