AURANGABAD: Killari and its surrounding villages in   registered mild tremors at 8.38 pm on Wednesday,   and bringing back memories of the deadly 1993  . However, no damage to life or property was reported.

 The quake measuring 1.6 on the Richter scale with epicentre at 10 km below the ground was also felt in nearby villages, including Sarodi, Ghubal and Lamjan. People rushed out of their homes and slept in open areas, authorities said.
 
 “While no seismic activity was recorded in Latur for the past three years, the latest tremor was recorded on November 1 last year,” Saqueb Osmani, Latur district disaster management officer, told TOI.
 
 The inhabitants of the affected villages heard loud noises from the earth, following which the chose to sleep outside, he added. 
 
 The tremors sparked off rumours overs its intensity and possible after-shocks. People started forwarding information received from unconfirmed sources through social media sites like WhatsApp to others without verifying it. The panic situation, however, came down gradually, the authorities said.
 
 Parts of Osmanabad district bordering Ausa taluka also felt the tremors. “Reports came in about tremors having been experienced in parts of the district,” Osmanabad district disaster management officer Vrushali Telore said.
 
 “Since Osmanabad district borders Ausa taluka of Latur district, a few areas might have felt it. We, however, officially confirm that only Killari reported earthquake,” she said. 
 
 An earthquake, the deadliest Maharashtra, had struck around 3.56 am on September 30, 1993, ravaging nearly 52 villages and killing and injuring hundreds of people and inflicting enormous damage to properties. 
 
 Meanwhile, locals in parts of Latur and Osmanabad have said that they have been hearing strange noises from the ground. Some parts of the region have been reporting noises which are too loud at times. 
 
 Experts, however, allayed the fears associated with these incidents. “The groundwater table has been witnessing changes, following a good monsoon after two consecutive years that experienced drought-like situation. The cavities inside the earth are getting filled with water and causing flow of air, which is said to be producing noises,” disaster management officials said.
 
