BENGALURU: With his grandfather   and father Rustomji Byramji being racehorse trainers, it was only natural that   followed in their footsteps. Byramji was 21 years old when he got his trainer’s licence in Mumbai in May 1955. It didn't take much time for him to achieve his maiden success.

 In January 1956, Byramji trained the SA Poonawalla-owned Lingmala en route to four straight victories. From there on, he went to create a record in the history of Indian racing, saddling nearly 3,200 winners including a record 230 classics in a career spanning over six decades.
 
 The veteran’s long innings ended earlier this year when he decided not to renew his licence. "Having been in this profession for nearly seven decades, I cannot stay away from horses. I want to spend more time at the stables with the horses," said Byramji, who will be felicitated by the Bangalore Turf Club, Karnataka Trainers Association and Karnataka Racehorse Owners Association on Sunday.
 
 The 83-year-old said he has been lucky to be associated with some of the best owners who gave him some of the finest horses to train. "If I have achieved anything it is only because of the owners who trusted me. I have worked with many good owners who have been supportive even when their horses hit a rough patch," the country’s most successful trainer said.
 
 After emerging as the champion trainer for nine consecutive years in Mumbai, Byramji moved to Bengaluru in 1965. His successful run continued here too as he finished the season as the champion trainer. "Bengaluru has been lucky for me in many ways," he said.
 
 Byramji, who was married to Olympian swimmer Dolly, has won the Indian Derby a record 11 times with two hat-tricks studding his effort. The first hat-trick came with Squanderer (1976), Manitou (1977) and Comanche (1978) and the second with Astronomic (1993), Littleover (1994) and Elusive Pimpernel (1995). "My best was winning 15 classics in a year including five in Chennai with five different horses," recalled Byramji, who also holds the record of 12 Turf Invitation Cups including three hat-tricks.
 
 Prince  , Comanche, Squanderer, Mantou, Almanac, Track Lightning, Adler, Camineto and Elusive Pimpernel were among the top horses that gave Byramji victories in classics.
 
