Mumbai: India Inc's recent struggle to revive the stalled investment cycle has been well chronicled.   India chief executive   says multinational corporations are revving up the elusive   story even as domestic heavyweights remain sluggish. India is now among the top five markets for many MNCs, prompting them to bet long-term investments commensurate with opportunities in the world's fastest growing major economy, Jhaveri—who steers the most profitable foreign bank in the country—tells TOI in an interview. Edited excerpts:

 
 
 I think it is important to analyse the current credit growth that the banking industry is witnessing in the right context. Yes, the headline numbers show low growth, but these numbers do not tell the entire story. First, corporate India has raised significant larger amounts from the corporate bond and commercial paper markets, which does not reflect in credit growth. Second, if you decompose the 15-16% credit growth in the last decade, a concentration existed in 4-5   and 15-20 corporate houses. Several of these businesses are currently not in a position to make investments or borrow from the system because of their own need to deleverage. I would hope that in some months from now, in line with economic activity in India, we will see a broader pick up in credit offtake from the private sector. I must point out however that we are significant increases in credit demand from multinational companies operating in India who are clearly investing for the long term. This optimism on India, as evidenced by this segment, is also reflected in the   numbers, both for M&A as well as for organic growth.
 
 
 
 Yes, we clearly see multinational companies operating in India participating actively in the investment cycle. I would hope that several of India’s own   will soon follow suit. As far as global multinational companies are concerned, India already represents the top 5-7 markets in the world for a majority of our clients. The Indian footprint typically revolves around domestic consumption and the domestic market is fuelled by the underlying economic activity and growth, which are much higher than most major world markets. Another interesting theme that exists is the potential for these companies to serve other global markets via their Indian operations. This is true for both manufacturing and services companies. This is also true for a company like ours. All of these factors result in taking a long-term view of India and in making investments that are commensurate with the opportunity.
 
 
 
 How many US$2 trillion markets do we know that exist across the world that are growing at the rate that India is? There is also the attractiveness of political stability and a strong reform agenda, which do not necessarily exist in many parts of the world today. Whilst no one can question the benefits of globalization, it is clear that large sections of the world, and in fact sections of society, have not necessarily participated in the benefits of the globalisation that has taken place over the last few decades. For this reason, it also appears that the benefits of globalization are not well understood. A reversal or slowdown in globalisation may have an impact on our trade and capital flows. Having said that, India is less dependent and hence less vulnerable to a potential slowdown in exports than many other major emerging economies. Whilst risks to capital flows exist, I do believe that a combination of growth, along with political and economic stability, can act as very strong magnets for capital. Finally, whilst we will have to wait and see how things evolve in the US, if the US, which is a US$15 trillion economy, grows at a faster rate than it has in the past, I would argue that India will undoubtedly have the opportunity to benefit.
 
 In the capital markets, although indices have reached new highs capital raising seems to be subdued…
 
 We feel very good about the current pipeline for   issuances. In fact, the first few months of this year have already seen a number of US$ bond issues and several equity transactions. With US dollar interest rates on the ascent, potential issuers of dollar bonds are likely to take advantage of very good liquidity in global markets. On the equity front, we have been very pleasantly surprised by the large FII inflows into India in the first few months of 2017. These flows, as well as the massive accretions that are taking place into the domestic mutual fund system, augur very well for potential equity issuers.
 
 
 
 I think it would be fair to say that we will continue to see some consolidation in certain industries going forward. Telecom is an example where consolidation is taking place as we speak, both in service providers and in affiliated industries. Other sectors where we see the possibility of consolidation taking place are banking, power, and media and quite frankly in industries or businesses where excessive indebtedness has been incurred and where these levels of debt are not sustainable. In such cases, consolidation is inevitable.
 
 
 
 It is fair to say that a lot of the fears that existed after demonetisation was announced have since been allayed and put to rest. I think we often tend to be very short-term oriented in assessing the impact of such actions and don’t always contemplate the long-term benefits. In the medium-to-long term, there can be no question that India will benefit significantly from demonetisation in a number of ways: the informal economy migrating to the formal economy, better tax compliance and an increase in the number of tax payers, and finally, as a consequence of reductions in the use of cash, increased digitisation across all segments of the economy and of society.
 
 
 
 The acceleration towards a more digital economy and the opportunity for us to adopt and use more digital channels for our clients is music to our ears. Historically, we have always worked towards operating a banking platform in India that is more digital and less physical. Demonetisation has acted as an enormous catalyst for us. Our mindset and approach have always been to target to achieve market shares in each of our client and product segments that are larger than our physical presence. An increase in digitization allows us to continue to leverage our strengths, both domestically and in taking advantage of our global network and footprint. Post  , we are already seeing some significant benefits, including an increase in client acquisitions through digital channels and changes in the way in which our clients would like to engage and transact with us.
 
 
 
 Our existing market share of credit card spends is approximately 15%. Our average spend is approximately 1.5x of the industry. Ideally, we would want to grow at a rate faster than the industry. There are several initiatives and propositions that we currently have in the market that make us feel confident that we will achieve this aspiration.
 
 
