MUMBAI:  , one of the largest civic wards in the city, finds itself in a unique predicament. It hosts the international airport and world-class hotels in Andheri East, affluent Marathi and Gujarati families in Vile Parle East and heritage era caves in Jogeshwari and Mahakali. Yet, it remains one of most difficult wards in terms of infrastructure and public amenities.

 K East counts among the largest wards in the city with a geographical area spanning 28km. Its population was eight lakh in 2011. It has 15 councillor wards, and that number remains unchanged after delimitation.
 
 At present, most councillors are women. The Shiv Sena dominates the area.
 
 Activist James John of the NGO AGNI says, “The condition of   in Andheri East is pathetic. This in turn leads to traffic jams and consequently pollution. We have to contend not just with the BMC but also with Central agencies and other departments such as the PWD for repairs, which is so cumbersome. Lesser wards like ours are meted stepmotherly treatment. How come roads in A   in South Mumbai do not break once they are repaired but ours always do?”
 
 Residents of the large Takshila Colony say mounds of garbage have piled up at their threshold. “To make matters worse, a group of fisherwomen has set up stalls there and, surprisingly, people buy from them,” said resident Smita Rajendra.
 
 James John says that the overhead   rail does not have a proper drainage system. “Water that accumulates on its tracks during monsoon is actually dispersed onto the roads below, especially on weekends. This is done along the entire length of the metro,” he said.
 
 Citizens are concerned about the dirty   river. Slum dwellers have encroached upon prime airport land and influential politicians have usurped open spaces owned by the BMC. The controversy over heavyweight Sena MLA Ravindra Waikar’s Matoshree Club in Jogeshwari East is cited often. Waikar did not respond to requests for comment.
 
 Over in Vile Parle (East), former Congress MLA Krishna Hegde says the biggest priority is to rehabilitate 80,000 slum families who live on airport land. “Around 70,000 voters are enlisted here. Another 400 families are being shifted owing to the nullah widening at Marol. They must be settled in situ, in the same area,” he said.
 
 The civic body says this is impossible. Ward officials said 20,000 tenements had been constructed for displaced persons in Mahul and the builder had received TDR in exchange as well. “But each tenement remains unoccupied because politicians are instigating people to not shift,” said one engineer.
 
 Civic officers led TOI around the ward Friday to show how hawkers had been removed from the Andheri (E) station precinct. Road-widening projects were underway, a sculpture of G K Agarkar was installed at Agarkar Chowk, walls had been painted and an LED tree installed.
 
 Assistant commissioner Devendra Jain, also labelled as the demolition man, said various traffic bottlenecks had been removed, roads broadened and footpaths cleared of illegal hawkers. Building DP roads would ease the situation further, he said.
 
 
