KOLKATA: Till last month, none of Arkadeep Bhattacharya’s working   even had an idea that their son had turned into a   of clothes and games in the virtual world. That Arkadeep, a Class VIII student at a prominent school in central Kolkata, exhausts his not-so-paltry sum of   and still borrows from his parents every other day, had made his mother suspicious. It was only after much coaxing that she came to know about his   habit.

 Mandira Bhattacharya, Arkadeep’s mother, now doesn’t have a clue how to stop her son from making random purchases on cyber space. And Mandira is not alone in her anxiety. She can take solace from statistics culled out of a big nationwide study on the digital behaviour of city-based students, including that of Kolkata. The study says nine of 10 students in the age group of 10-18 from the city’s top schools shop online and as many as 61% of them get money from their parents as they prefer to pay via cash on delivery (COD). 
 
 The TCS GenZ Survey 2016-’17 is one of the largest studies in the country that deals in the digital habits of students born after 1995 across Indian metros. According to the study, handy e-catalogues and leisurely buying facilities make it easier for this age-group to shop online.
 
 Tech visionary and co-founder of Inthink Group Kalyan Kar corroborates this view. “In our times, a generation used to change every 30 years. Now, it changes every five years,” he said. “The shortening of a generation gap raises the propensity of transaction in cyberspace. If a 45+ person only likes an offline, touch-and-feel buying experience, a 30+ customer first goes for offline testing of products and then online buying. But a kid of around 14 years would start filling e-carts at the click of a mouse, without even thinking about a retail market.”
 
 Aritra Banerjee of St Xavier’s Collegiate School finds the ‘wish-list’ feature best suited for him. “It is the place in an online store where I can save everything I want to buy in future,” he said. “My favourite purchase till now has been a complex Rubik’s Cube set, which is not available in regular toy shops. Sometimes I pay half from my pocket money and my father takes care of the rest. We prefer cash on delivery as my father is not comfortable sharing debit/credit card details online.”
 
 But the most startling revelation of the study is that 20% of school-goers have access to their parents’ debit or credit cards. Sociologist Samit Kar feels it’s due to “unbridled consumerism” that school-going children are imbibing from their parents. “Now, kids are advanced enough to take their buying decisions on their own. It was obviously not the case 10 years back,” he said.
 
 However, not all is bad about online shopping. Consider Anubhav Mukhopadhyay of Patha Bhavan, who always helps his mother buy essentials online. “Payments are made by my father. We prefer COD since it is the safest mode of payment,” said Mukhopadhyay. Also, as the study has found, 59% of those surveyed use the internet for completing school assignments.
 
 Good online discounts are also one of the reasons why today’s youth prefer to click-and-buy, rather than visit brick-and-mortar stores. Swastika Roy of Calcutta Girls’ High School said: “I mainly buy books and cosmetics, which are available at good discounts. But my father pays for my purchases, as I don’t have a debit card of my own.”
 
 It is no wonder that as many as 37% of the students surveyed in the City of Joy have said they subscribe to the internet mainly for online shopping.
 
 The year’s study was undertaken by over 1,042 students of classes VIII-XII from various schools in Kolkata. The study was conducted in order to gauge the changing trends of tech-savvy youths along with their social networking preferences and career interests, said Suresh Menon, VP and GM (East), TCS.
 
 
