Chad gundon ki chaati par, button daba haathi par (climb on criminals’ chests, vote for the elephant) – this was Mayawati’s war cry in past elections in Uttar Pradesh, the pachyderm being the symbol of her   (BSP).
 
  The induction of murder-accused mafia don Mukhtar Ansari by   on Thursday prompted   (BJP) state chief Keshav Prasad Maurya to suggest a new BSP slogan: “Ab gunde chad gaye haathi par, goli marenge chaati par.”
  
  (Criminals have climbed on the elephant and will shoot us in the chest.)
  
  The Uttar Pradesh state poll to be held in February and March will be the fifth election that Ansari will fight from behind bars—he’s been in jail for the past decade.
  
  During this time, Ansari has flirted with the   and BSP, won as independent, floated his own party and returned to the BSP fold.   chief minister  , by refusing tickets to dons like Ansari and Ateeq Ahmed, is trying to do a repeat of 2012 when he denied a ticket to strongman   and ended up victorious.
  
  Ansari is a four-time MLA from   but lost close fights in the last two Lok Sabha polls. While filing nomination papers from Ghosi in the 2014 Lok Sabha election, he declared 15 serious cases pending against him in courts in which either charges are framed or cognisance taken.
  
  These include four cases of murder, including that of BJP MLA Krishnanand   in 2005, many cases of attempted murder and five cases involving criminal intimidation, some of witnesses. The trial of prominent MLA Rai’s murder case is now in its final stages in Delhi’s Tis Hazari CBI special court. Ansari and his brother and former MP Afzal Ansari are accused of the criminal conspiracy behind the killing.
  
  Rai had defeated Afzal Ansari to capture the Mahmoodabad seat in 2002 for the BJP. BSP sees Mukhtar’s re-induction as its reply to the SP-Congress alliance as both sides aim for a consolidation of Muslim votes in their favour in UP. Mayawati has been convinced about Mukhtar’s utility by Ambika Chaudhary, a recent entrant from the SP.
  
  “I have studied the cases against Mukhtar. He has been framed in them. Sometimes, wrong things get done by a good person when he falls into bad company. A person is willing to reform and repent. He is welcome back,” Mayawati said on Thursday, giving him the BSP ticket from Mau. “Akhilesh by humiliating us has humiliated all Muslims,” Afzal Ansari said.
  
  The merger of Ansari’s Quami Ekta Dal (QED) with SP last year was at the root of the feud in the Samajwadi Party. It was acknowledged, called off under Akhilesh’s insistence and was again approved by  .
  
  Afzal Ansari had said in October said Mukhtar Ans a r i and third brother   would fight elections on SP tickets.
  
   , then the state president of SP, had to clarify that a ticket for Mukhtar Ansari was not part of the QED deal and declared a ticket only for Sibghatul lah Ansari. Sources close to Akhilesh Yadav said he was against the merger in toto and firmly denied tickets to all three brothers.
  
  With QED now with BSP, the political situation in east UP has Mayawati aiming for big gains at the expense of SP. In  , out of seven assembly seats, SP holds six while one is with QED.
  
  SP also holds five out of the seven seats in  , two out of the four in Mau and nine out of the 10 in  . The last district is also the Lok Sabha constituency of Mulayam Singh Yadav. In their campaign, the Ansari brothers are expected to target Akhilesh Yadav rather than his father, trying to amplify the latter’s supposed admission that Akhilesh is anti-Muslim. “The Muslims out of sympathy for Mulayam could consolidate in favour of BSP,” a senior BSP leader told ET.
  
  Akhilesh feels the Ansar i brothers have a poor image among Muslims too and their induction weakens BSP’s accusations against SP of goondaism and poor law and order in UP.
  
  BJP feels this development strengthens its campaign against SP and BSP for sheltering criminal elements for vote-bank politics. Mayawati has been openly appealing to Muslims to vote as one bloc for the BSP, saying only it has the capability of stopping the BJP.
  
  At the centre of this appeal will now be the Ansari brothers. “We have capability to impact 45-50 seats. We have dedicated votes in east UP,” Sibghatullah Ansari said.
  
  From jail, Mukhtar Ansari is expected to use his influence to aid the BSP. About a decade ago, he managed to overturn one conviction that could have ended his career. He was convicted in 2003 in a TADA and Arms Act case and sentenced to 10 years in jail but in 2005 the   acquitted him. The   murder case verdict is now awaited.
  
  “We hope that verdict will be the end of Mukhtar contesting polls,” said  , his widow. 
