DHANBAD: The   (DMC) is planning to construct 1,020 quarters and convert four slum settlements into multi-storied building clusters under   (PPP) mode in the city.

 “A section of the multi-storied buildings will be for slum dwellers while the remaining portion be sold by builders in the open market as per existing market rates. What percentage of houses the builders will be allowed to sell in the open market will be ascertained after the tendering process is complete,” mayor Chandra Shekhar Agrawal said,
 
 “In the first phase, the 1,020 residential units will be built over 2.44 acres of land in Koranga Basti where 510 residential units will be constructed. This apart, 288   units will be built at Dompara over 0.49 acres of land and 168 units on 0.33 acres of land. Sixty-four housing units will be built in Harijan Basti,” the mayor added.
 
 DMC has already sanctioned the preparation of a detailed project report (DPR) and has appointed a Delhi-based consultancy firm for the same. Sources in the civic body said, in the first phase, three-storied houses will be built over 3.39 acres of land situation across four slum zones in the heart of the coal capital.
 
 “We expect the DPR to be completed by June. We will then invite proposals from noted registered builders from across the country. Once the tendering process in complete, construction work as per pre-sanctioned blue print will be handed over to builders. They will have to complete the project within a period of two years,” Agrawal said.
 
 “Although we have earmarked 71 slum areas in Dhanbad, in this phase, only 13 slum areas will be re-developed,” he added.
 
 As per the plan, in the next phase, residential colonies will be built at Bekarband Hanuman Basti, Bekar Bandh Ram Nagar colony, Khatik Mohalla, Ambedkar Nagar, Khilan Gora, Bhuli B block, behind Golf ground and at Azad Nagar Bhuli.
 
 Explaining the financial arithmetic of the upcoming colony which will be constructed on the sidelines of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojna, Agrawal said the city is facing a severe land scarcity and land prices is increasing at a rapid rate. In such a scenario, builders for this project will be provided with readymade infrastructure, that is, prime land with power and water. 
 
 
