Vadodara: Are government buildings in the city equipped to prevent or handle fires? 

 Going by Vadodara Fire and Emergency Services claims, the government buildings – heritage as well as high rises – are all ill-equipped to avoid any untoward incident like that in district collector’s office on Tuesday. Tuesday’s fire in the heritage Kothi building which houses the district collector’s office was a stark reminder to this.
 
 Sources in the fire department said that the fire-fighting system in the buildings are either old or don’t covering the entire area of the building even when they are highly susceptible to fire. Every year these buildings apply for no-objection certificate to the fire department. While the department gives them the certificate, they also recommend latest smoke detection systems and automatic extinguishers for the buildings. But, these have not been installed yet. Fire department officials said that the heritage Kothi building and its annexe building do not have any such system. Kuber Bhavan building has smoke detection system but according to fire department sources the system does not cover the entire area and lacks maintenance. 
 
 Even the Vadodara Municipal Corporation’s headquarters in the heritage Khanderao Market has smoke detection systems but it does not have automatic fire extinguishers and sprinklers.
 
 After the fire at collector office, the city division of roads and buildings (R&B) department has written to fire department to conduct a fire audit of all buildings that come under them. 
 
 “We sent a letter today for fire audit. We will implement all the recommendations they make,” said R K Delwadiam, executive engineer, R&B department, city division. 
 
 Time and again the fire and emergency services have recommended that Very Early Smoke Detection (VESD) system be installed in all government buildings which are highly susceptible to fire. The VESD system immediately after detecting smoke, activates fire alarms, fire extinguishers and water sprinklers. “If this system is installed, the important files and documents that are stacked in the buildings can be saved from getting gutted,” an official said.
 
 
