There’s much focus on this city being a  , a place where  , multinationals and startups are always looking to get (and stay) ahead. But amid the 9-to-5 grind, desk-bound workers tend to lose sight of the fact that there’s a world outside their cubicles and PowerPoint presentations.

 ‘Urban Stampede’, the country’s only multi-city race for corporates (Mumbai is the other venue), is a step towards getting these professionals to reclaim their R&R time, by seeking to introduce an ideal work/leisure balance into the lives of MNC employees. And on an action-packed Sunday in  , around 700 men and women came together for events that included a 5km walk, 5km and 10km runs, and a corporate relay (5km x 4).
 
 Gaurav Kandpal, who works with an IT firm, was one of the many who awoke early on Sunday, and it was his first time at such a gathering. “It was an excellent experience,” enthused Gaurav, who had entered for the 10km run (he got a medal of completion for his efforts). “I really enjoyed the run and I’m definitely planning to go for more events like this.”
 
 It took Gaurav about an hour to finish the 10km, and he admitted to feeling a bit tired at race’s end, but he’s now bitten by the bug. For the last few weeks, Gaurav has been happy to devote his mornings to a spot of running, and is keen on maintaining a more regular schedule of exercise.
 
 “We think a timed 5km or 10km is the Rubicon to be crossed before one can refer to oneself as a runner,” says Arvind Krishnan, founder of ‘Runners for Life’, organisers of Urban Stampede. In that aspect, they would have succeeded, having given newbies like Gaurav the opportunity to get a taste of the running life.
 
 ‘Runners for Life’ has been organising the ‘Stampede’ since 2005, with an objective of promoting a culture of fitness through running, and building an inclusive ecosystem where work and leisure go hand in hand.
 
 Meanwhile, in another part of town, in anticipation of the upcoming International Women’s Day, the ladies got to show off their prowess on the pedals in an event called ‘Cykulothon’. 
 
 Participants followed the old Raahgiri loop, the race starting and ending in front of Galleria market. The Cykulothon was flagged off by the commissioner of police, Sandeep Khirwar, who completed two of the 4.7km loops. Altogether, 138 women took part, happy riders on a bright and crisp Sunday morning.
 
 
