KOLKATA: The   races at the RCTC have been a high-profile must-attend for socialites ever since the introduction of this “sport of kings“ by the British centuries ago. Turned out in their fashionable best, men and women of all ages poured in through the turnstiles well before the first race that took off 11.30am. The stands were well and truly swelling with crowds by the third race of the day.

 This is the day , the socalled pros take a backseat.The sprawling food court and lawn bars were soon packed with the who's who of the city's socialites, including Tollywood's leading lady  . Some of them could be seen tapping their feet to Abba oldies and other songs of the 60s and 70s, which seemed to be the perfect background score for the occasion. Bearers with trays of coffee, beer and sandwiches added to the festive mood.Selfies seemed to be the order of the day as manicured hands flashed their classy smartphones, holding them up to capture their happy day on the lawn.
 
 With the weather god also obliging, the mega event witnessed the largest gathering seen at the Kolkata racecourse. RCTC CEO Sudhir Kumar Kothari appeared more than pleased with the record attendance of over 25,000, even as the turnstiles continued to turn, letting in the visitors in hordes. The totalisator counters jingled with cash right through the six hours of 10 races.
 
 The tote collection of nearly Rs 2 crore was almost double that of any other day .
 
 As the seven contenders for the afternoon's glamour event —   — were being paraded with their jockeys in colourful silk, spectators jostled for a better view of the long-distance 2,200m race. Some of the bleary-eyed visitors, after their late-night parties on New Year's Eve, were shaken out of their hangover, thanks to the main heroes--the horses--who always manage to push the excitement quotient up. Even the most placid of men turn animated in their presence. The adventurous among them could be seen opening their wallets to place a flutter or two on their favourite runners.
 
 The race provided edge-of-the-seat entertainment as Square Moon and Shourisha crossed the wire, locked together. Equally thrilling was the Kunigal Stud Stakes, won by the attractive filly , Sana, who pocketed the winner's purse of Rs 12 lakh for her connections. Flamboyant western India jockey Dashrath Singh was at his brilliant best in both the races, drowning in applause from first-timers and old-timers alike.
 
 The name, “Christopher Alford“, made the rounds among the newcomers. The local champion was conspicuous by his absence as he had the misfortune of fracturing a forearm during trackwork a couple of weeks earlier.
 
 Those of you looking for an encore are advised to make it to the same venue next Sunday , when the   is slated for. That ought to be a race worth waiting for as it promises to set the adrenalin rushing.
 
