HYDERABAD: The   (RSS) in Telangana has said that its activists would go up to the Supreme Court if   goes ahead with his plan to have 9%  .

 Telling the CM to stop 'appeasing'  , RSS state unit general secretary   said, "RSS is a social organisation and it will not go to court. But its swayamsevaks associated with   (legal wing) will go up to the SC to stop the 9% quota plan." Sharing details of Akhil Bharatiya Pratinidhi Sabha held in Coimbatorefrom March 19- to March 21, he said they would submit a representation to the governor.
 
 While arguing that RSS was not against benefits being extended to Muslim community through government schemes, he said: "We are opposed to giving religious quota as it will create animosity in society. TRS government should not disturb the balance in society by appeasement. They have also constituted a commission which itself is not valid and has been challenged in court. If the TRS government passes the quota for Muslims, it will again end in a legal tussle. But it may not succeed as a case is still pending in the High Court."
 
 While referring to previous Congress government enacting a law providing 4% quota which was struck down by SC, he said: "Now the TRS government is talking about 9% quota to hoodwink minorities."
 
 On future elections, he said: "Minority appeasement will not work, whether it is Uttar Pradesh or any other state. The ruling TRS government should realise this."
 
 Referring to the Ram temple, Chandrashekhar said the RSS would go with any of the three solutions, namely the SC judgment or out-of-court settlement or through legislation. "The time is ripe now to find a solution to the dispute. Resolving the Ayodhya dispute and building a Ram temple will definitely help in nation building in a big way," he said. "We wish that consensus can definitely be build on the Ram temple. There is a perceptible change in their (Muslim community) stand that respecting the sentiments of the majority community a temple should be built in honour of Lord Ram. Some solution should be found under the Constitution and this issue should not be postponed further. It is the responsibility of the government to resolve the issue," he added.
 
