NEW DELHI: Union minister   had asked   not to disclose information related to her degree, the   (SOL) informed the Central Information Commission (CIC) recently. The commission has now directed SOL to produce all documents related to Irani's educational qualification. A show-cause notice was issued on January 10 to the central public information officer of DU for having failed to produce the records before.

 This comes close on the heels of a CIC order directing   to allow inspection of files related to Irani's Class 10 and Class 12 records.
 
 Irani's degrees sparked controversy after a petitioner alleged that she had given contradictory information in her affidavits filed before contesting elections in 2004, 2011 and 2014. In her affidavit for the 2004 Lok Sabha polls, Irani had said she completed her BA in 1996 from DU (School of Correspondence as SOL was then called), whereas in another affidavit on July 11, 2011 to contest Rajya Sabha election from Gujarat, she said her highest educational qualification was BCom Part I, a petitioner had alleged in court.
 
 The matter was dismissed by the court. But an applicant has sought records pertaining to Irani's education, bringing the issue to the fore again. During a hearing, SOL's central public information officer OP Tanwar said considering that it was third party information, he had consulted Irani.
 
 "In her response, (she) raised objection against (sic) disclosure and requested the public authority not to reveal her educational qualification. The CPIO pleaded that information sought was given by the former HRD minister in fiduciary capacity and hence could not be divulged as per Section 8(1)(e)," information commissioner Sridhar Acharyulu said in his order.
 
 Although chief information commissioner RK Mathur has divested Acharyulu of the HRD ministry portfolio, two days after he ordered disclosure of records of the BA course of 1978, the year in which PM   is said to have graduated from DU, he will continue to adjudicate matters in which he has already issued notices and is finalising orders.
 
 The petitioner had sought to know from SOL whether Irani had obtained her BA degree in 1996 and passed BCom Part I in 1994 from DU. He also asked for photocopies of her hall-ticket, marksheets and admission form with enrolment number, in case she enrolled herself for the course but did not obtain the degree. The petitioner sought to know if the minister was enrolled with the university in 2013 and why she did not take any examination.
 
 The SOL cited two exemption clauses -personal information and fiduciary information -under the RTI Act to deny the information.
 
 "The question before the commission is whether the appellant is asking (for) information which is given by the student (Smriti Irani) to the School of Open Learning or whether School of Open Learning has given the degree to its student," Acharyulu said. He added that it was necessary to verify the records.
 
 "The commission summons the concerned records and directs OP Tanwar to produce registers and records containing details of educational qualifications accorded to the student which were sought by the applicant," Acharyulu said in his order. He has given SOL time till February 10 to provide the information.
 
