RANCHI:   Brinda Karat on Saturday took a dig at Union home affairs minister Rajnath Singh for his “double speak” on Kashmir. Asking the NDA government at the Centre led to remember and follow former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s stand on Kashmir, the veteran Leftist leader called for a dialogue and immediate restriction on the use of pellet guns. 

 Karat was in the state to meet the villagers in Godda who have been protesting against land acquisition for Adani Group’s proposed thermal power plant. On Saturday she interacted with media persons on the party’s central committee meet, held in New Delhi, while criticising the Modi government for its “failure” to control the separatist agitation in Jammu & Kashmir.
 
 Karat said the Centre should engage in dialogue with the people in Kashmir and explore a political solution to resolve the crisis. “The BJP is in power at the Centre and shares an alliance with PDP in Jammu & Kashmir. They have to take the onus of failure in handling the situation,” Karat said. 
 
 She added, “In one hand Singh gives assurance of dialogue and on the other he takes an opposite stand when asked for a response by the  
 
 Karat said her party will start a debate in support of proportional representation system instead of prevailing first past the post electoral system, in a bid to strengthen democratic rights of electorate. She added that despite getting support of 40% electorate, BJP secured three-fourth seats in Uttar Pradesh assembly election. “The recent assembly elections in five states have proved that parties having minimal voters’ support bag more than three-fourth seats. It indicates that the democratic system of electing representatives needs correction,” she said.
 
 Karat also raked up the issue of funding of political parties.
 
 She criticised BJP for its proposal to amend finance bill to allow corporate funding of political parties without the disclosure of names. “At one hand the   is trying to make funding of political parties transparent but on the other the Centre is trying to give protection to corporate houses,” Karat said.
 
 Karat said the CPM will launch a campaign against the Centre’s plan to link Aadhaar number with some of the social security schemes like public distribution system, pension and MGNREGA.
 
 
