MUMBAI:  , who stepped down as co-chief executive of   a year ago, is coming back to the world of finance as an investment banker.  , the New York-based financial services company, has appointed Jain as president — a newly created role.

 His appointment as second-in-command was announced by chairman and CEO Howard Lutnick who said Jain will help expand Cantor Fitzgerald’s business in Asia, among other markets. Jain’s appointment came even as he faced flak from global media who saw him as a force behind Deutsche Bank’s appetite for risk.
 
 Cantor Fitzgerald was struck by tragedy when it lost 658 of its 960 employees in the 9/11 attack. “I have long admired Howard’s extraordinary leadership and successful efforts as he and his team rebuilt and expanded the firm after 9/11. From the end of 2001 through now,   has grown dramatically from several hundred employees and partners to over 10,000 globally across financial services and real estate. Cantor’s unwavering determination to succeed despite past adversity, along with its fiercely loyal client base, and unique global position, are what attracted me to this great firm,” said Jain.Jain is the former co-chief executive officer of Deutsche Bank and has been a leader in the financial services industry for over three decades. Jain won his position as CEO of Deutsche Bank in 2010 after successfully running the firm’s investment banking business, bringing in close to 80% of its profits.“Anshu is a world-class leader in the financial services industry and has a proven track record as a pioneer and builder of leading global businesses. He has a deep understanding of the global capital markets, and strong expertise built over decades of leadership in the industry, making Anshu my ideal partner to drive growth during the next era of Cantor’s development,” said Lutnick
 
 Cantor has four main business lines Capital Markets and Investment Banking, Wholesale Financial Brokerage, Real Estate Brokerage and Finance, and Private Equity.
 
 
