Nagpur/Chandrapur: Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee president Ashok Chavan said the party is seized of the serious issues raised by local Congress leaders who met him in Delhi on Tuesday. 

 “We will take appropriate decisions. The delegation also met party vice-president Rahul Gandhi. Now, any decision can be taken only in consultation with the top leadership,” he said.
 
 Asked if Rahul discussed the matter with him, Chavan said he was busy with Parliament session and soon had leave Delhi for a four-day civic election campaign in Chandrapur, Parbhani and Latur. “But we will soon sort out the problems raised by the corporators after consultating the party high command,” said Chavan.
 
 The former CM also visited Chandrapur on Wednesday to campaign for party candidates in municipal corporation election. 
 
 Speaking to journalists here, Chavan lashed out at CM Devendra Fadnavis for looking up to Uttar Pradesh for executing loan waiver in Maharashtra. He claimed that Maharashtra is a progressive state and other states used to come here to study its development model. “However, the chief minister’s statement about studying the UP model for implementation of loan waiver is disgraceful and shows his distrust in Maharashtra’s bureaucracy,” Chavan said.
 
 He countered the claims of CM Fadnavis about taking measures to strengthen farmers by providing them various agricultural amenities, stating that these are long term measures while farmers immediate respite. “Some 9,000 farmers have committed suicide in one year in Maharashtra. Most of them belong to Vidarbha and Marathwada. Farmers facing three consecutive drought needs immediate respite which could only come from loan waiver, he insisted.
 
 Chavan arrived in Nagpur at noon and launched a signature campaign supporting Kulbhushan Jadhav, the ex-Naval officer from Maharashtra, falsely accused by Pakistan of being a spy.
 
 Chavan said that the MPCC is pained by the Pakistani military court’s decision to hang Kulbhushan, a son of the soil. As per all indications available, he was doing business after retirement from Navy. He was abducted by Pakistani elements and falsely implicated in an espionage case. 
 
 “He was not given any chance to defend himself and the secret court unilaterally decided to punish an innocent man. It reflects the country’s anti-India stance,” said the ex-CM.
 
 Asked whether Congress had any national and state level plans to revive the party, Chavan said the Congress fortune could change in the next two years before the 2019 elections. 
 
 “The BJP is misusing all resources at its command. It is also using unfair means to stay in power. The recent Kisan Sangharsh Yatra was the first step in the state where all anti-BJP parties came together and resolved to take on the BJP,” said Chavan.
 
 
