HYDERABAD: A year after Hyderabad earned the dubious distinction of being featured in the top three noisiest cities in the country, the   (CPCB) says the   is pushing the levels even higher on city roads. 

 While the data released by the CPCB shows the monthly averages for the years 2011-2014 hovered between 72 and 73 decibels (dB) - much above the prescribed level of 55 dB, the levels during most months of 2016 have been between 76 and 80 dB, according to the data released by the  . The daily maximum levels touched 95 dB during the day and 85 dB in the night. Sanathnagar, Abids, Gaddapothram and JNTU were named as the worst places to be in during both night and day as decibel levels in these places crossed over 80 dB. 
 
 These levels are enough to cause  , insomnia and   among commuters if they are out for one-two hours. The levels are dangerously increasing, especially due to high-pitched honking, in addition to unnecessary and aggressive honking. The loud exhaust note of bikes is yet another addition to the problem. 
 
 Going by latest data from the traffic department, the honking menace also is pretty bad on city roads. The Hyderabad traffic police have registered 927 cases against motorists for noise pollution in the year 2016 as against 327 cases in 2015. Many motorists especially two wheeler drivers are among the worst hit by noise pollution. "I started having a headache the minute I reached the first traffic signal at Abids on my way to office and it lasted the entire day. Later, I was diagnosed with stress due to noise pollution," said Srikanth Goud, a banker. He now uses earphones with music on while driving. 
 
 "Some horns, especially the ones used by cars and bikes are very loud. To top it, these drivers are usually very aggressive and would honk constantly. Sometimes its a war of horns between two vehicles, making the noise unbearable," said B Lasya Reddy, a pedestrian.Car accessory and automobile parts stores too admit getting a lot of customers who want to replace their regular horns with 'more effective' ones. "It's usually the youngsters who come looking for high-pitched horns. They feel those are more effective," said Mohd Afsar, owner of a car accessory store at Kukatpally.
 
 
