NASHIK: Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief   did not even mention the name of former deputy chief minister  , who is now in jail, during his rally in Nashik on Thursday. 

 Pawar kick-started campaign for the elections to Zilla Parishad and municipal corporation from the onion turf of Nashik district at   on Thursday. Bhujbal was the party’s prominent leader from the region and held sway over the local bodies.
 
 On Wednesday, various hoardings welcoming Sharad Pawar had been put up at Pimpalgaon ahead of his visit. But these did not have a single picture of Bhujbal, which disappointed supporters. New hoardings with Bhujbal’s picture were placed on Wednesday evening.
 
 When asked about this during a press conference, Pawar said, “Bhujbal has made great contribution for the development of Nashik city. Hence, there is no question of giving directive that his photo should not been included in the hoardings. We will not take any such decision about Bhujbal until the court gives its verdict.”
 
 The NCP is facing tough times as four of its leaders, including Bhujbal and his nephew Sameer, are under arrest in the past 10 months. Pawar’s visit to Nashik itself was long overdue. He was last here in March 2016, just days before Bhujbal was arrested. 
 
 Recently, former MP and sitting chairman of   Devidas Pingle was arrested on alleged corruption charges. The Nashik anti-corruption bureau arrested Devidas Pingle, about two months after three APMC employees were arrested for carrying Rs Rs 57.73 lakh. They failed to provide justification for carrying the cash. 
 
 Also, former NCP’s youth wing president Chhabu Nagare is also in jail for his alleged involvement in fake currency case. Nagare and ten others were arrested in connection with the major haul of fake bills of the demonetized Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 notes worth Rs 1.35 crore. The police also recovered printers and scanners from Nagare's house. 
 
 Pawar said, “I was listening to the representation of the   secretary, who said Rs 2,000 note whose colour is getting faded is genuine. One of the persons among us in Nashik would have printed more Rs 2,000 notes in his house if he was aware of this.” 
 
 “There is only on Currency Note Press in Nashik, any other would have been another press at his home. I told government that such people should be hanged.” he said, adding, “In politics, we do not make enquiry of each person, but such persons should not be spared and be hanged.”
 
 Pawar said cleaning of party, the image of which was maligned due to some wrong people, is to be done here. When asked about Nagare and Pingle, Pawar said, “The party’s image was maligned due to some tainted leaders who came into the party, but we will have to do the work of cleaning the party.”
 
 
