NEW DELHI: The   who had allegedly mowed down a man on   on Saturday night was tracked down and arrested on Monday after a manhunt across Delhi and Haryana. The impact of the hit was such that the victim, Manoj (25), was flung in the air and landed on the iron grille of the road divider that impaled his body.

 Confirming the arrest, DCP (central) Mandeep Randhawa said the accused has been identified as Rajiv Malhotra, a  . He has an office in Daryaganj and lives in Greater Kailash. On Sunday, he went to office as usual in a bid to create an alibi, but used another car. He hid the car at a relative’s house in Noida and asked them to get it repaired at a service station.
 
 An FIR under IPC Section 304A (causing death due to negligence) has been registered against the accused. The police are seeking legal opinion to book Malhotra under stricter sections.
 
 After the accident, Malhotra sped away from the spot, but his car was captured in parts by multiple CCTVs installed near Dilli Gate area. Cameras at India Gate also caught the fleeing car.
 
 Meanwhile, police did not confirm reports that a man from the neighbourhood where the   was parked had informed them seeing the state of the car and reading news reports about the hit-and-run.
 
 A passerby, who had witnessed the accident, had called the PCR around 11.30pm on Saturday. He told the cops about the white-coloured car hitting Manoj. A team of policemen rushed to the spot took over half an hour to extricate the man’s body from the grille. Manoj’s body was then sent for postmortem.
 
 “Manoj used to work with me at a juice shop for the past two years. He was a very jolly person. We finished work around 10.30pm, but as I had some work on the way, I asked him to leave without me,” said Lalit, the victim’s uncle.
 
 Another co-worker, Bachchu, said that Manoj’s body was beyond recognition after landing on the grille. Manoj was married and has two children, who live in Bihar. 
 
 He had come to Delhi two years ago to earn a living. His relatives took the body to Bihar for last rites after the postmortem.
 
 
