GURUGRAM:  , the prime suspect in the   of Class 2 student Pradhyumn Thakur in the washroom of   International School (Bhondsi), was brought out of jail, bundled into a white Innova and taken to Delhi around 3.30 on Saturday afternoon by a team of   sleuths as the central agency began its investigation into the killing that has shaken the country.

 Four hours before that, around 11.30am, a 10-member team from the CBI and the Central Forensic Science Laboratory (CFSL) reached the school, studied the crime scene (the ground-floor washroom) and began the process of information and sample gathering on which the forensic backbone of the case will eventually rest.
 
 After spending three hours at the school, the CBI team split up around 2.30pm. While one remained at the school and questioned both teaching and non-teaching staff, the other headed for the nearby district jail to take custody of Kumar and two   of the school lodged there in judicial custody, Francis Thomas and Jayesh Thomas.
 
 Kumar, conductor of a school bus at Ryan, was arrested on September 8, hours after the murder of the seven-year-old boy. Police treated him as the main suspect, saying he tried to sexually assault the boy and killed him when he resisted. Francis and Jayesh were arrested later after a criminal case was filed against the school under the   Justice Act. Police added these charges to the main FIR to prepare their chargesheet. But on September 15, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, acceding to Pradhyumn’s parents’ demand, ordered a CBI probe.
 
 The CBI took Kumar, who was in judicial custody, on a day’s remand after seeking permission from duty magistrate (Gurgaon court) Rajni Yadav. Francis (Ryan’s North India head) and Jayesh (HR head) were taken on a two-day remand. Kumar had his face fully covered in white cloth when he was being taken away. Francis and Jayesh looked nervous and asked the CBI officials where they were being taken.
 
 The CBI’s evidence-collection team was led by Dr Kutti. They were assisted by Tanya Singh, ACP (Pataudi) and Bhondsi police station SHO Narender Singh, both part of the special investigation team that Gurgaon police set up. The CFSL team took samples of fingerprints, blood patches near the washroom and water cooler. They also took photos and videographed the crime scene.
 
 On Friday, after registering the FIR, a CBI team had met Gurgaon police commissioner Sandeep Khirwar and SIT head Ashok Bakshi (DCP, south) who handed over the case file along with other evidence. They had an hour-long discussion with the police. Among the CBI officers present were Aasra Garg (SP), Ajay Bassi and Amit Kumar (both DSP). 
 
 “We have handed over the case file and other evidence to the CBI. Only the FSL (Forensic Science Laboratory, Madhubani) report is awaited and we will submit it when we receive it,” Bakshi said.
 
 Pradhyumn bled to death after his throat was slit in the school’s washroom, minutes after his father had dropped him and his elder sister to school.
 
 
