NAGPUR: The country’s oldest political party seems to have learnt no lessons from all its recent setbacks. The infighting which has cost Congress dearly in the form of electoral debacles has once again come out openly even as the deadline for completing organizational elections has not been met.

 The groups led by Vilas Muttemwar and   in the party are once again at loggerheads. Murttemwar’s protege and city unit president of   claimed on Friday that internal poll process was completed. “I and MPCC president   have taken care of it ,” he said.
 
 Dismissing his claim, a spokesman of the rival group said that the poll schedule has gone totally haywire. “District returning officer Vijaykumar Choube is yet to land in the city with a list of block returning officers (BROs), who are to conduct the elections at grassroots level,” he said. 
 
 “The stipulated time for district-level elections is over but Nagpur is the only place in the state where even the BRO list is not out. This is because the plan to fabricate its list by the Muttemwar group, which has blessings of the MPCC president, has been foiled by Pradesh Returning Officer (PRO) Mahesh Joshi,” said a party source.
 
 The rival faction also alleged that not a single step was followed as per the schedule given by the national election authority. Chaturvedi, Nitin Raut and some other from the rival group camped in Delhi earlier this week and returned on Thursday. They have reportedly apprised party leader Ahmed Patel and others about the growing unrest in the party.
 
 “We are insisting on a free and fair elections. We have told the central leadership that there would be an internal revolt and the election process of the country could be challenged in the court if the nominations were announced without elections held as per prescribed norms,” said a leader from the rival camp. 
 
 The party tried to impose a leader in the NMC group by ignoring views of the elected corporators. But then, the corporators revolted, formed a majority group and elected its own leader. This group was recognized by the high court when the MPCC challenged it. The same thing could happen if a fair poll process is not adopted and nominated list is declared, the rival leaders have warned.
 
 Even as the Congress is in turmoil, the resignation by senior party leader Narayan Rane and his plans to start campaign from Nagpur have added a new dimension. There is speculation that during Rane’s visit, a couple of MLAs from Vidarbha may openly join him.
 
