PUNE: Data and anecdotal evidence available from different quarters show that the   move just about met with partial success.

 Wednesday marks the completion of four months since Prime Minister   announced a massive demonetisation exercise that sucked out over 86% of the total currency in circulation. The objectives of the exercise were to cleanse the system of the scourge of black money, put an end to counterfeit currency and push more digital transactions in a high cash economy.
 
 The income tax department has identified 1.8 million high deposit accounts and sent notices using different means. About 0.7 million of the account holders have responded to the queries and the tax department is scrutinizing the balance 1.1 million accounts. The department has also conducted surveys and searches at various places where they found evidence of irregular transactions.
 
 To put things into perspective, these cash recoveries and searches are just a tip of the iceberg. In Pune, the highest recovery in new notes was of Rs10 crore from a couple of Worldwide Oilfield Machine’s locker held with a   branch.
 
 “The currency recovery was small compared to what we usually recover or go after in a search but given the context of the situation, it created a lot of waves,” said a top tax official.
 
 Also, there were evidence and public accounts of cash being made freely available for circulation by political parties during the civic body elections. The tax department received calls on the helpline numbers tipping them off about cash being circulated prior to elections.
 
 There were also seizures of documents and/or cash from jewellers, civil contractors and doctors across the state, but the outcome on the action taken in each of these cases is still awaited.
 
 Media reports quoting intelligence officials showed that counterfeit Rs2,000 notes are getting pushed from the Bangladesh border into the country. More than half of the security features on the new Rs2,000 note already seem to have been copied by counterfeiters. The extent of estimated counterfeit currency in circulation at Rs400 crore was just 0.025% of the total currency withdrawn.
 
 Demonetisation was also seen as a bid to give a big push to digital transactions. In January 2017, the total volume of all digital transactions fell 10% over December 2016. In February 2017, the total volume of all digital transactions further slipped 2% over the first 28 days of January (February had only 28 days). If remains to be seen if the momentum in digital transactions sustains in the weeks and months ahead.
 
