KOLKATA: With an eye to the coming  ,   on Wednesday assigned more responsibilitiy to the party's next generation leaders. As a first step, she formed a five-member committee, which will screen defectors now willing to return to the party fold.

 Several committees at the state and national level were rejigged and the party's youth president Abhishek Banerjee was tasked with key responsibilities.This also signalled the   MP's return to active politics after a four-month break following his October road accident. Apart from his role as the screening committee member, Abhishek has been asked to resolve inner-party wranglings in Jalpaiguri and Bankura.
 
 The other members of the screening committee are senior ministers Suvendu Adhikari, Firhad Hakim, Aroop Biswas and Sovan Chatterjee.
 
 A senior party leader said, “In the panchayat polls, the party will have to fight anti-incumbency. Al so, the massive mandate in the 2016 assembly polls has created a sense of sluggishness among the party's foot-soldiers. And before any panchayat polls, hordes of people from other parties try to shift to the ruling party, eyeing the victory spoils ­ which usually are plum panchayat posts. The party chief is trying to overcome these shortcomings."
 
 Mamata also made her intent clear when she asked her partymen to hit the streets on March 8 ­ International Women's Day. She herself will lead the party's women's wing march in Kolkata. “In every block and district, the party's women members will organize an outreach programme,“ party secretary-general Partha Chatterjee told reporters.
 
 Mamata's core committee meeting didn't limit itself to the state party rejig alone. She asked party MPs Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar, Sukhendu Sekhar Ray, Dinesh Trivedi, and also Manas Bhuniya, to help party vice-president Mukul Roy to forge inroads in the bank and railway unions in New Delhi. So far, these were handled by Roy alone. This wasn't all. Mamata also asked Suvendu and party national president Subrata Bakshi to try and make inroads into neighbouring Odhisa, state tourism minister Gautam Deb to focus on Assam, Deb and MP Dasarath Tirkey to organize party units in Sikkim. Earlier, she had assigned Aroop Biswas to bolster the party's Tripura unit. It was Roy who earlier looked after the party's activities beyond Bengal.Roy will now look after Manipur and Punjab.
 
 Party nominates Manish for RS
 
 Manish Gupta was nominated unanimously for  's now-vacated seat in the Rajya Sabha. Given Trinamool's two-thirds majority in the assembly, Gupta is sure to win.He said, “I would like to express my heartfelt thanks to Mamata Banerjee for giving me yet another chance to serve people."
 
 Chandrima Bhattacharya will be the party's candidate in Contai (South) assembly seat. 
 
