PUNE: Upset over not getting tickets to contest the February 21 civic polls, a group of   from   has decided to float a new party. 

 The ‘Nishtavant Bharatiya Janata Party Pimpri Chinchwad City’ will be formed after the elections. 
 
 There was an exodus of sitting corporators to the BJP from all the other parties. Around two dozen sitting corporators from the Congress, NCP, Shiv Sena and   (MNS) swore allegiance to the BJP in the last 2-3 months. 
 
 In the same period, at least a dozen   from the NCP and the Congress also threw their lot in with the saffron party. 
 
 What this meant was there was a large number of aspirants in the BJP for each seat. 
 
 The party walked a tightrope, having to satisfy its loyalists who have been working in the city for decades, and also appease its newest members. 
 
 It wasn’t entirely successful in this regard. As a result, the disappointed aspirants rebelled. 
 
 The decision to float a new party was taken at a meeting. 
 
 “A total of 47 loyalists had wanted nominations but only two or three were picked by the party. Around 150 party office-bearers and workers were present at the meeting (to form a new party). Later, we staged a sit-down protest outside the BJP office in Pimpri. We will register the ‘Nishtavant Bharatiya Janata Party Pimpri Chinchwad City’ as a separate political party after the municipal elections,” said Raju Durge, vice-president of BJP’s Pimpri Chinchwad unit. 
 
 The agitating loyalists raised slogans against Chinchwad BJP MLA Laxman Jagtap, who is also the city unit president. They demanded the removal of Jagtap from his posts. 
 
 BJP’s state unit secretary Uma Khapre and organizing secretary (western Maharashtra) Ravi Anaspure and others had rushed to the spot to pacify the agitators. Police bandobust was also deployed. 
 
 “We have appealed to the aggrieved party workers to be peaceful and not to contest the municipal elections as independent candidates,” said Khapre.
 
 She added, “We will convey these grievances to the president of the state unit, chief minister Devendra Fadnavis and guardian minister Girish Bapat.” 
 
