While the fest season is at its peak in Delhi University, other universities in Delhi have also started organising their fests to compete with DU colleges. One such fest,  , the annual cultural festival of   (DTU) kick-started on Saturday with,   giving an electrifying performance on the first day.
 
 
 The performance, had students waiting for more than three hours for Sunidhi Chauhan, who started performing at almost around 9pm. Sunidhi began her performance with her hit number  . As she came on stage, she not only interacted with the crowd, but also gave compliments to students individually. Referring to a guy in the crowd, she said, "You, you in that white shirt, I love you". "I can see that you are dancing", "Wah, wah, kya dance kar rahe ho”, Sunidhi managed to win many hearts because of her compliments. As she started singing Shut Up & Bounce, she asked the crowd, “Are you ready to dance with me? Dilli, saddi Dilli, kya haal hai?".
 
 
 
  
  Picture Frenzy: The crowd take Sunidhi’s pictures as they dance to her tunes (BCCL)
 
 
 Next, she sang 'Ainvayi Ainvayi', and before she could even start the performance, the crowd started singing the lyrics. "Arrey, abhi toh shuru bhi nahi hua," said the singer, and then danced with the crowd. As the crowd kept singing along with her, she added, "You guys are the best. Thank you for loving me, and trust me, this is the best night ever."
 
 
 
  
  Dance all night: The crowd grooves to Sunidhi’s hit numbers (BCCL)
 
 
 
 
 The students, who were excited about Sunidhi’s performance, did not mind waiting for hours for her to start singing. "Her performance is breathtaking. She has been my idol since I was a kid. I am part of the music society of DTU, so it is just overwhelming to see her perform. I was here three hours prior to her performance and trust me, I did not mind waiting for her," said Shambhavi Mishra, a second-year student of Environmental Engineering at DTU.
 
 Sheikh Farhan Raza, the vice-president of the students' union, added, "She is the best performer, that is why we invited her. It feels great to see that students are enjoying, it is a good start for our fest."
 
