VARANASI: The crowd that greeted Prime Minister Narendra
  on Sunday was as huge as the response to his “jan darshan” on Saturday, even though it began two hours after its scheduled time of 3pm.

 As on Saturday, 
  was led by 
  shouting slogans like, “Ek hi naara, ek hi naam, Jai Shri Ram, Jai Shri Ram”, and “Har har Modi, ghar ghar Modi”.
 
 People waited for hours on the terraces of their homes and other establishments to catch a glimpse of the PM, who represents Varanasi in the  .
 
 When 
  , an area with a considerable Muslim population, Modi spotted a girl standing with her family members and aiming a garland at him. Much to her excitement, the PM whisked the garland from her hands, a gesture that earned loud applause from the huge crowd moving along with his cavalcade.
 
 “Have you seen any MP frequenting his Lok Sabha constituency as much as  , and that too when he is Prime Minister,” Teliyabagh resident Harishanker Yadav asked while waiting to see Modi go by. Earlier a   supporter, Yadav switched to   when Modi was elected.
 
 Later, the PM spotted a man trying to throw a shawl at him and made it a point to accept it from him, along with an application. Speaking to TOI, Teliyabagh resident Satish Kumar said, “It’s the Modi magic doing wonders everywhere.”
 
 “Modiji has brought fame to Varanasi,” said Amarjeet Singh, resident of Dharmshala area. “And believe me, despite media reports that demonetisation will have a negative impact on BJP, it has done wonders and has helped in polarising the pro-poor against the pro-rich,” he added. At 7.20pm, the roadshow reached Maldahiya Crossing, its point of culmination.
 
 The cavalcade then entered the historic Kashi Vidya Peeth, where he made an address. Hitting out at political dynasts, Modi said that it was because of his “long struggle” to reach the position of the PM that he could take the “strong decision” to demonetise two high-value denominations.
 
 He also sought to assure people that the ensuing raids only targeted the dishonest. “The honest have nothing to fear,” he added.
 
 
