HYDERABAD: With the Hyderabad city police enforcing a ban on serving hookah at coffee shops and other such spaces, hundreds of youth who were engaged in the service now stare at a bleak future.

 Estimates from those in the business peg the number of coffee shops and other spaces serving hookah in and around Banjara Hills, Jubilee Hills and other affluent suburbs at 90.Once a lucrative business, contracts were given to youngsters to supply hookahs, also known as sheeshas. “Each contractor usually served between five and eight coffee shops and parlours.Apart from providing paraphernalia (flavour, coal and sheeshas), they arranged for young servers who used to prepa re the hookah. The number of boys employed was between five and 30, depending on the number of shifts at each place,“ a proprietor of a coffee shop in   said.
 
 Business owners pointed out that several servers who have been badly hit by the ban were students seeking to augment the family income. Most of these boys who worked the night shift went to colleges in the day.They were paid between `12,000 and `15,000 per month. Those on contracts made a commission.
 
 The case of  , is an indicator of the impact of the ban. The 28-year old started more than seven years ago as a server at one of the coffee shops in Banjara Hills.“This is the only job that I know. I lost my parents and there are a lot of responsibilities on me. The ban has made it very difficult. I tried my hand at other jobs such as a textile salesman in a shop in Abids. But it didn't work,“ he said.
 
 For their part, the cops said that the move is a result of a directive issued by the  .An excerpt from the notification reads: “No service shall be allowed in any smoking area or space provided for smoking.“
 
 A senior cop, who did not wish to be identified, said that while people are allowed to smoke in earmarked smoking spaces in airports, the notification prohibits smoking services being provided in such areas.
 
 Despite sections of coffee shop owners claiming that the notification is has been misrepresented, cops maintained that the missive is clear. “There is no misrepresentation. The notification clearly states that no service should be provided in smoking spaces. Providing hookah service is not permitted now,“ the cop said.
 
 When it was brought to his attention that scores of youths have lost their livelihoods, he said that the city police would collaborate with the  , which organises job fairs and provides vocational training. “We will most certainly look into their rehabilitation,“ he said.
 
