KOLKATA: Even as mayor   pushes for the carving out of a big chunk of land, which includes the  , from   to access funds from multilateral agencies like the   (ADB), green activists warn the move will be disastrous for the Ramsar site that has already shrunk considerably due to rampant encroachment in the past two decades.

 Sources said the mayor, who is also the environment minister and chairman of the East Kolkata Wetlands Management Authority (EKWMA), wanted to unlock land that is currently priceless in ecological terms but not quite so otherwise as no international lending agency will fund a project that encroaches into a Ramsar site. 
 
 “The Ramsar tag may have no value to Chatterjee, who has openly said that it’s an impediment to development. But for multilateral banks, financing a project at a Ramsar site will mean international condemnation and even punitive measures. No one will do that. Realising this, the mayor now wants to take land out of the Ramsar site so that his dream projects can be financed,” a green activist said. 
 
 Sources in KMC said ADB was looking at the Dhapa project afresh following assurance from the mayor’s office that it would be delinked from the Ramsar site. Apart from this project that will require at least a couple of hundred crores, a flyover proposed through the wetlands requiring several hundred crores will also require international funding. 
 
 That, environmentalists warn, will be disastrous for   as it will set a precedent that will then open the floodgates for similar action in future. “The wetlands are an interconnected, fragile ecosystem. You cannot carve out a 100 acre parcel and build concrete structures without destroying the larger system,” said Bonani Kakkar of Public. 
 
 Dhrubajyoti Ghosh, who is in the EKWMA committee, concedes that the flyover proposed will be damaging for the wetland. “The 146 piers that have to be constructed on the eight bheris will require fish farms to be shut for at least two years. Once they leave, it will be very difficult to return. These bheris — some of the biggest in EKW — are crucial for the wetlands’ survival,” he said.
 
 From 264 bheris in 1997, 62 had disappeared altogether by 2015. But more alarmingly, over 100 bheris have stopped functioning in the past two decades. According to activists, around 160-170 bheris are currently functional. But they fear that if the large ones located in   mouja go, it will trigger panic, leading to largescale exodus.
 
 “An integrated waste management plan was the need of the hour. It would include not only what to do with our solid waste but also how to reduce and recycle the waste. The idea is to make the city and our lifestyle more sustainable by using the political mandate to influence waste generation and disposal behaviour. Otherwise, we will be perpetually seeking more and more land for dumping. How much effort has the KMC put into segregation at source or stopping the use of thin plastic bags? Other cities don’t have wetlands for dumping. Just because we are blessed by nature, it doesn’t mean that we should abuse our environmental asset. Around the world, the practice of centralised waste dumping has been replaced by smaller sites. We should learn from these best practices,” Kakkar said. 
 
 Even if EKWMA under the new dispensation chooses to ignore the judgment, article 10 of the EKW Act states change in land use can only happen to benefit the local environment. The Central Wetlands Rules, too, specifically prohibits dumping of garbage in the wetlands. 
 
 
