PUNE: The admission process to standard XI will start after May 25, instead of the first week of May as is the usual practice, officials from the deputy director of education Pune division, said. 

 A new agency will conduct the centralised online admission process, they added. The information booklets will be made available in May. The deputy director’s office, in a circular issued last month, had said that forms for online admission to standard XI will be filled by the respective schools or zonal centres instead of individually or at cyber cafes.
 
 “The admission dates will be the same across the state for the centralized online admission to standard XI. We can plan the entire process better in time. Moreover, there isn’t much response during the initial phase. It is not as if the admission process once it starts will be delayed or anything like that,”  , assistant deputy director of education, Pune division, said.
 
 Since a new agency is looking after the online admission process and hence time will be required for registration of colleges and other procedures. “The   this time will start after May 25. The work of printing of information booklets is going on and will be available to students on time. There no need to worry,” said Raut.
 
 Since the last year, there were many complaints from parents regarding excessive fees that cyber cafes sought to fill up online admission forms for standard XI.
 
 This year, the education department has decided that principals and the respective zonal centres will fill up the online admission forms. The caste verification and approvals have to be done by the respective school principals or zonal heads. 
 
 Pune and   have been divided into nine zones. A detailed list of zones and other information has been provided in the circular which was issued early last month and has been uploaded on the official website of deputy director of education for Pune division.
 
 In case of any complaints regarding admission and form-filling that the grievance redressal cells receive from the parents, the respective principal will be held responsible. The form this time too will be divided into two parts. The part 2 of the online admission form should be filled by the students after the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education declares the results for online.
 
