LUCKNOW: Inaugurating the two-day working committee meeting of the UP BJP at   on Monday,   said he and most of his   were  , yet they are not weaker than anyone.

 “We are pure vegetarian eating not even onion and garlic, so are we low on vigour,” said Yogi amid applause from the gathering at the inaugural session of the two-day working committee meeting of the UP BJP that began in Lucknow at Scientific Convention Centre.
 
 Yogi continued, “UP government ministers begin their duty from 7am and work till 1am. How can a person who works for such long hours be weak,” the chief minister asked. His comment, in the backdrop of ban on slaughterhouses and a related argument that the resultant scarcity of meat was depriving people of cheap, healthy food, went viral on social media.
 
 Yogi, on the occasion, also announced that Rs 4,000 crore had been sanctioned by the Centre under Namami Gange project. With this, pilgrims visiting Ardh Kumbh in Allahabad in 2019 would be able to see a cleaner Ganga, he said.
 
 Recounting the second important achievement of the new government, the chief minister said the BJP government ensured anti-Romeo squads were formed and began working effectively within 24 hours of the government formation.
 
 Beginning his speech on a lighter note, Yogi said there was curiosity around the world over what ‘namoona’ (character) Modi had appointed UP chief minister. Reminding the party workers that they had more responsibility than before since the BJP was in power now, he said it was the moral responsibility of party workers to ensure that people’s trust in the government remained intact. He asked them to be cautious and not to take law in their hands.
 
 Only those who would tread the path of development and patriotism would survive, said Yogi, adding that the government was making every effort to bring holistic changes in the work culture of the government. Emphasising on cleanliness, the chief minister said Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s focus on ‘swacchhata abhiyan’ was meant to make people healthier and stronger.
 
 Urging party workers to change the tradition of giving flowers and bouquets to the leaders, the chief minister said soon all ministers in charge would begin visiting the districts they have been given responsibility of. The party workers instead of welcoming them with flowers should clean one locality or village and take the visiting minister along to show it.
 
 After putting in efforts, they can also ask the minister in charge to do the needful in their area, Yogi said and added that soon he would also begin touring divisions and review the progress of development works.
 
 The four-time MP from the Gorakhpur said his government was determined to end “mafia raj”. Similarly, UP government is focussing on transparency and for this, every tender, even if it is of Rs 1 lakh would be issued through e-tendering.
 
 Elaborating on various policies, Yogi said a new mining, excise and industrial policy would soon be announced. Stressing the mining policy, he said the UP government has decided to link mining with satellite imaging in a bid to ensure transparency.
 
 Hitting out at previous governments in the state, Yogi said the state of affairs in mining department has been such that a minister used to earn more than the total revenue of the government.
 
 “Government will take tough action against anybody who tries to meddle with law and order in the state,” he said.
 
 
