 is a State which once collectively forced its Finance Minister to resign, on corruption charges. While one can view it as proof of underlying corruption in the system, it also shows that the citizens have no tolerance for   either. And that is what a recent   has proved; that Kerala is actually one of the   states in the country, second only to Himachal Pradesh! The survey was conducted by the Centre for Media Studies on the basis of people’s experience in paying bribes for public services, and covered around 150 households from at least two districts each of 20 states, spread across urban and rural locations.

 While Karnataka tops the list with 77% of respondents saying that they had to pay bribes to public servants, only 4% among Malayalis said the same. The reasons for the low levels of corruption in Kerala could be many, say officials, ranging from an ever vigilant media to high literacy rates because of which the citizens are more aware of their rights. At the same time, it doesn’t mean that Kerala is 100% corruption free, they add, maybe only better among the lot. Whichever the case, it’s certainly something God’s Own Country can be proud of, with the Chief Minister   announcing that every three months, an anti-corruption index will be published, in order to do away with the malpractice altogether. 
 
 
 
 The strength of our culture and family values might be a reason for the lower levels of corruption here. Education too might be a factor. The state with the highest literacy may also have the highest awareness of values. Sadly, “least corrupt” does not mean “uncorrupt”. We still have a long way to go. Integrity is inculcated; corruption is learned. But we still teach our children to be honest.
 
 
 
 I am not surprised about the rating at all. It’s a known fact that the corruption rate in Kerala is nothing compared to other states. We are a service class society and everybody here works for the Government. We do not have big industries or construction business that will trigger the illegal money flow in a large amount. I have worked in Maharashtra and Rajasthan, which have big industrial areas. People have to run around for approvals and certifications and the easiest way to get the procedures done is bribing the officials. I understood that things are transparent in Kerala when I first came here in 1986. However, Malayalis still feel that Kerala is corrupt as they are not aware of what is happening outside.
 
 
 
 Compared to northern states and our neighbours especially Karnataka and Tamil Nadu, Kerala is less corrupt. In fact people who own properties in Tamil Nadu inform me that in Kerala, the bribes are only 10 % of what they demand in Tamil Nadu. But the difference is that, in Tamil Nadu, the work gets done while in Kerala, it is not always so. I feel that the factors behind this achievement in Kerala could be the high literacy rates, awareness about one’s rights and the presence of a vigilant media. None of these by itself would stop corruption but when put together, they help in lowering the overall corruption levels. Malayalis still complain about corruption but that is because they expect total honesty.
 
 
 
 My first job posting was in Bangalore. I was riding a Maharashtra-registered bike in Karnataka, and the cops had a serious problem with that, stopping me at every junction and asking for NOC of the vehicle. I couldn’t do that because I would be transferred in about six months to another State. So, the quick fix was to pay `100 to them. There was this one time where a cop simply pulled me out at a traffic signal and asked for money. For them, it’s an everyday affair.
 
 When I got my transfer to Trivandrum, I thought this would be the case here too. But that went for a toss the first day itself, and the traffic cop levied a fine of Rs 100 the first time and then `300 a week later. I didn’t even think of offering a bribe. It was like the cops here get a kick out of levying fines rather than taking bribes. This also forced me to get my vehicle re-registered and the process was also seamless. In spite of me being a non-Malayali, I didn’t have to approach an agent to do the work for me, I got the list of documents mentioned in the RTO website and the person at the counter helped me with the rest.
 
 
 
 I welcome the report. But the aim of the government is not to reduce corruption but to do away with it completely. The government has made the vigilance system more independent and the governance more transparent. As part of it, we have started measures to find out corruption in various government departments led by the Research and Training Wing of the Vigilance Anti-corruption Bureau. Every three months, we will find out the various instances of corruption and publish an anti-corruption index, and thus eliminate corruption as a whole. 
 
 
 
 From my experience, Karnataka is way more corrupt than Kerala. When I bought my apartment in Bangalore, in spite of having all the required documents, I was forced to pay a lump sum to the officials. When I asked why, their reply was to fast-track the process or else I would have to wait for years before they cleared my application. We have to pay bribes to each and every official here. When my dad cleared his driving test, the driving school had asked for a ‘mandatory’ amount to be paid to the RTO official and only then the licence would be issued. Similarly, to get a refilled gas cylinder, even if we pay online, the supplier demands kaimadakku. Having lived in Kerala for 26 years before moving to Bangalore, I can assure you that such things are rare in Kerala. The officials and even people are more upfront and straightforward. 
 
 
 
 NRIs are often subjected to harassment by customs officials – be it when they come for vacations or return to India for good. On multiple occasions, whenever I brought a high-end TV or an electronic device, to Kerala, customs duty was levied for the goods. While the official would say that I have to pay the entire amount, the guy from baggage handling would pull me aside and tell me that if I offer him a small amount and he would ‘take care of it’. Once a duty of Rs 12,000 was levied for a 50 inch LED TV but all I had to pay was Rs 3,000 as bribe to the baggage handling guy. When I returned to India from the UAE for good, the customs levied a duty of `1 lakh on the cargo, but I settled it for Rs 15,000, by paying the amount to the guy from the cargo agency who then split it between the customs officials and his managers.
 
 
 
 When I applied to get my passport renewed in Kerala last year, I came across a stumbling block. My stay away from home for one year when I was studying in Chennai, was not mentioned in my application. The cop who turned up for my passport verification pointed it out and my passport was blacklisted. I had to run around for two weeks to get that sorted out. However, there was no question of getting it done by paying a bribe. My friends from Bangalore, however, told me that this wouldn’t have happened there because the cops who come for verification are usually paid `500, which is the ‘accepted norm’ so they would overlook any discrepancies in the application.
 
 
 
 Malayalis have always been ready to fight corruption, thanks in large part to the vigilant media and education. I have noticed that in Hyderabad, where I am based, people aren’t perturbed when it comes to paying up bribes. It’s become a routine affair that they don’t even question. The officials in Kerala are also more fair and honest than in the other states. However, I would also say that until and unless there is political influence or a support, it would be tough to get through official procedures in any part of the country including in Kerala.
 
