AMRITSAR: After the refusal of   by Congress party,   chose to contest independently that too from Amritsar East assembly constituency, one of the ‘safest’ considered constituency for Congress from where former BJP member of Parliament Navjot Singh Sidhu is contesting elections for the first time. On the last day of campaigning, Manna dared   to accept his challenge for a debate solely on the issue of development, which Sidhu’s wife Navjot Kaur Sidhu, sitting MLA who had won on BJP’s ticket last time, claims to have been unprecedented in the constituency.

 
 A. Public will tell on March 11 where I stand. I am serving people of this constituency for over two decades and everyone knows me very well. Sidhu is here for a week or two weeks and eventually he will go back to Mumbai. I dare Sidhu and for that matter Sidhu couple to have a debate with me on the issue of development in the constituency. I have personally mobilized funds for various development works and have sat on roads for people’s issues. East constituency needs politicians attention. Go and visit places like Vallaha, Verka, Mudhal, Kallar etc. and you will see sewerage water in the houses.
 
 
 A. If the MLA Navjot Kaur Sidhu shows me the development, I will withdraw my challenge and extend support to her husband. Making or repairing roads or drains is not called development. This is people’s tax money which is returned to them in kind and which is also any government’s responsibility. We need to see the ratio of unemployment, medical and educational facilities in the constituency, which is a far cry here. And above all Sidhu himself is not even aware of the constituency himself. Last time Navjot Kaur Sidhu had contested the elections and her husband canvassed in the constituency seeking votes for her in his name and it’s vice versa this time.
 
 
 A. A section of Congress leadership thought that they will be benefited with Sidhu joining them but it is not so. This Sidhu is not the Sidhu who was in BJP, he was then a star campaigner but now he is a turncoat. I am banking on people’s votes for my work alone. I don’t have enough money to bear expenses and have sold my car. Not only Sidhu, but I don’t consider BJP, as well as AAP's candidate anywhere in competition since both of them are new to the constituency.
 
