HYDERABAD: Badminton ace PV   was just 21 when she won the Olympic silver and it is natural that she desires to hit gold in the next Olympics. Among her other goals are winning the World championship crown and an All England title. With such an impressive portfolio as a player, why did Sindhu accept the job of a deputy collector with the Andhra Pradesh government? 

 Apart from badminton, Sindhu seems to have other surprising goals in life and one of them is to serve the people. "People have doubts whether I will take up this job as a collector as I am having an impressive badminton career. I want to make it clear that I am very keen on becoming a collector. It's a huge honour to take up such a big post. In that capacity I can do so many things and I want to serve the people. That is the reason I did not hesitate to accept this post once the AP government offered me and even my parents wanted me to take up that job," the China Open champion said.
 
 "I still have at least 7 to 10 years of badminton left. Thereafter, I would become a full time government employee. I am confident of doing justice to the job with the assistance of senior officers. I know it would be very interesting," said Sindhu. 
 
 An ideal career for a top shuttler like Sindhu is to become a coach like her guru   but the champion shuttler says she has no interest in coaching. "I am not interested in coaching. I don't think I will become a coach," she added.
 
 As a deputy collector, which is the top state government direct recruitment post in AP, Sindhu will become the district collector within 10 to 12 years. A deputy collector in AP will also become conferred IAS within 15 years. So Sindhu can one day become an IAS officer. 
 
 
 
 Defending champions China, Korea and Japan registered victories on the first day of the   team event in Gold Coast, Australia, on Sunday. 
 
 In Group 1A, China defeated Hong Kong China 4-1. China's world No.1 mixed doubles team Chen Qingchen/Zheng Siwei suffered a shocking loss against world No.15 Hong Kong pair of   Man/Tse Ying Suet 21-10, 16-21, 18-21. In Group 1B, Korea trounced Russia 4-1 and in Group 1C Japan drubbed Germany 4-1. 
 
 Meanwhile, India will take on Germany in Group 1D tie on Monday. 
 
