THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: On Saturday, state police chief   issued a circular insisting that officers in the police department must strictly comply by Section 173 (2) of CrPC, which stipulates that accused in grave crimes must be chargesheeted within 60 to 90 days of arrest. 

 In a related statement issued, Behera said that   the accused on time would result in a situation where the accused could  . There had been instances where persons got out of jail in similar fashion and later upset the trial against them either by absconding or by intimidating key witnesses in the case.
 
 The DGP also said that in many cases, chargesheet could not be prepared on time because there was a delay in getting forensic test results on time. He urged the forensic director to give priority to the tests in case of grave crimes so that the department could facilitate preparation of charge-sheet on time.
 
 However, the DGP warned that in cases where an officer failed to file the chargesheet owing to unjustifiable reasons, the officer will face disciplinary measures. "  can take appropriate action in such cases," Behera said.
 
 Recently, Pettah CI SY Suresh, under Thiruvananthapuram city police, was placed under suspension on account of dereliction of duty after he failed to submit the chargesheet against the accused in a gangland murder case. His action resulted in the accused getting bail. The suspension order was issued on the same day, the accused were granted bail.
 
 A day ago, the DGP had issued another circular directing policemen to be more careful while dealing with cases that involve trespassing. There were two sections under IPC (451 and 452) that pertain to trespassing. While section 451 is a bailable offence charged in cases of unplanned and unarmed attacks whereas section 452, which is a non-bailable offence. The second one is used in cases of planned attacks using weapons. It has been noticed that there were several cases in which station house officers (SHO) used section 452 instead of section 451, causing great difficulties to the accused. The high court too had recently made a remark in this regard. Hence a detailed probe was needed before invoking section 452 of the IPC, the circular said.
 
 
