MUMBAI: One and a half years after a cylinder blast at a hotel in Kurla killed eight people including seven collegians, the BMC has, to some extent, accepted the responsibility.

 Deputy municipal commissioner   told the   on Monday that the civic body has held two inspectors from the   of L Ward guilty and issued a showcase notice to them, asking them why action should not be initiated against them.
 
 Following the incident in October 2015, the home department had ordered a high-level inquiry. Interestingly, all agencies concerned had passed the buck. While a forensic science laboratory report stated that it was not clear if it was a  , the fire brigade said gas leakage had caused the blast. However, HPCL said there was no fault in the cylinder and there was possibility of short-circuit. But the PWD said that as the entire mezzanine floor was gutted, they could not ascertain the cause of fire.
 
 The collector recently told the court that the accident was due to a cylinder blast and said that every family was entitled for a compensation of Rs 1 lakh. The court was also informed that the amount had come from the chief minister's relief fund and had been deposited in the Kurla Tehsildar's bank account for disbursement.
 "As per the public liability Insurance Act, the company, that is the HPCL that provided illegal gas cylinder to the hotel, is responsible to a large extent and they were supposed to pay a sum of Rs 40 lakh compensation," said activist and advocate Godfrey Pimenta who has been fighting for the victim's families. Pimenta said he will soon move the HC to seek action against those responsible for the accident. "We want all the agencies to be collectively held responsible."
 
 The victims' families have slammed the meagre compensation. "We are not hungry for money, but they have made a joke out of us. This hotel has been shut but there are several other illegal units mushrooming and the government will sleep until there is another tragedy." said Mustaq Sultan, father of Taha Mustaq, one of the students who had died in the incident.
 
 Officials from the collector's office said that since the reason of the fire was not known yet, the compensation amount couldn t be decided on. "Since the incident has occurred long ago, that is we decided to extend some relief to them. Once the cause is clear, a decision will be taken on the remaining amount," said an official.
 (Inputs by Bhavika Jain).
 
