BATHINDA: Admissions to the newly-added classes in government schools in Bathinda and Mansa constituencies have not been carried out in the current academic session. These were upgraded just before the model code of conduct came into force for the assembly elections in  . Lack of teachers and infrastructure are being cited as the reasons for the decision.

 As many as 22 schools were upgraded from middle to high and from high to higher secondary by the   minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal just days ahead of the poll code coming into force on January 4. Sources said the schools were upgraded without proper infrastructure and adequate number of teachers and it was termed as a political move keeping an eye on the assembly polls.
 
 A senior   leader said that, “The Congress government is not against upgrading of schools but first the infrastructure needs to be created,” he maintained.
 
 Director, public instructions (secondary), Sukhdev Singh Kahlon said that, “The admissions to new classes in 22 schools ordered to be upgraded have been stopped. The upgradation of these schools is under review. As the upgradation of these schools was to take place from April 1, the new government has stopped this to review infrastructure upgradation.”
 
 “The high schools were upgraded to higher secondary at Jajal, Bandi, Harraipur, Malkana, Gill Kalan, Bhumndar and Nehia Wala villages whereas middle schools of Bugra, Bir Talaab, Chaoke and Gurusar Senewala were upgraded to high schools in the last week of December. Admission to upgraded classes in these schools has not been carried out as per the orders of higher authorities,” said   (secondary) Khushbir Singh.
 
 Meanwhile, former Punjab education minister Daljit Singh Cheema criticised the government move to stop admissions in newly-added classes of upgraded schools. He said that, “The schools were upgraded as per norms after fulfilling all conditions. It is purely a politically-motivated decision to stop admissions in these schools.”
 
