PANAJI: Chief minister   on Monday assured liquor traders that the state would file a petition before the Supreme   seeking a review of the verdict passed on December 15, ordering the closure of   and liquor outlets along national and state highways by March 31.

 Speaking to reporters, Parsekar went on to question how the  , which has implications for each state, could have been passed by the apex court without taking states and stakeholders into consideration. 
 
 “When an order with such implications is passed, the Supreme Court should have made other states party to the case. The order should have been passed after discussions with stakeholders,” Parsekar said.
 
 Parsekar informed reporters that Goa wasn’t a respondent or party to the case filed before the Supreme Court. 
 
 The three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice T S Thakur had passed its order that “licences of existing bars and liquor retailers located 500 meters around state and national highways should not be renewed beyond March 31”.
 
 “Before giving the order, at least a notice should have been sent to chief secretaries of all the states,” the chief minister said.
 
 “Based on advice from the advocate general, we will file an application. I cannot title or label the petition, but some kind of reconsideration of the decision or review application has to reach the Supreme Court,” Parsekar said.
 
  “Practically every Goan restaurant serves alcohol and possess liquor licenses, I don’t know if this has been brought to the notice of the Supreme Court,” he said, adding that advocate general Saresh Lotlikar would give his opinion on the matter in the days to come.
 
 “Court orders, till a stay is given, are binding on the government to implement. We cannot violate the order but we have time till April 1. Counting of votes will happen on March 11 and within a week, the new government will be in place and the issue should be resolved,” Parsekar assured.
 
 He claimed that the Supreme Court order came “barely days before the model code of conduct came into force in Goa and due to the strictures of the code of conduct, no policy decision could be taken by the state government”. The court order was released on December 16, 2016, while the election code of conduct was announced and came into force on January 4, 2017. 
 
  “Any new order has to be implemented by the new government and the verdict should have taken into account the state’s interest. Goa is a tourist state and national highways go through the entire state, such is Goa’s geographic condition. And that is why this order has a major impact on the industry,” he added.
 
 Parsekar clarified that there was no proposal to reclassify state highways into district highways.
 
 
