Prakash Singh, who has served as DG of   and police chief of   and Assam, was appointed by the Haryana government to probe the role of police and civil administration officials during the Jat quota stir violence in February 2016. In all, 30 persons were killed and 324 persons, including 67 security personnel, injured across the state. The commission had on May 13, 2015, indicted 90 officials in its 451-page report submitted to Haryana chief minister  . A year on, the former IPS officer tells TOI's Sanjeev Verma that the state government delaying action and diluting his report.

 
 
 I would say, Haryana government has implemented my recommendations partially.On the basis of my recommendations, the state had transferred then additional chief secretary of home department as well as then DGP .I have been told that they have also issued show cause notices to some police and administrative officers. Subsequently, in the face of political pressure, the state gover nment took action `naam ke vaste'. I was told by earlier DGP K P Singh that they have taken some follow up action on my report like strengthening of the anti-riot system.
 
 
 
 Technically, an employee should not be kept under suspension for a long time. Howev er, at the same time, the departmental inquiry should have been completed against the delinquent officials at the earliest. Thereafter appropriate action should have been taken against them based on the findings.
 
 Inquiry ordered against then Rohtak IG Shrikant Jadhav in December last year is yet to be completed and no action has been taken against the four IAS officers named in your report.
 
 One can only regret that the inquiry has taken such a long time even after my detailed report. This way, the state government would succeed in procrastinating its action against the guilty and the matter would die its natural death. Because of political pressure, even the   report on Babri Masjid demolition has not been acted upon for more than 20 years.
 
 
 
 
 These days, officers have political lobbies. Haryana politicians had also tried to put pressure on me to protect their favourites. Now, the same politicians would be pressuring the state government to not to act ag ainst those officers.What will the CM Manohar Lal Khattar do then?
 
 Then DGP  , who according to your report had failed to perform during the violence, has been appointed as chief information commissioner after retirement. Your comments.
 
 I would not comment on that.`CIC ka kaam to kalam ghisne ka ha'. Being the DGP of the state, he was the commander of the police force a n d s h o u l d h ave a c t e d promptly to fill the gaps on the field during such a mass violence. He shouldn't have been sitting in Chandigarh through it all.
 
 
 
 
 I don't think they disrespect ed me. Across India, if any commission's findings are not politically convenient, those would either be de layed or not imple mented. However, Haryana did a lit tl e b e t te r t h an Andhra Pradesh where I had submit where I had submitted a report in 2004, regarding secu rity lapses during an attack on then chief minister  .
 
 
 
 
 It is highly regrettable. Now, it is for the Supreme Court to take action. During the tenure of the present Chief Justice of India (CJI) and the earlier CJI, the matter has not even been listed for hearing. On the other, the Supreme Court had issued notices to all the states and Union territories in a related PIL seeking directions for filling up vacant posts in police departments as this matter was less controversial.
 
 
 
 
 My contempt application is also pending in the Supreme Court since past 4-5 years. No contempt notices has been issued. Whereas, there have been many less important issues on which the Supreme Court had issued contempt notices. I suggest that the Supreme Court should take exemplary action against some states so that other states also wake up.
 
 
 
 
 Since I have not visited Haryana recently, I won't be able to say much on this. It will depend on how much reinforcement the state police have done. I think, they should be in a better position if they have learnt some lessons.
 
