GURGAON:   always meets you with a smile on the golf course but the grin grows a little bit wider when he walks off the ninth green with the sole lead on Day 2 of the $1.75m  . Make that clubhouse lead, thanks to the 2 hr 40 min delay, but doesn't matter. Also, forget the fact a birdie chance lipped out on the final hole, since there is plenty to celebrate. 

 “I had a good round today, so I can't complain,“ the defending champion says after his 5-under 67 outing, admitting, “If I had a bad round, then I would have been frustrated.“
 
 Honesty is the best policy, and SSP vouches for that. Has he adopted any particular strategy on this tricky   course? “Hit straight, putt well,” he says, breaking out into laughter. “Simple, isn't it?” Home or the Indian Open always brings out the best in him. Having won four big events in Delhi and its vicinity, including the 2011 Avantha Masters here at DLF GCC's old   course, the 38-year-old agrees. “I won in Manila too, remember? But maybe I feel more confident here. And having won this event last year, I feel very positive.”
 
 This enchanting course has its hidden mysteries with wide bunkers, massive water bodies, undulating greens and yes, the narrow fairways. The Asian and Indian golfers stressed on how different the DLF GCC offering is from the traditional hosts Delhi Golf Club but Chawrasia draws on the similarities. “I'm playing it the same as I play the DGC. I have taken the conservative approach, you will see no aggression from me because if you miss the fairways, it can be punishing.”
 
 So focused is the Kolkatan he fails to remember his Greens in Regulation. He smiles again. “I'll have to check.” It's 1418 by the way. But he recalls the long putts he recorded on the 5th and 8th. “A 25-footer on 5 and a birdie from 20 ft on 8th, you can say my putting was fine today.”
 
 Sometimes, it is important to save or make pars. Returning a bogey-free score on Friday, he was content with a series of pars on the front nine on Thursday before a few ups and downs, finishing his weather-delayed round in the morning on even par. There was a reprieve this afternoon as the hooter sounded for a lightning threat delay just as he was submitting the card. “I was concentrating so hard on every shot that I did not notice the dark clouds until my round was over.”
 
 Waking up at 4am, he still had no problem unlike his playing partner   who came out to complete his first round with a 66 only to lose momentum as the morning progressed.
 
 Two-over in the second, the gap is still just one stroke. “Towards the end I was getting a bit tired,” the Cheshire golfer says. He found the bunker and three-putted on the long, island 5th green for a double bogey. “I also four-putted eighth and missed a short one on the ninth, so I have wasted three or four shots there.”
 
 The tables can turn any time, and SSP is aware of that. “Two more days to go,” he reminds everyone.
 
