THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The speciality of this thatukada is aloo paratha, its coriander-flavoured consistency an instant hit with hundreds of outstation techies from nearby Technopark yearning for something that reminds them of home. But what makes this tarpaulin-roofed  , one among dime a dozen that dot the busy road in Kariavattom, even more special is the spicy story of the young couple who runs it.

 Sneha Limbgaomkar defied her parents to marry  , with the   having first befriended the   over Orkut, and the couple moved to Kerala when Sneha got a doctoral research fellowship in Kerala University. But with her modest financial grant having run out, she and her husband, a graduate in social work, started running the eatery so that she obtains her PhD and the couple fulfil their dream of emigrating to Germany.
 
 The wayside eatery was a logical option. Premshankar, who had quit his job at CAG office in Delhi to come and stay with Sneha, loves cooking. “We are not just meeting our daily needs with this but saving money so that she could be a scientist. Maybe, in future, I could even open a restaurant," says Premshankar. It's been six years since they married, and they have been putting off many things, honeymoon included. They know they need to save money and Sneha joins her husband at the tava straight from university every evening, without even bothering to freshen up at their one-room rented house, hardly 10 minutes' walk from the campus, helping him with the parathas, omelettes and dosas.
 
 If Two States were to be remade either as a film or as a book, Premshankar and Sneha could well be the leading protagonists. There were many twists and turns to their improbable romance, a time the couple now describe as “saason ki awaa“.“He would ring me from an unknown number. All I could hear was this breath. I knew it was him," says Sneha who came to Kerala in 2014 for her MPhil course and has stayed here since. It didn't take long before they convinced their parents and got married again with their blessings in 2016.
 
 Situated only two kilometres from Technopark, Kerala's IT hub, Sneha and Premshankar's menu, that includes a lot of north Indian dishes, have an assured fan following.
 
 
 
 
