Margao: Three gram sabhas in Salcete taluka on Sunday raised up the issue of poor electricity supply to their villages.

 Macazana: Irked with the frequent power fluctuations in the village, Macazana locals vented out their frustration. Sarpanch Agnelo D’Costa said, “The gramsabha members have resolved to inform the local MLA Clafascio Dias to convene a meeting with the electricity department engineers to solve this issue as the power supply keeps fluctuating for two-three hours, daily. The electricity department personnel have also failed to undertake the exercise of trimming tree branches that are obstructing electricity poles”. “The gram sabha also proposed to install a high mast lamp near St Francis Xavier Church, under the Goa state infrastructure development corporation,” D’Costa said. Panchayat member Caitan Vaz said, “A resolution was passed regarding the installation of a mobile phone tower within the church property. Another resolution was also passed regarding the construction of the railway overbridge to minimize the hardships faced by the public at the Guirdolim railway crossings”.
 
 Aquem-Baixo: Power and garbage woes dominated the Aquem-Baixo gram sabha meeting held on Sunday. “Irked with the frequent power fluctuations, villagers have demanded that the panchayat write to power minister Pandurang Madkaikar to construct two more transformers in the village. It was also decided to write to health minister Vishwajit Rane and directorate of health services to reschedule timings of the Navelim health centre, since senior citizens face hardships as they have to wait for hours on fasting stomach for various medical tests. It was also decided to seek one of the two ambulances posted at the Navelim health centre for the Aquem-Baixo village as it covers a vast area of Rumdamoll, Davorlim and Dicarpale,” sarpanch Siddesh Bhagat told TOI.
 
 Camurlim: Non-functioning LED street lights, murky water being supplied by the PWD and the terrible state of the NH-5 route dominated the proceedings of the Camurlim gram sabha held on Sunday. Sarpanch Basilio Fernandes told TOI that “The gram sabha members objected to undertaking the proposal of the solar lights by availing the panchayat funds and sought that it be done by government funding or under the MP funds. The non-functioning LED street lights was also discussed. No maintenance is done of the faulty fixtures by the electricity department who are only indulging in blame games of accusing the underground cabling contractor. Another issue deliberated was that when the water pipeline breaks down, residents receive muddy water”. 
 
 
