Mumbai: The markets regulator   has written to the audit committees of seven Tata companies to clarify on   lapses alleged by ousted chairman  .

 Separately, Sebi has also written to the seven   companies — TCS, Tata Motors, Tata Steel, Tata Power, Tata Chemicals, Indian Hotels and Tata Global Beverages — to clarify if they had violated any rules under Prevention of   by sharing board agenda items and strategy documents with the trustees of Tata Trusts and  . 
 
 After Mistry was sacked as the chairman of Tata Sons on October 24 last year, he had written to the board of directors of Tata Sons, trustees of Tata Trusts and also the shareholders of the seven Tata companies about the corporate governance issues. All listed companies, including the directors on their boards, have to adhere to strict corporate governance rules.
 
 A TCS spokesperson said that the company hasn’t received any letter from Sebi. A Tata Group official said that some of the Tata companies have received a letter from the regulator. The official declined to reveal the names of the Tata companies. 
 
 A few weeks after Mistry was sacked, Sebi had written to the compliance officers at each of the seven companies to clarify their stand on the allegations made by Mistry about the corporate governance standards, regulatory sources said. “The replies from the compliance officers were not satisfactory. So we wrote to the audit committees of these companies to clarify their stand on the allegations made by Mistry,” a source said. “We have also asked these companies if they had violated insider trading rules, as alleged by Mistry,” the source said. 
 
 An audit committee of a listed company consists of a minimum of three directors with independent directors forming the majority.
 
 Sebi’s inquiry into possible securities law violations at Tata companies has also gathered pace after Nusli Wadia, former independent director at Tata Motors, Tata Steel and Tata Chemicals, too flagged corporate governance lapses. Wadia had written to Sebi chairman after Tata Sons moved a resolution to remove the billionaire businessman from the boards of three Tata companies. Both  , interim chairman of Tata Sons, and   had met Sebi chief separately. 
 
 Sebi has not started any formal investigation on the basis of Mistry and Wadia’s allegations of violations of corporate governance and insider trading rules. 
 
 
