NAGPUR: Higher   at Rs 1,87,223 crore, increase of 24%, is an indication of  . But, in the absence of properly laid down strategies, the benefits won’t reach the needy. Hence, the government should also ensure effective implementation strategies.

 These were the common reactions by   on rural sector development initiatives proposed in the budget. 
 
 Tarak Kate,  , an NGO founded by a group of scientists, technologists and activists devoted to the cause of sustainable rural development through the application of science and eco-friendly technology alternatives, told TOI that just increasing the allocations has no meaning unless there is a scientific system in place for translating the schemes at ground zero.
 
 “Will the government schemes change the livelihood of the people? Will the schemes generate the required employment opportunities and make any village poverty-free?” These are some of the questions that need to be answered, Kate said. “For example, compost pits are needed to increase organic carbon content.
 
 But farmers or workers are not trained in scientifically preparing the pits and achieving the desired results. Most schemes need education and awareness among villagers,” he said.
 
 Kate believes the targeted beneficiaries of the affordable housing scheme should be involved in the process along with the contractors.
 
 “In fact, low cost house makers like the Centre for Science in Villages have no scope for even applying for a tender. While implementing the low cost housing scheme, the focus remains on cost cutting only and not on the needs of the prospective owners. This results in failure of the scheme and waste of money,” said Atul Sharma, dean, agriculture, Shiksha Mandal, Wardha. 
 
 “The beneficiaries should also be included in the policy-making process,” he said. Sharma also describes 100% electrification a false claim as just putting electric poles and giving electricity during restricted night hours has no meaning. “I want government to define poverty elevation. It’s just impossible to implement it in real sense,” said Sharma.
 
 Sandhya Edlabadkar, a chemical engineer-turned-social activist too says increasing allocation is definitely a positive sign but in the absence of implementation techniques and prevailing corruption in system the schemes are useless. “It is just not possible to construct one crore dwellings in the given time and money,” she stressed.
 
 Ravi Marshetwar, an activist from Washim district, says water forms the basis of all development. He, however, cited the futility of the scheme for making farm ponds. 
 
 “According to Geological Survey of India, one cannot go deeper beyond 4 feet due to basalt rocks. What will be the use of such a scheme here,” he said.
 
 Gajendra Nirmal from Amravati believes unless skilled manpower is developed, no such schemes announced in the budget will be successful.
 
