For 19-year-old Nayaab Shaikh, a walk to the   on Tuesday will be her first step down the road of  . For Lester Aranha (19), it’s going to be a thrilling first date with the secret ballot machine and for 20-year-old Anisha Chavan, just knowing that her vote counts means  

 If the mood of these first-timers is any indicator, then voter apathy is clearly a thing of the past. The total number of new voters registered for this year’s municipal elections is 3.27 lakh, a majority of who are first-time voters according to data compiled by civic authorities. The number carries echoes of the 2014 Lok Sabha elections that saw the largest number of young voters turn up at the polling booths since Independence. TOI tried tapping into the minds of some of these debutant voters to understand what is drawing them to the polling booth.
 
 “I want my first time to be right. It’s important for me to make a wise decision and vote correctly so that I can look back later and feel happy about my choice,” says Denise D’Souza, a third-year student of mass media at St Andrew’s who has been devoting time to catch up on election news after college hours. “I rely on my grandmother for updates. She’s at home all day watching news.” 
 
 Nineteen-year-old Jasmine Lopez from Chira Bazaar has been taking advice from neighbours and family members to zero in on her pick. “I’m trying to understand which party is ruling and what its achievements are so that I can make an informed choice.”
 
 With the social media reshaping news and a variety of digital tools that political parties are using to reach out to voters, tech-savvy youngsters are not too far behind when it comes to political awareness. “I’ve been following politics since my school days. Debates on television have always intrigued me. It makes me pay more attention to the issues in our country and what leaders have to say,” says Lester.
 
 But it’s their neighbourhood that they feel most strongly about. If Nayaab, a student of architecture, is on her way from Aurangabad to vote for Byculla, hoping that environment will be better cared for, Lester’s prime concern is safety. “There’s a problem of chain-snatching in my area,” says the Borivli resident. “As soon as I came of age, I knew I had to register as a voter if I wanted to have a say in the things around me. The roads in my vicinity are probably the worst in Mumbai,” says Elvis Patel (20) from Malad (west). “A distance you can cover in 10 minutes by foot, takes 45 minutes by car.” Elvis will cast his vote for a young candidate in his ward with the hope that they will be more driven to bring in change.
 
 Another pet peeve is “regressive and ridiculous statements by leaders”, says Denise. “I really hope for a change in their mindset. Only then will they stop shooting their mouth off.”
 
 However, many feel that political parties may be “missing the point” in their agenda. “I’ve been following the political campaigns in our area and none seems to be very impressive. They don’t speak about development, cleanliness or ways to generate jobs,” says 21-year-old Niharika Gupta. “It would have been good to see candidates who’ve worked for people in the past instead of those with family ties. I will probably press the NOTA button,” she adds, making no bones about letting her secret out.
 
 Borivli resident Anisha has been tracking the candidates but wonders why they are never in sight the rest of the year. “Those who we vote for don’t really do what is expected of them but we’re still hopeful that they will deliver this time,” she says. Despite the reluctance among some to participate in politics, voting is all about wielding their democratic right. “I don’t follow politics too closely but I know it’s my right to have a say so I want to exercise it,” reasons Lorraine Fernandes, a first-time voter from Kalina, who is hoping for better sanitation and roads in her ward.
 
 For most virgin voters, the touch-and-feel experience of the electronic voting machine inside the forbidden ballot room holds special charm. “I used to accompany my mother to the polling booth as a child and wait outside wondering what’s going on inside,” says Denise. Nayaab smiles, “I’m very excited to get into the mysterious voting booth.”
 
 And then there’s always the election selfie to flaunt their inked finger and show off civic pride. “My friends and I have already decided to meet at a certain point after casting our vote and take a selfie of our inked finger to post on social media. Hopefully, we’ll be taken more seriously now!” believes Jasmine.
 
 
