CHENNAI: Adaptability has been  's strength. In his 12-match ODI career thus far, the 27-year-old batsman has been floating up and down the order according to the team's needs and yet has an average of 43.50 with one hundred and one fifty to his credit.

 With the   all set to get underway in a week's time, Pandey, who is a vital member of the Kolkata Knight Riders team, is eager to make it big after performing admirably in the recently concluded Deodhar Trophy for India Red.
 
 In an exclusive chat with 
 , Pandey opened up on trying to adapt himself to the finisher's role in limited-overs, the influence of   (  coach) on his batting and on a few other subjects.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 I think I have played with the same intensity ever since I started playing. That hundred was a big achievement at that time as I was only 19 years of age. I think that's where I set a benchmark for myself. I just wanted to make sure, I played for the country.
 
 
 
 I would love to bat at No 4 as I normally bat at that slot. Batting at No 5 & 6 is not what I have done. But I now feel batting in those positions are slightly tougher because you don't have enough time, you have to quickly judge the pace of the game and bat with someone like MS Dhoni to put some runs on the board. Eventually with some more games coming up, I think I would get better at it as well. This is something new, it will take time…but I will adjust to the role of a finisher. For now, my focus is on the IPL and I will try to do well. It will be good for me, if I'm picked for Champions Trophy.
 
 
 
 Kallis is someone who doesn't talk a lot. He would not come up to you and tell do this or do that. It's important for a player like to me to go to him sometimes, if I need him to ask whatever doubts I have. He is very happy to help. He was there with me in RCB for 2 years and then with KKR. He has always been a good influence on my game. And there is always something to learn from him. He told me that I have many strokes and that it was important for me to stay at the wicket, take some time initially and then play my shots. He is somebody who wants me to be at the crease for a long time and that's where my strength comes. That's what I heard from him.
 
 
 
 I started as an opener there. But batting No 3 is my strength. I would love open or bat at No 3 which will give me enough time to play my strokes and be at the wicket for a while. We have enough finishers in my team such as Yusuf Pathan and a few others. They are specialists in finishing. I think I would to bat at No 3 and continue.
 
 
 
 KKR and   have been really supportive. He backs his players and that's what he has done with me. It's about playing many games in the IPL. I played most of the games and it's good to have the runs under belt. KKR did play a good role for me to play in the higher level by giving me those opportunities.
 
 
 
 Virat has always been a great leader. Even U19 WC, we played together. One thing I learnt from him is being aggressive on the field and having that extra energy in him. I think all of them are best in what they do. I think there is something to learn from everybody. Mahi bhai is nice and cool in all situations. Somewhere you end up playing their kind of game plans in a particular game. You have to adapt to those situations and to all the captains and I think this is how you should be.
 
 
 
 IPL is having fun at the same time playing cricket. These are all funny characters and I really love to spend time with these guys. They are one of the best bowlers in their respective countries. You get to know to play good bowlers, their variations and it does help.
 
 
 
 That was as good as the hundred I scored in IPL (2009). It was a great confidence booster for me. Playing at No 4 and beating Australia in their own backyard… it was a good feel. I thought I made a little bit of a mark for myself from there on. People noticed that knock.
 
 
 
 Not really. My main focus is to play cricket. I don't really think about what you are thinking or what the fans are going to think. That's not my job to think like that. It doesn't matter what happens behind me.
 
