KOLHAPUR: Autorickshaw drivers taking people for a ride is no secret, but little has been done about it by the   (RTO).

 These auto drivers do not differentiate between tourists and local residents. Refusing to ply as per the meter, they leave no opportunity to overcharge people.
 
 Vilas Gavate, a tourist from Beed, accused the auto drivers for not following the meter. “We recently visited the Mahalaxmi temple. The auto driver asked us to pay for Rs 120 form the bus stand to the temple. I asked him to follow the meter, but he refused. When we approached another auto driver, he said he would charge Rs 80 for the trip. We did not have another option but to agree. I think they are working as a cartel and know how to deal with the tourists. Therefore, there should be a rate chart at the at auto stand,” he said.
 
 Another tourist form Pune Mahendra Thorat said, “Our auto driver refused to follow the meter and asked for cumulative figure. However, we did not give in and asked him to charge as per the meter. Such people are giving a bad name to the city. Traffic and regional transport department should take action against such errant auto drivers.”
 
 Recently, the district administration and other stakeholders in tourism initiated efforts to bring   on the tourism map. As part of this initiative, Kolhapur hotel owners’ forum decided to train 300 auto drivers as brand ambassador of Kolhapur. The scheme was aimed to train auto drivers for good behavior, but the scheme failed to translate into reality.
 
 President of Kolhapur hotel owners’ forum Ujjwal Nageshkar said, “We cannot initiate the programme without the support of district administration and the RTO. They should identify auto drivers and we can take responsibility of their training. The training will help to improve their behavior. When a tourist comes the city, he or she encounters an auto driver. Therefore, they either damage or improve the image of the city. They should charge tourists, citizens as per electronic meters.”
 
 He added, “The transport office should shift their attention to this issue and take strict action against errant auto drivers. Normally, auto rickshaw drivers have a right to charge one-and-a-half rate during the night. But drivers often seek double or triple fare. Illegal rickshaw business thrives during the night.”
 
 Speaking on the issue,  , deputy regional transport officer of Kolhapur, said, “We keep regular watch on errant auto drivers in the city. Passengers can register their complaint against auto driver in written form. Following this we can initiate fair and transparent inquiry against auto drivers. However, we have received only four complaints regarding high fare and we fined Rs 4,000 to the drivers. We have appealed passengers to come forward and register complaint against errant auto drivers.”
 
 President of Karveer auto union   said, “Few errant auto drivers have tainted the image of auto business in the city. We already have instructed our members regarding the fare and compliance with meters. Passenger should register complaint against such drivers.” 
 
