KOLHAPUR: Rumours about the invalidity of   have been doing the rounds in the   of the district affecting the daily transactions in Chandgad, Ajara and Gadhinglaj talukas. The   of the district termed it as a rumours and appealed citizens to accept the coins.

 Small traders, vegetable vendors, and wholesale traders based out of rural areas were among the first to believe the rumour that went viral on social media platforms and refused to accept Rs 10 coins. 
 
 A resident of the   village (Gadhinglaj taluka) Sandip Kalkutti, said, “Rumours relating Rs 10 coin have created state of confusion among the villagers in our taluka and other neighbouring areas. Vegetable vendors are refusing to accept the coins. The rumours, which allegedly started in Sankeshwar, Karnataka, has now travelled all the way to Maharashtra. Initially, Sankeshwar-based traders started rejecting coins in their local market. Soon, people started spreading rumours questioning the coin’s validity.”
 
 Another resident of Gadhinglaj taluka Nagesh Chaugale, said, “Conductors in Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) and Karnataka buses are refusing to accept coins. The nationalised banks earlier showed their reluctance to accept coins. After a meeting with bank officials, they changed their attitude. But there is no relief for common people in the local market.”
 
 Gadhinglaj taluka president of Abhil Bhartiya Grahak Panchayat Fulji Kahire, said, “On the backdrop of the rumours on coins, we have submitted a petition to the government seeking clarification on the validity of Rs 10 coin. Merchants, small traders, retailers have refused to accept the coins. We also contacted MSRTC depot manager after their reluctance to accept the coins. We have advised people to file a case in consumer forum, if banks reject the coins. Recently, multiple banks in the area gave the pension amount in Rs 10 coins to its customers.”
 
 However, the MSRTC officials denied allegations levelled by the citizens in the Gadhinglaj taluka. MSRTC depot manager of Gadhinglaj depot P D Kadam, said, “After rumours, we have put up a notice stating the acceptance of Rs 10 coins at every bus stop. If conductor rejects the coin, the passenger can register a complaint against the conductor. They have already been instructed to accept the Rs 10 coins.”
 
 A senior official in a leading bank, on the condition of anonymity, said, “We conducted the meeting on the issue. The prevailing rumours are baseless. It is a legal tender. Therefore traders, banks and retailers have to accept it. There is no letter from Reserve Bank of India (RBI). The rumours related to currencies have increased after demonetisation. People should not believe in such baseless rumours.”
 
 The rumour has had an adverse impact in the city. A city-based retailer  , said, “In the last three days, we have received Rs 10 coins worth of Rs 2,500. Customers are in panic after the rumours surfaced. But, we are accepting the coins.”
 
