IMPHAL/KOHIMA: For many months preceding the   assembly election in March, Ibungo Singh found it almost impossible to eke out a livelihood driving passengers along National Highway 2, something he had done for many years. The highway, the main supply line connecting   valley with the rest of the country, was blockaded by the United Naga Council (UNC) for over four months.

 The Nagas were angry with Manipur's Congress government as it had divided the hills where the Nagas and other tribes live to create new districts. “Until two months ago, I thought NH 2 had become a highway to hell,“ the 30-year-old driver said, recalling how the blockade, which began on November 1, had choked his state and the highway, his source of livelihood.
 
 Prices of essential goods had spiralled. An LPG cylinder cost around Rs 3,000. Petrol sold at Rs 350 a litre in the grey market. Medicines and medical appliances had to be flown in from other parts of India. The construction industry had come almost to a standstill.
 
 With a change of guard in Imphal -the election saw BJP's N   triumph over his former mentor, Okram Ibobi Singh -the highway again became a symbol of peace and hope. The UNC promptly lifted the blockade after the Biren government held talks with it, as promised by him before the elections. “If the two states improve relations, NH 2 can become a highway of hope,“ Mulato Sikhu, a doctor in Dimapur, said.
 
 Biren Singh, a former footballer, played his political card deftly . He made Naga People's Front (NPF), in power in  , his ally in his home state. To win the Naga heart, he coined a catchy slogan -`Let's go to the hills'. Manipur heaved a sigh of relief as the highway blockade ended on March 19, 139 days after it had begun.
 
 Against this backdrop, Nagaland CM Shurhozelie Liezietsu's May 9 visit to Imphal assumes significance in Manipur-Nagaland relations.This was the first meeting between the CMs of the two states, whose relations have always been sliding downhill. Coinci dentally, Shurhozelie, like Biren Singh, is a new chief minister; he had succeeded T R Zeliang as CM in February, when Nagaland was caught in a bitter fight over the ques tion of women's representation in local development bodies. In his appreciation of the growing understanding between Manipur and Nagaland, Shurhozelie sounded generous and pragmatic. “In the past, selfish politicians exploited the situation and turned everything communal. In the northeast, there are many ethnic groups and we must learn to live together,“ the Naga CM told TOI at his Kohima residence. In Imphal, Biren Singh, too, appeared generous in his praise for Shurhozelie. “It's a new chapter in our bilateral relations ... Manipur's Nagas are our brothers and Nagaland is our neighbour. I will soon visit Nagaland by NH 2,“ he remarked.
 
 Many in Nagaland and Manipur have begun to see BJP as a common thread between Biren and Shurhozelie. If Biren is from BJP, Shurhozelie heads the Democratic Alliance of Nagaland in which the NPF and the saffron party are important allies.
 
 The bonhomie between Nagaland and Manipur has many wondering if it can ever bring the Naga peace dialogue to its logical conclusion. From the beginning, Manipur has opposed the demand of the NSCN (IM) that the Nagadominated areas of Manipur, Assam, Aruncahal Pradesh, and Myanmar, be unified under its proposed Nagalim (greater Nagaland).The Manipur assembly has passed a number of resolutions seeking to protect the state's territorial integrity.
 
 “We are expecting a Naga political solution. If it does not come soon, the Shurhozelie-Biren bonhomie may only be momentary,“ N Ezanthung Ngullie, a Naga student activist, said.“Many trucks have been burnt on this highway. It has been under blockades for far too long. It is always the common man who has suffered,“ he added.
 
 Amar Yumnam, a professor of economics at Manipur University, said, “This is a moment for both sides to capitalise on. If we don't do it now, the talks will slow down for another three to four decades.“
 
 “If BJP and NPF work together, Manipur and Nagaland will be in a win-win situation. This can help the Centre push Manipur's dream of becoming a major trade link between India and  ,“ a Kohima local said.
 
 
 
