Nagpur: Eight youths drowned while three escaped when the boat they were having a joy ride in capsized in   situated on Amravati road, around 25km from the city, on Sunday evening. Of eight deceased, six were from South Nagpur while two were from Wyadpeth village located near the dam.

 The three who escaped are   (28), a resident of Davlameti, his younger brother Amol (26), a resident of Dattatray Nagar in Nagpur and Atul Bawne (21), a resident of Wyadpeth.
 
 Roshan is working as a PRO in City Line hospital on Amravati road at Davlameti. Seven youths from South Nagpur including Amol had approached Roshan on Sunday. They had gone in a Nano car and two two-wheelers to enjoy boating.
 
 Roshan and group took the help of three youths —Bawne, cousins Roshan Khandare and   — from Wyadpeth for boating. Total 11 persons took the boat in the lake.
 
 “We had one round of boating. During second round, boat got stuck in middle of the lake. Water started to fill in the boat. Everybody panicked and in the process the boat capsized. I with my brother could swim back to the bank and survived,” Dodke told doctors at City Line hospital. Roshan, Amol and Bawne are being treated at the same hospital.
 
 Of eight deceased, body of Rahul Jadhav, a resident of New Subhedar Layout, was recovered. Of the remaining seven, five -- Ankit Bhoskar, Paresh Katole, Atul Bhoyar, Pankaj Doifode and Pratik Amde, all below 25 years age—are from Dattatray Nagar and Uday Nagar in South Nagpur. Two-- Roshan Khandare and Akshay Khandare— are from Wyadpeth. Roshan Khandare is son of former sarpanch of Wyadpeth village.
 
 The incident occurred around 6.30pm. A local diver was present at the dam who assisted the three survivors. The diver informed Wadi police at around 7.50pm.
 
 The team from Wadi and Kalmeshwar police with the help of villagers tried to locate the bodies but could not as it was getting dark. Nagpur Municipal Corporation fire department team also reached the spot at around 11pm. With night falling, police and divers would be camping at lakeside and would try to recover bodies at daybreak on Monday.
 
 SP, Nagpur rural, Shailesh Balkawade said they were trying to rope in State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) team for recovery operation. "A big contingent of rural district police from Saoner and Kalmeshwar divisions was pressed into action. Four officers supervised the operation," he said. "Tehsil office is providing logistics like lights and other instruments required for the operation," he said.
 
 
