NEW DELHI: Eyeing support of the huge Indian community (2.7 million, mainly Tamilians) back home ahead of the elections, Malaysian   will arrive in Chennai later this week followed by Delhi for a five-day India trip.
 
  Besides this initiative for people-topeople contacts, Delhi and Kuala Lumpur also plan firm key defence deal of MiG 29 fighter jets and Malaysian investments in infrastructure and airport projects in India.
  
  Support of Indian origin Malaysians will be crucial as Razak plans to pre-pone parliamentary elections in his country to 2017 from 2018. In Chennai, Razak is expected to meet   governor. In the recent past, Razak was also in China with an eye on votes from the Chinese community in Malaysia.
  
  However, persons familiar with the developments told ETthat Razak is more hopeful of big support from the Indian community than the Chinese community in Malaysia.   comprise 7-8% of the population of Malaysia.
  
  Big-ticket items from the visit include possible defence techno-commercial pact that will enable India to buy MiG-29 fighter jets from Malaysia. With both India and Malaysia using some similar Russian origin defence products, there is a growing synergy and familirisation between the two sides, officials told ET.
  
  Razak, who shares a good chemistry with  , is also expected to hold dialogue with the Indian PM on creating SU-30 Forum as both sides use Russian origin SU-30 fighter jets. Counter-terror cooperation and de-redicalisation initiatives will also get boost during Razak’s visit with Kaula Lumpur emerging as a key partner in SE Asia handing over fugitives in past few years.
  
  Both are sharing best practices in de-radicalization initiatives, including modernizing madrasa curriculum. It may be recalled that Malaysia entered into a strategic partnership with India in 2010 under Razak.
  
  This is his third visit to India in eight years and reflects his interest in relations with India, officials said. Both PMs will also discuss the emerging situation in Southeast Asia in the backdrop of developments in the   region. Malaysia is a big claimant in the South China Sea region.
  
  Malaysia is emerging as a key investor in India's infrastructure sector, and a few big-ticket investments are in the pipeline for announcements during Razak’s visit. This include $1.2-1.4 bn worth road project in   and $300-400 million worth optical fibre project in Karnataka.
