AHMEDABAD: Patidar   (PAAS) members are again at loggerheads with police as they did not get permission to hold a public meeting in Nikol, to felicitate martyred soldiers of the Indian Army and those who lost their lives in the Patel OBC quota agitation of August 2015. Hardik Patel, PAAS convener, will attend the first public meet in Ahmedabad after his exile of six months.

  PAAS leaders including   convener, Jayesh Patel on Friday met city police commissioner A K Singh and made a representation to hold the meeting. PAAS leaders said they had earlier on February 16 sought permission for the public meeting from Nikol police station but the cops put it on hold.
 
 Patel said the city top cop asked them to hold the meeting at a ground rather than on the road. “We told him that if he could arrange a ground for us we will hold it there otherwise, we will go ahead with our scheduled programme near Uma School in Nikol area,” Patel said.
 
 Patel said they will pay homage to Major Rusikesh Ramani, who was killed in a gun-battle with insurgents in Kupwara in Jammu and Kashmir, and Lance Naik Gopalsingh Bhadoriya who lost his life in a gun-battle with terrorists on February 12. “We have invited family members of both the soldiers for the felicitation,” Patel added.
 
 Apart from the Indian Army, the kin of Patidar community youths who were killed during the Patidar quota agitation in August last years will also be felicitated. “From Ahmedabad, we will felicitate the kin of Shwetang Patel of Bapunagar and   from Nikol who died due to police atrocities,” Patel said, adding that bright students from the Patidar community will also be honoured.
 
 The PAAS leader also threatened that their community would not allow any political programme in the area if they were not given permission. “Only last week, police and state administration allowed BJP youth wing (Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha) president   to hold a rally in the same area then why have we not been given the permission.”
 
