GHAZIABAD: A 58-year-old woman was allegedly murdered by burglars inside her house in   on Monday. The burglars, who made off with cash and jewellery, however, left unharmed the woman’s one-and-a-half-year-old granddaughter, who was in the house at the time of the   and  .

 The murder of the woman, who has been identified by the police as Neelam, is suspected to have taken place on Monday afternoon in the single-storey house of the woman’s family in Shyam Park Extension of Sahibabad. Her body was found lying in a pool of blood on a bed in the bedroom of the house.
 
 According to the police, the woman had suffered head injuries, which were probably inflicted on her with a blunt weapon. The contents of two almirahs kept inside the house had been ransacked. Her family members have told police that the keys to the almirahs always used to be kept inserted in their respective keyholes. Police did not find any signs of forced entry into the house.
 
 The mobile phone of the victim could not be recovered by the police so far.
 
 The woman’s elder son, Ravi Goswami (28), a project associate with UGC, and his wife Sonu (26), a technician with a pathology laboratory in  , had left together for their jobs at around 8.30am on Monday. Neelam’s husband, Satyaveer Giri (58), who works with a private consultancy firm, as well as her younger son, Sanjeev (26), who works with the IRCTC office in  , also left for their jobs earlier in the morning. Neelam had stayed alone in the house with Ravi’s daughter.
 
 There are no CCTV cameras installed anywhere near the house. The family alleged that the burglars have stolen Rs 2 lakh in cash and jewellery worth around Rs 5 lakh kept inside the almirahs. According to the family, the cash and jewellery had been kept in the house for Sanjeev’s wedding, which was to be held soon.
 
 The murder and burglary were discovered by Ravi around 5.30pm when he returned home from work. 
 
 Ravi told TOI that he had last spoken to his mother around 1pm over her mobile phone. “I am used to calling my mother during the day to find out about her wellbeing. But today, after 1pm, her phone was unreachable. Sensing something was amiss, I left work early and when I reached home I found the main door was locked from inside,” Ravi said.
 
 She did not respond when Ravi called her a number of times. “My daughter walked up to the main door crying loudly. Clothes were strewn around the house. When I entered the bedroom, I found my mother’s body on the bed,” Ravi said.
 
 The police have sent the body for a postmortem. Ghaziabad SSP Hari Narayan Singh said, “The motive behind the murder is not yet clear. It could be burglary or a family diuspute. We are yet to question the family members for more information.” 
 
 
