NAGPUR: Former revenue minister and senior   leader Eknath   concluded his deposition before the one-man commission of retired judge Dinkar Zoting on Tuesday. With this the probe panel has finished major work and probably left with decision to be taken on two applications moved by Khadse. The two applications may be taken up on Wednesday.

 Khadse had at an earlier date moved an application seeking recalling of two key witnesses — the Pune district collector and the then CEO of   for fresh testimony. On Monday, the ex-minister had moved special application seeking reconstitution of issues before the commission.
 
 Khadse continued his deposition for the second day running and judge Zoting subjected him to some rigorous questioning. The proceedings which started in the morning stretched till 4pm. Now, the commission is expected to take a decision on Wednesday on Khadse’s fresh application for resummoning of Pune collector Saurabh Rau and the then CEO Bhushan Gagrani before the commission.
 
 The commission completed Khadse’s examination on Tuesday. But his application moved on Monday seeking recasting of issues before the commission is yet to be taken up and will most likely be done on Wednesday. Khadse had raised questions on the proceedings and even suggested that in some aspects they overstepped the set terms of reference. 
 
 However, the application was strongly opposed by the   counsel Chandrashekhar Jaltare on Monday itself saying as the accused Khadse had no such right and that the objections had come at too late a stage when all witnesses were examined, required documents presented and examined by the commission.
 
 The inquiry commission was appointed by chief minister   on June 23 and initially it was given three months to complete the probe into allegations that Khadse had as a minister misused his office to transfer a plot of land at Bhosri in Pune district in name of his wife Mandakini and son-in-law Girish Chaudhari. The ex-minister was accused by the opposition of holding an official meeting in April 2016 to clear the land transfer. The land belonging to MIDC was allegedly given his kin for Rs3.75 cr while its market price was at least ten times more, it is alleged.
 
 Bowing to heavy criticism by the opposition parties, Khadse had to resign from the number 2 post in the Fadnavis government. Later the chief minister appointed a judicial probe headed by retired high-court judge Zoting. The panel has been given extensions three times.
 
 Even as the probe seems to be coming to an end, dark clouds over Khadse’s political rehabilitation seem to far from getting dispersed. This is owing to his about-turn taken during his testimony before the commission. He had in his first affidavit said the said land was not in government possession and was purchased from private owner, Rasool Ukani. However, last week in his final deposition he made a U-turn claiming that he was not aware of the land deal by his family members who did it as independent entities.
 
