CHANDIGARH: Rohtak district administration suspended internet services in the vicinity of Jassia village, the Jat dharna site, as All India   Sangharsh Samiti (AIJASS) convener Yashpal Malik addressed a number of rallies on Wednesday.

 The Jat agitation for reservation and withdrawl of cases against those booked for violence during stir in February 2016 entered the fourth day on Wednesday. Meanwhile, paramilitary forces and heavy police force maintained a strict vigil at dharna sites. Rohtak deputy commissioner (DC) Atul Kumar said, “We are monitoring the situation.”
 
 Malik ruled out the possibility of a dialogue with Haryana government, saying, “The government is sending officers to villages to threaten sarpanchs and panchs, and even in towns. It has authorized DCs to use provisions of the   (NSA), 1980, against us. They should have used this for Kurukshetra MP Raj Kumar Saini and his man Roshan Lal Arya,” he said.
 
 “We will not wait for the government’s invitation. Let the government announce its consent of having accepted our demands, we will withdraw the agitations. Else, we will double up the venues of Jat nyaya dharnas,” he added. Malik also accused the government of creating terror by videography of the Jat dharnas.
 
 He mocked Haryana finance minister Captain Abhimanyu of dragging people to litigation to satisfy his ego by framing the youths in the incident related to violence at his house last year.
 
 Meanwhile, state BJP chief Subhash Barala said Malik was doing politics on a subjudice matter. “Issue related to reservation is pending in the court and we are actively working on it. The demands of Jats have been accepted, hence there is no justification of continuing the agitation,” he said, adding that the government was open to dialogue with the Jats.
 
 Box: Traffic menace
 
 Traffic movement on the Panipat-Rohtak road remained disrupted for nearly one hour during the public meeting by AIJASS chief Yashpal Malik. According to information, heavy turnout of villagers, who had come on tractor-trailers, had dotted the stretch.
 
