BATHINDA: With investigation agencies not making much headway in the   even 16 days after the incident, residents of the town in Bathinda district have decided to hold protests demanding action. They have also demanded   of Rs 1 crore and a job each for the families of those killed in the blast on January 31.

 Six persons, including four kids, were killed in the blast triggered in a Maruti 800 minutes after Congress candidate from Maur assembly constituency Harminder Singh Jassi had just ended a small public meeting on the Truck Union Road. Luckily, a pressure cooker containing explosives and placed right outside the car did not burst. Police are still trying to gather details about the car and the pressure cooker.
 
 “A panel consisting of 25 members, ‘Maur bomb blast virodhi action committee’, has been formed to decide about the mode of protest. A meeting of the panel has been called on Friday morning. We have placed nine demands before the state government, which mainly include Rs 1 crore compensation to each of the families of the six persons killed in the blast, apart from a job for any member of the families,” said action committee member Jiwan Kumar Gupta.
 
 Bathinda police had called Kulvir Singh of Maur and Gursewak Singh of Dhurkot village in Barnala district on February 14 and 15, for questioning but had let them off later. A few years back, Kulvir had been booked for opposing Dera Sacha Sauda activities in Punjab while Gursewak’s name had cropped up in the killing of a religious figure in Rajasthan. 
 
 Bathinda SSP Swapan Sharma said, “The police are thoroughly investigating the case and teams have been sent to various places to gather clues.”
 
 
 
 
 The state government has released Rs 36.5 lakh to be disbursed among families of the victims as ex gratia. Bathinda deputy commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said, “After the   gave its nod the state government has cleared Rs 5 lakh compensation for the affected families and Rs 50,000 each for the injured. The process to disburse it has already started.”
 
 
