TALWANDI SABO (BATHINDA): Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leaders have reiterated their demand for handing over the party reins in   to Punjabis. Senior party leaders while making their feelings public said the Delhi model failed to properly work in Punjab and it was time to introspect and rectify the mistakes committed in the past.

 Chief whip of the party in the state assembly Sukhpal Singh Khaira raised these issues during the Baisakhi conference here on Thursday. Leader of opposition in Punjab assembly H S Phoolka seconded the point raised by Khaira. However, he said such issues should be raised at party meeting and not in an open conference. Punjab AAP convener Gurpreet Singh Waraich also advocated raising such issues at the party meeting even as he reiterated more powers to Punjabis in decision-making in the state.
 
 Addressing the conference, Bholath MLA Khaira said, “Most of the Punjabis were tilted towards AAP due to its ideology but some compromises were made in the 2017 assembly elections, which went against us. Lacking an organisational structure and not declaring any face for the chief minister’s post also went against us, apart from not living up to the expectations of our volunteers.”
 
 He said the intentions of the Delhi leaders were honest and clear but the model could not work in Punjab due to which party’s vote share came down from 25% in the 2014 parliament elections to 23% in the assembly polls. “We had won in 38 assembly segments in the 2014 parliament elections but this came down to 20 in 2017,” he said while advocating rebuilding the party.
 
 Talwandi Sabo’s AAP MLA Baljinder Kaur and Bathinda (rural) MLA Rupinder Kaur Ruby also addressed the gathering. However, party’s Sangrur MP Bhagwant Mann was conspicuous by his absence.
 
 Phoolka takes on Amarinder his comment on Canadian minister Sajjan
 
 Leader of opposition in Punjab assembly H S Phoolka has accused chief minister   of trying to save the Congress leaders by calling Canadian defence minister   a Khalistan sympathiser. He said, “The Congress is worried over the Ontario assembly resolution of terming the 1984 riots as ‘genocide.’ Congress leaders fear that this may mount pressure on the Indian government to take action in this regard.” Phoolka said Amarinder had attended a programme of   in a gurdwara in Canada but was now talking in different terms.
 
