Porvorim: The monsoon session of the Goa Legislative   started on a stormy note on Tuesday with the House witnessing three adjournments as the opposition pressed for an adjournment motion on the controversial circular restraining government employees from visiting public representatives’ residences and offices.

 It was only after senior Congress leader Pratapsing   intervened did members allow the House to function. Later, they staged a walk out, with the exception of Rane.
 
 The House was first adjourned for fifteen minutes during the ‘Question hour’ when the opposition led by Kavlekar persisted with the demand. 
 
 It was adjourned for the second time until 2.30pm as the members rushed to the well after the   cited rules of business against adjournment motion.
 
 Speaker said the issue could be raised only during the ‘Calling attention’ motion as the entire Question hour was wasted. After the lunch, when the House was in session again, they continued with their demand with no discussion taking place on other issues. Ponda MLA, Ravi Naik said, “If officers fail to report when called by the  , then the representatives won’t be able to redress people’s grievances.’’
 
 Speaker maintained that he would give ruling on their request for adjournment motion only after the Question Hour is over. Amidst the din, he told Curchorem MLA Nilesh Cabral to raise the beef issue. However, the noisy scenes prevailed. Being denied an opportunity to discuss the issue, Cabral accused opposition members of depriving him a chance to debate it.
 
 Chaos continued with senior Congress leaders such as Luizinho Faleiro, Ravi Naik, Digambar Kamat and Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenco insisting that the circular be withdrawn terming it anti-people. They were also joined by the lone Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) legislator, Churchill Alemao.
 
 Amidst the din in the House, Rane said he felt ashamed of sitting in the assembly, which is almost akin to a market place.
 
 Earlier, the opposition members asked the chief minister as to why the people of Goa are made to suffer. With no sign of relenting on their part, Parrikar told the House the he was open to discussion on the issue, but only during ‘Zero Hour.’
 
 “I’m aware of the problems faced by the MLAs. Let the question be discussed properly and difficulties resolved. I will amend the circular if need be,” he told the members. But his assurance failed to pacify opposition benches.
 
 Kavlekar said they would give up their demand if the CM assures to withdraw the circular. Speaker’s attempt to quieten the House did not fructify as some members of the ruling coalition also joined in the chaos trying to make their point in high octane level.
 
 
