 
The transformation of the Media and   industry in the last few years has been nothing less than dynamic. 4G data speeds and improved connectivity, almost at par with our global counterparts, is driving consumption of rich content in every nook and corner of our country today. Increasing penetration of TV and mobile tech has further shrunk the world of media, communication and entertainment and brought more power to the palm. 
 
  
 
 
  The Times of India Group has now partnered one of India's top 10 ranked management schools, S.P.   ( ), for a 'Program in Strategic Media & Entertainment Management' (PSMEM). This program aims to equip media and entertainment professionals and aspirants with the necessary experience, deep industry knowledge and skill-set. 
 
  
 
 
  CVL Srinivas, CEO, South Asia, GroupM says, "We are sitting at the cusp of a digital revolution There cannot be a better time to be a part of this exciting media and entertainment industry. As a member of the elite advisory council of the program he also states “Especially for young students who are looking at a career that balances the left brain and right brain, this is a great opportunity." 
 
  
 
 
  Spread over a duration of 11 months, this program will be delivered via Times Centre for Learning Ltd. (TCLL), a part of the media giant The Times of India Group, in a blended mode through classroom learning, on-campus education and online learning. TCLL is at the forefront of delivering world-class education with state-of-the-art infrastructure and facilities at its disposal. 
 
  
 
 
  Guided by high-profile advisory and academic councils comprising of thought leaders and industry experts from music, film, print and digital media and entertainment, the program curriculum is a judicious mix of media & entertainment, and management components. 
 
  This is an opportunity to interact and learn from great minds from the media and entertainment such as CVL Srinivas, CEO South Asia, GroupM, Raj Nayak, Chief Executive Officer of Colors and Rishtey at   18 Media Pvt. Ltd., M. K. Anand, MD & CEO, Times Television Network, Prashant Panday, MD & CEO, Radio Mirchi, Deepak Lamba, CEO, WWM and  , prominent Film producer and Director. 
 
  
  
 
  Speaking about this academic partnership, Dr. Ranjan Banerjee, Dean at SPJIMR said, "I am delighted that SPJIMR and TCLL have joined hands to launch this unique program for media professionals. The curriculum is a perfect balance between knowledge, skills and attitude. It is a judicious mix of media/entertainment topics and management components which offers wider exposure to students. With this, I strongly believe that the partnership will return some qualified and competent leaders back to the media industry." 
 
  The PSMEM program is an industry-first from various perspectives, right from the specialized knowledge it imparts to the hands-on expertise dished out by industry leaders who are in the thick of action. 
 
  For more details on course curriculum and to download the program brochure you can visit 
  or call: 
  
 
 
  Media Contact:
  Amruta Rithun Ail, Senior Manager - Public Relations, 9819945670, Amruta.Ail@timesgroup.com
  
  Press Release by TSW via Brandwire.in
 
