MAPUSA: In 2012, deputy chief minister   had created a record of sorts when he won the   seat for the   (BJP) by a margin of more than 10,000 votes.

 Will he maintain the lead for the 2017 polls, too? No, say poll watchers. The situation has changed over the last one month, and resentment against the BJP and D’Souza is palpable in the commercial town.
 
 The others in the fray in this constituency are the Nationalist Congress Party’s (NCP) Sanjay Vithu Barde, Congress’ Vijay Laxman Bhike, Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party’s (MGP) Vinod Phadke, Goa Su-Raj Party (GSRP) Rameshwari Morajkar, Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) Shraddha Khalap and independent Domnic Alphonso.
 
 After many years, D’Souza is not going to have it very easy. MGP has seen a resurgence in Mapusa and Phadke, who was perceived as a weak candidate, is even getting support from unexpected quarters, which observers say has surprised BJP supporters in the constituency. D’Souza had to campaign in areas he hardly visited in 2012, sources say.
 
 The MGP has been receiving appreciable support in the last two weeks. Phadke himself is delighted, as this is quite unexpected. D’Souza’s panel had made a virtual clean sweep of the municipal polls. Now, those who were not nominated by him on his panel are slowly getting their own back to him. They seem to be supporting the ‘Lion’ whose roar is threatening to be really loud.
 
 For the last 20 years, the Congress was in No. 2 position in the constituency, but this time it has been pushed lower down. No doubt the party has fielded a young candidate, one who has worked for the party for many years. Bhike has been a student leader and has taken up many issues in the last few years. He did make Congress’ presence felt in Mapusa.
 
 Some Congress workers, assessing that they would not be able to cause much damage to the BJP being in the party, have jumped on to the MGP bandwagon.
 
 NCP’s Barde took the political plunge after the Congress-NCP tie-up failed. Shraddha Khalap, daughter-in-law of former Union minister Ramakant Khalap, has been receiving the support of the intellectual class. AAP has succeeded in making an impact in the constituency, getting the attention of the educated class. But, whether AAP manages to sustain the campaign till D-Day, remains to be seen. Independent candidate Alphonso has been receiving strong support in certain quarters of Mapusa and could dent D’Souza’s chances. 
 
 In the last one week, there has been much discontent against the BJP. There are various reasons for this, analysts opine. For one, the roads in the Mapusa constituency were in a bad condition for long, and, despite protests, until recently, nothing was done to improve the roads. The roads had been dug to lay the sewerage network, but the manner in which the work was carried out angered many, not just residents, but visitors to the town, too, as Mapusa is the main commercial centre for the taluka and beyond.
 
 Besides, there has hardly been any development in terms of infrastructure in the constituency. The BJP may say that water supply has improved, the vegetable market has been constructed, roads have been broadened, the municipality has been moved to new premises, and some major projects cleared, but the general perception is that the deputy chief minister’s constituency should have seen better amenities and improved infrastructure. “The bus stand is no better than what it was 15 years ago,” said a commuter.
 
 D’Souza had initiated a project to construct a state-of-the-art bus terminus, but after the land was acquired there was hardly any work carried out.
 
  The chief minister couldn’t resolve the issue as on the one hand the transport department wanted to construct the terminus while on the other the government was keen on handing it over to the Goa State Infrastructure Development Corporation (GSIDC).
 
 There is no doubt that the situation in the Mapusa constituency is not very easy for any party and that the overwhelming lead seen by the winning candidate in 2012 is sure to reduce this time. While the BJP is confident of winning comfortably, Ramkrishna ‘Sudin’ Dhavalikar opined that Phadke has the potential to ruin things for the BJP.
 
 There is no doubt that D’Souza has an edge, but the silent voters could make the difference.
 
