BHIWANDI: Two unidentified robbers killed a 45-year-old shopkeeper and injured his wife as the couple resisted their   in Bhiwandi on Thursday. 

 The robbers burgled four shops, but in the fifth they found a shopkeeper and his wife sleeping inside. The robbers demanded money from the shopkeeper but when he protested, they attacked the couple and fled. Suresh Gupta (45) died while his wife Sunita (40) suffered serious injuries and is being treated at Bhiwandi Health Care Hospital.
 
 Around 2am on Thursday, in Sonale village in Bhiwandi, the robbers aged around 20 to 25 first broke into a grocery shop, a medical shop, a mobile recharge shop, a money transferring centre and later entered the deceased’s grocery shop by breaking the shutter. According to police, Suresh and his wife woke up on hearing the noise at which one of the robbers asked him to hand over all the money present in the shop. 
 
 Talking to TOI, an injured Sunita said, “After my husband refused to give money, the robbers attacked him with knives they were carrying. When I tried to rescue him they also attacked me.” Sunita said when they fled, she came outside the shop and asked relatives who were on the first floor, for help. 
 
 Family members rushed both to hospital where Suresh succumbed to his injuries while Sunita is still being treated. Jyoti Gupta, a relative said, “My uncle and aunt were sleeping in their shop to avoid theft but we never thought it may cost them their life.” Shocked shopkeepers have sought increased police patrolling, saying burglaries were on the rise in the area in the last few months. A shopkeeper from the area said in the past too there were several house-breaking cases in the area.
 
  police probing the case said hardly anything has been stolen from the shops because no one has complained so far, but in this case the stolen amount is yet to be ascertained. The robbers were caught on CCTVs installed at some medicine shops, which shows them breaking shutters of shops. Dhanaji Shirsagar, senior inspector of Bhiwandi taluka police station said, “We have identified the accused through CCTV footage and a hunt is on for the culprits.” 
 
 
