BENGALURU: The state government has taken the virtual route to market the IT City as a   destination. A Bengaluru-specific mobile application will help tourists explore the city in the days to come. 

 The   will also have a link which will throw up translations of   words to make navigation easier for travellers. It will be bi-lingual — in English and Kananda — and the former version will be launched first to assist foreign tourists.
 
 The application will use the global positioning system (GPS) to provide route maps and guided tours of historical locations in the city. Tourists will also get updates on cultural events and the best eateries in town where they can savour both traditional fare like masala dosa and shavige bath and other cuisines. The government will tie up with hoteliers for the purpose. 
 
 This apart, information on emergency services, including the nearest hospital and ATM, will also be provided. “The in-house app will be a one-stop guide for visitors,” said tourism minister  .
 
 The app is currently in the beta testing phase. The tourism department has utilized the services of a startup, BMS Innolabs Software Pvt Limited, to develop it. 
 
 The app will come with an audio-visual feature. “The files to give visitors a tour of historical locations have been authenticated and verified with the assistance of the state archaeological department. The history of these locations is as per official gazettes and preserved information,” said Kharge. The locations include the Tipu Sultan fort, Summer Palace, the Kempegowda watch towers, museums and   temple among others. 
 
 “We have directed the startup to provide a Kannada link with words like ‘yelli’ (where), ‘yeshtu’ (how much) and ‘yavaga’ (when) to help tourists travel and bargain while shopping. The Kannada words will carry English translations,” said the minister.
 
 The initiative, as per preliminiary estimates, will cost the exchequer not more than Rs 40 lakh. The app will be available on both android and ios platforms and its launch is likely to coincide with the 470th birthday celebration of Bengaluru.
 
 
