CHENNAI: Less than four months after the   signed an MoU with the state government, the first daily flight between Chennai and Mysuru was inaugurated by minister of state for civil aviation   on Wednesday.

 More routes are set to be launched from Chennai under the   in the coming weeks.  , which has bagged 18 regional routes in the first phase of bidding, will start daily flights from Chennai to Salem and Kadapa in the first week of November.
 
 “We will be flying a 70-seater ATR plane daily from Chennai to Mysuru and back. We have a fleet of four planes and one more will be added this year. Three more planes will be added subsequently, “said Trujet's ma naging director V Umesh.
 
 The airline will also fly to  , which will not be part of the Udan scheme. “There is good patronage for the Mysuru flight owing to demand from business travellers, leisure travellers and those who travel on social visits, “said Umesh. There is a cap on fare and prices go up after the booking of 35 seats but the maximum fare will not exceed Rs 3,000, he added.
 
 Neyveli, Salem and Hosur are also part of the regional connectivity scheme. Sinha said the Airports Authority of India (AAI) was taking steps to operate flights to Hosur airport under the scheme. “Discussions are taking place on some of the nitty gritties of operating the airport, “he added. The GVK-run Bengaluru airport has not given an NoC for operating flights at Hosur citing its proximity to the Bengaluru airport.
 
 “A few airstrips in Tamil Nadu have also been included in round two of the bidding but airlines must show interest in starting services when the ministry is ready to provide the airport infrastructure, “said Sinha.
 
 Striking a bullish note on the regional connectivity scheme, Sinha said that the Vijayanagar-Hyderabad flight would be launched on Thursday. Sinha also said that the focus would be on con necting islands like Andaman and Nicobar and Lakshadweep and hilly regions in the northeast under round two of the bidding due to open by the end of the month.
 
 “We could get 30 airports operational this year across the country and Mysuru is one among them. There is a levy on the airlines and we use that money to fund the airports, “Sinha said.
 
 “The Udan scheme is so popular that Indigo and Jet Airways, which did not participate in the first round of bidding for routes, have decided to take part in the second round of bidding. Indigo and Spicejet have placed orders for ATR planes which is a positive sign. We have made the scheme more attractive to airlines, “he said.
 
 Umesh said Trujet would also participate in round two of the bidding but the scope for more flights in Tamil Nadu was less because the airstrips available are smaller than the requirement for an ATR plane to land.
 
