CHANDRAPUR: Miners working at Durgapur and Padmapur mines of   near here are terrified of a   prowling in and around their mines. A sub-adult tiger entered Durgapur mine in daylight on Monday, and hundreds of workers watched as it moved along hardly 50 meters away. 

 Durgapur and Padmapur mines fall under WCL   area and are located on the fringes of the buffer zone of Tadoba. Labour leader Zia Ul Haque informed that the tiger was first seen on Sunday near the magazine between Durgapur and Padmapur mines. The beast attacked a cow in the morning, but the cow escaped as the entire herd of cows fled into WCL compound.
 
 Later in the evening, the tiger killed a buffalo in the same area. “However, panic spread among the miners when they saw the tiger moving into disposed part of Durgapur mine on Monday morning. Dozens of miners working at the mine saw the tiger move along the overburden dump and clicked its picture," he said. The pictures of the tiger moving on OB dump of Durgapur mine have gone viral in the area. 
 
 Haque claimed that around 2,000 miners and staffers work in Durgapur and Padmapur mines in three shifts. They travel to and from the mines late in the night and there is a threat to the life of those on the roads while the tiger is prowling around, he said. The road passing along the Durgapur mine is the only road leading to   gate of Tadoba, and a large number of tourists also travel along the road during the day. Haque demanded immediate measures to drive the tiger away from the mines.
 
  confirmed the presence of a sub-adult tiger around Durgapur and Padmapur mines. He claimed that the department has deployed its Rapid Response Unit (RRU) in the area and they are patrolling in the morning and evening hours to monitor the movement of the tiger. He, however, did not speak of taking up any operation to capture or remove the tiger from the area. He maintained that they are watching the situation, anticipating that the cat would go away on its own from the area.
 
