CHANDIGARH: Calling for a higher degree of discipline for the paramilitary forces as compare to police force, the   has held work of paramilitary jawan is “arduous and akin to soldiers in the Indian Army”. HC has made these observations while upholding the dismissal of a   (BSF) jawan who was found drunk when not on duty.

 Further clarifying that a BSF jawan is entirely different from a police official, HC has held that for a BSF constable to be found in a state of intoxication is a serious charge, as the nature of responsibilities of guarding borders of the nation is serious business. Policemen are not exposed to sudden death everyday like the members of the paramilitary forces striving to keep our borders safe and secure and quelling internal strife.
 
 “This court cannot lightly interfere with quantum of punishment while dealing with the paramilitary forces that have to be vigilant, cautious and alert at all times when on duty and when not,” held the single bench headed by Justice Rajiv Narain Raina in his order released on Friday.
 
 In this case,  , a resident of Amritsar, had approached the HC after the BSF authorities had refused to convert his dismissal from the service into compulsory retirement as per the HC orders passed in August last year.
 
 Kabal Singh had joined 91th battalion of BSF on March 22, 1991. On August 23, 3002, the Summary Security Force Court (BSF’s court) dismissed him from the service after he was charge-sheeted for consuming liquor. Even he had also admitted before the BSF court about consumption of liquor.
 
 His dismissal orders were also upheld by the trial court as well as appellate court in Amritsar. Finally, he had filed second appeal before the HC challenging the dismissal orders.
 
 His main argument was that the penalty of dismissal from service for consuming alcohol while not on duty hours would be too harsh and it is disproportionate.
 
 Hearing this, a single bench of the HC headed by Justice P B Bajanthri on August 2, 2016 had remanded the matter back to the disciplinary authority of BSF to re-consider the penalty of dismissal to that of compulsory retirement, as the jawan had rendered around 11-years’ service in the force.
 
 On November 1, 2016, the Inspector General, Rajasthan frontier, BSF has conveyed to the petitioner Kabal Singh that the penalty of dismissal imposed by the summary security force court ruling is just and proper and merits no interference and hence the case cannot be converted into compulsory retirement.
 
 Aggrieved from the orders, Kabal Singh had approached the HC seeking directions to quash the November 1, 2016, orders.
 
