Chennai: Fuelled by demand and increased consumer buying in smaller towns, jobs in FMCG, consumer durables, construction and real estate witnessed growth in February. After a dip for two consecutive months in December and January, February brought relief to those on the lookout for jobs in these sectors with a 8% rise in demand, reveals the latest RecruiteX, the recruitment index by TimesJobs.

 Sales professionals, who were witnessing an average rise of 1% in demand since December 2016, saw an 8% jump. With businesses scaling up and corporate reorganisations, business development roles were sought after.
 
 Consumer durables/FMCG posted an 8% rise in talent demand while the retail sector recorded a 7% rise. Construction and manufacturing saw a 6% and 4% rise respectively. The BPO/ITeS sector saw stable demand, while IT/telecom industries registered a drop of 1% in hiring during February 2017.
 
 “There are clear signals of FMCG/consumer durables companies recovering from the aftermath of demonetisation. The immediate impact of the move could be seen with slack demand in the following months. Now, these companies are steadily growing and need workforce to supplement their efforts,” said Rituparna Chakraborty, cofounder and senior VP, Teamlease.
 
 Job creation growth both in volume and value terms is being driven by tier-2 cities with Lucknow posting an 18% rise in talent demand. “Businesses are expanding operations and moving into new geographies, leading to a rise in demand for fresh talent in non-metros,” said Nilanjan Roy, head of strategy, Times Business Solutions.
 
 Consumer durable sales in smaller towns are being driven through e-commerce and brick and mortar stores. “The purchasing power of the population in category B and C cities has improved substantially. If an FMCG brand wants to take a TV to smaller markets, they have to employ as many people to market and take the product. Deeper market penetration is creating jobs,” added Chakraborty.
 
 February also brought in demand for freshers. Those with less than 2 years experience reported a rise of 4% . While other categories saw a rise too, senior professionals who were in demand since November recorded a 17% drop. “Employment generation is happening at the entry level. Professionals with 3-8 months are in demand. Those who have some experience even in a small way are being taken in by corporates because companies need workforce and there is dearth of employable professionals,” said Chakraborty.
 
 
