If you’re a regular at Connaught Place, get ready to leave your car behind, put on a pair of comfortable shoes, and do some walking. Come February, cars and buses won’t be allowed in the middle and inner circles for a period of three months. The move is part of a pilot Smart City project that is to be launched next month to reduce pollution and control traffic in the area. The decision was taken in a meeting chaired by Union Minister M  , and was attended by officials from the Urban Development Ministry, NDMC and Delhi Police. However, this hasn’t gone down well with the New Delhi Traders Association (NDTA), which says that the move is "unfair and will adversely hit business." 

 
 
  
  Back to the past? A picture of Connaught Place back in the day, when   were in use
 
 
 Atul Bhargav,  , says that the decision has come after many rounds of discussion, and that the association expressed its concerns when the idea was first discussed as well. "The NDMC has been talking about this for some time now, and we have always maintained that it is impractical to be doing this in what is a commercial hub in the city. Two-three weeks back, we had a meeting in which we told the NDMC that we do not agree with this decision, and that over 500 members, including representatives from major establishments from  , have signed a memorandum stating that we are against this move. Whenever they have blocked movement in the inner and middle circles, the outer circle has gotten choked, leading to major traffic congestion. The last time they did this was on Yoga Day, and traffic was affected in the outer circle. If they are going to block vehicle movement in the inner and middle circles, where will they create a large enough parking space for people to park their cars and walk? Smart cities are all about smooth traffic movement, not about blocking movement completely," says Bhargav. He adds that the plan is being implemented to have open-air eateries in CP. "A plan like this can’t be successful until you remove hawkers and vagabonds from the inner and middle circles of CP," he says.
 
 The major concern that the traders’ association has is that footfall will be affected if vehicles won’t be allowed in the inner and middle circles. "Business is already low post demonetisation, and the winter sales, which should have begun in mid-December, have just started. Business was just starting to improve now, and then they announce this. How will we sustain businesses? If they experiment with CP like this, our business will be gone. Why don’t they try this in markets like Sadar Bazar and Chandni Chowk instead? CP already has walking corridors,” says Bhargav, adding that they are soon going to have a meeting with stakeholders regarding this, and "if need be, some strict action will be taken."
 
 
 
 
