RAJAHMUNDRY:   this   have gone hitech, thanks to demonetisation of high-value currency. Plastic money and Aadhaarenabled transactions were ubiquitous even as the cock fight organisers set up wi-fi facility with CCTV recording and drone cameras for “transparency“. The punters could not cheat as everything from feeding roosters to payment of bets was under electronic surveillance. The drone cameras hovered all around the venue, of ten keeping a tab on an approaching police patrol team.

 There were only a few cases of arrests on day one of the three-day Sankranti festival on Friday. Punters in East and West Godavari districts, where cock fights are held with political patronage, made a cool ` 80 crore on the first day. The real betting will take place on Saturday and organisers hope the turnover will hit ` 300 crore. Since the `business' is illegal, there is no official record of the turnover. Swiping machines were borrowed from merchants and the bets were shown as purchase of some commodity.
 
 Attracted by the `lavish' arrangements, one punter created flutter by firing his pistol three rounds in the air at Srinivasapuram in West Godavari district. This led to commotion in the village.The accused has been identified as Dayakar, a native of Khammam district in Telangana. Police later took him into custody. Cock fights were also held in other districts too. Ironically, ruling party and   leaders were present at many places. Police conducted surprise raids at various places in East Godavari and arrested more than 25 people. They also seized money during the raids. For the first time, online transactions were accepted by punters at several places in West Godavari district.
 
 “Cash flow was sufficient at the cock fight arenas as the organisers had procured new currency . At least three major cock fight arenas were opened in each of the mandals in the Godavari districts. The arenas resembled mini stadia with galleries and seating arrangements,“ one punter said. There were private security guards. Mobile phone transactions were also encouraged.
 
 Luxury vehicles like BMW , Audi, Benz, and Fortuners were seen moving in dusty villages as several influential persons from various parts of the state thronged the Godavari districts. Thousands of vehicles were seen in Konaseema, Amalapuram, Rajolu, Palakollu, Narsapuram and Bhimavaram.
 
