We all love humour and enjoy laughing our hearts out at silly jokes. Who doesn’t? But, we also agree that some jokes do not have the same impact when translated into English or Hindi and are best told in our mother tongue. Over the past few months, there has been rise in standup comedians in the city who perform in Indian languages, who have successfully managed to tickle our funny bones. BT tries to decode what goes into making a vernacular standup comedy act a hit and why there are more takers for it in the city…
Local standup comedy is fast gaining popularity
 Abhishek Savalagi, co-founder,  , says that   standup comedy is becoming popular because of the youth. “Today the audience wants something quick and fun. They want a complete paisa vasool performance. Kannada standup has turned in such a way that it can be included into pop culture as well,” says Abhishek.
 Also, certain jokes have a bigger impact when told in our mother tongue. Says  , standup comedian, “If the joke is told in our mother tongue, it has more weightage. The effect is harder and stronger. I remember I did a show in the city and in the last five minutes, I performed Tamil standup act, which got a wonderful response.”
 But things are way easier today, says actor, director and writer  . “Standup comedy has been around for 2-3 decades, but today the format has changed. Earlier there were shows on TV such as  . It would have humour and would contain a social message in the end. But the format has evolved now. Today, the content is about two or three incidents, with four or five people engaging an audience for 90 minutes,” he adds.
 So, what makes regional standup acts click? “Today, if you can crack jokes around your friends, make them laugh hard, you are elevated to a stage. Also lot of corporates look out for such shows. It is easier to have a standup act since other art forms like a dance performance will require a lot of preparation. For standup, all you need to do is wear good clothes and speak, which is what gives them confidence to perform in front of an audience,” says Yashavant.
 Also, several open mics being held on a regular basis gives upcoming comedians a platform to showcase their talents. “We organized open mics and in the third such instance, our team was formed,” says Abhishek.
 Content plays a crucial role
 Making people laugh is no easy task and to make them laugh while telling jokes in local languages is difficult. “Content plays a crucial role. Our jokes usually have a universal appeal, but we need to add some local element in it. We tell jokes on marriage and about software engineers, but present it in native fashion,” says Abhishek. Praveen agrees and adds, “I have to tweak the jokes when I perform in Tamil. For instance, when I joke about Tamil films and politics in Chennai, it will get a wonderful response. But when I did something similar in Bengaluru, I didn’t get the same reaction. So I realized the content needs to be universal here,” he adds.
 Vernacular will only add to pre-existing standup acts
 Yashavant says that even though there are several takers for English standup comedy, vernacular acts can make space and all can co-exist. “There will always be takers for vernacular jokes in the city,” says Yashavant. “The idea of having vernacular standup acts is that it can co-exist with English and Hindi ones. Such acts won’t take away but will add to the already existing acts,” says Praveen adding that there is a separate audience for each and there is enough space for all.
 Abhishek, on the other hand, believes that vernacular acts have an added advantage. “It is a tough competition out there but we have an added advantage of the language,” he says, adding that in order to reach out to a wider audience, more shows need to be organized. “When upcoming performers see the kind of response Kannada acts get, it gives them courage to perform. It will be a healthy competition in the future,” he sums up.
 
 
