Justice  , who died at the age of 86 on Saturday, grew up with  . As a jurist, as a  , a woman and mother, she embodied humane and liberal values. All her life, she argued for a better world.

 She did not have anything easy, as an Indian woman of her time, when the language of aspiration, feminist solidarity and glass ceilings was not available. She got married and moved to the UK with her husband, a shoe-company executive, and stumbled into the law. She topped the London Bar exam, only one of many firsts in a stellar career. As the first woman judge in the Delhi high court and first woman chief justice of a state high court (Himachal Pradesh), she blazed the way in a male-dominated field. She wore this huge achievement lightly, once describing how a group of people wandered into the high court, having seen the zoo, they wanted to see the woman judge too. Seth refused to be boxed into traditionally female areas of work like family law, taking up criminal and constitutional cases. She often argued for a better workplace environment that would not force women to make stark choices between career and family responsibilities. 
 
 Through her career, she spoke up for human rights and due process, and against prejudice and intolerance. She both called out the judiciary and defended its independence. In an article for TOI a few years ago, she famously spoke up for “the right to love”, denouncing Section 377 that made a criminal of her son,  . She helped amend the Hindu Succession Act that gave daughters equal rights to joint family property. She strongly believed in a Uniform Civil Code, in a way that would truly ensure equal rights to female citizens.
 
 She was a member of the 15th Law Commission, and, at the age of 82, of the Justice Verma committee to reform laws on sexual violence, after the Nirbhaya gangrape. She expressed her unhappiness at how the law ultimately failed to make marital rape a crime, or to make rape a gender-neutral offence.
 
 She wrote three books — We, the Children of India, making the Constitution’s preamble meaningful to young minds, an autobiography titled On Balance, and most recently, a selection of essays, Talking of Justice.
 
 For all her accomplishments,  , for better or worse, was often referred to as the mother of novelist Vikram Seth. She was clearly proud of him, as of his siblings Aradhana and Shantum, all of whom have trod their own singular paths. “She is my author”, Vikram Seth jokingly said about his mother. Lata, the famous heroine of A Suitable Girl, was loosely modelled on her.
 
 Age did not dim her light in the least. Seth was a frequent presence at lectures and book events, curious and engaged in current events. It is not something that can be said of most people, but Leila Seth was truly alive until she died.
 
 
