MUMBAI: Officials at the Cricket Club of India, which houses the Brabourne Stadium, had factored in the presence of about 10,000-12,000 spectators for the warm up One-dayer between India `A' and England on Tuesday. This was a conservative estimate at best, given that India's most successful skipper in the limited overs format,  , was going to lead the side out in blue one last time.

 Expectedly, an hour-and-a-half into India A's batting in the afternoon, the venue that can accommodate about 25,000 spectators was nearly packed to capacity.
 
 Everyone associated with the organization of the game, including the policemen on duty, seemed to be taken by total surprise. All that one could hear from the stands were chants of “Dhoni, Dhoni, Dhoni.“ And as luck would have it, Dhoni responded in the most magnificent manner, smashing an unbeaten 68 off only 40 balls to propel India `A' to a challenging 304-5, a target that the visitors went on to surpass with three wickets intact.
 
 True to his reputation as one of the game's greatest finishers, Dhoni struck 23 runs in the last over of the innings, bowled by paceman Chris Woakes, who had done reasonably well until then, conceding 48 runs in nine overs. The first delivery was dispatched for a six, with Dhoni making room and heaving the ball over backward square leg. A couple of boundaries followed before the captain struck a six over midwicket, sending the already excited fans into a tizzy .
 
 A little while earlier, when Dhoni walking out to bat in the 42nd over after Ambati Rayudu retired having struck a fine century, excitement reached fever pitch. The security personnel had some sprinting to do in order to catch hold of a fan who had run on to the pitch to touch Dhoni's feet.
 
 The match provided an ideal platform for the likes of opener Shikhar Dhawan and allrounder   to get into the groove before they take on the same opposition in a three-match ODI series starting in Pune on Jan 15. The duo made the most of the opportunity, scoring 63 and 56 respectively.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 Nevertheless, it was Rayudu who finished as top-scorer for India `A' with a well-struck 100. His knock, that came off 97 balls, was laced with 11 boundaries and a six.
 
 Coming in to bat at No. 3, Rayudu stitched together a partnership of 111 runs in the company of Dhawan before the latter fell to fast bowler Jake Ball, who had him caught by wicketkeeper Jos Buttler. Thereafter, he combined well with Yuvraj Singh and the duo put on 91 runs for the third wicket. Yuvraj showed glimpses of his old self in the 34th over when he struck spinner Adil Rashid for a couple of sixes.
 
 Meanwhile, Sam Billings emerged topscorer for the visitors, contributing 93 runs (85 balls, 8x4) while the other batsmen including openers Jason Roy (62; 57b, 9x4, 6x2) and Alex Hales (40; 37b, 6x4, 1x6), Jos Buttler (46; 38b, 3x4, 2x6) played useful hands.
 
 
