For many Punjab is flying to   on well paying job offers, dreaming of a fast up swing in their family's fortunes, reality turns out to be a  .

 This is the reality of   sentences by a   in on October 26, 2016, for the murder of a Pakistan national during a scuffle over bootlegging around a year and half back. An appeal is pending in the higher court while Dubai based hotelier and philanthropist S P Singh Oberoi is making efforts to save these youths by negotiating Diya (blood) money with the family of the deceased, Mohd. Farhan, in Peshawar, Pakistan.
 
 In 2010, too, 17 Punjabi youths were sentenced to death by a Sharjah court for death of a Pakistani man during a scuffle arising out of bootlegging. As many as 50 Punjabis have faced the gallows and two dozen have been sentenced to life imprisonment in these cases.
 
 Oberoi who paid most of the Diya (blood) money said, “All these cases are of murders deaths are the result of clashes between different groups involved in bootlegging,“ Oberoi has saved 74 persons, including 50 Punjab is, from the gallows or life imprisonment by settling their cases by paying blood money.
 
 “Most of the youths who go to the UAE are from poor families. On reaching there, they find there is a huge difference between what the travel agents who sent them to UAE promised and what they actually getting from the companies. As many of them have funded their journey by taking loans, they are trapped. Unable to earn enough money to send back home, they gravitate towards boot legging to make a fast buck,“ said Sukhjot Singh of Sanghera village, near Barnala, who was among the 17 youths saved by Oberoi from Sharjah.
 
 He said that he was completely innocent, as were over half dozen other convicts living in a rented house along with other three dozen workers.
 
 “It is the debilitating combination of distress of debt back home and lure of earning extra money that has been trapping the Punjabi and Pakistani youths into bootlegging,“ said Namjot Singh of Raikot, who was also among the 17 freed. “My family spent Rs one lakh on sending me there but I could send very little money back home for 13 months before I was arrested,“ he said.
 
 Looking back at this dark period, Sukhjot said, “My family had borrowed Rs 70,000 from relatives and friends to send me, but my wages were too low and we could never repay the loan.“
 
 Describing the running of the bootleggers' business, Namjot said, “Different gangs operate in different areas and when they try to encroach upon the other's areas, clashes occur.“
 
 Sukhjinder Singh from Miani in Kapurthala district, who was among the 17 who could escape the gallows, said, “activities of some of workers from here in UAE also land others in trouble“. “The state government should run a major awareness campaign and crackdown on those travel agents who mislead people,“ he added.
 
