CHENNAI: Veteran actor   on Saturday was at the forefront of a small group of film personalities who voiced their disapproval of the   K Palaniswami government continuing in power in Tamil Nadu.

 With Palaniswami sweeping a majority in the vote of confidence motion following the opposition DMK's eviction from the floor, Haasan tweeted, "There you go. Seems like we have another CM. Jai de-mockcrazy."
 
 Haasan had been critical of the political developments in the state and had recently thrown his weight behind O Panneerselvam, the former chief minister, after the latter revolted against jailed AIADMK general secretary V K  . He had also egged other film personalities to join the political debate and voice their opinion.
 
 By evening, the hashtag #dissolveTNgovt was a top trend on Twitter. With netizens dissenting against Palaniswami and his supporters, Haasan tweeted saying, "People of Tamizhnadu, Welcome your respective MLAs with the respect they desrve back home." This particular tweet was re-tweeted over 8,500 times and liked by more than 14,000 of his followers.
 
 He then exhorted his followers to e-mail their opinions to the governor but urged them to be wise with their words. "Be decent, it’s Raj Bhavan, not Assembly.”
 
 Meanwhile, actor Arvind Swami expressed concern about the manner in which the confidence vote proceedings took place in the assembly. "If true democracy can be protected in an undemocratic manner, are we to feel happy or sad?" he tweeted.
 
 Swami then followed it up by saying, "In my opinion, The only solution that is acceptable under the circumstances is a re- election. This is not the people's mandate. Without exaggeration, I have not come across a single person in all my interactions in the last one week who supports this administration."
 
 Meanwhile, DMK's actions on the assembly's floor drew praise from netizens on   sites. Memes painted M K Stalin's exit from the assembly with an unbuttoned shirt in a positive light, even as they condoned the ruckus caused by the DMK MLAs.
 
 However, not all were taken in by the DMK's actions. “Real hero today is those 11 men who voted against the motion. Hat's off to them. Not theatrical rowdy DMK.#houseofchaos #dissolvetngovt,” said a tweet from the user handle @MissionJourney.
 
 
