Trichy: While the social welfare department is in the process of implementing the Madurai bench’s order pertaining to the controversial   Ministries Children‘s Home, parents anxiously await the decision of the state government regarding the 32 children whose DNA matched theirs. Sources said that the government may form a committee to execute the order.

 Gandhiammal, 40, wife of Paraman, 45, from Mela Sempatti near Usilampatti, was overwhelmed when her daughter, a young woman staying in the home, reportedly expressed her willingness to visit her village on Monday. The court had let the adult inhabitants decide their future course of action. The mother and daughter had a chance to meet at the wedding of Esther 25, another inmate, with Gladys, 27, at a church run by the home, on January 30.
 
 “I met my daughter at the wedding yesterday. She is eager to meet the rest of the family. But we have no idea when the state will allow this to happen,” said Gandhiammal, who has two other daughters and a son. She was forced to give up one daughter to the home due to poverty. With the court order out, she hoped the government would expedite the process to reunite with her daughter.
 
 Other parents are also in a similar dilemma. K Eswari, 42 and K Maharajan, 45, from Buskaranpatti near Usilampatti, are also keeping their fingers crossed, ever since the court passed the final order last November 30. Their daughter is a minor living in the home. The court had ordered that she be lodged in Nagammai Children’s Home in KK Nagar.
 
 However, the couple from Orissa, are hoping for some good news from the state to reunite with their daughter. “Being a minor, my daughter should live with us. Our DNA has matched. What more proof does one need? I want the government to take speedy action,” said Eswari.
 
 ChangeIndia director A Paadam Narayanan, who had taken Mose Ministries to court for illegally accommodating 89 girls reportedly rescued from female infanticide in Usilampatti area two decades ago, demanded the government not delay any further. 
 
 
