LUCKNOW: Much before mobile phones and laptops became common in the country, Lucknow’s corporators were already discussing municipal issues and policies on pagers way back in 1995—thanks to the vision of veteran politician and sports enthusiast late Akhilesh Das. 

 During his brief stint as Lucknow   in 1993-96, Das brought about major changes in the city—from removing encroachments from LMC land to making shops at commercial places and renting them out to the unemployed. He made one of the most controversial structures in those times—Aminabad’s underground market into a park, which was later demolished and replaced by an underground parking.
 
 His biggest   was removal of stubborn encroachments from most LMC land to make way for small shops in markets of Lalbagh, Dayanidhan Park, Badshahnagar, etc. He even managed to evacuate encroachment from a 50,000 sq m land in Geetapalli to reestablish a cemetery. He also gifted Babu Banarasi Das (BBD) Community Centre—named after his father—to the locals of Sadar. 
 
 His contemporary, Alambagh corporator Girish Mishra said, “Soon after Das became mayor, he distributed pagers to every corporator to remain connected always. This brought a revolution in the municipal setup as the connectivity helped us discuss civic problems on the go.” One of city’s major landmarks the creation of Sankalp Vatika on Nishatganj Bridge and installing famous Gandhi-Nehru statue within it was during his term as mayor. He brought the statues from Rajasthan. 
 
 His secretarial staff Anand told TOI, “Designs for the mayor’s chamber along with renovation of municipal commissioner’s room and conference hall in LMC headoffice was made during his tenure.”
 
 Das was Union minister of state for steel in UPA-I from 2006 to 2008 when he built BBD UP   Academy in Gomtinagar which hosts international matches every year. Around the same time the Akhilesh Das Cricket Stadium was built on   campus, of which he was the founder and chairman as also of several BBD educational institutions with hundreds of students of dental science, engineering, management, pharmacy, etc. Besides being a prominent educationist, he promoted business and commerce in Lucknow as hotels and housing projects came up in Gomtinagar and Chinhat areas.
 
