KANNUR: The residents of Ramanthali near the Indian Naval Academy ( ) in Ezhimala are on the warpath again, in separate groups, over the contamination of the water in the locality, allegedly due to the sewage waste from the   (STP) in the academy.

 The   revived the stir on Thursday, with the action council vice-chairman P K Narayanan starting an indefinite hunger strike, demanding the closure of the plant. The strike was inaugurated by awarding winning filmmaker   who honoured Narayanan by draping a shawl. 
 
 Meanwhile, the action committee under C Krishnan, MLA would start a sit-in from Friday, demanding the authorities to immediately upgrade the STP as per the stipulation of the   ( ) and also find a sustainable solution to the water woes in the area.
 
 Jana Arogya Samrakshana Samithi said the only way to solve the issue is to shut the plant that causes water contamination. “We started the agitation because we face the problems and we know the only way out is the closure of the plant,” said Sunil Ramanthali, joint convener of the Jana Arogya Samrakshana Samithi. He said that the people were sceptical of the intention of the other group.
 
 However, C Krishnan said there is no logic in demanding the closure of the plant and what is needed is to address the issue of water contamination.
 
 In a meeting on Wednesday the INA authorities had agreed that the STP is yet to get the approval from the PCB, which has suggested them to upgrade it as per the enhanced norms.
 
 However, addressing the media after a meeting called by district collector Mir Mohammed Ali, Commodore Kamalesh Kumar, commanding officer, INS Zamorin of the INA, had said no agency including Centre for Water Resource Development and Management (CWRDM) which tested the water in the locality, has conclusively said that the contamination of groundwater wells at Ramanthali could be attributed to the leakages in the STP. They have appointed a consultant, who would submit a report on the STP in two months and then once it gets the clearance from the PCB, the renovation of the STP would begin on war footing, he said. 
 
 
