NAGPUR: For a select few of the 1,135 contestants in the fray for   (NMC) elections, their name matters more than the political party. These are corporators from small political parties, independents or some who keep changing parties in elections, but still get elected each time.

 One among them is Raju Lokhande of Imambada in South-West Nagpur. Representing Akola-based BRP-BMS party, Lokhande has been elected over five consecutive terms. The BRP-BMS has little presence in the city. He is in the fray for a sixth consecutive term and will create a record in the civic body if he is elected in the elections on February 21.
 
 In the civic body’s history of 153 years, it is said no corporator has been elected six consecutive times. As per NMC records, four persons have become corporator five times each. Himmatrao Saraikar and Mahadeorao Borkar were elected for five terms. MLC Anil Sole and BJP’s Sunil Agrawal too have been corporators for five terms, but they were co-opted corporators for one term.
 
 Lokhande told TOI his work, public contact and personal image matters in NMC elections. “I have respect for my party and what I am is due to my party. I am confident of getting elected the sixth time due to my work and presence in public,” he said. Lokhande, aged 52, has been a corporator for 25 years.
 
 Two more sitting corporators — Kishor Gajbhiye from South Nagpur and Rahul Telang from North Nagpur — have been elected three times each and are in the fray for the fourth term. Gajbhiye was elected for the first time in 1997 as an independent candidate and lost in 2002 elections, also as an independent candidate. He won in 2007 from   (BREM) and from   (BSP) in 2012. Now, he is contesting as a Congress candidate.
 
 Telang started his political career with BSP and got elected in 2002 for the first time. Then, he switched over to BREM and was elected in 2007 and 2012. With BREM now in an alliance with the BJP, he is contesting for the RPI (Khoripa) party.
 
 Former corporator  , also from North Nagpur, made in to NMC in 1997 as an independent candidate. He won in 2002 from the NCP. He switched over to the Congress and got elected in 2007. Due to women reservation problem, he roped in his wife Savita, and she was elected. He too contested from another ward but lost. Now, he is contesting as a Congress candidate.
 
 One thing common among all these four corporators is that they are Ambedkarites.
 
 Two more sitting corporators — Ravindra Dolas from East Nagpur and Aslam Khan from North Nagpur — also fit the bill. Dolas was elected twice as an independent corporator and is again contesting as an independent. Khan is a corporator from   (IUML), which has very little presence in the city. He is also in the fray for a third term.
 
