PATNA: Traditional market places like Patna Market, Hathwa Market and Khetan Market as well as shopping malls in the city are witnessing a surge in footfall with the festive season picking up the pace. People start visiting shops and malls since afternoon. 

 A resident of Boring Canal Road, Shoumik Sen, was busy shopping at a mall on   on Wednesday. “I am looking for a good pair of mojari juti to match it with my kurta and churidar. Earlier I thought to order it online, but I feel buying things personally and the charm of shopping during the festive season give a different feeling altogether. Shopping during Durga Puja is tiring, but I love it because I can even enjoy street food with my family during this period.”
 
 Every year, fashion trends change and so does the people’s choice.  , a shopkeeper at Patna Market, said people, especially women, are confused this time as what to buy and what not to. “Kurti-shararas and skirt-kurtis are more in demand than saris or traditional salwar kameez. It is the top draw for festive occasions. This outfit makes them look glamorous with traditional touch,” he said.
 
 Khetan Market shopkeeper   said, “All the items at our store are latest keeping in mind the changing fashion trends. As far as the sales are concerned, it is gradually picking up. The market will witness the huge rush till  . Palazzo, straight pant with long kurtis and kurti-sharara are more in demand among women. Kids are also looking for designer skirt and tops. Long kurtis with intricate embroidery in the flares, sleeves and collars also have many takers this season.”
 
 Poonam Abhishek Singh of   was shopping at Patna Market. “I am very confused this time. I don’t know which attire will look good on me — palazzo or skirt-kurti. Both the dresses are in fashion and reflect my personality. If I get a good deal, I will buy both. So far I bought other necessary items for Puja and home decor,” she said. 
 
 The malls and supermarkets also have enticing offers like discounts up to 50%, free gift coupons or shopping coupons, which add to the rush.
 
 Sapna Kumari of Ashiana Colony said she loves the festive season because of huge discounts and affordable rates, especially at big malls. “I bought two dresses, a pair of shoes, a bag and an imitating folkloric jewellery at just Rs7,500. I have to pay only Rs5,500 as I got Rs2000 free coupon on purchase of Rs5000,” she said while shopping at a mall on Fraser Road. 
 
