NASHIK: Godavari pollution case petitioner Rajesh Pandit has alleged that the civic administration has not complied with nearly 50% of   orders based on   guidelines.

 The Bombay   had asked the petitioner to prepare a report on the court’s directions from 2012 till present. Apart from this, the report was to include the   (Neeri) recommendations and information on compliance and noncompliance by the civic body and other agencies.
 
 On February 28, the activist submitted the report with a chart of compliance and noncompliance to the HC. The hearing of the report went on for two days, with the second hearing held on March 1. The order was recently on the HC website.
 
 “Neeri’s first recommendation was to maintain the river’s ecological and environmental flow. We understand that there was a drought-like situation last year, because of which this could not be done. But the river’s flow can be maintained now as there is no drought. The HC order and Neeri’s recommendations have not been complied with,” Pandit said. 
 
 He added that the untreated sewage should be properly segregated and channelled to the sewage treatment plants (STP) and not into nullahs and tributaries like the case at some city areas.
 
 “Existing STPs should be upgraded and biological oxygen demand (BOD) should be brought down from 30 to 10. This was to be done before Kumbh. Apart from this, some bridges nets were put up, but a few have worn out. These nets are to be installed at all bridges. In 2013, the HC asked four PSIs and 30 policemen to be appointed to keep a check and fine people polluting the river, but this was not done. On the contrary, the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) appointed retired army officers for the job. This is the first time the HC asked for police protection for a river in India, but this was not followed,” he said.
 
 Spreading awareness, preventing washing of clothes and vehicles, as well as installing sign boards on riverbanks warning of a penalty and barricading the area to prevent vehicle entry to the river were some of the other directions that were not complied.
 
 The NMC refuted the allegations, saying that they had complied with all the directions. “The civic body has complied with all the directions. The court clearly stated in its order that the NMC has already submitted a detailed response to the chart. The HC has acknowledged our response,” SR Vanjari, NMC’s executive engineer, said.
 
 On issues like the installation of bridge nets, washing of clothes and vehicles in the river and upgrading the existing STPs, he said they were all in of completion. “We are perfectly in tune with the orders. The NMC has complied with all directives,” Vanjari said.
 
 Pandit added that all compliances were to be done long ago, but the NMC is still in the process of doing it. “Most of them had to be done before the Kumbh. Many of the compliances were met with during the Kumbh, and were to be continued. Let the HC decide whether the compliances have been followed through. The MPCB and the MIDC compliance reports are still awaited,” he said.
 
 A copy of the chart will be sent to the state government, the   (MPCB) and Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC). The next hearing is on March 21, for which all parties are to be present.
 
