PATNA: With Holi round the corner, clubs, restaurants, water parks and other public places are gearing up for the much awaited ‘Holi Milan’ functions.

 The water park on the outskirts of the city has two Tomatina style events scheduled on two different days. Skin-safe Holi colours and tomato will be made available to play with during ‘Rang Barse Tomatina’ on March 7. A cycle stunt show and rock band performance has also been planned for the visitors’ entertainment. Bhojpuri singer Amrita Dixit will perform at ‘Mohe Rang De Tomatina’ on March 11. Other entertainments include a flash mob, musical rain dance with Punjabi dhol, special Holi games and dance performances. The main attraction of the event will be water balloon and tomato fights.
 
 The   is also organizing Filmy Holi at a water park on March 13. DJ performance with water ride and street food counters will be the main attraction. The organizers have planned to keep the Holi celebrations a family affair.
 
 A special menu for buffet and à la carte has been designed by a city restaurant in Bandar Bagicha for customers from March 8 to March 12. The menu will include delicacies like celery seeds (ajwain) pakodas, orange and rose malpuas, chocolate gujias and kathal biryani. Non-veg lovers can enjoy mutton and chicken kebabs along with raan-e-pukhtaan, a specialty made from a whole leg of a lamb cooked in special patented spices. There will also be a ‘live counter’ where thandai, golgappa and chaat would be made available to the customers. Garlic kheer and green chilli halwa is also on trial by the team of chefs.
 
 To add a classic touch to Holi celebrations, local singers Anupama Kashyap and Pt Ashutosh Mishra would perform at   on March 8. The event has been organized by Sarvodya Group.
 
 With the festival of colours round the corner, women in the city have already begun their ‘Holi Milan’ celebrations. 
 
 Lions Club of Patna Femina held its   festivities on Sunday. The celebrations also marked the launch of Lion’s Club Indradhanush, a new club. Lions Club of Patna Femina members have made sure to use skin-safe colours this festive season. Songs were dedicated to individual club members in a segment, ‘Bura na mano Holi hai’. Some members took to stage to belt out festive songs and perform Bollywood dance numbers.
 
 Members of   were excited to celebrate an alcohol-free Holi this year. They gathered near the Panchayat Bhawan in Machua Toli area to dance and play with colours to mark the occasion. They believed the prohibition in Bihar was a positive step towards ridding the state of addiction.
 
