JAIPUR: Thirty-year-old MBBS doctor known more for his criminal acts was shuttling between   and Rajasthan near Alwar district of Rajasthan. In order to evade arrest he had made a fake identity card of Haryana police with a designation of sub-inspector which he used to show whenever he was stopped, even by Haryana cops. This was revealed by   (ATS) sleuths during interrogating Kuldeep Yadav, a day after his arrest on Sunday.

 Sleuths have also recovered the fake ID card in which there is a photograph of Kuldeep but he has changed his name on the ID as Kapil Kumar.
 
 “When our men posing as excise officers nabbed him he had shown us the same fake ID card of Haryana and claimed he was a sub-inspector with Haryana police and not Kuldeep Yadav,” said Vikas Kumar, superintendent of police, ATS while talking to TOI on Sunday.
 
 On how important is the fugitive for Rajasthan police, Kumar said, “When he escaped from Alwar jail, two of our constables were sent jail for three months for connivance. Likewise, he was shuttling between Haryana and Rajasthan through Alwar and was involved in extortion and kidnapping in the areas close to Alwar including Behror and Neemrana. Since Alwar is close to Haryana border it was easier for him to do some criminal act and move towards Haryana.”
 
 So far, the accused has also confessed that he had even used the fake ID in front of police officers of Haryana many times and got away easily as the policemen believed he was one of them.
 
 “He said that while he was on the run many a time he had used the fake ID card of Haryana police to claim he was a sub-inspector working with Haryana police. During then Haryana police too believed him. He posed so confidently in front of them that he had even shared for which battalion he was working,” Kumar added.
 
 ATS officers said that their Haryana counterparts too have spoken to them as the fugitive is as important for Haryana police as Anand Pal Singh is for Rajasthan police.
 
 “Just like we have two rival gangs run by Raju Theth and Anand Pal Singh, the neighbouring state has Cheeku and Kuldeep gangs as rivals. For us his arrest was important as he was a big nuisance in Alwar and nearby areas,” said a senior officer of ATS.
 
 It may be recalled that Kuldeep Yadav was arrested on Saturday by the team of   from Rishikesh. He escaped from Alwar jail and was on the run since December 2015. During that time he had also stolen an SUV from Alwar which he had used in a murder he executed in Haryana.
 
 
