RANCHI:  , the   nominated by the united opposition parties, will be in Ranchi on Saturday. The  , who has been fielded against the  , will meet leaders of Congress and other opposition parties ahead of the Presidential polls. 

 Jharkhand Pradesh Congress Committee president Sukhdeo Bhagat on Friday said preparations are complete for Kumar's visit. He added, "She will arrive from Patna in the morning and meet Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) president Shibu Soren at his residence in the afternoon." Shibu's son and former chief minister Hemant Soren will also be present at the meeting. Kumar is also expected to meet Jharkhand Vikas Morcha - Prajatantrik (JVM-P) president Babulal Marandi at Soren's Morhabadi residence.
 
 Meanwhile, Congress MLA Irfan Ansari on Friday spoke out against the party's state leadership. Ansari, a first time MLA from Jamtara, expressed his discontent against Bhagat for participating in the Tribal Advisory Council (TAC) meeting earlier this week. 
 
 Ansari, who along with JMM MLA Amit Mahto was suspended for 14 days from this year's assembly budget session on grounds of misconduct during the winter session last November, accused Bhagat of "maintaining cordial ties" with chief minister Raghubar Das and "eventually dampening the opposition's resolve on the issue of Chotanagpur Teanancy (CNT) and Santhal Pargana Tenancy (SPT) Acts Amendment bill".
 
 "JMM leaders who are members of TAC boycotted the meeting. Ajsu Party, which is an ally of BJP, and its president Sudesh Mahto also boycotted the meeting. Bhagat should have boycotted the meeting too," Ansari said. 
 
 Ansari said Bhagat participated in the meeting with an aim to maintain cordial relationship with the CM. "He completely overlooked how the BJP government humiliated his fellow MLA at the assembly by suspending him," Ansari alleged.
 
 Ansari and Mahto were accused of spraying foam and hurling chairs at speaker Dinesh Oraon on the day the land law amendment bill was passed. Oraon suspended the duo from the entire budget session held in February this year. Bhagat refused to comment on Ansari's allegations
 
 Ansari, who has been vocal against Bhagat in past, said he has spoken to Congress' state in-charge B K Hariprasad on this issue.
 
 
