PUNE: Rafiq Shaikh has lived all his life in the Cantonment area. Born in the Cantonment hospital, Rafique runs his father's business near Shivaji Market. He says that his life has revolved around  , like most other residents. 

 According to Shaikh, he is a regular on the stretch as he gets his business supplies there.
 
  The East Street is, for all intents and purposes, the entertainment hotspot for the Camp areas, and by extension, much of Pune itself as well. While its parallel thoroughfare MG Road is a shopper's paradise, East Street General Thimayya Road under the  , is a foodie's Shangri-La. 
 
  It seems there is something for all tastes. For example, British food enthusiasts have made the 11 East Street Cafe their regular destination, while chowmein and manchurian lovers frequent the Chinese restaurants that are packed into the old and crumbling buildings. Watering holes and pubs have been made out of previously abandoned shops, over the decades. Some of these restaurants remind one of the kind of cosmopolitanism that historians write about the area. 
 
 George Restaurant, a name in almost every travel guide for the city, is almost a metonym for biryani and Middle-Eastern cuisines. Started by Iranian immigrants in the city, George's popularity may be attributed to it's ownership and 81 years of existence.
 
 According to locals, the buildings that host the restaurants are over a century old. Some of them are barely recognizable with all their refurbishments. But a few, whose owners are untraceable or are being litigated upon in courts, show every year of their century (or even more) in existence.
 
  The British-built Gothic and Grecian buildings have fallen victims to vegetation growth. Elements have also taken a toll on the intricate sculptures over the years. Some of them have even received notices from the civic authorities because of their dilapidated condition. Others have been rebuilt, and while that potentially saved lives, crucial history and architecture has been lost forever. 
 
 While a part of the single-storey building adjacent to the Kayani building has retained its older structure as a health centre and a telephone billing centre, the southern part is now a prominent restaurant. "This whole building was a ballroom and restaurant," recalled an elderly resident of the area.
 
  The   and the   library have surprisingly stood the test of time, despite being older than most of the structures. The Victory theatre beside the library has also been able to hold its ground, albeit after many ownership changes and facelifts. It has been screening movies and stage plays since the colonial era. 
 
