CHENNAI: In a move aimed at consolidating its position in the country's largest liquor market,   has initiated talks to acquire Lighthouse Funds-backed Imperial Distilleries for nearly `400 crore. Liquor trade in   is fully controlled by state-owned   (Tasmac), which raked in nearly `27,000 crore in sales last year. The state, which accounts for nearly a fifth of national liquor sales, has been a closed market for distillers from outside the state, with an influential local cartel enjoying monopoly for decades. We are in talks, but nothing has been finalized,“ a se nior Kals official told TOI while Imperial sources said nothing was firm yet.
 
 “There was speculation in 2014 that we will sell out. We didn't. Even now there is nothing concrete on the table. We will not comment,“ they said.
 
 Pudukottai-based Kals sells nearly six lakh cases a month to Tasmac, and owns regional brands like Magnus Choice, Black Pearl and La Martin, none of which is available for sale outside TN. Its strength is in mass market consumption.
 
 On the other hand, Imperial which counts Thilaknagar, Johns and Kyndal as its clients, bottles limited quantity . It is learned that  , the PE investor in Imperial, is pressing for a transaction that could pave way for its exit. Imperial has its distillery in Coimbatore and its promoters are related to Sakti Sugars group.
 
 It is not known if Imperial's Nethravathi Distilleries is also part of the transaction. Nethravathi owns a distillery in Tumkur, Karnataka. Imperial also has a unit in Goa and its Palakkad unit does contract bottling for United Spirits.
 
 The acquisition, if it comes through, could propel Kals into the top slot in the liquor hierarchy with a capacity to bottle more than 1.2 million cases a month in the state. The other big players in the state, V K Sasikala family-controlled Golden Midas and Balaji Distilleries, have a capacity of nearly a million cases each.
 
 The close nexus between lo cal liquor satraps and politicians has been a thorn in the flesh for global liquor giants.For example, Diageo-controlled United Spirits stopped directly dealing with Tasmac, fearing potential violation of anti-graft laws. Global liquor giant Pernord Ricard, owner of Seagram's, does not have a Tamil Nadu presence for similar reasons.
 
 “It is a tough market to do business but too big to ignore.Price increases do not happen often and unless you have local muscle power, business can get messy ,“ industry officials said.
 
 While liquor trade in India has been under severe strain with a court ban on liquor vending on state and national highways, the April 15 Supreme Court order dealt a death blow for several liquor markets. Tamil Nadu, however, does not seem to have been affected.
 
 In June, Tasmac placed orders for 46 lakh cases of IMFL and 24 lakh cases of beer; and 47 lakh cases of IMFL and 24 lakh cases of beer in April.
 
