PATNA: At least 506 students from 172 schools of the country took part in an on-the-spot painting competition organised by the   (BSPCB) at the Sanjay Gandhi Biological Park or   on Monday.

 The participants were divided into five different categories. Group-I consisted of students from classes I to II and was given the topic ‘Mountain, flower, and butterfly’. Class III and IV students in group-II were asked to draw paintings on the topic ‘Where did my sparrow go?’. Group-III, which had students from classes V and VI, drew paintings on the topic ‘Respect the environment — Use bags made of cloth and jute’. While group-IV consisted of children from classes VII and class VIII and were given the topic ‘Motor vehicle pollution and our health’, group-V had students from classes IX and X and were assigned the topic ‘Stop sound pollution, love nature’.
 
 “Last year 806 students participated in the contest, but this time their number remained low due to excessive heat,” said BSPCB PRO Birendra Kumar.
 
 Students from 13 districts of the state, including West Champaran, Darbhanga, Nalanda, Saran, Muzaffarpur, Vaishali, Begusarai, Gaya, Saharsa, Arwal, Jehanabad, Madhepura and Patna participated in the event. There were also participants from cities like Delhi, Siliguri and Mumbai. The three best participants from each category will be awarded on World Environment Day on June 5.
 
 Climate change: The department of science and technology, government of India, has offered a research project under its climate change programme to Dr Pradhan Parth Sarthi, head, Centre for Environmental Sciences, Central University of South Bihar (CUSB), to study the cyclonic disturbances over the Bay of Bengal. This is the second research project for Dr Sarthi under this programme.
 
 Dr Sarthi said intensity, frequency, wind speed and cyclonic disturbances will be studied using sophisticated mathematical models. “Such study is important to pre-empt disaster and drought conditions during non-monsoon and monsoon seasons over Bihar and Jharkhand. For this purpose, CUSB has collaborated with Cyclone Warning Division of India Meteorological Department, New Delhi,” he said.
 
 Dr Sarthi said in India, cyclonic storm is generally formed during non-monsoon seasons over oceanic surfaces of the Bay of Bengal and the   and move towards Indian land mass. “Whenever such cyclonic storm is formed over the Bay of Bengal, it moves towards north-westerly direction and enters inland areas of Bihar through Jharkhand,” he added.
 
 DAV workshop: A one-day service training workshop on ‘Capacity building programme on teachers in sciences’ was conducted at DAV BSEB on Monday. Technical session on ‘Effective lesson plan, minimal learning materials for slow achievers and science teaching with fun’ was also held. The resource persons were A K Jha of DAV BSEB, Dipti Kiran Choubey of DAV Gola Road and K K Pandey of DAV Walmi. All the DAV group schools of Patna region attended the workshop.
 
 Pink media workshop: The journalism and mass communication department of  , in association with Community Rights and Development Foundation, organised a pink media workshop at Darbhanga House on Monday. Faculty members talked about planning on advertisement preparation, feature writing, TV news, theme photography and caption writing. Director of PG department of JMC Shardandu Kumar and other faculty members were present.
 
 Saplings planted: Over 20 saplings were planted by students and teaching staff at Anugrah Narayan College on Monday. This drive is an initiative towards keeping the environment clean and green and ensuring that development is sustainable in nature. College principal Shashi Pratap Shahi was also present. 
 
 Summer camp: Over 60 children in the age group of five to 20 years are participating in the eight-day summer camp organised by   and Agarwal Charitable Trust near Bank Road here. The camp began on May 21.
 
 “The camp starts at 7.30am and continues till 10.30am,” said M P Jain, public relation officer of Bihar Pradeshik Agarwal Sammelan.
 
 “Children learn yoga, painting and meditation at the camp. Youngsters, on the other hand, are getting tips on basics of performing arts, such as acting, dialogue delivery and script writing by theatre personality Suman Kumar. Nitesh Kumar from theatre arts department of Hyderabad Central University is teaching students Rajasthani folk dance,” Jain said, adding children will be taught how to cook without using fire on Friday. They will also learn the art of making sandwich train, he said.
 
 A nominal fee of Rs 300 is charged from the participants at the time of registration. “Glucose, lassi and fruit juices are provided to children to protect them from heat,” Jain added.
 
