GURUGRAM:   attacks are taking a toll on city residents and the latest to join the long list of victims is an 83-year-old retired  , who was bitten by a street dog while he was on his way back home in Sector 17 on Monday night. 

 The incident has brought the tally of dog   cases in the area to six in just a month. In the last three months, Sector 17 has witnessed around 12 such incidents, claim residents. P S Dhankar was walking back home around 8pm when he was attacked. He received injuries in his right arm and left leg. “I decided to take another street, which I usually don’t opt for, while returning home. I was suddenly attacked by a female dog without any provocation. She was probably trying to safeguard her pups,” Dhankar said. 
 
 He further said the incident has made him cautious and he will from now on carry a stick every time he goes out on foot. 
 
 According to the residents, there are around 70   dogs in the area and their number is only increasing, overriding the civic body’s promise of sterilisation.
 
 “There have been around 25 dog bite cases in the past three months alone. Maids have been attacked a number of times and the elderly are scared to leave the house,” said Avdhesh Rao, general secretary, RWA, Sector 17.
 
 He further said six months ago, the residents had informed the MCG officials about the stray dog menace in the area, following which, some of the canines were caught and taken away for relocation. But the strays returned to the locality the same afternoon.
 
 “Ever since, police officers have been putting pressure on us in a bid to refrain us from taking any action against the strays,” said Rao, adding that if the MCG was indeed sterilising stray dogs, why were their numbers rising every day. 
 
 When contacted, MCG officials said they have been taking steps to sterilise strays and the residents must contact Friendicoes, an animal welfare organisation, to report such issues.
 
 At the upscale Valley View Estate on Gawalpahari Road as well, stray dogs have made life miserable for residents, especially children and elderly. 
 
 According to the residents, at least three children in the society have been attacked by stray canines in the past three to four months. Accusing the MCG of inaction, residents claimed there were over 40 dogs roaming around the society lanes day and night, making it difficult for them to come out. 
 
 “The number of stray dogs has been increasing, forcing hundreds of children to play indoors,” said Deepika Singh Chauhan, a mother of two living in the society.
 
 
