CUTTACK: State government aims to eradicate leprosy completely from Odisha by 2020. Besides, it also aims to bring down disability and deformities caused due to leprosy to zero within the target period.

 The government officials claimed this on Sunday during the visit of WHO goodwill ambassador on  ,   to the state. Sasakawa visited Dhenkanal district, one of the leprosy affected districts, and interacted with leprosy patients. Officials updated him about state government’s plans and measures taken to contain spread of the disease in Odisha.
 
 State joint director(Leprosy)   on Sunday claimed that both Centre and state governments have undertaken slew of measures like door to door screening of patients, massive   against leprosy, increasing the numbers of reconstructive surgery camps for leprosy patients to meet the target. “Presently, reconstructive surgeries of over 300 leprosy disabled patients are done in state every year. Our aim is to increase the number to 1000. Preventing disability due to leprosy is our priority,” said Swain.
 
 Even Sasakawa expressed satisfaction with the measures taken by state government to deal with leprosy situation. “The ASHA workers are doing a great job in the state. They are not only helping in identification of the patients but also ensuring proper care to leprosy patients,” said Sasakawa.
 
 However, looking at the figures of leprosy patients in Odisha, the state government’s ambitious plans seem difficult to achieve. Swain said in 2016-17, at least 9901 new leprosy patients were detected in the state through screening camps. Out of these newly detected cases, over 400 patients were disabled. Some of the worst leprosy affected districts are Bolangir, Bargarh, Sonepur and Boudh.
 
  “The figures are more because we had carried our intensive door to door screening of leprosy patients last year. Many of the patients were detected in early stage so we were able to cure them by providing timely treatment,” said Swain.
 
 Health ministry’s deputy director general on Leprosy, Dr Anil Kumar said   (SLAC) will be launched in Odisha in April. Under the campaign, awareness will be created at gram sabha level. “State officials have been directed to cover each and every village under the programme to ensure early detection of leprosy cases and to create awareness about the disease at the grassroots level,”.
 
