Ahmedabad: If those associated with the   had prevailed, the shape of   would have been different. The parishad was formed in 1952 in  , four years before the agitation for a Gujarati state began.

 “Mahagujarat Parishad leaders believed Gujarat encompassed areas from Aravalli in north to Abu, Dungarpur, and Banswada in east; Khandesh in west; and Dang and Umargam (Umbergaon) in south,” said Professor Ramji Savaliya, director of the  . “As noted by the secretary of the organization at the time, Amrut Pandya, Gujarat was at the receiving end in the   — a coalition of parts consisting of what is now Gujarat, Maharashtra, and Karnataka — because it had only 89 seats out of 315 in the Bombay state assembly.” Moreover, Savaliya said, the economic benefits from Gujarat were used for the development of other parts.
 
 Seeds of dissent
 
 Dar Commission (1948), and JVP Committee (1949) — made up of Jawaharlal Nehru, Vallabhbhai Patel and Pattabhi Sitaramayya — started work on reorganizing the states. After dissent erupted in the southern states, the demand for linguistic division of provinces stirred among both Gujarati and Marathi populations. 
 
 The Mahagujarat Parishad, primarily a grouping of educationists, examined the   question by considering aspects such as history and culture, language, geology and economics. 
 
 Historians say that the earliest idea of ‘Maha Gujarat’ consisted of areas that were home to Gujarati-speaking people in the Bombay state; Saurashtra, then a separate state; and Kutch which was governed by the Centre. Gujarati litterateur and politician Kanhaiyalal Munshi said in ‘Maha Gujarat Sammelan’ — held in Bombay in April 1948 — that Gujarat should be one and undivided.
 
 Formation of bilingual state
 
 The report of the State Reorganization Committee, tabled in January 1955, suggested the formation of a bilingual Bombay state by assimilating Marathwada, Saurashtra and Kutch and forming a separate Vidharbha state. This provoked anger in Gujarati-speaking people. In October that year, the Gujarat Congress met in Mehmdabad and proposed three states: Maharashtra, Bombay, and Gujarat.
 
 The next year proved to be decisive as four students agitating near the Congress Bhavan at Bhadra were shot dead by the police, on August 8. With more deaths in the following days, the biggest unrest after the Independence movement took place in the city. The CM of Bombay at the time, Morarji Desai went on a fast unto death from August 19. Political leaders met him on August 26 and assured him of a peaceful resolution. 
 
 On October 2, when Nehru came to Ahmedabad, the leaders of the Mahagujarat Janata Parishad (founded in the wake of police firing) including Indulal Yagnik held a parallel gathering drawing lakhs and overshadowing Nehru’s event. 
 
 The bilingual Bombay state — now comprising Saurashtra, Kutch, Vidharbha and Marathwada — was formed on November 1, 1956. At the same time, districts were redrawn. The public sentiment was reflected in the Vidhan Sabha elections of 1957 when Janata Parishad won 29 seats in the legislative assembly. When Janata Parishad tried to establish ‘Shahid Smarak’ near the Congress Bhavan in 1958, another agitation broke out.
 
 The Statehood 
 
 The   was passed in March 1960 by the central government under which Gujarat and Maharashtra were formed. Dang and Umargam were added to Gujarat after redrawing boundaries on linguistic lines. Experts said political leaders had reconciled to the idea that Gujarati and Marathi populations could not accept a bilingual state.
 
 
