RANCHI: Large parts of the city plunged into darkness on Wednesday after at least 14   in Dhurwa, Harmu, Kanke Road, Morabadi, Bariatu Road, Pundag, Itki, Ratu Road and other areas due to   in the state. Several electric poles, insulators, power breakers and other electrical installations were damaged in the incident. 

 While Jharkhand Bidyut Vitaran Nigam Limited (JBVNL) has already begun repair work on a war footing, managing director Rahul Purvar said the corrections might take some time in areas where it is difficult for the workforce to enter. 
 
 "We have received reports that electric poles are hanging over the Subarnarekha river. Unless the water level reduces, we cannot send our engineers to set it right," Purvar said. JBVNL officials also said that with trees falling at a rapid pace, engineers are finding it difficult to restore power supplies on time. "Power supplies have been disrupted at a number of places. Restoration works are on in full swing. All our engineers have been pressed into service and they are working overtime to ensure early normalcy," JBVNL's Ranchi general manager Dhanesh Jha said.
 
 Jha added, "Tar and concrete laid roads have left little space for the roots of the trees to penetrate well into the ground and have a firm grip. On stormy days, the trees fall on these overhead power lines."
 
 Meanwhile, Tenughat Vidyut Nigam Limited, (TVNL) the state-owned premier thermal power generating station at Lalpania in Bokaro district, announced to shut down one of its units due to disruption in coal supply by road. "The power supply in several parts of the state have been adversely affected due to large scale flooding. 
 
 The State Load Despatch Centre has advised us to shut down one of our units to match supplies with the demand," TVNL managing director Ramawtar Sahu said.
 
 Sahu said, in the last four days, coal supply to TVNL from coalfields of Central Coalfields Limited in Hazaribag have been severely disrupted due to large-scale flooding. 
 
 TVNL has two units, each with an installed capacity of 210 MW. While unit N 1 has been shut down, the normal generation of around 180 MW is continuing from Unit No 2.
 
 
