MUMBAI: Taking strong objection to Pakistan awarding the death sentence to former Navy office  , chief minister Devendra Fadnavis on Tuesday requested the Union government to take up the issue of his release with the Nawaz Sharif government. 

 The Sena, which has directed its MPs to raise the issue in Parliament, wants seek the NDA government to seek United Nations intervention. Jadhav spend his formative years in Lower Parel and his father and uncle are both retired police officials. A BJP delegation led by Mumbai city unit president Ashish Shelar meet Fadnavis and requested him to make efforts for Jadhav’s release.Fadnavis informed the delegation that he had already sent a letter to minister of external affairs Sushma Swaraj in this regard. Fadnavis said that Pakistan is trying to divert the attention of the world from its sponsorship of terrorism by raising such issues.
 
 Shelar said that the action by the Pakistan government was being condemned by entire country and there is strong reaction from all over the country. Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray has directed Shiv Sena MPs to wholeheartedly back the Centre’s attempts to secure Jadhav’s release. Thackeray, who was in Delhi on Monday to attend the NDA dinner conclave, held a meeting with Sena parliamentarians at MP Sanjay Raut’s home in the Capital on Tuesday.
 
 Thackeray urged party MPs to raise the issue in the Lok Sabha. Talking to mediapersons, the Sena president said, “The Centre should pull out all stops to see that Jadhav is set free. If need arises, then the government should take extreme steps in this connection.” 
 
 In a statement, the Sena said that the Centre should seek the intervention of the United Nations.
 
 The   Congress led by former chief minister Ashok Chavan on Tuesday launched a signature campaign for Jadhav’s release. The party’s workers will collect signatures of citizens and submit a memorandum to the district collectors. Congress expects that while the Narendra Modi government will build pressure against Pakistan for his release, Fadnavis will Modi to ensure that he is released as early as possible.
 
 
