GURUGRAM: Many of the greats of classical   learnt their first steps not in the form they would one day go on to embellish but in  .

 Here’s a terpsichorean tradition that is more than 500 years old, a dance in which boys dress up as girls. These boys would perform at religious festivals, within and outside the precincts of temples, out of devotion to Lord  . 
 
 And on a cool Saturday evening, as the two-day   got under way at the Rangbhoomi open air amphitheatre, in the heart of New Gurgaon, it was the Gotipua boy dancers who took the plaudits, charming one and all with an effervescence of spirit and nimbleness of body.
 
 The turnout suggested that the classical performing arts are far from underappreciated in this age of instant entertainment. Vani Madhav, the Odissi danseuse who is the emotion and energy behind the festival, performed with her group, as did Sanjib Bhattacharya with his (Manipuri), both infusing their recitals with a soulfulness, poise and that indefinable quality which only experience can endow.
 
 The boy dancers, the youngest of them 7 and the eldest 14, are members of Dasabhuja Gotipua Odishi Nrutya Parishad, a troupe from the heritage hamlet of Raghurajpur that celebrated 75 years in 2016. Raghurajpur, incidentally, is the only place in India that can boast a Padma Shri, a Padma Bhushan and a Padma Vibhushan. History, clearly, breathes in these parts.
 
 So, to the accompaniment of live musicians, among them a singer and a flautist, and two instrumentalists – on the manjira (cymbals) and the mardala (a two-headed drum that features in Odissi recitals) – the boys proceeded to leave the audience spellbound with their vigour and agility, time and again bringing forth applause and exclamations of joy.
 
 The septet presented ‘Bandha’, or ‘Mokshya Nrutya’, a feature of Gotipua in which the dancers express through acrobatic movements. In the bodies of these boys, and in their supple limbs, Bandha became a manifestation that was at once robust and tender. The performance was a prayer for Lord Jagannath, this particular prayer written by a Muslim poet, Bhakt Salabega, a noted devotee of the god. Clearly, conversations between the faiths go back many centuries, whatever some might say.
 
 While Gotipua has moved on from its halcyon beginnings, it has done exceedingly well to adapt to the modern zeitgeist. And on Saturday, it made for an endearing finale to a beautiful evening.
 
 
