Indians are one of the most overworked lot in the world, says a new study. And to combat the disruption of work-life balance that comes with it, more and more youngsters are taking to the  . The internet has only made it easier and digitisation is all set to offer a huge boom to urban young entrepreneurs. But, is it that simple? When it comes to hitting the mean between life and work, are start-ups really the answer? Turns out, not really. And the challenges that comes with establishing a profitable business from scratch, has its own hassles.

 
 
 
 
 
 Start-ups are ever evolving. And keeping oneself in sync with emerging trends in the concerned business is of paramount importance. Add to this, there’s nobody to help you with it, because, it’s your start-up, your responsibility.  , who runs a boutique food delivery start-up, says, “A start-up literally means that the founder himself needs to do everything, be it accounting, sales, marketing, networking or logistics. He is a one-man army. There are times when the delivery guys do not turn up and I have to deliver the food to the client myself. In my kind of business, the biggest challenge is delivering on time. So, I decide to personally train my drivers and delivery guys to make use of technology. Whatsapp for faster communication, Google maps for faster navigation, emails for recording all transactions… you have to keep improvising in a start-up and for that, you need to have some kind of digital knowledge. 
 
 
 When you are just starting out, carving a niche for yourself in an ever-growing and competitive market can be very challenging.  , who gave up her corporate job to delve full-time into her venture of selling quilled, handcrafted products, realised that the hard way. “For the first three months, I ended up paying three times of what my initial budget was for the property, agents and advance fees. It was a harrowing time. And even now, when we are finally starting to break even, the market is not ready to give us a break. There are people who would like to do business with us. But they will negotiate hard because we are new in the market. Even if they like our products they will demotivate us to make us settle for much less than our asking price.”
 
 
 With so many start-ups emerging constantly, it is important to understand your product before you go all gung-ho about it, suggests  , CEO, of a waste management company. “While it is good that so many start-ups are coming up, the major problem is that either there is lack of funds or you have so much fund that you don't know how to utilise it in an optimum way. Another major reason is that not many have thorough knowledge of their product, and its possibilities. So, when they are out in the market, they get flustered by small hiccups.”
 
 
 
 
 
 For Hardika, talking to someone who understands her situation always works. “One of my friends also runs a venture of his own. So, we seek comfort in each other whenever the   becomes too much,” says the youngster. And that’s exactly what one should do, according to psychologist  , who stresses, “An occasional talk with those who have already been in this setup before or are still into it, will help.” 
 
 
 According to Patel, building the right team for your start-up is half the battle won. And Dhanuka could not agree more. For him, the solution is to chill with his team. “As the leader of the organisation, it’s my job to remain calm and positive, even during a crisis, or else others will get stressed and it will result in a domino effect. So, I take my staff for movies, parties, drives, celebrate birthdays together to beat the stress. In a start-up, you need to be like a joint family; it works wonders, trust me,” he smiles. 
 
 
 According to Dr Prashant Bhimani, a consultant psychologist, competition, anxiety and constant comparison are the major reasons for mental as well as emotional stress in youngsters. Patolia understands this well. She says, “Society is a huge challenge. They are not ready to cut you the initial slack and expect returns immediately.” But Dhanuka advises, “Stressing about competition is pointless. I am not saying, ignore it, but you cannot control what they do. You can only control your actions, strategy and plan. So, focus on that. Taking professional help is not a taboo anymore,” he adds.
 
 
 
 l Exercise regularly and eat healthy.
 l Take out at least 30-45 minutes daily to do what makes you happy. Choose something that is not connected to your start-up.
 l Talk to someone who understands your situation.
 l   breaks certainly help to get back into work mode with gusto.
 l Getting enough sleep is a must as it helps one concentrate better.
 
 
