BENGALURU: Cracking down against one of the many online   acts against  , Cybercrime CID sleuths arrested a 44-year-old man on Thursday for allegedly posting the photograph and cellphone number of a Bengaluru woman doctor on a famous classified portal, advertising her as an escort.

 The probe also revealed that the suspect had cheated many local women through marriage portals by approaching them as a prospective groom.
 
 CID sources identified the suspect as Gangappa Nanjegowda, a technical manager with garment design firm Tefron Trading in BTM Layout, who had used matrimonial portals like shaadi.com to lure divorcees, widows and women aged over 35 years, seeking marriage. Nanjegowda, a native of Mandya, is married and has a child but posed as a single man.
 
 “He contacted the complainant, a 37-year-old doctor, on December 31, 2016, through the profile he has created on shaadi.com. However, she declined the proposal a few days later, which infuriated Gangappa,” said an investigating officer.
 
 Nanjegowda, who resides in Bengaluru, often told his targets that he shuttles between the city and Port Louis in Mauritius. He called the doctor on the cellphone number she had provided along with her profile. He demanded to know why she had turned him down, but when she refused, he asked her out on a romantic date. “The doctor lost her cool and scolded him. An angry Gangappa then lifted her photograph from the portal and posted it on online classified site Locanto, advertising her as a call girl inviting clients,” the officer added.
 
 Following this, the doctor received over 500 phone calls, driving her to lodge a complaint with the Cybercrime cell a few weeks ago. Investigations led police to Nanjegowda, who was apprehended on Thursday afternoon.
 
 The probe also revealed that Nanjegowda had cheated many women after meeting them through matrimonial portals by promising marriage, and fleeing following a brief relationship with them. “His cellphone had numerous numbers of middle-aged women. While to one he had promised marriage within a week, to another he had fixed a meeting on Sunday. It is unsure if he had conned them of money or valuables, but a preliminary probe revealed that he met women through these portals only for sexual favours, which he achieved after promising wedlock,” another officer said.
 
 Gangappa Nanjegowda was remanded to judicial custody and sent to prison. Investigations are on to ascertain if the suspect had cheated more women. Police have advised women to use matrimonial portals wisely and not share phone numbers and other personal details without thoroughly establishing the identity of the person expressing interest online.
 
