PATNA: Amid reports of imminent split in   legislature party in  , state Congress president Ashok Choudhary on Friday asked the party’s central leadership to take a decision, at the earliest, on whether they want him to continue as state president or not.

 “I worked as state Congress president for almost four-and-a-half years, more than the normal tenure of three years. Overall atmosphere in the state Congress has been made poisonous by a few people sitting in Delhi and Patna. They are planting stories in media to tarnish my image. In such scenario, I am not able to concentrate on my work as state president. Now it is high time our central leadership should take a decision whether they want me to continue as the party’s president or not,” Choudhary told TOI on Friday.
 
 He said he was pained because a particular AICC functionary has been giving more importance to such persons who joined Congress just three years back after holding a series of demonstrations in the state against party chief Sonia Gandhi and vice-president  . “Before joining Congress three years back, these leaders, (while being in their original organisation), had been burning effigies of Sonia ji and Rahul ji on the streets of Patna. Now, they are issuing sermons to loyal Congressmen like us who spent their most part of life building the party,” Choudhary said without taking name of any person.
 
 People close to Choudhary said he was pointing fingers at former Union minister Akhilesh Prasad Singh, who has emerged as front-runner for the post of state Congress chief in case Choudhary is removed. Singh was earlier with   and he became Union minister with the backing of RJD boss   in UPA-I.
 
 Without taking name, Choudhary blamed an AICC functionary for creating mess in the state Congress. “A particular person in Delhi has been planting stories about so-called split in Bihar Congress in media with an aim to tarnish my image,” he said.
 
 Choudhary, apart from being the state Congress chief, was education and information technology minister in the   government.
 
 Though Choudhary denied reports of possible split in the party, sources close to him said the split was imminent. “More than 18 Congress MLAs, who want to cross over to the ruling JD(U), are looking for an alibi to leave the party. They are waiting for return of Rahul Gandhi from the US. If Choudhary is removed from the post of state president and any person from the opponent camp replaces him, the MLAs loyal to Choudhary will cross over to JD(U). If a person of Choudhary’s camp is made the state president, they will continue in the party,” a Congress MLA close to Choudhary said.
 
 To escape disqualification under anti-defection law, the rebel leaders require 18 out of 27 MLAs under its fold to effect a split and cross over to the JD(U). Insiders in the Congress said Choudhary has open support of 14 MLAs and pulling four more MLAs to his camp is not a very difficult task for him.
 
