NAGPUR: City police top brass, busy preparing for Union minister Nitin Gadkari’s 60th birthday celebration on Saturday, were shocked by a low-intensity crude pipe bomb going off on Friday at Sadar police station. Any panic was quelled, though, as cops discovered two letters by self-proclaimed revolutionary Mukesh Ambhore. In one letter, Ambhore, who had set off an explosive at the district court in 2010, claimed he wanted to wake up cops regarding the one-sided laws protecting women.

 The blast left a crack in the periphery wall while throwing up a cloud of dirt and smoke into the air. Three labourers engaged in renovation work at Sadar police station were having lunch in the garden when the bomb went off near them. One of the labourers,  , was hit by a stone thrown into the air by the blast.
 
 Ambhore apparently left the crude pipe bomb behind a cement bench in the garden after sneaking into the police station. The bomb was not visible in the CCTV monitors, where the blast could be seen taking place at 2.16pm. Ambhore’s act raises question on the alertness of Sadar police.
 
 Ambhore, who seems to be mentally disturbed, had also triggered a low-intensity blast in the treasury bar room in Nyay Mandir in 2010. He had at that time fitted the bomb under the table of a woman lawyer. There were no casualties or injuries, in both incidents.
 
 The cops were relieved to find out Ambhore was behind the blast, since several VIPs and senior politicians have started trickling in to attend Gadkari’s mega birthday party.
 
 With around half-a-dozen cases against him, including one for attempting to commit suicide at the high court in 2007, Ambhore was miffed with Sadar police since he had been repeatedly prosecuted with preventive action. Also, Ambhore felt that his applications before police for justice went unheard, a fact he mentioned in the letters.
 
 Police said it was after a dispute and subsequent separation from wife Sheilabai that Ambhore, father of two sons, had started hating the system. His experience in the family business of dealing with explosives and crackers at Sagar,  , helped him prepare the crude bombs.
 
 Ambhore’s letters were found some eight feet away from the blast site. Ambhore, who had no qualms to owning up the blasts in the letters, gave vent to his annoyance over helplessness of men pitted against heavily one-sided laws protecting women. In one of the letters, Ambhore also mentioned his own attempt to commit suicide in the high court by consuming poison on December 20, 2007.
 
 In the other letter, where Ambhore signed his name too, tried to highlight the alleged irregularities at the Ashramshala school at Umrer and other places with the connivance of tribal department officials, and other related issues, including transfer of a former Nagpur CP.
 
 A crime branch squad comprising API Sachin  , head constables Battulal Pandey, Prakash Wankhede, Rajkumar Tripathi and others, under DCP (crime)   managed to nab Ambhore from a spot near Meetha Neem dargah within two hours of the incident. Ambhore, after being acquitted in the 2010 blast case, had started living at Pardi, where he worked at a cycle store. However, Ambhore was mostly a vagabond and is also addicted to drugs.
 
