Masti, dance and fitness: After a hiatus of ten months,   returned to Noida. The Times of India initiative, Happy Streets 2.0 had a new location, opposite DLF Mall of India in Sector 18. Despite the change in venue, the old charm and energy was still there. Noida residents owned the streets on a chilly February morning in a carnival of masti, dance, and fitness.
 
 
  district magistrate   reached the venue early in the morning and officially inaugurated Happy Streets by releasing balloons along with several kids. The   said, “We all get up early in the morning so that we can reach office before our boss gets in. However, there is one boss we hardly ever beat – the sun. At least Happy Streets will ensure that few of Noida’s residents will get up before that ‘boss’ comes up and start the day on a positive note.”
 
 
 
  
  Young participants' day out in Noida (BCCL)
 
 
 
  The morning got off to an energetic start as the   started the proceedings with a lively session of Zumba. This was followed by a meditative yoga session by Sahaj Yoga, a Noida-based yoga group. Emcee Madhukar kept the crowd involved and entertained with his fun games and one-liners in between the sessions. While old favourites like cycling, badminton, and football made a return, there was a new attraction on the street as well, in the form of a giant live-sized foosball table, which proved to be quite popular among kids. Twelve-year-old Akhil said, "I have only ever played foosball on the table. So this was quite new and fun."
 
 
  
  Madhukar Malhotra, emcee (L) and NP Singh, DM, Gautam Budh Nagar (BCCL)
 
 
 
  While a lot of Noida residents were returning to Happy Streets, having participated in it last year, for many it was their first outing. Mili, a class X student of DPS, Noida, told us, "This is my first time at Happy Streets. I came here to just have fun and enjoy and it’s a great place. I have my exams beginning soon, but still, I’d love to be here next week as well." Dinesh Kumar, a Sector 19 resident, added, "It’s a very interesting and positive concept, one that every resident should adopt. Life is much more than just going to office and working. One needs to live fully and this is as good a way as any to start that."
 
 
