KOCHI: The Greater Cochin Development Authority ( ) continued with its eviction drive on Friday with officials evicting two lessees from its land at   and  .

 Officials evicted Kunjappan who had encroached 4.5 cents of GCDA land 17 years ago and continued to do business by setting up a dispensary there. When officials attempted to seal the building, Kunjappan and two other residents resisted the move. One of the officials got injured in the scuffle.
 
 “Whenever we tried to evict Kunjappan from the encroached land, he would approach the court and secure stay order on it. This time, the district collector and high court ordered in favour of GCDA and asked us to take over the land and demolish the building. Since the land is situated on the banks of Periyar, the cost of it comes to around Rs 25 lakh per cent,“ said an official.
 
 They have also disconnected electric connection to the building.
 
 Officials also took over 40 cents of GCDA land on Seaport-Airport Road in Kakkanad. Though the tenure of lease period ended, Lions Club, which took the land, continued to function from there.
 
 Officials erected fence around the boundary of both the plots and took over it.
 
 In January , GCDA had taken over 35 cents from Lions Club in Elamkulam which was given on lease 41 years ago.
 
 An official said they would also evict illegal shops functioning at Jawaharlal Nehru International Stadium, Kaloor, on Saturday .
 
 “We have to do some electrical works in the stadium to get no-objection certificate of fire and rescue department prior to FIFA U17 World Cup. We also plan to evict illegal lessees on GCDA plots in the next few days,“ he said.
 
 GCDA will also take over its land where SNDP had constructed a six-storey building in Kakkanad.
 
 “We have already taken over four encroached lands over the past five months and will take over three more soon. Since the government has increased annual rent in terms of market rate, people are not willing to take land or property on lease. So we are protecting land by erecting fence around boundaries,“ said GCDA secretary M C Joseph.
 
