MIRAJ (SANGLI DISTRICT): The   arrested homeopath Babasaheb Appasaheb Khidrapure (42) from Miraj in the wee hours of Tuesday in connection with the death of a   during an abortion at his hospital and the subsequent recovery of 19 aborted fetuses wrapped in   near a stream in village Mhaisal, 20km from the  , on Sunday. 

 “Khidrapure was arrested from a house in Miraj around 2.39am after he called the police to reveal his location,” Sangli deputy superintendent of police (Dy SP) Dattatreya Shinde told TOI. Later in the day, a magisterial court in Miraj ordered his remand in police custody till March 17.
 
 Miraj rural police’s assistant inspector  , who is investigating the case, said, “Khidrapure’s wife, Manisha, also a homeopath, is not a suspect in the case as investigations have not indicated any role that can be attributed to her.” 
 
 The police are, however, not ruling out the possibility of some other doctors and associates being involved in what is suspected as an inter-state illegal abortion racket. “We will be questioning some doctors and other people linked with Khidrapure,” a police officer said. 
 
 Assistant inspector Shinde said, “We had sent three police teams to places in Belgaum and Bijapur in neighbouring Karnataka on information that Khidrapure might have gone there. At the same time, we also called his family members for questioning. The suspect called up on his own in the early hours of Tuesday to tell us his location in Miraj.” Citing documents seized from Khidrapure’s Bharati Hospital, Shinde said, “The doctor would charge anything between Rs 10,000 to Rs 15,000 for an abortion. We have examined these documents.” A team led by Dy SP Patil conducted searches at the hospital on Tuesday. 
 
 In their remand report seeking 14-day custody of Khidrapure, the police told Miraj first class judicial magistrate K B Chaugule that the case required elaborate investigations considering the medical aspects involved. The report stated that the investigators wanted to interrogate Khidrapure on the sources from whom he procured equipment, medicines and drugs for conducting abortions and also to know who were his associates in his alleged illegal activities.
 
 The police told the court that Khidrapure had assigned agents at various places to solicit people who were looking for facilities where sex determination tests and abortions could be carried out. 
 
 Dy SP Shinde said, “Khidrapure had secured permission for an operation theatre in 2008 and also had the registration and accreditation for the facility. For some years, authorized doctors were visiting Khidrapure’s hospital but they stopped going there after learning that he was a homeopath. For the last nearly two years, Khidrapure began conducting operations himself, which he was not authorised to do.”
 
 Shinde said, “A witness, who was working as a medical assistant at Khidrapure’s hospital, has approached the police and narrated the activities at the hospital. This witness has confirmed that he would dump the aborted fetuses on instructions from Khidrapure. The doctor has himself confessed to the crime during his initial interrogation after we secured his police custody. The medical assistant is helping police investigators.”
 
 Of 19 aborted fetuses that were found, DNA tests could be conducted on eight for ascertaining their gender, said Shinde. The police have sought the help of forensic experts from the Government Medical College, Miraj. During their search, Patil and his team found two underground rooms in the hospital building. “Pregnant women were kept in these two dimly-lit rooms before and after the termination of their pregnancies,” Shinde said. “Khidrapure had a good network of agents across the state. He is based in a small village and patients from far-off places in western Maharashtra and northern Karnataka were visiting his hospital.”
 
