Aurangabad: The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay High court on Monday granted anticipatory bail to a city businessman, in a case of alleged rape of a 26-year-old woman. 

 The businessman was booked by the city chowk police on June 17, following a complaint by the woman. She has alleged that that the businessman had raped her at his home after giving her drinks laced with sedatives in February 2015. He also made a video which show both of them in objectionable positions.
 
 Later, he allegedly threatened to make the video public and raped the woman again on different occasions. Later, he dumped her despite promises of marriage.
 
 The businessman had approached the district and session court for a pre-arrest bail, but the application was rejected. He then approached the high court through lawyer Sandeep S Ladda.
 
 Ladda said his client was prepared to hand over his cell phone to the investigating officer for investigation.
 
 Following arguments, Justice V K Jadhav, allowed the businessman’s application, observing that, “it appears from the contents of the complaint that though the first incident has taken place in the month of February 2015, the informant has not approached the police. But on the other hand, she joined the company of the present applicant under one or another pretext. Only after realising that the applicant is not going marry her, in the year 2017, she has lodged the present complaint belatedly. Thus, considering the nature of allegations, I am inclined to grant pre-arrest bail to the applicant with certain conditions.”
 
 Disposing of the criminal application, the court directed that the applicant be released on bail, after furnishing personal bond of Rs 10,000, on the following conditions; the applicant shall not tamper with the prosecution evidence in any manner; shall attend the concerned police station on every Sunday between 9am and 11am; shall cooperate with the investigating officer in carrying out further investigation, including recovery of the mobile handsets, as ensured by the applicant.’’
 
 
