VISAKHAPATNAM: The state government will enhance the   in   to improve the performance of   in such schools, said HRD minister   

 Releasing the results of the SSC examination at YV Murthy auditorium here on Saturday, the minister said, “There is mid-day meal scheme, free uniforms, free education and we have the best teachers and yet we do not get the desired results from government schools.” 
 
 Lashing out against allegations that teachers with political and business connections were being given preferential treatment, the minister said, “That is not true. In fact, we have proper web counselling process in place and all the basic rules and parameters are being followed to ensure that there is transparency when it comes to transferring teachers from one location to another.” The HRD minister said, “We are also doing our best to help the teachers take initiative and pro-active measures to boost the performance of students. We are conducting workshops and recently, I personally conducted a meeting with various teachers unions from across the state and promised to sort out their issues. However, I also made it clear that they must perform.” 
 
 Regarding the issue of many teachers travelling 50 to 70 kms to reach government schools especially in rural areas, Ganta Srinivasa Rao said, “The matter is being looked into and we shall definitely address this problem.”
 
 “We will introduce kindergarten in government schools so that children can get used to going to schools at a young age. This will play a major role in introducing government school children to academic activity at a young age and this will definitely help in bridging the gap between private and government schools,” he said. 
 
 Regarding maths results, the minister said only 5,69,159 students out of 6,09,394 students across the state passed in mathematics with the pass percentage being 93.40%. The minister agreed that steps need to be taken to improve the performance of students in mathematics, especially in government schools. 
 
 State commissioner of school education K Sandhya Rani said, “We understand that there is a huge problem at the foundation level and we will take steps to ensure that the students learn the basics at an early age so that they can perform better in mathematics.” Regarding the remedial programme that was to be launched this year, the state commissioner said, “It is true that the programme was not carried out the way it was supposed to from March to April 2017. 
 
 We will make up for this by conducting extra class room sessions in the beginning of the new academic year, so that the students can be better trained.” 
 
