GUWAHATI: State police rescued around 75 dogs in  's Samuguri area on Thursday night while they were being smuggled to neighbouring Nagaland's   town. Four persons, identified as Raju, Parwi, Lokas and Sanil, all from Nagaon's Amsoi, were arrested and slapped with various charges under Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act and IPC. 

 Sadly, out of the rescued dogs, 23 have already died due to suffocation and stress. They were found with their mouths and legs tied together and put inside gunny sacks. Police have handed over the canines to People For Animal ( )  's shelter home.
 
 Animal welfare activist and PFA chairperson,  , shared her anger over the incident. "Why protection to cows only? Why not to other animals too? There should be a task force for the protection of all animals from any kind of cruelty," she cried. Out of the surviving canines, seven were reportedly critical. "Some of them are so weak that they can't walk properly. Our veterinarians are working on them," she added.
 
 Samuguri police sources said they busted the racket acting on a tip-off. "The four have admitted that they were taking the canines to Dimapur to sell them to dog meat market there. They lure the dogs, mostly strays, with biscuits containing something intoxicating. After the dogs fall asleep they tie them up for transportation. Their mouths were tied so that they couldn't bark," said police sources, adding that the animals were being taken in a vehicle with no permit for cattle transport.
 
 Sources inform that a healthy dog is sold at around Rs 800 to Rs 1000 in Nagaland, where dog meat is sold at around Rs 400 per kilo.
 
 "Without a strong law against animal cruelty, the scenario won't change," said members of PFA. Under the current laws, cruelty to animals in the country attracts fines ranging from Rs 10 to Rs 50 only. These penalties were determined when the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act was formulated in 1960, and the figures have not changed in the 56 years since then, alleged animal activists.
 
 
