Here's a great investment idea.   Rs 25,000 a month for 20 years and get nearly Rs 64,000 a month from the 21st year on wards for 16 years. The income will also keep increasing by 6-7% every year. The investment is eligible for tax deduction under Section 80C. What's more, the income received will be tax free and the buyer will also get   cover of almost Rs 80 lakh. Isn't that a great way to retire in comfort?

 That's what Sachin Khairnar also thought when he signed up for the Retire and Enjoy combination plan of 16 Jeevan Anand policies in 2012. “It sounded attractive as I would get assured tax-free income as well as life cover,“ says the Pune-based professional. Every year, thousands of buyers like Khairnar invest in traditional insurance plans, lured by the “triple benefits“ of tax deduction on investment, life cover during policy term and tax-free income on maturity .
 
 But traditional insurance-cum-investment plans give abysmal returns. ET Wealth looked under the hood of 10 such plans and found the average return was barely 4.8%. The returns were calculated using the internal rate of return (IRR) method. “Ask your adviser to calculate the IRR on the excel sheet as different companies and plans can give different returns,“ says Sanjiv Bajaj, MD, Bajaj Capital. If Khairnar's 16 policies will earn 6.84% returns it is because some of them are long-term plans and will continue till he is 70. A typical 20-year plan will not yield more than 4.5-5% return.
 
 
 
 
 The insurance companies do not dispute our calculations. However, they point out that these plans also offer life cover to the buyer. “No other investment product offers guarantee for a long tenure of up to 20-25 years, in addition to risk cover,“ says Manik Nangia, MD and Chief Digital Officer, Max Life Insurance. We agree these plans also offer  , a critical component of financial planning.However, these traditional plans are not the best way to get insured because they offer insufficient cover. A person earning `70,000-80,000 a month needs an insurance cover of roughly `1 crore. A term insurance cover of `1 crore will cost a 30-year-old male about `12,000-15,000 a year. But the same cover from a traditional insurance plan will require an annual premium of at least `10 lakh. Going for such a plan would mean putting all other goals on the backburner.
 
 
 
 
 Insurance cover is the last thing on the mind of the average buyer of traditional plans. His primary objective is tax deduction under Section 80C. “People buy traditional policies for tax savings, safety of capital, assured returns and life insurance cover, in that order,“ says Manoj Nagpal, CEO of Outlook Asia Capital.Almost 70% of the total business of life insurance companies is transacted in the last three months of the financial year when millions of taxpayers are trying to invest under Sec 80C.
 
 But life insurance is not the best way to save tax either. Other instruments can achieve that objective in a much better way . For risk-averse investors, there are 5-year bank fixed deposits and small savings schemes. The interest from fixed deposits and NSCs is taxable so the real rate of return for someone in the 30% bracket comes to 4.9% in case of bank FDs and 5.6% in case of NSCs. But the PPF offers tax-free returns of 8%. Those with daughters below 10 year can even opt for the Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana that offers 8.5% tax free.
 
 For investors willing to take a small risk, the NPS is a good option. It offers market-linked returns, though the investment gets locked till retirement and only 40% of the corpus is tax free. ELSS funds are also tax-free and have the potential to give significantly higher returns, though the risk is also higher.
 
 Insurance companies argue it is unfair to compare life insurance policies with other instruments on the basis of returns. “One should not consider returns alone. These plans also provide life cover and the cost of the cover should be factored in,“ says Sujoy Manna, Vice-President, Products, HDFC Life.
 
 That's a fair point. We compared the returns of an endowment plan with those of a term plan combined with the PPF and ELSS funds. Assuming a return of 8% for the PPF and 12% for the ELSS fund, both combinations would give better returns and higher insurance cover to the buyer (see table).
 
 
 
 Despite the poor returns and low cover, traditional plans sell like hot cakes in the last three months of the financial year. According to one estimate, traditional insurance plans account for nearly 70% of the total premium collected by the life insurance industry .
 
 There's a good reason for this skew.Ulip charges were capped in 2010 and term plans don't have high premiums.So, agents push traditional policies that offer them higher commissions.
 
 The other reason is that buyers don't understand the time value of money.They don't realise that the huge maturity amount being projected may mean little after 25-30 years. “The main reason that traditional plans provide such low returns is because of their payout structure,“ says   blogger and author M. Pattabiraman. “Payouts are not given as lump sum benefit but are spread across the years, which severely reduces the net return,“ he adds.
 
 
 
 
 Traditional insurance plans have one redeeming feature. They enforce a saving habit in the policyholder. Prodded by the agent, coaxed by a sense of responsibility towards their families and afraid of losing money due to lapsation, few policyholders miss the insurance premium. It is not rare to see a policy mature after 25-30 years of regular premium payment.
 
 Few mutual funds can boast such a loyal following. Data shows nearly 46% of   by small investors in equity funds are redeemed within two years.
 
 
 
