BATHINDA: Cotton sowing season is nearly two months away, but the   has already started efforts to ensure smooth sowing this year. 

 The agriculture department is buoyed over the cotton crop in the ongoing season. It is expecting farmers to switch back to cotton sowing, who had shifted to paddy in 2016, a year after facing the worst-ever cotton failure due to widespread attack of whitefly.
 
 The state agriculture department has written to deputy commissioners in cotton sowing districts to hold meetings with various departments to support weed eradication campaign for smooth sowing of the crop. The department has fixed a meeting with seed companies for March 3 to identify and recommend hybrid seed varieties for farmers and to order nearly 22 lakh seed packets (1 packet=450 g). The department expects the cotton to be sown over nearly 4 lakh hectares, a jump of 56.25% from 2016. The area had reduced to 2.56 lakh hectare in the last sowing season, lowest acreage since 1955.
 
 Cotton was sown over 4.5 lakh hectares in 2015 in Punjab but nearly 60% of the crop was damaged due to the pest attack. Many farmers had committed suicide in the aftermath of crop failure. The Punjab government had compensated farmers with Rs 8,000 per acre and a total amount of Rs 640 crore was disbursed among them.
 
 Owing to widespread devastation, the area stands reduced to 2.56 lakh hectare in 2016. This season, the cotton growers not only got yields of 8-8.5 quintals per acre up from 2.5 quintal in 2015 and also the price of cotton touched Rs 6,000 per quintal.
 
 “The agriculture department has started concentration on weed eradication as a first step and has asked the deputy commissioners of cotton sowing districts of Bathinda, Muktsar, Mansa, Fazilka, Ferozepur, Moga, Sangrur and Barnala to involve various departments in weed eradication to prepare ground for whitefly free environment. A meeting was held on Thursday at Bathinda where agriculture officials apprised the DC about sowing programme,” Punjab deputy director (cotton) Sukhdev Singh said.
 
 He added that a meeting would be held on March 3 with seed companies that will also be attended by representatives of   ( ), Ludhiana, to identify hybrid seed varieties. The companies would be apprised about the requirement of 22 lakh seed packets to be provided to the farmers. Sukhdev further added that the farm department would depute one scout each for two villages and one field supervisor each for 20 villages that would take the cotton technical know-how at village level.
 
 Meanwhile, Bathinda DC Ghanshyam Thori said to save the cotton crop from whitefly attack, officials of various departments were directed to start weed eradication campaign, which was to complete it by March 31 and submit weekly report to the office of the chief agriculture officer.
 
 
