NOIDA/GHAZIABAD: Fish vendors have also disappeared while the crackdown on meat shops is on. Unsure about licences and apprehensive about being accused of wrongdoing, fish traders are in a wait-and-watch mode. As a result, fish prices have risen, and the only places they are being sold are stores that sell cold cuts and a handful of permanent shops.

 According to the Ghaziabad district administration, rules that apply to meat and poultry shops are also applicable to stalls selling fish. Bihari Market in Ahimsa Khand 2; Kanawani off Pushta Road; Sector 3 Bihari Market in Vaishali; Maharajpur village; and Hapur flyover are localities where whole fish used to be cut and sold in stalls in the open market. These stalls which coexisted with meat and poultry shops have been forcibly removed by the administration too.
 
 “There is no separate licence for fish shopowners. Anyone willing to set up fish stalls will have to go through the same procedure for procuring a licence as is applicable for meat shopowners,” Ghaziabad district magistrate Nidhi Kesarwani told TOI.
 
 The Trans-Hindon area of Ghaziabad contains a huge floating population from different parts of the country, particularly those states where fish is the staple diet. 
 
 Over the past few years, there was a proliferation of fish stalls — like those selling staple varieties including whole rohu and katla and large prawns — in order to cater to this segment of the population. Sale of whole fish has completely stopped in Ghaziabad while marts inside market complexes have only cold cuts for sale.
 
 Akanksha (name changed), a resident of Ahimsa Khand 2, said cold cuts were not fit for any traditional Indian fish recipe.
 
  “Fish was almost immediately off the menu from Day 1 of the crackdown because no one stocked it up owing to its short shelf-life. The nearest place where we have been going to buy fish now is Ghazipur market in Delhi,” she said.
 
 In Noida, residents from fish-eating households and lower-middle class households in sectors 19, 25, 27 and 37 have started getting fish from nearby areas of Delhi including New Ashok Nagar and Mayur Vihar.
 
 Most of the fish-sellers of Noida have been coexisting in the city along with other mutton and chicken sellers in areas like Sadarpur, Sector 37, Chhalera, Bhangel, Harola and Nithari.
 
 
