NAGPUR:   ( ) had only themselves to blame for not capitalizing on numerous occasions which left their fate hanging in the   JSW Elite Division Football League.

 The Kamptee-based side needed just a draw against Rahul Sankrutyayan Sporting Club (RSSC) to book their semifinal spot. However, despite being in control for almost the entire match, they failed to score on more than ten occasions and lost their last Super Six match by a solitary goal at the Motibagh ground here on Sunday.
 
 NFC were trailing 0-1 when the match resumed for the remaining 60 minutes. The encounter on September 19 (Tuesday) had to be stopped due to heavy rains after 30 minutes of play. The remaining game was played on Sunday.
 
 It was a must-win game for Rahul as a loss would have sent them out. They had the advantage after   scored on Tuesday. On the other hand, NFC had to make every minute count to draw parity to move up in the league.
 
 NFC held the possession for most part of the match. They played smartly to their plan and created excellent moves dodging Rahul men. Despite beating Rahul defence often, they wasted ten sitters in the second-half.
 
 “My players are responsible for the loss. They failed to put the ball into the goal after doing all the hard work on the field. The players at key positions like forward, striker and half back did not do their work well and that cost us heavily. It is unfortunate that my players couldn’t score open chances in such an important match,” a disappointed ex-India player and NFC coach Bimal Ghosh told TOI after the match.
 
 Rahul’s goalkeeper Shubham Kanojiya was the savior of his team. When his defenders and midfielders were defeated by the swift NFC players, Shubham protected the box well. The lanky goalkeeper, who has been performing well from last two seasons, saved as many as four goals and also cleared the ball on counter attacks.
 
 Rahul’s midfielders consisting of Muzammil Khan and Vasu Kanojiya played crucial role in tackling the short passes style of NFC to get back the possession. Rahul’s winger Bosco Anthony did an amazing job by manning NFC’s winger Zeeshan Nawab and ruined his brisk moves.
 
 Though Zeeshan was surrounded by Anthony and defender Stanley Peter all the time, he managed to dodge them and even put a cross but none of his cross passes converted into goal.
 
 NFC’s strickers Sohail Ansari, Abhinav Yadav, Yadav’s substitute Rabindra Ghosh and Pragnesh Solanki missed at least two chances each, while the winger Jiten Kolt also missed an easy chance as they spoiled their own party.
 
