PUNE: Mark O’Connell has been in the field of biodiversity conservation for over 25 years, and in his countless sessions and workshops in countries with biodiversity hotspots he has noticed that being a conservationist is a difficult deal.

 “In some of these countries, an individual often struggles to find the resources he or she needs to be a conservationist in the first place, because there simply is not enough research or educational courses available for biodiversity conservation,” he laments.
 
 O’Connell is the director of  , a British-based network of conservationists and researchers, and is in the city for a three-day pan-Asian conference on capacity building for conservation in Asia being held at the  . Altogether 130 representatives from 13 countries have gathered at the conference, all of them either researchers or resource persons engaged in conservation of biodiversity.
 
 Most of the sessions are workshop-based, where delegates discuss case studies in conservation and their effectiveness, and unique challenges faced in conservation management in respective countries. The goal, according to organisers, is to build a network of so-called “capacity-builders” across regions, so that the approach to conservation is shared.
 
 This conference is the third in a series of sessions across the world, primarily focused on the most thriving biodiversity hotspots in the world. The 2013 conference was focused on  , and was held in Colombia, while the 2015 event was held at Nairobi, Kenya, to discuss the conservation situation in the sub-Saharan African countries.
 
 Organisers say that the series will culminate in a global seminar in late-2018 to discuss common approaches to protecting biodiversity hotspots.
 
 While recent conservation efforts in India have yielded some results, like the uptick in the previously vulnerable tiger population, O’Connell sounded a word of caution.
 
 “There’s always caution to be exercised while talking of the so-called charismatic species like tigers or pandas. Of course they are important and must be preserved, because they hold a place of importance in the biodiversity and draw in tourists. But one must look at the rest of the ecosystem too even the microorganisms, and whether they are being preserved as well,” he says.
 
 As for the needs of this continent, he says that official and academic research must be “translated and applied on the ground”.
 
 “There needs to be more research on biodiversity conservation. But even with the available research, there should be enough people with training to translate that research and actually apply it on the ground. In this continent, it is impossible for people to dream with conditions remaining as it is. Human civilisation and habitats will grow. So instead of identifying biodiversity hotspots, all researchers should look at threat hotspots,” he concluded.
 
