MUMBAI: India’s drug regulator will look into allegations that four leading pharmaceutical companies are colluding to set the price of anti-diabetic drug  , a move that may rattle the almost Rs 10,000-crore market in the country.
 
  A whistleblower has written to the National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority ( ) alleging that Swiss drugmaker  , US-headquartered   and domestic companies Emcure and USV Pharma have together kept prices of various brands of Vildagliptin at artificial levels, going against fair trade practices. ET has a copy of the letter, written on February 27.
  
  “We will look into this issue,” NPPA chairman Bhupendra Singh told ET.
  
  While Novartis denied the allegations, an Abbott spokesperson said, “These allegations are false. We have not received any complaint from NPPA on this matter. Abbott has a non-exclusive licence with Novartis for Zomelis. Abbott determines the price of Zomelis in trade channels and institutions. Abbott does not discuss prices of its products with any other companies.” Comments from the other companies could not be immediately obtained.
  
  Vildagliptin is a proprietary drug of Novartis sold under the brand Galvus and comes under a new class of anti-diabetic drugs known as DPP 4 inhibitors. These drugs are prescribed for patients with Type 2 diabetes and are considered to be far more effective in controlling blood glucose levels than the older class of drugs.
  
  Novartis has licensed the drug to other three companies, which sell it in India under their own brand names. Abbott sells it as Zomelis, USV as Jalra and Emcure as Vysov. The combined sales of these brands stood at Rs 822 crore last year.
  
  The whistleblower alleged that Novartis controls the pricing structure that is followed by the licence holders. Although there is no written communication between them, these companies also synchronise every price change.
  
  “Though business agreement does not specify the control that Novartis exercises on its co-marketer partners in terms of controlling the market and pricing, but in reality all these companies have formed a price cartel both in trade business and institutions business,” the whistleblower said in the letter.
  
  The same pattern, the complaint said, is followed in government and institutional businesses, where one company corners the large tender business monopolising the market and makes sure others do not quote a lower price during the tender process.
  
  “The overall behaviour goes against the spirit of fair trade practices and defeats the purpose of providing low-cost medicines to Indians. This is clearly anti-competitive and a clear case of blatant cartelisation,” according to the letter.
  
  “Novartis has received no communication from NPPA about any complaint against Galvus. All our business partners have the freedom to set their prices for the products where they have marketing/sales agreements with us and we do not decide their MRPs,” Novartis said. Abbott and Emcure did not immediately respond to ET’s queries. Repeated phone calls to USV’s Mumbai office went unanswered and one of the numbers was unreachable. Emails sent to the company’s official email ID bounced back.
  
  According to data from All Indian Origin Chemists & Distributors, all four brands of Vildagliptin are sold in the same price range. Ten 500-mg tablets of Novartis’ Galvus and Metformin combinations cost Rs 258 and so do such combinations of Jalra by USV and Vysov by Emcure. Abbott’s Zomelis costs Rs 235.
  
  India’s large burden of diabetes has made it one of the most lucrative markets for drugmakers across the world. An estimated 7.8% of adults in India have diabetes, according to the World Health Organisation.
  
  The anti-diabetic therapy is one of the fastest-growing segments in the country, recording sales worth Rs 9,314 crore in 2016 and growing at an 18% compared with the industry average of 10%.  , AstraZeneca, Boehringer Ingelheim and Novartis have licensed this new class of drugs to other companies.
  
  Whistleblowers in India face a tough fight when taking on big companies and public authorities, risking their careers and, in extreme cases, their lives. Some efforts have been rewarded handsomely, although not by Indian authorities.
  
  Dinesh Thakur, an ex-employee of Ranbaxy, was awarded $40 million by the US Department of Justice for exposing malpractices in his company. Thakur now has become a champion for improving drug quality systems in India.
