GUWAHATI: In keeping with the   across  , many countries adopt   during  , when the   The northeast, however, is still losing the battle in its appeal for a different time zone in a country so vast in its expanse. 

 The Gauhati high court has dismissed a public interest litigation seeking that the Centre have a separate time zone for the northeastern states, including Assam. Petitioner, advocate Reeta Das Mazumdar, had appealed for a separate time zone for the region citing its geographical location. "As sunlight reaches the NE region earlier than other parts of the country and sets early as well, a separate time zone would have streamlined the day-to-day life of the people of the region," the petitioner told TOI.
 
 The high court response came after the Centre said in 2003, a high-level committee constituted by Ministry of Science and Technology had already rejected the idea of separate time zones. Indian Standard Time is calculated on the basis of the corresponding longitude reference line in Mirzapur district in Uttar Pradesh. However, the vast breadth of the country means that there is an actual time difference of almost two hours across its western and eastern ends.
 
 In its reply, the Centre said, "The eastern states in the country do face certain disadvantages by following standard time due to early sunrise/sunset in the region. However, keeping this and the overall perspective in view, the committee recommended that the present system of a single and uniform standard time may be continued throughout the country."
 
 The HC order stated, "Having regard to the fact that the matter has been dealt with at the highest level, the court finds no good grounds to take a contrary view. In any case, it is the Centre's domain to decide whether the present system of a single and uniform standard time throughout the country should continue or not. The petition has no merit and is, accordingly, dismissed."
 
 Former CM Tarun Gogoi, too, had endorsed the idea of a separate time zone in the state, saying that a change in working hours is necessary for optimum utilization of daylight and conservation of energy.
 
 
