MUMBAI: In what may come as a breath of fresh air for a city starved of   spaces, an over two-acre park will soon be thrown open to   residents. As the locality is home to well-known Bollywood personalities, the walking track adjoining the park will get life-sized statues of veteran Bollywood personalities who lived in Juhu. That apart, the park will also boast a plaque with handprints of celebrities who currently reside in the vicinity. 

 Locals say they reclaimed the land after a “bitter” and almost a decade-long battle for the open space that was usurped by the land mafia. Ashoke Pandit, chairman, Gulmohar Area Societies Welfare Group, said the space had almost become a junk yard and trees were cut illegally. There were plans to build a club on it, too. “It was a tough fight. We got back the space after getting hold of all the legal papers. We have proposed that the park be named Kishore Kumar Baug and the amphitheatre created within its premises, Vijay Tendulkar Rang Manch,” said Pandit. 
 
 Lyricist and screenwriter  , who has given Rs 27 crore from his MP fund for landscaping the large green space, said this development is a dream come true. “We have envisaged the open space along with the amphitheatre in a way that the entire area looks more beautiful. The green space on the other side would also have a 4km walking track with benches. We also plan to have statues of Hindi cinema personalities such as Prithviraj Kapoor, Kishore Kumar and Meena Kumari. We will have handprints of several existing actors and the track could become like a walk of fame,” Akhtar told TOI.
 
 The park will be formally inaugurated on February 26 by tabla maestro Zakir Hussain. Architect P K Das who had conceived the Juhu Vision Plan along with the residents’ association said designing of the park, the amphitheater and a linear walking track along Irla Nullah are all part of the plan. “This is yet another achievement of citizens who have reclaimed an open space. The plan is to develop a network of public spaces, and this new park would be contiguous with the Kafi Azmi Park. We have created the walkway in the park in harmony with the amphitheater as a cultural square,” said Das. 
 
 Bharat Shetty, treasurer of the Gulmohar Area Societies Welfare Group, said the amphitheatre could become a space for young talent to perform at a “very nominal” cost. 
 
 “The beauty of this space is that we have tried to keep it as natural as possible. We plan to use it for an annual festival, which we may host in future,” said Shetty. 
 
 
