NAGPUR: After a conference involving Kashmiri students in New Delhi, the RSS’ Muslim wing is planning similar events in Naxal-hit states of Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand. The target audience here are the   and Christian missionaries, with the aim of dissuading them from violence and conversions respectively. The missionaries are being asked to shift their agenda to improving the tribals’ life rather than changing their faith.

 Indresh Kumar, convener of   (MRM) and executive body member of RSS, will be visiting Chhattisgarh’s capital Raipur on February 3. This will follow a two-day stay at Nagpur where he will hold meetings at RSS headquarters.
 
 Kumar will be attending a ceremony to install an idol at a temple in Raipur, where a large congregation of tribals is expected. Another function is being planned at Jagdalpur town in the Naxal stronghold of   region, followed by one in Ranchi, the capital of Jharkhand, another Naxal affected state.
 
 “The agenda is to wean away Naxals from violence and also seek the cooperation of the missionaries in the process. Talks have been held with the latter and they have agreed to cooperate,” Kumar told TOI. He said the RSS is also looking at other organizations, which may also like to work in this direction. It wants the tribals to become stakeholders in the region’s natural resources and also the development process.
 
 The organization is asking the Naxals three major questions. The first is, whom have they killed in their struggle since last 40 years. It’s either tribal like them or security personnel who come from ordinary backgrounds. They are also being asked whether anyone from the affluent class, against whom the Naxal are fighting, has been their target so far.
 
 The second is how much have the tribals, for whom they have been fighting for, gained so far, and whether any development or education has reached the masses. The third is about the Naxals’ own gain, except a life on the run.
 
 “Those prompting them to take forward the armed struggle don’t face bullets or live in the jungles. The rebels will be wooed to join the mainstream and contribute to the nation’s development, rather than playing into foreign hands,” said Kumar.
 
 Similar questions have been raised with the Christian missionaries too. “You can find huge churches in these areas, but the tribals still live in shanties,” Kumar said.
 
 He said that during meetings with representatives of missionaries, they were asked how much has religious conversion helped the tribal people change their lives. “It is wrong to woo anyone to change their faith by promises that it will take them to heaven,” said Kumar. 
 
 “The theory of the missionaries, that changing one’s religion can lead to salvation, is being challenged. Religion is just a means to purify one’s mind and soul. Instead of changing the faith, missionaries are being asked to work to change the tribals’ lives,” said Kumar.
 
 Missionaries have been making attempts to change the tribals‘ religion on the grounds that they are uncultured and don’t have a faith of their own. The RSS, on the other hand, has a different outlook. The organization says that tribals not only have strong religious beliefs of their own but also a rich culture, which is reflected in their songs and dances. The attempt should be to rather preserve their culture and faith rather than changing their world, he said.
 
 Kumar said the Kashmiri students conference was successful with youth from 22 districts of the state attending it.
 
 
