Open drains, overhead  , dark alleys and a handful of staff struggling to solve a multitude of   could be a thing of the past for residents of Avadi, Pallavaram and Tambaram as the government is planning to create three independent satellite municipal corporations adjoining Chennai, headquartered in these neighbourhoods.

 If the proposal gets through, people in places which are yet to see basic amenities could have piped water supply, street lights and motorable roads. For instance, areas falling under the jurisdiction of   are covered by underground sewerage system. A municipal corporation will ensure people living in villages within its ambit access to it.
 
 Formation of new municipal corporations would mean more funds from various financial institutions in the state government and the Centre. “Municipal corporations get a better share from the government. Loans can be availed for infrastructure-related projects,“ an official said. Municipal corporations open the window for a slew of services including improved sanitation. Like those living within  , people in the new corporations may have access to corporation-run hospitals and schools, online services and upgraded technology to resolve civic issues.
 
 K P Subramanian, former urban en gineering professor at Anna University, said corporations will have better technical knowledge for planning, designing and execution of basic amenities such as water supply, underground sewerage system, liquid and solid waste management. “Development will be regulated as constructions cannot be carried out in violation of building rules.The strength of officers will also increase for addressing issues related to civic amenities, leading to better quality of life,“ he said. However, he noted people may have to shell out more towards property tax and water tax.
 
 Real estate may see an upswing in the long term. According to Kanchana rm. According to Kanchana Krishnan, director, Knight Frank (India) Pvt. Ltd, real estate price in Chennai in creases gradually and over a period of time. “Infrastruc ture and connectivity are two major factors that influence growth of any city .This in turn will result in creation of new residential pockets. So appreciation of land will happen gradually in the medium to long term,“ she said.
 
 Though residents are enthused about the new proposal, some said authorities should not delay in providing civic amenities. While welcoming the move, S Mohanram, a resident of Thirunindravur, said some areas in   are yet to get underground sewerage system and metro water facilities even after five years of merging with Greater Chennai Corporation. “Such glitches should not happen in the proposed new corporations,“ he said.
 
