BHOPAL: While the   ( ) has been trying to solve cases of thefts on trains, it has brought some cheers on the faces of those who lost their cash and valuables during travel on  , as recoveries in cash post November 8, 2016 has been in new notes.

 The GRP had recovered and returned about Rs 1.5 crore in cash to victims of thefts in trains during 2016. Of this payment of more than Rs 40 lakh post Nov 8 has been made in  , said official sources.
 
 This way, victims of thefts and robbery were sparred from standing in queues at banks to get the old currency changed.
 
 According to the latest figures of the division, there were about 2,200 thefts reported in 2016, whereas property related crimes were 2,385. This includes robbery, dacoity and thefts and stolen articles included; jewellery, cash, mobile phones, laptops and other valuables to passengers, who had lodged FIT with the GRP.
 
 “After demonetisation we were directed to report the currencies in old denomination to the high court concerned and thereafter it would be returned to the owner after it is exchanged at the railway premises,” said Mankamna Prasad, Superintendent of railway police, Bhopal division.
 
 In 2016, total amount of Rs 7.8 crore was recovered under all kinds of crime including theft, lost and found and even from the cases of heinous crimes including murder or others. “Of all the 23 stations which come under Bhopal division, Bhopal has recorded the highest recovery rate, followed by Khandwa and Gwalior. All the cases have been cracked,” said Prasad.
 
 Percentage of recovery by police in Bhopal division (21%) is more than that national average that was 16.4%.
 
 In 2015, Rs 4.7 crore were recovered, whereas refunded amount was Rs 76 lakh; while in 2014, Rs 5.3 crore were recovered, of which Rs 83 lakh were refunded to the complainants. All these cases have been registered under crime section and section 41 (1+4) of CrPC.
 
 Recently GRP Bhopal division busted inter-state gangs like Haryana gang, Sasi gang, Begusarai Delhi gang and Azad Alam gang and made huge recoveries from them.
 
 After demonetization we were directed to report the currencies in old denomination to the high court concerned and thereafter it would be returned to the owner after it is exchanged at the railway premises
 
 Mankamna Prasad| Superintendent of government railway police
 
