KOLKATA:   press secretary Sean Spicer may have dismissed as "absurd" any correlation between US President Donald Trump's controversial remarks on immigrants and the Kansas shooting incident that resulted in the tragic death of Indian engineer  , but Kolkatans residing in the US have no doubt about who is to blame. 

 "In his speeches, Trump is continually instilling hatred among whites by talking about Islamist terror, Mexican crime and illegal immigrants taking away American jobs," says Dibendu Kundu from Lake Town who works in the justice department and lives in Ellington, Connecticut. 
 
 If hate crimes are not dealt with firmly, they feel Indians can become targets for very divergent reasons. In the mid-west where Indians are in sparse numbers, there is palpable fear of being mistaken as mid-easterns or Arabs. In cities along the east and west coast that have sizeable Indian population, the community is viewed as one that is a threat to American jobs.
 
 Nandini Bhattacharya, who hails from Salt Lake and now works in the Federal Drug Agency in Virginia, hasn't yet faced any awkwardness at work because her colleagues are qualified professionals. But she is extremely wary about the anger and hatred brewing among a section of Americans as they are incited by speeches and policies orchestrated by White House chief strategist Steve Bannon. "It is like reliving 9/11. It isn't yet there but we are heading that way. There is a lot of inflammatory rhetoric from the top," said Bhattacharya who lives in Olney, Maryland.
 
 Hate crimes in the US against Muslims and those who fit the stereotype spiked after 9/11. Sikhs with turbans, beards and brown skin were mistaken as Muslims and targeted. A Sikh-American named Maan S Khalsa was attacked in September, 2016 in California when two men punched him in the face and used a knife to cut his hair. This month, an Indian-American couple - Saravanans - found their home in El Paso County, Colorado vandalized with feces and racial slurs. "When I went to St Louis, I could sense the strong racial undercurrent. I will never walk into a pub there," said Bhattacharya.
 
 Bridgette Colaco from Park Circus, who teaches communication at   in Alabama, did go on a Mardi Gras pub crawl on Friday night with husban Pritesh and friends in Destin, Florida. It had been planned before and it was a big event on the Harborwalk. "During the day the Kansas attack was at the back of my mind but I don't want to live in fear so we went all the same. There was a very tall, well-built Caucasian, little tipsy who was walking by our stationery group eating pizza slices and he saw Pritesh and me who were a foot away buttoning our jackets. 'Hello welcome to this country,' he boomed into our ears. And he shook our hands. Pritesh was raised here and never lived in India. And as I walked away, it was reassuring to know that while some things change others remain the same," she remarked.
 
 Jacob Abraham, a graduate student at a university in Tampa, Florida that has two teachers from Kolkata, feels it's an inter-cultural problem that requires an inter-cultural effort to resolve. "You see Muslims crowd-funding restorations at a Jewish cemetery and you've seen Jewish crowd fund the restoration of mosques. The latest shooting of the Indian techie in Kansas City is indicative of the white people's refusing to be part of the valuable inter-cultural progress," he said.
 
