AGRA: Dr.  , a 34-year-old homeopathic doctor from Rampur Village in Hathras District of Western UP, has acquired a new name – “Toilet Dr”. 

 His diagnosis and the subsequent prescriptions to his patients are different from that of his peers. It has that one extra question, which others don’t ask. “Do you have a toilet in your home” and if the answer is “no’, what follows is a long lecture on the health benefits of making the village open defecation free and then a prescription, carrying the sane advice, “construct a toilet”.
 
 His relentless   for making his village ODF by getting toilet constructed in every home, has been recognised by the state government, as he is among the 2 people from 100 odd entries, who have been selected for their excellent work in   campaign under the Swach Bharat Mission. 
 
 He along with, Rajbala, the Pradhan of a village Ugrahu from  , would also be facilitated by the Chief Minister on October 2.
 
 Kushawaha built 210 toilets in his villages in a short span of 25 days and motivated hundreds of people across 184 villages for following suit. He told TOI, that being a doctor, villagers rely on his word and thus he had been ‘prescribing’ them to build toilets in their homes for living a healthier life. “Khule me saunch se 80% bimariyan failti hai..” (80% diseases spread due to open defecation), says a banner outside his clinin.
 
 Dr. Vinod Kushwaha said, open defecation is one of the biggest source for diseases and he has been educating his patients and others about it. He said he wanted his village to become ODF and that’s why he became part of the campaign and motivated others. He has in fact made a short film, “sauchalaya ki pratigya”, which was shot in Rampur and is screened in all neighbouring villages for motivating the people. All the artists who played a role in the film are villagers, who have now become motivators for the campaign.
 
 “I asked businessmen to provide construction material to villagers on loan, which they would pay back after receiving the grants from the government”, he said adding that this help had proved turning point for his campaign. 
 
 Kushwaha said that in order to spread a word about the campaign, he organized community meetings at night to discuss the ill effects of open defecation. Some tough measures have also been taken to bring about a change in the behavioral pattern of villagers. Nigrani samiti or vigilance committee were formed with women and children to keep a watch and identifying violators, he said.
 
 “We had to stop ration supplies of 40 people who were not ready to use their toilets”, he said adding that his policy of carrot and stick proved a boon to change the mind-set of such people. He said that he used to send teams of children to the fields to check if people were defecating and they used to blow whistles after seeing anyone with their pants down. He said that women were also part of such teams and they used to “snatch away” the ‘lotas’ of such people.
 
  and   of Rampur village admitted that they had built toilets in their homes after being convinced about its advantages by “Dr sahib”.
 
