AHMEDABAD: Gujarat high court once again pulled up the   on Monday on   and   and commented that the roads do not seem befitting for the heritage city.

 The high court chided the authorities by saying that they have no respect for the law. “It is a matter of implementation and not a question of law,” a bench headed by Justice M R Shah said on non-compliance of the HC orders.
 
  
  Reminding the   (AMC) of its recent achievement of securing the heritage city tag and not acting in a manner that befits the status, the HC said that AMC just converted potholes into mounds by filling debris in potholes. The court said what AMC did was to put patches on roads, whereas it was supposed to resurface the roads.
 
 The HC, however, granted one week’s time to AMC to undertake road resurfacing “on a war footing” as promised by the AMC, which wanted to come with a concrete proposal and roadmap to resolve the issue of poor road conditions.
 
 Petitioners’ advocates Amit Panchal and Anand Yagnik insisted on fastening liability on contractors and officials in such cases, as only 18km stretch of road is under defect liability, and the rest 184km of bad roads will be repaired from public funds. Moreover, no quality check has been done for last two years during road construction, they submitted.
 
 Citing quick road repairs on certain routes following PM Narendra Modi and Japanese PM Shinzo Abe’s visit, it was submitted that this is a classic case of discrimination against common people.
 
 Regarding non-compliance of court order and non-fulfillment of AMC’s promise on removal of cattle nuisance, the bench gave a last chance to the municipal commissioner, city police commissioner and ACP S D Patel to “fully and truly” comply with HC order. They were asked to file an affidavit on September 2017 stating whether court directions issued on August 10 for removal of stray cattle are complied with or not.
 
 The judges told the authorities that they could take them within two minutes to the place and show them stray cattle because fodder is being sold on road.
 
 
