KOLKATA: Negotiations between   and   continued on Wednesday but failed to break the deadlock. Even as   remained off air at 5 lakh homes, experts pointed out that blocking satellite feed amounts to   and makes both broadcasters and MSOs liable to legal action. The latter could be sued under the   and subscribers may demand a proportionate refund of fee and compensation for the period during which the channels remained blocked.

 “Taking satellite channels off without informing the subscribers is a serious offense. It makes both broadcasters and their agents — the MSO in this case — liable to be penalized. They can be sued under section 2r of the Consumer Protection Act. Subscribers can claim a proportionate refund of the subscription fee and also claim compensation for the harassement that they face,” said Prabir Basu, an expert on consumer laws.
 
 While channel blackouts have been frequent across MSO platforms in recent years, no legal action has yet been sought in consumer courts. “This is strange and probably points at a lack of awareness. But with consumer protection activism being on the rise, I would expect a case soon,” said Basu.
 
 Manthan, on its part, maintained that it was trying to sort out the issue with Star. “We expect the talks to bear result very soon,” said Sudip Ghosh, director, Manthan. 
 
 Subscribers were, however, not ready to accept the argument and many said they were losing patience. “It’s not enough to say that they are negotiating. It has been 11 days and it’s time the channels were switched on. The MSO is cheating us and I will ask my cable operator for a refund,” said Anirban Ray, a Manthan subscriber. He added that he was contemplating moving the consumer court. Manthan said it negotiated with Star till late on Wednesday evening and was close to striking out a solution. 
 
 Several high-profile sporting events are lined up on the Star Sports channels over the next few weeks. This includes the ongoing India-England ODI series and the English Premier League matches.
 
 
