THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: With many   officials displaying reluctance to take up the responsibility of being the inquiry officer against colleagues or subordinates, the Centre has directed state governments to utilize the services of retired officers for the job. In a communique from the   (DoPT), the states have been asked to set up panels of retired officers, whose services can be utilised when the need for a departmental inquiry arises against a serving official. “We are examining it as the communique has laid out several criteria," said chief secretary  .Though it is unclear if it is binding on the state government to set up and maintain such a panel, the government is likely to accept the proposal.“Retired officers are not bound by the conduct rules or vindictive acts from the affected per sons. Also, many serving officials are reluctant to take up such tasks when colleagues or subordinates are involved,“ he said.

 Some of the serving officers find the proposal absurd and are of the view that the move would not have any benefit other than providing   for some. “It is not advisable to hand over official files to someone who is not bound by the service rules. An inquiry can take place in a proper manner only if it is being done by a serving official who has enough powers to call for the required files,“ an IAS official said on condition of anonymity .
 
 As per the instructions of the DoPT, accessed by TOI, the cadre controlling authority (or the chief secretary) can set up panels of retired officers not below the rank of deputy secretary in the Centre and equivalent officer in the state or a public sector undertaking for conducting departmental probes. The panel will be valid for a period of three years and will be selected by a three-member panel appointed by the government. Once selected, an inquiry officer can have a maximum of eight cases in a year subject to the condition that the number does not cross four at a time. Also, the officers being chosen for the job should not have been penalised in a disciplinary proceeding or have faced a prosecution in a criminal case.
 
