"Men only think through their d*cks”— this is a line that we have either said or heard many times. While that may be true in some instances, men also think from their heart. And here’s more of a revelation; while women may think that it is only they who get played by men, the not-so-fair sex is also at the receiving end of women who may show interest and then want to have nothing to do with them. This is what the new play,  , touches upon (pun not intended).

 Here’s the synopsis: Who would a man choose if his   and heart took human form? This cheeky and quirky play answers the question that is on everyone’s minds. Will Arjun, who is turning 30, listen to   (penis) or   (heart) when it comes to approaching the girl of his dreams? 
 
 The names of characters make you immediately think of two popular film stars, which, the makers say is because of the characters’ uncanny similarity to the actors. So, while Ranveer is hyperactive, Siddharth (also stands for Sid+heart) is mature, sensible and rational.
 
 Speaking about how the concept came about, director and actor  , says, “The idea was actually conceptualized by a woman — Tanya Prakash. Tanya has spent a lot of time in the UK and in the comedy scene there and I thought that her concept was really different from what’s happening in the theatre scene currently. So, we sat together and developed the idea.”
 
  
  
 
 The result of this is that the play is the amalgamation of two very different perspectives — that of a man and a woman. Around 70% of the content is inspired by personal experiences, so during the brainstorming sessions, did Tanya and Abhishek have certain a-ha moments? “Oh yes, there were many. While we were discussing the idea, we wrote down around 15-20 experiences and formulated those into the play. While doing this, Tanya brought up a lot of things about how men treat women. For e.g., a man may take a woman’s number, but never call her. What we realized is that these things happen to men as well; men are also played around by women. At the end of the day, a man or woman go through the same emotions,” says Abhishek. 
 
 Abhishek plays Arjun in the play, and Karan Bathija as Ranveer and Anas Nouman as Siddharth are trying to hook him up with a girl who he’s in love with. While this may seem like a romantic play, it’s about the bromance between a man and a certain body part. But which one will he pick?
 
