KOLKATA/ASANSOL: An interstate gang of nine has been busted that would run a BPO in Asansol and use their employees to con people out of their money after getting hold of their bank account details and ATM PINs. The racket, “headquartered at Jamui in Bihar”, spread its tentacles across Kolkata, Siliguri, Durgapur and Asansol.

 “Members of the gang would lure unemployed youths into their illicit trade by offering them training in BPO work. They would also urge them to open franchises of their BPOs,” said Rajesh Kumar, ADG (CID), adding that the Jamui headquarters ran seven such centres across India. Dhananjay Kumar Mondal, a resident of Gouripur in Deogarh, is suspected to head the Bengal gang that was caught by the state CID, along with the   police. The entire racket was being run by Kamdeb, currently in Ranchi, the CID added.
 
 Explaining the modus operandi, CID officers said the gang would obtain names and phone numbers of bank customers. “The ‘BPO employees’, posing as bank executives and managers, would then call up the customers on their registered mobiles and offer various services, such as raise their daily ATM withdrawal limits or link their accounts with Aadhaar numbers or PAN cards. On this pretext, the fraudsters would make customers part with their confidential bank information, such as the bank account numbers and PINs. Subsequently, they would use those details to siphon off money from the victims’ bank accounts and transfer them to their fake accounts and e-wallets,” an officer said.
 
 The brains behind the racket even offered the ‘BPO employees’ incentives if they could successfully fool the customers, said the officer. “The phone numbers were collected from several sources, including Kolkata-based BPOs handling bank customers’ grievances,” he said, adding most of these youths — 18 to 24 years — were offered huge monetary baits. In certain cases, they were even kept in dark about the real motive of their calls. “The SIM cards they used to call up the victims would be procured by submitting fake ID proofs in Bihar and UP,” said an officer. Each of the gang members had duplicate voters’ ID cards and rented homes, posing as BPO workers or students.
 
 “We have been carrying regular campaigns,” said a Kolkata police cyber cell officer. “The gang members seem to know exactly what profile of people to target.”
 
 Confirming the arrests, Asnaosl-Durgapur commissioner Laxminarayan Meena said, “We have rounded up nine youths— Dhananjoy Kumar, Nirakar Neeraj Kumar, Chotelal Singh, Shib Sakti Kumar, Anand Kumar Roi and Rakesh Rawani from Deoghar, Dheeraj Kumar Chowdhury from Jamui, Kundan Mondal and Dipankar Jaiswara from Andal.” CID has seized 19 mobiles, 47 unused SIM cards, 247 reactivated SIM cards, two laptops and one notebook, containing the details of the transactions.
 
 
