Ghaziabad: A 25-year-old private tutor was given life imprisonment by a   court on Monday, after being convicted of kidnapping and attempting to   his student. The tutor was apparently furious for being ‘slighted’ during tuition hours — like not being provided tea and snacks, and the boy’s parents not talking to him with ‘respect’ — and attacked his student out of spite.

 District judge  , delivering the judgment, also imposed a fine of Rs 10,000 upon Irfan, the tutor, who was later sent to jail.
 
 Irfan had been hired by M R Raza Tyagi, who owns Aryan Charitable Hospital in Tronica City, to impart daily Urdu lessons to his 14-year-old son. The   boy is a student of Salwan Public School and was a student of Class IX then.
 
 Tyagi said his son had been lured away by Irfan while returning home from a science coaching centre on bicycle around 6pm on October 6, 2015, four days after he had hired the tutor. 
 
 “He intercepted my son when he was returning home, and asked my son to accompany him to his uncle’s factory nearby. He told him he wanted to fetch a diary and would come straight for tuitions after that,” Tyagi told TOI on Monday. “I had hired Irfan to teach Urdu every evening to my son,” he added. “Irfan used to teach my son at our home. A day before the incident, Irfan had told me he won’t be coming for tuitions on October 6.”
 
 But once inside the abandoned factory, Irfan allegedly choked the boy with a rope and stuffed his body in a fridge-sized iron box, believing he was dead. 
 
 “When my son regained consciousness around 8.30pm, he opened the box, which had been left unlocked, with some effort. He ran across the road in front of the factory to the house of Satyapal Singh who, incidentally, was known to me. He collapsed in front of Singh’s gate,” said Tyagi.
 
 The boy was taken to a hospital for treatment and he survived. An FIR was registered against Irfan in Tronica City police station under IPC sections 364 (kidnapping for murder) and 307 (attempt to murder). Irfan, a resident of Bihar, who used to live in a rented accommodation in Pooja Colony, was arrested thereafter.
 
 “In his confessional statement, Irfan had said that he had tried to kill the boy in an act of revenge. He claimed to have felt insulted over the fact that the boy’s parents did not provide him with tea and snacks during tuition hours. He also felt that the boy’s parents did not speak to him respectfully,” counsel for the Tyagis, Naushad Chaudhary, told TOI.
 
 The district judge found the accused guilty of both charges of kidnapping and attempt to murder. In the order, a copy of which is with TOI, the judge said that it was only a matter of providence that the minor boy survived the attempt made upon his life. “He is the only son of his parents. If the accused had been successful in his attempt, it would have been a life-long torment for the family of the victim. The accused did not display any mercy in committing the crime. Hence, there is no room for mercy in delivering the sentence,” says the order.
 
