 trounced India 4-1 but not before a valiant show by the doubles team at the BWF Sudirman Cup mixed team event in Gold Coast, Australia, on Monday .

 Though   was the lone Indian to post a victory , the big take away from the tie was the brilliant show of women's doubles team of Ashwini Ponnappa and Sikki Reddy . The duo, ranked 28 in the world, almost caused a major upset when they stretched Christinna Pedersen and Kamilla Rytter Juhl 21-18, 15-21, 21-23. Ranked No.2 in the world the Danish women have several major titles. Playing the last match of a dead rubber, Ashwini and Sikki took the first game 21-18. The Danes hit back and take the second at 21-15 and were on the brink of winning the third. At 20-16 they needed just one point to wrap up the match but the Indian girls notched up five straight points to move to 21-20 before Kamilli and Christinna won three big points and saved themselves from a major em barrassment.
 
 Earlier, Indian campaign got off to a disastrous start as Ashwini and young Satwiksairaj Rankireddy went down fighting against Joachim Fischer Nielsen and Christinna Pedersen 15-21, 21-16, 21-17. In the crucial men's singles tie, India fielded their top ranked shuttler Ajay Jayaram against Viktor Axelsen. The reason why India preferred Ajay to Srikanth was because the former enjoyed a 3-2 career record against Axelsen and had also defeated him at the Malaysia Open last month. But the move backfired as Ajay lost 12-21, 7-21.
 
 Denmark won the rubber when their seasoned men's doubles outfit of Mathias Boe and Carsten Mogensen drubbed Manu Attri and Sumeeth Reddy 21-17, 21-15 in 33 minutes. With the tie already lost 0-3, Sindhu beat Line Kjarsfeldt 21-18, 21-6 to secure a point for India.
 
 India face a must-win situation against Indonesia on Tuesday and hope the latter upset Denmark on Wednesday . India may pick Kidambi Srikanth for men's singles. With top Indonesian coach Mulyo Handoyo guiding their fortunes Indians would be keen to upset an formidable Indonesian team in their last group tie.
 
 Sindhu a popular model in China
 
 China boasts of several superstars. The   powerhouse has produced players like Lin Dan, two-time world and Olympic champion Chen Long and also the popular Wangs who ruled women's badminton for many years. So it was surprising to see Yonex, a top badminton equipment producer, use the image of PV Sindhu instead of the Chinese stars.
 
 
