The first teaser of Jr NTR’s Jai   Kusa may have drawn praise from fans and industry folk, but one person who is clearly not amused is  . The director feels Tarak has fleshed out the character of ‘Jai’ by stealing an idea they had discussed not too long ago. Puri, in fact, is so incensed that he labelled NTR Jr a ‘script chor’ while pouring his heart out on the set of his current project, Paisa Vasool.

 A source close to Puri says, “Jr NTR has a triple role in Jai Lava Kusa. The character of Jai, who is a devotee of   and has a negative streak in him, is seen stammering in the teaser. Interestingly, Puri and   were supposed to do a film together and had discussed a similar character during their meeting last December. This cannot be mere coincidence.”
 
 The source adds that the Puri-Tarak collaboration was supposed to be a big-ticket affair, but it didn’t materialise following certain creative differences. “Jr NTR had liked the script, but wanted a few changes to the background story. Puri didn’t agree with him and said, ‘No problem, we will work some time later’ and moved on,” says the source. 
 
 Recently, when Puri watched the first teaser of Jai Lava Kusa, he was taken aback. “He realised that the Jai’s characterisation is exactly what he had proposed to Jr NTR for their film. This is not the first time that Puri’s idea has been lifted by somebody, but he always kept quiet and moved on. This time, he’s deeply hurt and upset with Jr NTR since together they have delivered a super hit film like Temper, which was a game changer for the actor. He minces no words and feels that NTR is a ‘script chor’,” says the source. 
 
 Now, Puri has no choice but to trash his original script. “Since his main plot has already been stolen, Puri cannot go ahead and make the film. He will have to scrap the story, which was supposed to translate into a Rs100 crore film. That’s what is most upsetting for him,” sums up the source. 
 
 When contacted,  , director of Jai Lava Kusa, rubbished these claims and said it was news to him. “This idea of getting one of the avatars of NTR to stammer was part of my original script. I am not aware of anyone else having discussed any such character with him. The film will speak for itself, I don’t have to clarify. For now, we are very pleased with the response we’ve got for the teaser.”
 
