BAREILLY: A 24-year-old girl, whose   had left her under family pressure, decided to end her life by jumping into the Yamuna Canal 4 km from Saharanpur. At the water’s edge, however, she began having second thoughts and wanted to see if there was an easier way to commit suicide. Like anyone with a question, she turned to  . The search results, including that of suicide helpline numbers, led to her considering other options. She ultimately ended up calling the office of the deputy inspector general of police. The officer heard her out and convinced her to go in for   instead.
 
  Google does not immediately show options when someone types "how to commit suicide". Instead, it throws up a host of sites and numbers to contact, including helplines such as that run by Aasra, a crisis prevention centre.
  
  “On January 3, I got a call from the girl on my public number. She was quite nervous and was about to end her life. She told me she had even searched how to kill herself on Google. Among the search results, she told me, she found my number. I heard her out and told her to come to my office so we could talk about it in detail,” said   Jitendra Kumar Shahi, talking to TOI.
  
  The girl turned up at his office in a while and narrated her story. She had been in a relationship with a boy for several years, but after the boy got a government job recently, he allegedly changed his mind about marrying her under pressure from his family.
  
  “We come across such cases every day. Sometimes girls level harassment or assault charges after a relationship ends. This girl was just deeply traumatized and wanted help. She made no allegations against her boyfriend and in fact spoke warmly of him. I asked the station officer of the women’s police station to counsel the couple and look into the matter,” the DIG added.
  
  The SO of women’s police station, Prabha Singh, told TOI that two rounds of counselling had been done so far. “On the day the girl met the DIG, he sent her to me and I advised her to become stronger and that there was no need to be afraid of anybody. Today, we summoned the boy and also had a counselling session with him, in the presence of the girl and advised the couple about the options they had to live better lives and have a good future.”
  
  The girl was not available for comment in the matter.
