JAMMU/NEW DELHI: Bodies of seven Amarnath pilgrims killed and 19 others injured in a terror attack in Jammu and Kashmir's Anantnag district were airlifted to Surat in a special BSF aircraft on Tuesday.

 Seven Amarnath yatris from Gujarat were killed and 19 others injured when terrorists opened fire on a bus in J&K's Anantnag district, about 50km from Srinagar, on Monday.
 
 The dead included women. Initial reports said the bus was not registered with the Amarnath shrine board and was travelling after permitted hours without adequate security.
 
 PL Mall, superintendent of police of Sabarkantha, said, "The bus with registration number GJ09Z9976 registered in name of Umiya Sai Travels of Idar was sold to Om Travels in Valsad. The bus which had owner Jawahar Desai's son Harsh on board left for Amarnath pilgrimage on July 2. After offering prayers, the bus was returning back when it was attacked. The injured includes Harsh Desai."
 
 Sources said there were general inputs regarding a threat to Amarnath yatris. However, there was no specific input indicating the time and place of a possible attack. "The response to the last few incidents in the valley has been strong and effective. The terrorists are under pressure to show their worth and found an easy target in the Amarnath yatris", said a top intelligence functionary .
 
 The attack, coming on the first day of "shravan" associated with Lord Shiva, who is central to the pilgrimage, added to the sense of outrage over the killings.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 A fresh batch of 3,289 Amarnath pilgrims left Jammu for the   on Tuesday despite a terror attack the previous day on a bus which left seven worshippers dead.
 
 "A fresh batch of 3,289 yatris left Bhagwati Nagar Yatri Niwas in an escorted convoy of 185 vehicles around 3am on Tuesday for the Valley", officials said in Jammu.
 
 The 40-day long yatra started on June 29 and will end on August 7.
 
 So far, nearly 1.40 lakh pilgrims have reached the cave shrine located at 3,888 metres above sea-level.
 
