CHANDIGARH: Following an overwhelming verdict in favour of the Congress in Punjab, political circles in the state are abuzz about who will take over as the next Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) president. Former Congress legislature party (CLP) leader   is being seen considered the front runner for the   chief, besides party veteran and six-time MLA Lal Singh. Things have, however, taken a new turn with Ludhiana ex-MP Manish Tewari's supporters too throwing the hat in the ring.

 Sources in the Congress said speculations were rife that this time the party could pick a Hindu face as its state president, especially in wake of a sizeable chunk of Hindu voters believed to have voted for the party to help it secure 77 of the 117 seats.
 
 It is being widely perceived that chief minister Captain   might reward Jakhar for standing by him when former PPCC chief Partap Singh Bajwa was at the helm of the party affairs in the state. At the same time, Tewari too is known to enjoy a good equation with Amarinder and is likely to make an all-out effort to revive his political career.
 
 Those rooting for Lal Singh point out that his demand for an exemption to the `one-family , one-ticket' rule was rejected and his son got the ticket from Samana and not him (from Sanaur). They say that he might have been promised a place in the party organization by the Congress leadership.
 
 Tewari's name was earlier doing the rounds for an assembly ticket from Ludhiana Central but it is believed that supporters of Ravneet Bittu (Congress MP from Ludhiana) put their foot down to ensure that he didn't regain a foothold in Ludhiana politics.Despite being the sitting MP from Ludhiana, Tewari had sat out the 2014   elections.
 
 Another factor in case of Jakhar, who needs to be rehabilitated after losing the assembly election from his Abohar seat, is his love-hate equa tion with Amarinder. There were reports of him being sore over his case not being pushed for a Rajya Sabha nomination after he was replaced as the CLP leader to bring in Charanjit Singh Channi.
 
 Whether it be the party or the government, Lal Singh had always been the de facto N0. 2 since 1996 when Rajinder Kaur Bhattal was elevated as the CM.
 
 “It will be a tough call for Amarinder to pick between Jakhar and Tewari if the party wants to have a Hindu face to take on the BJP, which may go solo in the next assembly elections. With Amarinder having pulled off the election, the high command would not like to antagonize him and would willingly put a stamp on his choice,“ said a party leader.
 
