Mumbai: Challenging a plea by firms representing   which sought summary removal of the   board for mismanagement, the company has questioned its maintainability before the   ( ), saying the petitioners account for a mere 2.17% of the total share capital, far less than the one-tenth required.

 The petitioners, Cyrus Investments and Sterling Investment Corporation, have said they own over 18% stake in the company and that the Shapoorji Pallonji family have held shares in Tata Sons since 1965. Their plea said Pallonji Shapoorji Mistry was a director in the company between 1980 and 2004 and his son Cyrus was nominated as Tata Sons director by   in 2006 and has been a director since. 
 
 Tata Sons’ reply said the legal tussle was a “ruse’’ by Mistry, its recently ousted chairman, to “publicly air his displeasure at the loss of his office”. Elaborating on the reasons for his removal, Tata Sons said “his leadership was not aligned to the company’s long-term goals’’ and acknowledged that its own high-level Remunerations Committee “did not sufficiently factor his ability to lead Tata Group in the future”. This admission was made in response to Mistry’s claims that his performance was appreciated by the same panel as recently as June 2016. 
 
 The 210-page affidavit attributed his ouster to “several disturbing facts’’, including the “growing trust deficit between the Board and him’’, “slow execution on problems that were identified’’, and “lack of follow-through on business plan.’’ It took him four years to begin “appointing a group finance director, which should have been his first appointments”, said the reply.
 
 It said the decision to remove him was a “carefully considered one’’, it was “not arbitrary or capricious”, but if Mistry is allowed to remain on the Board he “would employ all obstructionist tactics to stall and hinder’’ its working.
 
 It points out that Pallonji Shapoorji Mistry, who represented the petitioning companies, had “voted in favour’’ of a new version of the Tata Sons’ governing Articles of Association in September 2000, including the same four articles that they now want “struck off in their entirety”.
 
 Allowing the petition would “strangle the functioning of Tata Sons virtually bringing the affairs to a standstill”, said the reply. Seeking its dismissal with “exemplary costs’’, Tata Sons said by asking for “such ill-advised and drastic reliefs, in guise of public interest, they are unlawfully wanting to displace the control of majority shareholders and enforce their say”. Tata Sons also challenged the plea on grounds of delay. “The petitioners have either approved the balance sheets or not raised objections contemporaneously...’’ The law of limitation sets a three-year bar but petitioners are alleging that the cause “is a continuing one”. The matter is scheduled to be heard on January 31 in NCLT.
 
 
