Thane: As the battle for the   municipal Corporation ( )   intensifies, several parties have deployed their top leadership from the state to steerthe campaigns and the selections of candidates here.

 While chief minister Devendra Fadnavis is indirectly keeping tabs on the Bhartiya Janata   (BJP) developments in the city, Matoshree is also busy formulating strategies to retain its seats in the TMC house. The polls are also important for the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) that is being piloted by MLA Jitendra Awhad and former minister Ganesh Naik who will jointly decide the strategies here. Former chief minister and present MLC Narayan Rane has been assigned the task of deciding the course for Congress in the city.
 
 Each of the parties have formed a panel of senior local leaders who are finalizing candidates for each area while the same is being observed by a senior leader. The BJP has MLA Sanjay Kelkar and minister Ravindra Chavan along with MP Kapil Patil helming the reins while the final call is believed to be taken by Fadnavis.
 
 “The merits of every aspirant approaching the party for a ticket is being discussed both at the local level and even recommended to the state leaders,” said a worker. It is believed the chief minister is actively working towards roping in a senior leader from the Congress and the Shiv Sena to add muscle to the party ahead of the municipal elections.
 
 The Shiv Sena that has been in the power for the last three panels is also actively monitoring the movements and strategizing fielding of candidates both at the local levels and from Matoshree. “Winning the polls here is important and the process is being closely monitored by party chief Uddhav Thackeray. However, strategies at the local level are being finalized by MLA and minister Eknath Shinde who is assisted by fellow MLAs and senior party leaders from neighboring constituencies,” said an activist.
 
 Thane has been the bastion of the saffron parties with the BJP and Shiv Sena having their formative elected representatives being elected from the district. The same was also discussed at the recent BJP conclave where senior leaders, including state party chief Raosaheb Danave had mentioned the party was aggressively working towards claiming their stake to power.
 
 Meanwhile, the NCP that conducted a review of its strengths and interviewed aspirants from the city on Tuesday has nominated MLA Jitendra Awhad and former assembly colleague Ganesh Naik from Navi Mumbai to supervise the proceedings here. “While Awhad has the total charge of strategizing and allocating seats for Kalwa and Mumbra, the party has deputed a few senior leaders also as wresting the power seat away from the saffron combine has become a prestige issue for the party,” said observers.
 
 Winning the polls here is important and the process is being closely monitored by party chief Uddhav Thackeray. However, strategies at the local level are being finalized by MLA and minister Eknath Shinde who is assisted by fellow MLAs and senior party leaders from neighboring constituencies
 
 While MLA Jitendra Awhad has the total charge of strategizing and allocating seats for Kalwa and Mumbra, the party has deputed a few senior leaders also as wresting the power seat away from the saffron combine has become a prestige issue for the Nationalist Congress Party in Thane
 
 Thane has been the bastion of the saffron parties with the BJP and Shiv Sena having their formative elected representatives being elected from the district. The same was also discussed at the recent BJP conclave where senior leaders, including state party chief Raosaheb Danave had mentioned the party was aggressively working towards claiming their stake to power.
 
