PUNE:  's measured 63-ball 102, followed by a thunderous nine-ball 38 by Chris Morris helped   set a huge target of 206 which proved too much for hosts   at the MCA Stadium in Gahunje on Tuesday. Pune's innings never got going and they were all out for 108 in the 17th over to lose by a whopping 97 runs, giving Daredevils their first win of the season.

 Delhi amassed 2054 with 76 runs coming in the last four overs. Pune lost wickets at regular intervals and never threatened Daredevils. Delhi captain Zaheer Khan was his wily self, bowling a perfect length to restrict the Pune batsmen and returning with figures of 3-0-20-3. He prised out Pune openers   and Mayank Agarwal to derail the chase quite early.
 
 Left-arm spinner Shahbaz Nadeem was bowled economically, giving away only 23 in his four overs to make things more difficult for the Supergiant. Veteran leggie Amit Mishra took advantage of a slumping Supergiant by claiming three wickets late in the innings and returned with impressive figures of 3-0-11-3.
 
 Earlier, Rahane, who came in for the toss as regular skipper Steve Smith was out due to a tummy upset, won the toss and elected to bowl first.
 
 Samson, who has often been accused of not living up to his tremendous potential, finally played a knock which showcased his prowess.
 
 Samson came in to bat early as opener Aditya Tare (0) couldn't last the first over by medium-pacer Deepak Chahar. Samson, 22, rotated the strike well with Sam Billings (24) and put up 69 with the English batsman.
 
 After Billings was done in by legspinner Imran Tahir, Samson built e another partnership with Rishabh Pant, worth 53. While Samson waited for the loose balls, he relied on his partners for the big hits. Pant's 31 off 22 balls (1x4, 2x6) eased pressure on the Kerala boy.
 
 Samson, however, upped the ante towards the end. Once he started, it was difficult for the Pune bowlers to stop him.
 
 Later, Chris Morris took fast scoring to another level by hitting four fours and three sixes for his nine-ball 38. His strike rate was 422! It was a perfect finish to Delhi's innings.
 
 Other than Tahir (4-024-1), none of the Pune bowlers could keep their economy rate below 10. 
 
