MUMBAI|KOLKATA: The conflict between   and   Infocomm heated up as the country’s no. 1 telco accused its rival of violating the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India ( ) order to stop the Summer Surprise offer and urged the watchdog to take “suitable action.”
 
  Newcomer   in turn pointed to its April 6 statement that said the telco would comply with the regulator’s directive and is in the process of withdrawing the Summer Surprise offer as soon as it is “operationally feasible.”
  
  Bharti   said the new entrant should have stopped the offer immediately. “We are surprised that Reliance Jio is openly continuing with its Summer Special offer despite the same being declared ab initio void by the Trai,” a Bharti Airtel spokesperson told ET in an email on Sunday. “In addition, Reliance Jio is running an aggressive campaign via   and on ground as well as digital flyers encouraging customers and channel partners to subscribe and recharge under the scheme.”
 
  The company, which kicked off commercial services in September, was in breach of the regulator’s instruction, Bharti said. “This is a flagrant violation of Trai’s unambiguous directive and it is clear the extension is invalid for all customers who have recharged after the regulatory order came into effect,” Bharti said. “We are sure the honorable regulator will take suitable action against this violation.”
  
  Jio, while agreeing to comply with the order, has maintained that it’s broken no laws. “All the customers who have subscribed to Jio Summer Surprise offer prior to its discontinuation will remain eligible for the offer,” Jio reiterated on Sunday.
  
  “There is no reason, even technical, why Jio’s Summer Surprise could not have been stopped immediately, post the Trai order,” said a top executive at one of India’s largest telcos.
  
  Several retailers in Mumbai and Delhi told ET that Sunday may be the last day for availing of the offer but were unsure if it wouldn’t be available Monday. At stake are significant numbers of people Jio wants to add to its 72 million user base. Incumbents meanwhile want Jio to start charging for services as soon as possible to allow them to draw up pricing strategies to protect their user base.
  
  Jio’s rivals haven’t decided on making an official complaint to Trai, which said Summer Surprise offer did not fit into “regulatory framework.” It had also said Jio’s explanations hadn’t been satisfactory.
  
    and   didn’t respond to emailed queries. Trai had said on April 7 that Jio will stop the offer but since it’s a “large network, it takes some time. We are saying to stop it in a shortest possible time and it can be few hours, a day or a day and half but it can’t be April 15.”
  
  Rajan Mathews, director general of the Cellular Operations Association of India (COAI), declined to comment specifically on the issue.
  
  “If there are loopholes (in Trai’s order), then it is for Trai, as a vigilant regulator, to be aware of these and identify them and close the loopholes immediately,” said Mathews. “Those who become aware of these loopholes, should in turn, inform the regulatory authority, with the hope that it will then act to close these loopholes.”
  
  Even if the offer is withdrawn a few days before April 15, Jio may still emerge the winner, analysts said. Assuming that Jio takes three-four days to alert its distributors, channels, partners and the public on the stoppage, that would still give it 10 days out of the 15 that were planned for the offer.
  
  Early closure will probably lead to a rush of people wanting to sign up before the end.
  
  Jio’s two successive free offers that ended March 31have damaged incumbents, which have been forced to cut voice and data rates sharply while needing to invest in capital expenditure, hurting revenue and profitability. Industry debt has ballooned to nearly Rs 4.90 lakh crore. The financial stress, the government has said, has eroded revenue from licence fees and spectrum usage charges.
  
  The legality of Jio’s offers and Trai’s decision to clear them are being challenged in the high court and the telecom tribunal, which has asked the regulator to revisit its decision. Jio has maintained all its plans are in line with the rules. 
