NEW DELHI: US President Donald Trump’s tough talk on trade and economic policies has emerged as a fresh risk for the Indian economy, which is recovering from the impact of demonetisation. 

 While it is too early to assess the impact of any possible policy changes in the US, several sectors of the Indian economy as well as exports may be hurt if Trump implements the changes he has talked about. Experts and policy-makers are adopting a ‘wait- and-watch’ stance. 
 
 “Trump has made it very clear that protecting American interests is his main priority. His focus is on getting jobs and manufacturing back to the US. This could have an impact on H-1B visas for India. We have to wait and watch as to the stance the Trump administration takes on the intellectual property issue,” said  , professor at JNU. 
 
 “The second issue is the trade surplus that India enjoys vis-a-vis the US. Past administrations have been pressing India to lower the bilateral trade imbalance. The stand taken by the new administration on this issue is something that we would have to wait and watch. An indifferently performing global market has already left its adverse impact on India’s exports over the past two years. If Trump implements his much publicised inward-looking policies, Indian businesses would need to seriously re-think their strategies,” Dhar said. 
 
 Two-way trade with the US has shot up more than fivefold, from about $19 billion in 2000 to over $100 billion in 2014, and the US is currently India’s second largest trade partner and the largest export destination, according to industry estimates. Both sides have vowed to increase their bilateral trade turnover to $500 billion in the years ahead. Experts said the government and the RBI needed to push reforms and policies to ensure that any sudden impact from the kind of policies Trump has vowed may be absorbed. “Employment is going to be a major policy issue. Similar protectionist policies are being pushed in the European region. It would have a significant impact on India’s services sector. We need to have policies that would result in transformative growth and absorb any drop in employment due to global protectionist policies,” said N R Bhanumurthy, professor at National Institute of Public   and Policy. 
 
 “IT and IT-enabled services may feel an immediate impact... Both trade and foreign capital flows are expected to see some dent if he implements the policies that he has talked about. The RBI needs to be more cautious in dealing with the external sector policies, especially the exchange rate and capital flow policies,” he added.   said any reversal of economic and free trade policies was likely to hurt global growth, and pointed to the investment in the US by Indian companies. Any upheaval in the global economy against a backdrop of slowing growth could hurt India’s economic expansion — the Indian economy is estimated to grow by 7.1% in 2016-17. “While we welcome the ‘America First’ strategy of President Trump, we hope that it will not lead to a new era of protectionism. The US has always been a champion of free trade and economic integration. A reversal of this stance would indeed be seriously detrimental to global growth,”  , director-general at the   (CII), said. 
 
 He said Indian companies had invested in around 40 US states, operating in sectors such as IT and healthcare, among others.“Nearly 100 Indian companies have invested $15 billion in the US economy and generated around 1 lakh jobs. These companies are creating and saving jobs, engaging in research and development as well as in corporate social responsibility initiatives —the tangible benefits of such FDI therefore flow directly to the local communities in which they operate,” he said.
 
