DEHRADUN: A 34-year-old man from Premnagar, who duped several people to the tune of Rs 50 lakh, staged his own abduction with the help of his family members and remained underground in Mumbai for seven months.   was caught by police from the metropolitan where he was working as a waiter at a hotel, months after his family claimed that he had been abducted by his friends.
 
  Panthari had gone missing on July 17, 2016, from his house in Premnagar. His family had registered a complaint with   station, alleging that three of Panthari’s friends - Nitesh, Bablu and Baba - had abducted him.
  
  “A team was formed to search for Panthari as his family alleged that he had been abducted. Three of his friends were interrogated but they did not appear to have any role in the matter. During investigation, we suspected that Panthari had disappeared voluntarily and this was communicated to his family as well,” said superintendent of police (City) Ajay Singh.
  
  Police later found that Panthari had taken Rs 50 lakh from several people, promising to invest their money and getting them good returns.
  
  “It emerged that after he failed to return the money and was unable to face mounting pressure of creditors, Panthari left Dehradun,” said the SP (City).
  
  Acting on a tip-off that Panthari was living in Mumbai, a joint police team of special operation group (SOG) and Premnagar police was sent to nab him. “The police team found Panthari from Jogeshwari area of western Mumbai and brought him back to Dehradun on Monday,” said a police officer.
  
  The three friends of Panthari have also filed a complaint against him and four of his family members alleging criminal conspiracy and trying to falsely implicate them in the matter.
  
  Panthari, his father Ram Krishna Panthari, brothers Ramesh and Naresh Panthari, and his uncle Ganesh Panthari have been booked under section 120B (criminal conspiracy), 506 (criminal intimidation), 504 (breach of peace), 406 (breach of trust) and 388 ( extortion by threat of accusation of an offence punishable with death or imprisonment for life) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).
  
  Panthari, his father and uncle have been arrested and presented before the magistrate on Tuesday while Ramesh and Naresh Panthari are still at large.
