THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: State government has ordered a vigilance inquiry to probe the   episode. Home and vigilance secretary   ordered the probe on the basis of the recommendation given by education minister  . 

 General education secretary   - who probed the allegations of SSLC maths question paper leak - had recommended a probe by an independent agency to reveal the unholy nexus between private agencies and teachers who prepared the questions.
 
 During her investigation, Titus had found links between a Malappuram-based educational agency   and the higher secondary teacher whose maths paper was used for the exam on March 20. Later, the government had cancelled the examination and the re-examination was held on Friday. The teacher, who prepared the controversial question paper was suspended from service.
 
 There were widespread allegations that the maths question paper was tough and the 13 questions in it had already appeared in the model question paper prepared by the Malappuram-based institute. The institute specializes in the preparation of model question papers for SSLC and higher secondary classes in all subjects. There were also allegations that many questions that were asked this year were 'out of syllabus'.
 
 The vigilance would also probe allegations whether SCERT, which is supposed to choose competent teachers for preparing question papers, failed to fulfil its duties.
 
 The education department has decided not to engage any private agencies or individual schools for the preparation of model question papers for Plus One classes. At present, the department prepares and distributes model and final question papers for Classes I-X and Plus Two. However, it is the responsibility of respective school principals to prepare question papers for terminal and model examinations for the Plus One course. But, they invariably pass on the task to teachers' organizations.
 
 "Next year onwards, all question papers used in schools and higher secondary classes would be prepared and distributed by the government," said the office of the education minister.
 
 
