THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The probe report by additional chief secretary (finance)   into the purchase of a cutter suction dredger cites the role of a middleman in the whole tender process that went in favour of IHC Beaver (a foreign company) against   (BEML), a PSU. 

 The 239-page report says that the there is no document for justifying the role of P Venugopal of ALAR Infrastructure Pvt Ltd, who had been part of whole process since the pre-bid discussions. "That Venugopal has been an intermediary in all financial transactions and several meetings with the director of ports and his officers, is evident from the records. There is nothing in the file to indicate that IHC had formally authorized ALAR Infrastructure to formally represent it at the meetings with the director of ports," the report said. Though TOI tried to contact Venugopal, he was not reachable.
 
 Further, the report found that the   had the active support of chief mechanical engineer K Shaji in his fraudulent actions, which is evident from the facts. It further said that the deputy director of ports and finance officer of the directorate of ports advised Thomas to award the contract to BEML as they had offered the lowest bid.
 
 The report cited 28 grave accusations against Thomas in the whole process, beginning from the attempt to modify the specifications of the dredger to suit the specifications of IHC Beaver, despite knowing that the specifications for which administrative sanction was given by the government was adequate to meet the department's requirements.
 
 Abraham says that Thomas also shared the technical specification with IHC two months prior to floating the tender and deliberately ignored the complaint by BEML that they were not given any service or assistance for uploading their bid, thereby effectively preventing them from participating in the bid and thereby IHC ending up as the only bidder satisfying all the specifications.
 
 Though it was re-tendered, IHC then bagged the contract by quoting less than BEML that included not only the price of the dredger, but also the cost of   (AMC). The contract was awarded to IHC Beaver that quoted an amount of Rs 19.86 crore against a quotation of Rs 16.47 crore by BEML without AMC component. Then the director added the component of maintenance cost quoted by both firms and concluded that IHC Beaver quoted the lowest amount. While BEML quoted Rs. 6.20 cr as AMC, IHC Beaver only quoted Rs. 6.41 lakh.
 
