Breaking gender stereotypes in a society like ours that more often than not represses and suppresses   is no mean feat. And these women from different walks of life have successfully done that and more. It has not been easy for most of them, but today, they all stand tall, proud in their achievements. Presenting our pick of some of the strongest and most confident women from the South film industry, who represent womanhood in all its glory

 
 
 Growing up in a society that mandates that women shouldn’t (not even can’t) do certain things, filmmaker Priya Belliappa has her parents to thank for letting her chose a different path. “Ten years ago, when I set out to become a filmmaker, the perception was that the only thing a woman could do in films was act. In fact, when I returned from Mumbai to Bengaluru, it was tough to find a break, and when I did, the only other woman on set was an assistant choreographer,” she says. Priya, who then went on to make a film with an all-women crew, faced challenges there as well, given that many departments, especially makeup, were strictly for men only. In her personal life as well, Priya has not followed societal norms, choosing to let her younger sister marry ahead of her, as she was still trying to make a mark in her career, and delaying having a baby till such time that she could devote quality time to her offspring. The bigger challenge, though, she found was feeding her newborn in public places. “In the first six months of a child’s life, it is completely dependent on the mother’s milk, and unlike adults, who can just pop into a restaurant when hunger strikes, they can’t. So, I decided that I will feed my child whenever she is hungry, irrespective of where I am,” says Priya. 
 
  
  
 
 
 As an ad-and-film maker, and a mother, Kavitha Lankesh has great respect for the society she lives in, but when it comes to following set standards, she chooses what is best for her and her daughter. Having unsuccessfully tried her hand at marriage, Kavitha was keen to have a child, though, and did so without marrying the man who gave her Esha. “Esha is 12 now and if I am told that she is climbing on a roof, I will not stop her. I want her to be a free-spirited child. Yet, at the same time, if she were to wear a dress that is too short, I may tell her that it is OK to wear it when we are on holiday, but not when we are in Bengaluru, considering how people tend to look at you here. I want my daughter to respect society, yet live the way she chooses to, without forcing norms on her. In fact, I am a great advocate of having boys learn stuff that is quintessentially thought to be women’s chores, like, for instance, cooking. Let them learn to do more than just rustle up instant noodles,” she says. 
 
  
  
 
 
 A thinking actress will always get her due, even if it’s in a male-dominated film industry like Tollywood or Mollywood. Nithya Menen is one of those rare brand of actresses who doesn’t mince words and speaks her mind, even if it ruffles a few feathers or shakes up an entire tree. Some of the actress’ words, in fact, had Mollywood producers wanting to impose a ban on her, while fans in Tollywood didn’t take dear to the fact that she didn’t recognize one of their superstars. But all said and done, Nithya could win any battle, being the powerhouse of talent that she is. She proved it with Usthad Hotel and Bangalore Days in Mollywood. In Telugu, she stuck to her guns and rose up the ranks playing independent women-of-substance characters. And, now, top actors want her to be in their films, while the directors approach her with stories that revolve around her, and she takes the final call. “Everyone assumes that if an actress is not doing a film with a top hero, she is not even getting those offers. They don’t realize that we can also choose — we can say no,” Nithya says. “People think it’s the actress who always gets an ‘opportunity’ and she’s the one doing the air coach. With me, I always choose to work with somebody or not, to do a certain film or not. I have always had the courage to say no to something that, according to my standards, is not what I feel I should be doing. I have faced opposition, but other people’s standards have always been different from mine.”
 
  
  
 
 
 The Malayalam has not had a lady director as successful as Anjali Menon in its long history. From the nostalgic ride Manjadikkuru to the toast of the youth Bangalore Days, the filmmaker’s graph has been on the rise. So much so that fans now wait with bated breath for her upcoming projects. It’s no wonder then that the best talent in Malayalam cinema, as well as stars in the Tamil industry, such as Suriya and Jyothika, are lining up to work with her. Anjali, though, makes it clear that the “directors should be known by the work and not their gender”. On how challenging it has been to find her own voice in the film industry, she says, “It’s tough, but cribbing about it doesn’t change anything. Working better does. Teaming up with work partners who are not sexist also makes a huge difference. I have found, as a director, that film crew members are quick to note if one is dedicated and hardworking towards a vision. They do start to see the professional in you over your gender. However, the pressure is constant and intense — for any slip you and your gender will be blamed. The more chauvinists around, the crazier the ride. So, one is constantly swimming against the tide. On the flip side, technically, it should make you a better swimmer.” Another aspect of Anjali’s movies is the strong women characters. “A smart person said, ‘I rarely meet men in real life as extraordinary as the ones in films, and rarely see women in films as extraordinary as the ones I know in real life’. It goes to show how imbalanced the portrayals of both genders are onscreen. When I work with a character, my attempt is to consider the energy and driving force of the character — gender is a part of that construct. If you see strong resilient women in my films, it’s probably because my world has many of them.”
 
  
  
 
 
 Sai Pallavi is not the quintessential heroine that the South cinema audience is used to. In fact, she broke every concept of a female protagonist as the pimple-faced Malar in her debut film Premam. In tinsel town, where actresses would rather be covered in layers of makeup and insist on photoshop to accentuate their beauty, she stands out for preferring to be herself in front of the camera — be it for a movie or photoshoot. She has no qualms turning down roles in films if it doesn’t fit her idea of beauty — a rare quality in actresses who are just finding their feet in the movie industry. Her simple charm isn’t lost on her admirers, as her fan base across the South has only been on the upswing, despite being just two films old. For Sai, the allure has always been about having self-esteem. “I think that desirability is all about how you carry yourself, and how much self-respect and confidence you have. Regardless of what you are, it is how much you love yourself that makes you desirable,” she says. The actress also brushes away the compliments she gets for being a champion of natural beauty. “If anyone considers themselves more confident because of my films, I would think myself blessed,” says Sai.
 
  
  
 
 
 Shweta Menon’s been raising the bar for being bold ever since she burst onto screen as a model for a condom ad. With a filmography that includes Hindi, Tamil and Malayalam movies, her pivotal acting stint came in her 30s, when most top actresses would consider quitting their career to start a family. Shweta’s roles during the time fetched her two Kerala State awards, and soon, filmmakers started scripting roles with only her in mind. She took being daring onscreen to another level by delivering her baby on camera for Blessy’s Kalimannu. At 42, Shweta is still the siren she used to be and says that she owes it to her family. “When you have a strong support system, you have the freedom to express yourself in whatever capacity you can. My dad made me comfortable with my thoughts, body and expressions. He told me that I was just doing a job. The extent to which I can go for my job is what makes me stand out. I have always believed that I have chutzpah that a lot of girls wish they had, and I am proud of that,” says Shweta. On choosing bold roles, she explains, “None of my films had me stripping my clothes off. Sexuality and sensuality exists in every women, along with innocence, and I have represented only those through my characters.” Ask her about age limiting an actress’ career, and Shweta readily dismisses it, saying, “For me, age is just a number. I think that the child in me is ever dominant, but that doesn’t make me less of a woman.”
 
  
  
 
 
 For Vaikom Vijayalakshmi, the lack of eyesight has never been an issue when it came to pursuing her career in singing. She says her musical training began when she was just one-and-a-half years old and was presented her first concert by the time she was six, after getting guru diksha from singer KJ Yesudas. “No one discouraged me at the time,” says the singer, who recently called off her wedding after her fiancé wanted her to give up her musical career. “I knew that the relationship will not work, so I decided to walk out of it. I think rather than being someone who lays down conditions on women and tell them how to lead their lives, men should be a pillar of support to them,” she remarks.
 
  
  
 
 
 Actress Abhinaya has fought all odds. Born with a speech and hearing impairment, Abhinaya has had a tough life. But her parents believe that the Naadodigal actress has been lucky. Her mother, Hemalatha says, “Her father, Gyananand, used to take her for movie shoots. She would stand in front of the camera and act. We realized that she wanted to be an actress, but couldn’t understand if that was possible. So, her father took a picture of hers and started giving it to directors and producers. I remember people laughing at us. They would say, ‘How can you humiliate your own daughter? How can you believe she can act?’ Today, the same people tell us what a good actor Abhinaya is.” She adds, “We have always insisted that she be independent. Whenever she used to go for shoots, everyone would be inquisitive about how she acts and understands what everyone is saying.” Hemalatha hopes that her daughter will settle down one day. “As parents, we want her to settle down soon. But we won’t force anything on her. She says that no normal person will be able to understand her problem and that only someone with the same disability will be able to understand her,” she says.
 
  
  
 
 
 Gita Gurappa is the only female sound technician in the South film industry. “I was picked a Diploma in Telecommunications (Electronics), but decided to pursue Diploma in Telecommunications (Sound and TV). The principal asked me thrice if I was sure of the course,” she laughs, and says that although there were 7-8 women in her batch, all of them went on to work in electronics industries. Gita managed to get hired as a trainee at actor Shankar Nag’s studio in Bengaluru, where her gender raised a question mark — ‘Will you be able to cope up with the indeterminate timings?’ “It was relatively easy during the training period, still, every time I asked for a holiday, I was told, ‘This is why we don’t take girls’,” she recalls. Gita has worked on over 350 films and is the first in the country to mix sound in Dolby Atmos. She is baffled at why women aren’t taking up sound mixing for films, even though there are many female sound technicians in the recording industry and broadcasting. “We might talk about women power and equality, but ultimately, it boils down to the individual,” she concludes. 
 
  
  
 
 
 Kani Kusurthi has made a habit out of breaking barriers — right from christening her last name at 15 to being unapologetically sexy in a conservative society. She continuously pushes the norms and sets her own standards by blogging about oft-considered taboo topics, such as sex and promiscuity. Her risqué photo shoots and a short film on the sexual awakening of a young girl sent shockwaves across Kerala, with many condemning her. But Kani has always challenged popular opinion; she believes in a society that encourages communication and even quotes Voltaire as she points that people can disagree with her, but she will always defend their right to speak out. “People should be free to communicate about anything in the society and shouldn’t be targeted if their opinion is against the vox populi,” she says. Kani is not bothered about how this will affect her image. “You cannot please everybody all the time. It’s your life and you are free to do what you want with it, responsibly,” she says, adding, “When somebody tries to impose restrictions, it’s important for women to take a stand and say, ‘you cannot treat me like this’, else you will lose self-respect.”
 
