HYDERABAD: Though it has only 17 days in the new year, 14 people have already fallen prey to ‘voice phishing’ fraud and lost Rs 20 lakh. These cases, in which fraudsters pose as bank employees and siphon off money from victims’ accounts, constitute forty per cent of the cybercrime cases registered this year.

 The modus operandi of the fraudsters is simple. They search on the internet for grievances of bank customers. “In most of the cases, while writing to bank officials, the customers mention their mobile phone number, explain about the problems they are facing and, sometimes, even mention the account or debit card details. The offenders take down the mobile numbers and call the victims posing as bank officials,” Cyberabad cybercrime ACP S Jayaram told TOI. Out of the 14 cases, Cyberabad police registered five cases, Hyderabad cybercrime police registered three cases and Rachakonda cybercrime police registered six cases. Hyderabad cybercrime police registered cases of vishing fraud in which all the victims were petty traders. While 40-year-old K Ramesh, who sells venetian blinds at Kacheguda, lost Rs 1.63 lakh, 34-year-old meat shop owner   of Erragadda lost Rs 1.27 lakh. A flower trader from Mangalhat, Ch Rajesh, 29, lost Rs 98,600.
 
 Posing as SBH officials, the fraudsters asked Ramesh if he had any problems with his account. Ramesh told the fraudster that he was not getting SMS alerts and the fraudster collected Ramesh’s debit card details including CVV and PIN numbers. 
 
 The fraudsters told Ahmed that they are verifying his   account details and the worker gave away his bank account as well as debit card details. “After providing all the details, I got multiple messages on the phone about cash transfers and realized that I was duped,” Ahmed said. “We have noticed that all the offenders are operating from Deogarh and Jamtara districts of Jharkhand,” Rachakonda cybercrime inspector Md Riyazuddin said. Rachakonda police recently arrested a vishing call fraudster from Jharkhand and teams of Hyderabad and Rachakonda police have been camping on Jharkhand-West Bengal border to nab the offenders.
 
 
