CHENNAI: All the eight central prisons in   must have test   centres within six months.

 Madras   (HC) issued a direction to this effect. The HC also laid down procedures to handle crucial documents such as dying declaration, test identification reports and confession statements.
 
 A bench of Chief Justice Indira Banerjee and Justice P N Prakash, said the special ID parade centres must have ‘one-side view’ glass partition separating those lined up for the parade and the witness and magistrate.
 
 “The witness and the magistrate should not be visible to those who are lined up, but the suspect and the dummies should be visible clearly to the witness and the magistrate. The enclosure, in which the suspect and the dummies are lined up, shall be well illuminated and should also have an ante room for them to change their attire.”
 
 Once an investigation officer makes an application for ID parade, concerned courts must conduct it and furnish a copy of the parade report to the investigation officer, the bench said, adding that there should be a specific direction to police that they use it only for the purpose of investigation and not to make its contents public, until the investigation is completed and final report filed.
 
 Similarly, after recording the dying declaration, the magistrate shall arrange to take two photocopies under his direct supervision and certify them as true copies. One certified photocopy of the dying declaration shall be given to the investigating officer free of cost, immediately, said the bench.
 
 As for confession statements, the judges said: “The investigating officer shall make an application before the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate (CMM) or Chief Judicial Magistrate (CJM) for nominating a magistrate, other than the jurisdictional magistrate, to record the confession statement of an accused. After recording the confession statement of an accused, one certified copy of the confession statement shall be immediately furnished to the officer free of cost.
 
 The bench passed these orders after Justice Prakash came across a bail plea of a hearing and speech impaired person, accused of sexually exploiting at least four other hearing and speech impaired people. The accused was arrested on May 9, 2017 in Coimbatore.
 
 
