AHMEDABAD: The   the 2002   on Saturday rejected an application filed by the accused persons’ advocate, demanding to question two Hindu public prosecutors to find out whether there was a sentiment of anger among Hindus after the Godhra train burning incident.

 Special judge P B Desai termed the demand “ridiculous” when the defence counsel requested the court that every member of the Hindu community needed to be examined to find out if there was an anger among Hindus.
 
 The special court opined that the defence advocate’s demand was “yet another attempt by the accused to prolong proceedings and the reliefs sought for in the present application are tantamount to nothing but a gross abuse of process of law, and the same is required to be greatly deprecated”.
 
 While rejecting the application, the court said it is ridiculous to demand the examination of all members of the Hindu community in the interest of the Hindus of Gujarat.
 
 The special judge said, “I do not know how such a vague relief seeking to examine an entire community came to be sought, and further in case of examination of two special public prosecutors came to be sought by the defence on mere presumption.”
 
 This application was filed after the prosecution asked a defence witness, Bipin Thakkar, during his cross-examination, whether he knew there were feelings of anger among the Hindus of Gujarat after the Godhra carnage.
 
 Meanwhile, defence witness Kishan Christian, who was called as a secret witness was cross-questioned by the prosecution on Saturday. He had earlier told the court that he did not see Bajrang Dal leader Babu  , VHP leader Jaideep Patel and then BJP councillor Vallabhbhai Patel in the mob that rioting at Naroda Gam on February 28, 2002. He told the court on Saturday that from the distance of his house to the spot of rioting, it was very difficult to spot people.
 
 Eleven persons were killed in the   during the riots in the state in 2002 and 84 persons are being tried for the killings.
 
