NAGPUR: A decade ago, Tilak Yadav wanted his youngest son -   - to get a government job. Umesh had prepared for an examination for post of constable in police department.

 Unfortunately, he couldn’t clear the exam missing the cut by a whisker. A decade later, Umesh - who is one of the leading fast bowlers in the world cricket - got a much better government job.
 
 He has been appointed as an assistant manager in Reserve Bank of India (RBI), Nagpur office. The 29-year-old completed the joining formalities on Monday, just a day before he would be leaving to join his teammates for the forthcoming Sri Lankan tour.
 
 “The talks were on before the Champions Trophy. He had met RBI officials before leaving for England in May. The officials gave a go ahead to his appointment in sports quota but due to national duties he couldn’t complete formalities,” a source close to the development told TOI.
 
 When Umesh was called up for Vidarbha camp in 2008, the then skipper Preetam Gandhe straight away took him to Air India where he got his first contract. However, despite performing well, Air India didn’t give him a permanent job.
 
 “He should have got a permanent job straight away but things didn’t work out. He always wanted to represent reputed organization. That was the reason he didn’t make any hurry. Now, he has got what he deserved.
 
 “He couldn’t have asked for a better organization than RBI. Though he is financially secured - as most of the current generation cricketers are, thanks to IPL - it’s always good to have a permanent job,” a source added.
 
 The  , as he is known, showed exemplary fitness, genuine pace, great control and most important of all immense maturity in the 2016-17 season. He played 12 successive Tests when other pacers suffered various injuries. He swung the new ball and reverse swung the semi-old one even better.
 
 Despite bowling close to 400 overs last season, there was hardly any drop in his pace. There was no sign of fatigue at any stage. He regularly touched 140km-mark even in the last innings of the season. Now, he would look to continue the same performance when Team India begin new season with Sri Lankan tour later this month. 
 
