BENGALURU: Amazon has promoted India head   as global senior vice president, which puts him among the $107-billion company's second tier of executive leaders.

 Agarwal, who was vice president till now, will continue to remain in India and head the India operations, which the company sees emerging as its second biggest market in a few years, after its home market, the US.
 
 Agarwal, who was earlier an executive assistant and technical advisor to Amazon founder  , has been climbing quickly up the executive hierarchy at Amazon, an acknowledgement of the success the company has had in the Indian e-commerce market. Amazon confirmed the development, adding that Agarwal, despite his larger global role, will continue to head the India operations of the retailer.
 
 In an internal mail to employees, Bezos congratulated Agarwal. “Please join me in giving congra tulations to Amit. These promotions are well earned and we thank them. And our customers and employees are lucky to have them,“ the short email said.
 
 Having joined the company in 1999, in the software development team, the IIT-Kanpur graduate was VP, international expansion before heading back to India, his second stint in the country.
 
 Last year, Agarwal was inducted into Bezos's S-team, a set of senior (the S stands for senior) leaders who have a direct line to Bezos and play a crucial role in important decisions that the e-commerce behemoth makes. Agarwal was paid a little more than Rs 3 crore as salary for the 2016 fiscal year, according to documents filed with the registrar of companies (ROC).
 
 A senior vice president (SVP) is the third highest rank in Amazon, after the chief executive officer (CEO) and president. Amazon founder Jeff Bezos serves as chairman, president and CEO.
 
 So Agarwal now is among the company's second tier executive leadership team. The company's business development head and the chief financial officer (CFO) also hold the SVP rank.
 
 It is not clear how many senior vice presidents Amazon currently has.
 
 The company website has names of four SVPs in the leadership team. A disclosure made to the markets in 2010 lists 10 SVPs in the company. The highest paid executive in Amazon is also an SVP - Diego Piacentini, Agarwal's former boss.
 
 Now Agarwal reports directly to Jeff Bezos.
 
 Amazon, however, has been narrowing the gap with its Indian rival   and has made more than $3 billion in investments in the country.
 
 It has another $2 billion in its warchest.
 
 TOI on Thursday reported that Flipkart may have closed another $1 billion funding to fight Amazon.
 
