NASHIK: Two-wheeler riders   got a glimpse of their future free of cost along the   on Thursday, courtesy the  .

 Hundreds of bikers -- young, old, men and women alike -- made a beeline to know their fate by picking cards. Every card showed the same fate for everyone and stated: They were choosing death over life by not wearing helmets that have been made compulsory for their own safety. 
 
 After an   where riders without the headgear were stopped and asked to write an essay on the importance of helmets, “fortune-telling” was the next novel idea out of the police department to make sure people do not underestimate the importance of helmet. 
 
 Traffic police came out in large numbers near the ABB Circle on Trimbak Road stopping every two wheeler rider who was spotted not wearing helmet. A fortune teller was also made available at the said circle, who asked the motorists to pick one of the cards which read the disadvantages of not wearing a helmet. 
 
 Ramesh Kale, senior police inspector said, “On a daily basis, two-wheeler riders are not wearing helmets despite knowing how important it is for saving lives. The fortune telling camp was yet another attempt to put across the importance of helmet among bikers, but in a lighter way.”
 
  Bikers were asked to jot down their opinion about the drive and most motorists said that they understood the importance of wearing helmet and would soon start using them. Meanwhile, there were also some people, who told the police the health problems due to which they could not wear helmet. But the police in turn only asked them to stop riding two-wheelers in such cases. 
 
 ACP Jayant Bajbale was also present at the drive, said that senior police officials appealed to pedestrians to use the subway at the Dwarka junction rather than risking their lives by crossing the busy road. 
 
 At the same time, officials of the   (NHAI) were also instructed to take up work like improving the illumination in the subway so that more and more people would be encouraged to use the subway. 
 
