GURUGRAM: Homebuyers across the state are unhappy with the dilution of the   (Regulation and Development) Act (Rera), 2016, in the draft Haryana Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Rules, 2017, published by the state government on April 28. Having earlier submitted over 300 objections to it, on Sunday, homebuyers of around 20 unfinished projects gathered at   to perform a ‘havan’, to “seek divine help for a strong Rera in Haryana”. 

 “The government is favouring developers while implementing Rera in the state. We’re left with no option but to seek divine intervention,” said Harinder Pal Singh, whose flat in   Elvedor, Sector 37C, is delayed. He added they are hoping the state government will reform and work for common people.
 
 Many homebuyers, who have been protesting delays in delivery for months, were left disappointed by the state government’s draft, which has let-off most on-going housing projects from the ambit of its regulatory authority. The draft excludes projects which have received part completion or part-occupation certificates, and even projects where promoters have applied for either, provided they receive the certificates within three months from competent authority.
 
 “We’ve submitted our objections to the draft rule. Now, we’re reaching out to the almighty for help,” said Mridul Babbar, who has booked a flat in  . He said homebuyers want Haryana to implement the central Rera unchanged. Gaurav Prakash, who has invested in a project on Dwarka Expressway, said several projects in Gurgaon are delayed, and in many cases, work on site has stopped. “A stronger Rera is required to clear this mess,” he said.
 
 He added the definition of exempted projects needs to be tightened. Currently, secondary rules (a) to (c), under sub-rule (n) of Rule 2 in the draft, allows ongoing projects that have applied for occupation or part-completion certificates, to be exempted from the state Rera, provided it was filed on or before April 30, 2017, and is approved within three months. “Only projects which receive completion certificates and deeds of declaration before the rules are notified, should be exempted,” he said, adding mere application by builders for occupation/part-completion certificates should not deny consumers the protection of the central Act.
 
 Homebuyers also urged for the inclusion of a provision to track a developer’s record. “Disclose all projects from the time a promoter started operations, and whether they were completed, under Rule 14(1)(a)(ii),” said Prakash.
 
 Under the present rule, a developer needs to provide details of their projects launched in the last 5 years, even though there are many cases where a builder has not received completion certificates for projects launched more than 5 years ago. Demanding complete disclosure, homebuyers said builders should mandatorily list all their projects, irrespective of start date. This way, they can incentivise builders to complete older projects on priority. Details of individual projects should also be provided, so that a buyer can form a cumulative picture of the promoter.
 
