 resident was walking on airport road with a friend when they were accosted. Strangely, there was no robbery or any other motive

 As concerns over   in a city that was once known to be secure continue to grow, a   on a   of Viman Nagar has raised alarm levels.
 
 Aarti Dixit (38), a professional photographer, was taking a walk with a neighbour on the airport road on December 16 when two unidentified men on a motorbike hit her on the hand and zoomed past. But, they then came back and mockingly asked her if she needed help. There was no robbery involved, but Dixit fractured her right hand and has been housebound for the last two weeks.
 
 Along with physical discomfort, fear of stepping out alone has become a malaise for Dixit, along with bemusement at being attacked with apparently no motive.
 
 “Had it been a robbery attempt or an attack out of personal rivalry, I would have at least understood the purpose. But, this was just viciousness without reason,” Dixit told Mirror.
 
 Elaborating on the incident, Dixit said, “My friend Kajal Chodankar and I frequently take walks on the airport road at night. The road is always busy and until this incident, I thought it was safe for us to walk. However, that night, around 10 pm, we walked up to the airport and then turned back towards home. We’d walked nearly half a kilometre towards our society, when two men on a two-wheeler came up from behind us. We weren’t suspicious as several vehicles had passed us. But then, the duo came very close to me and hit me on my right hand with something. I was obviously not ready for it and was badly hurt on my right elbow. Such was the pain that I couldn’t even hold my mobile phone.” It didn’t end there. The duo laughed and went off after hitting Dixit, then returned. Said Chodankar, “After hitting Aarti, they made some strange noises and laughed at us before riding off at high speed. Aarti’s mobile phone was lying on the ground. I helped her to pick it up and we decided to go home. But, we had walked only a few metres when the duo started doing rounds of the road again. After two rounds, they stopped in front of us. We tried to ignore them but they started talking to us. They mockingly asked us if we needed help and asked for our address. It was only when we raised our voices that they finally drove away from the spot.”
 
 Dixit’s fracture has cost her Rs 50,000 in treatment and she cannot work at present. What is even more disturbing is that her lodging a case with the Airport police only brought questions and insinuations about women walking on public roads at night. “When I lodged the complaint, the police started questioning me for walking on the road at night. I am born and brought up in Pune and I always found this city safe. But, after this incident, I am scared. It is the duty of the police to make sure that citizens access public places without fear. Instead, they are asking us to avoid walking on the road,” Dixit rued.
 
 When Mirror contacted senior police inspector Sanjay Naik Patil, in-charge of Airport police station, he said, “There are colleges in the area and considering the large student population, we always have staff patrolling there. This case is unusual as the intention of the attackers is not clear. I will be personally looking into the case and will direct my staff to go through the CCTV footage from the area to identify the attackers.”+ The question remains, are women to continue living in fear of attack merely for taking up public space?
 
 ¦ My friend and I often take walks on the airport road at night. It’s usually buzzing and I thought it was safe
 
 – Aarti Dixit, victim
 
