NAGPUR: Consistent efforts paid dividends to  . City's youngest Fide Master (FM) Raunak completed his maiden norm of becoming Maharashtra's youngest International Master (IM) in Czech Republic on Sunday.

 The 11-year-7-month old prodigy made his presence felt in Czech Grandmasters Open International Chess Tournament at Pardubice in the nine-day tournament that attracted a strong field of 335 masters from across the world. City's emerging chess king remained unbeaten throughout.
 
 Starting as lowly 141st seed with a rating of 2314, Raunak collected 5.5 points to finish the nine-round event at 59th spot and earn a performance rating of 2498 Elo points. To complete IM norm, a player needs 2350 points.
 
 Raunak is now required to clear two more IM norms and maintain a rating of 2400 Elo points. After gaining 45 points in Czech Republic, Raunak's current rating is 2359.
 
 "My journey has just started," an elated Raunak told TOI from Czech Republic. He added, "I will continue to work hard and give consistent results as I know this will help me in fulfilling my dream of becoming a Grandmaster and bring medals for my country." 
 
  
  
 Raunak's coach and Vidarbha first GM Swapnil Dhopade said, "Getting an IM norm at such a young age is incredible. This shows his amazing talent and the hard work he has put in."
 
 Dhopade added, "I am impressed with Raunak's play throughout the tournament. He played all the games solidly especially with the black pieces. He is training hard and improving fast. I am sure that he is soon going to cross the first milestone of International Master Title."
 
 On what's next for the prodigy, Dhopade said, "Young Raunak is making waves in chess due to his rapidly improving performances. He will be competing in Abu Dhabi Masters Chess tournament in UAE next month."
 
 City's first IM Anup Deshmukh, who is currently playing at Catalan Chess Circuit in Spain, too is following the progress of Raunak. In a chat with TOI from Spain, Deshmukh said, "Feeling really proud of Raunak's achievement. He is the future GM of Nagpur."
 
 On his way to the higher finish,Raunak defeated 24th seeded GM   from Belarus and outclassed lower ranked German master Odysseas Kalkodoukas. In the remaining seven games, Raunak held higher ranked title holders from across the world. He forced GMs from Czech Republic Neuman Petr, Haba Petr and Jana Vlastimil and an IM from the host country   to sign the peace treaty. He split points with Russian IM  , GM Abergel Thal of France and Crotian IM  .
 
 Among the 335 masters from 38 countries that took part there were 49 GMs and 66 IMs. 
 
 Raunak's mother Heena, who is accompanying his son, added, "As parents we are overwhelmed at our son's achievement. He played fantastic in European circuit and faced strong opposition. We are proud of him and sure he will soon achieve his remaining two IM norms and cross the rating barrier of 2400 to become an IM. It's the fruit of his hard work, dedication and love for the game." 
 
 The Centre Point School, Katol Road, student was quite elated with his show in the meet and has expressed his gratitude towards parents, coach, school principal and members of Nagpur District Chess Association.
 
