MUMBAI: Actor Pooja Bhatt’s tweet about illegal parking on Bandra’s   on Monday saw police going into an overdrive and clearing the stretch within 24 hours. Other residents said while they have never been lucky to get a response from the authorities so swiftly, but are happy there’s more space for pedestrians now. 

 A local resident and IIT alumni, Nitesh Singhal, tweeted on Monday morning about several vehicles being parked on Rebello Road, in a no-parking zone. Bhatt who lives in the same neighbourhood thanked him for bringing up the issue and tweeted she had been crying hoarse about it. “This is a year-round problem and can’t be blamed on the Bandra fair,” she wrote on the microblogging site. Mumbai North Central Discussion Forum (MNCDF), a group that helps residents in the constituency resolve civic and traffic problems, forwarded Bhatt’s tweet to the   handle, asking them to send a towing truck immediately. 
 
 “I received a standard reply from the police’s Twitter handle—they sent a 10-digit traffic helpline (Whatsapp number). We tried this number in the past and found it to be useless,” said Trivankumar Karnani, a lawyer who founded MNCDF. Bhatt added to this tweet stating she had dialled the police helpline ‘100’ countless times to complain about illegal parking. “They assure me they will send someone but nothing happens,” she tweeted. “If that’s the case, we will draft a written complaint and post it to the Bandra traffic division. We will compel them to enforce the law,” said a tweet from the MNCDF. “Please do that. When we ask people not to park, they get offensive. The most common and polite response being, Tumhare baap ka road hai kya?” tweeted Bhatt. 
 
  
  
  
  
 A few hours later, Mumbai Police tweeted an image of Rebello Road cleared of parked vehicles. “Necessary action has been taken on Rebello Road but long-term solution lies in citizen awareness,” Mumbai Police tweeted. “In absolute agreement. Citizens need to act with far more responsibility. We should initiate an awareness drive for the same. Thank you again (sic),” Bhatt tweeted back. 
 
 “I have tweeted a couple of times to the police about a car parked right at the intersection of Veronica Road and Rebello Road. It’s very dangerous as auto drivers are known to take sharp turns and an accident could occur. For five days, the car remained there and the cops did nothing. For the past two days, it has been vanishing and reappearing at intervals. It was only after Bhatt’s tweet that the cops acted,” said Singhal. “People in Khar-Bandra have too many cars which they park on both sides of the road. Double parking clogs bylanes. The traffic police must conduct regular drives and tow vehicles parked in no-parking zones. Only then will residents realise they need to stop doing this,” said Karnani. 
 
 
