NEW DELHI: Eleven years, several court orders and two inaugurations later, the ambitious project to decongest and pedestrianise the historic Walled City market remains on paper.
At a time when efforts are being made to make Connaught Place a no-vehicle zone, the city's first project to pedestrianise the historic   market is yet to see the light of the day. Eleven years, several court orders and two inaugurations later, the implementation of the plan remains a mystery. The revised detailed project report (DPR) has proposed curbing vehicular movement in the daytime--vehicles would be allowed from 9pm to 9am only--but it's yet to be approved.
 
 According to sources, lack of political will, poor planning, multiplicity of authorities and constant tussle between the state government and the corporation have marred the project, aimed at decongesting the busy market.With the Delhi Metro set to op erationalise its Heritage Line, experts say that footfall in the area is going to increase manifold. “But the market is not equipped to take the increased load.Ever since the project was conceived, government agencies have stopped routine projects to upgrade the infrastructure,“ said Sanjay Bhargava, secretary of  .
 
 TOI looks at the ambitious plan to understand where it went wrong over the past decade.
 
 
 
 
 PWD and   (SRDC), which are responsible for planning and execution of the project, are yet to finalise the plan. It was former Union minister and then area MP Kapil Sibal's idea to redevelop the market. Conceived in 2006, the initial plan was to pedestrianise the main road between Red Fort and Fatehpuri Masjid, take utilities underground, start trams or electric buses on the kilometre-long stretch, create space for parking, redo the façade of buildings on both sides, among others. The north corporation, which inherited the project from the erstwhile MCD post trifurcation, sat on it for a couple of years.The project was then transferred to PWD in 2013.
 
 
 
 
 Architect Abhimanyu Dalal, who prepared the original DPR and has been associated with the project since its inception in 2006, opted out last year, blaming the multiplicity of authori ties and lack of will as main reasons for the plan never taking off. Based on Dayal's plan, PWD had construct ed utility ducts on one of the main carriageways between Fatehpuri Masjid and Red Fort. The work got over a year ago, but BSES and other service providers are yet to shift utilities and cables underground. “The trenches made by PWD are narrow and full of water. We have requested them to widen them, enabling the cables to fit in properly . Installing cables in the present state is dangerous for public safety . Once PWD finishes its work, we will complete our portion within 90 days,“ a BSES spokesperson said.
 
 Another trouble spot was the shifting of transformers. A place was identified on the Town Hall premises, but the north corporation asked for a licence fee of Rs 2.1 crore for this. The exercise to find alternative locations is still on.
 
 
 
 After Dayal quit last year, the SRDC handed over the task to architect  , who is doing the Jama Masjid redevelopment plan as well. The revised DPR has been submitted to SRDC and its approval is awaited. “The revised DPR stresses pedestrianisation of Chandni Chowk. It makes a recommendation that entry be restricted to pedestrians, cycle-rickshaws, e-rickshaws as well as emergency vehicles such as fire engines and ambulances.Other motor vehicles may be allowed between 9pm and 9am,'' said an official. Dayal's departure again slowed the pace of the project, being monitored by Delhi HC. Dayal was any way unhappy with proposals such as tram service, which he said, was “not feasible for a congested area like Chandni Chowk“. It was later withdrawn by the AAP government citing high costs.
 
 
 
 
 PWD took over the project from the north corporation, which allegedly sat on it for 2-3 years.“We have handed over the area to PWD. Now, we don't have any role.In case, they need assistance, we will help them,“ said V P Pandey , leader of the House, north corporation. Sources said the ministry of tourism and the ministry of science & technology asked that the Chandni Chowk redevelopment plan be handed over to them.“I have been actively pursuing the project with Delhi government. I had written to CM regarding this. Initially, some work was done, but the government's response has been very poor... I want the project to be implemented in a time-bound manner,“ said Union minister and local MP Harsh Vardhan.
 
 
 
 SRDC was established in 2008 as a special purpose vehicle to oversee the project. However, till 2014, its role was limited to spreading awareness about the Walled City through heritage walks and exhibitions only. Then, a legal framework was set up to define SRDC's role in the redevelopment of Chandni Chowk and Jama Masjid. Adding to its woes is the fact that the position of the managing director has been lying vacant for several weeks now.
 
 
 
 
 Traders' associations claim that the situation in the market has gone from bad to worse. Residents said the area had become more congested in the past few months .
 
 
 
 Last month, HC appointed PWD secretary Ashwini Kumar as chief of the nodal committee, which held its first meeting recently. “First, we have to push for pedestrianisation and implement the traffic circulation plan. The project has to be implemented in phases,“ he said. SRDC has roped in the Asian Development Bank to give a fresh push to the plan. The project will cost an estimated Rs 1,830 crore, which will be funded by ADB.
 
