AMARAVATI: Municipal administration minister P  , who was away in London, rushed back to   upon receiving the news of the death of his only son   in a road accident in Hyderabad. The minister was on an official visit to London along with CRDA commissioner Sreedhar Cherukuri to give final touches to the capital city designs. Sources said a senior minister called up Sreedhar in the morning and communicated to him about the death of Nishith. The minister is said to have asked the CRDA commissioner to share the tragic news with Narayana. The minister and Sreedhar just returned to their hotel after hectic discussions on the capital city designs when Sreedhar got the call from the minister. Totally shattered Sreedhar is said to have taken one hour before waking up the minister to convey the tragic news.

 The minister with his busy schedule, being the pointsman of chief minister Chandrababu Naidu, was not aware that his son was used to rash driving, sources said.
 
 Sources said that Sreedhar had made arrangements for Narayana to catch the immediate flight to India even while consoling him. Narayana is coming straight to Chennai from London and reach Nellore via road in the early hours of Thursday.Nishith's final rites will be performed in Nellore on Thursday .
 
 In fact, Narayana and Sreedhar reached London on Sunday and held a series of meetings with  , the master architect of the capital city designs.
 
 They made several suggestions to the team after visiting the   and British parliament on Tuesday. The minister had personally suggested some sketches to the architects from Norman Foster and asked them to make some changes to the towers designed for the Assembly building.
 
 He had also asked them to change the designs of podium in the Assembly.
 
 “He means business. He never allows us to waste even a minute. I was surprised to see him spending so many hours in the field without getting tired as he got down to work soon after landing in London,“ said a senior CRDA official who accompanied Narayana to London on a previous occasion.
 
 Meanwhile, most of the cabinet ministers and the ruling party leaders are rushing to Nellore to be with the bereaved family of the minister in their hour tragedy . Panchayat raj minister Nara Lokesh has cancelled all his programmes and is rushing back to Nellore.
 
 Chief minister Chandrababu Naidu, who is in the US, expressed shock over the death of Narayana's son. He asked deputy chief minister   to assist Narayana's family .
 
 The body of Nishith has been shifted to Nellore. The final rites will be performed on the Narayana Medical College campus on Thursday. District minister   is overseeing the arrangements.
 
