Cleared/Ali

 Coimbatore: The city police have launched an ‘Operation Zero Crime’ programme on Friday to meet and educate school students and their parents on crime against children and traffic rules. Police officials will visit 90 private schools in the city and meet students of classes 8-11 and their parents as a part of the programme.
 
 To create awareness among the parents of the school children about the crime against children, the deputy commissioner of police (law &order) S Lakshmi, assistant commissioner of police (law & order- south sub-division) GS Anitha and a few police inspectors and sub-inspectors decided to start a programme three months ago. The police had conducted the awareness programme in 70 corporation schools already.
 
 The city police officials decided to extend the programme to private schools and christened the programme ‘Operation Zero Crime’. The programme was launched by city police commissioner A Amalraj on Friday.
 
 “We want to bring changes in the society. We should bring the changes from school students. Then only we can create a crime-free society and law-abiding citizens in future,” said Lakshmi.
 
 S Saravanan, deputy commissioner of police (traffic) said the traffic police will interact with the parents during the parents’ teachers association (PTA) meeting. “As many as 40 school students are involved in accident cases and out of them three were killed. Parents should not allow their children to ride motorcycles. The city has reported 285 fatal accidents last year and our ultimate aim is to reduce the fatal accident rates to 50%,” said Saravanan.
 
 Inspector of Matriculation Schools R Vanaja said children are mostly spending time with school teachers. So, teachers should bring changes among the students. “Many school children are very emotional and they are taking extreme steps easily. Most of the school students are demanding their parents to buy motorcycles for them. If they did not get, then they will take extreme step. So, parents should be careful and be a role model to their children to create a crime-free society,” said Vanaja.
 
 City police commissioner Amalraj said that Coimbatore is a peaceful city. The city has more than 21 lakh population and less than 400 assault cases were reported last year. Over 400 to 500 property crime cases were reported last year. “Students should know about the functioning of police and become law-abiding citizens,” said Amalraj.
 
 
