MUMBAI: Probe into the recent case where a man allegedly injected a   into his 22-year-old pregnant wife’s back inside Bandra   premises has revealed that the unidentified red liquid was his HIV-positive mother’s blood. Cops have booked the man’s sister, a nurse, for allegedly helping him extract their mother’s blood. After the incident, the two-month pregnant woman underwent an abortion. 

 Bandra-Kurla Complex police arrested Abhimanyu Kamble (26) on September 6 for injecting the syringe into his wife’s back after an argument. 
 
 Kamble and his wife Anita met in 2013 and got married a year later. Barely a year into the marriage, Kamble allegedly began to physically assault Anita. In 2016, Anita lodged a domestic violence complaint against Kamble at Tilak Nagar police station. However, even after the case was filed, things did not improve between them. She filed for divorce.
 
 On the day of the incident, the couple was present in court around 2pm, both with their respective relatives, when they got into an argument. A while later, Anita told her parents that she wanted to use the washroom. As she was walking towards it, she felt something pierce her back. She told cops that when she was pulling out the syringe, she was shocked to see her husband nearby, and pushed him. Apprehending trouble, Kamble fled. 
 
 Kalpana Gadekar, senior inspector, BKC police station, confirmed the development. “We asked him whose blood was it and Kamble replied that it was extracted from his mother, who is an   patient. During interrogation, he told the police that his sister, who has done a nursing course and earlier worked in a Navi Mumbai hospital, had helped collect the blood. We have made her an accused in the case too,” said Gadekar. He was arrested, interrogated and released on bail. 
 
 Police said they have learnt that in her complaint to Tilak Nagar police, Anita also alleged that Kamble would subject her to unnatural sex. “Kamble insisted that if she withdrew her complaint, he would agree to the divorce. She was therefore shocked over the syringe attack,” said an officer. Cops have sent the red liquid for chemical analysis to Kalina forensic science laboratory. She was sent for a medical examination. Cops have reportedly written to Bhabha Hospital, asking them to conduct an advanced test to find if the HIV-positive blood can pose a health risk.
 
