PANAJI: The India under-17 football team will start training in Goa later this week under an interim coach and can expect to have a new full-time coach latest by February 15.
 
  Ever since the players complained in a written letter against coach  , alleging physical abuse, and later repeated the allegations in front of   (AIFF) president  , the federation has been left in no doubt that Nicolai doesn’t have a future with the team.
  
  “We’ve made that very clear to Nicolai and he understands the seriousness. He cannot continue as coach,” a senior AIFF official told TOI on Monday.
  
  The players will arrive in Goa on February 1 and train for a fortnight under the watch of the support staff, or outgoing technical director Scott O’Donnell, who is expected to pack his bags for Australia on February 9.
  
  “Whatever happened is unfortunate but we cannot afford to derail the team’s preparations. The team will get back on the field on February 1 and may only indulge in some physical training,” said the AIFF official.
  
  Assistant coach Etibar Ibrahimov will also get the boot as the players have been clear in their complaint against the man who has been assistant to Nicolai since his stint in Azerbaijan. None of the AIFF officials, however, are willing to confirm the nature of allegations, with some reports claiming Nicolai was abusive in the dressing room, his assistant slapped players when they were found wanting and Nicolai even threw slippers at shell-shocked players during a tour of Germany.
  
  “You cannot fault the federation for any lapse. This was the first time that we heard of complaints (against the coach) and we acted immediately. The letter was written on Tuesday morning and we asked the coach to step down later in the day,” said the official.
  
  As and when Nicolai quits, it will be an unfortunate end to someone who was determined to help the hosts measure up to the challenge in the Under-17 World Cup 2017.
  
  “I always feel bad when the young boys come and touch my shoe. That’s an Indian thing. Any young player would love to be with us. But it’s not easy. You must also agree that there is a lot of pressure on these boys. You cannot have the best of something without going through hell. You have to go through really bad times,” Nicolai had told TOI in an interview a couple of months ago.
  
  Right now, it appears that Nicolai has to go through difficult times, and his vision of hell will be known only when the beleaguered coach breaks his silence.
