CHENNAI: Newly-appointed Team India coach  's statement that he is the one who should pick his support staff has created a stir over the past couple of days. On Sunday, Shastri found a staunch supporter in former India fielding coach  .

 Robin, who was the fielding coach of the Indian team from 2007-2009, stressed if he was the coach, then he would want people with whom "he is comfortable" with.
 
 "Let me put it like this.. I like to work with people who I know. I don't like to work with people who I don't know. It's really a comfort level that you need to have. You have to work with people with whom you have an understanding and who you think can execute," Robin, who is the head coach of Karaikudi Kaalai team in the TNPL, said during an interaction.
 
 The 53-year-old former India allrounder further mentioned that this sort of an approach isn't just seen in cricket. "You can ask anyone around - whether it's cricket or a company. The CEO or the management want their own people. I don't think there is a controversy. Everyone makes it a controversy. At the end of the day, if I'm coach, I would want people who I'm comfortable with. It's as simple as that," he added.
 
 While the Cricket Advisory Committee (CAC) which involves legends  ,   and   picked former India pacer   and   as bowling and batting consultants respectively, Shastri, who was picked as the head coach, had mentioned former bowling coach  's name in his desired support staff list.
 
 When asked whether the   has handled the selection of the head coach in a proper manner, Robin said: "I'm in no position to answer that." Robin also didn't want to comment on the Virat Kohli-Anil Kumble showdown stating that he wasn't aware of what was going on. "I never ever comment on what's done," said Robin.
 
 Back with the Kaalai for the second season, Robin, who is also a member of the support-staff with the  , said the IPL franchises are keenly looking at players from TNPL. "Everyone is looking at all forms of cricket. TNPL was a stunning example. The standard was pretty good. There were a lot of young guys who looked really confident.
 
 "From MI, there were about 7-8 guys who were being looked at during IPL last season. I would pass on whomsoever the player they are looking at for our franchise as well as other franchisee. At the end of the day, it's cricket. If a young guy is good and you can afford to give him an opportunity, why not?" he added.
 
