BENGALURU: Doubt whether your home or workplace has encroached upon a storm water drain (SWD) and fear it may be pulled down by the BBMP? Don’t fret. A portal launched on Thursday will help you find out the exact location of SWDs or rajakaluves in the city and know if your property is sitting on one of them.

 The   initiative of Indian Institute of Management, Bangalore (IIMB-RERI) along with BBMP’s support has come up with the website — www.rajakaluve.org.
 
 Launching the portal for public use, BBMP commissioner   said: “It gives people information about the SWDs in their locality. All citizens need to do is key in details like the land’s survey number and names of the village, hobli and taluk.”
 
 Prof Venkatesh Panchapagesan, head of IIMB-RERI, said, “There is a general fear among citizens on whether their properties encroach upon rajakaluves. It is fuelled by lack of information. Through this effort, we hope to alleviate people’s fear by making information easily accessible to them. This is one of the first initiatives by IIMB-RERI to empower citizens, he added.
 
 The portal was designed by Prof Venkatesh and executed by product manager Sriram Ranganathan and his team. It was conceived when BBMP began the demolition drive to clear encroachments on SWDs in 2016. “We found that the information available was scattered. Hence, we felt a need to create a portal for easy public access. This one-stop portal disseminates updated information on rajakaluves,” said N Karthik, manager, IIMB-RERI. “The Palike has backed our effort. We are exploring various options to take it to the next stage,” he added.
 
 The portal has used data available in the public domain. “Although information on encroachments is available on government websites, it’s not easily accessible. It is difficult for the common man to obtain encroachment details are they are often provided only in the text embedded within the survey drawings released by government agencies,” Ranganathan said. 
 
 Box: View encroached drains on  
 
 IIMB-RERI is also collaborating with www.mapshalli.org, a citizen-centric initiative by a resident of Whitefield and member of Whitefield Rising, to enable citizens to use the Google Maps facility to view SWDs. Residents will be able to see encroached and non-encroached rajakaluves, which have been marked in red and green respectively. 
 
 Shiv Shankar, the developer of www.mapshalli.org, said: “Technology-enabled solutions are the way forward to solve present-day urban challenges. We started with the mapping of 50 villages around Whitefield. Now, after collaborating with IIMB-RERI, we have covered 350 villages. We hope to help citizens use modern technology, have easy access to civic information and thereby make better decisions.”
 
