NAGPUR: Data pertaining to revaluation results declared between January and March for last winter exam of   has revealed that maximum applications came from Bachelor of Engineering students while their Bachelor of Arts counterparts are at the bottom of the list. 

 According to exam section officials, the percentage is far less when compared with the number of students taking the winter exam in faculty of engineering. 
 
 Around 75,000 BE students appeared for the winter 2016 exam. Out them, around 5,000 from first, second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh and eight semesters from the 13 branches of BE applied for revaluation. They also included external and internal students. No other course came even close to the BE numbers. 
 
 Director of   and Evaluation   said despite such large numbers his department was able to bring out all the revaluation results, except BE (Civil), in record time. 
 
 “Requisition forms are collected, a computerized list is prepared, and centre and roll numbers are sorted out. An examiner list is also readied. After this, spot valuation is done. Here too, it is ensured same valuers are not given the paper. 
 
 In case, an examiner doesn’t turn up, a couple of days are needed for appointing a new one. Such things tend to delay the results,” he said.
 
 Khaty also said that revaluation cases decline towards the sixth semester as students ensure all their previous semester subjects are clear before they reach the final year. 
 
 On the high number of revaluation applications from engineering faculty, he said that the fact can be tied to socio-economic factors. “BE education is costlier as compared to BSc,   or BCom. It is like taking a chance. If the marks increase, the students save money, time and efforts in studying an extra subject,” he said adding that other streams don’t care much about reappearing for exams.
 
 As per the data, the exam section received just 24 applications from BA final year (Old) and 21 from BA Part II (Old) during the same period. A college principal said 50% to 60% students enrolling for BA just want to be degree holders. BCom students at least challenge the valuation if they are not satisfied with the results but BA students don’t care much,” he added.
 
 Other courses which saw students going for revaluation include MBA, BArch, BCom and Law. Interestingly, many MSc courses saw nil revaluation cases. 
 
 Table
 
 Course ---------------- Revaluation cases
 
 BE ---------------------- 5,000
 
 MBA -------------------- 479
 
 BCom ------------------ 300
 
 Law --------------- 300
 
 BArch ----------------- 68
 
 BA ------------------ 45
 
 (Cases handled by exam section from Jan 2017 to Mar 15, 2017. Figures are approximate)
 
 
