CHENNAI:  's absence is being sorely felt in the AIADMK. The lack of a powerful leader in the party has seen seniors indulging in shadow boxing and giving the impression that the party is now a divided house. 

 Twice in the past week, senior leader and Lok Sabha deputy speaker M Thambidurai has taken on the Centre on the jallikattu issue in spite of chief minister  's "collaborative and interactive" session with the Modi government. The growing groupism and simmering battle over leadership have proved an embarrassment to the AIADMK general secretary  . Adding to the churning within are statements of some leaders like former minister KP Munusamy and the defection of some others to the group led by Jayalalithaa's niece Deepa.
 
  On Wednesday, Munusamy stirred the pot again by flaying Thambidurai for diminishing the chief minister's authority by urging Sasikala to become CM and also trying to meet the PM on the jallikattu issue when OPS had met him. Senior leaders have also been talking in hushed tones about the open animosity being displayed by Thambidurai towards OPS. "We hear that Thambidurai has insulted the CM during meetings and that family members have been instigated to talk to Sasikala about her eroding authority and the possibility of her losing control over the party if she did not take the reins of the government," said a senior AIADMK leader, seeking anonymity.
 
 Munusamy had come down hard on Sasikala's family members, husband M Natarajan and brother Diwakaran, for trying to create power centres, indulging in "family politics" and claiming that they played a significant role in building AIADMK. The growing goodwill for OPS prior to the Marina violence and his unobtrusive manner of functioning, have made "people close to Sasikala" uneasy, say loyalists of the CM. They allege a hand of "close family members" in the violent end to the Marina agitation and see attempts to discredit the chief minister. The Modi government's backing of OPS and the PM not granting an audience to a Thambidurai-led delegation of party MPs is being construed as an attempt by BJP "to create divisions" within AIADMK.
 
 OPS loyalists point out that the chief minister had made it quite clear where his loyalties lay by following Sasikala's instructions closely. "By his unobtrusive manner of functioning, OPS has conveyed in no ambiguous terms that he would never exceed his brief nor step out of line," said a leader close to Panneerselvam, not willing to be named. 
 
