 is looking at a year of potential milestones. The Hyderabadi beauty is poised for a Tamil debut with  's love story 'Kaatru Veliyidai' opposite  , will play Kamala Devi, wife to  's Alauddin Khilji in  's period romance 'Padmavati', and  's daughter in his comeback film, 'Bhoomi'. 

  
  
 "A week after I wrapped up Mani sir's film, I started shooting for Sanjay (Bhansali) sir's 'Padmavati'. His attention to detail, be it dance, music or jewellery, is amazing. I'd stand on my head in a snowstorm for them without asking questions," she exclaims.
 
 Mention SLB ,the 'tough taskmaster' moniker and the 30-year-old actress, quick on the uptake, says diplomatically that even though she did get to see that side of the filmmaker she has no complaints. "Being a taskmaster is essential to push yourself. Cinema is a director's medium, and when a director challenges me, it infuses me with the energy to do better," Aditi asserts.
 
 'Padmavati' also features  , Ranveer Singh and   in the lead but Aditi has no qualms about doing multi-starrer even though she admits playing the protagonist is any day better. "Once I want to do a film, I give it my 100 per cent to it. It's 2017 and actors need to change their approach. It's amazing to land an author-backed part, but I also wouldn't think twice about taking up a multi-starrer with a great director," she argues.
 
 Ratnam's film, in which she plays a doctor, required Aditi to learn Tamil. "I tried to grasp the nuances of the language so I could effortlessly internalise Mani sir's instructions. I didn't want language to be a barrier even on that level. It was challenging and now that I'm back in Mumbai and no longer hearing the language being spoken constantly, I'm afraid I might forget it," she sighs. "Mani sir's cinema transcends language. If he had asked me to do the film in German, I would have done it because of the kind of director he is."
 
 While she refuses to discuss the role or her co-star she does reveal that they would start shooting at sunrise so they could utilise as much daylight as possible. "I got to see a new side of mornings on a daily basis," says Aditi who despite her ethereal, old world beauty refuses to be slotted as a sweet innocent.
 
 But it was the little girl innocence that perhaps landed her the role in Sanjay Dutt's 'Bhoomi'. The actress suddenly clams up, refusing to discuss her 57-year-old screen dad or the film. "I've been told not to speak about it," she maintains. Meanwhile, rumours of a linkup with her 'Wazir' co-star, Farhan Akhtar, which had surfaced around the release of the film last year, have finally died down. Ask Aditi if her 10-year tenure in show business has made her immune to such gossip and she retorts, "I'm a sensitive girl and do get upset but then I see the humour in these concocted stories and move on. At the end of the day, I'm still a kid. I don't know if that's good or bad but that's is the way I am," she signs off.
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
