BENGALURU: The rebalancing of caste equations ahead of every election seems to have begun early this time. The ruling  , which has hitherto relied heavily on chief minister Siddaramaiah's   (minorities, backward classes and Dalits) vote bank, has made its first foray into social engineering in the state by targeting a major support base of BJP - the Lingayats. 

 Siddaramaiah has constituted a team of five cabinet ministers, all Lingayats, to elicit opinion on the long-standing demand of the community to be recognized as a separate religion, in a move being seen as a bid to split the Lingayat vote. 
 
  In 2013, a three-way division in the BJP vote had proved to be the single biggest contributor to the Congress victory. According to senior party functionaries, the party took inspiration from former CM D Devaraj Urs and adopted a formula that shifted the spotlight from the two dominant communities in the state - Lingayats and the Vokkaligas - to OBCs, Dalits and minorities. The move clicked and Siddaramaiah won the election. But now, he knows he has to go further to win back  , considering that BJP is now an amalgamated party with the "ghar wapsi" of major social group leaders like B S Yeddyurappa and B Sreeramulu. 
 
  But can the party create a dent in BJP's vote bank, especially when it has not been able to garner the support of the Lingayats since the 1990s? 
 
 Harish  , a political analyst based in Lingayat-dominated north Karnataka, believes the ruling party has scored brownie points tactically. "This strategy will kill two birds with one stone. One, it will help them counter the cultural-political (Hindutva) agenda of BJP and secondly, it will divide the Lingayats and weaken the political base of the party, especially in north Karnataka."
 
 Dangling reservations under backward tag and minority status to Lingayats to woo a section of the community into Congress fold from BJP might also work to an extent, said Ramaswamy.
 
 Political commentator S Mahadeva Prakash agrees: "BJP's definite vote share is around 30%, and even if Congress manages to grab 5% of the votes, the saffron party may lose 30-40 seats. Except in 1994, Congress has consistently secured around 35% vote share in each election. And if it succeeds in snatching 5% of votes from BJP's kitty, it can win with a comfortable margin."
 
 
