AMRITSAR: Claiming that majority of Sikh individuals, sects and bodies observe religious days according to the   calendar published by the SGPC, the jathedar of   Giani   said if a handful of Sikhs had differences over that it never meant that the almanac was not acceptable to the Panth.

 Gurbachan Singh was talking to newspersons after releasing Nanakshahi calendar for 2017-18 at the Akal Takht secretariat here on Wednesday. “Majority of Sikh sects, including Nihangs, Nirmalays, Udhasis and Damdami Taksal, observe Sikh religious days according to the SGPC-published calendar,” he said while directing the Panth to adhere to the calendar for personal as well as religious occasions.
 
 When asked that there were several other Sikh bodies within India and abroad who publish their own Nanakshahi calendar based on the one prepared by author Pal Singh Purewal in 2003, the jathedar said, “Sikh bodies shouldn’t blow their own trumpet and instead should unite under the aegis of the Akal Takht.”
 
 Reacting to the incidents of hate crimes in foreign countries, especially the US, he said, “Racial attacks are condemnable and worrisome incidents happening to Sikhs.” He observed that the community had contributed immensely to the development of the US and its government should ensure their security. “US government should instil a sense of security among Sikhs by giving exemplary punishments to those behind these racial attacks,” he maintained.
 
 Stating that takht jathedars and high priests of the Golden Temple had been visiting abroad for the propagation of Sikhism, Gurbachan Singh said he had recently visited Israel and the US. “If need be, we will again visit the US for the propagation of Sikhism and tell Americans about the unique identity of Sikhs, their religious symbols and their compassionate hearts.”
 
 Expressing concern over incessant incidents of desecration of Guru Granth Sahib and accidental fires in various gurdwaras, the Akal Takht jathedar once again directed gurdwara management bodies to ensure round-the-clock vigil. “If the gurdwara management committees fail to protect Guru Granth Sahib, the SGPC could contemplate taking legal action against them,” he said. While advising the gurdwara management committees to install CCTV cameras in the gurdwaras, he said those committees who were not in a position to afford cost of CCTVs could approach the SGPC for the help.
 
 
