Ahmedabad: A Mumbai court has again issued an arrest warrant against Gujarat BJP president Jitu Vaghani and two of his business associates, in connection with a cheque-bounce case.

 
 After Mahim police failed to arrest Vaghani and three others, the metropolitan magistrate of the 58th court in Bandra, on Monday forwarded the arrest warrant against Vaghani and his two partners – Bharat Patel and Sandip Soparia — to the director general of Gujarat police, to facilitate the arrest of the accused because they had left Mumbai and were living in Gujarat.
 
 The Gujarat DGP is supposed to execute the non-bailable warrant and send the three accused to the Mumbai court by May 2.
 
 Gujarat DGP-in charge Geetha Johri said: “I have been in office since morning but have not received any orders from the court directing the DGP office to help serve the warrant on Gujarat BJP president Jitu Vaghani.”
 
 The Mumbai court had first issued a non-bailable warrant against Vaghani and his three business partners in Eva Group on December 31, 2016, for four cheques worth Rs 19 lakh that had not been honoured. The cheques were issued to Novelty Power and Infratech with regard to the purchase and cancellation of a deal for a property worth Rs 10.85 crore in Mumbai in 2010-11.
 
 As the cheques bounced due of insufficient funds in the bank accounts, Novelty’s managing director Owaisi Shakir Nuri sued Vaghani and his partners under section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act. A sessions court in Mumbai turned down Vaghani’s revision application against the process issued by the magisterial court.
 
 Vaghani, who claimed to have paid the sum to Novelty, was not available for comment after a fresh arrest warrant was issued.
 
 Demanding Vaghani’s resignation, Gujarat Congress leader Nishit Vyas said, “The BJP president claims that he had paid the money to the complainants. Then why is he shying away from the court? What led the court to direct the Gujarat DGP to execute the warrant?”
 
 Reacting to the Congress’s comment, BJP spokesperson Pandya said the Congress was acting as the spokesperson of the company and was out to discredit Vaghani. “The Congress does not have any issue for the elections. Hence it was trying to raise a non-issue,” Pandya said.
 
 
