NAGPUR: 
 

 Excerpts from the interview...
 
 
 
 
  It’s certainly a good regulation and a much needed one in the IT era. The only thing is that the weightage given to stakeholders like principals, teachers and management has been slightly reduced. More emphasis has been given to nominated members, either through the chancellor or-vice chancellor. Now, both these top authorities would have major voice while taking any decision in the statutory bodies like management, academic councils and senate. In the 1994 and 1974 Acts, more weightage was granted to elected members.
 
 
 
  Undoubtedly, it has been drafted keeping the students as nucleus. Not only in the senate, students are also being given due place in bodies like management council and the newly-constituted   and Sports and Physical Education Board. In the management council, the students’ council president would be an invitee member. Moreover, they’re also given representation in the Board of Studies (BoS), which is a good decision. The merit holder would be invited as members on various boards.
 
 
 
  No, because it’s up to the implementing agencies to honestly apply all its provisions in letter and spirit. We can’t say that the earlier regulations of were not good. All Acts are enacted for raising the standard, but poor implementation by the stakeholders leads to deterioration. In the new Act, many good provisions have been made to raise the academic standards, but I am doubtful about proper implementation.
 
 
 
 
  It’s a welcome change. Earlier, class representatives used to be selected among meritorious students and at later stage, elections used to be conducted. Now, polls would be conducted from the first stage itself. The process would be like general polls where canvassing would be done by the contestants. My only concern is political parties shouldn’t be allowed to enter, as they would vitiate the process. Even their youth organisations like   and NSUI should be barred. See what’s happening in the Delhi and   universities.
 
 
 
 
 The VC remains whole and sole leader and his powers are further enhanced in the new Act. Since the strength of nominated members has been increased, he would have the last say in any decision, unlike earlier times. Now, the chancellor and VC are given full powers and free hand to implement their vision and policies. Any visionary VC can take the university to newer heights.
 
 
 
 
  Teachers have been given very limited scope in statutory bodies. Fortunately, their strength was maintained in the BoS. Teachers are major constituents of education system and their views play an important role in framing the policies. They also merged all faculties into four, which I think would be an adverse move and lead to problems. Now, every dean has the responsibility of two faculties.
 
 
 
  At least a year, as a lot of changes have been made. With the restart of elections, the process has become more complicated, as these would be conducted in September/October when semester exams will commence. It would be difficult to maintain the academic calendar in toto.
 
