PANAJI: Although the BJP’s Panaji candidate, Sidharth Kuncalienker, said he was not in favour of offshore casinos, his manifesto for Panaji remained silent on the issue. 

 The BJP, which faces a formidable challenge in defence minister Manohar Parrikar’s bastion with the entry of   (UGP) candidate Atanasio ‘Babush’ Monserrate, on Wednesday launched a separate manifesto for the development of the state’s capital city.
 
 When questioned about the party’s silence on the issue of offshore casinos, despite it promising to shift the vessels out of city limits in the run-up to the 2012 assembly elections, Kuncalienker said, “I don’t encourage casinos,” while stating that Panjimites declared their verdict when he was elected in the February 2015 bypolls. Upon being badgered, the Panaji   finally said permissions were given during the tenure of the Congress-led and government and that the casino vessels couldn’t be removed overnight.
 
 “The decision has to be honoured,” Kuncalienker said, adding that it is now up to the future government to decide on whether the offshore casinos should be shifted. “An MLA cannot implement government decisions,” Kuncalienker said, trying to shift the focus of discussion to other issues that he thought were more relevant.
 
 The Panaji MLA also vowed to focus on carrying forward the Smart City and AMRUT initiatives, “under which a lot of projects have been planned for the development of the capital city”. The plan includes the upgrading of the sewage treatment plant at Patto and laying of vacuum sewers in low-lying areas to ensure a soak pit-free Panaji by 2020. He said the Campal football stadium project will also be worked upon.
 
 Replying to a question, Kuncalienker said the process of getting approvals for a waste treatment plant at Bainguinim was under way. The plant is expected to be built on the lines of the one at Saligao. He also said that he didn’t consider any of the candidates in the fray for the Panaji seatsix in totalunworthy.
 
  “I have not asked for anything and have always shouldered whatever responsibility the party has offered to me,” the Panaji MLA said when asked if he would demand for a ministerial berth.
 
 
