KOCHI: The   beautification project has hit a roadblock. The   , which was involved in beautifying and maintenance of the medians along the stretch, has decided to discontinue its work after January 31. In a complaint submitted to  , the society has said that it was impossible for them to go ahead with its activities. “We face threats from political parties, police and individuals when we remove hoardings, flex boards. It is difficult to go ahead with the work due to non-corporation of various organizations and departments,“ said ME Mohamed, secretary of the society .

 The office bearers of the society pointed out an incident that took place on December 9, 2016. An individual threatened and filed a   and workers engaged by the society. “They were detained at the police station for several hours and were subjected to verbal abuse. It was with much difficulty that we were able to get them out of the station. Though the matter was brought to the attention of the mayor and higher police officials, no action was taken,“ added Mohamed.
 
 The Kochi Bypass Beauti fication Society was entrusted with the beautification work on December 31, 2014. An agreement was signed between the corporation and the society for carrying out the beautification works for three years. As per the agreement, the society has to be informed before any works are carried out on the beautified areas between Vyttila and Edappally .It was also authorized to remove hoardings and flex boards set up in the region. “The society has been carrying out these activities for the last two years. We have spent around Rs 1.10 crore.There are 15 establishments as members in the society and each member has spent around Rs 2-12 lakh for the beautification works. So far, the local body has not spent any money on this project,“ said  , the society's chairman.
 
 The society said its members have put in enormous effort and resources. On any given day there are eight employees and a supervisor.They have dug 34 bore-wells for watering the plants. Besides, they have brought in tricycles fitted with generators and pump sets. Pipelines were laid along 7km stretch.
 
 “We do not want to walk in and out of police stations. We took up the work considering it as a social responsibility.,“ said Mohamed.
 
