NEW DELHI: Keep things simple and focus on consumer, people and brands,  , the new head of the India arm of the world's largest beverage maker Coca-Cola, told his subordinates in his first Town Hall address last week.
 
  “Consumer, people and brands — these three things form the core of a large, scalable, consumer facing business,” said Krishnakumar, or KK as he is popularly known, who replaced Venkatesh Kini as Coca-Cola India president on May 1.
  
  He highlighted the need to focus on high-margin single serve packs, which also drive consumer's convenience, as he looks to drive the company out of a five quarter of sluggish sales and category stagnation.
  
  A cricket buff and Indian Institute of Management, Bangalore, alumnus, KK is not a typical ‘flamboyant’ CEO. A teetotaller, he hardly parties and mostly sticks to his trademark white, cotton half sleeves shirts in office instead of business suits.
  
  The only touches of flamboyance about him during his IIM-B days were his Enfield Bullet motorcycle, which he would take around the city, and his unwavering admiration for former cricketer Krish Srikkanth who was a former collegemate of KK, said Shashi Kalathil, one of KK’s IIM-B batchmates who is a   consultant now.
  
  But he is effective. “While he may not be as flashy as a typical cola head, he's done an exceptional job with market execution at Coca-Cola in the last few years,” said Kalathil, a former PepsiCo marketing head. Known as a stickler for time, KK has had the longest stint at Hindustan Coca-Cola Beverages as chief executive, a post he held since 2010.
  
  With Coca-Cola for the past 13 years, he’s previously worked with Asian Paints, Murugappa group’s electronics and confectionery brands, and consumer goods maker Henkel, across functions including sales, market research and general management. He will need to draw from all his experiences to put Coca-Cola back on growth track. While India is a top six critical market for the Atlanta-based multinational, slowing single-digit decline in sales volumes, consumers changing preferences to healthy drinks and smaller packs, and multiple taxation within the category including a potential sugar tax have all had the beverage maker grappling for growth in the country.
  
  KK’s elevation comes at a time when the beverage maker’s global leadership has also changed, with   replacing Muhtar Kent as CEO on May 1. While announcing the changes in Indian leadership, James Murphy, president for Asia Pacific Group at Coca-Cola, had said, “The Coca-Cola Company is designing a new operating model to support the next stage of transformation into a growth-oriented, consumer-centred, total beverage company.”
  
  KK’s first town hall with Coca-Cola India employees was much on those lines.
