PALAKKAD: Many parts of the district, particularly the   of the  , are reeling  .

 This is mainly due to the failure of the south west monsoon in June-July and the north east monsoon in October-November.
 
 The failure of monsoons has resulted in the drying up of major rivers, streams, reservoirs, ponds and wells in   hills, where desertification had set in due to the wanton destruction of its forest and environment, which began as early as in the 1950s.
 
 In the Attapadi tribal heartland, Pudur and Sholayur grama panchayats are reeling under severe  . The Bhavani, Siruvani and Kodumgarapallam rivers have dried up leading to acute shortage of drinking water in 70 out of the 100 tribal hamlets in the two local bodies.
 
 The eastern parts of Agali grama panchayat including Narasimukku, Kottathara, Bhuthivazhi and Pattimalam are also facing acute drinking  .
 
 In areas such as Mulli in Pudur grama panchayat, nearly 300 tribal families have no drinking water as the streams had dried up.
 
 The tribal people used to collect water from the rivulets and streams originating from forests. Since all these water sources have dried up, they are now reeling under acute water crisis, said K A Ramu, a tribal activist from Attapadi.
 
 Palur, Kulappatti, Vallavatti, Dhudigaddi, Gottiyarkandi and Thekkupana areas are also face drinking water shortage, said Ramu. Hostels and schools in the tribal regions are also under the grip of water shortage, he said.
 
 Shortage of water has badly affected the cultivation crops, mainly millet, cotton, vegetables, banana and coconut.
 
 Meanwhile, the revenue department officials said that drinking water is being supplied in 50 tribal hamlets in tanker trucks including in some remote areas.
 
 Cattle rearing, which is one of the main vocations of the tribal people, is also badly hit. There is scarcity of cattle feed due to the drought situation. The tribal people have started selling off their cattle as they are not able to provide them with enough fodder and water.
 
 
