MADURAI: The   commissioner Aneesh Sekhar, in a circular on Saturday, laid down certain rules and regulations that should be adhered to by the people residing in the 100 wards of the city, if they wanted to get new   pipeline or underground drainage (UGD) connections. However, residents of the newly-added 28 wards of the corporation said that the civic body should first set right the problems with regard to basic amenities in their areas before implementing the new rules. 

 Water and drainage connections are a major problem in most of the newly-added wards. Not only the areas lack them, but there is also no proper system in place. Co-ordinator of the Gomathypuram-Thendral Nagar residents welfare association D Raghavan said he did not know if the commissioner had sent out the circular knowing the drawbacks of ward no. 30.
 
 Housing plan approvals were given for this extension area and drainage connection fee also collected at the time of approval. “However, without any proper monitoring, many of the new houses continue to connect their sewage pipelines to the UGD system of this region, which was constructed about 20 years ago. The corporation, itself, has declared that the old drainage is unscientific and has to be revamped. Under these circumstances, I do not know how new connections can be approved,’’ he said.
 
 The problem was different in ward no. 31 and some parts of ward no. 30, including  . Here, an outdated and incomplete drainage system discharged sewage into an open channel, which is uncovered for most of its length. “This open sewage system is a breeding ground for mosquitoes and other diseases. The entire system has to be reconstructed,” said Janarthanan of Marudhupandian Street.
 
 Meenakshi Nagar in Avaniapuram is another extended area which was brought under the Madurai Corporation a few years ago. It has an open drain, which if not cleared of its sludge starts brimming and flowing onto the road.
 
 The members of the Gomathypuram-Thendral Nagar association had met the new commissioner when he assumed charge and made a representation in regard to the drainage and pipeline. “We were told that a proposal of over Rs 200 crore has been sent to the government for approval for revamping the entire system.I don’t see how they can issue a circular like this,’’ said Raghavan.
 
 S V Pathy, of Gomathypuram, said that though the corporation commissioners try to ensure that these connections are done properly, it is a system prone to corruption and bribery and that he was sure that no corporation engineer or concerned worker ever oversaw any new connection work.
 
 Corporation commissioner Aneesh Sekhar said that the regulation applies only to the areas which had a proper water supply main and UGD main. “We have a data of areas that do not have a proper scientific drainage system or water supply system. If people from those areas apply they will be told to seek an alternative as we are working with the government to get proper mains for these regions,’’ he said. 
 
 “We have received complaints of issues pertaining to these connections and we want to ensure that the people are not made to pay more than what is due,” he added.
 
