NEW DELHI: Indians form the biggest chunk of  , reinforcing the image of   being India’s de facto national carrier as it is the single largest international airline here in terms of flying people in and out of the country.

 Dubai Airports has said that   handled 65.8 lakh passengers in November 2016. “India (with almost 9.6 lakh passengers) was the top destination country in terms of total passenger numbers recorded in November. The growth spurred mainly by increase in capacity and launch of new services by Spice Jet, Jet Airways,   and other carriers during the year, followed by Saudi Arabia (4.7 lakh), the UK (4.6 lakh), and Pakistan (3 lakh),” it said in a statement.
 
 In 2015, Emirates flew 53.7 lakh people in and out of India — with a majority of them transiting through Dubai — making it the largest foreign airline in terms of passenger volumes here. On a standalone basis, it was at number three in 2015 with Jet and AI flying 70.7 lakh and 56.5 lakh, respectively, in and out of India in 2015. The Mumbai-Dubai and Delhi-Dubai were two of the busiest international routes in India that year, something that is unlikely to have changed in 2016.
 
 Dubai is seeking more bilaterals, or flying rights, to India. India, on its part, has linked giving Dubai more access to the country to Indian carriers getting more and better slots at Dubai International. Indian and Dubai carriers are allowed to fly 65,000 seats per week. While Emirates and FlyDubai have completely utilized this 65,000 capacity, Indian carriers are utilizing only 90%.
 
 Eighty per cent utilization of bilaterals is India’s cut off point for initiating talks for additional flying rights. India will hike Dubai’s flying rights by an amount that Indian carriers can also mount and not lead to a mismatch in utilization by Indian and Dubai carriers.
 
 Emirates had last year written to aviation minister A G Raju, ‘urgently’ seeking enhancement of flying rights. Emirates has pointed out that Indian carriers added 38 weekly frequencies to Dubai this summer and now operate 118 weekly flights there with seat factors of over 80%. Emirates operates 176 weekly flights to nine Indian cities.
 
 The Modi government’s caution comes from the fact that UPA’s liberal grant of bilaterals to Dubai meant that Emirates was known as the virtual national carrier of India. CAG had in 2011 questioned UPA’s move to hike flying rights to Dubai from 10,400 seats to 54,200 between 2005 and 2010. It had questioned the one-sided grant as Indian carriers were not able to mount a fraction of that capacity while Emirates, along with FlyDubai, utilized their bit in no time.
 
