NEW DELHI:   co-founder and CEO Mark   has apologised for his social networking site being “used to divide people.”

 He issued the apology on Yom Kippur, the Jewish Day of Atonement. “For those I hurt this year, I ask forgiveness and I will try to be better. For the ways my work was used to divide people rather than bring us together, I ask forgiveness and I will work to do better. May we all be better in the year ahead, and may you all be inscribed in the book of life,” Zuckerberg wrote in a status update on Sunday.
 
 The apology follows a long post by Zuckerberg on September 27 that addressed the issue of political bias on Facebook.
 
 “Trump says Facebook is against him. Liberals say we helped Trump. Both sides are upset about ideas and content they don’t like. That’s what running a platform for all ideas looks like,” he wrote, arguing that Facebook did not swing elections so much as it influenced people to vote. “After the election, I made a comment that I thought the idea misinformation on Facebook changed the outcome of the election was a crazy idea.
 
 Calling that crazy was dismissive and I regret it. This is too important an issue to be dismissive. But the data we have always shown that our broader impact — from giving people a voice to enabling candidates to communicate directly to helping millions of people vote — played a far bigger role in this election,” he wrote.
 
 Earlier on September 22, Zuckerberg had gone live on Facebook talking about Russian interference in the US elections He announced nine steps that the social networking giant would take to investigate Russian interference through political ads on Facebook, and also what they would do to contain it and how they would tweak ad review policies.
 
 “We have been investigating this for many months, and for a while we had found no evidence of fake accounts linked to Russia running ads. When we recently uncovered this activity, we provided that information to the special counsel. We also briefed Congress — and this morning I directed our team to provide the ads we’ve found to Congress as well,” he said.
 
 After US president   came to power, Facebook’s role in “swinging” the election through opinionshaping has been widely discussed, forcing the social media behemoth to issue a slew of clarifications. Earlier, there were reports in American news outlets on how advertisers could target their Facebook marketing at an audience filtered by anti-Semitic terms. Facebook COO   had then announced that Facebook would disable ad tools that allowed ad targeting via hateful or racist terms.
 
 Social commentator Santosh Desai says the apology further underscores the importance Facebook has acquired in public discourse. “Earlier, however powerful media outlets would be, they would be localised. Facebook is a different behemoth. It is a globaly powerful force. With its algorithms, it mediates by allowing or disallowing or prioritising posts. It is an important player in the game,” he says.
 
 Chinmayi Arun of the National Law University’s Centre for Communication Governance says   like Facebook have come to a point where they cannot ignore their market power anymore. “Their earlier arguments on how intermediaries and platforms like them do not have a say in public discourse is becoming increasingly weak. It is not a small company and it definitely has an impact,” she says.
 
 
 
