Coimbatore: A one-day training and workshop to government field and extension officers was conducted on Monday by the scientists from the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University on how to diagnose, identify, treat and prevent   - microscopic worms that live in soil and can cause diseases in many crops – infestations. 

 The training was organized after the scientists noticed the presence of nematodes in nurseries and fields across the state and other parts of the country. 
 
 Scientists from the department of nematology in the university stated that they have come across several cases of nematodes spreading across states and even countries by infesting planting material. Nematodes damage the roots of the plant, but the symptoms often go unnoticed. Farmers are clueless about why their crops are not growing, as majority of them and even field workers are unaware of nematode diseases. The problems are more acute in horticultural crops and nematode infection originates through nursery planting materials, particularly in fruit crops. 
 
 When the planting material itself is infested, many newly established orchards fail to take off resulting in huge losses to the orchardists, said a scientist. 
 
 The problems are more acute in horticultural crops, particularly in fruit crops, when nematode infections are transferred from nursery planting materials. When the planting material itself is infested, many newly established orchards fail to grow resulting in huge losses to the orchardists, said a scientist. 
 
 Department of nematology organised the workshop along with the All India Coordinated Research Project (AICRP) on Nematodes and Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR). The programme was attended by more than 100 delegates comprising horticulture officers, quarantine officers and nurserymen from Tamil Nadu and adjoining states. The participants of the workshop were given live demonstrations on the diagnosis of nematode symptoms on infested planting materials and methods to raise nematode-free planting materials.
 
 Project coordinator AICRP (Nematodes) and ICAR Raman K Walia gave an overall view of the extent of nematode spread through horticultural crops at the national level and the necessity to curb it.   vice-chancellor K Ramasamy urged stakeholders to scale-up extension efforts to minimize crop losses due to nematodes, especially during ongoing drought.
 
 
