AMRITSAR: Speculations may be rife that late actor-turned-BJP MP  's widow   would contest bypoll for the   parliamentary seat, lying vacant after his death, but she herself claims she hasn't approached anybody to seek a ticket. Instead, Kavita claims she has been approached by many. Kavita also says she hasn't deserted Gurdaspur and has visited it four times since Khanna's demise on April 27 this year to nurture the constituency. 

 "Many people have approached me saying 'tayari rakho'(be prepared), but no one has said that 'you are the candidate,'" she said. "It's been over 18 years since I have been working with Vinod in the constituency," said Kavita. She said she would again visit Gurdaspur on Friday. "People want to meet me, besides I have an ongoing project 'Pragati Ki Aur' in Batala," she said.
 
 When asked whether the deceased actor's son Akshaye from his first wife, could throw his hat in the ring, she said, , "He has not expressed any desire, but if the party thinks Akshaye is the right candidate, and if he agrees, I will be very happy. The aim should be to ensure that   wins the seat." Kavita added she would continue to work in the constituency irrespective of whether she is a candidate or not. 
 
 Regarding Mumbai-based industrialist leader Sarwan Salaira's name doing rounds in the BJP circles, she said, "Everyone must have an equal chance in democracy but I will go by the party's decision , Vinod Ji was BJP's member, BJP is also my party."
 
 Kavita's key thrust area is solid waste management in the constituency. "I am concentrating on solid waste management which is key to keep the environment and people healthy and once I am elected an MP, I am qualified and experienced enough to take care of the constituency," she said.
 
 Though the date of the bypoll is yet to be announced, probables have already begun lobbying. Congress, which won the assembly elections in Punjab, has much at stake over the bypoll. According to sources,   probables include wife of former   president Partap Singh Bajwa, Charanjit Kaur Bajwa, Ashwani Sekhri, Kanwar Partap Singh Bajwa and Dera Baba Nanak MLA Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa.
 
 Khanna first won from Gurdaspur by trouncing Congress party's Sukhbans Kaur Bhinder by a margin of 1,06,833 votes. In 1999, he defeated Bhinder again by just 1,399 votes. 
 
 In the 2004 general elections, Khanna once again defeated her by 24,983 votes. However, in 2009, Khanna lost to Congress' Partap Singh Bajwa by 8,342 votes. In 2014, Khanna came back defeating Bajwa by 1,36,065 votes to become the Gurdaspur MP for the fourth time.
 
