HYDERABAD: There were fists of fury on streets of Hyderabad on Wednesday after over 200 students launched protests after being denied intermediate hall tickets by   (TSBIE) despite paying fees.

 Board secretary A Ashok confirmed that 244 students of Sri  , Vanasthalipuram, were denied hall tickets as the college brass did not get affiliation, but mopped up big money from admission and examination fees.
 
 Enraged parents sat on a dharna outside the Secretariat and later lodged a complaint with Vanasthalipuram police against the college management.
 
 Protests jolted the government into action, which said students would be allowed to write intermediate advanced supplementary examination at Government Junior College, Hayatnagar. Deputy chief minister Kadiyam Srihari said students would not lose the academic year and can also appear for EAMCET to be held in May .
 
 “If students appear and pass in all subjects in advanced examination to be held in May , they would be given pass certificate like other regular students,“ said TSBIE secretary A Ashok.
 
 The man in the eye of the storm, Vasavi college principal, Seenaiah alias Srinivas, alleged students were denied permission to write exams as he did not pay enough bribe.
 
 Earlier, police booked the Vasavi Junior College management for cheating, criminal breach of trust on the complaint of an intermediate student, Amarjyothy . “The complainant said the college duped her and fellow students by collecting fee without board affiliation,“ said Vanasthalipuram inspector S Murali Krishna. Amarjyothy told police that she paid Rs 9,000 as fee to the college but did not get a  .
 
 Talking to media at the Secretariat, Vasavi college principal, Seenaiah alias Srinivas blamed BIE officials. “Despite applying for name change of college and shifting of campus, officials did not process the application as I did not pay bribe. I hold Board secretary Ashok and controller of examinations, Sushil Kumar, responsible for the plight of students.“ Officials denied the allegations.
 
 A probe revealed two years ago Seenaiah cheated students of   in LB Nagar too.
 
 TSBIE conducted two exams in January this year and since the college did not have affiliation, students did not take practical exam. “The parents could have brought the issue to the notice of TSBIE immediately , but they did not complain till Tuesday,“ deputy CM K Srihari said.
 
