VADODARA: A PhD student of M S University’s Faculty of Pharmacy  , who is developing a formulation that can help heal different kinds of wounds of patients, has been selected for Prime Minister’s fellowship scheme for  

 The scheme is a public-private partnership between Science and Engineering Research Board, an autonomous body under Department of Science and Technology of Government of India and Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) which is aimed at encouraging young result-oriented scholars to take up industry relevant research.
 
 Rathod is pursuing his PhD to develop a formulation which can help heal different kinds of wounds of patients including diabetic wounds, ulcer wounds and burns. “My research is focused on developing formulation out of flower extract and using biomaterials like collagen and hyaluronic acid that can help in wound healing without side effects,” said Rathod, who is pursuing his PhD under guidance of professor Krutika Sawant. 
 
 The formulation that Rathod is developing promises to be commercially viable, patient friendly and provide effective therapy for treatment of wounds. It will be in topical dosage form like hydrogel, spray, dressing which can be directly applied on skin. 
 
 “A recent study estimates that in India, the prevalence rate of chronic wounds is at 4.5 per 1,000 population. The incidence of acute wounds is more than double at 10.5 per 1,000 population. There is an urgent need for treating chronic wounds. Diabetic wounds that do not heal are the most severe type of chronic wounds, affecting millions of people annually,” he said. 
 
 “Presently, there is no product which combines flower extract and biopolymers to heal wounds. The product I am working on will be non-toxic, biocompatible and biodegradable making it safe, effective and stable for patients,” said Rathod. Manjusar   Mil Laboratory Private Limited is supporting the researcher as a partner company under the scheme in which one half of the scholarship comes from the government and second half comes from a partner company. Under the scheme, Rathod will get Rs60,000 as monthly stipend for a period of four years.
 
