PATIALA: The fate of the proposed modern   project in the city still hangs in uncertainty despite the   of   sending a detailed project report (DPR) almost two years ago to the   government.

 Under the proposed project, an estimated Rs 11 crore was to be spent to set up a slaughter house. in the city. While, 60 % of this amount was to be chipped in by the Central government, 40 % was to be borne by the state government. The state government has even allocated one acre of land at Ghalori gate and has even got a special bridge constructed over the seasonal rivulet to make it accessible. 
 
 These measures were initiated after a Supreme Court order which made it mandatory to shift all slaughter houses out of city limits. This project envisaged use of modern technologies to slaughter animals and birds. According to sources the   had chalked out a plan for which the DPR was sent to Union ministry of food processing. However, the project could never take off.
 
 Interestingly, it was during SAD–BJP regime in the state that the Patiala MC had presented a project report before the union government by union minister for food processing Harsimrat Kaur Badal. But, the local PMC never received any funds to start the project.
 
 At present there are around 150 small and big slaughter houses in Patiala besides others operating illegally. It had been proposed that animals and birds would be medically examined by the veterinary doctors. Besides, it would have to properly slaughtering animals so that it does not emanate foul smell. 
 
 Gurpreet Singh Walia, Executive Engineer, PMC said, “The DPR was sent two years back to the state government as well as the centre government but nothing fruitful happened. The grants of the centre government also got lapsed.”
 
 The daily permissible limit for birds including hens and others was extended up to 1500 per day while that of animals including goats, pigs and others was extended up to 150 animals per day. All these birds and animals were supposed to be cut and kept in accordance with the rules and regulations maintained by the Supreme Court, said Walia.
 
