KOLKATA: Chitpore resident   Singh spent a sleepless Tuesday night after watching with horror on TV images of the building that collapsed in a heap of rubble on Indian Mirror Street, claiming two lives. Niranjan has reason to worry . His family are the sole occupants of a building that is in danger of collapsing any moment.

 At first glance, the four-storeyed building on Rabindra Sarani -where Niranjan has been a resident for the last 25 years -looks like a haunted house. The 150year-old structure may not actually be so, but it certainly has ghosts of the past, stories to tell.Kanta Singh, a former resident, died here last May after the firstfloor balcony collapsed under him after a spell of heavy rain.The building had already earned the tag of a `Grade I insecure building' in 2010 from the KMC, and the corporation had asked residents to move out, but they chose to stay back, saying they lacked the means to shift to safer places.
 
 Kanta's death, however, was too real, too big to ignore, and the 20-odd residents could not mus ter the courage to stay there anymore. The only exception was Niranjan, who has nowhere to go.He, his wife and two sons occupy a small room on the third floor.While they know a disaster can strike anytime, it is during the monsoon that they keep their fingers crossed.
 
 “I know there is only a thin line between life and death for my entire family . We pray hard before going to bed each night. But we can't afford to rent a house or flat in the locality,“ Niranjan said, staring listlessly at the portion of the building that looks like it has been eaten away after large sections of each floor collapsed over the last five years.
 
 He has heard of KMC's initiative of pulling down dilapidated buildings in lieu of a promise that the tenants would be accommodated in newly built structures, but he had no idea where to go, or whom to approach for guidance. “I have heard about the civic body's scheme, but no one from KMC has approached us with any proposal,“ he added.
 
 Purnima Kanoi, Singh's neighbour who lives in a narrow la ne ( ) off Rabindra Sarani, has a similar tale.On Tuesday morning, the Kanoi family narrowly escaped when two floors of the four-storey building collapsed during the rain, and large chunks of concrete came crushing down on the ground-floor room where Purnima lives with husband   and daughters   and Pooja.
 
 “I came face-to-face with death yesterday morning. Thank God I am alive and my family is unhurt,“ she said. Purnima, whose husband is an ambulance driver and the sole earning member of the family , said they were not in any position to move out of the unsafe building.
 
 The KMC's building department officials agreed that with most unsafe buildings dotting Rabindra Sarani and the adjacent Pathuriaghata Street and  , they need a special plan to safely evacuate the residents.
 
 Last September, two women had died after being trapped in a collapsed house on Pathuriaghata Street. A man lost his life while walking down Burtolla Street, when a chunk of concrete fell on his head in 2015.
 
