BENGALURU: Just 10 days after hundreds of residents from HSR Layout took to streets and stopped garbage trucks from entering Karnataka Compost Development Corporation (KCDC) plant at the heart of the locality spreading foul smell all around, about 50 residents from HSR Layout, Sector 2 had gathered together on Saturday to make the newly appointed joint commissioner-BBMP from Bommanahalli zone aware of frequent digging of newly laid roads by GAIL and OFC companies.

 The residents pointed out at the rampant digging of roads with or without BBMP’s permission for laying down underground cables following which restoration of road is completely neglected leaving 60% of the streets in Sector2 at a damaged state and in bad shape.
 
 HE Chandrasekhar, general secretary of HSR Layout, Sector 2   (RWA), said: “We have been voicing out against illegal digging of newly laid roads for long and we would like to keep the newly appointed joint commissioner – Veerabhadra Swamy about the issues we face and we work on as there is no proper hand over when a new official is appointed in  .”
 
 “Also, it’s high time that BBMP takes some action regarding indiscriminate damage caused to our streets due to laying down cables. Neither do the companies take responsibility of repairing the damaged part, nor do they work towards clearing off rubbles from the streets. The streets in bad shape pose threat to seniors and children and the rubbles of mud occupying half the street leads to terrible traffic congestion at peak hours,” he added.
 
 Srikanth Karapanahalli, another member of RWA, said: “Since the last 7-8 years, none of the roads have been asphalted and the potholes have not been repaired in some zones. Also, de-silting of open and storm water drains have not been done since several years and if not done prior to rainy season, the houses in HSR layout will once again get flooded during rains.”
 
 “All the seven parks in sector 2 are in state of horror, posing safety threats to children and crying for help due to no maintenance. However, it has been hard to get assistance of BBMP and horticulture department towards maintenance of parks with residents spending lakhs of money to renovate them after the civic bodies failed to address the issue,” he added.
 
 Curbing stray dogs and pigs menace, maintaining the vacant sites in the area most of which have turned into illegal dumping sites now, removing encroachments from roads and sidewalks, updating change of address in revenue records, developing a committee to look after the playground as per guidelines, removing hoardings and illegal posters and preventing over-commercialisation of sub-lanes in the layout were some of the major demands of the residents from the new BBMP joint commissioner.
 
 Sathish Reddy, Member of Legislative Assembly (MLA) at Bommanahalli zone who was present along with Veerabhadra Swamy and  , corporator at ward number 174, said: “We will try and address most of these issues within six months and BBMP engineers to immediately stop frequent digging of newly laid roads in the area.”
 
 He instructed the BBMP officials to look into management of parks and de-silting of storm water drains to avoid water logging during rains.
 
