BAGESHWAR: Days after a senior official of Indian Oil Corporation died at Panpatia glacier in Rudraprayag district during a trek from Badrinath to Kedarnath, a young trekker from Chhattisgarh was reported missing while on a trek to the Pindari and Sundardhunga glaciers in Bageshwar district of Kumaon. Identified as Vagish Chandrakar, a 28-year-old restaurateur from Raipur, he had trekked to Pindari glacier last month.   Chandrakar spoke to his family last on September 3, when he told them that he would be trekking towards Pindari and Kafni glaciers in Bageshwar district. His family has not been able to contact him since then.    A rescue team constituted by the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) and revenue police left in search of the missing trekker on Sunday after two of his relatives reached Bageshwar and pleaded authorities for help.    “We got to know about Chandrakar’s disappearance on Friday only when his relatives told us. We sent a five-member rescue team of revenue police and SDRF towards Pindari. Some villagers from Khati village told this team that they had seen Vagish going towards the Sundardhunga trek on September 7,” Kapkot sub-divisional magistrate Ravindra Bisht told TOI. “On Sunday, we have sent another 11-member team to Sundardhunga in search of Vagish. It also includes two members of his family. We hope this team will find him.”    “Pindari, Kafni and Sundardhunga are all famous for the trek in Pindari valley. As people of Khati village are saying that Vagish was seen moving towards Sundardhunga, there could be two dangers. One, the flow of Pindari river is quite fast, in which it is very difficult to survive. And the other danger is from the bears,” said Keshav Bhatt, an adventure-loving trekker who is familiar with the area.    “We should be hoping that Vagish has stopped with some Anvaal (Himalayan shepherd) in bugyals (meadows) of Sundardhunga and is enjoying the nature of the higher Himalayas. Because his relatives say that the Vagish is a nature lover and he is very fond of travelling,” Bhatt said.     “We are getting positive leads and SDRF and revenue police are doing their best to find out Vagish. So we are hoping we will find him safe soon,” Priyank Patel, Vagish’s brother-in-law, said.