PANAJI: Despite getting a simple majority in 2012, BJP has not been able to deliver in Goa,   ‘Sudin’ Dhavalikar told TOI. Now, post the 2017 polls, let other parties help MGP form the government and watch it deliver, he said. Dhavalikar also spoke about defence minister Manohar Parrikar’s inability to get a full five-year term in the CM’s chair whenever he has got the post, the MGP’s decision to not touch the medium-of-instruction issue during the 2017 polls and Parrikar firing from CM Laxmikant Parsekar’s shoulders. Excerpts:

 
 
 You will be surprised. We are doing very well. The groundswell of support is in our favour. It is good that we are not in alliance with BJP. They are trailing. We would have faced the same music from the people.
 
 
 
 
 They will not cross double digits.
 
 
 
 Yes, they poached the candidates. They think they can do so as they are in power (at the Centre). They might even poach our MLAs after the polls. They are showing signs of desperation to retain power.
 
 
 
 Yes, we’ll decide that later. We have to think of the future of Goa in the long term. At this stage, I don’t want to touch that issue. Supreme Court has also said so. Not to use it in the elections. After we form the government, we’ll have threadbare discussion on the issue and decide accordingly.
 
 
 
 
 If anyone wants us, they should support us.
 
 
 
 
 It can’t be (BJP will not be close to forming the government). They can join us.
 
 
 
 No, not at this stage.
 
 
 
 
 Why should we? All these years, except once, we supported BJP. This time, they should support us. Let them reciprocate. One observation. Parrikar doesn’t have luck to give a stable government for five continous years. None of his terms have gone beyond two-and-half to three years. He first became CM in October 2000. When he realized that his government would fall, he dissolved the house in February 2002. Parrikar became CM again in June 2002, but lost power due to the split in the BJP in early 2005. BJP got a good mandate in 2012, but then he couldn’t complete the full term due to circumstances as he was elevated to the Union cabinet.
 
 
 
 
 You tell me. When was there stability except the current term. As mentioned above, there was so much instability that Parrikar dissolved the assembly in 2002. In his second term too, it was an unstable government which ultimately collapsed under its own weight. We would have done wonders if we were to get such a mandate of 21 seats. BJP got 21 seats in 2012 and MGP got three and there were others. So despite the majority and stability, they couldn’t deliver.
 
 
 
 
 There were many factors. There was strong resentment against them. The undercurrents were clear. There was arrogance. The approach of the leaders would change based on what their workers tell them. They go by what their karyakartas tell them. Except for me, the others in the party didn’t get proper attention from them. It won’t be wrong to say that it was like step-motherly treatment. Several projects were given to GSIDC, when PWD could have handled them well and that too at a lower cost. Even funds were not released in time.
 
 
 
 He couldn’t run the administration. In his own admission, he has said that he took a long time to learn. He was being dictated from Delhi by the defence minister. Yes, Parrikar used to fire from his shoulders. We will definitely not join hands with BJP to form the government if Parsekar is to be the CM.
 
 
 
 
 MGP during its 17-year rule brought in virtually revolutionary measures to protect the common man. Land to the Tiller Act, Tenancy Act were given by Goa’s first CM Bahusabheb Bandodkar. He promoted education in a big way. Brought in industrial growth – Birla’s Zuari, MPT, shipyard, Ciba, Sanjeevani sugar factory and MRF, among others. We will strive to continue in the direction given by Bahusaheb and provide holistic development to the people of Goa.
 
