KOCHI: Most of the hospitals run by   in the state have stayed away from setting up IVF and   facilities due to religious considerations and the debate about the sanctity of marriage and their reservations on using a donor sperm or egg.

 “In Christian morality, surrogacy is not permitted though IVF treatment using the sperm and egg of husband and wife is allowed. However, we don't allow IVF treatment using donor sperm or egg.Due to this, there are many restrictions by the   when it comes to IVF treatment,“ said Jubilee Mission Medical College and Research Institute secretary  .
 
 Also another issue is of when the life begins? Does life begin in the uterus after the embryo is implanted or outside when the embryo is formed? “When you go for IVF treatment, then more embryos are obtained. But only two or three embryos will be placed inside the uterus for IVF. Rest of them can be frozen but if a patient is unable to pay for the same, it is discarded. This is not acceptable by Catholic Church,“ said an infertility specialist.
 
 “Catholic hospitals have not set up IVF centres as they don't want to encourage unethical practices that exploit patients.Also for us, life starts with the embryo and that is the accepted thought pattern,“ said director of Lisie Hospital Fr Thomas Vaikathuparambil.
 
 Sources said that most Catholic hospitals have policies on infertility treatments. The fundamental rule is that it can be only given to a married couple and spouses should conceive naturally.Making it clear that infertility treatments are not a substitute, the policy states that no therapy that destroys human embryos should be allowed. Heterologous fertilization (that is using donor egg or sperm) should be avoided as it is contrary to the convictions on marriage and dignity of parents and child. Also homologous artificial fertilization is prohibited since it separates procreation from the marital act of love between spouses.
 
 The policy also prohibits surrogacy as it belittles the dignity of women, especially the poor.
 
