MUMBAI: Two women from Thane and Mumbra became the latest victims of the   influenza virus to succumb to the complications of the disease at the BMC-run   in Chinchpokli, the civic officials said. With these deaths, the count of lives that were lost to the respiratory infection in the city this week alone has gone to three. 

 The state wide toll for H1N1 (swine flu) has already crossed 210 with at least 14 patients currently being on ventilator across districts. Mumbai hospitals have recorded five deaths so far, of which two cases were from outside the city.
 
 One of the two victims, the Thane resident, was a 36-year-old woman with a known history of diabetes since the past eight years. According to a civic report, she went to at least four hospitals before dying of the disease on Tuesday. Her initial symptoms were of cough, shortness of breath, fever and sore throat but she received the first dose of oseltamivir only after eight days of the onset of symptoms. Doctors say the antiviral is the most effective when administered within the first 48hours.
 
 The deceased had first sought treatment from a private physician before approaching a private hospital in Bhandup and later another hospital in Mulund. From the Mulund hospital she was again referred to Rajawadi in Ghatkopar and was finally sent to Kasturba Hospital. She was administered oseltamivir at Kasturba Hospital by which time her condition had significantly deteriorated. A doctor from the hospital said that she had developed pneumonia and ultimately succumbed to acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) on Tuesday.
 
 The second casualty of the week was a 56-year-old Mumbra who too had an underlying health condition. She had been a patient of hypertension for the past 15 years and was recently diagnosed with diabetes. She too presented with similar symptoms of fever, cough and breathlessness since May 9. After being treated at Thane’s Prime Criticare Hospital for three days she was shifted to the Kasturba Hospital, where she died on Monday. She however had received Tamiflu at the first hospital itself. She too had developed acute respiratory distress syndrome along with pneumonia in the end.
 
 State health officials have said that like most previous years, more than 50% of the swine flu deaths have been witnessed in patients with underlying health conditions. Dr Satish Pawar, director of health services, had previously said that vaccines could be made available for patients with pre-existing health ailments. The state has already asked for 25000 doses of the seasonal vaccine from the centre, which is likely to arrive by the end of the month. 
 
 
