KHARAGPUR: Nearly 25 years ago, he was here as a student, pursuing a  . On Thursday, he went back to his   as an old boy... and CEO of  .

  left IIT Kharagpur in 1993. When he came back, students staying at the B wing on the third floor of Nehru Hall, Pichai’s hostel, relived the Google CEO’s college days as he remembered his “wingies” (wing mates) and visited his old room: room B 308.
 
 Pichai arrived at the hostel on Thursday to find the eight residents of the wing waiting for him. The student who now lives in his old room, however, was still not back from vacation. “Nehru ka tempo high hai,” the boarders cheered. As a former boarder of the hostel, the words must have been familiar. He went up to the third floor, where Harsheel Singh from room B 309, along with seven other wing mates, met him in front of his old room.
 
 “He asked us what we are studying. I said I’m in the fifth year of the dual degree programme in biotechnology. He then joked with us that he remembered the innumerable times he had a shattered window pane, the cricket pitch being right behind the B block. We told him that it doesn’t happen much now, as there is a cricket net,” Harsheel said.
 
 Pichai told them that he is an avid cricket fan, and would often go to play matches.
 
 The famous Nehruite (incidentally, Delhi CM   is also one) then immediately went inside his former room, where photographers took pictures. “Some of his friends and colleagues who accompanied him to the campus joked that he was overdressed, compared with other hostel residents,” said B313 resident Aditya Soni.
 
 Pichai then went to the Nehru Hall library where, by his own admission, he spent many a sleepless night. The silver medal winner from the 1993 batch looked around and left to see the “catwalk”, a passage which every Kgp-ian cherishes as a hangout zone, and which connects the B block with C block. Pichai went and stood on the path for a while, cherishing fond memories of the days of standing there, watching cricket games on the ground below.
 
 Pichai then insisted that he be taken to the mess hall, where he met workers and even Pradeep Gupta, the stationery store owner from his time. Later, when asked about hostel food, he joked how, back in his time, students used to wage bets every day on whether it was dal or sambar being served. “They were indistinguishable,” he laughed. “But they were great folks, who fed us for four years,” he said.
 
 At the session with students, sharing his journey to becoming a CEO, he said: “There are 60,000 people at Google. To lead the company towards success, I always relied on other strong leaders. Learning to let go and to empower others is essential. One should always try to remove roadblocks so that other people can achieve success. Promoting teamwork is essential to become successful.”
 
 The alumnus of two illustrious institutions — IIT and later,   — said the road to success was long and difficult. “Entering an elite institute will not necessarily guarantee success. Take up something which you enjoy doing,” he advised.
 
 Pichai also said that he believed it was more important to work in the real world, rather than spend one’s time with just books. “Be well-rounded, do different things, follow passions, take risks, get real-world experience and always value creativity,” was his mantra.
 
 “Setbacks don’t matter. Keep your dreams alive. How life plays up is entirely on you, and no one else can decide.”
 
 When a student asked when he decided to become a distinguished alumnus and not just remain an alumnus, Pichai burst out laughing. “One doesn’t decide,” he said. “I always wanted to work on computing so that it meets [the needs of] a lot of users. The change started there.”
 
 When asked where he saw himself in 10 years, pat came the reply: “I’ve always wanted to innovate and devise products which benefit billions. Maybe I shall keep doing it.”
 
 A student asked him how he could replace Pichai at Google. “Be careful what you wish for,” he smiled. “Maybe we can discuss this over a cup of chaai.”
 
 Waving to the hundreds of students who patiently stood listening to him, the Google CEO, as he boarded the bus to leave, made a promise to the IIT-Kgp director and his teacher Partha Pratim Chakrabarti. “I shall return,” he logged off.
 
 
