HYDERABAD:   had literally controlled the streetlights in Hyderabad and   of bygone era. The year was 1921. The university had completed just three years of its existence. A man from OU's   would pedal all the way to   office in Marredpally from what is now Ameerpet to hand over a few papers and charts to the executive engineer there. Then he would proceed to King Kothi to submit more documents. 

 These were the papers and charts that gave the government knowledge about the sunrise and sunset, moonrise and moonset, the length of the lunar month and the phases of the moon. Based on the information provided by the observatory, streetlights (lanterns hung from poles) were switched on and off. 
 
 OU's cosmic data not only helped people moving in the night, but saved money for the Nizam and the British governments in Hyderabad and Secunderabad respectively through optimum conservation of energy/fuel. The university also shared lunar and solar information based on which Hindu and Muslim calendars were prepared and festival dates fixed. 
 
 According to an official document submitted by the OU registrar to the Nizam government in 1922, "the times of sunset and moonrise for 1921 were furnished to the Cantonment executive engineer, Secunderabad, for the preparation of street-lighting time table. Weekly statements of certain meteorological information continue to be supplied to Cantonment executive engineer of Nizam's government".
 
 The observatory was then headed by TP Bhaskaran, who held an MA degree. Osmania University regularly shared its astronomical data with the University Observatory, Oxford. The data of Osmania University was compared with those obtained from other observatories around the world. Any slight variation in the value of scale constants of stellar photographs with the brightness of stars in reference was discussed during scientific conferences. The Nizam spent 28,220 (equivalent to 4.54 crore in today's value) for the year 1920-21 on the observatory. A century later, the observatory hardly gets any financial support. 
 
