LUCKNOW: Eight   attacked the house of a property dealer, took the   and fled with cash and jewellery worth lakhs in Vivek Khand,  , on early Monday. The robbers took Rs 2.50 lakh and jewellery worth Rs 20 lakh, said police.

 The robbers, who wore masks, struck at 3/38 in Vivek Khand. The two-storey house belongs to Chaman Lal Diwakar, who stays with his wife Sunita and their four children, Komal, Priya, Kajal and Piyush.
 
 Chamanlal told police that the family was asleep when around 2.30am on Monday when eight masked men holding firearms and knives barged into the house.
 
 “The robbers scaled boundary of the house for entry. They trained guns on us and asked us to stay in the bed. They assaulted me when I tried to resist them,” Chamanlal said, adding, “The robbers tied me with a string and held my wife Sunita at gunpoint and took her to search for areas stashed with cash and jewellery.”
 
 Kajal and Piyush, who were sleeping in another room on the ground floor, too were held hostage. Chamanlal informed police on Dial 100 after the robbers fled.
 
 Komal and Priya, who were studying in their room on the first floor, however, did not come to know about the incident as AC was on. Priya is pursuing LLB while Komal is preparing for banking competitions.
 
 ASP north Anurag Vats said they suspect the role of an insider as the robbers seemed familiar with th house. “We are interrogating the domestic help who comes to the house in the morning and leaves by evening. The robbers fled with the mobile phones of the family members,” Vats told TOI.
 
 Circle officer, Gomtinagar, Satyasen Yadav said an organised gang, which escapes to other districts after executing robberies in the city, could be involved in the crime.
 
 Inspector, Gomtinagar, Vijay Mal Yadav said a case under   has been registered. 
 
 Major Dacoities In Gomtinagar 
 
 2017
 
 March 25: 6 armed robbers take an associate professor and his wife hostage in Chinhat; flee with cash and valuables 
 
 Feb 4: STF nabs 10 persons, miscreants including a former informer, working with Intelligence Bureau and IT department, for attempting dacoity at the house of a prominent businessman in Gomtinagar
 
 2016
 
 Aug 28: House of DFO Ashok Kumar Shukla, Bawariya gang barged in and looted Rs 25,000 cash other valuables.
 
 May 27 : Engineer Abhay Singh, a government engineer and his aide held hostage by miscreants in broad daylight and house was   by gang armed with crowbars and sticks in Chinhat.
 
 
