PATNA:   will attend the   in Delhi on Monday. The meeting of is  , including Bihar, has been convened by   following the killing of 25   (CRPF) personnel in Sukma district of Chhatisgarh a fortnight back.
 
  Six among the 25 personnel who were killed in the encounter with suspected CPI (Maoist) in Sukma were from Bihar.
  
  Sources in chief minister’s office said Nitish would participate in the meeting as the Maoist problem is equally serious in Bihar. Other than Bihar, chief ministers of Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Odisha, West Bengal, Maharashtra, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh have also been invited for the meeting.
  
  Police sources said the meeting would focus on chalking a strong anti-Maoist strategy to fight the rebels, who often adopt guerrilla tactics while taking cover in dense forests.
  
  “It is expected that district magistrates and superintendents of police of 35 of the worst Maoist-hit districts from the eight states, along with senior officials of intelligence agencies and central armed police forces will also attend the meeting,” a source said and added that most of the carnages have taken place in 35 out of the 68 top Maoist-hit districts in the country.
  
  The CMs and officers will also discuss the possibilities of revamping and strengthening intelligence gathering mechanism, analysis of ongoing operations and better coordination between neighbouring states. “Way to improve coordination between central armed police forces and state police, which is often a weak link, will be discussed. We also expect all the CMs and top officials will try and find out some way to minimize loss of human lives (men in uniform and civilians) in anti-Maoist operation,” said a source.
  
  It is expected that the CMs will also discuss ways to expedite development activities, especially construction of roads in areas dominated by the rebels. “In Bihar, at least one dozen road and bridge projects worth over Rs1,000 crore are pending in Left wing extremists-dominated areas for years,” said a source.
