Gurgaon: High drama prevailed outside   station around 4pm on Monday following an altercation between a woman driving her car and the traffic police over issuance of a challan for talking on the phone while driving. A huge crowd gathered to observe their fight, leading to a jam.

 Traffic cops claimed they stopped the woman when they saw her talking on her phone while driving her Swift Dzire near the Sikanderpur U-turn. Head constable   asked for her papers, but the woman allegedly refused and started misbehaving.
 
 According to Rajbir’s complaint, which was registered as an FIR, a scuffle started when the woman’s husband emerged from the car, and Rajbir “was pushed and fell on the rear windscreen, resulting in it getting broken, and him hurting his hand”. The woman, Aarti, though had a different story to tell. She claimed she was on her way from Metropolitan Mall, when she received a call. As she took it, she was stopped by the traffic police. She requested the police to let her go, as her kids, who were sitting in the backseat, were unwell. She started her car, but the cop, in an attempt to stop her, smashed the rear windscreen with his hands, hurting her kids in the process.
 
 ACP (traffic) Mamta Kharb, who reached the spot a while later, said Aarti showed her video clips of the scuffle. Kharb told TOI she asked Aarti to submit them as evidence with her counter-FIR. “By then, she and her husband were sitting on the road in protest, and had to be removed,” Kharb said. Rajbir’s FIR was filed under sections 186, 323, 332, 34, 353, while that by Aarti was filed under sections 323, 427 and 506 of IPC. Aarti’s husband Puneet Prakash said the cops insisted they pay cash to get released, and snatched the car key, despite his asking for a challan. “We were desperate, as we had to take our kids to hospital, but when we tried to leave, one cop smashed the rear windscreen injuring our kids, and snatched our car key,” said Prakash. He added the cops escaped as soon as the ACP arrived.
 
