NEW DELHI: The Centre has asked the chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir to adopt a development narrative by ensuring proper redressal of civic and power failure issues, and pipe down the rhetoric on stone pelting which, it feels, is now restricted to just five areas of the state. Top officials at the Centre said recent reports from intelligence agencies had stated that stone pelting incidents were limited to just five areas and there was paucity of funds and weapons among terrorists.
 
  “We have Intelligence reports that show that instances of stone pelting have come down but the media exaggerates a lot. Also, it is done usually only on Fridays for about an hour. The unrest being shown is much more than what it is. Supply of weapons has been cut off completely and even during recent instances of bank robberies in the Valley, there have been attempts to rob the security guards of guns,” said a top official.
  
  The officials added that the central government was constantly monitoring the intelligence reports that stated that in 12 incidents over the past two months, stone pelting was restricted to just five places, specifically Phulwama and Anantnag.
  
  Prime Minister   was learnt to have telephoned   to ask her about the flooding in Srinagar which, the Centre felt, could have been dealt with properly.
  
  “Top officials at the Centre are quite disappointed that the drainage systems have still not been fixed and the administration is in a mess despite relief reaching on time. The state faced one of the worst floods in 2014. These measures should have been taken long back,” a top official said.
  
  A   leader also said that the J&K government had been asked to initiate talks with separatists but to leave the Centre out of the move. The BJP had, on Saturday, ruled out any possibility of talks with Kashmiri separatists but the state government should initiate talks, the leader said. Last week, Mehbooba met the prime minister and Union home minister   and assured that the situation in Kashmir would improve in 2-3 months.
  
  BJP general secretary   met Mehbooba Mufti at her Fairview residence here on Sunday.
  
  The PDP-BJP coalition government in the state has come under criticism for its inability to control violence which has manifested even in street protests by school and college students, including girls.
  
  Eleven civilians were killed over the past one month amid firing by the forces on demonstrators. Meanwhile, the Opposition Congress and National Conference have been demanding that Mehbooba step down and make way for governor’s rule in the state for restoration of peace. 
