GANDHINAGAR: To achieve its tall target of winning 151 of the 182 assembly seats in the 2017 elections, the state BJP, on instructions from Delhi, has started poaching low profile but locally powerful MLAs or district leaders who the   is considering for tickets. Ahead of the 2012 assembly elections and 2014   elections, the   poached lots of individually-strong Congress leaders. Six of the sitting BJP MPs joined BJP before the 2014 Lok Sabha elections. Vitthal Radadiya, Poonam Madam, Devusinh Chauhan, Devij Fathepara, Lalisinh Vadodiya, Prabhu Vasava joined BJP from Congress. 

 Gujarat cabinet minister Jayesh Radadia and minister of state (MoS) Jasa Barad also joined the BJP just before the 2014 elections. Several sitting MLAs and party office bearers had joined ahead of the last elections. 
 
 Congress heavyweight Narhari Amin, Girish Parmar, Bavku Unghad (sitting MLA) and several sitting Congress MLAs had joined the BJP before the 2012 assembly election or 2014 Lok Sabha election. 
 
 A top BJP leader privy to the ongoing poaching operation, on being assured anonymity, said: “As a part of this strategy, the party had earlier also taken several Congress leaders into the BJP. There are at least three dozen Congress MLAs who have had more than two consecutive terms and still a chance of winning in 2017 because of their local influence. There are several senior Congress MLAs in the tribal areas, north Gujarat, central Gujarat and parts of Saurashtra who have better chances of winning in 2017. As part of this strategy, we may induct them into the BJP shortly.
 
 Some 10 sitting MLAs and other senior state or party-level leaders are in direct touch and expressed a desire to join the BJP. After the debacle in Uttar Pradesh and other states, several Congress leaders who were not willing to join the BJP are also now coming forward. BJP president Amit Shah may meet a few key Congress MLAs and office bearers before the end of March. One or two very prominent leaders may also leave the Congress for the BJP in the coming days.’’
 
 The chief minister’s office (CMO) and three top BJP leaders are directly dealing with likely turncoats from the Congress. Gujarat Congress president Bharatsinh Solanki, when contacted for comment, said: “BJP is trying such propaganda to divert the public attention. At least 15 BJP MLAs are in touch with us and are willing to join the Congress. BJP has sensed defeat so it is trying these tactics.”
 
