MUMBAI: Mumbaikars woke up to a pleasantly cold morning on Wednesday as minimum temperatures dipped to 14.4 degree Celsius, at least in the suburbs. This is the season’s lowest minimum temperature recorded so far, say weathermen.

 On Wednesday, the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD)’s   observatory recorded a minimum temperature of 14.4 degree Celsius—2.7 degrees below normal. Meanwhile, minimum temperature recorded by IMD’s Colaba observatory was 19.7 degrees, just 0.2 degrees below normal. Weathermen say minimum temperatures are expected to remain in this range over the next few days. 
 
 V K Rajeev of   said one of the reasons for the dip is winds blowing in from colder regions. “However, in the interior parts of Maharashtra, minimum temperatures have not been very low. Therefore, we do not expect any further drop in temperatures,” said Rajeev. According to IMD, minimum temperatures recorded on Wednesday in other parts of Maharashtra such as Ratnagiri and Alibaug stood at 17 degrees and in Dahanu at 16 degrees. In Nashik, the minimum was 8 degrees and in Malegaon and Jalgaon, 9 degrees.
 
 King’s Circle resident Nikhil Desai said mornings and nights have become colder. “Since the beginning of  ,   has been very pleasant. However, unlike last year, when it got very chilly in December, this year minimum temperatures have not been very low,” said Desai. 
 
 Maximum temperatures, on the other hand, remained above normal. IMD’s Colaba observatory recorded 33.4 degrees or 2.9 degrees above normal and   32.5 degrees or 1.5 degrees above normal. 
 
 Meanwhile, pollution levels remained in the poor category. According to System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), Mumbai recorded an air quality index (AQI) of 268 on Wednesday evening. An AQI between 200 and 300 is considered “poor” and people with heart or lung diseases, older adults and children should reduce prolonged or heavy exertion. Navi Mumbai, Andheri and Mazgaon were among the most polluted with an AQI of 327, 316 and 308, respectively. 
 
 
