KOLKATA: For any  , traversing more than 27,000km in 133 days is a difficult feat to achieve. But for  , the value and significance of this trip goes beyond numbers.

 A fertilizer manufacturer by profession and nature lover by heart, this 40-year-old   resident thinks this journey covering 29 states and five union territories is a “celebration of life”, where he not only came close to the wildlife and nature but also managed to spread awareness about saving the environment.
 
 “I started on October 3, 2016, and touched every state capital to spread awareness about protecting the nature, including the wildlife, forests, rivers and lakes. Article 51A (g) of the Constitution sets out the fundamental duties of every Indian citizen with regard to our natural environment; to protect and improve it. How many citizens are aware of this? Hence, my journey,” says Das, who returned home on February 13. In his entire journey, he has covered 27,138km.
 
 “I wanted to reach mostly to those living close to the forest and encounter wildlife regularly. And the kids there impressed me the most. In my entire trip, I visited more than 2000 schools,” says Das. The only break he had to opt for during the journey — a three-day rest — was when he met with a minor accident at Andhra Pradesh’s Gandikota while trying to save a mongoose that came in his bike’s way.
 
 How did he fund the trip? “30% came from my personal savings and the rest from my social media friends. Central wildlife agencies and the state forest departments helped with logistics. A tent and bag manufacturing firm provided me the required gears,” he adds.
 
 So, what’s his takeaway from the journey? “A Class-VI student in a Mount Abu school promised me that he would never venture into the woods to hunt Indian hares. That’s the biggest takeaway from my trip,” he says.
 
 Now, busy converting food waste into bio-fertiliser at his home, Das has already started planning his next journey — crisscrossing 13 countries where tigers are still found in the wild. 
 
 
