CHENNAI: In a significant ruling,   has held that the voluntary retirement scheme (VRS) package, equal to salary for 72 months, paid to each of the Ooty’s Hindustan Photo Film (HPF) Manufacturing Company Limited is in the nature of compensation and hence no   should be levied on them. On their part, those employees who accept the severance package shall vacate and hand over vacant possession of the quarters within one month from the date on which they receive the monetary benefits, the court said.

 Justice T S Sivagnanam, concurring with the submissions of senior counsel R Vaigai, said: “The monetary benefit, which will accrue to the employees, is in the nature of compensation, which is pursuant to a decision taken by the government of India specifically for the employees of HPF. Therefore, the amount would be exempted from income tax in terms of the first proviso under Section 10(10B) of the IT Act. Therefore, the provisions of the Section 10(10B) of the Income Tax Act, 1961 are attracted and accordingly, the same shall not fall within the definition of income, while computing the total income of concerned employee and income tax cannot be deducted from the severance package paid to the employees of HPF.”
 
 Quick to realise that the ruling could set the trend for several other public sector undertakings preparing similar severance packages for their own employees, counsel representing the Centre have said the government of India would appeal against the ruling in the Supreme Court.
 
 Once a giant enjoying a monopoly in X-ray films market, HPF became a white elephant for the Centre since 1987 when its staff had either no or little work in the factory. A VRS was readied by the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA), which approved a proposal for providing non-plan budgetary support of Rs 181.54 crore for voluntary retirement at the 2007 notional pay scale.
 
 The Hindustan Photo Film Workers' Welfare Centre questioned the VRS terming it as unfair and illegal. It sought payment of 72 months’ salary on 2007 payscale to each employee, arrests, non-deduction of income tax on the severance package, special performance allowance, adjustable advance paid to employees and permission for the employees to occupy the staff quarters till May 1, 2016 at the same rate of rent. Contentious issues boiled down to 72 months’ salary as severance package instead of 60 months, exemption from income tax and no eviction from the quarters.
 
 Justice Sivagnanam, partly allowing the pleas and rejecting the claim of workers to declare the VRS notification and circular as illegal and unconstitutional, said there was no compulsion to accept the package. Pointing out that no one who refused the package was before the court, he said, all these cases challenge the notification but “the net effect is all employees want to leave the organisation, but they seek for better terms.”
 
 He then held that no income tax was recoverable from the severance package, and added that the amount deducted as income tax should be disbursed to the employees concerned by authorities.
 
 
