Nagpur: The stage was left vacant, except for a chair, a table or a bench. This stage, and a time limit of ten minutes was all the performers of the night had to impress the audience. Sugar and Spice Round 6, a part of Stagecraft theatre’s ‘adda’, was held at Rajiv Gandhi National Institute of Intellectual Property Management (RGNIIPM) auditorium on Sunday. It is a concept by Stagecraft to experiment with fresh talent and give new writers and actors a chance.

 Ten plays spanning ten minutes each — ‘You’re on hold!’, ‘Let it go’, ‘The edge of teen’, ‘Kuchh pal’, ‘Infinite’, ‘Sab pagal ho’, ‘Haan mein jhooth bolti hoon’, ‘Batwara’, ‘Who died first’ and ‘Thank god’ — were staged in this session of the adda. “Each time, we select ten scripts and members of our group direct them for amateur actors who perform on stage probably for the first time. We help with props and technicals,” explains Vikash Khurana, playwright and founder of Stagecraft.
 
 Unlike other sessions, this ‘adda’ had a theme — monologues. Diverse ideas such as the teen phase, addiction to mobile phones, madness, India-Pakistan partition, self-motivation and confessions were used to base plays. Some of the plays, either in Hindi or English, were comedy, tragic, reflective and serious. The plays evoked applaud from the audience, and some acts had them in splits. “My involvement in these sessions is zero because if I want anything to be in a particular way, I may as well direct myself. I started this initiative in 2013 to promote innovation and experimentation. This way, we create a bank of talented people who are potential crew for my future productions,” says Khurana. 
 
 Sugar and Spice is a bin-annual initiative. Other than this, ‘Canvas’ encourages four writers to showcase their 30 minute plays. Khurana will soon be starting ‘Studio’ where musicians will be encouraged to compose original folk, classical or semi-classical tunes for use in theatre productions. Speaking of youth’s interest in theatre, Khurana adds that youth’s involvement in theatre has seen phenomenal increase. “We see such bright boys and girls coming in, I’m amazed at what I see,” he adds.
 
 
