NEW DELHI: Delhi ministers undertook 24 foreign tours without seeking the approval of the lieutenant governor, as was the practice till the   formed the government, the   has noted in its report.

 The panel said that contrary to the state government's contention that the intervention of the LG had caused work to suffer, the elected government, in fact, had been ignoring rules requiring the governor's clearance for many decisions, like ministers going abroad.
 
 The committee members reasoned that members of legislative assemblies represented their constituencies, but those MLAs who assumed posts as ministers had the whole territory of Delhi as their area of responsibili ty and work. But any activity that took them out of Delhi, not being their area of work, needed the approval of the governor, the panel felt.
 
 “When the travel is outside India, an elaborate procedure of taking political clearances, etc. is required and was put in practice in the past. However, in all these listed cases this past practice was given a go-by for rea sons unknown and foreign travels were undertaken,“ the report declared.
 
 Of the 24 trips, four were led by deputy CM   and three by minister Satyender Jain. Apart from study programmes, trips were taken to attend worldlevel events, art festivals, tourism trade fair and even a private tour. The report was clear that in all these ca ses, sanction could have been accorded only after examining the required clearances and determining whether the purpose of travel was justified.
 
 The panel further found that while approved tours could entail only the entitled class of travel, this had not “been adhered to and ineligible persons were included as a part of the delegation on government expenses“. The report cited the amount of Rs 1,43,729 paid to   vice-chairman   for his trip to Manchester, UK. Most of the trips were taken for longor short-term training and study programmes under different departments.
 
 The report was also critical of government officials going abroad without the permission of the LG, which in their case is mandatory.
 
