CHANDIGARH: At a time when political parties in the election fray in Punjab have been wooing ex-servicemen, the defence community is hoping that politicians would at least keep their promise to reduce taxes levied on liquor sold at CSD canteens in the state.

 Compared to neighbouring Haryana and capital Chandigarh, CSDs in Punjab sell liquor for the highest price because of the taxes. While a bottle of Old Monk costs Rs 99 in Haryana and Rs 116 in Chandigarh, it is priced at Rs 152 in Punjab. Overall, prices of liquor sold at   (CSD) outlets in Punjab are 40-50 % higher than in Haryana and Chandigarh.
 
 Veterans make up 3 lakh of the 1.97 crore voters in Punjab. Besides, thousands of soldiers and officers are deployed in the 21 Army cantonments in Punjab. Earlier too, ex-servicemen’s welfare bodies have written to   to seek reduction of tax on liquor.
 
 In their manifestos for the February 4 assembly elections in the state, almost every major party has promised to reduce taxes on CSD items. The Congress manifesto has categorically promised to bring the rates of CSD items on a par with that of neigbouring states.   (AAP) has also announced to exempt CSD items from taxations if voted to power. The SAD-BJP alliance, which has been ruling the state for 10 years, has also promised to reduce tax.
 
 However, ex-servicemen said the alliance had increased taxes on CSD items manifold during their tenure.
 
 According to veterans, the liquor were available for a reasonable price at CSD canteens only during the tenure of former chief minister Captain  , who is the Congress’s CM face. Though Amarinder had reduced tax on liquor sold at CSD canteens, his government reintroduced a higher tax in the last year.
 
 Questioning the Punjab government’s intentions, Lieutenant Colonel S S Sohi (retired), president of a Mohali-based NGO working for ex-servicemen, said certain items like liquor through CSD were “privileges” of the defence fraternity. “But, by imposing tax on such things, the government has brought soldiers on a par with civilians and completely ignored the hardships they have suffered and sacrifices they have made in the nation’s service. We hope political parties would keep their promises of reducing tax on CSD items,” Sohi added.
 
 A retired officer is entitled to buy to 10 bottles (whisky and rum) of liquor, a junior commissioned officer is entitled to six bottles, and a non-commissioner officer and a jawan is entitled to buy four bottles on subsidized rates.
 
