NAGPUR: In order to urge aspiring students to hone their skills and grab job opportunities, a Youth Empowerment Summit was organized by   in collaboration with   (ECPA) and   at Dr Vasantrao Deshpande Hall on Sunday. 

 “The employment market is pyramidal in nature where you have a large number of job seekers at the bottom of the structure but only a few proficient ones spearhead to the top,” said municipal commissioner   while delivering a keynote address on ‘Adaptability, a mantra for success.’
 
 Many students from Vidarbha attended the summit which focused on expertise development for jobs and entrepreneurship. According to Hardikar, a trained and qualified person can fail at his job due to non-adaptive attitude towards new environment and trends. He said that less jobs being available in our country for the youth is a fallacy. “There are vacancies but they require immense skills. Therefore, there are a few takers.”
 
 When a person is pushed out of his comfort zone, he fumbles and his confidence declines if he lacks adaptability. When he works in a new atmosphere, he must blend with it to battle inferiority complex and emerge stronger. He should change his lifestyle and body language too, said Hardikar.
 
 He suggested to the students to explore their area of interest and work hard with perseverance to achieve something extraordinary. 
 
 He said, “Keeping a low aim is crime and mediocrity is uncouth. So instead of following the crowd, discover yourself and unlock your potential. Stick to your originality and outshine the rest.”
 
 Hardikar said that two qualities pose a major threat in the path of progress. “The mindset needs to change. When one is motivated to prove his mettle, people tend to pull him down and cause trouble or they allow him to go ahead but discourage his exuberant spirit,” he said.
 
 He said self-ego was a hindrance to adaptability, adding, “Overconfidence often makes one believe that he is mighty and he refuses to change. Be it technology or techniques, he should be receptive to go with the flow and survive the change.”
 
 Present on the dais were corporator Vicky Kukreja and expert member of   Kapil Chandrayan.
 
 
