NEW DELHI: Olympians   and   have been bestowed with Honorary Membership of the Professional Golf Tour of India (PGTI) for their outstanding achievements and contribution to Indian golf.

 Lahiri and Chawrasia join the exclusive club of PGTI Honorary Members which also includes Jeev Milkha Singh and  .
 
 Reacting to the news on Twitter, Lahiri said, "Thank you @PGTITOUR for helping me and professional golf grow in India. It's an honour!! #currypower #growthegame."
 
  
  
 Chawrasia reacted, saying, "I thank PGTI for acknowledging me. I accept this honour with all humility."
 
 The duo of Lahiri and Chawrasia, who made up the two-man Indian team at last year's Rio Olympics, sharpened their skills on the PGTI before shining on the international stage.
 
 The 30-year-old Lahiri, a winner of seven international events including two on the  , has reached dizzying heights in recent years.
 
 The man with 13 Major appearances climbed to a career-high 33 in the world rankings back in 2015. It was in 2015 that Lahiri posted the best finish by an Indian at a Major (tied fifth at the  ) and also bagged the Asian Tour Order of Merit title.
 
 The 2017 season has also been a memorable one for Lahiri as he registered his best finish on the PGA Tour with a tied second at the Memorial Tournament presented by Nationwide.
 
 His 51st position in the FedExCup rankings this year is another Indian record. He is now all set for his second outing at the Presidents Cup this week in New Jersey where he will represent the International Team against the hosts United States.
 
 The 39-year-old Chawrasia, a winner of six international events, has also been a trailblazer in Indian golf. He is the only Indian besides Jeev to have four European Tour victories to his credit.
 
 SSP has been in the top-6 of the Asian Tour for the last two years running. Besides the Olympics, he also represented India at the World Cup of Golf in 2016.
 
 SSP has had much to cheer about in 2017. Earlier this year, he became only the second Indian to successfully defend his Indian Open title, a feat previously achieved by compatriot Jyoti Randhawa in 2007.
 
 Last month he was also honoured with the Arjuna Award for his accomplishments that have contributed towards raising the stature of Indian golf globally.
 
