After poet   was under fire for allegedly hurting right-wing sentiments for reason as petty as a single line of a poem, and had to face an FIR, it was time for Mandakranta Sen to face such brutal personal comments for being able to speak her mind on social media. 

 “I have been threatened with gangrape”, wrote Mandakranta Sen on her   wall alongside the obscene threat message by one Raja Das. Soon after Sen uploaded the message, there was a huge uproar against such vile hate messages. Her fans and intellectuals from all over Kolkata are showing solidarity to both Mandakranta and Srijato.
 
 Sen went to the   at   in the evening and lodged an FIR with the Cyber crime section of the police. "I am not worried about myself. The only way to fight fundamentalism is to go on writing more and hold more rallies," said the poet.
 
 Earlier, when Srijato had faced death threats for penning a poem in reference to a rape threat made by one of the men of Uttar Pradesh CM  , Mandakranta Sen was one of the strong personalities who stood by his side and openly voiced her protest.
 
 In 2015, Sen had returned her Sahitya Akademi Young Writers Special Award to protest against the communal riots boasting about in the country. What is shocking is that even the ruling government, BJP, has presented a divided house on the rape threat. While  , national secretary of   criticised the act of the threat, state BJP president   accused Sen of indulging in “cheap publicity” stunts.
 
 "We condemn such threats to a woman. Even if she professes an ideology which is opposite to ours. We are against such threats to a woman. This cannot be tolerated in a civilised society," Sinha said. Poet Srijato has also condemned the message and has expressed his disgust over the issue. 
 
 In a country where artistic license has become a major issue weighing more than national poverty or illiteracy, it is not anymore shocking that poets are threatened with rape and death messages. Such strong words sprout from the inherent misogyny harboured by men and women alike. Unless the majority of the country starts to feel strongly against violence towards women and any human being for that matter, there is no escape from this appalling time. 
 
 
