JAIPUR: Over the next 15 days, Jaipurites will start cleaning the Pink City to make it squeaky clean. As part of celebrating Prime Minister Narendra Modi's birthday on Sunday , the state government will launch a state-level cleanliness campaign-`Swachhta Hi Seva' --from Jaipur's Gator area.
The campaign will be launched by chief minister   on Sunday and will conclude on October 2 on the occasion of Gandhi Jayanti.
 
 Mayor   inspected Gator to review the preparation for launching the cleanliness campaign. He directed officials to make sitting arrangements and for parking vehicles.
 
 Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) officials said that each day , 5-6 wards of the city will take up the cleaning cam paign. This will be done by employing available resources with the  . They will remove garbage, bushes and other filth that make the city dirty.
 
 The JMC will take the help of social organisations, social activists and NGOs to make the campaign successful. In this regard, JMC held a meeting with social organisations on Saturday . They discussed the the importance of `Swachhta Hi Seva' campaign.
 
 Officials appealed for the cooperation of social organisations in the cleanliness drive. They also sought suggestions from social organisations to make the campaign successful.
 
 They also signed a pledge for maintaining cleanliness in the city.
 
 Other than social organisations, JMC has sought the help of  , religious places, traders associations, hospitals, schools, colleges, NCC, scouts and guides for the cleanliness campaign.
 
 On the occasion of Gandhi Jayanti, a film on cleanliness will be shown and cultural programmes will be held.
 
 
 
 
 In just one day, 450 truckloads of garbage was collected by civic bodies along with the cooperation of people of the area in Bharatpur on Saturday. Thousands of people came out of their houses and cleaned their areas and roads. In five hours, city looked clean. Bharatpur district collector NK Gupta asked people to take pledge -na gandgi karunga, na karne doonga (I will not make city dirty and not let others to do so).
 
