NAGPUR: A temple that was illegally rebuilt by a bunch of students on the   was earlier demolished by the administration, admitted registrar Puran Meshram on Saturday. He added that the   (VC) and pro-VC had opposed the proposal to raze the temple.

 On July 6, vice-chancellor SP Kane had told TOI that no permission was given for the puja and prasad scheduled at the temple for Friday. University officials could not prevent students affiliated to different political groups from holding the feast. The feast was attended by over 200 persons, including heads of the department, lecturers and students.
 
 When asked if the NU would act against those who attended the event, Kane said, “I can’t stop any officer or student from taking darshan.”
 
 The controversy had started on June 19 when around 10 to 15 members from youth wings of different political parties had installed an idol and started rebuilding the temple. Kane had visited the spot but did not file a police complaint. He had also refused to admit that the temple was demolished by the NU administration.
 
 When asked why the VC was reluctant to act, Meshram told TOI that cops had threatened to book SP Kane for hurting religious sentiments last month when students had started rebuilding the temple.
 
 Meshram said, “The VC buckled under pressure. The Bajrang Dal, Vishwa Hindu Parishad, Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarathi Parishad, NSUI and NSC joined hands to rebuild the temple.” He added, “I will be seeking an explanation from the estate officer Vinod Ilme regarding the feast.”
 
 Meshram said he had placed a proposal before the management council to remove all   religious structures. “But the VC and pro-VC opposed it,” he said.
 
 Senior PI BS Khandale claimed that as 200 people had gathered and a riot-like situation appeared, he suggested both the parties to mutually sort out the issue. “It would have become a national issue. The students told me that the idol was thrown. Then, the VC had only assured that he will construct the temple,” Khandale said.
 
 On June 19, when TOI had visited the spot, not more than 20 people were present at the spot.
 
 VC SP Kane said, “Every management council members’ views were taken. There are more illegal religious structures that have come up over the years. But, they can’t be demolished. They have to be shifted. We had received a government letter which mentioned procedure for shifting of place of worship.”
 
 Kane added, “There are other previous government decisions and court orders. But, not all were incorporated in the agenda before the management council. We said let all such orders and information about religious structures be included in the proposal before taking a decision.”
 
 Kane countered Meshram’s claim that the cops threatened to book him but agreed that the temple was demolished by the NU.
 
