KOCHI: Kerala’s Ayurvedic and coconut based products can cater to a large market in Kazakhstan said  , deputy co-chairperson of  , who visited Kochi to attend the Vyapar 2017.

 Vyapar is a platform organized by the state government for a select 200 small and medium size entrepreneurs (SME) to meet international and domestic buyers. Vyapar intends to help SME's expand their market capacity without a middle man.
 
 Several innovative and sustainable products were exhibited by Kerala-based entrepreneurs at Vyapar. “We have established contact with several entrepreneurs and we are setting up meetings with them,” said SS Sujeev, CEO of Kairali Exports that provides ‘ayurvedic’ dyes for textiles.
 
 One of the innovative enterprises that attracted the attention of international and domestic buyers at Vyapar was Hebon, who identify themselves as the ‘jack of all tastes’, they provide jackfruit based products.
 
 “Veganism is gaining prominence in Unites States and other parts of the world. They are looking to replace meat with vegan food products, which can provide the same consumption experience. We provide jackfruit based burger patties to a New Zealand based company. Jackfruit based Teriyaki chicken to the United States,” said Subhash K, managing director of Hebon.
 
 Several domestic exporters attended Vyapar meet, looking to avail the best deals in the Indian market. “I mainly deal in rubber products, but the problem with the rubber products in Kerala is that they are very expensive compared to the rates offered by other states,” said Manpreet Singh, governing council member of the  .
 
 “In the rubber industry, there is no value addition to the basic product. But there are some wonderful innovation products exhibited by several other industries such a food and textile,” he added.
 
 He said that his main motivation to attend Vyapar was to understand the market demands and modify their range of products accordingly. The three-day event, which was held at the  , witnessed more than 7,400 business interactions and business enquiries worth over Rs 400 crore.
 
 Bid to expand market
 
 Subicsha, an enterprise which is a combined initiative of over 200 Kudumbashree units in Kozhikode was present at Vyapar, to establish new business relationships and expand their market. Subicsha, which engages over 1000 below poverty line households, produces household items such a coconut oil, coconut-based soap products and pickles.
 
 “We currently have an order, which was placed by a Chandigarh-based company,” said Mainoona Basher from Subicsha.
 
