HYDERABAD: After a long drawn shoot out in Lucknow, an alleged IS sympathiser Saifullah was gunned down by UP ATS.

 The all important   to both   and Uttar Pradesh police originated from   (CI Cell), helping the Madhya Pradesh police and UP Police to zero in on the  . Sources in   police said that they had in puts that a Kurasan module has been working in India based on the information given by one of the several IS sympathisers from both Telangana and Kerala deported from various Middle East countries. The CI cell had been tracking the chat messages on Telegram over the last two months. The module was led by Atif Muzafar alias Al Kasim, who is about 28 years old.Kasim is so indoctrinated that he even penned a book "The Successor of ISIS from India for the Muslims of Kashmir and Assam''.
 
 The CI Cell members sensed that the module were planning some terror attack, but they were under the impression that the target could be Hyderabad.
 
 The blast took place in a running train in the Bhopal-Ujjain Passenger train at Jabri railway station at Madhya Pradesh. When the CI Cell officials were tracking the whereabouts of the Kurasan gang, they found that some of these nine-member gang were inside Bhopal. When the blast occurred, it struck the Telangana police that it was they who could have been involved in the blast. Telangana DGP Anurag Sharma called the Madhya Pradesh DGP and explained the online surveillance on Kurasan module and said its members are presently in MP.
 
 It was this lead and telephone numbers given by the local police to MP that helped them to nab few persons from MP and it was based on their confession the UP police were alerted about the existence of Saifullah.
 
 As the terror suspects could not execute their earlier plan of planting bombs in Uttar Pradesh during the elec tion schedule, they went to Bhopal and left the IED on the train. Home Minister Rajnath Singh called up DGP Anurag Shrma and congratulated him for helping track the attackers.
 
 
 
