Nagpur: If everything goes according to plan, CBSE may conduct its Std X and XII board exams on the same date in future. A CBSE official said the suggestion had emerged from a meeting with some school principals and is being actively considered.

 CBSE spokesperson Rama Sharma said, “The suggestion is being referred to the committee constituted to give suggestions on systemic improvement of the evaluation process in future board exams.” City schools say, if implemented, this move will definitely help in managing logistics better. 
 
 Anmol Badjatia, principal of Jain International, said, “In Nagpur, very few schools are exam centres, so there is definitely a load on resources. If exams are conducted in two shifts, then this might be possible and they will be able to utilize the infrastructure. But two different shifts will definitely be needed to do it.”
 
 Plex John, principal of Edify School, said, “Already, university level exams are conducted in this manner. The BA first year paper will be in the morning whereas second year paper will be in the afternoon. So, if it is done as per the shift system, there will be a lot of benefit to everyone.”
 
 Swati Chauhan, principal of Central India Public School (Kamptee Road), said, “I think manpower can be managed much better if this is done.”
 
 Another point of view emerging is that managing logistics won’t be that easy since exam duration does not provide a complete picture. Shilpee Ganguly, principal of Centre Point School (Katol Road), said, “Students are in the exam room for 3.5 hours, which includes their pre-exam time as well. Apart from this, we need one hour to prepare everything for a crucial exam as this, which requires 4.5 hours. And then Std X students will need to be out of the campus completely before the second shift of Std XII exam starts, and that time also needs to be accounted for. It can be done, if it has to be, but it’s not a feasible option.”
 
 The other change CBSE is planning is to advance the board exams to February, from current March. This will help CBSE to wrap up exams a month earlier and leave enough time to deal with revaluation (if any) issues and declare early results. Schools say this will result in students getting almost a month less for revision. Ganguly said, “Syllabus is completed in every school by December and if this new rule comes into affect then we’ll have to wrap up by November.”
 
 
