Indian film industries would be poorer for a while as the country has lost one of its iconic thespians,  , on Friday after he succumbed to a heart attack.

 The legendary actor, who was 66, started his acclaimed career in 1976 with the Marathi film Ghashiram Kotwal.
 The actor went on to carve his niche in Bollywood with films such as Ardh Satya, Aakrosh and Jaane Bhi Do Yaaro and also became one of the first few Indian actors to cross over to Hollywood with films including East is East, City of Joy and Charlie Wilson's War.
 
 His versatile acting combined with his baritone and magnetic screen presence made for some memorable performances in several film industries. Om Puri was first seen in a Mollywood film in Lenin Rajendran's Puravrutham and had also teamed up with Jayaram last year for the horror-comedy  . Apart from his two Malayalam films, filmmaker Priyadarshan had directed him in Malamaal Weekly and Kamaal Dhamaal Malamaal. We talk to his co-stars and directors, who mourn his demise and term it as one of the biggest losses to the film fraternity.
 
 
 
 I first noticed Om Puri in a Hindi movie, for his unconventional looks and different acting style. We met for the first time on the set of Lenin Rajendran's Malayalam film Puravrutham in 1988. I remember our first scene in the movie; I come up with a group to face him but once I see him brandishing a sickle, I slowly pull back. He would burst out laughing seeing the expression on my face. That, I think, broke the ice between us and after that we spent the evening talking. One day, he told me that I should write about the incidents in my life as they would make a good read. It was his compulsion which prompted me to write for the first time. And that's when I went on to write my memoirs, Njan Innocent. 
 
 I next met him on the sets of Priyadarshan's Malamaal Weekly, 18 years later. I told him that I had written five books by then and he requested me to give him a copy if anyone has translated them to Hindi or English. My most recent book about me enduring cancer was also released in English and I was waiting to give him a copy when we next met. 
 He's an actor who came from theatre and went on to create his own space in Bollywood. He wasn't the kind who wanted to be a busy actor or to make money. Once he finished a movie, he would go back to his first love ' theatre. He was that passionate about acting and was open to working with any talented director, irrespective of the language. Be it in politics, films or any other field, if you race against others, you will ultimately lose your peace of mind. He didn't consider the film field as a competitive one, and that's what set him apart. His demise is a huge loss to the Indian film industry.
 
 
 
 
 His death is a loss to world cinema. If Thilakan chettan was alive, he would have done his role in Aadupuliyattam. I have always felt there are certain similarities in the acting styles of Thilakan chettan and Om Puri sir. That's why we decided to approach him for the role. I remember he was shooting in Lahore when we contacted him and sent him a brief of the role. He immediately agreed. We were all nervous about meeting him because from the characters he had played, his baritone and unconventional looks, he came off as a serious, intimidating individual. But when he arrived, he came across as this kid acting for the first time ' he asked us about every detail, confirming if every line he said was right. During the shoot also, he wasn't the kind who went back to the caravan once his scenes were over. He'd rather spend it chatting with people on the sets. He loved Kerala food so I used to get a variety of dishes delivered to the sets for him. All of this happened last January, so it's still hard to believe that he's gone.
 
 
