PATNA: The murder of a notorious criminal   inside the court premises at   has underlined the fact that the state government has learnt no lesson from the past incidents in Bihar.

 Bablu, an accused in more than 40 cases of murder and other heinous crimes, was shot dead while in judicial custody when he was to be produced before the court on Thursday.
 
 There are 58 court premises across 38 districts in Bihar. Sources said all the courts are functioning with old sanctioned strength of police personnel for security. The security situation has become unmanageable with increasing number of cases and litigants. The security of respective courts are looked after by senior officers at district level.
 
 In the past too, several such incidents have taken place on the court premises in Bihar. Security is beefed up after each incident. The door-frame metal detectors have been installed at several courts, the situation is the same as it was earlier.
 
 On January 23, 2015, three persons, including a woman suicide bomber and a state police constable, were killed when a crude bomb exploded on the Ara civil court premises in Bhojpur district. Fifteen persons were injured and two undertrials had escaped while taking the advantage of the situation.
 
 Jugnu Kumar, another undertrial in several murder, kidnapping and loot cases, was shot at by unidentified armed assailants on the Muzaffarpur civil court premises on March 16, 2015.
 
 Later, on April 11, 2016, another murder case accused and undertrial   was shot dead inside the civil court premises at Muzaffarpur.
 
 On April 18, 2016, a woman suicide bomber named   detonated a crude bomb inside Chhapra civil court premises. Six persons were injured in the incident.
 
 When asked, a senior home department official said prisoners are handed over to escort parties provided by district police. He said the escort in-charge hands over the prisoners to lock-up in-charge inside court premises. “Every court has a lock-up for undertrials brought for production,” he said, adding that lock-up in-charge send the inmates to various court and collects them after production before handing them over to the escort party to take them to jail. He also said every court has a DSP or inspector rank officer responsible for entire security of the premises.
 
