NAGPUR: The Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) thumping victory can be attributed to discipline in the party and unity among its candidates. This resulted in non-division of   votes and it helped them bag all four seats in over 20 of 38 wards.

 Also, BJP received no setback from over its 100 rebels especially RSS swayamsewaks. The party was very fortunate that its ex-ally Shiv Sena failed to make its presence in the elections.
 
 The best example was victory of all four seats from ward no. 15 from where its heavyweight rebels — Prasanna Paturkar, Vishaka Maind, independents and Vishaka Joshi, Pankaj Patel and Dr Dattatray Pitale, Shiv Sena even failed to finish as first runner up.
 
 Results of 38 wards saw BJP’s straight fight with Congress that was seen divided within the party and also candidates’ panels. BJP also got advantage of Congress’ votes cut down by its rebels, BSP and NCP.
 
 A slew of developmental projects planned and executed by chief minister Devendra Fadnavis and Union minister for road transport and highways   proved as a big booster for all BJP candidates.
 
 All these collectively saw BJP sweeping all four seats in over 20 wards in all six legislative assembly constituencies. Prominent wards were 1, 4, 11, 13, 16, 19, 22, 24, 25, 26, 29, 31, 32, 36 and 37.
 
 BJP smartly made a combo of all castes and gave only 8 of 151 seats to Brahmins which helped them bag votes from dalits and OBCs. The best example is ward no. 36 from where BJP won all four seats and all secured votes between 17,700 to 18,200. All of them won by huge margins of over 6,000 votes despite the fact three of four were new faces.
 
 Immediately after her victory from ward no. 36, Pallavi Shamkule told TOI it was a victory of overall BJP family. “All four candidates decided to campaign in united manner and also equally. Party leaders who failed to get tickets also campaigned with us. We never went for caste politics and contested on development agenda,” she said.
 
 BJP won all four seats from ward no. 1 in North Nagpur that is known as bastion of Congress and BSP. The BJP panel had two candidates from the Sindhi community — Virendra Kukreja and Pramila Mathrani — yet managed to get votes from all communities, especially the dalits who are present in large numbers.
 
 BJP dropped half of its sitting corporators and still managed to give a grand show. BJP planned the election campaign in a very proper manner after learning that citizens were upset with its performance in the NMC elections and also with most of its sitting corporators.
 
 BJP also handled the polling booth management very well and tried to woo the voters till the last minute.
 
 
