HYDERABAD: Exceptionally  , accompanied by   lashed the city late on Tuesday night, taking denizens by surprise. Within minutes of the  , the city slipped into   with   disconnected across most parts of Hyderabad.

 Responding to queries at about 11.45pm, IMD director Y K Reddy said, thunderstorm with rain and or hails spread all over city will continue for an hour in some places.
 
  
  
 
 The reason for the rains he said was trough is also seen extending from the North Vidarbha region in Maharashtra to South Tamil Nadu across Telangana and Rayalaseema. The winds blowing at 40-100 kmph -according to weathermen created havoc on the streets. Right from Banjara hills to Trimulgherry roads all over the twin cities were flooded resulting in traffic jams even close to midnight.
 
  
  
 
 Reports of motorists getting stuck in the downpour, came in from various parts of the city even as trees, billboards and flexis lay uprooted and completely damaged.
 
 “I have never in my 10 years in the city seen such a hailstorm. Huge trees were found lying on the road in Banjara Hills while the Punjagutta flyover was completely flooded. For a motorist, driving through the rain was a nightmare,“ Pritha Kumar a resident of Khairatabad said.
 
  
  
 
 Employees working in office till late shared how the massive downpour left their windows broken. Similar cases were reported from houses in the city too. They saw pellets of frozen rain which fell in showers, making huge noise while it lasted.
 
  
  
 
 Several trucks that had broken down were also spotted in parts of the city.
 
 In line with the warning issued Indian Meteorological Department on Monday the city witnessed heavy spells of rain and hail storm activity as well, on Tuesday night. According to officials from the IMD, the weather would continue to be like this for the next 48 hours. As a result dozens of cars ferrying techies back home from their offices in HiTech city were caught unawares in the sudden downpour.
 
  
  
 
 Following the rain denizens of the city took to social networking websites, while some expressed joy at the sudden rains others who were trying to get back home cursed their luck.
 
 The hail and gusty, forced the electricity department to sever power distribution to several are as in the city. Also the hail managed to break a few window panes in apartments and offices in the city.
 
  
  
 
 One post by Ashwin Balakrishnan reads, “Absolute pandemonium in #Hyderabad. Torrential #rain and #hail. Hope the puppies in the field survive the night.“ Similarly there were others who cautioned their fellow Hyderabadis not to venture out into the rains.
 
 Incidentally some people were posting pictures of the hail they collected from outside their homes.
 
