THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: A major fire inside the high security zone around the Sree   led to panic the city early on Sunday morning. The fire was detected in the compound of a warehouse of the postal department, located barely 100 metres from the north gate of the temple.

 However, prompt intervention by the fire and rescue services personnel helped contain the fire and prevented damages to the decades-old buildings in the area.
 
 Fire department officials said that the fire broke out around 3.30am. It was the commandos deployed for temple security who spotted the smoke emanating from the warehouse compound and alerted the fire department.
 
 Considering the gravity of the situation, the department pressed into service as many as 1 units from seven out of nine fire stations in the district. The fire tenders were queued up one after the other on the narrow lane that led to the spot from the main road.
 
 They interconnected the tanks of the tenders using hoses so that the fire tender working on the flames never ran out of water.
 
 The fire fighters also employed two high pressure pumps using which they kept filling the tanks using water from the   pond. After toiling for around 90 minutes, they were able to douse the flames by around 5.30am.
 
 Divisional fire officer Noushad said that the warehouse belonged to the   (RMS). It was used to store items such as envelopes, inlands and sacks.
 
 `'After dousing the flames, we took out sacks that were still fuming and sprayed them using water to ensure that the fire did not break out again from the cinders,“ said Noushad.
 
 Besides the warehouse, another house nearby too suffered damages in the fire.
 
 It is suspected that the fire broke out from the heap of garbage that was set on fire by the warehouse staff. Two persons­ a commando of Kerala police and a fire fighting officer­ have sustained minor injuries.
 
 Devaswom minister  , who visited the spot, said that prima facie it seemed that it was negligence and scant regard for fire safety precautions that resulted in the fire. The government would issue orders for a comprehensive fire safety audit in the region to prevent such mishaps in the future.
 
 Postal director A   has said that a detailed inquiry would be conducted to find out persons responsible for the fire outbreak.
 
