THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: More than four years after he was caught by the city police following a highway chase that reached all the way up to Pune, notorious thief Davinder Singh, popular known as  , was sentenced for 10 years rigorous imprisonment by a local court here. The sentence was by additional district and sessions judge-II, P Krishnakumar. The judge also imposed a penalty of Rs 10,000 on the convict.

 The Delhi native was facing trial for the charge of breaking into the bungalow of   at Muttada in the city on January 21, 2013. He was accused of stealing high-end electronic gadgets and a luxury sports utility vehicle from the house. The loot comprised A   car that cost Rs 29.72 lakh, an Apple laptop that cost of Rs 1 lakh, two mobile phones that cost around Rs 40,000 and Rs 15,000 each.
 
 On April 22, 2017, the court had found him guilty of charges under Sections 457 (house trespass) 380 (theft in house) and 461 (dishonestly breaking into receptacle containing property) under the IPC. However, on Monday while pronouncing the sentence, the judge gave him enhanced punishment, taking into account of his previous track record as a habitual offender, under Section 75 of IPC. This was done after considering a special submission moved by the prosecution during the trial stage.
 
 The crime committed by Davinder had garnered public attention just for the impossibility of the task. The bungalow was secured with high-end burglar alarms and surveillance cameras. The windows of the bungalow were reinforced with bullet-proof glass panes and cast iron cross bars. Yet, he to successfully disarmed the alarm and cut open the glass panes and iron cross bars. Once inside, he secured the remote control of the cast iron gate and the key of the SUV, using which he managed to get away. Just before breaking-in, Davinder had removed his mask and smiled at the surveillance camera. This brazen move, however, backfired at him as the police could identify him quickly, being the notorious criminal he was and immediately launched a pursuit, which ended successfully on the sixth day in Pune. It was a team led by assistant commissioner K E Baiju, which made the arrest.
 
 During the trial, Davinder was represented by advocate B A Aloor. Public prosecutor   represented the prosecution.
 
