Dance, music, fun and festivities - the nine nights of   are all about revelry. As  's janta is gearing up to attend   nights and putting together nine jazzy outfits to make an impression, city DJs are preparing their playlist too. However, apart from the usual   and Atul Purohit dandiya-garba tracks, the DJs are mixing English pop artists including   and Justin Bieber's chartbusters too, apart from the latest hit - Luis Fonsi's  !
So don't be surprised if you hear Shape of You and Cheap Thrills interspersed with Dholi Taro Dhol Baje and Nagada Sang Dhol Baje at dandiya nights - coz city DJs believe in mixing it up! 
 
 
 
 Puerto Rican singer Luis Fonsi's Despacito has already got over 3 billion views on Youtube. The song is catchy, yes, but one wouldn't expect it to be played in a dandiya event. City-based   Vinayak Rajan says, "Dandiya is all about beats, so we do love mixing Hindi and English numbers. When mixed with EDM, it makes for perfect dance beats." 
 He adds, The latest trend for dandiya nights is to mix popular English tracks like Cheap Thrills, Shape Of You and Attention with other traditional/   dandiya tracks, to make the beats catchier and peppier. It will be loved by youngsters, since they have a great liking for English pop music."
 
 DJ Rohit Yadav adds that no dandiya party is complete without Bollywood numbers. He says, "Since dandiya and garba tracks are all about beats, so its fusion with Bollywood and English tracks makes it very peppy. This season, I’m planning to mix English tracks like Shape Of You and Cheap Thrills (its remix too) with Bollywood tracks like Dholi Taro Dhol Baje and Falguni Pathak's evergreen dandiya songs to add a unique touch. I believe, it's about capturing the mood of the crowd and letting them groove."
 DJ Kaku, a Bareilly-based DJ, echoes similar sentiments. "At dandiya nights, beats and rhythm set the mood for the revellers. People like to dance to different genres, be it Hindi, English or fusion. The top EDM tracks this year are Shape Of You, Cheap Thrills, Despacito, Let Me Love You, which can be easily mixed with Nagada Sang Dhol Baje, Dholi Taro, Kala Chashma, Shubhaarambh, Sanedo, Main Bani Teri Radha and even tracks like Manali Trance, Mercy, Baby Doll and Beat Pe Booty."
 
 
 
 DJ Kaku adds, "For the dandiya nights, the combo of EDM with tribal dance mixes like Voodoo Song, Scream as well as remixes of evergreen retro numbers blends well with dandiya beats. All we need is to improvise, adjust the tempo and beats of the song to make it more groovy and peppy for dance crazies, so that they can flaunt their moves with dandiya sticks." 
 DJ Deepak Kumar says, "Retro remixes are an all-time favourite, so when popular ones like Koi Yahan Nacche Nacche, Dum Maaro Dum, Kanta Laga, Gulabi Aankhein, etc are mixed with English pop numbers and dandiya beats, adds more zing to the party. For the dandiya nights, popular retro tracks will be topping my playlist remixed with dandiya beats."
 
 
 DJ Sunny Gupta says, "Bollywood numbers rule every DJ's playlist and when mixed with EDM, it makes for a perfect mix. for the dandiya nights, I'll be playing a blend of Cheap Thrills, Attention, Let Me Love You and 2U with Bollywood tracks like Ladki Beautiful Kar Gayi Chull, Tamma Tamma, Kala Chashma Pari Hun Main."
 
  
  
 
 
 
