HYDERABAD: Violation of basic construction norms and ignorance of the law on the part of builders resulted in the massive mudslide that killed two women workers at an underconstruction commercial building in Kondapur on Monday morning.

 The vertical excavation for a cellar was taken up by the builder without providing any lateral support to prevent movement of soil mass that led to the workers' deaths. The location of the excavation, close to the road line, and dumping of reinforcement (material) on the road led to the massive collapse of the soil.
 
 A team of professors from   ( ), Hyderabad, led by Prof NV   studied the reasons for the incident and submitted a preliminary report to the   (GHMC) on Tuesday .
 
 The report said heavy surcharge load compounded by reinforcement on the road led to the collapse of soil, and vibrations from movement of vehicles very close to the cellar portion aggravated the problem.
 
 “Digging for a cellar floor to a depth of 10.5 metres for the proposed three cellars, ground and three upper floors by Vamsiram Builders was carried out close to the road without maintaining setbacks. The soil condition indicates loose and disintegrated moorum, especially on the top five metres,“ the report said.
 
 The JNTU team said traffic should be stopped totally on the roads adjacent to a deep excavation and no movement of vehicles should be allowed close to such a site. No dumping of heavy loads on the immediate periphery of the dig should be allowed to prevent further collapses.
 
 The report suggested that the existing dug out portion should be stabilised tempora rily by a `grouted soil anchor or nail with pad system for temporarily stabilising the slope' with proper design and execution. The builder should be allowed to go ahead with construction only after following the safety norms.
 
 “Many precautions should be taken before the site is stabilised and become safes. The major thing is heavy material or equipment should not be placed on the top of excavated portion and drainage from neighbouring areas should not be allowed at the site. The builder should report immediately if any soil is found moving to or from the property or neighbouring property ,“ Ramana Rao said.
 
