NEW DELHI: By the time   was done with his demolition job against   on Thursday night, the buzzing social media went into overdrive as   tweeted: "One of the best innings I have seen in the   & that includes all 10 seasons." This isn't the only note that Tendulkar has written for Pant. After his thunderous triple hundred against Maharashtra for Delhi at the Wankhede Stadium in the last Ranji season, the master batsman asked Pant to leave his bat behind for him to scribble his thoughts on the youngster on the willow. That bat isn't in use anymore. It's broken. But on Thursday, Pant was again wielding a bat with another "important note" written on it -  's message.

 This is the excitement the 19-year-old has managed to generate with his overwhelming striking skill. The experts of the game praised his maturity when he turned up a day after his father's demise and hit a 57 for the Daredevils against Bangalore. In a way, Pant is also providing an answer to the telling question MS Dhoni had posed after the World T20 last year: "Does anyone have a son or brother who can keep wickets (for India)?" The question seemed pertinent at that moment. Even the selectors then reckoned that KL Rahul could at best fill in as wicketkeeper in the white-ball cricket. A lot has changed since then, as TOI has learnt that the Indian team management has asked Pant to concentrate on his fielding too, till the time Dhoni is around. "There is more depth in the resources now. Pant and Ishan Kishan have really come up well. Pant's wicketkeeping has improved a lot," Saba Karim, a member of the previous selection panel, said. He added: "But he has to keep performing like he has done in Ranji Trophy (972 runs in 8 matches) and the IPL. There's an India ' A' tour to South Africa this year."
 
 Lions captain Suresh Raina, at the receiving end, could simply say: "He is the future."
 
 There are several reasons for people to back Pant. Former India wicketkeeper Deep Dasgupta points at his versatility. "He can bat anywhere between No.1 to No. 5. He has proved himself in the day's format and now he is doing it in the shortest. Pant has earned the hype and he is the only one who looks to be an apt replacement for Dhoni. But he shouldn't be pushed only because of the hype," Dasgupta said.
 
 The Champions Trophy squad is likely to be out early next week, and though Pant's chances may be slim but there is hope. "The team is ready but you have to take into account what these young boys are doing," a source close to selection committee told TOI. 
 
