KOLKATA: One hundred policemen led by the   DGP had to retreat from Justice C S  's New Town residence on Friday after the Calcutta high court judge refused to accept the warrant issued by the Supreme Court directing his presence in the apex court by March 31.

 Karnan met the police team but didn't accept the   warrant dated March 10. “I told them (police) that I will not receive that. They were very cooperative and said their purpose was to only serve the notice,“ Karnan said. His advocate, W  , signed the document clarifying the judge's position. “I rejected the warrant citing valid reasons and I found the act demeaning,“ Karnan later told the media.
 
 A senior officer, however, said police would treat the warrant as served. The officer said Karnan was served the bailable warrant along with a personal release (PR) bond. The judge signed the bond form and also put down his observations rejecting it.This will now be forwarded to the apex court to show compliance with its order. “Since the bond has his signature, it means the judge was served the warrant and granted a PR bond,“ the officer said. There was high drama out side Karnan's Rosedale Garden residence in Kolkata on Friday morning: a beacon-flashing motorcade of five cars, two police vans and four riot-control vehicles fitted with water cannons stopped at the gates of the complex, and 100 policemen, led by DGP Surajit Kar Purkayastha, Bidhannagar CP Gyanwant Singh and two IGPs, trooped in.
 
 The security guards could only watch, agape at the number of uniforms.
 
 The senior officers went up to Karnan's first-floor flat with an SP conversant in Tamil. The police officers left after about 15 minutes. Friday's event was a sequel to last week's Supreme Court order directing the DGP to personally serve the warrant on Karnan. The judge had skipped a hearing in the SC's contempt case against him, following which the apex court had issued a bailable warrant.In response, the judge, who was earlier divested of judicial powers by the SC, had called a “court“ on the lawns of his apartment complex and ordered a CBI probe against Chief Justice of India J S Khehar and the other six judges on the SC bench that issued the warrant. He also passed a suo motu order directing the seven judges to pay him Rs 14 crore as compensation.
 
 “I have no trouble with the cops but I found the entire exercise harassing. I have already written to the Prime Minister's Office and am waiting for a response. I have also issued two suo motu orders to the CBI,“ he told the media later.
 
 Karnan reiterated the claim that he was being targeted because he was a Dalit. According to his advocate, he is unlikely to appear before the top court on March 31. “I am processing powerful legal weapons (sic),“ Karnan said.
 
