PUNE: A   in a   turned violent after its staffers allegedly molested an engineering student and beat her brother and their friends over a   dispute.

 The incident occurred at Cuba Libre in Seasons Mall on Magarpatta Road in Hadapsar on Sunday night.
 
 Two of the waiters identified as Kedar Paswan (26) and Sunday Rawa (24) were arrested on Monday. They were later released on bail. Police are on the look out for two more staff members.
 
 The 20-year-old woman, a third year engineering student, is a native of Kolhapur.
 
 They had decided to celebrate her brother’s birthday at the pub and booked a table there for three hours. Five of their friends, including another woman, joined them at the pub.
 
 The woman, in her complaint, said her brother had placed an order for 90 ml liquor, but the waiter served him only 60 ml. Following this, an argument broke out between them. 
 
 According to the complaint, the woman accused the waiter of abusing and misbehaving with her brother. She also alleged that the waiter accused him of being heavily drunk. “The waiter argued and started beating my brother when he was asked to maintain decency. The waiter also beat two of our friends when they tried to intervene,” the complaint stated.
 
 The complaint further said, “Another waiter, a bouncer and the pub manager rushed there and started beating my brother and his friends. Seeing the argument turn violent, our woman friend and I intervened and tried to pacify them, but they pushed us aside. One of the waiters hit me with a stick. One of the suspects even caught hold of my hand amid the commotion. He also hit one of our friends on his head with a chair, following which we rushed him to the hospital for treatment.”
 
 The woman later registered a complaint of   and causing grievous hurt, among other charges of the Indian Penal Code with police against the four pub staffers.
 
 Sub inspector Manik Dokhe of the Hadapsar police station said the complainant has named three of the four staffers in her complaint. “We have arrested the two waiters. We will arrest the third suspect at the earliest. We have given a letter to the pub asking them to hand over the CCTV footage of the incident to ascertain the identity of the suspects,” he added.
 
 The woman’s brother refused to comment when TOI contacted him over phone. Kamlesh Magar, one of the pub partners, dismissed the allegations saying, “The woman has registered a false complaint. No such incident occurred in the pub.”
 
