The budget was a big disappointment for the farming sector as it was hoping for a loan waiver in the backdrop of drought and demonetisation.

 Chief minister Siddaramaiah said nothing about the much-awaited loan waiver but announced a record Rs 10,845 crore allocation for agriculture, horticulture and allied sectors, which he said is about 20% higher than the previous budget. But farmers were unimpressed with the government as what they wanted was help with debt; some described the schemes as “clever window dressing”.
 
 “Farmers affected by two consecutive droughts and other calamities like floods were hoping for a big revival package. The government gave nothing but additional funds for the Centre’s crop insurance scheme,” said Kurubur Shanthakumar, a farmer leader.
 
 Opposition leaders too were dismissive of the government’s budgetary allocation for agriculture, and said there was nothing real in it for the benefit of farmers.
 
 An official involved in the preparation of the budget said that although Siddaramaiah was keen to offer a loan waiver to drought-hit farmers he couldn’t due to the severe financial constraints on resource mobilisation following demonetisation and drought. He said the CM would announce a loan waiver in the vote-on-account budget next year, months before the 2018 assembly polls.
 
 For the first time, the CM said incentives would be directly transferred to the farmer’s account to promote adoption of improved technology, especially for cultivation of paddy, pulses and oilseed, to reduce the cost of cultivation and increase production. “A sum of Rs 100 crore has been allocated to give incentives,” Siddaramaiah added.
 
 As several taluks in the coastal and Malnad regions are facing drought for the first time, Siddaramaiah extended the Krishi Bhagya to all taluks (excluding command areas) by allocating Rs 600 crore. The scheme to disburse short-term agricultural loans up to Rs 3 lakh at zero percent interest and medium-term and long-term loans up to Rs 10 lakh at 3% interest will continue.
 
 About Rs233 crore has been allocated for drip irrigation facilities and 35,000 farmers will receive subsidy under the scheme. Considering the severe water shortage, farmers will get a 50% subsidy (maximum of Rs 50,000) for purchase of water tankers at the rate of 10 per taluk. The Pradhana Mantri Phasal Bhima Yojane has also been extended to cover 31.5 lakh hectares at a cost of Rs 845 crore.
 
 A cashew development board will be set up to promote development of good quality cashew orchards and the Rs 10 crore allotted is expected to benefit 10,000 people. A total of Rs 3 crore has been provided for post-harvest and marketing facilities for chillies, pepper and turmeric through Spice Development Board to benefit 7,000 farmers.
 
 
