BHOPAL: Unrelenting in its action against sand mafia for second day in a row,   demolished yet another illegal bridge at Chandora village in the district on Tuesday. The bridge was constructed to transport illegally mined mineral.

 On Monday, the administration after cracking the whip on sand mafia demolished a bridge, some 50 metres in length. It was found constructed at Nehra village on a shallow part of Ken river to facilitate transportation of illegally mined sand. The bridge was made up of iron pipes, clay and wooden logs.
 
 The Chandora bridge was about 2 km away from temporary structure, which was razed to the ground a day earlier.
 
 A day after crackdown on sand mafia, the district administration raided stone mafia in Panna. More than 20 truckloads of stone were seized in Pawai village by a task force comprising personnel of revenue, forest and district administration.
 
 District collector JP Irene Cynthia said: “Criminal cases have been initiated against unknown people. Piles of stones were found. Investigations are on to find out places from where the quarrying was done.” 
 
 District mining officer   said, “His department was receiving number of complaints about illegal   in the area. A task force was constituted to initiate the action that continued for three days.”
 
 More trucks abandoned by the mafia after raids on illegal quarries were brought to police station. The police had to use duplicate keys to drive the trucks to police stations as drivers fled with original truck keys.
 
 On Monday, the district administration in   confiscated 112 vehicles, trucks and tractors, carrying illegally mined sand after multiple raids on more than four sand mines in the region.
 
 The district collector said people from Banda district in UP operated on a large scale in the MP villages where the sand mines are located.
 
 “Mining is banned completely in Uttar Pradesh. We have already informed about the operation to the district collector of Banda,” the collector said.
 
 
