GUWAHATI: World Health Day was observed across Assam on Friday against a backdrop of   in the  , lack of infrastructure,   and rising incidents of medical negligence. Besides, women in Assam are still not aware of the importance of hygiene during the period of menstruation, nor do they have a comprehensive knowledge of HIV/AIDS. 

 A senior doctor told TOI that the main problem plaguing the public health sector is the shortage of doctors. Assam needs more than 11,000 doctors but in reality. "Currently, close to 3,000 doctors or 2,800 medical professionals are serving in the public health sector in Assam. There are 4,800-plus posts for doctors. The shortfall is of 1,400 doctors. The main reason for the shortage are salary structure, negative perception about promotional opportunities, overburdening or work pressure and also violence that doctors face from relatives of patients," said the doctor.
 
 Friday's focus was on mental health issues with senior bureaucrats holding forth on depression. A 2015 figure had pointed at severe deficiency of mental health experts in state-run medical institutions. Out of the 107 registered psychiatrists in the state only 47 are currently rendering their services at state run hospitals, medical colleges and medical centres.
 
 "We don't have a policy on mental health and there is a lack of manpower to tackle the issue. Depression is common with instances of suicides due to depression being reported frequently," said  , a senior member of the Assam branch of the   (IMA).
 
 The state in the past one year has witnessed instances of medical negligence one after the other. From last year's incident of a toddler being allegedly given HIV positive blood transfusion at GMCH to a botched up cataract operation at a civil hospital in Nagaon district last month to another case of an 18-year-old losing her life at GMCH after allegedly being administered high dosage of anaesthesia at Barpeta medical college during a gall bladder operation, there are instances aplenty of carelessness by the medical fraternity. 
 
 "An inquiry has been ordered. After the inquiry we can tell what exactly happened," said Thaneswar Malakar, deputy commissioner, Barpeta district.
 
 Even awareness pertaining to deadly diseases like AIDS has hit a low in Assam. Only 44.6% women in Assam are aware that consistent use of contraceptives can reduce the chances of getting HIV/AIDS, according to the latest National Family Health Survey-4 report.
 
