KOLKATA:   reportedly now has a problem with superstars smoking and drinking on screen. Disclaimers saying smoking or drinking is injurious to health will no longer suffice for the Nihalani-led   (CBFC). If Nihalani has his way, superstars must not be shown drinking or   unless the provocation for doing so is “really strong”. When a film does so, it will have to go with an  .

 Such an instruction has obviously not gone down well with the film industry. Most directors have reacted sharply to Nihalani’s comments in an interview to The Quint where he has been quoted as saying: “Merely putting a ticker warning at some remote corner of the screen whenever there is smoking or drinking shown, is not enough anymore. We feel the superstars who are followed by millions and who set an example in   must not be shown drinking or smoking on screen unless the provocation for doing so is really strong… A film where alcohol is essential would have to go with an A certificate.”
 
 Director Kamaleswar Mukherjee came down heavily against the CBFC chief. “Is this a joke? Everyone is laughing at such ridiculous norms. Who decides which provocation is strong enough?” Mukherjee asked, after having shot a scene with superstar Dev at a bar in a five star hotel of the city on Tuesday evening.
 
 Director Atanu Ghosh was equally livid. “What is the definition of extreme provocation?” he asked, insisting that he will have scenes showing superstar Prosenjit Chatterjee smoking in his next film.
 
 Director Bauddhayan Mukherji pointed out that the responsibility of impacting the society cannot lie with films, filmmakers and filmstars alone. “If we are fine with rapes, lynching, mob attacks and engineered riots and no one is supposed to take responsibility towards the growing incidents, then please do not single out films for all the evils in our society! Besides, who decides if the provocation is extreme enough? CBFC? Will the Board now start vetting screenplays?” Mukherji asked.
 
 Director Satish Babusenan said this statement is an indication of the situation having hit an all-time low. “Usually the downfall of people starts when they begin to get out of bounds and out of line. I have a weird feeling this might be his last diktat.”
 
