BENGALURU: Bengaluru has been ranked the most dynamic city in the world, ahead of   and Boston in the US, in a study by   Jones Lang LaSalle (JLL).

 The ranking is based on a broad range of real estate and socio-economic factors.Bengaluru's positioning has been particularly driven by ts successful transitioning to higher-value manufacturing and service-based activities.
 
 The city has improved its ranking ever since it first featured in JLL's City Momentum Index ( ) in 2015. From being ranked 12th, it climbed to the 4th position last year, helped by high demand for commercial office space, an established IT sector, a vibrant startup system and the expansion of the metro railway network.
 
 “The CMI isn't a measure of the “best“ cities in which to invest. It's intended to identify change and highlight which cities or metropolitan areas may be best at positioning themselves to compete in today's ever-changing economic landscape,“ JLL research director Jeremy Kelly said. The list, which features 30 cities, also includes five other Indian cities including Hyderabad (5), Pune (13), Chennai (18), Delhi (23) and Mumbai (25).China has five cities in the list.“India has taken over from China as home to some of the world's most dynamic cities,“ the report said.
 
 JLL said the overriding factors that characterize the world's most dynamic cities are technology and innovation -and cities that best absorb, adapt and leverage these drivers come out on top.
 
 JLL's CMI tracks the speed of change of a city's economy and commercial real estate market. It covers 134 major established and emerging business hubs and identifies cities that have the potential to maintain the greatest dynamism over the short and long term.
 
 The index comprises of 42 variables spread across socioeconomic momentum, commercial real estate momentum and long-term momentum. Economic output and population are among the socio-economic metrics, transparency and absorptions are the check boxes for commercial real estate, and higher education infrastructure and environmental quality are among the long term momentum metrics.
 
 Asia Pacific cities comprise half the top 30 fastest-changing cities. London has fallen from the top spot ­ a position it held for the past two years. But JLL said it has remained “remarkably resilient“ following the Brexit vote, retaining a top 10 ranking. Bengaluru, Hyderabad, & China's Shenzhen, Shanghai and Beijing have been described as `agile high-value emerging cities' ­ high-growth cities in emerging economies.
 
 Chennai, Delhi, Mumbai and Manila are described as `emerging megacities' ­ with populations over 10 million, where growth in domestic corporations and FDI into areas such as business process outsourcing helps to fuel strong momentum. “However, this group faces major infrastructure and quality of life issues, with high levels of inequality , congestion & pollution hindered by weak governance,“ the report said.
 
