CHENNAI: Minutes before the two ships collided near   leading to the leak of bunker oil, the pilot who got off BW Maple warned the ship from the control room at the port that it could collide with  .

  CMD M A Bhaskarachar said the incident was caused by “human error“ and that there was no communication between the two ships at that time.
 
 Director general of ship ping Malini V Shankar, who inspected the ship, said initial assessment revealed that the accident ruptured three tanks. A fourth one is also suspected to have been damaged. A week after the accident, on Monday , P&I insurers of MT Dawn Kanchipuram set up a claims desk for the affected parties to claim compensation.
 
 “There is a system where we ask the captain if they need our assistance once the ship moves out of the port boundary . In this case, the captain said he did not want assistance as they had been visiting regularly,“ Bhaskarachar told reporters on Monday . “The pilot from Maple came back to the signal room at the port 5km away and still kept a watch and informed that the ship will collide. There was no communication between the two ships.“
 
 State fisheries minister D Jayakumar also said, at a separate press meet, the incident was caused by human error.DG Shipping, however, maintained that an inquiry headed by the deputy nautical adviser from Mumbai would reveal the cause of the accident and the quantity of oil leaked. The collision took place on January 28 at 3.45am when M T BW Maple was leaving the port after emptying  , and M T Dawn Kanchipuram loaded with petroleum oil lubricant (POL) was on its way in to berth at the Kamarajar Port.
 
 The tank on the port (left) side of the tanker was damaged in the collision and a part of it pierced into a settling tank while the impact progressed to the Centre tank.
 
 The DG Shipping said they doubted whether the slop tank could also have been ruptured.“The cargo has been offloaded.But we have to clear the tanks of fuel oil for assessment and this may take a few days because it is a huge ship with several tanks inside,“ she said.
 
 “The leak may not have happened immediately .“ Port officials boarded Dawn Kanchipuram soon after the collision at 3.45am on January 28 to assess the situation and initially found that the tank that was ruptured was empty . “It was dark for us to see anything at that time and we suspected only one tank was damaged. But we placed booms to contain the leak around the ship,“ Bhaska rachar said. The coast guard and the DG Shipping were informed much later, after 6am.“The ship informed that one to two tonnes has leaked, but our assessment showed that it was more than 20 tonnes,“ said Rajan Bagrota, IG, coast guard.
 
 The damaged ship was moved back to the port on January 30 after an expert assessed its stability and safety , as there was a fear that it could sink. Simultaneously , notices were issued under section 356(J) and 356 (K) of the Merchant Shipping Act 1958.She said that according to the act, the polluter will compensate and in this case it was Dawn Kanchipuram. The affected parties, including those who incurred expenditure in the oil cleaning process and those who suffered economic loss due to the oil spill, could submit claims to Crowe Boda and Company Private Limited, MLM Building, 9, Wallajah Road, Chennai. They could contact Capt S Prabhakaran at 044 28555412 or email at prabhakaran.sivanesan@jbbodamail.com, crowebodachennai@jbbodamail.com.
 
