PUNE: If you’ve already been ranting about the lack of parking space in Pune, your complaints are set to get much louder. In an attempt to dismantle the free-for-all parking policy that covers 1,800 km of roads in Pune, the   (PMC) is devising a parking policy akin to Mumbai, wherein motorists have to pay for every inch of space they occupy. The policy, apart from generating revenue for PMC, will also keep Punekars healthy, according to the civic chief.

 Barring the Koregaon Park area and  , motorists do not have to pay for parking on public roads. The new policy involves dividing the city into four categories — A, B, C and D — depending on the density of vehicles being parked. The areas where parking on public roads is most sought after will fall in category A and areas where it is sparse, will fall in category D. Vehicle owners will have to pay more in category A as compared to the rest.
 
 The policy will apply uniformly to commercial as well as residential zones. While the former will have parking fees on an hourly basis, monthly passes are being considered for residential areas, where citizens keep their vehicles through the day or night. The policy, however, will not grant you access to No Parking areas. Speaking to Mirror, PMC commissioner, Kunal Kumar, said, “We decided to create a comprehensive parking policy for the entire city which will help boost revenue as well as discourage citizens from using private vehicles within Pune.
 
 As of now, citizens bring their vehicles out even when they have to go pick up milk from a neighbourhood store. Once the new policy is in place, people will think twice before taking their vehicles out of their parking lots.”
 
 Kumar explained that the policy would not only generate Rs 100 crore in revenue annually but also bring down the number of vehicles on the roads. With parking no longer free, he believes citizens will be encouraged to use public transport.
 
 On the implementation level, the city would be divided into zones, each allotted to acontractor, who will have A, B, C and D category parking zones in his allotted zone. Kumar explained that the policy would ensure transparency and that all parking receipts will be electronically generated.
 
 Shriniwas Bonala, city engineer (traffic) in PMC, said, “For the last 15 days, our officials have been collating information on all the roads, No Parking zones and other aspects. We are in constant discussion with traffic cops to ensure that the policy is fair and workable.” He explained that in Peth areas, where there is paucity of space for parking and residents are forced to park on public roads, a monthly pass system would be introduced for night parking.
 
 The policy has evidently stemmed from a similar plan in Mumbai. In 2014, the Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai (MCGM) had introduced a similar policy. However, owing to opposition from residents, it was stalled by the chief minister.
 
 Only recently has MCGM been allowed to implement it on a pilot basis in A ward in South Mumbai, where there is acute shortage of parking in both housing societies and on public roads. As for parking in commercial areas, the rate is now Rs 60 for the first hour. In areas like  , day and night passes have been introduced for residents.
 
 Under the new policy, residents have been asked to approach MCGM through their housing societies for allotment of parking slots on public roads. Once a society pays a monthly fee, a certain number of slots are allotted. The area is marked and only residents of that society may park there. The entire city has been divided into zones, depending on the demand for parking. For now, in South Mumbai, MCGM has decided to charge Rs 1,800 per month from residents. This has been fixed at Rs 1,200 and Rs 600 for western suburbs and central suburbs respectively.
 
