NAGPUR: A new feather was added in the cap of the Super Speciality Hospital (SSH) in Government Medical College on Friday. Doctors here performed the first ever cadaveric (from a brain dead patient) kidney transplant on a 60-year-old man. Since the donor was from Amravati, the donated organs, two kidneys and liver were sent to Nagpur and Mumbai respectively. It was the first ever cadaveric donation of Amravati city.

 The liver was flown to   in a chartered flight. A team of doctors from Mumbai headed by Dr Prashant Rao had flown in to harvest and fly the liver back. Another team for kidney comprising of Dr Sanjay Kolte, urosurgeon for SSH, Dr Dhananjay Bokare, urosurgeon from Care Hospital, and Dr  , nephrologist, Care Hospital, left for Amravati in a car at 8 am in the morning, reached there around 10 am, harvested the kidneys and travelled back to Nagpur in two hours to reach here by 2.45 pm.
 
 The Amravati police provided a green corridor to the Mumbai team till the Belora airport in Amravati and till Teosa (border between Amravati district and Nagpur district). As kidneys can be transplanted within 24 hours of harvesting, the Nagpur team didn’t demand a green corridor as it had enough time. But liver has to be transplanted within six hours of the harvest and hence had to be airlifted.
 
 The entire exercise started on Thursday evening at around 6 pm when the donor, a 27-year-old student, was declared brain dead by the Radiance Hospital at Amravati after suffering a brain stroke. The family expressed willingness to donate his organs. Radiance team consisting of Dr Mahendra Chouhan, Dr Pawan Agrawal, Dr Sikandar Advani and Dr Anand Kakani tried to convince the family to donate heart, kidney and liver, but the family refused heart donation.
 
 The team informed the Zonal Transplant Coordination Committee (ZTCC) Nagpur about the organs’ availability. Dr  , president, and Dr Ravi Wankhede, secretary ZTCC informed the ZTCC Mumbai that allocated the liver to Global Hospitals as per waiting list and availability of AB+ve recipient (which is rare). “It is a good example of multi-organ donation for other small towns like Akola to initiate cadaveric donations,” said Dr Wankhede. Nagpur ZTCC allocated the one kidney each to SSH and Care Hospital.
 
 The recipient’s son at SSH told TOI his father was registered at the SSH and ZTCC since May 27, 2015. “It is a great feeling. My father is AB+ve which is a rare blood group for matching of kidneys. Hence he had to wait so long,” he said.
 
 SSH team, which conducted the first cadaveric transplant and supported the procedure, included Dr Sanjay Kolte, Dr Dhananjay Selokar and Dr Kunal Meshram as urosurgeons, Dr   and Dr Vishal Ramteke and Dr Sameer Chaubey as nephrologists and Dr Vijay Sortey, Dr Amol Thakre and Dr Yogesh Zawar as anaesthetists.
 
 The Care Hospital team consisted of Dr Dhananjay Bokare, urosurgeon and Dr Prakash Khetan, nephrologist.
 
