
  The farewell of the BBA-2014 batch of the   (IMS), Noida, was an evening full of fun. The juniors had planned the evening to include entertaining acts and performances. While the girls from the outgoing batch were dressed in Indian formals, the guys opted to wear western suits. The college has a specific uniform for the   students, and so this was a 'relief' for the outgoing batch since they got to wear their own outfits inside the campus. "This was a relief. We were bored of wearing the same old uniform in college. So we suggested 'ethnic' as the theme of our farewell, and our HoD agreed. It's such a pleasant change," said one of the outgoing students.

  
  
 
 
  
  DRAAMEBAAZ: The graduating students relived their three-years in campus on their farewell
 
 
  
 
  After entertaining performances by the juniors, a fashion show was also held as part of the farewell. The outgoing students also received various titles like Miss Perfect, Chhupa Rustam, Mr Quizzer, Mr Khiladi No1, Miss Studious, Mr Coordinator, Real Hero, Mr Funtoosh, Miss Proper Patola, Miss Million Dollar Smile and the Hunk of IMS. Finally, Pawas Piyush and Aastha Jaiswal won the Mr and Ms Adieu titles. Pawas said, "I am feeling ecstatic. It was an honour."
 
  
  Dressed in traditionals, the outgoing students made it a point to capture all the special moments (BCCL/ Lokesh Kashyap)
 
  With the DJ waale babu playing peppy numbers, the event ended on a high note. While the latest dance numbers were expected, he also played some evergreen tracks like 'Jumma Chumma De De' and 'Tu Cheez Badi Hai Mast Mast'. To our surprise, the students enjoyed these tracks even more. Chitrangad Kashyap, an outgoing student, said, "I love to dance, so I am enjoying the DJ part of the evening. We've always concentrated more on academics than on co-curriculars, so today, I am enjoying this light-hearted event." Mayank Bhardwaj, one of the graduating students, said, "These are our last moments in this college. The teachers have been very supportive, and the juniors have been very sweet. This is family. We'll still be connected, but I will always cherish the moments I have spent here."
 
  
  Sarthak Nagar received the title 'Mr Hunk of IMS' (BCCL/ Lokesh Kashyap)
 
  
  Aastha Jaiswal, Ms Adieu, performed in the talent round (BCCL/ Lokesh Kashyap)
 
 
