NEW DELHI: A bench headed by   chief justice P K Mohanty on June 7 ordered the audit of three institutions - Jharkhand State Legal Services Authority, the state judicial academy and the National University of Study and Researching Law, Ranchi. Nothing unusual but for the fact that the chief justice was the patron-in-chief of the first two bodies and chancellor of NUSRL.

 But days after   retired, on June 20, another bench stopped the audit, saying it was ordered without notice to the institutions and could have an adverse effect on their reputation. 
 
  As chief justice, Justice Mohanty had received a letter from an individual,  , on May 5 alleging mismanagement and misutilisation of funds by JHALSA, the judicial academy and NUSRL. Taking suo motu cognisance of the letter and converting it into a writ petition, the bench of Justices Mohanty and Gupta on June 7 ordered, "Having regard to the nature of allegations and for ensuring transparency in administration and in the interest of justice, it is deemed proper that the accounts of the aforesaid institutions be audited by the principal accountant general, Jharkhand." The bench also asked the comptroller and auditor general to monitor the auditing. 
 
  As the head of these institutions and as chief justice of the HC, Justice Mohanty must have been aware of the effect the order passed by him and Justice   would have on the reputation of these institutions. Days after Justice Mohanty's retirement, applications were filed by these institutions for recall of the June 7 order. A bench of Justices S   and Gupta found merit in the applications and quoted a 1863 English court judgment to say, "Even God himself did not pass sentence upon Adam before he was called upon to make his defence." 
 
  The applicants, through counsel A R Choudhary, said the HC could not have taken suo motu cognisance of an anonymous letter, making "sweeping allegations against the chief justice of the HC and the institutions, of which the chief justice is the patron-in-chief or chancellor". State counsel D K Dubey supported Choudhary . 
 
  In a classic case of shootin g the messenger, the bench headed by Justice Chandrashekhar said, "We have carefully seen the contents of the May 5 letter by one Animesh Kumar, who has neither disclosed his identity nor parentage nor mentioned his address. Any harm to the applicant institutions would definitely erode public confidence in these institutions and it would not be in public interest. After all, one lives by his reputation ." 
 
 
