GURGAON: The brother of slain gangster   and the alleged mastermind behind the murder of rival gangster Binder Gujjar’s brother Manish has been arrested, along with his two accomplices, near Garhi Harsaru village on Wednesday afternoon.

 Cops said the three accused have revealed that Binder, who is currently in Bhondsi jail, and his younger brother Manoj are their next target. On Monday, Rohtak police arrested four sharpshooters of the Gadoli gang, who had confessed to killing Manish. Gurgaon police will soon take the four into custody on transit remand for interrogation.
 
 Acting on a tip-off, a team led by inspector Amit Kumar of crime unit Sector 46 intercepted near Garhi Harsaru village a Scorpio in which Gadoli’s brother Brahm Prakash alias Master, and his two accomplices — Love Sharma, a resident of   village, and  , a resident of Gurgaon village — were travelling and arrested them.
 
 “Brahm Prakash had hatched the plan to eliminate Manish to take revenge for the alleged fake encounter of Gadoli in Mumbai last year. He finalised the deal with sharpshooter   and provided him with arms. The trio has revealed that Binder and Manoj are also on their hit list,” Sumit Kuhar, DCP (crime), Gurgaon, said.
 
 He added, “We will produce the accused in the court on Thursday and seek their remand for interrogation. We will also take on transit remand the four sharpshooters who were arrested by Rohtak police with illegal arms on Monday night.”
 
 Rohtak police had on Monday arrested three sharpshooters of Gadoli gang — Dinesh alias Sonu, a resident of Mokhra village in Rohtak; Monu alias Pop and Deepal alias Deepu, both from Kansala in Rohtak; and Ravikant alias Pawwa, a resident of Gadoli Khurd village in Gurgaon — while they were trying to rob passersby near IMT Rohtak on Kheri Sadh Road.
 
 Cops said that almost all those involved in the murder of Manish, a liquor businessman who was killed on October 17, have now been arrested. “Only Sudesh, Gadoli’s sister, and gangster Kaushal are still absconding in the case. They will also be arrested soon,” said Sanjeev Balhara, ACP (crime).
 
 Sandeep, who had 36 cases registered against him and carried a reward of Rs 1.25 lakh, was killed in an alleged fake encounter by Gurgaon police in a Mumbai hotel on February 7 last year. It was alleged that the murder plan was hatched by rival gangster, Brijendar Gujjar, from Bhonsi jail in Gurgaon.
 
 A few days later, Sandeep’s elder brother Kuldeep had approached the Bombay high court, urging it to order the lodging of an FIR and judicial inquiry against Gurgaon cops who carried out the alleged encounter. Subsequently, eight persons, including five Gurgaon cops and Sandeep’s girlfriend, were booked for murder and a special investigation team (SIT) was also formed by Mumbai police. Six out of the eight were arrested and are now in jail.
 
 
