BENGALURU: Do you know that over 200 trucks transport granite from the outskirts of   (BNP) every day? Rampant and illegal use of dynamite in quarrying and stone crushing is said to have wreaked havoc on this eco-sensitive zone (ESZ) of the park, degrading the fragile habitat. Civic activists and environmentalists have now launched an online campaign demanding the state government act fast and save the forests.

 The campaign titled,   National Park In Grave Danger -Act Now! hosted on http:www.conservationindia.org, a non-profit portal dedicated to wildlife and nature conservation, calls upon citizens to sign a letter urging government officials concerned to take urgent action to save Bengaluru's beloved Bannerghatta.
 
 Tejus R S, a wildlife enthusiast, said quarrying has been going on unchecked in Ragihalli and   villages adjacent to the park. “The same is destroying families and endangering wildlife, as stones rain down upon their homes every day . The ministry of environment, forests and climate change (MoEFCC) has issued a notification constitut ing the ESZ with width ranging from 100mts to 4.5km from the national park boundary. The notification categorizes stone quarrying and crushing as prohibited activities. Local politi cians with vested interests in stone quarrying are now trying their best to dilute the ESZ notification by further reducing the area,“ he added, quoting the campaign petition. Wildlife activists said conservation of the park spread over 100sqkm and located just 21km from the heart of the city is necessary as it's home to endangered species like ele phants, leopards, wild dogs, sloth bears, gaurs, sambars and pangolins, apart from a large number of amphibians, reptiles and birds.
 
 Saiprasad Seshadri, an IT solutions expert, who has extended his support to the campaign, said, “It's time we rose in one voice and salvaged what is left of Bannerghatta. Landsharks with vested interests have destroyed the eco-system already . Let us unite and preserve the remains.“
 
 Campaign coordinators say once they get enough signatures the letter will be submitted to the additional chief secretary ­ forests, ecology & environment; chairman, Karnataka State Pollution Control Board; chief wildlife warden, Karnataka forest department, and the director, mines & geology , Karnataka.
 
