PUNE: The Bharatiya Janata Party’s saffron surge has bipolarized state politics with   and Nationalist Congress Party stalwarts on Tuesday saying that it’s going to be   versus others in Maharashtra’s political arena.

 On the last day of   — a seven-day march by opposition parties demanding complete waiver of agriculture loans — state Congress president Ashok Chavan, NCP state president Sunil Tatkare,   state chief Abu Azmi and leaders of other parties, including AIMIM, Republican Party (Kawade group) and Shetkari Kamgar Paksha, announced a united front against the BJP government. The leaders didn’t deny the possibility to going ahead with their unity in the 2019 general elections to prevent the BJP from coming to power again.
 
 “ Even as the Sangharsh Yatra comes to an end, it is not the end of our united effort against the BJP government. We(opposition parties) will have a united stand and will remain united in the future. The government is trying to use the divide and rule policy, but we will not succumb to its tactic. We will think of a common minimum programme and the possible political equations,” said Ashok Chavan. The Sangharsh Yatra has put pressure on the government and it had to withdraw its circular asking banks to recover loans from the insurance amount, he claimed 
 
 Sunil Tatkare, state president of the NCP, said, “It is a fact that BJP’s politics has led to bipolarizing of political forces. As of now, we want the farm loans waived of.” The BJP government has lost its credibility, he added.
 
 Congress leader and former chief minister Prithviraj Chavan and former deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar were present at the joint press conference. When asked if both of them were comfortable travelling together during the Sangharsh Yatra, Chavan said, “We have worked together for four-and-a-half years in the government and hence there are no issues.” Pawar and NCP leaders have been blaming Chavan for becoming a hurdle in the NCP-Congress alliance during the last Assembly elections. Interestingly, Congress leaders denied that the NCP was having an upper hand in the Sangharsh Yatra saying that leaders from both the parties had an understanding.
 
 Leader of the opposition in the state legislative council   said, “The BJP leaders are targeting us for travelling in airconditioned bus. I have been a part and witness to many   by BJP in the past and I know how luxuriously its leaders lived and travelled. They don’t have any right to target us”.
 
  stays away but targets BJP
 
 Even as BJP’s alliance partner the Shiv Sena stayed away from the Sangharsh Yatra, its leaders continued to target the BJP government. Sena’s mouthpiece   criticized the government over farmers’ suicides and said the government was trying to stop slaughtering of cow but was pushing farmers to a situation where they have no other option than to commit suicide.
 
