KOLKATA: The   (KMC) officials, accompanied by police, on Sunday morning began covering with net the windows of the flats, affected by 'pigeon menace', at   apartment complex in Gariahat. The civic body began the work following an order issued by the   on March 1.

 However, the civic body officials were not allowed to enter the top-floor flat of bird lover   that is also suppose to be netted. Ghosh allegedly feeds grains to thousands of pigeons on the roof, apparently making the life of other residents a “veritable hell“. With Ghosh's refusal to cooperate, the problem remained unresolved as pigeons would keep invading the apartment as they had been doing for a decade, said a resident.
 
 Earlier on Friday, the residents of Megha Mallar had staged an agitation in front of Gariahat police station for non-compliance of NGT orders by the cops and the civic body.
 
 Advocate  , who filed the case with   on behalf of the Megha Mallar residents, said Ghosh's refusal was a clear act of contempt of court. “I am to submit a status report to the NGT after three months. If the situation does not change, I will point out the contempt of the court.The NGT had ordered netting of the windows of affected flats including Ghosh's house. Moreover, the KMC was asked to cover the rooftop with net.
 
 The NGT has asked residents to earmark a 200sq-ft area for feeding pigeons and to bear the cost of it. The residents have reportedly done so. The KMC employees have put net to the other designated places, except for Ghosh's windows. The officials have put iron net on the roof and around the windows of four flats.
 
 The bird lover however, claimed she was not defying the court order but championing the spirit of the order.“In the order, the court said the birds must not be harmed. Depriving them of enough food is also harming them. How can you expect the birds consume grains off the ground suddenly? It is like watering a tree after uprooting it. The residents threw grains on the ground everyday but not a single grain was nibbled by any bird. Moreover, the court asked the KMC to put net in front of flat 10C1, and not my balcony .“
 
 Ghosh said she had suggested she would use the roof for feeding the birds at a designated time when other residents do not use it. “I proposed I would clean and maintain the roof and if necessary , pay a rental to the society. But my proposal was rejected,“ said Ghosh.
 
