VADODARA: Till 1979, she wanted to be a successful painter. But destiny had something else in store for 61-year-old Nina Sabnani, an alumnus of fine arts faculty of M S University. 

 Sabnani has been selected for a   award in animation film category to be given away by President   in New Delhi on Wednesday. Nina has won the award for her film ‘Hum Chitra Banate Hain’ that is based on the Bhil community from Madhya Pradesh. 
 
 “I never thought I will win the national award. It’s unbelievable but I am very happy as this is my first national award,” said an elated Nina who works with the Industrial Design Centre in IIT Bombay. 
 
 When asked why she chose to make a film on the tribals, Nina said, “I had met an artist from Bhopal in 2013 and saw his beautiful painting. When I asked him why he paints, he told me an interesting story. He said that long ago their village didn’t get rains that led to shortage of water.” 
 
 “The tribals went to a soothsayer who asked them to paint trees on walls of their homes. They followed his suggestion and soon it rained. Since then the Bhil community took to painting. I found the story interesting and decided to make an animation film on them,” Nina, who has won nearly 25 awards in animation film making, told TOI. 
 
 She began working on the film in 2014 and finished it last year. Her film, story of which is being narrated by a rooster, focusses on the tribals and their art. Nina had never planned to get into animation film making as she wanted to paint. “I used to hang out at the fine arts faculty after graduating. Once noted artist Jeram Patel, who used to teach at fine arts faculty, suggested that I should join animation course at   in Ahmedabad. I was bit skeptical but I applied for the course and got in,” Nina, whose family stays in Vadodara, said. She later took to teaching animation in NID before shifting to Mumbai in 2006. 
 
 Nina has made several animation films for Doordarshan apart from commercials. “The national award has motivated me to make one more film,” she said. 
 
 
