PUNE: The Indian army’s   (ALC) will soon start providing the latest microprocessor-controlled prosthetic limbs, also known as  , to soldiers who have suffered injuries in the line of duty, resulting in their legs being amputated. 

 The new limb, say army doctors, will offer the beneficiary greater stability, mobility and will improve their quality of life. A senior ALC officer told TOI, “In the first phase, we will provide the limb to only services personnel, considering the budgetary constraints. The cost of one limb is estimated at Rs10 lakh. In the second phase, the facility will be extended to civilians with apt discount.” 
 
 According to the officer, the bionic limb will help provide major relief to wounded soldiers as it is expected to speed up their recovery from injuries. Western countries are already providing such limbs to their wounded soldiers. This has also helped some soldiers develop an interest in Para sports.
 
 Army sources said that the ALC will procure the limbs from leading multinational companies that are already supplying to the armed forces in western countries. “We have identified three such leading companies that have their own technical teams. These teams will work in tandem with our experts at the initial stage to know our requirements,” an army officer added.
 
 Another senior army officer, who is aware of the development, said, “Armed forces in western countries are already getting such advanced limbs that help the beneficiary recover fast and rejoin their duties confidently. We also want to provide such limbs to our soldiers so that they can also recover quickly and join duty at the earliest.” 
 
 Although ALC was raised with the primary objective of meeting the prosthetic and orthotic requirements of   of the armed forces, from 1951 the facilities were gradually extended to civilians as well. 
 
 An ALC officer said, “It will not be possible to extend this particular facility to civilian patients owing to budgetary constraints. Our endeavour is to provide it mainly to wounded soldiers and thereafter to veterans.” Army sources said that sizeable number of army personnel gets injuries in the line of duty, particularly in Jammu and Kashmir and  . 
 
 An army officer, who is an amputee, currently serving in the force, shared, “The decision will be a game changer for the wounded soldiers since it has multiple benefits. It will reduce the rehabilitation period of wounded soldiers, which is very crucial.”
 
