VADODARA: Fourteen-year-old   had a tough life until a year ago. His parents were alcohol addicts, and in an 11-member family, where managing food was hard enough, the question of education didn’t even arise.

 The situation was tougher, because Kidishiya belongs to a community whose members seasonally migrate to other parts of the state taking along their children, and thus closing doors to their formal education.
 
 But, now he is studying in standard VII in his village’s primary school. Kidishiya’s case is one of many when it comes to children of Kukarda village in tribal people dominated Naswadi taluka in Chhota Udepur. Most have been able to join the school for the first time or rejoin after a long time.
 
 The numbers in the village’s primary and high schools have gone up after a hostel has come up in the village with efforts of villagers. Alpesh Barot, a social worker from  , and who is now one of the 3,155 residents of Kukarda, had floated the idea of the hostel.
 
 Nanji Dungra Bhil, a senior citizen of the village, readily gave his house with four rooms to Barot to start the hostel. Nanji asked his four sons to shift to a smaller house in the village and told Barot that as long as children of the village benefit, he was game for living in a smaller abode.
 
 Today, in a year’s time, the hostel is home to 17 children and this has resulted in increase in number of students at high school from five to 20. In a taluka where the literacy rate is 47.2%, this comes as a major change. In fact, Kidishiya’s parents, who did not care about their son’s education even a year ago tells Barot, “Sahebda tu kare te nakki.” (Whatever you do sir, is final).
 
 Spread over 12 square kilometres, Kukarda village is home to people belonging to Dungra Bhil community for centuries. The majority of the population migrate to different parts of   to find labour work. As families shift base, education of the children suffers.
 
 To stop this, Barot, who had come to Kukarda in 2011 for a   project, came up with the idea of starting a hostel for schoolchildren. He readily received support of the village elders who knew him through his last stint.
 
 Nanji is one of those, and so is Bhikha Tadvi, who donates vegetables for children of the hostel. Barot told TOI that the village elders want to generate employment opportunities in the village itself, so that residents do not have to migrate in search of work and their children stay at the village and study in its schools.
 
 Despite their own lack of formal education, many villagers have now started to realize that education is the only weapon to root out social vices like child labour and child marriage.
 
 Barot says the villagers have now started to hold nightly meetings to discuss social issues, education being a foremost concern. Now, they plan to promote education from kindergarten level.
 
 The results of Integrated Child Development Scheme in the entire district aren’t so encouraging, said Barot. But, in Kukarda, the villagers are going to start a concept similar to anganwadis under the name of Bhulka Bhavan.
 
 “It appears as if it will be difficult to manage the hostel in the future, and soon the Bhulka Bhavan. But the support from villagers, and whatever little donation the initiative receives, will make the work easy,” Barot said.
 
 Kukarda, a village where there is no mobile network and to talk on phone villagers have to go a nearby hillock, is now staring at a change that no village in this tribal-dominated region would have thought of.
 
 
