NEW DELHI: Sunday’s   that killed three people, including a   officer, has raised questions about Delhi Police’s system of placing its personnel for security of persons under threat. 

 Despite having two personal security officers (PSOs) guarding him, alleged gangster Monu Dariyapur got killed. Sources said the policemen were not even in uniform. There was a possibility that ASI Vijay Singh would have been spared if the shooters could identify him from the uniform, they added.
 
 The allegation of Dariyapur’s family that the security was often removed is another point of concern as the security cover was supposed to be constant till the removal of threat factors — Sonu Dariyapur and his associates.
 
 As per the Delhi Police rules, after a person approaches the police commissioner seeking  , a team of the Special Cell convenes a high-level meeting to analyse his threat perception. Based on this analysis, the person is provided X-, Y- or Z-category security. If a person appearing as a witness in a case approaches a court seeking protection, the threat perception will be decided by district DCPs.
 
 However, out of more than 1,400 people being provided security, many flaunt it as a status symbol, alleged sources. Hence, the PSOs are often allowed to perform duties in plain clothes. 
 
 Around 150 people are provided X- or Y-category security for threats due to property disputes or from gangsters. Almost one-fifth of them are family members of several gangsters based in southwest and outer Delhi.
 
 In case of X- and Y-category security, six security officers are selected from regular ranks posted at a police station. However, the PSOs, who are to provide a round-the-clock cover, are usually clueless about the threat perception and generally depend on occasional chats with the person under threat to get an idea about the challenge they face. 
 
 Several senior police officers admitted that the level of alertness of the PSOs reduces due to their ignorance about the threat.
 
 Constable Kuldeep, who was on PSO duty during such an attack, claimed that when the criminals had started firing, he decided to run away to save himself as the criminals presumed him to be a friend of the target. 
 
 Sources have also pointed out that businessman Ponty Chaddha was also killed in 2012 despite having five security officers around him. 
 
 
