CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu dairy development minister K   on Wednesday courted controversy by alleging that preservatives in milk and milk products of private producers were the cause for cancer in many children. 

 The allegation made by the minister on a Tamil television channel evoked strong protests. He said people should think twice before consuming milk sold by private dairies and that the milk produced by Aavin, the state milk marketing federa tion, was safe.
 
 Samples of the milk have been sent to a lab in Pune and if the reports showed presen ce of harmful chemicals, action would be taken, he warned dairies. Earlier, at a function in Erode, the minister accused private producers of adding chemicals to increase the shelf life of their products.
 
 Private milk producers constitute nearly 50% of the market in Chennai. The minister speaking to the TV channel said he was collecting details of private milk producers using preservatives or chemicals to increase the shelf life of their products.“Normally , soon after the cow or buffalo is milked, the milk will remain unspoilt for nearly five hours.
 
  This is the case with unadulterated milk.But there is milk produced by private producers which is fine for consumption for several days. This is possible only if preservatives had been added,“ said the minister.
 
 Aavin has a market share of 45% while the remaining big and small private milk producers constitute the rest of the market. “It is only due to consumption of milk of   that many children are afflicted with various diseases including cancer. I am collecting reports from various sources. I don't want to ban all the private producers without proper proof. Once I get the reports I will confront them with the proof and take action," said Bhalaji.
 
 Both private milk producers as well as distributors are aghast at the charges made by the minister. “The milk collected from dairy farmers are taken in 40 refrigerated vehicles to the plant. At the plant, the milk is stored at a certain temperature for processing and packed and sent to the market.
 
  At no stage do we use additives or preservatives. Out plant is open for scrutiny by experts and media,“ a managing director of a private milk company told TOI.
 
 Milk distributors accuse the government of ignoring their demands for a monitoring mechanism in the wake of a Supreme Court verdict in 2012. “We petitioned the chief minister's cell as well the dairy development minister and its secretary after the Supreme Court delivered a judgement warning stringent action against milk adulteration. The government failed to act and is now hurling charges of adulteration at private milk producers,"said Tamil Nadu Milk Distributors Welfare Association president  
 
 He asked the government to identify companies which are involved in adulteration and take necessary action. “The government must immediately   to check the quality of milk and take action then and there. Stringent laws must be passed to punish those  ," said Ponnusamy .
 
