BHUBANESWAR: At about 7 p.m. on Friday,   Bibi heard a knock at her door. The 31-year-old wife of a scrap collector found a few men standing outside her humble dwelling in the city's  . She could hardly believe her ears when the men -- executives from state-run fuel retailers IndianOil and   -- said her household will mark the two crore milestone in Ujjwala, the Narendra Modi government's scheme for providing free   connection to poor families. 

 Bibi symbolises the government's feat of accomplishing in 11 months the task of reaching 33% more households than was planned for in 2016-17. A fact that was yet to sink into her when she received the connection on Saturday from oil minister   at a function to mark Utkal Diwas (Odisha Day) and formally launch BS-IV grade fuel supplies throughout the country. 
 
 But she is excited about the promise of LPG changing her life for the better. " I feel good that I am among the two crore poor families. I have seen in my neighbourhood that women from families with LPG don't have to start their day at four in the morning so that they can finish chores at home before going to collect firewood like I do," a visibly emotional Bibi told TOI.
 
 Bibi's husband S K Faku earns Rs 100-200 a day. She supplements this earning by working as a part-time cook in a wealthy family to support her four children and mother-in-law, besides husband. This takes a heavy physical toll -- cooking morning meals for the family, collecting firewood, going to work and then come back home in the evening to cook dinner.
 
 The biggest change she's looking forward to is the freedom from constant coughing due to smoke from firewood. But can she afford to buy a refill? "Bilkul! Isi amdani se bachat kar ke ho jayega (Of course! We will save from this income itself to pay for cylinder)," she said. And what does she have to say to the next three crore poor women who will get Ujjwala connections by 2019? "Yehi kahungi ki unke liye bahut achcha hoga. (All I can say is it will be very good for them".
 
