 Bareilly: In what is seen as mounting another layer of problem to the existing traffic woes, the traffic lights functional at only two crossings in the city have now run out of order. Even as the city administration make big claims of turning fortunes of the city, the basic amenities of traffic signal at important crossings remain a pressing concern as traffic at most of the crossings is either on its own or barely maneuvered by home guard personnel.   Despite the traffic chaos, no efforts have been taken by the authorities concerned to get the defunct traffic lights repaired at the two prominent junctions- Satellite crossing and Chowki crossing, even as these have been leading to traffic congestion, for nearly a week now. In the absence of traffic lights, the commuters can be seen trying to cross over to the other side amidst the chaotic traffic.    “Vehicular movement at Satellite crossing is high even during off-peak hours as the junction connects Bareilly city to Lucknow. Besides, the Satellite bus-stand along the junction leads to heavy rush here. Even deployment of constables does not help regulate vehicles at the junction, said, Pankaj Goel, a resident of Kalibaadi Despite knowing the traffic conditions across the city, authorities concerned have failed to take any measures to curb the situation, he added.    Another resident, Suresh Kumar, a resident of Civil Lines, said, “The situation is worst at Chowki crossing as it the most prominent junction of the city which connects Civil Lines, Cantonment, Rampur Garden, Ayub Khan crossing, Station road and Choupla crossing. Even policemen are not there to regulate the traffic at times, especially during the evening hours.”    At present, there are four major junctions in the city- Satellite crossing, Chowki crossing, Choupla crossing and Ayub Khan crossing. Of these places, traffic lights at only two junctions- Satellite crossing and Chowki crossing were functional, however, which have been lying defunct for over 5 days now. Resultant, problem of traffic is aggravated in the city. All these places are being manned by traffic cops.    Speaking to TOI, additional municipal commissioner, Eesh Shakti Singh, said, “We have contacted the private agency which had installed the traffic signals in the city. Soon, the lights will be repaired. We have directed the traffic police to deploy personnel to regulate the traffic on busy intersections where the traffic signals are non-functional.”