To you, Spiderman might be a superhero, Bakra's a goat and  , a vegetable. To the Ahmedabad crime world, these are aliases of criminals as colourful as their personas. Crime is perhaps the only profession where having an ominously threatening nickname is a good career move. Where Mumbai has `Tiger' Memon or `Chhota' Rajan, Ahmedabad has its own line-up of felons, identified by their aliases got from their looks, habits, modus operandi or physical traits.

 Ahmedabad's Spiderman is no cute crime-fighting webslinger. He is 32-year-old Omkar Bhadoria, a resident of Ranip, who has been named in more than 50 cases of murder, loot and burglaries. “His special skill is using pipes to break into houses at night. He targets houses on the topmost floor of a building. He slides down the pipe from the terrace to the house, burgles it and slides down the pipe to safety even as people look for him on the stairs or the terrace,“ said police.
 
 Interestingly, Bhadoria does not flee the society. “He crawls up the pipes to the terrace in an adjacent building tower and spends the night there.When dawn breaks, he escapes with the loot. He also keeps changing his house frequently to avoid getting caught,“ said the police, who gave him the nickname after discovering his modus operandi.
 
 Usually, the police have a limited role in the `naamkaran' of goons. Often, their gang members or locals give them such singular sobriquets. “The names give them a unique identity. It also strikes fear in the hearts of locals and rivals,“ said a senior officer.
 
  
  
 
 Kalupur residents Satish Ruparelia and Raju Panchal murdered a businessman in Shahibaug, cut off his head and dumped it at Adalaj ni Vaav in the early 90's. “When they went to jail, Ruparelia got the name `Badi Mundi' while Panchal became `Chhoti Mundi,“ he said. Similarly, Kalu `Gardan' of   who was arrested for his alleged involvement in the murder of social activist Nadeem Saiyed earned the nickname because he would always attack his victim on the neck first.
  
 “When the details of such men are entered into our records, we retain the nicknames to help us identify them easily,“ said police.
 
 This might be a tad difficult when it comes to Bakra, or should that be  ? Vijay `Bakra' Chunara of Gota is an expert chain-snatcher and burglar. “The 34-year-old has terrible hygiene. He hates taking baths and stinks so much that even when we arrest him, we make him stand downwind to avoid gagging,“ said a crime branch official. Smelly as a goat, it is easy to deduce how he ended up with his nickname.
 
 Then, there's Ajay `Bakra' of Sardarnagar who is notorious for stealing laptops, as well as snatching chains and cash. “He is always seen chom ping on vegetables. He will walk past vegetable laaris and pick up carrots, radishes, tomatoes to munch. Due to this habit, people began calling him bakra,“ said police.
 
 Zakir Shaikh Vejalpur is `Chuha' because he is sharp as a rat and tough to catch. “Shaikh, who is involved in about 20 cases of house break-ins, has sharp hearing which alerts him to the presence of people. He scuttles away, abandoning his work rather than be caught,“ said police.
 
 Ritesh Garange of Kubernagar who specialises in stealing laptops from cars is known as `Andho' as he acts blind and fools his victims into belie ving he is innocent. “When the victim looks elsewhere, Garange will steal laptops or other valuables from the vehicle within seconds. He operates mainly in areas like Satellite and CG Road,“ said police.
 
  of Vatva, who is accused of theft and robbery, is called Pappayyu by his gang as the 48-yearold's face resembles the papaya fruit.Gufran Pathan (37) of Rakhial who is accused of theft and loot is known as Hanuman due to his resemblance to the Monkey God.
 
 `Mungdo' is the moniker of Rajesh Jiliya, a 35-year-old from Kubernagar who steals insignificant things inclu ding animals like goats. “He hardly speaks. So, people call him mungdo (dumb),“ said police.
 
 Aman Pathan, a 43-year-old from Juhapura who was charged with theft and possession of arms is known as `Bhangariyo', because he was a scrap dealer before he turned to crime. Kirit `Dhoom' got his nickname after a tipoff led cops to him for masterminding highway robberies using high-speed bikes. His MO was similar to ones used in the movie `Dhoom' and his gang members christened him with the nickname.
 
 In many cases, gang mates and even the police don't know the real names of the gangsters since they are known only by their nicknames. DCP Deepen Bhadran said, “Aliases of names are an important part of police records and it plays a significant role in crime detection. Many criminals are known by their aliases whereas their names may not strike a chord.“
 
