AHMEDABAD:   (OCM), a drive initiated by the Union finance ministry, has found that 110   falling in the income tax department’s Rajkot centre had deposited Rs 190 crore cash during  . 

 During the drive, discrepancies to the tune of Rs 10 core surfaced during surveys in the districts of Rajkot, Jamnagar, Gandhidham, Junagadh, Morbi, and Bhuj.
 
 Petrol pumps in the I-T department’s centres in Rajkot, Surat, and Ahmedabad came under the scanner after a survey found that petrol pumps had converted unaccounted for cash. I-T department officials said that the petrol pumps converted high-value demonetized currency when a relaxation of norms was declared from November 9 to December 13. The petrol pumps sold fuel by taking Rs 1,000 and Rs 500 notes, which had been rendered illegal on November 8 last year.
 
 The OCM status report under the category of “Unexplained Cash Deposits by Petrol pumps” says that petrol pumps deposited unaccounted for cash by passing them off as earnings from sales, which turned out to be fictitious. “The analysis of cash deposits during the demonetization period has revealed that on an average, one-fifth of cash deposited by the petrol pumps was over and above the sales made in the corresponding period,” the report says.
 
 “Demonetization data was compared with average monthly sales of the previous year,” the report says. “Bank statements were also scrutinized for further analysis, taking into account factors such as periodicity and magnitude of cash receipts and payments. Where deviations were observed beyond 25%, the cases were selected for survey, as the government had allowed petrol pumps to accept SBN (specified bank notes of Rs 1,000 and Rs 500) against sales during demonetization. The exercise led to the detection of discrepancies of more than Rs 10 crore in nine surveys.”
 
 I-T officials said that survey operations were conducted in petrol pumps in Rajkot, Surat, and Ahmedabad. “We conducted survey operations in March in which irregularities came to the fore,” said an I-T official. “We had sent a report to the Central Board of Direct Taxes of the finance ministry by the end of March.”
 
 The official said: “Financial transactions of petrol pumps in Surat and Ahmedabad are being analyzed and the findings may be released soon.”
 
 
