JAIPUR: The ministry of culture has released an amount of Rs 2.85 crore for the Bikaner   under the Tagore Cultural Complexes (TCC) scheme. The project that had commenced in 2006 is likely to see completion with the release of the funds from the ministry.

 According to Mahaveer Ranka, chairman UIT Bikaner, “The release of funds from the ministry would help us finish the project that the UIT started in 2006 but had to stop in between for paucity of funds. However, in 2014 we restarted the work and the auditorium is almost finished with only the amphitheater and the lighting pending. The total project cost is Rs 9.50 crore and now only Rs 38 lakh needs to be chipped in.”
 
 The Rabindra Rang Manch has been made under the ministry of culture scheme for renovation, restoration, upgrading and modernization of existing facilities of auditorium. The project is on a 60:40 ratio basis where 40% cost will be borne by the state. The 650-seat auditorium also has a facility that can be used for an art gallery and has a cafeteria. 
 
 In the VIII Five Year Plan (1992-97), a scheme for grant of financial assistance to state governments/state-sponsored bodies for setting up Multi-Purpose Cultural Complexes (MPCCs) was introduced with the objective of improving the quality of life of our young people by making them sensitive to what is aesthetically and morally good in the society and exposing them to the finest forms of creative action. “Under the scheme, cultural complexes were set up in the states, for coordinating and fostering activities in various cultural fields, such as music, dance, drama, literature, fine arts, etc. But it’s sad that the design of the rang manch is really not befitting to theatre and the government did not even consult the theatre body or seek our inputs in the design,” said  , a veteran theatre artist.
 
 As part of commemoration of Tagore’s 150th birth anniversary, it was decided to revamp the multi-purpose cultural complexes (MPCCs) under the MPCC scheme and replace it with an improved scheme, to be known as the scheme for Tagore Cultural Complexes. 
 
