NAGPUR: In an effort to promote segregation of dry and wet garbage, and tackle the rising garbage disposal issues,   (NMC) will distribute two dustbins each to about 5.5 lakh households in Nagpur. A green bin will be used to collect wet waste and blue one for dry garbage.

 The civic body will spend Rs13.64 crore to purchase 11 lakh dustbins of 11-litre capacity each. The proposal was approved during the NMC’s general body meeting on Monday.
 
 Following the central government’s directives to collect segregated garbage from June 5, NMC’s health department has submitted the proposal to provide two dustbins each to citizens to segregate wet and dry waste.
 
 The union urban development ministry issued the notification and fixed prices for the dustbins. The government gave two options — either NMC could approach it to procure the dustbins, or the civic body could procure these on its own.
 
 The department had prepared three options for implementation of the notification. In the first NMC would provide 11 lakh dustbins to all 5.5 lakh households or shops, which will cost Rs13.64 crore. The second option was to provide only one dustbin, at a cost of Rs6.82 crore, and ask property owners to purchase another. NMC was also given the option of providing free dustbins in slums only, which would have cost Rs4.94 crore. The   unanimously approved the first option, to provide all property holders dustbins free of cost.
 
 The dustbins will be procured from the central government approved agency, and are expected to be distributed in a month. NMC will also give people a month to start segregating garbage voluntarily, before fines are imposed for non-compliance.
 
 Ruling party leader Sandip Joshi urged the mayor to approach private companies to help the civic body in the project under Corporate Social Responsibility. Besides this, Joshi said NMC could also approach member of parliaments and MLAs from the city. He also urged the 151 corporators to provide Rs2 lakh each from their ward funds for the purpose. This will not put a financial burden on the civic body, he said.
 
 Independent corporator Abha Pande and   corporator Sandip Sahare expressed doubts over how NMC will ensure effective segregation of dry and wet garbage, citing previous failures of similar proposals.
 
 “What is the point of distributing dustbins, when the civic body does not have trucks to carry dry and wet waste separately. We need to focus more on changing the mindset of the people,” said Pande.
 
 Additional municipal commissioner Ramnath Sonawane informed the House that NMC has already geared up to implement the proposal. According to him, the private firm entrusted in lifting garbage will provide separate vehicles to lift wet and dry garbage. He said NMC has already signed a Memorandum of Understanding with a consortium of two companies — Essel Infraprojects and   — to start waste-to-energy project.
 
