NEW DELHI: Delhi Police has filed a 450-page   against four men in the   gang rape case under various sections of IPC, including gang rape, criminal intimidation and unnatural sex.

 The 25-year-old foreigner was allegedly gangraped at a five-star hotel in Connaught Place last year by the accused, who also made videos of the act. 
 
 Earlier, the woman claimed that she didn’t realise what had happened to her as she was being continuously sedated by the accused. She said that the men kept drugging her for at least three days — after the rape — so that she could not file any complaint. 
 
 Aniruddha Singh, a Rajasthan-based tourist guide, Omprakash, Maqsood and Vivek — all in their late 20s — were arrested from different cities during raids conducted by Delhi Police.
 
 According to the chargesheet, filed before a magistrate court, all four have been chargesheeted under sections 376 D (gangrape), 377 (unnatural sex), 328 (causing hurt by means of poison) and 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) besides 506 (criminal intimidation) read with section 34 (common intention) of the IPC.
 
 In October, 2016 the police had initiated an investigation after they received an email from a US-based NGO about the alleged gang rape. The woman had sent another email to police asking them to register an FIR against five men.
 
 In the mail, she said that she came to India along with a group of tourists. While the police arrested the four men, they sought their custody to gather further evidence and establish the identity of the fifth accused.
 
 On the day of the incident, one of the accused allegedly came to the woman’s room with a water bottle. She said that after having water from that bottle, she started feeling giddy. The accused allegedly asked the victim to lie down on the bed, following which she fell unconscious.
 
 All the accused then took turns to rape her and when she woke up, she found one of them in the room. He threatened her with dire consequences if she raised an alarm or informed anyone about the incident, she told police. The accused also threatened to release her photographs online if she did not follow his instructions. She has also alleged physical assault besides being raped.
 
 
