NAGPUR: Responding positively to the Chief Justice of India’s (CJI) call, all judges in the   would sit during vacations — the first time in its history.

 The Bombay high court (HC) registry assigned duties to all judges who will sit in single and division benches, but on part-time basis. CJI JS   called on all high courts in the country to reduce pendency of over three crore cases.
 
 On April 25, had reported about more number of judges to remain present from May 8 to June 2, citing notification issued by registrar (judicial) VK Yawalkar, where he called on the lawyers to get ready with their cases. He stated that both single and division benches would take up the cases that included writ petitions, first appeal and criminal appeals.
 
 A notification issued by registrar (Judicial-I) RM Joshi on Friday assigned work to all judges where seniors would sit in division benches while juniors would hear other matters.
 
 Between Monday and May 11, Justice Bhushan Gavai and Justice Nitin Sambre will preside as division bench in the first session on each day. Both judges will be available at single benches in the second session in the same period. Justice Gavai will also take up matters between May 9 and 12, after cases at the vacation court are over.   will be available in both sessions during this period.
 
 A division bench comprising Justice Bhushan Dharmadhikari and Justice Zaka Haq will be available in the first session from May 29 to June 2. In the second session, both judges will be available at single bench in this period. Justice Dharmadhikari will also be a sitting judge between May 22 and 26.
 
 Justice Vasanti Naik will sit between May 22 and 26, while justice Prasanna Varale will be available between May 29 and June 2. Justice Sunil Shukre will take up matters from May 15 to 19, and Justice Indira Jain from May 8 to 12.
 
 Justice Ravi Deshpande will be available between May 15 and 19, and during this period he will also sit after vacation court matters are over. Justice Atul Chandurkar will preside over between May 22 and 26 and will be available after the end of vacation cases.
 
 Justice Swapna Joshi be available between May 29 and June 2 and will also be available after vacation court matters are over.
 
 The notification by Joshi mentioned that the final list of matters to be taken up for hearing would be published later.
 
