Gurgaon: Gurgaon police, on Monday, revealed they have vital leads in two murders, both of which had happened in  , one in February and the other in March. Thus far, they were being treated as isolated events. Arrests had been made, but the cases were far from being cracked. However, with the arrest of a fresh suspect on Monday, cops claimed they have established links between the two murders — both were carried out by the same gang.

 It all began when the body of Vikrant, resident of Dulina village in Jhajjar district, was found with three bullet shots near Bajghera village on February 5. Vikrant was a member of the Nandu Sangwan gang. Based on their preliminary probe, cops booked three suspects — Anshul, Rahul and Vikas — all members of the gang of criminals led by Manjeet Mahal, Sangwan’s rival. So far, they had been chasing a gang-war angle behind the murder. Rahul was arrested on February 15, but he deposed before police that he was present at the crime scene by chance — that he had been called by his friend, a Vikas Dalal, who is absconding — and was unaware of the murder plot. 
 
 Then, on March 15, Rahul Mann (27) alias Rinku, resident of Delhi’s Alipur village and a member of the Rajesh Bawania gang, was gunned down in Sector 23A, while he was visiting Gurgaon to celebrate his “girlfriend’s” birthday. 
 
 Meanwhile, during Rahul’s interrogation, inspector Sajjan Singh Dalal, officer in-charge of crime unit 3 at Palam Vihar police station, retrieved information that one of the suspects, Anshul Dhankar, was lodged in a jail in Himachal Pradesh, in another murder case. A country-made pistol had been recovered from him at the time of his arrest. Palam Vihar police took him for questioning from HP Police on production warrant on March 28. He revealed he is a member the Mahal gang, and was also involved in the murder of Rahul Mann. Following his interrogation, cops nabbed a fresh suspect, Deepak alias Dhola on Sunday.
 
 On Monday, the two — Anshul Dhankar of Chudani village in Bahadurgarh district and Deepak of Ismaila village in Rohtak district — were produced in a city court for their involvement in both murders, and taken on two days police remand. Cops said the two suspects were sharp-shooters in the Mahal gang, and that they had used a girl to honey-trap their second victim, Rahul Mann. 
 
 Police also said Rahul Mann’s murder was a result of personal enmity, while gang war was behind Vikrant’s murder. Rahul Mann’s murder plan was hatched by another member of the Mahal gang, Vikas Dalal, a parole jumper who had set up the honey trap using a close friend — a girl from Himachal identified as Tikum — as bait. Tikum was employed with a private firm in Chandigarh, said police.
 
 “Anshul and Deepak were the shooters in the two murders. Vikrant was gunned down because of gang rivalry,” said Sumit Kuhar, DCP (crime), Gurgaon. He added, “Vikas had Rahul Mann killed because of personal enmity. First, Vikas encouraged Tikum to befriend Rahul Mann on Facebook and WhatsApp. Once she ensnared him, she called him to Gurgaon “to celebrate her birthday at midnight”, when he was shot dead. We’ve identified the girl and are conducting raids to nab her and Vikas.”
 
 “During our probe into Rahul Mann’s murder, some of his friends revealed he had been in touch with a girl for the past week on WhatsApp. Before leaving for Gurgaon, he had told a friend it was his girlfriend’s birthday. He bought a cake for her, and promised to return by midnight,” said inspector Dalal, the investigating officer.
 
 
