MUMBAI: Chinese companies are not just making inroads into various Indian businesses, they are slowly beginning to gain control of one of the biggest religions of Indians – cricket. Be it the title sponsorship of the cash-rich Indian Premier League ( ), or the most premium and oldest sponsorship rights of the Indian   team, the Chinese have invaded and captured all the major sponsorships of Indian cricket.
 
  “The Chinese are controlling India as well as world cricket today. Obviously India and the Asian sub-continent is a very big market for them, which is why they are seeing big value and are investing top dollar on   and promotions,” said Tuhin Mishra, managing director at sports marketing firm, Baseline Ventures.
  
  For instance, between   and  , their holding company BBK Electronics now sponsors the Indian cricket teams, is the title sponsor of IPL, and is also a sponsor of the International Cricket Council.
  
  
  
 PayTM, which has Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba as its largest shareholder, owns title sponsorship of all cricket tournaments being played in India. There are more such Chinese brands, which are spending on cricket and cricket stars. Brand expert Harish Bijoor described this as a complete takeover by China.
  
  “First it was telecom, now cricket. You will see on investment fronts that the Chinese are taking big bets in India, both at the back and front end. Whether we love them, hate them, the fact is we are sleeping with them,” said Bijoor.
  
  However, some marketing executives believe that this kind of investment by Chinese brands is similar to carpet-bombing to gain market share. A marketing executive of an Indian telecom company said that these are signs of Chinese influx into the psyche of Indians.
  
  “Cricket is our religion, which they have identified. But, we have to take this with a pinch of salt. We have seen recently companies such as LeEco coming in with big promises and then going belly up,” he said.
  
  Interestingly, Oppo, which has picked up the official   sponsorship - and rights to display its logo on team India jersey - is committing Rs 1,079 crore over the next five years on Indian cricket team, which is more than double of what incumbent Star India was paying.
  
  “But it is also about these brands trying to get saliency in India,” explained Shashi Sinha, chief executive of media agency IPG Mediabrands India. Sinha said that American, Korean and Japanese companies have had an early start in India and have built their brand and Chinese are just playing catch-up. “This is not about controlling the sport or market; it is about building credibility in India.”
  
  Incidentally, it’s not just India where Chinese companies are investing in sports. Even if they don’t have a cricket culture and hosting a football World Cup remains an elusive dream for the East Asian country, Chinese companies are buying up clubs and sports assets across the globe.
  
  And even if purists frown at the Men in Blue displaying Chinese brands on their chests, the fact is that Oppo’s deal is the biggest in the history of Indian cricket sponsorship. The late entrant and one of the fastest growing Chinese handset manufacturer brands is going to pay Rs 4.17 crore per match (bilateral series) to the Indian cricket team and Rs 1.51 crore for ICC tournaments. Since 1993, multiple brands, including ITC, Sahara and Star India, have sponsored the team, but none was near the Oppo’s commitment.
  
  The highest amount before this was paid by Sahara India Pariwar, which was spending Rs 3.34 crore per match for the sponsoring rights. 
