LUDHIANA: The fire brigade wing will come under a separate directorate and it will no longer be part of municipal corporation. Local bodies minister   said the   government would implement the Fire Prevention and Safety Act shortly which would be followed by the wing’s upgrade. He also announced Rs 1 lakh bravery award for each of the four firemen who had received burns while dousing a factory blaze. 

 “Fire brigade wings will be developed as independent departments across the state. This will help these earn enough income for development. The department will be equipped with hydraulic ladder-fitted advanced fire tenders. While the state has proposed Rs 40 crore for the department’s upgrade, the Centre has assured to contribute Rs 50 crore. Besides, after the implementation of the Act, industrial and commercial units will pay a fee for obtaining fire No Objection Certificate (NOC),” Sidhu added. 
 
 For a population of 2.77 crore, at least 500 advanced fire tenders were required in the state. Besides, the government would also purchase fire-proof suits that would save firemen from burns, he said. 
 
 The minister also met the injured firemen at CMC hospital. The four firemen had received burns while dousing a textile factory blaze on May 11. One of the firemen, Hazura Singh, requested Sidhu to transfer him to his native place, Amritsar. The minister assured to clear his transfer. He also appreciated MC commissioner   for ensuring their good medical treatment and granting Rs 10 lakh for it. 
 
 Sidhu said the government would celebrate Annual Fire Week from April 17 to 21. “The week will be celebrated for the first time in Punjab wherein the government will honour the four brave firemen with medals. Besides, we will ensure insurance cover for all firemen and resolve staff shortage,” he added.
 
 City tops in number of illegal buildings: Sidhu
 
 Local bodies minister Navjot Sidhu said revenue generation through various sources was a priority of the government. “Land worth Rs 20,000 crore is under encroachment in Amritsar. We will take possession of this prime land. The government also plans to bring one-time settlement policy for regularization of illegal buildings. Ludhiana tops the list in number of illegal structures. Shopkeepers, who had taken government shops on rent several years ago, are ready to purchase these at collectorate rates. We will sell the shops to them to generate revenue,” he added 
 
