NAGPUR: Water man of India and Magsaysay award winner Rajendra Singh on Wednesday made a clarion call for ‘working wetlands’ to save them from further dying. 

 Singh, in his keynote address at a national seminar on World Wetlands Day (Feb 2) at Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar’s Deekshabhoomi, also called to initiate a Mahad-type movement launched by the father of constitution on March 20, 1927 for equal rights on water, to save country’s wetlands.
 
 The seminar was jointly organized by Dr Ambedkar College and Maharashtra forest department in association with OCW and Vanrai Foundation, Nagpur.
 
 He blamed the faulty education policies which teaches extraction of natural resources and how to control them. In Rajasthan, by executing simple techniques, Singh’s Tarun Bharat Sangh has rejuvenated 7 rivers that had almost died.
 
 “It doesn’t need big engineering to save water bodies but simple common sense can work. If academicians are really serious about conserving wetlands they should ask students to respect nature,” Singh said at a packed gathering of students, teachers and officials.
 
 Wetlands are linked to our lives and to face the 21st century challenges, teachers should sow the seeds by taking students’ yatras to wetlands to know about their plight. “Today, encroachments, pollution and over exploitation are biggest problems wetlands are facing. People need to come forward to fight injustice. Sadly, no education teaches to fight against injustice,” the water conservationist said.
 
 Despite best irrigation facilities since independence, country is facing floods and droughts. Even today, 54% of India faces high to extremely high water stress.
 
 He blamed lack of political will for the mess. Citing example of Marathwada where leaders encouraged to grow sugar cane despite drought, Singh appealed to the farmers to link crop pattern with rain pattern.
 
 “Sustainable watershed management, groundwater recharge and stopping soil erosion were the main factors to save the situation. In Rajasthan, we showed the way by creating over 11,000 check dams and water conservation works in 10,840 sqkm area,” said Singh.
 
 The water conservationist cited example of Maharashtra, where country’s 40% large dams were built but the flip side is that it tops the list of farmers’ suicides. “This happened due to lack of planning and discipline,” he added.
 
 Post inauguration, plenary lectures by SVC Kameshwara Rao, scientist with NRSC (ISRO), on Indian space technology applications, APCCF   on wetland conservation initiatives in Maharashtra and  , professor with VNIT on shrinking wetland habitats. 
 
