NEW DELHI: Kolkata Knight Riders’ rejuvenated bid to win their third   title will begin in Rajkot in game three of   on Friday, and in their way will be hosts Gujarat Lions, who beat them in both their encounters last season. 

 One of the most consistent teams in the history of the IPL, two-time winners KKR head into   as the most rounded unit with the addition of a formidable pace battery to go with their sharp spinners. 
 
 If at all KKR have a problem, it will be regarding the team composition, more specifically trying to fit in four overseas players in their playing XI. The absence of Andre Russell (out with a one-year suspension) will be a worry, but that will shift the focus on Chris Lynn, Chris Woakes and Colin de Grandhomme to fill the charismatic West Indian’s void.
 
 For Gujarat, who in their maiden season reached the play-offs last year, the emphasis would be to overcome the business end jitters and go the distance this season. Team owner Keshav Bansal is not worried about the fact this could be Gujarat’s final appearance, and on the contrary has stated that the team’s only objective is win the title. Gujarat have made a good start to that objective, purchasing the maximum number of players (11) among the eight franchises at the 2017 IPL players' auction while spending only Rs 3.85 crore, the lowest among other teams.
 
 
 : SCA Stadium, Rajkot
 
 
 : April 7, 2017
 
 
 : 20:00 IST
 
 
 : A pleasant evening with temperatures ranging in the mid-20s. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 With Ravindra Jadeja resting for the tournament’s initial stages, Gujarat need a spin-bowling allrounder and Shabad Jakati appears the likely choice. As for the overseas quotient, it would be a difficult call to drop Aaron Finch for the new recruit Jason Roy, but such is the latter’s presence and form this year that it looks the way to go. A younger, more athletic Roy paired with Brendon McCullum at the top is an irresistible combination. Young Ishan Kishan is looking at plenty of playing time should be deliver in the middle order, coming off a good domestic season. 
 
 
  1 Jason Roy, 2 Brendon McCullum, 3 Suresh Raina (capt), 4 Dinesh Karthik (wk), 5 Dwayne Bravo, 6 Ishan Kishan, 7 James Faulkner, 8 Shadab Jakati, 9 Dhawal Kulkarni, 10 Shivil Kaushik, 11 Praveen Kumar
 
 
 
 With Umesh Yadav most likely to miss the first two games, KKR will be forced to sit our DarrenBravo, who could lend stability to the middle order and add Jharkhand’s Ishank Jaggi to make way for the fourth overseas player in Chris Woakes. Once Umesh is fit, only one from Trent Boult and Woakes will make it to the XI. Bravo will also have to stave off competition from big-hitting Chris Lynn.
 
 
 
  1 Gautam Gambhir (capt), 2 Robin Uthappa (wk), 3 Manish Pandey, 4 Ishank Jaggi, 5 Suryakumar Yadav, 6 Yusuf Pathan, 7 Shakib Al Hasan, 8 Chris Woakes, 9 Sunil Narine, 10 Trent Boult, 11 Kuldeep Yadav
 
 
 
 
 Maybe a combination of Manish Pandey’s batting and Ankit Rajput’s bowling can get us what Russell did. Not only Woakes but the entire team can try to fill in for Russell and for that you don’t necessarily need an all-rounder. Maybe some other pair can do this.” - Gautam Gambhir, KKR captain
 
 "In any team you never have the perfect combination, you always have may be one or two holes. We have some serious international players and to get the right combination is going to be difficult. Brendon McCullum, Aaron Finch, Jason Roy and Dwayne Smith all have good strike-rates.” - Brad Hodge, GL coach
 
 
