GURUGRAM:   (DHBVN) is working on a war footing to ensure uninterrupted supply to two key areas of the city —   and   — which are likely to witness peak demand this summer. 

 DHBVN officials said 10 additional 400/500 kilovolt-ampere (kVA) transformers will be installed in Sushant Lok, which already has around 40 of them. DLF City, which too has the same number of transformers, will get eight more.
 
 This, officials said, will ensure the overall distribution system is not strained in the face of soaring demand during peak summers.
 
 This augmentation will streamline power, making supply more efficient and minimising recurrence of outages, a key irritant for consumers as the mercury rises.
 
 “All additions will have to be effected into the distribution system to avoid power cuts and streamline the supply,” said Kuldeep Nehra, sub-division officer, DLF City. 
 
 Besides, two new feeders will also be added to Sushant Lok. “One of the feeders will be set up in the power house in Sector 43. The other one will be installed in the Sector 52 power house,” the official said, adding that around 10,000-12,000 homes are likely to benefit from these augmentations this summer.
 
 The discom has also begun its loss reduction plan (LRP) across the city, in a bid to slash its percentage of line losses. “LRP will be executed in four phases,” a DHBVN official said. “In the first phase, consumers whose meters are still inside their homes, will be persuaded to shift them outside the premises. In the second phase, old cables will be replaced. We will replace conductors and sanitise the system in the third and fourth phases, respectively. An insulation covering called ‘spacers’ will be added to the power lines during sanitisation. The LT lines must have a 9-inch gap between them. If they strike, it damages the transformer,” he said, adding that more than 500 such spacers have been installed in DLF City to avoid damages.
 
 At present, Gurgaon suffers line losses to the tune of 14%, the lowest in Haryana, officials said. The discom hopes to bring it down to 9%. 
 
 Pertinently, DLF accounts for the highest share of diesel gensets operating out of households, which belch copious amounts of pollutants in the air. Officials told TOI that there are up to 700-900 urban feeders in Gurgaon, of which, 40 are in DLF City alone.
 
 
