Nagpur: Gas and petrochemical pipelines as a well a high speed rail line may be built parallel to the Nagpur-Mumbai Samruddhi Expressway in near future, said chief minister Devendra Fadnavis on Sunday.  The CM was speaking on the second day of an international conference ‘Innovations and aesthetics in design and construction for bridges and tunnels’ at a city hotel. “It will be the best designed highway in the country and we want experts to suggest new design which will save costs while increasing its value and sustainability,” the CM said.  The eight-lane 700 kilometre highway will also be longest ever in the country surpassing the 190 kilometre Yamuna Expressway in Delhi, Fadnavis added.  “We call it the communication expressway because it already boasts fibre optics but because of its design there is much more potential for its expansion,” said Fadnavis. The 24 nodes along the stretch of the highway will also bring prosperity to the farming population, he said. According to the CM, the prevailing political and economic environment in the country is favourable for large scale infrastructure projects. Fadnavis also said the pace at which such projects are being undertaken by the government is quicker than it used to be. “I am not saying we haven’t built our nation, we have. But the way our nation is being built today did not happen 50 or 60 years ago. There is a thrust on infrastructural sustainability and we have set new records on design and aesthetics,” the CM said. Fadnavis also talked about the road network project in Mumbai which are expected to ease congestion on the city’s creaking road network. “A new Versova-Bandra Sea link and the coastal road originating at Nariman Point (South Mumbai) will integrate the existing Bandra-Worli sea link,” he said. “The current Western Express Highway in West Mumbai already carries 60% of the state capital’s traffic. The new road over the sea will ease that burden,” the minister added. The CM said that designing the new Trans-Harbour Link — which would connect Mumbai and Navi-Mumbai — would be a challenge. He said, “The idea was conceived in the 90s but saw the light of day in 2014. We did not want to harm the mangroves and various species that inhabited it.” Highlighting the central governments achievements Fadnavis said, “We reduced travel time between Jammu and Kashmir with the Patnitop Tunnel. The distance has been reduced by 30 kilometres. We have also built the longest river bridge in the North-East spanning 9 kilometres.” “The Gateway of India in Mumbai was an iconic structure for over a hundred years. Now, the Bandra-Worli Sea link will dominate as a new icon for the next 100 years,” the CM said.