PATNA: Patna district administration is likely to commence the land acquisition process for development of civil enclave at Bihta airbase from the first week of February. Patna DM   said the cabinet coordination department would release funds to the tune of Rs 120crore sanctioned earlier by the state cabinet within a couple of days, following which land acquisition process would commence.

 Sources in   (AAI) claimed that survey of the land to be acquired has been completed and the design for the proposed enclave has also been finalised. The enclave is proposed to be a two-storeyed structure equipped with aerobridges and other modern amenities.
 
 “We have been told by cabinet coordination department that a requisition letter along with corresponding amount would be sent to us in a day or two. The land acquisition process would commence soon after the receipt of the requisition letter. We intend to complete the acquisition of land by July-August,” Agarwal told TOI.
 
 Sources claimed that the earmarked location for the proposed civil enclave is located on western end of Bihta airbase. The ultra-modern civil enclave would be developed in two years with an estimated expenditure of Rs 500 crore. The state cabinet had approved funds for land acquisition for construction of the civil enclave on November 15 last year.
 
 As per in-principle agreement between Union civil aviation ministry and state government, the latter is supposed to hand over 108 acres of the acquired land to AAI for construction of the enclave. The remaining 18 acres would be used for development of amenities for building a VIP lounge, a hotel and a hangar as part of the proposed civil enclave. The hotel would be developed to provide an option to the fliers to stay back at the airport as it is situated around 35km away from the city.
 
 Senior AAI officials have claimed that airfare for flights operating from Bihta airbase would be cheaper than the ones operating from   (JPNI), Patna as there would not be load penalty.
 
 Besides, it is not necessary that international flights would operate from Bihta airbase as the AAI would leave it to the airlines to operate such flights. As of now, international flights do not operate from Patna airport. Bihta airbase is also considered a good alternative for Patna as it has a longer runway.
 
