Nagpur: Chief minister Devendra Fadnavis executed a memorandum of undertaking (MoU) with South Korea government for loans and execution of the ambitious Nagpur-Mumbai Super Communication Expressway — Samruddhi Corridor — on Tuesday. The Korean government will also help the state government in implementation strategy, legal systems, policies, technologies and information in various infrastructure development projects like Smart Cities, Metro Rail, airports etc. As reported by TOI on Tuesday, Fadnavis, along with a state officials, reached Seoul and held a meeting with South Korea minister for land and transport Kim Hyun-mee. He and Kim Hyun-mee signed the strategic partnership for infrastructure development projects in the state for four years. In his tweet, Fadnavis thanked Kim Hyun-mee and Korean government for showing keen interest in Samruddhi Corridor. “I also informed Kim Hyun-mee about Maharashtra’s achievement of 50% of total FDI of India and also about the state leading in infrastructure projects in India,” he tweeted. The latest development between the state and South Korea’s Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport (MOLIT) is the result of the Republic of Korea (ROK)-India Special Strategic Partnership agreed upon during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to that nation in May 2015. It is not clear whether MOLIT will give total loan of Rs45,000 crore for the execution of the 710-km Samruddhi Corridor. As per the MoU, Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation Limited (MSRDC) and Korea Expressway Corporation (KEC) will constitute a special purpose vehicle for planning and execution of Samruddhi Corridor. MOLIT will appoint a nodal officer of the rank of general director and state to appoint a nodal officer of not below the Secretary rank in the SPV. Major hurdle of getting loans for Samruddhi Corridor is likely to end after the MoU. The eight-lane corridor passing through 10 districts requires acquisition of over 20,800 hectares of land. The plan is also to develop 25 townships along the corridor. Additional chief secretaries Pravin Pardeshi (CMO), Sunil Porwal (Industries), PWD principal secretary Ashish Kumar Singh, MSRDC managing director Bhushan Gagrani, MIDC chief executive officer Sanjay Sethi and others are present with CM on South Korea tour.