JAIPUR:   (HRD) ministry has granted permission to Rajasthan government to upgrade State Institute of Educational Research and Training (SIERT) in Udaipur to autonomous State Council Educational Research and Training (SCERT). SCERT will work on the lines of National Council for Educational Research and Training (NCERT) with funding from the Center and state in ratio of 60:40.

 Sources said that chief minister Vasundhara Raje will formally announce the upgrading in Budget 2017. The upgrading means that SCERT can have permanent employees with a prime aim to revise the textbooks and develop the content for government school textbooks.
 
 “The HRD ministry has finally agreed on our proposal to upgrade SIERT to SCERT. It will have its positive implications in the education sector which is fast progressing in the state. The full-fledged SCERT will act as a state board for formulating norms, policies and programmes for teachers,” said education minister Vasudev Devnani.
 
 SIERT has members appointed by the state government. The overall structure of the existing body is defined by the rules laid by the state government which changes with the change of regime in the state.
 
 Sources informed TOI that SCERT will have a standard organizational structure with permanent employees. The head will be director followed by four joint directors (JDs) (administration, schemes, training and syllabus). Below the JDs will be a team of subject professors, readers and assistant professors. Besides, developing content, the SCERT, sources said, will design programmes and schemes for adolescence education program, early childhood programme and carry out learning outcomes surveys. The department is learnt to be chalking out the budget details.
 
 “The main difference between the two will be budget. SCERT will get the budget from the central government for its projects and research. While for the existing SIERT budget was given by the state government and most of the times there was paucity of funds,” said a source.
 
 Education minister Devnani had proposed the idea to then HRD minister Smriti Irani.
 
 
