UDAIPUR: A legendry cannon ‘Jagat Shobha’ which dates back to 1750, while   was the ruler of Mewar, has been rediscovered lately by historians. Surprisingly the canon, which is believed to have forced the Sacindia army from Ujjain to retreat by saving Mewar’s honour at a crucial time, has now attained the position of ‘Mother Goddess’ among locals who worship it daily. 

 Anyone can spot the canon, mounted on a cenotaph at a burj (tower) opposite  . The cannon has a high reverence among people who consider it as their saviour against all odds. According to historians, there had been numerous cannons of yesteryears faded in oblivion but firm belief of residents has saved this heritage from fading away. Even in present days, residents offer a bowl of milk to the cannon during evening prayers. 
 
 “Jagat Shobha had been powerful as well as a legendry cannon of its time. Mewar was witnessing turmoil when Amarchand Badwa, a brahmin, took over as the Prime Minister of the state from 1751-1778 during the reigns of Maharanas Pratap Singh II, Raj Singh II, Ari Singh, and Hamir Singh respectively,” says Dr Sri Krishna Jugnu, historian and renowned author. The rulers were weak and unpopular among masses. The coffer was empty and soldiers refused to fight for getting salary, Jugnu added.
 
 “At this crucial time,   accepted the responsibility of Pradhan and began the fortification of Udaipur as retaliation from Maratha ruler Mahadji Scindia was imminent,” said commander Pratap Singh Mehta, whose book ‘Rajputana Chronicles: Guns and Glories’ too carries an account of Pradhan’s gallantry. 
 
 “Jagat Shoba and other cannons were effectively used during the siege of Udaipur by Scindias in 1769 CE during the reign of Ari Singh II. The legendry ‘enemy killer’ cannon was there on Eklinggarh fort atop Machhla Magra,” Dr P S Ranawat, retired professor and writer claims. At earlier stage when Scindia forces were strong, they tried to strike a deal of either paying Rs 70 lakh or surrender before the Scindias. However, Pradhan Badwa didn’t lose hope. He sold all the gold and silver coins from the state’s wealth and paid the Saindia force. He rejuvenated the army and attacked the enemy from all vintage points.
 
 “Jagat Shoba was such a powerful cannon that when triggered the explosive propellants, its sound echoed through the hills leaving the enemies trembling,” Jugnu said. Amarchand’s strategy was so successful that Mewar army emerged stronger and forced the Marathas to retreat.
 
