JAIPUR: While opposition parties have been expressing their concerns over electronic voting machines (EVMs) after alleged reports of malfunctioning, the   (EC) is all set to introduce verifiable paper audit trail (VVPAT) machines for   by-poll on Sunday.

 This will be the first time that the machine is being used in the state for an election. Following the Apex court directive, the EC has been gradually introducing VVPAT machines for more transparency. “All the 231 polling booths in the Dholpur assembly segment will use verifiable paper audit machines,“ said deputy chief election officer Vinod Pareek. Besides, 110 machines have been kept on reserve to replace any faulty machines.
 
 “The system contains ballot unit, control unit and VVPAT. When the voter presses the button, a paper slip appears which contains the name of the candidate and the party symbol on which the vote has been cast. It verifies the vote cast correctly. The paper slip will be visible for seven sec onds before it gets dropped into a drop box attached to the machine. This brings more transparency to the electoral process,“ Pareek said. Election officer Suchi Tyagi said all the preparations for the poll have been completed.
 
 “Elaborate security arrangements are in place to ensure free and fair elections,“ she said. The by-election was necessitated after the seat fell vacant following the termination of the membership of former BSP MLA B L Kushwah in December last year after he was convicted in a murder case.
 
 As many as 15 candidates, including 12 independents, are in the fray. But the fight is mainly between the ruling BJP and the opposition Congress.
 
 The BJP has fielded Kushawah's wife Shobha Rani while the Congress candidate is veteran leader and five-time MLA Banwari Lal Sharma. The   (SP) has fielded  .
 
 The BJP and Congress have made the poll a prestige issue with both chief minister Va sundhara Raje and Rajasthan Pradesh Congress president   campaigning extensively in Dholpur. The campaign for the poll ended on Friday night. The counting of the by-poll will take place on April 13.
 
