LUCKNOW: Barely 20 days after Lucknow   was flagged off, a passenger has filed a case against it in the  .

 In the complaint against   (LMRC), the passenger, Gaurav Tripathi, has alleged that the stoppage of the train midway on the inaugural day caused him to miss his flight and a business deal resulting in heavy financial loss. He has demanded Rs 5 lakh as compensation from  .
 
 This is probably the first time that a passenger has approached a consumer court seeking compensation from a Metro.
 
 The incident is of September 6, when   was flagged for public run.The train which departed Charbagh station around 6.15am got stuck between Mawaiya and Durgapuri sta tions after 15-20 mi nutes because of a technical snag.
 
 Around a hundred passengers were stranded for about two hours without water and sufficient cooling.
 
 Tripathi, 33, was headed to Transportnagar station on way to the airport. He had to take a flight to Delhi at 8.30am.Because of the delay , he claimed he missed his flight and an important meeting. Tripathi wrote to LMRC a few days later blaming it for negligence and slow crisis management and asked for his flight ticket com pensation but got no re sponse.
 
 “If the train had devel oped a snag, LMRC could have informed the passengers on time and arranged for an early evacuation. They did it after two hours when passengers began panicking and shouting. They did not inform us about the glitch and exit process on time. They are liable to pay for my monetary loss,“ said Tripathi, adding that Rs 4.5 lakh was for causing mental and physical stress to him and the rest as airfare compensation and court expenses.
 
 “I hired an autorickshaw to reach the airport but by then, the flight had gone. I could get a train only at night. Because I missed the meeting, my performance targets were not met. LMRC didn't even reply to my mail. The officials only apologised when I approached them in person,“ he said.
 
 The case was filed on Wednesday . It will now be pursued next week, after holidays are over. LMRC said it had not received any notice as yet.
 
 No other Metro in India has faced such a case, said LMRC. The Metro Act doesn't provide for compensation other than the operations & maintenance rule which only provides for Metro fare compensation.
 
