NEW DELHI: For the first time in the history of Indian Golf, as many as five industry bodies, star Asian Tour professionals like   and   together with 28   clubs across 16 Indian cities, have come together to lend their support to a unique initiative to grow the sport in the country.
 
 The India Learn Golf Week (ILGW), a weeklong programme scheduled between September 25 - October 1, 2017, will be an initiative of the Golf Industry Association (GIA) in partnership with the Indian Golf Union (IGU), the Women’s   (WGAI), the National Golf Association of India (NGAI), Golf Course Superintendents and Managers Association of India (GCS &MAI) as well as the globally acclaimed Professional Golfers Association (PGA) of America.
  
 The ILGW will aim to initiate 20,000 new golfers to the game, making it the largest such initiative to infuse new talent into the sport at one go. It will aim to attract 100,000 new golfers over a period of five years.
  
 Participating clubs will assign three to five coaches for each of the seven days to deliver introductory golfing lessons from curricula approved by the Professional Golfers Association (PGA) of America. Each coach will have five students in a session and will conduct five sessions in a day. The ILGW will be open to all interested.
  
 Gaganjeet Bhullar, seven time winner on the Asian Tour, said: "Excellent initiative and nice to know that so many clubs and stakeholders have come together with a long-term vision for the game. I have always felt that Golf has great potential in the country and regular initiatives like this can unearth hidden talent from all parts."
 
 Rahil Gangjee, Pro Golfer and winner on the Asian Tour, also appreciated the effort put together by the organisers. " I whole-heartedly support the India Learn Golf Week and wish it a great success. Kudos to the organizers for bringing an institution like the PGA on board and this will go a long way in spreading the popularity of the game in the country," he said.
 
 Mr. Devang D. Shah, President, GIA, has this to say: "All the Industry bodies have had a plan to work together for a while now and we are glad that the India Learn Golf Week has given us this opportunity finally. I hope that we can make it a big success. We are trying to build this proposition as a strong base for finding golfing talent in India."
 
 
  
 
  
 There has been overwhelming response to the Golf Week from across the country and we are now working to exceed the target. I think with the success of players like Anirban, SSP, Aditi and Ganganjeet in recent times, the excitement around the sport is at an all time high. The ILGW will be a great opportunity for youngsters to ride this wave and bring glory to the country.
  
 
 
  
 India Learn Golf Week is a great initiative for introducing players to the game. Being a catalyst for growth of golf, undoubtly there will be a surge of Olympic aspirants in the game for all age groups and sports persons from other sports as well
  
 
 
  
 This initiative is also going to help in the growth of women's golf in the country. We have one Aditi Ashok in our country and ILGW will create the platform for more youngsters to come and join the game.
 
