Kya aap paanchvi paas se tez hai?   might find it a little tough to answer this question positively after he flubbed   before a class of fifth graders he was teaching Mathematics. Not only did the mayor misspell ‘apoornank’ (fraction), he also got the spelling of ‘ched’ (denomination of fraction) wrong while explaining fractions to nearly 35 students. Shah exposed his ignorance before students of municipal school 2 in Kankaria when he visited it as part of   held every year to check the quality of education imparted in government-run primary schools.

 The 52-year-old who wanted to prove himself a good teacher walked into Class 5 with notes and teaching aids on Friday. However, the first word he wrote on the board was ‘apoornank’ – rather it was supposed to be ‘apoornank’ but ended up spelling it ‘apunank’. The gaffe was embarrassing because a teacher had already written the correct spelling in the header on the class blackboard. Shah, who got his Bachelor of Commerce degree from CU Shah Commerce College, followed up the mistake with another one when he goofed the spelling of ‘ched’.
 
 He wrote it as ‘chedd’. “We were surprised when he made the mistakes but we could not correct him before the kids. He came here to teach. Correcting him in front of the students would have embarrassed him,” said a teacher. Incidentally, Ahmedabad Municipal School Board chairman Pankaj Chauhan and administrator Lagdhir Desai were also present in the class. Those present in school said that it was nice of Shah to take an interest, but fractions are taught to students from Class 3. “He did not depend on the chalk and board. Instead, he had several teaching aids.
 
 He brought an apple to teach them fractions, and a sheet of paper to explain it further. However, the students had been taught the lesson ahead of the visit since the mayor and media were to be present and we did not want to face any embarrassing situation. This is why students were able to answer the mayor swiftly,” said an official, refusing to be named. Funnily, when Shah asked students who he was (probably in a bid to check his popularity), 10 students from the class raised their hands. Shah picked a girl and who promptly quipped: “Gujarat na mayor”.
 
 As Shah grew pale, a red-faced teacher softly gave the cue: “Amdavad na mayor.” An observer said, “The school was decked well. The students and teachers were informed in advance in who Shah was. Despite this, the students could not recollect that Shah was the mayor. This shows the level of education in these primary schools.” Shah said this was his first experience as teacher since he was elected as a councillor. “Earlier, an   member, between 1982 and 19987, I would organise classes for class 10 and 12 students.
 
 Various teachers would volunteer to teach the kids. If someone failed to turn up, I would take the class in their stead,” he revealed. About his school visit, Shah said, “I did not want to be known as a political figure who visits school randomly. Teaching them gave me an opportunity to mingle with them. If I teach them well, I may be able to encourage them to take up education seriously in life.” Asked if he realised he had misspelt the words, the mayor said, “I was teaching maths so it could be possible that I failed to pay attention to my spellings. No one from the school pointed out, nor did I notice the mistakes.”
 You Might Also Like
 
