BHOPAL: On Friday, while senior railway officials from Bhopal rail division were hosting the general manager of west central railway (WCR) Girish Pillai and members of Parliament at a prominent hotel in the state capital, a major accident was averted at the Bhopal railway station when the signal staff at   forgot to give red signal to   train to stop. To the surprise of passengers who were planning to get down at Bhopal main station, the train almost missed the station and crossed the foot over-bridge when some passenger pulled the chain.

 The train came to a halt between platform 1 and 2 making it difficult for passengers to board or get down. Railway officials have ordered a probe into the lapse.
 
 Senior officials who were busy in the consultative committee meeting could reach the station almost two hours after the train departed.
 
 As per schedule, Pushpak Express from Lucknow arrives at Bhopal railway station at 5:55 am, but as it was late by 9 and half hours, it arrived at about 3:30 pm. Due to the fault the train remained halted at the station and departed after about an hour.
 
 “The train instead of coming on platform 1 or 2 stopped in between. On getting the green signal, it had almost passed the station, when some passenger pulled the chain and bought it to a halt,” R K Upadhyay, TI, RPF Bhopal railway station told TOI.
 
 There were over 50 passengers waiting to get down at the station, but were shocked to see the station passing in front of their eyes. However, when the train was stopped on mainline between the two platforms, which is mainly for goods trains, about 40 passengers, who were supposed to board the train from platform 2. “They were taken to the train safely and were allowed to board the train,” said the spokesperson for Bhopal rail division.
 
 Talking to TOI senior divisional commercial manager, Brajendra Kumar said, “An inquiry has been marked immediately and team is at station to check the matter. As soon as we get the report action will be taken.”
 
 This is not the first incident of negligence report. In October 2016, Shreedham Express almost skipped the Habibganj railway station due to wrong signal given to the train, and the train ultimately stopped between second and third platform on main line.
 
