NASHIK: A dacoity at a   on Nashik-Aurangabad road has come as a shocker to   as patrolling has been intensified in the run-up to the February 21 civic polls.

 Around 1am on Friday, six unidentified persons barged into the cabin of the petrol pump in Lakhalgaon and started beating up three workers sleeping inside. Even before the workers react, the   stole Rs 2 lakh cash from the cupboard and fled the scene.They also stole one of the workers’ motorcycle worth Rs 20,000.
 
 As the petrol pump falls under the jurisdiction of the Adgaon police station, the workers filed a complaint there. Police rushed to the spot and effected a nakabandi in the area. 
 
 Senior inspector Sanjay Sanap said, “We have set up a team to trace the culprits. The dacoits had switched off all the lights at the petrol pump before barging inside the cabin. So, the workers could not gauge what was happening or identify the culprits. As they were beaten up badly, it took the workers a while to contact anyone for help.”
 
 He added, “The dacoits also took away one of the worker’s motorcycle. On checking the   footage, we found that the dacoits were also carrying an airgun with them.”
 
 The incident comes as a shocker to the city police as they are patrolling different parts of the city to keep a check on illegal activities in the backdrop of the ensuing elections.
 
 Around 2am, the same night, the city police came intercepted a car with six people carrying Rs 3.79 lakh near Inayat Cafe at Suchitanagar of Mumbai Naka. Apart from the cash, police also found a hockey stick, 6 cellphones and chilli powder from the car. 
 
 A senior police official said that the dacoits also had a knife and another sharp-edged weapon with them. “The criminals have been identified as Charudatta Bhigarkar (29) of Ashoka Marg, Abijeet Gosavi (29) of Makhmalabad Naka, Vinayak Datta Jadhav (27) of Wadala Road, Mayur Divate (23) of old Nashik, Pankaj Sharma (35) of Chincholi Phata and Nasim Khan (35), a resident of Ambad Link Road.
 
