We bring to you full results from WWE RAW exclusive pay-per-view, WWE  . The main event saw   defend his Universal Championship against Samoa Joe.

 
 
 Samoa Joe jumped Brock Lesnar even before the match began and drove the Universal champion through the announcers’ table. Lensar made his way back and was met with an enzogiri and a flurry of punches. Lesnar made a comeback with knees to the mid section and executed three German Suplex before Joe hit a low blow on Lensar without letting the referee seeing it. Joe got the Coquina Clutch twice but Lesnar powered out and despite hitting himself on to the ring post Lesnar managed another trifecta of German Suplexes. Joe showed some fight with another attempt at Coquina Clutch but Lesnar survived and hit an F5 on Joe to retain his title 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 A brutal match with Strowman punishing Reigns early on, but the Big Dog retailed with chairs but to no avail. It was a back and forth battle and Reigns went for broke and ran for the spear; Strowman moved away and Reigns crashed in to the Ambulance to hand Strowman the win. But the Reigns reappeared from the Ambulance and speared Strowman. He then dumped the Monster among in to the Ambulance and drove him to the backstage arena. Reigns then drove the Ambulance in a trailer and walked away. Strowman was trapped in the mangled Ambulance and it took a while for the local fire department to free Strowman. A visibly battered Strowman walked away denying any medical assistance. 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 Distraction, distraction and distractions and the Miz retains the title. Maryse saved Miz from a 3-count after Dirty Deeds while the Miztourage - Bo Dallas and Curtis Axel - continued to hand Miz the advantage. And eventually the numbers game got the better of Ambrose and Miz won the title match after delivering the Skull Crushing Finale
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Sasha Banks wins, but via count-out, meaning titles don't change hands and Alexa Bliss is still the WWE RAW Women's Champion. Bliss once again finds a way to survive, but Banks assaults the champion after the match and makes a solid statement 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Incredible 30-minute Ironman match between Sheamus-Cesaro and the Hardys. After being 0-2 down early on, the veterans made a fabulous comeback, but could not deny their younger opponents from retaining the title 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 As expected, Big Cass steamrolls his former tag partner Enzo
 
 
 
 The first match of the main PPV was a blast and well, Bray Wyatt manages a win over The Kingslayer. 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 Tozawa was not going to a threat for the King of Cruiserweights and Neville retains the title with ease. Bit of a bizarre ending. 
 
  
  
 Remaining matches 
 
 
 
 
 
 
