Nagpur: Her father Sheshrao Wankhede was the first mayor of Nagpur and she was the first woman mayor of the city. Even though she isn’t active politically now, Kundatai Vijaykar is still a well known name in social circles. She keeps an eye on political happenings of the city. TOI talked to Kundatai to learn about her views on the current civic politics. Excerpts:

 What is your opinion about the four-member ward system introduced for the coming Nagpur Municipal Corporation elections?
 
 It will prove to be a disaster. There will be no accountability on any of the corporators. They will play the game of buck-passing and quarrel with each other for taking credit for good works even if they belong to the same party. One-member-one-ward system is the best. You can easily judge the corporator’s work. The government took the decision to weaken independent candidates. The wards have been carved out as per the votebank of the ruling party.
 
 State government’s 
 
 decision to abolish local body tax has weakened NMC’s finances. Did the move achieve anything?
 
 Not at all. LBT abolition has finished off NMC’s autonomy. It is now completely dependent on state government. Local leaders always talk about big project worth crores of rupees. Where is the money to execute these projects? NMC does not have money to pay even salaries and pension. The problem with this government is it wants to achieve everything at the same time. Why not address important issues step-by-step?
 
 How has the working of 
 
 the NMC changed over 
 
 the years?
 
 It has changed for the worse. During my time, NMC was run by four stalwarts — Himmatrao Saraykar of Congress, Prabhakarrao Datke of BJP, Nana Shamkule of RPI and Atal Bahadur Singh of Lokmanch. They were very well read people. They had in-depth knowledge of NMC’s working and had excellent public contact. They used to respect officers and had excellent coordination with them. In my time, we never used to think of officers as outsiders. Zamre was the municipal commissioner when I was the mayor. I never used to summon him to my chamber. However, he always used to come when he wanted to meet me.
 
 My observation is that the curent lot of corporators does not respect officers. They want to dominate them. Coordination between the two arms of NMC is lacking. Same is the case with coordination between corporators of different parties. When the post of mayor was reserved for women, Sumatitai Sukalikar, who was a staunch RSS supporter, proposed my name. Nowadays, corporators only fight with each other.
 
 You were the first woman mayor of Nagpur and 
 
 people still remember your tenure. Why reservation for women corporators has not empowered them?
 
 This is because their male relatives field them when the ward gets reserved. The woman is corporator only in name while the actual work is done by the male relative. Unless political parties give ticket to women on their merit, the situation will not change.
 
 
