BELAGAVI: A monkey which suffocated due to alleged mishandling by the  , has   and Hindu outfits. 

 A monkey that was creating havoc in Agasaga village of Belagavi taluk for the past few months was caught on Monday by forest department personnel led by RFO Nagaraj Balehosur, with support from locals. They allegedly stuffed it into a fertilizer bag, where the animal suffocated. 
 
  When forest staff opened the bag at   mini zoo, 14km from the city, where the monkey was to be rehabilitated, they found it was dead. They carried out some rituals and buried the monkey in the zoo, police said. 
 
 "It's very unfortunate that the monkey died in the possession of forest personnel," said Ramakant Konduskar, district president of Sriram Sene. The Sene is disappointed as the monkey died on  , due to the staff's alleged negligence. "They could have taken the monkey to a mini zoo in a cage or net, but they didn't. The incident occurred due to negligence and has hurt the sentiments of Hindus who worship the monkey as Lord Hanuman," Konduskar said. 
 
 According to Amrut Charantimath, an animal lover and environmentalist, "The incident exposes the foolishness of forest department personnel who don't know anything about animals. It's common sense that if you keep an animal in a packed plastic bag, it suffocates. The forest staff has been merciless."
 
 Responding to the allegations, deputy conservator of forests (DCF) Basavaraj Patil clarified that although the initiative to catch the monkey was taken by the department, the personnel were not involved. An expert team of private monkey catchers from Khanapur had been deployed, but after the death, they had been warned, Patil said.
 
  MONKEY LOST ITS BABY 
 
  The monkey which died in a plastic bag had been creating havoc for the past few months, and bitten more than five people in the village, especially tractor drivers. The forest department took the matter seriously after the monkey bit tractor driver   on Sunday. 
 
  Forest department sources said the monkey turned into a menace after its baby came under the wheels of a tractor and died. Ever since, it had been attacking tractor drivers. 
 
