It is probably the first time in the history of Indian television that a show is having a spin-off series. ' ', which revolved around three brothers, now has a spin-off, Dil Bole Oberoi, which focuses on two brothers. So, while Shivaay (Nakuul Mehta) will continue to be the lead actor of 'Ishqbaaz', Omkara (Kunal Jaisingh) and Rudra (  Mattoo) will be a part of Dil Bole Oberoi. In a candid chat, Nakuul Mehta talks about the changing dynamics of his show... 

 
 
 I believe these are exciting times as the show has really grown and we have an offshoot now. Surbhi   and I will continue to headline Ishqbaaaz and the pressure remains the same as before.
 
 
 
 I think the show has been appreciated and so, the channel has launched an offshoot. I am an optimist and feel that if they manage to make another good show, there is no reason it will not succeed.
 
 
 
 I am a leading star on Indian TV and I take that position of privelege with a lot of responsibility. Hard work has got me here and I’m fully committed to television. TV stars are often asked about not making it in movies, but we don’t question a movie star about not succeeding on TV. It is not easy to get a show in the prime time slot. And how many Bollywood actors fare well in fiction shows? My point is, we should not look down on TV as a medium because its reach is far more than a film’s. Having said that, if there is a good subject, I will surely do a film. 
 
 
 
 I agree that we have a crackling chemistry on screen. How sad would it be if it weren’t for that since the show is called ‘Ishqbaaaz’? It also helps that my last show was a romantic saga (Pyaar Ka Dard), so by now, romance comes easy to me. Having said that, Surbhi is a delight to work with.
 
 
 
 Writers must get their due. TV shows have good budgets and I feel that if we invest in good content, our shows will be much better. We must continue experimenting with finite, high-concept shows and there will come a time when that will be the norm of the industry. As the new breed of actors working on TV, it is our responsibilty to give the industry its due and the respect it deserves through our conduct and professionalism.
 
  
  
 
