PUNE: The   would be able to undergo treatment at   again under the   from February. 

 Southern Command Army Commander   said on Saturday that the government would disburse pending bills of Ex-servicemen Contributory Health Scheme (ECHS), providing cashless treatments to the veterans, by the end of this month. 
 
 Addressing a gathering of about 1,500 ex-servicemen on the first “Veterans Day” at Bombay Engineering Group (BEG) centre, the Commander said, “We have had a discussion over ECHS with previous Army chief Dalbir Singh Suhag and he told us that the government would disburse all the pending bills by the end of January.” 
 
 Lt Gen Hariz said there had been instances wherein some of the private hospitals did not provide treatment to veterans because their bills were pending. “The ECHS scheme did not take up the leap according to the plang because of some reasons,” he said. 
 
 The scheme was having problems in terms of supply of medicines and empanelled hospitals in the country in the past few years. 
 
 The commander urged the veterans to approach the local military authority if they faced any difficulties related to ECHS. 
 
 Army sources told TOI, “The pending bills under the scheme is close to Rs 80 crore. As a result, majority of the veterans are not getting its benefits. If the government allocates adequate budget for the scheme, it will be a huge benefit for them.” 
 
 In the past, the Army had an issue with handwritten bills and they were not processed in the stipulated period. 
 
 “Now, the army has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with a private agency and all medical bills will now be generated electronically. So, there will not be any ambiguity. The bills will be cleared in a month,” the source said. 
 
 The commander said, “One should understand that the scheme is for our (armed forces) benefits. Hence, it should not be used for any wrong purpose.”
 
 A section of the veterans expressed anguish over the allocation of the budget to the scheme. 
 
 Besides the commander, a number of military and civil dignitaries, including Maj Gen Prithi Singh, Brig Dhiraj Mohan, Commandant of BEG Col Suhas Jatkar (retd), attended the event. Lt Gen Hariz also urged the veterans to use debit or credit cards at Canteen Stores Department. 
 
