RAMESWARAM: Inaugurating the Dr A P J   National Memorial at Pei Karumbu on Pamban Island in Ramanathapuram district, less than 5km from the former President's hometown of  , Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday unveiled a deep sea-fishing scheme to help fishermen from this region of  .

 Under the Centre's Blue Revolution scheme, fishermen from the southern edge of the state's coastline will be able to venture far from land and overcome the difficulties of fishing in the  , where the Sri Lankan navy has repeatedly detained them and confiscated their boats.
 
 Modi said the Centre will extend loans and subsidies from an allocation of 1,500 crore to allow these fishermen to convert their vessels into deep sea liners and acquire the gear required for expeditions far from the coastline. He also distributed letters of sanction to five select beneficiaries under the scheme.
 
 "The Indian Ocean and the 7,500km coastal line of India is full of investment potential," the Prime Minister said, adding that the Centre had conceived the Sagarmala Project, a strategic and customer-oriented initiative to modernise Indian ports with this in mind. 
 
 Addressing a large crowd that had converged on Rameswaram from districts in southern Tamil Nadu on the second death anniversary of the former President, Modi said “the sacred land of Rameswaram had given Abdul Kalam“ to the country.
 
 To honour the legacy of Kalam, the country should be “developed in all walks of life“ when it celebrates its 75th Independence Day in 2022, he said, calling on the youth of the nation -so beloved of the scientist turned-statesman -to “take an oath“ to achieve this.
 
 Thanking the Prime Minister and hailing his linking of the Blue Revolution scheme to the state's fishermen, chief minister   said the Centre would help fishermen convert 500 bottom trawlers into longliners at a cost of Rs 286 crore. In three phases, they will customise 2,000 bottom trawlers at a cost of Rs 1,621 crore.
 
 He thanked Modi for accepting “Amma's proposal“ (former chief minister J Jayalalithaa's pitch to the Centre) to allieviate the suffering of Tamil Nadu's fishermen and personally directing the Union fisheries ministry to ensure that it released adequate funds for the project.
 
 Modi paid floral tributes at Kalam Sthal after inaugurating the memorial to Kalam, which DRDO built, and hoisting the national flag. He met members of the former President's family and flagged off an exhibition bus, Kalam Sandesh Vahini, at Pei Karumbu.
 
 The prime minster also flagged off a new train, a Rameswaram-Ayodhya-Faizabad weekly express, via video conference at Mandabam on the promontory to Pamban Island and inaugurated a road between Mukundarayar Chathiram and Arichalmunai, connecting Dhanushkodi, at the southeastern tip of the island, and the mainland.
 
