NEW DELHI: After almost four months in the Pakistani army’s captivity, sepoy Chandu Babulal   is back home, stirring speculation whether his release signals just a slight thaw in India-Pakistan ties. 

 The Indian soldier, who strayed across the line of control just hours after the Indian special forces conducted “surgical strikes” on terror launch pads in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir on September 29 last year, was released on Saturday afternoon by Pakistan in what it said was a goodwill gesture. Yet, coming after the release of 220 Indian fishermen on December 25 — Pakistan PM Nawaz Sharif’s birthday — the decision to release Chavan is being seen in the context of the change of guard in the Pakistani army with the exit of General Raheel Sharif, seen behind an aggressive anti-India policy that used terror strikes to scupper peace initiatives.Pakistan’s ministry of foreign affairs, on its part, said Chavan is being sent back to India on “humanitarian grounds” and “in continuation of the Pakistan army’s efforts to maintain peace and tranquility along the LoC and working boundary”. 
 
 Chavan, 22, sporting a moustache and wearing army fatigues, was handed over to BSF officials by   at the Attari-Wagah border checkpost before the daily “beating retreat” ceremony on Saturday. After the initial formalities, Chavan was immediately whisked away by army authorities for a full medical check-up and “subsequent de-briefing” by military intelligence. “His physical and mental state will have to be thoroughly evaluated,” said a senior officer. 
 
 Chavan’s release comes at a time when India-Pakistan relations are at one of their lowest points after months of hostilities last year. The Pakistani army’s inter-services public relations wing on Saturday claimed that Chavan had “deserted” his checkpost and “wilfully” crossed the LoC on September 29 due to “grievances of maltreatment” against his commanders. He “surrendered himself to the Pakistan army” and had now been “convinced to return to his own country,” it said. The  , however, rejected this. “Chavan, who was posted with 37 Rashtriya  , did have a minor tiff with his superiors and walked off in a huff. But later, he inadvertently crossed over to PoK in the Krishna Ghati sector,” said an officer.
 
