LUCKNOW/ALLAHABAD: In 2005, then-district inspector of schools (DIOS) II of Lucknow, Umesh Tripathi, unearthed a   in an examination centre in   where loudspeakers in every classroom were connected to a   and an amplifier in the principal's office. The invigilators confessed the system was used to dictate answers in examinations.

 Fast forward to 2017 and DIOS Tripathi finds answers being dictated openly inside an examination hall in a Gomtinagar school. Tripathi raided the centre and recovered guides and books in large numbers from the room.
 
 “Earlier, chits and microphones were common. Now, chits are used less as solved answer sheets and open dictation have taken over,“ Tripathi told TOI. “With teachers and school authorities facilitating masscopying, the material being confiscated comprises guide books, smart phones and solved answer copies,“ said a government college teacher. 
 
 Chits are made available by mafia mostly in rural areas and are printed instead of being hand-written.
 
 At a few places, WhatsApp is used to send questions and receive answers.
 
 “Teachers write answers on the blackboard or simply look the other way,“ said a top education official.
 
 At an examination centre on the outskirts of Allahabad--which at 162 holds the distinction of having the most copycats this year after Ballia with 225 cases-students use codes like `pauaa' and `khamba' designated to bottom and top of the washroom door where chits were hidden. `Katappa' means the invigilatorsquad is nearby.
 
 It was also seen that sev eral examinees had removed the knobs of doors and adjusted hardware in them to hide chits. Examinees seek permission frequently to go to washroom to pick chits.
 
 In many centres in rural UP, students with the help of mafia were reported to have made a hole in the bathroom or in walls near them to place a mobile phone.
 
 UP Board's deputy secretary   said, “Of 300 students caught cheating, a big number was doing so using mobile phones.“
 
 Officials said students and teachers even try to divert the attention of flying squads. For example, if mass cheating is underway in centres in Alambagh, students and teachers here will call the control room to lodge a complaint of cheating in another locality.
 
 Sometimes. it's parents and friends of students who want them to clear exams by hook or by crook. In Shahjahanpur last year, friends and relatives gheraoed an exam centre to help their wards pass using cheating material after which police from four stations was rushed to save invigilators and the centre superintendent.
 
