KOLKATA: Conservation architects, heritage activists and prominent citizens of Kolkata are perturbed over the surreptitious manner in which KMC has downgraded buildings listed as heritage property. 

 Following the TOI report on the civic body downgrading Rennaissance poet and dramatist Michael Madhusudan Dutt’s house at 20B Karl Marx Sarani from Grade I heritage structure to Grade III, activists demanded transparency in the classification procedure, apparently mired in secrecy. “No one knows when the KMC heritage committee is in session, what is on its agenda, why it deems necessary to change a building’s heritage gradation... Even after the decision is taken, it is not made public,” said Indian National Turst for Art & Cultural Heritage (Intach) Kolkata convenor G M Kapur. 
 
 Going by the rules, the heritage committee chairman is supposed to explain the changes in writing but it remains opaque. This is inconceivable in this era when everything can be put on public domain by leveraging the internet. Kapur has written to the committee several times to add buildings to the heritage list, but not received any response.
 
 It was the demolition of an arched gateway at   on 5 Russel Street—five bishops had lived there—in 2001 that started the heritage movement. The gateway was rebuilt, but at least three heritage buildings have been razed. 
 
 The first was the demolition of actor Pramathesh Barua’s house on Ballygunge Circular Road in 2008 where a multi-storied building has been built. In 2015, Gholam Rasool Mosque, with its triple domes and twin minarets, a Grade-I heritage structure on Samsul Huda Road, was pulled down to make way for a larger mosque, even as the KMC ignored locals’ pleas to stop the razing. Two years earlier, Elphinstone Picture Palace, later renamed Minerva and then Chaplin, was demolished by KMC. Built in 1907 by  , it was the city’s oldest single screen theatre where Uttam Kumar’s father   operated the projector. Construction of a citizens’ service centre is currently on.
 
 Last year, the heritage committee quietly downgraded Roxy Cinema from grade I to III, paving the way for its demolition as well. Here, too, the KMC wants to set up an office.
 
 At 302 APC Road, the once-stately Cossimbazar Palace now appears to be crouching in fear as skyscrapers loom large over it. Much of the grounds has been “developed” and it is a matter of time, say residents, before the building vanishes.
 
 In 2008-09, KMC reportedly removed around 40 buildings from the heritage list after allegedly being paid nearly Rs 12 crore by builders. 
 
 Writer  , who is trying to inspire a citizens’ movement on preserving old buildings, said heritage was a common inheritance and could not be left to arbitrary decisions of people who had no passion or compassion for heritage. “Over the years, more buildings come under the heritage purview as they gain significance, architectural or historical. For instance, a building that was not considered heritage 50 years ago is heritage today. Citizens and experts need to be involved,” he said. 
 
 Chaudhuri recalled that in his childhood, during his annual trips to Kolkata from Mumbai, he would often marvel at the interesting houses that abounded the city’s neighbourhoods. Now half of those houses have been destroyed, while Mumbai has retained much of what it had. “The KMC heritage committee is here to protect heritage. But its actions appear to be aimed at demolishing heritage. It is sending out very confusing signals,” he said.
 
 Conservation architect Partha Ranjan Das, who was on  , said KMC ignored Unesco guidelines on listing and de-listing. “Mayor Sovan Chatterjee pledges to protect heritage and said no one could touch Grade 1 structures. But they get demolished,” he said.
 
