THIRUVANANTHAPURAM:   is not the first   to visit Sree Padmanabhaswamy Temple and in setting an example of   . Sources in the   said on an average 20 to 25 nonHindus visit the temple every month by submitting the affidavit they believe in Hinduism.

 “Before signing any major official document, I pray to Lord Padmanabhaswamy as that gives me assurance. I am a Christian and many in my faith may find it unacceptable, but I see God as one. It was providential that I tunred out to be the first non-Hindu woman to perform the Chakraptha pooja at the Sri Padmanabhaswamy Temple that starts in the morning and goes on till 2pm culminating in a holy feast for the Brahmins,“ said Congress leader Simi Rosebel, who had visited the temple more than a decade ago. Now a KPSC member, she recently made a visit to the temple again.
 
 In January this year, Russian pop singer Sataney Setgalievna Kazanova had visited the temple. Kazanova had managed to impress none other than Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his visit to Moscow in December 2015.She was born in a Muslim family but recites vedic chants. She had expressed her wish to Modi that she wants to build a Hindu temple in Russia. She caught Modi by surprise when she rendered the Ganesha Vandana flawlessly , temple officials told TOI.
 
 “Clad in a traditional Kerala sari, Kazanova came to the temple in January ,“ an official at the temple said.
 
 Among the overseas non-Hindu entrants to the temple, majority were Russians. Some were from the US and Ger many . “Most non-Hindu visitors from abroad were interested in spiritualism and many among them practise Yoga and the Hindu way of life,“ the official said.
 
 In July this year, a US resident, Roy Washington visited the temple after submitting an affidavit that he believes in Hinduism and had given a supporting document from the International Society for Krishna Consciousness (ISKCON).
 
 On August 6 this year, two Russian women visited the temple after submitting a statement of belief in Hindu faith and documents citing their allegiance to the ISKCON. On August 5 this year, a woman from Germany , who has been pursuing research in yoga and spirituality had visited the temple and indicated that her visit was spiritually rewarding.Temple officials still consider the 1936 entry proclamation, an epoch-making event during the reign of Travancore Maharaja Sree Chithira Thirunal Rama Varma, as a guiding document regarding whom to grant permission to offer prayers. The proclamation made it clear that any person who believes in the Hindu faith can be permitted to enter, temple officials said.
 
