KOLKATA: When   took over the family business five years ago, he couldn't have in his wildest nightmare thought that an egg would land him in police lockup. But when Karaya police picked him up from his store last week after a woman complained that he had sold fake eggs, it took him a while to accept the reality. Shamim is finally back to where he belongs -the Park Circus market -but a lot has changed in last few days.

 After being released by the police, Shamim stepped into his shop gingerly on Wednesday and realized within minutes that the world around him has changed all of a sudden. Egg sales had taken a major hit following the rumour that   were being sold in the market.
 
 “Our business has suffered a major setback. For me, it will be very difficult to regain the trust of customers,“ Shamim said.
 
 The controversy over `spurious eggs' has crippled egg traders at Park Circus market. And all of them are angry at being done in by rumours. Parvez Akhtar, whose shop is close to Shamim's, says business is down 60% since the controversy broke.
 
 “The hoax has spelt death knell for us. I have suffered a huge loss. I am having difficulty sustaining my family,“ said Akhtar, who has been selling 5-6 crates of eggs a day against 15 just over a week ago. “Who is responsible for this loss? How will we be compensated?“ Akhtar asked.
 
 If it is only loss of business for Akhtars and Alams, for Shamim it is also a loss of face. “How is it that police barged into my shop on the basis of a rumour and locked me up? I suffered a loss in business and my name was sullied among friends, family and acquaintances. Will   or   compensate for the loss?“ Shamim fumed.
 
 Shamim's personal life is also in disarray . “He got married only a week before the rumour. Imagine what a shock it must have been to his wife when police arrested him.His mother had fainted when police came,“ recounted Alam.
 
 Irate egg traders have vowed to `avenge' the humiliation. “We are waiting for the final test report. Armed with the report, we may move court and file a defamation suit,“ said Akhtar.
 
 Girindra Chandra Pal, the secretary of Park Circus market, said that over a 100 traders would march to the police station and ask for an explanation on Shamim's arrest on a charge that turned out to be baseless. “We have decided to take out a rally against police high-handedness on Thursday,“ Pal said.
 
