MANGALURU: Have a problem with your city's   and related issues? Fret not. An app rolled out by the   (MoUD) is all set to come to your rescue. 

 The   will help citizens draw the attention of their respective urban local bodies to a host of deficiencies in service and get the officials concerned act on it. 
 
 This app, though rolled out on a national basis, is urban local body specific, said mayor Harinath M.
 
  Exhorting people to be  , the MoUD wants all stakeholders to commit themselves to the Swachh Bharat Mission through this initiative. Ably backed by the state government, the app empowers citizens to draw the attention of ULB bosses to nine different issues. These include garbage vehicle not arriving, lack of water supply in public toilets, dead animals, public toilet blockage, cleaning of public toilets and uncleared dustbins. 
 
  The app is easy to use. To submit a garbage/sanitary issue, the user has to it click its picture, enter a landmark and submit it. Deadlines have also been set for the authorities concerned to act on various issues. A ULB has to attend to an issue of garbage vehicle not arriving within 12 hours, dead animals within 48 hours and garbage dumping in 12 hours, a pamphlet released by the mayor on Saturday explained. 
 
 Mohammad Nazeer, MCC co mmissioner, said the app will also put the onus of the respective ULBs to cater to public complaints raised through this app or through regular helplines. "While the app is universal in nature, it is ULB specific. Complaints posted using the app will reach ULBs concerned as the location coordinates are tagged," he added. 
 
  MoUD has also raised the stakes for cities to encourage people to use this app by awarding points to the cities in the Swachh Survekshan 2017 that will get under way soon, when each of its resident downloads it. 
 
  "The Swachh Survekshan strives to rank a city on cleanliness based on various parameters. The ministry has already indicated marks that each of the parameters carry," Nazeer said, adding that MCC will promote the app through various means. 
 
 
