PUNE: A large part of India is still out of the ambit of financial system -- be it basic banking or use of financial instruments. The result: Irrational choices and over reliance on relatively illiquid gold or real estate for saving and wealth creation.

 The   has long coaxed mainstream banks to use creative ways to include the excluded. A few companies have now taken up this advice.  , the new small   bank, is making use of short films to spread the message of savings. It has roped in Pradeep Sarkar of Parineeta fame to create the film Paison Ki ABCD.
 
 Multi-lingual brokerage firm,  , is making use of story books "  Tales" to inculcate the habit of financial planning early in kids. While these might be few specks in the larger need to create financial awareness, these initiatives could show the way forward for mainstream banks to emulate.
 
 Ujjivan’s 10-minute short-film focuses on protagonist Murli’s aversion to use banking services because he thinks banks are inaccessible. Slowly, as the film progresses, he comes around to accepting the idea of having a bank account.
 
 The film highlights important banking messages like “not revealing the secret code, inculcating the habit of saving, however small, and only withdrawing as much as one requires from an ATM.”
 
 The story, set in the backdrop of a small town, focusses on transformative initiatives like using just an Aadhaar to open a bank account, withdrawing or depositing money. “Paison ki ABCD seekh le bhaiya, issi se paar lagegi nayya,” (Learn the basics of money, only this can help you sail through) is a song that Ujjivan plans to leverage across platforms to drive home the message.
 
 Similarly, Zerodha has come out with a set of five books aimed at kids above the age of seven years to teach them about bank accounts, insurance, savings, benefits of paying taxes and the role of stock exchanges. Illustrated with cartoons, the short stories not only explain the concept to kids but also bring out the benefits clearly. For instance, in one of the books, the mother, Vidya, explains to her son, Abhay, the concept of stock markets using the analogy of source of money required for expansion of a cake shop. The company said that the books will soon be translated into nine regional languages. Zerodha’s books come at a cost though.
 
 The RBI has time and again coaxed banks to use innovative means to usher in financial education among masses in a simple and effective way. In a circular issued recently, the RBI advised banks to organise camps on use of digital methods for banking. Banks typically make use of posters, which are relatively less interactive, to spread the message.
 
 Even though, the government has said that 99% of the households are covered with at least one bank account due to efforts launched during the Jan-Dhan campaign, over 40% of Indians still do not have a bank account. The RBI also recently licensed payments banks and small finance banks to address the issue of under-penetration.
 
 Even now, about a fourth of 27.84 crore Jan-Dhan accounts continue to have zero-balance.
 
