NOIDA: Only eight projects were registered on the UP   website on Wednesday, the day it was launched, but some 15,000 homebuyers did not waste any time and made good use of the complaints section on the site to vent their frustration. 

 The rush was such that by the end of the day the UP government introduced a Rs 1,000 fee to lodge complaints. 
 
 “Aggrieved buyers have been lodging their complaints since morning. They are complaining not only about individual projects but also about the way ‘ongoing projects’ have been defined under UP Rera,” said Abhishek Kumar, the president of   Extension Flat Owners Welfare Association. 
 
 Noida Extension is a hub of new construction and has a slew of under-construction projects. 
 
 Officials of the builders’ body Credai (Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association) claimed the site slowed down with thousands of homebuyers registering their complaints. 
 
 “There have been 15,000 complaints on the official Rera site on Wednesday which actually slowed down builder registrations. It, however, shows that things are going to become more transparent from now on with complaints being out there for all to see,” said Amit Modi, vice-president, Credai (western UP).
 
 The Rera website (www.up-rera.in) has provisions for registration of promoters, builders, projects and agents. In Gautam Budh Nagar, including Noida and Greater Noida, there are over 80 ongoing projects by 58 builders. Thousands of agents operate in both cities.
 
 A total of eight projects were registered from three cities on the day of the   launch. Four projects from Noida and Greater Noida, three projects from Lucknow and one project from Varanasi were registered.
 
 Unlike Rera in other states, the Uttar Pradesh Rera gives a registration number as soon as the details of a project are uploaded on the website and the required fees are paid online.
 
 On day one, Supertech registered its two projects, Sports Village Phase I and Sports Village Phase II in Greater Noida. Both the projects were launched in June 2016 and the completion date is December 31, 2020. ATS registered its ongoing project Dolce in Greater Noida. The fourth project registered is in the name of AR Land Craft under partnership in Greater Noida. The project is being implemented with Godrej.
 
 In Lucknow, Eldeco registered its project Eldeco Luxa. AG Housing Pvt Ltd registered Zodiac Apartment and Oro Construction Pvt Ltd registered Oro City. Only Eldeco Luxa is a newly launched project which with construction set to begin from August 1. All other projects are ongoing.
 
 In Varanasi, NIP Housing registered NIP Grand Woods at Ganeshpur. This is an ongoing project and will be completed on December 20, 2023.
 
 “While as buyers we welcome the site, we also want a local Rera bench in Noida and Greater Noida as all issues concerning homebuyers in Gautam Budh Nagar are concentrated here. A local bench of the tribunal is crucial,” said   of the Sector 107 home buyers’ association.
 
 
