NAGPUR: Riding on the back of chief minister   and union minister  , the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has promised to make the city ‘Smart and no. 1’ in the nation. The saffron party has promised rid the city of water scarcity, potholes, dengue and malaria. It also plans to develop the city like an educational and medical hub if voted to power for the third consecutive term in the   (NMC).

 The BJP city unit, on Saturday, released its manifesto with just one day remaining for the election campaign to end and two days remaining for polling.
 
 BJP had released its manifesto for Mumbai on February 7, Pune on February 10 and other seven municipal corporations where elections are to be held. Fadnavis, Gadkari and guardian minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule were not present at Friday’s function.
 
 BJP city president Sudhakar Kohle said the manifesto was delayed due the busy schedule of Fadnavis and Gadkari. “It was necessary to discuss the contents with both. While Gadkari was busy in UP and Uttarakhand assembly elections, Fadnavis was tied up with ZP and other municipal corporation elections. Both okayed it on Friday,” he said.
 
 Mayor Pravin Datke, BJP in-charge for NMC elections and MLC Anil Sole, MP Dr Vikas Mahatme, MLC Girish Vyas, MLA Sudhakar Deshmukh, Sandip Joshi and few more leaders were present. Three MLAs — Krishna Khopde, Vikas Kumbhare, Dr Milind Mane, MLC Nago Ganar and MP   too were not present.
 
 Kohle said BJP was confident of winning 104 of the total 151 seats in the city. “There is no question of a post-poll alliance as we are sure of an absolute majority. We will free the NMC from corruption,” he said.
 
 With most of the promises retained from 2012 NMC election’s manifesto, BJP in its eight-page manifesto promised to develop the city into an educational and medical hub. “The city will be made free from dengue and malaria. Standard 1-8 in NMC schools will be converted into English medium, one CBSE-affiliated schools will be established in each assembly constituency if BJP is voted to power,” said Kohle.
 
 Some new assurances of BJP include waiver from property tax and water bill for taxpayer who is 80 years of age and 20% subsidy in property tax for retired employees and persons of 70 years and above, all only if they are regular taxpayers.
 
 Kohle also said those parties promising to reduce water and property taxes are not sure of victory, hence “they are making such bombastic announcements”.
 
 Datke said water tariff will be reduced only when NMC brings down losses. “A proper study will be done on property tax and what needs to be done to reduce tax of residential properties,” he said.
 
 BJP highlighted all projects announced or executed by Gadkari in two pages. However, there was no mention of Rs520 crore Smart City Solutions Project executed by CM in the city under which Smart Strip, CCTVs, Wi-Fi etc are being installed in various parts of the city.
 
 Kohle added the rebels will make no difference to the party’s fortunes. He also denied RSS swayamsewaks are upset with ticket distribution.
 
 BJP brought some caste colour in the manifesto by promising self-employment training to dalits and Muslims, and crematoriums for Christian and Muslim communities.
 
