NAGPUR: In terms of numbers they may not match up to the Ganesh mandals, but Durga pandals around the city during Navratri festivals get as much or even higher footfalls. Unlike the Bengali Durga puja which is held for four days, these pandals with idols of only the goddess come up on the first day and fold after the immersion on Dusshera. “ During Ganesh festival most households are busy with their rituals. But this is the time when we are relatively free and in the festive mood. So these Durga mandals give us an opportunity to worship and also get entertained,” says Shashank Pande, a homeopath and a regular visitors at these pandals.

 Firing the imagination and curiosity of the city since 2000 is the   Durga Utsav Mandal. “The first year we had put up a simple pandal with an idol made at Chitar Oli. But the number of devotees who came for darshan made us think of increasing our scale,” says corporator Avinash Thakare who initiated the puja. From the second year onwards the mandal decided to replicate famous temples of India. “Our team would visit a temple and study the architecture there and we would get it replicated here by artists from Kolkata in the same dimensions,” says Thakare. 
 
 With innumerable stalls set up, the Ujwal Nagar ground where the pandal is put up looks like a large scale fair. “But since last year we have scaled down the arrangements because of the Metro project,” says Thakre. “There is already a lot of traffic congestion on Wardha Road. This made entering from the main road impossible,” he says lamenting the lack of festive feel this year.
 
 The mood is upbeat at the Rani Laxmi Nagar Durga Utsav Mandal where a replica of Metro coaches, engine and a station has been set up. “Here we have a good blend of religion, patriotism and cultural activities,” says mandal president Prasanna. “Metro rail is the dominant flavour of the city, we wanted to give Nagpurians a feel of it,” he says. Mohile invited artists from Kolkata to create the station and also the Durga idol which is styled like the ones seen at Bengali Durga puja pandals. “We also have a good line of cultural activities and a photo gallery on Shahid Bhagat Singh,” he informs.
 
 In its 30th year, the Durga puja mandal at Abhyankar Nagar attracts thousands of devotees. “The scale has changed over the years and sometimes I have been wondering whether to continue it or not,” says former corporator Vikas Thakare, who is also the founder of the puja. “But the devotees have so much faith in the goddess that they keep coming for darshan,” he says. 
 
  “Initially we used to get the material and do the decoration ourselves. But now it is professionally done though we still do not collect any donations or sponsorships,” he adds. 
 
