GURGAON:   in   1, on Monday, turned away two of its students, on the grounds their fees had not been paid for the last two years. The school is already vexed by a legal tussle stemming from a case filed by 15 parents in September 2016.

 Ramphal Sheoran, one of the parents whose children were denied entry into the school premises on Monday, told TOI they were paying fees regularly, but had only refused to pay the “illegitimately charged” annual fee. “We won’t pay this fee. We duly pay the normal fee, which is Rs 5,251, every month. But they have slapped an additional Rs 34,000 as annual fee on us, which is not done. We’ve accessed the school’s Form VI from the district education officer and realised that this fee was not legitimate,” said the lawyer who had filed the case against the school on behalf of the 15 parents.
 
 Under rules 158 and 160 of  , 1995 (HSEA), schools are required to file Form VI to the state director of education (DoE) by January 1 every year, before the commencement of a new session, and, other than what is mentioned in the form, they cannot charge anything extra without prior permission of the DoE. The HSEA guidelines also disallow schools against charging any fees except for sports, tuition and Red Cross fund, even though principals of private schools in   maintain the rule applies only to government schools, not them.
 
 “The school is violating the education policy. Yet, authorities seem incapable of acting against the school,” said Sheoran, who is a member of Haryana Abhibhavak Manch, a parents’ body.
 
 The affected parents said the school had called them on March 20, the day when annual results were declared, and quietly slipped School Leaving Certificates for their kids into their hands. “We were shocked. On the one hand, they were violating rules, and on the other, they were punishing us for raising our voice against the injustice,” said Jyoti Dembla, the other affected parent, whose daughter was also turned away on Monday.
 
 Dembla said they took up the matter with all authorities. “On April 7, the district education officer (DEO) had issued a notice to the school, saying it cannot expel the children because the issue was pending with the fee regulatory committee. Today, when we went to the school and furnished the letter before them, they trashed it and blocked our children’s way,” she said. “We informed the DEO. She said she will email the school. But the school continues to flout government rules with impunity.”
 
 The school denied all accusations. “They have arrears pending to the tune of Rs 50,000, which they have been asked to clear several times,” said Atul Bhatt, principal, Shalom Hills International School. “If they have any financial issue, they can raise it with us. Instead, they are trying to instigate people on social media and through press. We only issued discharge certificates due to non-payment of fees, which is within our legal parameters.” When TOI tried to contact DEO Neelam Bandhari, her phone was switched off.
 
 
