BENGALURU: Nearly 5,000  , who gathered at the Palace Grounds on Sunday, got another chance to earn with over 60 recruiters offering them a host of jobs. At the end of the day, 2,200 of them landed   and the process to employ more has been initiated.

 The fair, organized by the Nightingale Empowerment Foundation (NEF) with the Karnataka Vocational Training and Skill Development Corporation (KSVTSDC), was open to financially weak but physically fit seniors, aged between 60 and 70.
 
 “Fairs like these are important for the elderly. We will try and organize more across the state, especially in districts so that the needy can be identified and properly trained,” KSVTSDC Chairperson   said.
 
 “In other countries, the government takes care of senior citizens, but that is not the case here. They have a lot of experience that hasn’t been tapped into yet,” said S  , co-founder, Nightingales Medical Trust (NMT). Besides finding jobs for them, the trust is also imparting skills. The average salary of those employed on Sunday was between Rs 12,000 and Rs 15,000 a month.
 
 “Our monthly pension is only Rs 2,500, unlike government employees who get Rs 20,000. A job that pays a little more will be of great help,” said Brahmananda C V, 61, who worked with an MNC for 35 years.
 
 Vasundhara, 70, was glad to have made the cut. Having worked as a junior assistant with a state government undertaking for 20 years, her monthly pension was a meagre Rs 1,500. After her husband’s death, she was left fending for herself. “One younger senior citizen asked me why I was running around looking for a job like them. He said I should join hands with a group of women and start making pickles or candles as that would be less stressful. But I’m looking for accountancy work. The other applicants told me that such jobs are very hard to get, but I’m still going to try,” she said.
 
 For  , 74, who had worked with Bangalore University in the administration section, it was about utilizing time on hand. “While I do get a regular pension, I don’t want to sit idle through the day. Since I’m interested in sketching, calligraphy and art, I was hoping to find something in that field,” he said.
 
