NEW DELHI: Sasikala’s ambition of becoming chief minister of Tamil Nadu crashed in courtroom No. 6 of the   at 10.36 am, just four minutes after Justices P C Ghose and A Roy assembled to pronounce the verdict.

 Courtrooms in the SC open every day at 9.45 am, a good 45 minutes before the scheduled start of proceedings.
 
 On Tuesday, there was a rush of lawyers, mostly from Tamil Nadu, supporters of   and   and, of course, those supporting   as well as other curious onlookers.
 
 In addition, there was a crowd of journalists. Apart from the regular ones were those working in Delhi for publications from Tamil Nadu. Further swelling the numbers inside the courtroom were security personnel.
 
 The irrepressible  , whose complaint before the trial court in 1996 led to registration of the case against  , could not but be present in the front row of the sitting area before the judges’ dais. By 10.15 am, the courtroom was packed. One could hear anxious voices at the single door asking people inside to make some space. Inside the courtroom, many were busy articulating their hunch and asking others to take a guess about the judgment.
 
 Two judgments were brought into the courtroom by the court staff in sealed covers — one very thick and the other thin — at 10.24 am. Justices Ghose and Roy climbed on the dais and took their seats at 10.32 am to usher pindrop silence. Anxious faces waited transfixed. Journalists had their notebooks and pens ready. The sealed packets were opened to bring out the judgments. The thickness of one judgment, which turned out to be 563 pages, drew exclamations. As silence returned, Justice Ghose conceded that the judgment was rather “fatty”.
 
 He read out the unanimous verdict at 10.36 am, “We have restored the trial court verdict in toto.” The silence was ruptured as the verdict triggered a mad rush from journalists and advocates to rush out and break the news that Sasikala was convicted and sentenced to four years imprisonment.
 
 A lone voice was heard, “Chinnamma (Sasikala) cannot be   (Jayalalithaa).” What he meant was Sasikala now cannot run for the post of chief minister since the conviction and sentence bars her from contesting elections under the Representation of the People Act.
 
 After Justice Ghose read out the brief operative portion from his judgment, no one waited, except Swamy and other lawyers who had argued the case from the involved parties, to hear Justice Roy reading out his ‘thin’ seven-page judgment expressing angst against spread of corruption in the country.
 
