JHANSI: The demand for ‘Central University' status to UP government’s Bundelkhand University has intensified with UP elections.   (BUTA) had recently initiated a signature campaign on the issue and forwarded a memorandum to BJP national president Amit Shah when the leader had come to the area for election campaign. 
 
  “'  status' to Bundelkhand University will be a turning point for the region marred by burning issues such as migration and crumbling agriculture sector,” said D K Bhatt, general secretary, BUTA.
  
  “Currently, only seven departments of the university are being funded by the state government while the remaining 19 are self-financed. Ironically, all technical courses fall under the self-financed category, for which the average fees is Rs 10,000 per year. Due to extreme poverty in the region, students can't afford skill-oriented courses. If the university comes under the central government, fund crunch will become a thing of the past. Fees for courses will get reduced and we can even start research departments to tackle the economic problems in the region, apart from subsidising the cost of education,” said M L Maurya, chief proctor of the university.
  
  
  According to officials, the institution got the university status in 1997. At that time there were just seven faculty members. Now, there are close to 300 teachers, of which only 56 get their salaries from the government. The rest are all paid from the course fees collected under the self-financing scheme. Currently, it is the only university that caters to the seven districts of Bundelkhand. Around 200 colleges — of which 17 are government-aided and the rest are private institutions — are affiliated to the varsity.
  
  “An educational institution has a big role to play in the development of a region. First, affordable education will help the unprivileged to gain knowledge. Second, this area will become an education hub, bringing in students from across the region and country. Third, with adequate funds, we will be able to open extensions in remote areas of the Bundelkhand region and can offer courses specific to the needs of a particular area. Nearly 80% of the population here are dependent on agriculture, and, hence, research is necessary to boost the agriculture sector. For instance, water crisis is a big issue here and long spells of drought and failing agriculture are causing large-scale migration. We can give technical assistance to farmers to handle the crisis,” said Bhatt.
  
  Though the central government had started an agricultural university here in 2014 by the name of Rani Laxmibai Central  , not many courses are offered here even after three years of its opening. With already established infrastructure, Bundelkhand University can start functioning as a central university without having to create the facilities from scratch, feel educationists.
  
  According to educationists, illiteracy and caste politics has ruined the region. “Even if you talk of development, caste divide is so vicious and deep here that at the end of the day, voting is done on caste lines. Why will politicians bother about burning issues of the region when they can win election by stoking caste politics? The only solution we can see under these circumstances is to educate the masses. Proliferation of education in the region will dispel the dark clouds of casteism, which is destroying Bundelkhand,” said C V Singh, professor of economics at the finance department of the university.”
