ROHTAK: Tension gripped the city on Thursday following a scuffle between controversial preacher Rampal’s supporters and residents of Singhpura village over removal of   being built in restricted area near the national highway. Now, the villagers have called a mahapanchayat on Sunday to oppose the development.

 Accompanied by police, a team of the district town and country planning (TCP) department reached the spot with JBC machines to demolish the structure coming up in about one acre area on the  . However, Rampal’s supporters reached the spot soon after and tried to stop them from pulling down the structure. Situation turned tense as they resisted the demolition and Singhpura residents backed the administration. It soon led to a scuffle between the two groups.
 
 Rohtak   (DCTP) officer Rajkiran said they had received complaint from the village sarpanch and several Arya Samaj leaders about the illegal construction activity of the site. “When we inspected the site, it was found that they had done construction within 30 metres of controlled area of NH, which is illegal. Besides, they were served multiple notices in more than a month,” she said.
 
 Rampal supporters and Arya Samaj followers have a bloody history since 2007. At Karontha village of the district preacher Rampal, criticised the philosophy of Arya Samaj founder Swami Dayanand.
 
 Arya Samajis played a key role in the arrest of Rampal in November, 2014, when the latter hid himself at his ashram in Barwala town of Hisar after evading the contempt notice of the Punjab and Haryana high court.
 
 Singhpura sarpanch Parmod Kumar said they had submitted a written application in the Rohtak deputy commissioner’s office on Thursday to either demolish the under-construction Satlok Ashram by Sunday or else they would themselves be responsibile for the consequences.
 
 Questioning the role of administration, Kumar said they had informed DCTP office one and half month ago but it did not act and its officials retreated on Wednesday when they came to demolish it by serving Rampal’s supporter another week’s notice to remove it on their own.
 
 However, Vijay Kumar, a Rampal supporter on whose land construction was going on, claimed that he was not building the ashram at the site but was making temporary accommodation for the outstation followers to stay for food while coming and going to Rohtak.
 
 Rohtak superintendent of police (SP) Pankaj Nain said the situation was under control and police teams were keeping a tab on the activities.
 
