PATNA: In its centenary year, Patna   (PU) is likely to open ten new departments of higher studies. A decision to this effect was taken by the PU academic council at its meeting held here under the chairmanship of VC  .

 The new departments would include those of computer science, disaster management, environmental science, music, herbal chemistry, performing art, electronics, women’s studies, social work and anthropology. 
 
 Teaching of statistics at the undergraduate level in Patna Science College, Patna College, Magadh Mahila College and Patna Women’s College would also start. A proposal for creating these new departments, with the sanction of at least four posts of teachers, including one each of professor and associate professor and two of assistant professors, in each department would be sent to the state government soon.
 
 The academic council decided that the classes of all the self-financing and vocational courses running in different colleges and PG departments of PU will run only from 7am to 11am and from 3pm to 7pm so that the classes of conventional courses are not disturbed. If any vocational course is not able to run in the forenoon and afternoon hours, it would be closed for ever, said the VC. 
 
 The VC said the entire PU campus would be given a facelift with the grants sanctioned by the state government for its much-needed infrastructural development. The Darbhanga House complex would be renovated at a cost of Rs 2.27 crore. Besides, the department of ancient Indian history and archaeology, the Institute of Psychological Research and Services and the PU Central Dispensary would be repaired and renovated at a cost of Rs 40 lakh each. 
 
 The state government has also sanctioned a sum of about Rs 4 crore for centenary celebrations.
 
 SXC: At least 40 volunteers of the Eco Mitra Club of St Xavier’s College and St Xavier’s College of Management-Digha organized a flash mob at a mall near Dak Bungalow roundabout on Wednesday. They made people aware about the harmful effects of deforestation and the dangers of rash driving. 
 
 The programme was coordinated by college principal Fr T Nishaant SJ and the faculty members.
 
 Bachelor of Business Economics student Sahil Verma said it was a wonderful experience for him. “We chose the issue of reckless driving because one of our friends was badly injured in a road accident recently,” he added.
 
 St Michael’s: A 6-feet high statue of Mother Mary with baby Jesus was installed near the entrance gate at St Michael’s High School on the occasion of its Feast Day on Wednesday. 
 
 The programme started with a prayer song by the students which was followed by a mass prayer conducted by school  , principal Fr Armstrong Edison and vice-principal Fr Prakash Anthony SJ. 
 
 Students, headmistress Vishakha Sinha and teachers also participated in the prayer service. The students also presented a skit on the life of the school’s patron saint St Michael.
 
 CUSB: As part of the ‘Swachhta Hi Seva’ campaign, the students and teachers of Central University of South Bihar (CUSB) on Wednesday pledged to keep their surroundings clean.
 
 
