HOWRAH:   to the   has been slightly offset with tax breaks announced for micro, small and medium enterprises in this Budget, but that may be too little, too late for a 700-year-old cottage industry struggling to stay afloat.

 Zari embroidery, a   thriving in Howrah's Uluberia since the Mughal times, has almost been wiped out in the last two months. The needles that sewed ethereal designs on dhaddas (wooden frames) have stopped; about 90% of the 4-lakh work force is starving. Across Uluberia, Bauria, Panchla, Bagnan, Amta, Sankrail and Shyampur blocks, a once-booming selfsufficient business is in a shambles.
 
 History has it that zari karigars of these villages were commissioned by the Mug hal court to make makhmali dresses for the royalty. With time, the embroiderers started getting orders from across the globe, especially Muslim-majority countries.
 
 Most ostagars -the commissioning businessmen under whom embroiderers work -stop taking orders beyond Diwali, such is the November-February peak season rush because of marriages. And 2016 was no different; orders had come in from across the country and from Dubai, the UAE, Bangladesh, Pakistan and Afghanistan. Work was onin full swing till Novem ber 8 when Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the note ban that brought everything to a shocking halt. Cancellations started the very next day . Calculating since then, the All India Zari Union has in a letter to chief minister Mamata Banerjee, quantified the total loss from cancelled orders at Rs 100 crore.
 
 As orders vanished, ostagars were forced to retrench embroiderers. Kazi Nawab Ali, who employs 200 workers in his Kazi Zari Works, said, “ All my orders got cancelled. While I can still sustain, imagine the condition of my workers dependent on daily wages.“
 
 At Kazipara in Chengail, men and women in almost every household are zari embroiderers. “Our family of five, including two children, is starving. I am even willing to work at construction sites,“ said She ikh Taiyyabur, who is a khaga master -designer who copies designs to proportion on dresses and saris.
 
 During peak season, each embroiderer earns between Rs 350-500 a day , depending on his seniority and expertise. “Now we are going from one ostagar to another begging for work. We are available for less than Rs 100 a day now,“ said Sheikh Masiha, a senior embroiderer. Cheap dried sea fish that sell for Rs 50 per kilogram is what workers have been surviving on. “Fish curry with rice once a day is our diet,“ rued Amina Bibi, an embroiderer. Amina, a mother of two, recently pawned her gold earrings.
 
 Though the cash flow and ATM limits have eased in the city , the All India Zari Union said ostagars are still unable to withdraw beyond Rs 2,000 from banks and ATMs once every alternate day. The wage mostly is being given in Rs 10 coins. “We have started visiting big brands like DM, Karim Dress, Gazi and Pari for fresh orders. But if we don't get to withdraw enough cash how will our business start? An average ostagar would require Rs 5 lakh a week to buy materials,“ said Kazi Nawab Ali, president of the union.
 
 The state government had formed a zari hub near Sankrail five years ago to help zari workers and ostagars with direct sales, circumventing the mahajans. But the hub is yet to take off, and post-notebandi, weaving these dreams will be a tall ask.
 
