With the arrival of summer, the swimming pools of Gurgaon have thrown their gates open once again. As the school exams draw to an end, kids are heading over to the pools for their swimming classes, and coaches in Gurgaon say that 2017 promises to be a bumper year. Buoyed by the performance of Gurgaon's own   – who represented India at the Rio Olympics – and an overall increase in competitive swimming, academies are seeing up to a 40% rise in enrollment this year.

  
 
 Speaking to us earlier this year, Shivani had said, "The number of kids at the pools in Gurgaon has increased in the last six months, which is surprising, because winters generally see a dip in the number of people at swimming pools. I'm confident that in the summer of 2017, the interest levels will go higher still." Coaches attest to Shivani's observation, saying that the number of youngsters in the pools has gone up by almost 40% as compared to last year. They also say that this year, more kids are taking up swimming as a competitive sport, and not just a hobby. And to give a further boost to it, many places in the city are planning to introduce heated pools, something that Gurgaon lacks currently.
 
 
 
  
  Shivani Kataria (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  VB Saigal, a coach at  , says, "We see roughly about a 20% increase in the numbers every year, but this year, it has increased to 40%. Our batches begin in March, and it is usually by mid-March that the kids start getting enrolled after their school exams are over. This year, however, our batch is already the biggest it has ever been, and more kids are expected to join by April."
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  Devinder Lamba, who runs the   in Sector 23, adds, "There has been a 25% increase in the number of kids as compared to last year. The growth is usually gradual and new kids come in every few days of March. But this year, the start has been superb with almost twice as many kids as last year enrolling on the first few days itself. This shows that the interest levels are high."
 
  
 The difference in Gurgaon's swimming scene this year is that the kids are now considering swimming as a competitive sport, not a hobby. Sandeep Tokas, Shivani’s coach and former national champion, explains, "Earlier, kids used to treat swimming as a hobby. But now, many have expressed an interest to take it up as a competitive sport. That has been the major difference."
 
  Roopak, a nine-year-old swimmer from Sushant Lok, says, "I started swimming this year because I wanted to learn how to swim. But more than that, it’s my dream to represent India in the international games someday." Parents, who have been taking their kids for swimming lessons, also agree on the increased level of interest of their kids in the sport. Amit Bhatia, a father of two kids aged seven and nine, who have started swimming this year, says, "The kids watched synchronized swimming in the Olympics last year, and have been pushing me to take them for swimming classes ever since. Since the academies are closed in winters, I used to take them to the society’s indoor pool. But now, I have enrolled them at an academy. It's a good sport, one that develops your overall physique and fitness, and gives you a skill that you can use anywhere."
 
  Kids admit that they are inspired by Shivani's feat, who they see as someone from among them. Akshita, a 13-year-old from DLF Phase 2, says, "I knew how to swim, but had only taken up swimming in summer vacations previously. But after reading about Shivani last year, I was determined to take it up more seriously. I might be a little old to start competitive swimming now, but I can certainly give it my best."
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 Due to the weather in the winters, pools in most places in north India are closed from October to February. But cities like Delhi and Karnal have heated indoor pools, where kids can practise even during the winter. Till now, Gurgaon lacked heated pools, but academies say that it is set to change. Tokas says, "The biggest hurdle in the growth of swimming in Gurgaon has been the lack of indoor heated swimming pools. Delhi has a few of those, which means that kids there can continue swimming year-round, while the pools in Gurgaon have to remain shut from October to February. That affects continuity. However, looking at the level of interests this time, it is important to make these academies functional all through the year. I am also planning to turn the pool in my academy (in Sector 14) into a heated one by next winter."
 
 
  
  (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
  A number of other pools, out of which many are run by the MCG, also plan to introduce indoor pool concepts by this winter. Saigal says, "I'm sure that heated pools will only help the swimming academies of Gurgaon because even after a six-month gap, the interest levels remain high. I was surprised to see that the kids that returned in March were more than those in October. If the winter break is done away with, the numbers will go even higher."
 
 
 
 
