PUNE: The state   (CID) will soon find it easier to match the   of suspects involved in   identify them faster. 

 The state home department has accepted the CID's proposal for an Automated Multimodal Biometric Identification System (AMBIS) which can match and analyse one lakh fingerprints in 10 minutes, enabling quick identification of suspects. 
 
 Additional director general of police (CID)   told TOI that the government has given its nod to procure the system. "Tenders will be issued soon. The automated system can scan about one lakh fingerprints in 10 minutes. It can generate 10 results which have good similarities with the fingerprints of the suspects," he added.
 
 So far, the CID had computerized fingerprint data but did not have the multimodal biometric identification system. CID officers match the fingerprints by overlapping them on a computer screen and information about the suspects is provided to the police unit.
 
 Singhal told TOI that the CID has fingerprint data of six lakh suspects from all the police units in the state. "We take down fingerprints of the arrested suspects and convicts. Police found 'chance fingerprints' at a crime scene and these too are saved online," he said.
 
 Chance fingerprints are obtained from the crime scene, especially of a murder or a theft if a suspect had touched any object or article in the house.
 
 Local police units keep storing these fingerprints online. The server is located at the state CID's headquarters in Pashan. The fingerprint bureau of the CID keeps matching and analysing the fingerprint data as and when required. The local police units also send requests to the CID to analyse the fingerprint data of the suspects.
 
 " The present computerized system is a lengthy procedure and most of the matching is done by the experts by observing the fingerprints on the computer screens or sometimes on using projectors," he said.
 
 The new equipment will enhance the efficiency of the police and punishment for repea offenders. "Supposed a house break-in repeats and police manage to get chance fingerprints every time from the crime scene after his arrest, his punishment can be enhanced. It will improve the conviction rate as it is a scientific procedure," Singhal said. 
 
