From her off shoulder blouses to her popular dialogue typically middle class,   completely owns the character of Maya   from TV show Sarabhai vs Sarabhai.
 
  The actress is all set to entertain us once again in the second season of Sarabhai vs Sarabhai: Take 2 which will be a web series.
  
  In an interview with the Timesofindia.com, the actress talks about her excitement of returning after a gap of 10 long years and more.
  
  
 
 
 
  
  Because nobody writes a show like Sarabhai vs Sarabhai. Why would I want to do anything else? I like a show which has intelligence and story. A show which is progressive in thought doesn't stretch like a rubber band and has interesting characters. Tell me another show on TV or web which has any of these. I rest my case.
  
  
 
  
  I am happy to be Maya, but let me tell you I am equally   in real life. I can absolutely understand why Monisha washes her plastic, paper cups and reuses them. I also do them at home. I do feel a lot of stuff that Monisha says is what my Mom told me or our moms told us. And we all made a joke out of it. We always think recycling is stupidity and only poor people do it. I think recycling is the need of the day today. I absolutely agree with Monisha when she washes milk packets and reuses them, even I do that at my home. I think all of us should do it. It's nothing embarrassing or low market about it.
  
  
 
  
  We all beat up each other and at the end whoever survives wins the case (laughs).
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  They were equally excited and happy like me. I am hoping they will like the series.
  
  
 
  
  I would say   and Monisha. I think they have patience. They don't talk and think rubbish. They actually talk about work. Though Monisha stretches a topic for quite a long, but she makes sense. We love her silliness. Indravadhan, on the other hand, is on the face.
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
   , of course, and this time before starting the shoot we all watched. I personally watched episodes with the purpose of preparing for the role, but all I did was just laughed and laughed. That's when I realized that If I can have so much fun watching myself on screen even after 10 years, the audience's will definitely love it.
  
  
 
  
  I was scared initially that I won't be able to catch up the character and I will take some time to get used to it. But I think the way Aatish seamlessly writes the characters, my job became easy. Because of his writing, I had to just start where we left the show.   often tells this and I also agree with him. There have been times when we worked on different projects and we had to work really hard to make audiences believe that we have actually said those lines. We have actually made changes on some of the writers work. But with Sarabhai we get lines, we prepare ourselves and just deliver our performance.
  
  
 
 
 
  
  I think all of us are crazy.   sometimes gets fed up with all of us and yells saying please guys we are here to work stop joking amongst yourselves. Then I have to behave like a school teacher with them.
  
  
 
  
  I hope so. I believe a lot of people have moved to online. I hear that when I meet people. A lot of people have watched the previous season also online. So I just hope there shouldn't be a problem. Having said that there have also been people like my vegetable vendor who recently asked me how can she watch the show on TV. Even my aunt called up to inform me that I will have to send a DVD of the series to her when it gets over.
  
  
 
  
  Not many but yes there have been few instances. Television is the medium where you don't remain yourself and you become the character. They identify with you only as a character. Fortunately for me, I have not done too much of TV, so people still recognize me first as an actor and then as a character.
  
  
 
  
  Now, I have started getting satisfied as I am offered roles which push, challenges me to do something better and different.
  
  
 
  
  I am doing  's Mubarakaan. It's an interesting and exciting role. There's another beautiful film I am doing with debutant director   called Love Per Square Feet.
