Ahmedabad: The friendship of   and Sura   has passed all the tests thrown at them by life – be it social criticism or the  . Even Bharwad’s suspected death has not destroyed their friendship. 

  After the 2002 riots, the two main   were suspicious of each other but not Alam and Bharwad. It is examples like their friendship that still give hope of future goodwill. 
 
 After Bharwad was reported dead in 2012, Alam raised money for his wife, Valiben, by selling off his land. He has been providing for her in memory of his friendship with Bharwad.
 
 Alam still remembers the traumatic days of the riots that took place 15 years ago. 
 
 “I had met Sura around 22 years ago when he came from a village in Surendranagar district with his wife,” Alam said. “His was a love marriage because of which his family had severed all ties with him.” 
 
 Alam said they worked together at a few places after which they decided to open an eatery. 
 
 “The riots took place when the eatery had not even completed one year,” Alam said.
 
 Those were terrible days and Bharwad often stayed behind to ensure that the eatery was not burnt like many shops. The locality had already witnessed more than 10 deaths in the riots. 
 
 “The riotous mobs got their opportunity when Bharwad was out one day and burnt the eatery down. Our friendship was being watched and both of us had been told not to do business with those of the other community. However, our friendship was stronger than such warnings,” Alam said.
 
 After all their savings were gone, the two friends again worked for a while before working independently for small firms. 
 
 Ten years after 2002, Bharwad died in April 2012. He had apparently fallen into a sewage pit from a pumping station. 
 
 Alam believes that it was probably the strong stench of chemicals that made Bharwad unconscious and he fell into the pit. Officials and workers searched for several days but could not find his body. On the records of Vatva GIDC police station, Bharwad is still mentioned as ‘missing person’.
 
 “The task before me was how to take care of Sura’s wife, Valiben,” Alam recalled. “The couple did not have any child and Sura’s family would not accept her. She was forced to work to make ends meet.” 
 
 He gave her whatever money he could afford but he knew that it was not enough. 
 
 “I then decided to sell a piece of land near the ring road and put Rs 2.5 lakh into her bank account,” Alam said. “It was half of the total money I had received for the land. It was my duty as a friend of her husband to provide for her.” 
 
 He further said that today she gets interest on the money in the bank and also receives help from Good  . 
 
 Valiben agreed with all that Alam had said. “Anwarbhai takes care of all the accounts,” Valiben said. “I am illiterate. It is great of him that he did not forget his friendship with my husband. He could have forgotten it after my husband disappeared. Violence doesn’t help anyone.”
 
