PUNE: Sharp criticism and huge uproar from teachers regarding the government order to take selfies with school children has put the state education department on the back-foot and forced it to indefinitely stay the notification on Wednesday.

 The scheme, which was set to begin on the first Monday of January, hit a roadblock initially because of a technical snag. A state-wide protest by teachers' associations hampered it the second Monday.
 
 Minister of education   told TOI the scheme was misinterpreted by teachers, so a decision was taken to stay the scheme till further notice. Teachers got confused about taking selfies of regular and out-of-school children, when the government wanted them to capture only out-of-school children, Tawde said.
 
 Tawde told TOI, “The decision has been stayed and not withdrawn. Some district education officials completely misinterpreted the notification. Instead of a selfie with out-of-school children, students who are regular were also included in photographs. The idea was to capture only those who were irregular and repeat the practice every Monday till the stu dents became regular. Most of the responsibility to make out-of-school children attend school regularly was on teachers."
 
 District education officials have now been told to conduct meetings with teachers and explain the concept to them, and once they are ready, the scheme would be brought back, Tawde said.
 
 Tawde also alleged, “A lot of teachers' unions in the state were politicising the issue and influencing teachers to protect their own interests.“
 
 The state government's initiative to arrest school dropout rate by using selfies of students in classes was termed `non-academic' by teachers' associations on January 9, the second Monday of the month.
 
 The unions of protesting teachers listed reasons ranging from having to spend money from their own pockets, poor mobile network to tea ching hours being wasted to run the scheme.
 
 According to a government resolution issued last November, the teachers were told to take a photo with students in groups of 10 on every Monday .
 
 
 
 
 Teachers' unions in the state expressed satisfaction about the stay but said it is just a political stunt ahead of the February 21 civic polls.
 
 A president of a union said, “A few aspiring contestants from the   met the minister on Tuesday evening and told him about the negativity that was spreading among schools and teachers. A group of party workers and aspiring contestants also told the minister that the negativity would go against the contestants during civic polls and that a stay on this decision would benefit them.“
 
 
 
 
 The state government needs to do a reality check and think twice before introducing schemes like `taking selfies with students' if it wants to save the embarrassment of a rollback.
 
 The primary job of teachers is to teach to the best of their abilities and not waste time in non-academic activities like taking selfies or counting animals or recording family planning cases. Effective implementation of the Right to Education Act, the 25% reserved quota and assurance of quality education is necessary. The government must focus on these aspects rather than ideas that sound attractive but may not serve any purpose.
 
 
