NAGPUR: The tribal development department on Monday revoked its stay on the sale of   under   (CFR) by the 38   from  .

 Manisha Verma, principal secretary for tribal department, confirmed that the stay has been revoked and Gondia district collector has been asked to guide the group of gram sabhas for smooth going of tendu auction.
 
 TOI on March 26 was first to report how villagers from these 38 gram sabhas in   and Deori talukas were up in arms against state government decision to stall its auction process. They had also made representation to tribal department.
 
 The tribal department on March 9 had stayed the auction process and directed 38 gram sabhas in both places to recomplete the auction process under the supervision of district collector. 
 
 The move followed after a report by Gondia collector who conducted an inquiry based on a complaint filed by Gondia Beedi Leaves Contractors Association alleging there is no transparency in sale of tendu patta by group of gram sabhas. 
 
 Talking to TOI, Verma said Gondia deputy conservator of forests had reported that villagers suffered over a loss of Rs1.85 crore by not following e-tendering procedure.
 
 “However, prima facie it doesn’t seem to be a loss as the rate considered by the forest officials in the report pertained to last year (Rs5,200-5,500 per standard bag of tendu). 
 
 “The group of gram sabhas in their representation pointed out that they sold their produce for Rs8,331-9,312 this year and hence they stand to gain by over Rs1 crore,” Verma said.
 
 Later, in an another report, the Gondia deputy conservator calculated the sale proceeds of tendu by gram sabhas and said that even if new rate of Rs7595-11395 of forest department was considered, the villages will suffer a loss of Rs55 lakh.
 
 However, gram sabhas contended that they still stand to gain by Rs49 lakh by the procedure it followed by auctioning its produce to a trader from Gondia for Rs9,500 per standard bag.
 
 Verma admitted that the department had no intention to infringe the rights of gram sabhas which they have got under the  . 
 
 “I have asked the district collector to ensure that their rights are not breached and guide them to go through the process peacefully,” the principal secretary said.
 
 As per the GR, auctioning beyond Rs 3 lakh has to be done via e-tenders only. But these gram sabhas, considering the huge loss they suffered in the last three years, sold their produce to a single trader who offered good price.
 
 The complaint was a fallout of vested interest. It is the prerogative of gram sabhas as to whom they wish to sell their produce, said Tularam Uike of Deori gram sabha representatives. “We will not accept the orders,” he added.
 
 
