PUNE: Residents and business owners with expired or about-to-expire leases can relax till at least the end of 2018, as a recent   (MoD) order has extended them till December 31, 2018, for properties located inside and outside of notified civil areas in cantonments across India.

 However, this extension has quite a number of riders attached to it (see box for details), as detailed in the MoD order, dated March 10, 2017.
 
 A crucial relief has also been granted to expired lease holders who may have changed the nature of the property — residential to commercial or vice versa -- from the original purpose for which the lease was granted.
 
 “This is a provision which will be very helpful for quite a number of residents of the Cantonment. But these cases will be dealt with on an individual basis. What will be seen in these cases is that whether the changes of purpose are within acceptable limits of the Cantonment Act, 2006. A committee will be formed to decide these cases,” says D N Yadav, the chief executive officer of the   ( ).
 
 The PCB will be one of the largest beneficiaries of the order, with as many as 146 properties --- both commercial and residential and overwhelmingly in the civil areas, will see their leases extended. A few other Cantonments are yet to collate their lists, but officials estimate that across all Cantonments in the Southern Command, the number of people affected due to this order will be “a few thousands”.
 
 The said committee, according to officials from the Defence Estates Organisation, will be composed of the   of the given Command, the senior-most chief executive officer among all Cantonments in the area, the local Defence Estates Officer (DEO), and a representative of the concerned Command.
 
 While officials are still working out the modalities as to which changes of purpose to condone, they indicated that minor breaches may get a pass.
 
 “If a lease holder is found to have converted his/her residential property into a commercial one on a minor scale and only for his or her self-sustenance, then the committee might give them an exception and grant them an extension of lease,” says a senior official at the Principal Directorate of Defence Estates, Southern Command.
 
 But what after December 31, 2018? “The MoD will have to decide that in due course, as to whether they have to apply for a new lease or not,” the official added.
 
