KOCHI: Money is everything. Or so you thought. How about being part of a network, where money is eased out and instead time rules? 

 Welcome time bank, a concept new to Kochi. Sixteen professionals in the city have joined hands to set up a time bank, which allows people to exchange services using units of time.
 
  (KTB), accredited by HourWorld, an international network of time banks) will ensure that each member earns 'time credit' for each hour they spend helping other members of the community. In other words, services are traded among its members, using time as currency.
 
  Majority of the members are 'gift economy' enthusiasts and have been operating on an experimental basis for five months. Now, in order to attract more people into its fold, KTB is all set to hold its first orientation programme for 50 people at Kakkanad on Friday. 
 
 The participants will be enrolled as part of the KTB only after scrutiny and gauging their commitment to gift economy.
 
 "Within a year we expect to have around 150 members. We want people from diverse groups to be part of the project. Currently, the members of the time bank include doctors, engineers, writers and digital designers," said E  , coordinator, KTB.
 
 Explaining the concept, another KTB coordinator   said: "The concept of time bank is simple. For example, if someone is an illustrator and I want him to make an illustration for me, we will first meet and agree that the project would take up three hours of his time. When he completes his work, three hours will be credited to his time bank and three hours will be deducted from mine. Later on he can 'spend' his time when he wants to avail some other service," said KK Jayan, coordinator of KTB. 
 
 "Eagerness to share and help is very important. Members can avail services even if they don't have any credit to offer," he added. 
 
  "It is a wonderful idea, as long as the system works on the basis of moral obligation," said  , secretary, Cochin Chamber of Commerce.
 
 However, not everyone has been entirely optimistic about the concept. Martin Patrick, chief economist,   said, "Commodifying time could have social and cultural impacts. The idea is radically new to the city. On the face of it, it seems to be a positive concept but when you commodify time then people who now spend time with their family and friends out of good will would reconsider using their time as an opportunity to get objective benefits."
 
