Panaji: He was the last player to run on to the field.
 
  When all of his teammates were in the centre, waiting for coach Luis Norton de Matos to begin his team talk on Friday morning,   Danu was held back in the dressing room. Perhaps, he didn’t feel up to it. Perhaps, for the first time, he might have felt a bit out of place.
  
  The youngest of 27 Indian probables fighting for a place in the final squad of 21, and the last to join the squad – he joined less than three months ago –   was on the verge of almost miraculously breaking into the Indian squad, until an ankle injury during training in Bengaluru earlier this month wrecked his dream.
  
  The ankle injury kept him out for three weeks, and although he had started to train with the team, the Portuguese coach didn’t want to take a risk.
  
  “I am not disappointed. I just want the Indian team to do well at the World Cup,” said Danu, who has been asked to continue his rehabilitation with the Indian team.
  
  Since July, the Under-16 India captain kept believing he had fought his way into the Indian team. The Portuguese coach had all along maintained that the doors of the Indian team are always open to the talented ones and Danu was the last to slip in.
  
  “I thought I was lucky to get this chance to be part of the Indian team,” Danu told TOI a few hours before Luis announced the final 21, after dinner at the team hotel on Thursday.
  
  Danu indeed was lucky. It’s rare for a player to be handpicked just three months before the World Cup kicks off, and even rarer for him to be the youngest. He turned 15 only last month, while a majority of the players – except six – are all 17. Players born on or after 1.1.2000 are eligible.
  
  Hailing from Bageshwar in Uttarakhand, Danu was the undisputed star of the India under-16 team, scoring goals at will. Even at the international level – like in Egypt for instance – he scored in every match and caught the India U-17 coach’s eye during a friendly.
  
  The India coach was so impressed with his ability to weave past one defender after another that he immediately asked him to join the Indian probables. It looked like a dream would come true but sometimes, some things are just not meant to be 
