KOLKATA: When Rudra Kishore Sen, a Delhi-based executive of a global MNC, commented on the improved   situation during a visit to Kolkata recently, his brother, Roop Kishore, who lives in the city and works in the  , wondered why he felt that way because the traffic still crawled during peak office hours.

 It may be difficult for residents to perceive, but the ave-rage traffic speed in Kolkata has gone up by 19% in the past year. That is what an analysis of data from over 50 million cab commutes in Kolkata split over 2015 and 2016 has revealed. 
 
 According to app cab agg-regator Ola, that has an estimated 9,000-plus GPS-enabled cabs plying in the city and clocks 25 million-plus commutes annually, the average speed of traffic in the city has gone up from 17kmph to 20.2kmph, a 19% rise. That means, commute time in 2016 has reduced by a fifth since the previous year. A distance that used to take an hour to reach in 2015 is now possible in 48 minutes. 
 
 Traffic in Kolkata, by pol-ice commissioner Rajiv Kumar’s own admission, is still among the slowest as far as Indian metros go. But he is glad that an independent analysis has revealed a significant improvement. “The study is enc-ouraging because it shows that efforts on the part of Kolkata traffic police as well as enabling factors like improvement in infrastructure is helping ease congestion and faster travel,” said Kumar.
 
 The Maa flyover has had a dramatic impact on commute time for Ruby, Garia, Salt Lake, Lake Town and Baguiati-bound traffic from the central business district, Nabanna and parts of south and south-west Kolkata. Travellers on this route can now do the 10.5km from Race Course to EM Bypass in a shade over 7 minutes, down from 35-60 min-utes in 2015. 
 
 When the Park Circus-bound flank of Maa flyover gets linked to the Race-Course bound flank of AJC Bose Road flyover later this year, it will do the same to traffic flow from EM Bypass to city centre.
 
 While new infrastructure does speed up traffic, key interventions by Kolkata Police in the city’s traffic management has also chipped away commute time in roads across the city. The most significant one has been changing the signalling system from localized control to interlinked that allows it to be operated central control room. 
 
 "Localized control enabled the policeman posted at a particular intersection to regulate the signal according to the traffic volume that arrives at the crossing. But he has no awareness of the situation at the earlier crossing or the next one. Also, two sergeants — one controlling east-west traffic and another north-south traffic — may both radio the signal controller to turn the signal green. The policeman then acts on his discretion. We have worked with Siemens to replace manual controllers at nearly 200 intersections and installed ones that allow central control but has a manual over-ride. Based on analyzing the traffic volume data on the particular stretch, cycle time for traffic lights have been incorporated. The maximum wait at about 10 high vehicle density crossing like MG Road-Central Avenue; DL Khan Road-AJC Bose Road; Ballygunge Circular Road-Gariahat Road and Rashbehari Avenue-Ashutosh Mukherjee Road is 180 seconds. But in most of the others, the optimum time cycle is 90-120 seconds. This is during the office rush hour in morning and evening. At other times of the day and night, it is differently calibrated, again according to traffic data," said additional commissioner Vineet Goyal.
 
 The centralized control allows officers at the control room who have an awareness of traffic in the entire area to make changes if required and provide green channel in directions where traffic flow is heavy. It has also solved a vexed problem of mismatch in time at different intersections when difference of a few seconds can cause a bottleneck. 
 
 Goel also cited another intervention: faster response time to accidents to not only attend to the victim but also rapidly clear the area. "We are not only monitoring the accident-prone Maa flyover centrally, policemen are posted on it to respond quickly. WBTC has also stationed a team of mechanics with us to swiftly attend to breakdowns," he said.
 
 Finally, Kolkata Police is putting in place systems to check accidents so that both life and time is saved. Speed guns with recorders like the one on Maa flyover will be installed in all major speedways like EM Bypass, Red Road, AJC Bose Flyover, Second Hooghly Bridge, Central Avenue and James Long Sarani in a week. Also, red light violation detection system will be installed in all major intersections to enable automatic prosecution.
 
 "More than increase in speed, we want to bring in predictability in the journey duration and keep it within a reasonable time without compromising on safety," explained Goyal. 
 
 
