LUDHIANA: One person died and six suffered injuries after a   rammed into five vehicles that had   at   on  .

 The speeding van hit two motorcycles, one rickshaw, one auto and a car. After the accident, the van driver fled the spot. Traffic police head constable Jasmail Singh, who was on duty at the chowk, rushed to the spot and called ambulance at 108. But as the ambulance didn’t come, the five seriously injured were taken to a nearby private hospital in two autos, while a commuter took the injured woman to civil hospital.
 
 The deceased, Sachin Kumar, 30, of Jalandhar, worked with an overseas shipping company at Dhandri. He was on his motorcycle when the auto hit him. The injured have been identified as Kesar Pal of Giaspura, a rickshaw-puller; Kamlesh Kumar, rickshaw passenger; biker Ram Singh of Moti Nagar and his wife Reeta; auto driver Lakhwinder Singh and Ashok Kumar of Haibowal, who was in his auto. The car driver escaped unhurt. 
 
 Ram Singh was going home after picking up his wife from railway station when the crash took place.
 
 While Kesar Pal, Ashok Kumar and Lakhwinder Singh received minor injuries, Kamlesh Kumar, Ram Singh and Reeta suffered fractures. Their condition is stated to be stable.
 
 Auto driver Lakhwinder Singh, who was going to Focal Point with passenger Ashok Kumar, said, “I stopped at the red light and suddenly a pick-up van hit my vehicle from the rear. I saw my passenger fall out. I was semi-conscious and could not understand what happened.”
 
 Head constable Jasmail Singh said, “I called ambulance at 108. But seeing the condition of the injured, I decided to take them to hospital without delay. I stopped two autos, put the injured inside and took them to the nearby private hospital.”
 
 After admitting five persons to hospital, Jasmail returned to check the injured woman, who was taken by a commuter to the civil hospital.
 
 A crane was called to remove the mangled remains of vehicles. Division number two police scanned the footage of CCTV cameras installed at nearby shops. One of the CCTV cameras has captured the accident and also the accused driver fleeing the spot.
 
 ASI Kapil Sharma said Sachin succumbed to injuries during treatment in hospital. Ashok Kumar and Kesar Pal were discharged after first-aid.
 
 The police have registered an FIR against the unidentified driver under sections 279 (rash driving), 304-A (causing death by negligence) and 427 (mischief causing damage) of the IPC. Raids are being conducted to arrest the accused.
 
 
