ROHTAK: The   (AIJASS) on Friday announced that it will not participate in the peace talks with the state government. Staging a sit-in,   and withdrawal criminal cases against the community members, for past 24 days, AIJASS has held two rounds of talks with the state government panel headed by   so far.

 Accusing the government of taking a partisan approach in a press conference in Rohtak on Friday, AIJASS chief Yashpal Malik said that the committee was nothing but a sham. Handing out a detailed press release containing 17 points, Malik said on one side the government was quick to book persons belonging to the Jat community for the violence in February 2016, on the other it did not act against its own leaders.
 
 “The new four-member committee is to have no powers to take any decision. Under such circumstances, we reject the formation of the committee and will not go for any dialogue with the government,” he said vowing to intensify the stir.
 
 Following talks with Jat leaders on February 20, a five-member panel of Haryana chief secretary D S Dhesi had decided to constitute a four-member committee to resolve various issues, including withdrawal of criminal cases, lodged against Jats during the stir last year.
 
 The proposed panel was to have two members each from Jats and the government, but Malik decided to back out of the talks for its formation saying the government was discriminating against them.
 
 “One year has gone by, there has been no action against BJP MP Raj Kumar Saini and Roshan Lal Arya for promoting enmity between sections of the society. Rohtak MLA Munish Grover, who engineered the violence in February 2016, was elevated as a cabinet minister,” Malik alleged.
 
 He said there was CBI probe in the arson cases at Haryana finance minister Captain Abhimanyu’s house and other properties, while those who torched residences of independent MLA Jasbir Deswal, former Congress MLA Geeta Bhukkal and ex-MLA Jagbir Malik were roaming free.
 
 Malik claimed that several statues of Jat leaders were vandalized on the direction of Other Backward Classes (OBC) Brigade leaders Saini, Rajinder Tanwar and others. He alleged despite bringing evidence on record, there was no action against them.
 
 On the demand of withdrawal of murder and attempt to murder cases against Jat protesters, Malik said that they were ready to not raise this demand provided government acted against its own party leaders and cadres who had complaints registered against them under same charges.
 
 “We were not rigid during the two rounds of talks but the committee came unprepared and lacked any power to accept or reject any demand,” he said justifying the decision to walk away from the talks.
 
 “We will now bring the central government to its knees during March 2 protest in which protesters from Delhi and Uttar Pradesh would also throng the national capital,” he claimed. He predicted defeat for BJP in the UP elections due to saffron party’s stand against the Jats.
 
 
 
 AIJASS chief Yashpal Malik and members of the body tendered unconditional apology to media for the unruly behaviour by protesters at sit-in at Jassia recently. “It would not be repeated,” Malik said.
 
