When growing up,   wanted to establish his name in the industry as a filmmaker. But little did he know that he would be writing songs, something that came naturally to him. He came into the industry quite recently, but this young lad has already been churning hits after another, what with numbers like En Pulse Yethitu Poriye, Vaaya En Veera and so on. He says he can write songs in a span of 15 minutes and loves listening to gaana songs. “When I feel low, I listen to Deva and his songs magically pull me out of low phase,” he smiles. Amid researching for Nachiyar Thirumozhi and working on a few interesting projects like Gulebagavali, Veera and Yaar, this song-writer (he says lyricist is a serious word) talks to us about his inspiration and more…
 
 
 Just like a lot of people in the industry, mine, too, was an accident. Sometimes, you plan for something and end up being something else. This was more like that. I am a huge fan of Ilaiyaraaja and loved listening to Tamil songs. Around that time was when I was hugely inspired by Kavignar Vaali. What I am to Vaali is what Eklavya was to Dronacharya (smiles). I’ve met him when I was young and he had even given a couple of books to me. If I am writing a song or poetry today, it is because him. In fact, I draw a lot of inspiration from him and Rumi — two bearded poets. Dwelling in music to write lyrics is in itself a spiritual experience because you forget the world and spend blissful minutes interacting with sublime musical notes. That way, I could even saying writing a kuthu song is a spiritual experience. When you see from a cosmic angle, it has no genres, no interpretations. As a listener, if I don’t feel for my song, then there’s something wrong. That’s the reason I keep my lyrics simple. I want to say profound things in a simple way so that people can feel close to my lyrics.
 
 
 I was about 19 when I wrote my first song. Composer Karthikeya Murthy (of Moone Moonu Varthai fame) was doing a song for a tele-serial. I went to his home around the time he was composing. He had a deadline to meet and pulled me into this by quickly asking me to write a song in Tamil. I was apprehensive initially as I hadn’t written in Tamil then. But he convinced saying it would just be dummy lyrics as the production had already finalised a lyricist. The producer of the serial was impressed with my work and went ahead with the same lyrics. Later, we started jamming together. It was during this process that I realised I am a songwriter. We worked together in Moone Moonu Varthai, too. Later, I bumped into  , who was my school junior. We had gone out of touch and were casually asking what we were up to. He was looking at opportunities to turn a composer and I looked for work as a lyricist. We casually jammed the same night, which gave birth to Vaaya En Veera. It was after he uploaded on YouTube with Shakthisree Gopalan’s voice that Lawrence had heard the song and included it in   2. The song was received well and that’s when I realised I could do something.
 
 
 More than realising those were hits, I felt I was doing things right. The hits gave confidence to my family, so, in that way, those songs worked for me. Also, when people recognise your song, it is easy to look for opportunities. Doesn’t it? But I owe a lot to Leon for trusting me with his songs and instilling confidence in me every time I go through phases of self-doubt.
 
 
 Yes, someone recommended my name to   sir and we collaborated for Yeman first. He was also working on Saithan simultaneously. They had released a song, which got into trouble with Hindu outfits as it had a few lines that didn’t go down well with them. Vijay sir had tweeted saying he has pulled down the song and the new version would be released on the following day. I was following the tweets and in the next 15 minutes, I get a call from him asking me to come to his studio. It was then that I realised he called me write the lyrics for the song that got into trouble. This title song was special because until that time I had written lyrics that had more of conversational Tamil. This one required the lines to transport the audience to an older era and was on the lines of Kalingathuparani. Though it is difficult to comprehend, the song needed these lyrics to suit the theme of the film. I find my calling in writing in Sanga Thamizh nadai. One day, I want to be able to write meaningful venbas.
 
 
 I think it’s relatively easy to write poetry than penning down a song for a certain tune. When you write a song, it is not about writing whatever comes to your mind, it is about understanding music, the composer and the director’s vision. You are being trusted with someone else’s creation. And being a lyricist doesn’t mean that you can expect your writings to come out as it is. You are working with people who are creators themselves. A lyricist is a tool who adds importance to a song. It is an iterative work. I don’t insist that what I have written is final. There have been so many times when a director or composer comes to us for corrections. As a writer, you are only focusing on the song. But the director knows the bigger picture.
 
 
 Gone are days when we had only a few composers, lyricists and singers. Today, it has become a lot more open. There is a healthy competition among musicians and I feel it’s an exciting time to be a lyricist. I don’t think there is any reason why we should resist new talent. I also think opportunities will come your way if you are doing your job well. I don’t want to be known as someone who has written 1,000 songs. It is not quantity, but quality that I look for. If I have written 50 romantic songs, they should result in at least one person falling in love (laughs). I am just glad that I could be a part of Tamil cinema, which is in a great space right now.
 
 
