CHANDIGARH: If you have not been cycling of late, the coming winter may just be the right time to sport your cycling shorts.Come December, cycling tracks will cover the entire length and breadth of Chandigarh and, in the process, the city will become “100% cyclist friendly“, claims   chief engineer  .

 The engineering wing of the Chandigarh administration has started the first phase of its project to lay 90 km of new cycling tracks for covering the entire city.
 
 Apart from the cycle tracks, the administration is also planning to have cycling tracks on the 36 traffic junctions, including roundabouts and traffic signals, to ensure cyclists don't face any hindrances at these busy spots. Chandigarh has around 82 km of c yc l i n g t r a c k s .
 
 H ow e ve r, t h e s e stretches are not connected at roundabouts and cyclists have to go back on to the main road at traffic signals and roundabouts. At places, cycling tracks end abruptly, without a warning or diversion. Once the new 90km of tracks are laid, the city will have cycling tracks measuring 172 kilometre.“The entire project will cost around Rs 25cr. In the first phase of the project, we are spending Rs 12 crore of this amount. We hope to finish the project before December.With this project, we will be able to connect the entire city with cycling tracks,“ said  .
 
 The laying of new cycling tracks is part of works to be carried out in Chandigarh under the Centre's `Smart City Project'. The new cycling tracks will be constructed on Madhya Marg, Jan Marg, Vikas Path, and Purv Marg.
 
 Sources in the Chandigarh engineering department said there were some parts of the existing 82km of cycling tracks which required repairs and maintenance.“There are some patches in the existing tracks which we have covered in the current project. These all will be repaired too. There won't be any need to spend additional money on them later on,“ said an official involved in the project, but who did not wish to be named.
 
 The Chandigarh administration went ahead with connecting cycling tracks at junctions after it constructed one at the Sector 26-27 roundabout and it ended up being successful.
 
