PATNA: Concerns over potable water scarcity must have marked the   in many parts of the world on Wednesday, but   should feel proud that the water under their ground is so pure that they don’t need a purifier to make them potable.

 “You bore up to 270ft deep under the ground to get your water. It is perfectly fit for consumption,” environmentalist Ashok Ghosh said on Wednesday, adding the water available up to 50ft under the ground has bacteriological contamination, but even the middle aquifer up to 150ft is free of harmful substance.
 
 Taru Mitra’s Father Robert Athickal nodded. “We recently collected water samples from different Patna localities, including Ashiana Nagar, Pataliputra Colony and  , tested them and did not find any contamination.
 
 “Patnaites should first check the quality of water available to them before investing on water purifiers. Maybe, residents of many localities will not need to purify their water before consuming it,” said the Father, a well-known environmental activist.
 
 Ghosh cites an empirical evidence in this regard. “I have got my residence’s water pipes bored up to 300ft, and my family consumes the water directly,” he said and pointed out the water in Patna has proper balance of necessary elements present in it. 
 
 According to Ghosh, ground water is naturally treated and has proper balance of calcium, magnesium and other minerals. This balance gets disturbed if the water is treated chemically.
 
 “Though traces of harmful elements like arsenic have not been found in the water in the main city, Patna’s peripheries like Maner, Danapur, Bihta, Bakhtiarpur and Barh have arsenic content in water that needs to be treated before consumption,” said Ghosh, a retired professor of A N College in Patna.
 
 Doctors, however, warn against careless use of tap water for drinking purposes. “This water supplied by government agencies is dirty and yellow in colour in some localities. Not that the underground water in these localities is of poor quality. Instead, the pipes through which government agencies supply water are quite old and have leakages because of which drain water mixes up with the drinking water,” a gastroenterologist said and added this was a major causal factor behind water-borne diseases.
 
 Talking about this year’s World Water Day theme, Why Waste Water, Ghosh rued at least 40% of the water was wasted during the process of supply.
 
 
