BHOPAL: In a bid to politicise, state   on Monday alleged that four Bhil tribal women were gangraped by policemen in a remote village in Dhar district during a raid conducted on the morning hours of January 26. Congress claimed that a company of 125 policemen headed by two additional SPs ransacked Tamlabutiya tribal village, raped four women including wife of the sarpanch and molested more than a dozen teenaged girls. The village situated 50 km from Dhar town has a population of 1000 people and is spread over three kms in the Gandhwani assembly constituency area.

 Police however vehemently denied the incident of rape and molestation. “It is a village that survives on crime,” said SP Dhar district Virendra Singh. “There are 92 permanent arrest warrants against residents of that village. Cases of dacoity, robbery and loot are registered against 143 people. Police force went to arrest the accused. The incident as they claim is not correct. Women of the village could not have been raped when there were ten women police personnel present including an SDOP and an inspector.”
 
 Congress’ MLA from Gandhwani seat Umang Singhar called a press conference on Monday afternoon at the state PCC office and brought some of the women victims to tell their stories.
 
 Contradicting the state police numbers, Congress said that there are only 22 people in the village who are involved in criminal activities and are in jail while one is dead. The party leaders said there are only 38 cases registered against the accused.
 
 Speaking to reporters, Singhar said, “At 6 am last Thursday, a large company of police personnel swooped on the village. Police fired shots and also tear gas shells. The men of the village fled into the hilly forest area after which police ransacked the village at random breaking utensils, stealing cash, destroying grains, smashing beer bottles and molesting young women. Intoxicated policemen raped four women in the village.”
 
 Singhar claimed that police looted the homes of tribals, took away 11 motorbikes and two tractors which belonged to the villagers. According to state Congress leaders, the incident occurred between 6 am and 12 noon. Locals informed Singhar and he reached the spot around 5:30 pm.
 
 “Tanda police station refused to register an FIR against the rouge police,” Singhar alleged. Virendra Singh, SP however told TOI that an FIR has been registered on Sunday.
 
 State Commisison for women: 
 
 Bhopal: About 6 tribal women, from Tanda village of Dhar District alleging sexual assault by police men in the area, on the name of arresting few criminals reached State women commission to demand justice. However, as the chairperson Lata Wankhede was not present at the commission, they submitted their memorandum for inquiry and action on policemen to Usha Solanki member secretary, state women commission.
 
 In their memorandum to the commission they said, “Policemen barged into our house and broke all the household things and looted the cash on the name of arresting few unknown criminals. Also to terrorise those tribal people in the village police fired several shots and blew tear gas.”
 
 Adding on the memorandum said, “The list that police shown to the villagers, four of them are already in jail, one has died. They have been charged for motor cycle loot and other thefts etc.”
 
 They also claimed that, women are still under terror, as some of the police personnel stayed there, drank beer in farms and created nuisance in the area. Instead registered the case against Sarpanch of the village.”
 
 The demands included immediate FIR, high level committee for inquiry, suspension of police personnel involved, and compensation for those who have become the victim of vandalism.
 
 
