VADODARA: The news of arrest of Professor  , the dean of M S University’s famed  , sent shock waves across the campus on Sunday.

 Choondawat, who was enjoying second term as faculty’s dean and was on verge of retirement, was arrested by the Anti-Corruption Sleuths in Jodhpur on Saturday. This is the first instance when a sitting dean of MSU has been arrested.
 
 ACB Jodhpur arrested Choondawat in connection with a teachers’ recruitment scam that had surfaced at Jodhpur-based Jai Narayan Vyas University around four years back. Choondawat was invited as an external subject expert in the selection committee for appointing assistant professors in sociology department of JNVU in 2012.
 
 ACB officials said that the university was to appoint 154 teachers on different posts of professors, associate professors and assistant professors at the university. Those who were not considered for the posts had objected to appointments and had said that the appointments were in violation of the norms of the University Grants Commission (UGC).
 
 The protesting candidates had formed a group and filed several RTI applications which had revealed that candidates, who did not complete their PhD, post-graduation and had submitted post-dated documents were also appointed by the university’s top brass.
 
 “We had called Choondawat for questioning in connection with the scam because we had evidences against him. When we asked him about those evidences, he could not give any satisfactory reply which proved his role in the scam and we arrested him,” Ajaypal Lamba, superintendent of ACB, Jodhpur, told TOI over phone.
 
 He added that the panel in which Choondawat was a member selected three ineligible candidates even though eligible candidates had applied for the same posts.
 
 “Choondawat was introduced to the candidates before the interviews were held and he was also told to ask specific questions to them during the interview which he did,” said Lamba.
 
 The cops are yet to ascertain whether money was paid to Choondawat for selection of the three candidates who are presently absconding. 
 
 The ACB has identified that the appointments of 30 candidates were in violation of UGC norms. Earlier this month, the cops had arrested former vice chancellor of JNVU B S Rajpurohit, former MLA from Jodhpur and Congress leader Jugal Kabra, suspended professor of JNVU Dungar Singh Khimchi, former professor of JNVU A S Sharma and former professor of Sukhadia University Dariyav Singh Chundavat. Rajpurohit has been released on bail by the Supreme Court.
 
 Choondawat, 62, was due to retire in the second half of this year. He has also served as chief warden of the Halls of Residence (hostels) on two occasions and similarly he had served as vice dean of the faculty twice.
 
 A professor in sociology, Choondawat, is also the officiating head of MSU’s Department of Sociology and has served as member of the National Assessment and Accreditation Council committees during several occasions in the past. He has also retained the post of foreign students advisor since over a decade.
 
 A Kshatriya from Udaipur, Choondawat who had Congress leanings, also enjoys good contacts with Rajasthan’s BJP unit. Sources said that he was also aspiring to become vice-chancellor of one of the universities in the neighbouring state. 
 
 MSU vice chancellor, Parimal Vyas, who is on leave, said he is shocked by the news. “Usually, many of us go as experts in several universities and panels. In my entire career, I have not come across such a case. However, we are verifying all the details,” said Vyas.
 
 
