BENGALURU: There is a joke about a child being dropped home by random people after seeing a WhatsApp forward of a `missing kid' featuring the girl, long after she was reunited with her family.

 Taking note of such posts and other blind forwards, two techies -- Bal Krishn Birla and Shammas Oliyath ­ embarked on a mission to bust false information shared via WhatsApp and Facebook.
 
 In 2015, Shammas relied heavily on   to stay updated with current affairs. "But I realised how fake news was finding its way in,” says Shammas, adding: “Deciding against buying such posts at face value, I started doing background checks."
 
 Besides sharing his findings, Shammas started an informal website. After Birla joined him in mid-2016, the website,  , took off big time.
 
 Shammas recalls the post of a man seeking moral support donations for his daughter's operation. “Unfortunately, the kid didn't survive after surgery . But the man was bombarded with calls for long,” he said, adding that people continued to transfer money to his account, much to his embarrassment.
 
 Today , people send 200 forwards to the duo daily , seeking to check their veracity . The links are either sent to C4S site or WhatsApped to 9035067726.
 
 “We prioritize them depending on their gravity and social impact. We consider multiple requests on a common topic,“ says Birla. According to the nature of the posts, they are classified as `Medical', `Govt Initiatives', `Accidents', `Missing', `Internet Rumours', `Promotions'.
 
 The duo is helped by six volunteers who do research which are juxtaposed against the original post on C4S. So far, over 300 false claims have been busted. They include posts on a whistleblower jawan claimed to have been ‘found dead' (even though he is hale and hearty), and a woman delivering 11 babies (a photo collage of an African woman and 11 babies at an IVF centre in Surat).
 
 Categorizing the nature of posts, Birla says the `ideological' ones pertain to political and linguistic issues. “Financial ones are those links which take people to websites for money or personal information. Their tools are apps or malware,“ he cautions.
 
 The third, 'nuisance', is created by people who want to spread false news. “A quick online search is enough to know if they are fake or real,“ the duo says.
 
 The team wants to scale up its ops with automation to handle the deluge of requests or create an app and plugins to help users identify fake posts on their newsfeeds. “We want these tools operational by this year-end,“ says Shammas, adding that they are planning to have student interns for this.
 
