GURUGRAM: The probe into   scheme has revealed that  , the Gurgaon-based company that allegedly offered its investors returns for “liking online pages”, operated 10 more bank accounts. 

 Police said most bank accounts of the company had no funds. As part of the investigation, a police team on Tuesday visited many banks in the city, examined fund details of the firm and are taking steps to freeze these accounts. Cops had seized three accounts of the company on February 16.
 
 While the company has three accounts in Axis bank — in Gurgaon, Surat and Jaipur branches — three other accounts are with ICICI Bank in Gurgaon. The remaining accounts are in the   branches of IDFC and Kotak Mahindra, police said.
 
 The directors were running the business in the name of Profit Network, though the registered name of the company is different.
 
 The preliminary police probe had revealed a big fraud behind the scheme. Firstly, the actual name of the company is  , which was registered in September 2016 at the address SF-35, Omaxe Celebration Mall in Sector 48 on Sohna road, Gurgaon. 
 
 Secondly, though the scheme was being run in the name of Profit Network, all money deposits by investors in the three accounts, which were seized earlier, were in the name of Medicom.
 
 Four people, including the directors and manager of Profit Network, were arrested on Sunday for their alleged role in the scam. Police said the accused duped 4,866 investors of Rs 8 crore, and were planning to flee abroad when nabbed.
 
 The accused have been identified as Medicom directors Jaipur-based Daulat Singh Shekhawat (32) and Alwar resident Bharat Kumar (27). Their manager Rajkumar Sharma and partner Ajay were also arrested.
 
 The accused, who are on a six-day police remand, reportedly confessed that they duped around 5,000 people on the pretext of promising quick and lucrative returns to investors for clicking ‘likes’ on designated links on social media.
 
 The police investigation revealed that the company sent fake links to investors. “A Jaipur-based web designer designed the company’s website. We are interrogating the accused. We hope that more details of many other bank accounts will be revealed. We are tracking other accused also,” said inspector Anand Yadav, who is investigating the case.
 
