NEW DELHI: While clear mandate in 2017 appears to be a continuation of a trend to install a majority government that started in 2007, the reason why the previous two options (BSP in 2007 and   in 2012) have been rejected are based on the previous two experiences of the electorate.
 
  In 2007, a large section of the UP electorate jettisoned its old trenches and voted for the BSP to vent its frustration against the alleged lawless regime of  .
  
  Likewise, in 2012, a large section of the UP electorate set aside their old political   to vote for the SP to express their anger against the alleged rampant corruption under the   regime. Those who travelled on the ground would vouch that both the mandates — 2007 and 2012 — were mandates of revenge.
  
  A large section of the electorate broke away from their traditional tents — first, in 2007, hoping that Mayawati will teach SP a lesson, and then, in 2012, that SP will do the same to BSP. The sentiment to teach a lesson to the incumbents in 2007 and 2012 fetched the victor popular support beyond their traditional support base (Dalits for BSP and Muslim-Yadav for SP). But, the electorate felt cheated the way the new governments came to be identified with their traditional support bases.
  
  First, Mayawati government came to be identified as a government unfairly favourable towards the Dalits (ostensible because of alleged excesses in implementation of Dalit atrocities Act). Second, Akhilesh government became increasingly identified as a government favourably disposed towards the Muslim-Yadavs (ostensibly for being pro-active on minority issues).
  
  While these popular reasons fuelling these perceptions may have been blown out of proportion, this sentiment among those who voted beyond vote bank considerations needed redress that not only their governments were fair but also should have been seen to be fair.
  
  Unfortunately, both BSP and SP governments not only appeared oblivious to these perceptions but also appeared doing little to correct this impression by following the golden dictum — ‘not only must justice be done; it must also be seen to be done’.
 
  Consequently, these perceptions persisted and the electorate sounded their disapproval in less than two years’ time in 2009 and 2014 Lok Sabha elections. Though these floater votes put their hopes in Akhilesh in 2012 after their disappointment with Mayawati, they had nowhere to go once they felt disappointed by the SP regime too. Modi, with an impression of a decisive leader, offered them a new hope to teach both SP and BSP a lesson in 2014.
  
  This was a backlash against identity politics of the two main players of UP politics. It was reflected in the vote   of SP and BSP in 2014.
  
  Their vote shares —BSP (19.77%) and SP (22.35%) — mirrored the population proportion of their core votes — Dalits and Muslim-Yadavs, respectively. All the rest appeared to have deserted their previous tents and moved towards Modi.
  
  In 2017, too, the votes garnered by BSP (22.2%) and SP-Congress (28%) virtually mirrored their traditional core support base, Dalits and Muslim-Yadavs respectively, again.
  
  It looks slightly better than 2014 as some from their core votes that had slipped under Modi wave returned, but not the other non-Dalit non-Yadav/Muslims. Frustrated that their old Mandal tents (SP or BSP) have increasingly become the fiefdom of the leading communities (Dalits and Yadavs) of their tent, majority of non-Dalit and non-Yadav/Muslim communities shifted to a new tent (BJP) in 2014.
  
  This shift was visible as Modi wave in the form of euphoria among this non-Dalit, non-Yadavs who wanted their shift loudly registered in 2014. Once in the new tent (BJP), it was   as usual for them in 2017. These communities need not sound euphoric in 2017 that made many believed that BJP lacked the buzz of 2014.
  
  But, both these champions of identity politics — BSP and SP —thought 2014 was an aberration and these communities will return to their original tents.
  
  Their complacence was reflected in neither Akhilesh nor Mayawati making any overt gesture to allay the apprehensions of these communities to woo them back. Neither did Akhilesh’s generic #KamBoltaHai address the apprehensions of those who had deserted SP in 2014 nor did Mayawati’s emphasis on wooing Muslims help BSP’s need to woo them back.
  
  Both forgot that non-Yadav & non-Dalit communities had consciously drifted away from them in 2014 and they need to be pleaded with assurances to accommodate them with the dignity they deserved if they returned to their old tents.
  
  The BJP, in contrast, came out of its comfort zone and gave them representation to tap into the simmering identity backlash against “kuchh ka saath, kuchh ka vikas” by SP and BSP in 2017.
