NEW DELHI: Residents in the capital had looked forward to a high standard of public hygiene, among them clean, odourless public toilets, after the municipal corporations announced new initiatives. But the much anticipated projects have, as usual, come to naught. 

 Ahead of the 2010 Commonwealth Games in Delhi, the single-body   had indeed constructed 600 waterless urinals in places such as ITO, Kashmere Gate, New Delhi and Old Delhi railway stations, Mukherjee Nagar, Hauz Khas and Lajpat Nagar. But the climate proved unconducive to the concept. The municipalities are keen to hand them over to private parties for use as conventional toilets, but in the meantime, they lie neglected and unused. 
 
 Alongside these, eight high-end, two-floor toilets with cafes on the upper level were also commissioned. From almost immediately after their construction, the project has remained mired in litigation. In both the cases, the task of selling advertisement space was outsourced to private firms, but like every initiative this too came a cropper.
 
 In this dismal situation, the South Delhi Municipal Corporation launched a mobile application called Third Eye in 2014 for filing complaints. But citing technical glitches, the civic body discontinued the app soon after. Delhi government similarly launched the   app in November 2015, only to have it follow Third Eye into oblivion.
 
 A senior government official claimed the Swachh Delhi app failed because it required the involvement of the three municipal corporations in tackling public mess. But the civic bodies refute this. “The government is trying to hide its failure by blaming the three corporations,” charged Subhash Arya, leader of the House in the south corporation. “We supported the government and addressed all its concerns.”
 
 Caught in this blame game, citizens have struggled to have their grievances looked at. “I have no option but to write letters to the authorities,” said BM Bakshi, RWA president of New Friends Colony. “The helpline numbers are useful for registering complaints, but officials seldom act after that.” 
 
 The situation is frustrating too for Chetan Sharma, chairman of the Federation of GKII RWAs. He said that unless you personally knew the area councillor or MLA, registering a complaint was well-nigh impossible. 
 
 Arya retorted that the six   officials deployed to listen to grouses had little work because there weren’t many complainants visiting the corporation offices. SDMC can at least claim to have some people assigned to look into this civic problem. Residents in other wards do not even know whom to turn to for the redressal of their hardships. 
 
 
