They were in town recently for their play, August: Osage County. And mother-daughter duo Lillete and Ira Dubey was as candid as it could get while speaking to CT about Ira’s stardom, working with  , theatre and lots more. Excerpts:
 
  
 
  
  Ira: Yes, kind of (laughs). It was the first time I worked with   and in a Shah Rukh Khan production.  , I think, is the biggest star of this generation — so it’s lovely to be in a film with her. Moreover, the film has got a lot of positive feedback.
  
  
 
  
  Lillete: I’ve always felt Ira is a very natural and spontaneous actress. Being natural is the most important quality of an actor. And I think she held her own in the role she had. I enjoyed the movie very much. Any young person can relate to the relationship issues addressed by the film. By choosing a young protagonist (Alia), who is going through relationship issues, Gauri (Shinde) made a film that a large number of people can relate to. So, in the film, I liked Alia, Ira and the whole concept of the film.
  
  
 
  
  L: Yes, but Shah Rukh is almost a decade younger than me. But he worked with me in TAG — Theatre Action Group — Barry’s group. I think we did two plays together.
  
  
 
  
  I: I used to tell Gauri (Shinde), ‘Why haven’t you put us in a scene together?’ On the last day of his schedule, SRK did something amazing. We weren’t there, but there were a lot of production people. He gave them small gifts with personal notes on them. I think that was wonderful!
  I: And when I actually met him and hung out with him, he spoke very highly of mom. He said ‘she taught me everything I know about acting…’
  L: He is known to be hyperbolic (laughs).
  I: But it was very sweet of him (laughs). He’s very warm, down to earth and charismatic. He is the kind of person whose aura is present even when
  he’s not on set. Hopefully, I’ll be sharing the screen with him in the next
  film (laughs).
  
  
 
  I: Whoever is listening out there, make it happen (laughs).
  L: He’s extremely hardworking and has enormous energy. He’s always high on at least 100 energy drinks. He was determined to be a superstar. When I’d asked if he wanted to be an actor, he used to say, ‘No, I want to be a superstar’.
  He’s also very kind and has a very enduring personality.
  
  
 
  I: I am planning to direct a play. I was excited last year about a play, The Flick, by young American playwright Annie Baker. I wanted to adapt it to the Indian context. But that’s on hold at the moment because of rights issues. Besides directing and writing films, writing plays are also on the cards.
  
  
 
  I: Yes, of course. I discuss everything with her.
  L: I know everything that she wants me to know (laughs).
  I: That’s what you say. When my sister (Neha) and I were growing up, my mom and my dad used to give us a lot of freedom. They respected us a lot. The two things they were concerned about were our safety and well-being. That’s it. I was given a lot of freedom to become who I am.
  
  
 
  
  L: There are a couple of things I believe in that I’ve tried to inculcate in our kids. It will be hypocritical of me to bring up my girls and then get them married by 20 or 25. To me, being an individual, fulfilling your potential, and finding yourself are the most important things in life. Marriage is a part of what you do in your life — one of the many things that will hopefully enrich your life and add value to it. In the quest of finding yourself, you have to give a certain amount of independence to your kids.
  
  
 
  
  I: It’s always better to have someone close working in the same profession. It has its ups and downs, but working with mum is a very fulfilling thing. What matters to me most is that I constantly learn from her. She is a wonderful actor and director and every day, I get to learn something from her. So, her fame hasn’t affected me, but being in the same profession is the key and I cherish that the most. People will always compare me with her — saying, ‘Oh you are Lillete Dubey’s daughter’. I am waiting for the day when people will start saying ‘Oh, you are Ira Dubey’s mother’, to my mom (laughs). But on a serious note, I am very grateful to be able to work with my mother and I’ve done some of my finest works with her. As we were discussing, she is a very tough director and she is toughest on her daughters.
  
  L: When people say I’m a tough director, I take it as compliment. As a director, it’s your job to get the best out of the people working with you — be it your actors, the set guy, the stage guy or whoever is working with you. An actor doesn’t always know what he is capable of. It is the director’s job to get the best out of him. If you are a lazy director, you get smug and complacent.
  I: You slip into mediocrity.
  L: That’s why I don’t like television. I think it’s a medium of mediocrity. I did a few shows when they first started cable TV. I realised I can easily slip into below-average performances. No one will criticise you and say ‘wonderful, wonderful’, even when you know you were rubbish.
  
  
 
  
  L: I did Aparna’s (Sen) new film, Sonata. It’s based on Mahesh Eklunchwar’s play, which had three women in it — Shabana (Azmi), Aparna and I. The same thing is being done in two different mediums. In a play, you have to reach out to the last member of your audience. Now, if I have to communicate with the last man on the balcony, I can’t internalise things — I have to externalise it. In the case of cinema, I have to internalise that same feeling. The feelings are the same, but the difference is how you communicate with your audience. I started performing in movies after I crossed 40 and I realised I have to unlearn everything I learnt
  in my theatre life. I call myself ‘an
  accidental film actress’. Less is more
  in cinema.
  
  
 
  L: In Hindi cinema, not many actors are in the habit of giving cues to the co-actors unless it is a confrontational scene, except Mr (Amitabh) Bachchan. He says, ‘Of course, I’ll give you the lines’. In the West, however, every actor gives you cues — be it Judi Dench, Maggie Smith or Richard Gere. They will always give the lines. I remember, in The Best Exotic Marigold Hotel, Maggie Smith stood in the sun for four-and-a-half hours to give me a four-word, off-camera cue. I kept on saying, ‘Please go inside. It is so hot here.’ And she kept on saying, ‘It’s my job, darling.’ That’s
  the difference.
  
  
 
  
  I: It’s changing. The younger lot is way more professional.
  
  L: The actors here are very committed, but the attitude is a little different. The English series that I have done, Indian Summer, taught me that you have to be extremely real. Barry taught us that it shouldn’t look like acting. But in India, we believe in loud acting.
  
  I: Also, we have a certain political incorrectness in our industry. There’s a fair skin and age fixation in Bollywood. I’m not dissing it; I just don’t care. I’m 33 and I don’t hide my age, but many people do, we all know. But I’m a part of   and I accept it the way it is.
  
  
