BANTWAL (DAKSHINA KANNA DA): Tensions ran high in Dakshina Kannada's Bantwal after several people were injured and a few vehicles were damaged in stone throwing during the funeral procession of   on Saturday.

 Sharath, 28, who ran a laundry shop on BC Road, was brutally hacked by a group of men on the night of July 4 as he left his shop.
 
 During the five-hour procession under heavy   on Saturday, some miscreants threw stones near BC Road around noon, a few metres away from the spot where Sharath was attacked. Despite heavy police deployment in the area, the miscreants, hud dled in a residential building, started throwing soda bottles on people and vehicles passing the procession route.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Police, however, managed to bring the situation under control and arrested dozens of youths from different communities. According to Dakshina Kannada SP CH Sudheer Kumar, who is camping in Bantwal, 14 people were arrested till Saturday evening, and a case of rioting will be registered against them.
 
 While some right wing leaders pacified the angry youths, police resorted to lathicharge and lobbed tear gas shells to disperse the crowd. An injured had to be rushed to a nearby hospital. The procession commenced around 10am from the mortuary of a private medical college in the city, with a large number of mourners and cops in tow. Mangaluru City and Dakshina Kannada police deployed hundreds of cops along National Highway 75. Religious places and areas represented by minority community members were also heavily guarded.
 
 All shops and commercial establishments in Padil, Farangipet, BC Road and Melkar remained closed to avoid any untoward incident.
 
 Senior officers from Mangaluru City Police Comissionerate and Dakshina Kannada District Police monitored the situation along the procession route.
 
 Police commissioner TR Suresh said that additional police forces, including senior officers, from Shivamogga, Tumakuru, Kolar and Chikkamagaluru, was deputed to oversee security arrangements in the area.
 
 Around 1pm, the procession reached Sharath's native Sajipa village where a public condolence meeting was held at the nearby Bhajana mandir, attended by religious and political leaders in large numbers.
 
 Addressing the youths, Rajashekarananda Swamiji of Vajradehi Math, Gurpur, urged them to refrain from violence and condemned the attack on Sharath. “We have lost one Sharath but it should not continue,“ he said. Sharath's father Taniyappa Madivala, also an RSS member, was also present.
 
 In Bengaluru, chief minister Siddaramaiah said police have full powers to crackdown against those who incite communal violence. Reacting to the communal tension that has gripped the coastal district of Dakshina Kannada, the CM told reporters here: “Some vested interest groups are spreading communal hatred in run up to the upcoming assembly polls.Disrupting society's harmony for political reasons won't be tolerated. We know about people and communities fomenting trouble in the region. Police have been told to take strict action.“
 
 The CM blamed provocative speeches made by an RSS leader for communal tension in the coastal region. He, however, did not name him. “Innocent people are suffering because of the evil designs of a few communal leaders. I have ordered police to take stern action against anyone taking law into his hands irrespective of the community he belongs to,“ he said.
 
 
 
 The BJP lashed out against the state's Congress government for under playing attacks on RSS activists in the wake of the murder of Sharath Madivala on Friday.
 
 The BJP leaders alleged that more than 30 RSS activists and BJP workers have been murdered across Karnataka during the past four years of the Siddaramaiah government.
 
 “Sharath was attacked a few days ago but police failed to make any arrests. This points to the fact that law and order situation in the state has collapsed,“ said BJP state president BS Yeddyurappa. He alleged that Karnataka was going the Kerala way in respect of attacks on RSS activists.
 
 Recounting the recent incident where Dakshina Kannada district minister in-charge B Ramanath Rai told the SP to register cases against RSS leader Kalladka Prabhakar Bhat, Union statistics and programme implementation minister D V Sadananda Gowda said, “The minister himself is indulging in hate speeches and misusing police.“
 
 BJP state general secretary and MP Shobha Karandlaje said Rai and food and civil supplies minister UT Khader were responsible for the communal unrest in the region, and demanded an NIA probe into the killings of RSS activists. 
 
