DEHRADUN: Sixteen men including Delhi-based industrialist Samir Thapar were arrested by Uttarakhand police on New Year’s eve in the   area of Lansdowne in   on charges of trespassing in forest area and carrying liquor as well as rifles along with live cartridges without proper licences. A few packets of cooked and uncooked meat were also recovered from them, which police officials said had been sent for tests.
 
  Providing details of the arrests, Mukhtar Mohsin, senior superintendent of police (SSP), Pauri Garhwal, told TOI, “On Saturday, we got information that some anti-social elements had been spotted carrying weapons and wearing Army uniforms at the Kolhu Chaur forest guest house of the Lansdowne forest division and there was a possibility that they might hunt wild animals too. Accordingly, a team was constituted and sent to investigate the matter.”
  
  He added that when the police team reached the spot, they found a number of people at the guest house -- some staying in the rooms and others in tents pitched in the premises. On being asked to show proof of permission to stay in the guest house, the men produced a booking confirmation in the name of   which showed that three suites had been booked for December 31. However, they could not give a satisfactory explanation for the presence of additional people as well as the pitching of tents, the SSP said. “On checking one of the rooms, we found 171 liquor bottles of different brands. A box was recovered from another room which contained a .300 bore rifle along with 23 live cartridges and a telescope. One of the men   was also found to be in possession of a .375 bore rifle along with 15 live cartridges. A case was booked against Mohinder Singh under section 60 of the Excise Act for being in possession of illicit liquor and against Arif Hussain under sections 25/30 of the Arms Act for flouting licence regulations.”
  
  The SSP added that “all the men have been booked under relevant clauses of Section 26 of the Indian Forest Act for trespassing on forest land and eight of their vehicles which were used for trespassing have been seized.”
  
  When queried about the matter,  , principal chief conservator of forests, Uttarakhand, said that he had asked the the chief conservator of forests to set up an enquiry into the matter. “If the people involved are found guilty, the forest department will also initiate action against them.”
