NEW DELHI: No sane person would continue to occupy houses that have frightening cracks, some as wide as a palm, across the walls. But some residents of   village in Narela have been forced to risk everything living in the dilapidated structures because no help has come from the government after an initial flurry in October last year when the houses on an elevated portion there mysteriously developed cracks. 

 Officials of the   said that 126 houses had been notified as ‘dangerous’ and unfit for living. But with no alternative arrangement made to shift the people, the wretched residents now believe that the notifications were meant to absolve the officials in case of mishaps. “It will help them shift blame in case someone dies. They will pay the death compensation, of course, but that does not help us at the moment,” charged Umed Singh, 67, a retired government official whose house is located on the highest point of the affected mound and is now breaking apart in three directions.
 
 Dangerously, sections of several houses have already collapsed in the last few weeks. In two cases, the occupants barely escaped with their lives, while the son of 60-year-old   was lucky to survive when the staircase of the house collapsed two weeks ago. In October, falling plaster caused a fracture of Chetna Sahai’s school-going grandson Mayank. “We desperately need help. I have worked hard all my life to put this roof over my head,” moaned the 63-year-old woman. “We would have left if we had the resources to do so. Rahenge toh mar jayenge.” 
 
 Sahai has been plugging the ever-widening cracks with cement, as has her neighbour Babita, but theirs is a futile effort to stop the crumbling. And then as  , 37, pointed out, “When notebandi has made it difficult to even run households, is it possible to get money to constantly repair our houses?” The situation is so fragile that Preetam and his co-afflicted had to request neighbours not to blast crackers during any celebration for fear of worsening the existing damages. 
 
 Even as the people live in the shadow of death, municipal officials admitted to TOI that for now “status quo is being maintained”, explaining that “lack of political will in the election season is preventing us from even sealing the houses and so putting hundreds of lives at stake”. One official said, “There was a proposal to conduct a study of the soil on which the houses were built, but nothing happened.” 
 
 VP Pandey, leader of the House in the North Corporation, assured that he would soon take up the issue once more with Anil Baijal, the new lieutenant governor. Umed Singh had earlier met Najeeb Jung, but he said everyone he approaches just gives them a standard answer: “File are moving and reports are being prepared.”
 
 The local administration made arrangement for some families to stay in the community centre at Khera Kalan, but the original inhabitants resented the venue for marriages and other events being occupied by the distressed people. “There was a scuffle in October,” said Bhavna, an affected resident. “To avoid our children and women facing problems, we simply went back to our houses.”
 
 
