MUMBAI: The   has said that around 800 security personnel from   who man the state's public medical colleges will be replaced by guards from the   Corporation (MSSC). A similar change will also be visible in civic hospitals in Mumbai, where more than 400 guards are likely to be posted from April 1 and 700 to be added later.

 An audit report for the BMC-run KEM and Sion hospitals about their security status was finalised just days before a resident doctor was attacked by a patient's relatives at Sion on Saturday .
 
 According to it, KEM has a requirement of 306 security persons to man their nine entry gates across five campuses. Currently , the hospital has around 210 guards, who work in shifts. Sion needs to add around 50 more guards to a strength of 180 to cover sensitive points like ICUs, casualty and labour rooms. Nair Hospital, in an inter nal audit, has found that at leas 50-60 guards are needed in addition to 97 currently posted.
 
  said that based on the report a proposal to boost security in the hospital has been prepared.An experimental alarm has also been installed, connecting   and casualty areas. “ Additional security will cost the corporation more than Rs 4 crore, which has to be paid as a security deposit to the MSSC. We are waiting for the approvals,“ he said.
 
 Head of Directorate of Medical Education and Research   said that the state has increased the strength of security personnel to 1200 over the last five years and installed more than 1100 CCTV cameras.“But security is not the only solution. We have to teach communication to our residents.They have to be taught how to disclose a news or health condition,“ he said.
 
 
 
 
 The HC has directed MARD to file an affidavit to clarify their stance after their advocate, Prashant Pophale, said members were not on strike and neither had the association called one. He said individual doctors had gone on leave themselves. The bench said, “In that case...every individual doctor who participates in such mass protests would attract action for contempt of court. You cannot say that unless security is provided you will not work. Then you resign... Doctors have to be compassionate towards patients. One cannot compromise on that.“ Dr Suleman Merchant, dean of Sion Hospital, was in court and later said, “We will ensure that poor patients do no suffer and at the same time better security is provided to doctors as their safety too cannot be compromised.“ Last September, the HC had observed that the state had failed miserably to provide security to doctors. It ordered sufficient armed security, including private guards, if necessary, at each such hospital. The HC will continue hearing the matter on Wednesday. 
 
