KERI/PANAJI: A leopard died on Tuesday after getting caught in a snare trap suspected to have been laid out to catch wild boars by unidentified persons, near Wadaval village in Bicholim. The four-year-old male big cat, weighing approximately 25kg, was trapped in the wire of what forest officials described as a ‘snare trap made from motorcycle cable’, tied to a tree.

 There are increasing number of cases of killing wild animals using snares in Bicholim, Sattari and Dharbandora areas. Villagers staying close to forests or on the fringes set up snares to kill crop-raiding animals and some times there are poachers who use these snares to kill wild animals for meat, wildlifers said.
 
 Baban Rane, a member of village panchayat Latambarcem, told TOI, “A local youth was frightened to see a leopard trapped in a snare at Gaunkarwada-Vadawal. When I got the news, I immediately informed the police, but it took over two hours for forest officials to reach the spot; by then the leopard breathed its last.”
 
 Amrut Singh, president of animal rescue squad, said, “This is not the first time a leopard has been trapped and has died in a snare. On many earlier occasions, poachers were caught red-handed using snares to kill wild animals for meat. The forest department has not viewed it seriously. There is a need to undertake a snare detection drive during the summer when water crises for animals intensifies.
 
 Principal chief conservation of forests Ajax Saxena said, “If concrete evidence of killing wild animals by snares is given we will take stringent actions against law-breakers.”
 
 The leopard is suspected to have ventured into a private paddy field on Monday night. The area reportedly has a sizeable stray dog population, which forest officials suspect, might have lured the leopard. Range forest officer of Pernem, Vilas Gawas, said, “When we reached the spot and were waiting for the rescue team, the leopard was dead.”
 
 “We have conducted a panchanama in the case and will investigate the matter,” said Gawas. “The rescue squad from Bondla arrived by 9am, but the leopard died at 8.30am, probably due to starvation. There were no external injury marks. We are waiting for the postmortem report,” he said. 
 
 Vitthal Shelke, a volunteer of Vivekanand Environment Awareness Brigade, said, “Snares used for killing wild boars could became a death trap for larger carnivores like tigers and leopards. Poachers use these snares along trails frequented by wild animals by spreading thorny sticks on both sides around bushes.”
 
