BENGALURU: Venture capital (VC) firm Kalaari Capital's MD   has resigned from the board of online marketplace Snapdeal, according to regulatory filings with the Registrar of Companies (RoC). The Bengaluru-based fund is one of the early backers of   and holds about 8% stake in the now embattled company. Kola's resignation from the Snapdeal board further signals the impending sale of the ecommerce firm to   and that Kalaari has agreed to a settlement with  .

 Kola sent her resignation letter to the board of  , which runs Snapdeal, on May 2, asking to be relieved of her duties as a board member immediately , the filings pointed out. Both Kalaari and Nexus Venture Partners, the two largest investors in Snapdeal after SoftBank, were at loggerheads with the Japanese group wanting a better value for the stake they own in the web retailer. The rift has delayed the sale of Snapdeal.
 
 Kola's resignation comes at a time when Nexus, too, has come on board for the proposed sale. TOI had reported in its May 12 edition that Nexus has given an in-principle nod to SoftBank for Snapdeal's sale in a cut-price deal valuing the e-tailer at about $1 billion. The settlement may involve Nexus getting a stake in the merged entity of Flipkart and Snapdeal. Nexus owns about 10% in Snapdeal and has invested around $45 million in the e-tailer over the years. We had reported that Kola was likely to sell the stake in Snapdeal to SoftBank.
 
 A non-binding term sheet has been prepared for the merger and a due diligence process is likely to start soon, TOI had reported in its May 12 edition. Incidentally , SoftBank recorded $1.4 billion in losses from its India portfolio, according to its earnings report for the period ended March 31, 2017.Almost $1 billion out of that was accredited to Snapdeal.
 
 The Masayoshi Son-led SoftBank group had pumped in about $900 million since first investing in Snapdeal back in 2014 and holds 33% stake in the online retailer. SoftBank plans to buy out all the existing investors' stakes in the e-tailer and merge it with Flipkart.After that, the Japanese group will invest up to $1.5 billion in the merged entity by picking up primary and secondary shares, giving it 1520% in the Flipkart-Snapdeal, TOI had first reported in its March 28 edition.
 
