CHENNAI: Ever experienced the double whammy of losing your wallet and your phone?

 Well,   is coming to the rescue of those unlucky enough to lose both at one go. The Chennai-based startup has devised solutions by which one can locate one's possession using bluetooth or radio frequency identification (RFID) tech nology. For customers like Ankit in Delhi it proved to be a face saver when he went on his first date.
 
 “I'd got into my car and was about to leave when I got a notification on my   reminding me to take my wallet along. Imagine how embarrassing it would have been to show up for the date without the wallet,“ says Ankit.
 
 And he is one of 5,700 customers, who have bought the product since its launch in December 2016.
 
 Founders T S Sathyaraj and A Kannan say it works both ways. “If its the wallet that's lost, the customer gets n o ti f i cat i o ns on t h ei r phone. If its the phone lost, then your wallet starts beeping. And what if both are lost? Then you can always track location by connecting to our Cuir Ally Smart Voyager from a laptop, tablet or desktop,“ says Sathyaraj.
 
 Among the Voya g er Smart's other features is its ability to find a smartphone even when it is on silent mode.
 
 Another cool element is that the wallet can take group selfies with just a double tap.
 
 “I have about 20 years experience in the leather industry and Kannan has travelled a lot, so he handles marketing. We have personally experienced how nightmarish it can be to lose one's phone or wallet. We usually have our driving license, PAN card, bank debit and credit cards. If we lose them, we have to apply all over again and its a lengthy, arduous procedure,“ says Sathyaraj, co-founder, Cuir Ally.
 
 Currently available only online, Cuir Ally hopes to take its product offline to brick-and-motor stores with a capital infusion via crowdfunding on platform  .
 
 Cuir Ally had an initial target of `5 lakh, when it was first show-cased on FuelADream. But with still 10 more days left to go, the startup already has seen 210%   after it raised as much as `10.50 lakh as on Friday . “It is a very unique initiative. And it is not surprising that this has seen so much interest from the general public. They also have STARK, a slim unisex wallet that uses RFID technology to keep credit and debit card details secure,“ says  , founder and CEO, FuelADream.
 
 Cuir Ally, which has a five-member team, is based out of a corporate office in   Industrial Estate.
 
 “Our wallets are manufactured out of a factory 20 km from Ambattur, close to Thirunindravur. We have current outsourced the manufacturing. Our core team deals with sourcing leather, design and production,“ says Sathyaraj.
 
 Currently, the wallet made out of pure leather is sold in three colours at black, brown and blue at `3,499. Available at a discount on FuelADream, about 432 customers have already taken their pick.“We are also looking at getting shelf space at other retail outlets,“ says Sathyaraj.
 
 (This series captures the startup ecosystem in the state)
 
