HUBBALLI: India has a rich heritage of legal luminaries who have written many classic legal books. However, excess use of internet to study cases by the young advocates is not a good trend, opined Supreme Court senior advocate KK Venugopal.

 He was delivering the keynote address at the third annual convocation of the Karnataka State Law University (KSLU) held at Sannidhi auditorium in   campus in Dharwad on Friday.
 
 He said that the growth of information and technology has helped all the sectors including the legal field, but internet knowledge in half-boiled and not in-depth. Moreover books should find a place in every house and college book shelves. These books provide plethora of information on the constitutional and civil laws and are of great help to the young advocates. 
 
 Venugopal said that country over 15 lakh advocates. In Delhi itself more than one lakh advocates are practising. As per a report more than 40% advocates are fake. But this is not true. In India, the strength of fake lawyers is between 5% to 6% and this could be contained. Hence, the entrance test being conducted by the   to allow the advocates to practice has become very essential, he said. Through this exam, the judiciary is restricting the practice of law only to genuine advocates, he noted.
 
 The senior advocate also called upon the budding advocates and law graduating students to maintain the ethics of the profession and inculcate discipline in their lives to scale up the professional ladder.
 
 Law minister and pro-chancellor TB Jayachandra declared open the convocation and presented gold medals and cash certificates to the graduating students.
 
 KSLU in-charge vice-chancellor CS Patil was present on occasion. The convocation began with a procession of degree holders led by mace-bearer GB Patil.
 
 Gold medalists
 
 Nidhi Sateesh, student of SDM Law College, Mangaluru, emerged as the ‘golden girl’ by bagging two gold medals at the convocation. She received the gold medal instituted by the KSLU for coming first in the 2-year LLM (business and trade laws) and Nana Palkiwala Memorial trust gold medal for highest scorer in 2-year LLM.
 
 Sowmya BA from BMS Law College bagged gold medal in LLB course, KM Amar for five-year BA LLB, Priyanjali from KLE Law College for five-year BBA LLB, Mahammandali Nayak from KSLU Law School for five year BBA LLB (Hons), Safalya Wagle from KSLU Law College for one-year LLM (constitutional and adminstrative),   from KSLU for one-year LLM (Corporate and Commercial) and Ashwini ED from   for two-year LLM (Constitutional laws).
 
 
