HYDERABAD: With the death of five student in one month, serious concerns are being raised over lack of sensitivity among teachers or school managements in handling simple situations and the over hypersensitivity of children.

 While schools try to blame the death of the child on other reasons, in most of the cases humiliation faced in front of their peers, drives a child to the edge. “Humiliation at any point in school will deeply affect a child, to avoid any untoward incidents there should be proper communication between parents, teachers, and students,” said  , a parent adding that schools should introspect as to why such incidents happen only in mediocre schools.
 
 Teachers, on the other hand, say that such suicides happen because parents are too possessive about their kids who have no practical exposure and fumble at the first sight of a problem.
 
 “A child will have a suicidal tendency if he/she is mentally weak. Parent’s possessiveness is making kids very sensitive. If a child thinks he needs to end his life, if the day is not going according to his wish, then it is a collective failure of teachers, parents, and society,” said A Lakshmi Darithri, principal, Surya-the Global School. 
 
 Suicidal tendencies, according to doctors, are gradually developed behavioural problem. Dr  , a consultant psychiatrist at  , says at least 20 percent of the population is depressed at any given time but not even one percent approaches a doctor.
 
 “These days children have poor resilience. If we see the recent case where a girl committed suicide after school asked her parents to come and collect her cellphone which she brought to school, it clearly shows that she was worried about potential outcome,” said Dr Praveen Kumar C, a psychiatrist whose area of expertise include child psychology. 
 
 “To overcome such problems, teachers should be trained to notice early warning signs of suicidal tendency and warn parents. Schools should have an in-house counselor, who should talk with students regularly and do not hesitate to talk about suicides and depression,” he added saying that children have poor frustration and ambiguity tolerance. 
 
