GURUGRAM:   on Thursday   against the developer for “illegally” raising a bill clubbing maintenance and  

 Some 150 residents gathered at the site office of   Infra Pvt Ltd in Sector 52 around 11 am and shouted slogans against the “illegal” bills. They gheraoed the officials there for over five hours. The protesters dispersed only after police officials and the assistant town planner intervened in the matter.
 
 “Earlier the developer used to issue two separate bills — an electricity bill in the name of Ardee Infra Pvt Ltd and a maintenance bill in the name of Ardee maintenance. Now, the developer has issued a single bill,” said Chaitali Mandhotra, one of the residents. 
 
 Electricity charges have been a bone of contention between the residents and the developer for a while now. And residents have already approached the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission over the power woes in the society. Mandhotra said around 65% of the residents do not pay maintenance charges to the developer as a sign of protest against the deplorable condition of the power infrastructure in Ardee City. Some residents alleged the developer has combined the two bills to illegally force the residents to pay up for the upkeep charges.
 
 “Ardee residents are being harassed by another cheap trick by the builder. Until last month, we were paying electricity and maintenance bills to separate companies, but this month Ardee clubbed maintenance and electricity bills into one. This act is aimed at harassing residents,” said Praveen Yadav, another resident.
 
 “The builder has been inflating electricity bills for a few months to force residents pay extra amount. Residents are sitting in this scorching heat outside Ardee office, demanding separation of electricity and maintenance bills,” said Lisa Mody, another resident. However, authorities have asked the developer to submit in an explanation for merging the two bills. A senior DTCP official said, “We will resolve the matter in a peaceful manner.”
 
 When contacted, Anil Hasija , Ardee Infra’s associate vice president, told TOI, “The bill can be clubbed as we want and there is nothing wrong with it. However, I have been urging the residents to resolve this amicably.”
 
 
