CHENNAI: As   continue to climb in  , the state health department has identified five taluks as hotspots of the vector-borne disease and mobilised sanitary and medical taskforces in 10 districts.

 Against the backdrop of this spike, a review meeting was held by the ministers of health and municipal administration on Thursday. The ministers directed officials in both departments to step up vigil and ensure sanitation, especially in districts bordering Kerala and Karnataka, which have seen high prevalence.
 
 In June, the state recorded around 1,200   cases, taking the total number of those affected to 4,400 since January -- the second highest in the country after Kerala.
 
 “We are coordinating with officials across the border and sharing our resources, including videos and other awareness campaign materials to eliminate mosquito breeding sites,” said health minister C Vijayabaskar. Healthcare facilities close to the border are receiving patients from the neighbouring states and their details are notified to their respective district officials. The municipal administration within the state is supporting the health department in cleaning drives and testing filters of water treatment plants attached to various local bodies.
 
 Officials say drinking water stored in large containers in Chennai and surrounding districts to tide over the water crisis, and stagnant rainwater in western districts, have led to an uptick in mosquito population.
 
 Public health officials have identified clusters in Palani, Pollachi, Bhavani, Manapparai and Hosur where the incidence of the disease is high or prevalent over a prolonged period of time. In addition, hospitals in 10 districts, including Kanyakumari, Tirunelveli, Coimbatore and Salem, have been put on alert. Officials have mapped three settlements in Erode, Pollachi and Palani which are seeing a mix of infections like typhoid and leptospirosis along with dengue.
 
 Director of public health K Kolandaisamy said the department is giving impetus to awareness campaigns. “Our field officers are going door-to-door asking residents not to store water for long, not to let it stagnate and get all fevers tested,” he said.
 
 The spread of dengue is usually associated with dry and wet seasons as the Aedes mosquito breeds in exposed standing water. Despite government warnings on open water containers, the crisis has forced many families to store water wherever they can, providing more breeding grounds than usual for mosquitoes.
 
 While the dry weather didn’t place Chennai on the health department’s high dengue alert zone, the city will have to wait for a week to see if the recent spell of rain has increased the vector count. 
 
 Since January, the city has seen around 100 cases. Doctors say although they started seeing patients earlier this year, the severity is much lesser. “Most of the cases we saw were either treated as outpatients or discharged after two days of observation,” said senior consultant paediatrician Dr   at Kanchi Kamakoti Childs Trust Hospital.
 
