MANALI: The national level skiing and snowboarding championships concluded here on Sunday with   from the Indian Army and   winning the most medals in different categories. Over 200 skiers of 10 teams from different states participated in   in both skiing and snowboarding categories. 

 Sunil Kumar from Gulmarg based Indian Army’s High Altitude Warfare School (HAWS) won gold in men’s slalom. Sunny Kumar and Asif Aziz Zieger, both from the Army, finished at second and third places respectively. Aanchal Thakur, Varsha Thakur and Sandhya Thakur, all from Himachal, bagged gold, silver and bronze in women slalom category.
 
 In giant slalom men’s category, Hira Lal from Himachal finished race at first place while Devendra Gurung from the Army and Sanjay Thakur from the state won silver and gold respectively. Aanchal Thakur, Sandhya Thakur and Varsha Thakur of Himachal fetched first, second and third place respectively in giant slalom women category.
 
 In men senior snowboarding slalom, Lil Bahadur Thapa from the Army fetched gold, Avtar Singh from the Army got silver and Vivek Rana from HAWS fetched bronze. In men junior under same category, Zubair Ahmed, from Indian Institute of Skiing and Mountaineering (IISM), Gulmarg, finished at first place while Ankit Thakur and Pankaj Thakur, both from Himachal, made it to second and third places respectively.
 
 It was giant slalom that attracted attention of all the most as its course was nearly a kilometre long with slope of around 60 degrees in the beginning. Thapa again bagged gold in senior giant slalom for snowboarding while Kamal Jeet from Himachal and Karan Singh from the Army bagged second and third places respectively. In junior category of the same discipline, Zubair, Pankaj and Rinku Thakur from Himachal, finished the race at first, second and third places respectively.
 
 Skiers from Uttarakhand, Delhi and Punjab also performed well. The slopes of Solang on Sunday received fresh snow. The competitions were organized by Himachal Pradesh Winter Games Association (HPWGA) with help of Winter Games Federation of India (WGFI) and Atal Bihari Vajpayee Institute of Mountaineering and Allied Sports (ABVIMAS) as per specification of International Ski Federation (FIS).
 
 HPWGA president Roop Chand Negi said the championships have filled winter games lovers with enthusiasm. “The games concluded successfully after distribution of the prizes on Sunday. The skiers will be sent to world championships and Olympics as per their current performances,” he said.
 
 
