AMARAVATI: The historical assembly session that started about 10 days ago in the new capital city, Amaravati is inching closer to an end without transacting any meaningful business. 

 People have set many hopes on the first session to be held on the home soil after the bifurcation of the state to be a smooth one and discuss real issues concerning poor. In fact, chief minister   wanted all of legislators to remain calm and maintain decency during the budget session as it is a historical occasion to conduct the session in the new capital city. 
 
 Surprisingly, nothing went right except on the first day when governor E S L Narasimhan addressed the joint session of the assembly and the council.
 
  minister   presented the budget on March 15 and the next 10 days were spared exclusively to deliberate on budget speech and allocations. Surprisingly, no discussion on budgetary allocation was held till date even as the session is coming to a close on March 31.
 
 The government wanted to dedicate the last two days - March 30 and 31 exclusively for the pending bills. Just two more days will be available for discussion on budgetary allocations as there would no session on Ugadi.
 
 The social activists and senior citizens, however, expressed their displeasure at the way both the sides are engaged in diverting the real issues. Former MP Yalamanchili Sivaji said the treasury bench has more responsibility in seeing that the house runs smoothly and takes up planned business. "It can't simply blame the opposition and escape from its own responsibilities," said Sivaji. He observed that an in-depth discussion on allocations will help the government to correct things if anything is wrong and do good to the people. 
 
 The session was completely ruined by protests and counter protests, slogans and counter slogans, challenges and counter challenges between the ruling TDP and opposition YSRC. "The opposition had deliberately created a ruckus in the house with an intention to bring disrepute to the government. YSRC itself landed in trouble following a discussion on AgriGold scam," observed TDP state wing president and legislator Kala Venkata Rao. He said the chief minister wanted to discuss all the issues in a calm and peaceful environment but the opposition was not in a mood to relent.
 
 However, YSRC leader   alleged that it was the ruling party which diverted the house for fear of facing the opposition. He said the people have been watching the session carefully and seeing as to how the opposition leader is being denied the opportunity to speak.
 
 Social activist   said the session is being conducted more decently in Telangana despite the presence of MLAs belonging to three or four opposition parties. "The ruling party can do whatever it wants but it should allow the opposition to speak," he said.
 
 Postponement of the budget presentation by two days following the sudden death of Nandyal MLA Bhuma Nagi Reddy is an incident that could find a mention in the history of maiden assembly session in Amaravati.
 
