
 
 When the girls from the class of '92 walked through the massive   of  , on a beautiful Bengaluru morning, it was like the past 25 years had just not happened.
 
 There were banners announcing the reunion, photographers clicking away, students and teachers hugging and holding on to each other, laughter and tears; tears of joy at being back at their  , a place that holds lasting and powerful memories, tears of joy for returning to that safe, warm place once more, in a forever changing and sometimes confusing world.
 
 The 25th reunion of the graduating class of 1992 was a beautifully choreographed, well planned and well executed marvel. A lot of money was raised by a generous alumni, to donate to the college for scholarships and retired staff. There were fantastic performances from the current students and the girls from the batch of `92 showed they could still shake a leg and get the entire audience at the auditorium on their feet. The music was mellifluous, the dances graceful, the food delicious but, beyond all that, there was heart, there was love, there was acceptance. All the grudges, the cliques, the pettiness that sometimes characterize one's college life gave way to acceptance, to shared life experiences and the sheer joy of meeting friends who had changed so much and yet not changed at all.
 
 A lot of teachers spoke from the stage. They were visibly emotional and overwhelmed. One English professor put it best, when she said, she had taught smarter and brighter students, but not a smarter or a brighter batch, than the batch of 1992.
 
 Students from this class remember the sheer joy of bunking class and riding to Mahatma Gandhi Road on their bikes whenever they wanted ­ to get an ice-cream at   or a burger at  . The college gates were always open and no one ever questioned us those days. There was no dress code and the only stress was “what to wear to college“ ­ jeans, mini skirts and yes even salwars. Carefree times! We even once had an episode of Christ College guys who had the guts to drive through college with a cavalcade of bikes and were trapped when someone decided to close the gates with them inside college; and got “bhutta“ thrown on them by the girls on the drive. Our teachers made every day at college worthwhile for us with their deep knowledge of their subjects and sense of humor.
 
 Cricket, the heartbeat of India, did not escape us girls at Mount Carmel College ­ and Imran Khan and Vivian Richards were college heartthrobs at that time. Between classes, somebody with a transistor in the backbench would listen to the score and write it on a piece of paper and pass down the paper all the way to the front. While we thought we were quite good at hiding the paper, the whole time one of the male commerce professors had their eyes on the “scorecard“ paper coming to the front. When it came to the front row, I remember the professor cleared his throat and just when I thought we were busted and in trouble, he asked “so what's the score?“ Phew.
 
 You never have friends ­ and you never have fun ­ the way you did at college.
 
 (In this column, people record their impressions of Bengaluru)
 
