NAGPUR: Anti-dam activist   has called for a nationwide law banning liquor even as she termed BJP’s stance on the issue to be merely that one of seeking political advantage. Activists under the aegis of Nasha Mukta Bharat had held a convention in the city on Wednesday to plan for its campaign demanding total prohibition. 

 Around 500 people from different parts of the country attended the meet. Patkar also flayed the government on beef ban saying that the issue has to be handled with sensitivity. “The decision has only led to communal divide leaving many as victims of cow vigilantism even among the cattle-rearers’ community,” she said.
 
 Swami Agnivesh, who is also raising the liquor ban banner, however had a different view on beef ban. He wanted a beef ban law throughout the country. “To tackle the problem of surplus bovine population after that government can have massive projects to make fertilizer out of cow dung and urine. This can replace chemical fertilizers which are harmful,” said Agnivesh.
 
 On prohibition, both Patkar and Agnivesh are showcasing Gujarat as a successful model for liquor ban. “The state is still the most progressive and does not depend on income from excise,” said Patkar.
 
 However, Patkar said BJP is not serious about the issue. “After the success in  , BJP too is seeing the political gains out of prohibition. The party has announced to implement prohibition in a phased manner in Madhya Pradesh where it is in power,” she said. 
 
 “The Namami Narmade drive which bans liquor shops till 5 kms from the river front is a mere eyewash. Soon after the ban, a number of liquor licences were renewed elsewhere in the state,” said Patkar.
 
 According to one of the activists, there have been similar developments in Chhattisgarh too where the authorities are now busy reopening the closed liquor outlets.
 
 Agnivesh, on the other hand, showed confidence in   saying that like note ban he is expected to come up with a blanket law on prohibition too. “This can be expected on October 2, Mahatma Gandhi’s birth anniversary,” he said.
 
 Unlike Patkar, he said the BJP government appeared to be serious on the issue and Modi, who has maintained prohibition in Gujarat throughout his regime as chief minister, should now come forward and “clamp liquor ban in the entire country”.
 
 The Nasha Mukt Bharat outfit plans to launch a campaign demanding liquor ban from May 1. Similar drives will be held sporadically till October 2. Protest marches will also be held on the birth anniversaries of Ram Manohar Lohia and Jaiprakash Narayan.
 
