PANAJI
 The Indian Super League’s plans for a 10-team league this season remains unchanged despite uncertainty from Kolkata’s big clubs, Mohun Bagan and East Bengal.
 
  The Kolkata giants have both picked up the bid papers and held talks with the All India   Federation ( ) over participation in the  . But the legacy clubs have been unable to obtain an assurance from the organizers that the franchise fee – ranging from Rs 12 crore to Rs 18 crore – will be waived off.
  
  Even if both Kolkata clubs stay away, the organizers are likely to be aided by   and Tata Group, both of whom are expected to submit their bid papers on Thursday.
  
  “Bengaluru FC have their bid papers ready. They were the first to pick up the invitation to bid (ITB) documents and have done well to keep everything ready. Their bid will be submitted before the 5pm deadline on Thursday,” a source familiar with the development told TOI.
  
  Interestingly, just like the Kolkata clubs, Bengaluru FC too had submitted a conditional bid when tenders were first floated in 2014 but the bid was summarily rejected.
  
  This time around, the Federation Cup champions and India’s most successful club in the last four years, are unwilling to take a chance. They will submit a complete bid, which will include the franchise fee guarantee of Rs 7.5 crore.
  
  The Tata Group also picked up the bid papers, and although there is no confirmation, the salt-to-software enterprise is understood to be keen on owning a franchise.
  
  The three-edition old ISL currently has eight franchises based in Mumbai, Pune, Delhi, Kolkata, Guwahati, Goa, Kochi and Chennai. Should the Tata Group and Bengaluru FC follow an expected route, the ISL juggernaut will move to Jamshedpur and the Garden City.
  
  The ISL and I-League, India’s premier football competition, will both run simultaneously this season for five months. The ISL will kick off mid-November while the introduction of the Super Cup – a clash between the top four teams from each league – will keep ISL franchises busy till end of season for the first time since inception in 2014.
