KOLKATA: Inspirational quotes on philosophy and life written all over the windows of Ayovin Jana’s room, hundreds of books on the shelf, clothes strewn around and an unkempt bed keeps the Class IX student’s memory alive for his father Arunabha. The   student was run over by a train at Park Circus railway station on Thursday morning after he lost balance while scampering to board the moving train.

 “My son was proud of two things — being Bosconian and a Boy Scout,” said Arunabha with moist eyes as he scanned the newspapers for reports on his son’s death. “Everyday, I dropped him to school and picked him up. On Thursday too I had accompanied Ayovin to school. The exam was supposed to get over by 10am. He asked me if he could go out with his friends,” Arunabha added.
 
 Ayovin was popular among his friends. The teen was planning to attend a small party after the exam. “It is a Bosconian tradition. I gave him permission as he was a responsible child. I didn’t want him to miss out on the fun of growing up. I asked him if I should pick him up after the party but he assured me he would return in time with his friends. Little did I know his journey home would turn fatal,” rued the depressed father in his two-storeyed home at Pathak Para in Behala.
 
 According to his father, Ayovin had suddenly become god fearing. “After the first exam he suddenly went to the puja room and prayed before the idols. He prayed everyday since then. When I asked him the reason for it, he said his first exam went very well and expected his prayers would help in all other exams,” Arunbha said.
 
 Ayovin’s mother Debjani works at   in Basanti. “She called me and said Ayovin had met with an accident. I thought it may have been a minor one. I hired an ambulance to reach   hospital where I learnt my son was dead,” Arunabha sobbed. Debjani has not been able to accept the reality. As the family members and locals were trying to convince Debjani to eat, the only thing the grieving mother could feebly utter in disbelief was that her son is gone — forever.
 
 Several teachers from Ayovin’s school attended his funeral on Thursday.
 
 
