HYDERABAD: Contaminated water in some city lakes is killing aquatic life and has become a serious health hazard for residents as well. 

 In one alarming case, sewer water has been flowing into   in  , forcing communities located nearby to face the brunt. To make matters worse, accumulation of garbage and other waste material near the storm water inlets has resulted in inundation of nearby areas over the years. Any clean-up of the lake has failed and the result has been the increasing levels of toxic chemicals.
 
 Speaking about the high levels of pollution, Sirisha K, an environmentalist, said, "Many aquatic animals are dying due to the contaminated water. The deteriorating natural habitat of plants and animals is a serious concern."
 
 Not just waste, residents have to face the fall-out of spreading water hyacinth. The 'green cover' on the lake has resulted in the spread of mosquitoes. With five people already affected with dengue, including three children, people here are a concerned lot.
 
 "The mosquito menace is a huge problem and we have tried talking to everyone about it," said Krishan Kaza, an environmentalist, who stays near the lake. 
 
 Ahead of the monsoon another resident voiced apprehensions, stating, "The situation worsens whenever it rains and I request authorities to fix the issue before monsoons." 
 
 Speaking about the matter, Mamatha V, a   officialm, said, "We are cleaning water hyacinth regularly but it grows very fast. The GHMC has taken up beautification of lakes and this lake is also under consideration." 
 
 The mosquito menace can be seen at the Miyapur Lake as well. This too is completely covered with hyacinth and one can hardly see the water. "The government has turned a blind eye towards the lake. They are risking our lives by not maintaining it," said a resident of Miyapur. "We have to keep our windows shut due to the foul smell," he said. 
 
 The loss of fauna has also bothered many. "The lake used to have many different species of birds. Now, I can hardly see two species of birds," said a techie. 
 
 The residents near the HMT Nagar lake and   lake in Nacharam are also facing similar issues. Their grievances have been sent to authorities by   corporator Shanti Saizen.
 
 
