SERAMPORE: Two days after the   of   footballer Snehashis Dasgupta (25) was found beside the  , the police have started a  . Dasgupta's parents lodged a complaint against five of his friends, a Trinamool Congress councillor of the neighbouring ward and her husband.

 Mousumi Nag is the councillor of Ward 27 of Serampore Municipality and Snehashis' father alleged that she had accompanied her husband Pintu Nag (former councillor) and brother Rintu Saha to their house at Tarapukur in Hooghly early on Saturday . They had allegedly assaulted and took Snehashis away with them. His body was found a few hours later beside the railway tracks, 1.5 km from their house.
 
 Mousumi Nag was not available for comments. But her husband Pintu Nag rubbished the allegations. “I know the fa mily for long and am myself upset over the boy's death. I know he had an altercation with some of his friends and I had gone to his house to safely drop him over there after I found him fighting at the neighbourhood in an inebriated state. I had also tried to wake up his family member but none had responded so I left him at his house and returned to my home.“
 
 Snehashis' father Dolon Dasgupta, however, alleged, “This is a clear case of murder.I have learnt from neighbours that my son had an altercation with the friends and had returned home in an inebriated state when his friends and the councillor and her husband entered our house, assaulted him and took him away . I suspect they killed my son.“
 
 After his body was found, people noticed a Facebook post from his profile posted at 3.53am that read: “ Asi sobai, R thakte mon kor6e Na ai somaje, ai juge valobasa bole ki6u hoy Na, sobai sathopor, amar mrittur jonno keo dai noyyy ....(goodbye everyone, I don't feel like staying in this society any longer, there is nothing called love in this period, everyone is selfish, no one is responsible for my death)“.
 
 Snehashis' mother Nilima, however, claimed the post was done by someone else to ensure the murder looks like a suicide.
 
 A senior officer at Sheoraphuli GRP , who is probing into the case said they are yet to find the mobile. He added the five friends, including Saha, who were named in the FIR are also absconding. “We have started a case of murder on the basis of the family's complaint and are probing into the case,“ he said.The officer added that the councilor and her husband would be questioned too.
 
