PUDUCHERRY: All dealers,  , are eligible for full input tax credit on the purchase and receipt of goods or services used in the course of furtherance of business under   (GST) regime, said commissioner ( ) G Srinivas in a release. The   regime came into effect from July 1. 

 Dealers, whose turnover is more than Rs 20 lakh per annum, must register themselves under the new taxation system. There is no compulsion for dealers with less than Rs 20 lakh turnover per annum to register under GST, said Srinivas in the release. “However, they can obtain registration under GST at their discretion even if their turnover is less than Rs 20 lakh,” he said.
 
 Srinivas said small dealers, whose turnover is up to Rs 75 lakh per annum, can opt for a simple composition scheme and pay tax at lower rates -- 5% for restaurants, 2% for manufacturers and 1% for other dealers. They can file returns quarterly and even make purchases from other states. However, they are not eligible for input tax credit, he said.
 
 The commissioner said the prices of most of the consumer goods, electrical and electronic appliances and vehicles have come down. “But the public has a perception that the levy of GST has increased the prices of goods and services. The tax paid on most of the goods will be lesser or equal to the tax paid on such goods in the pre-GST regime,” he said.
 
 He said the levy of tax under GST on the goods from the point of manufacture till it reaches the consumers will be comparatively lower than erstwhile tax. “It is evident that the prices of two-wheelers and four-wheelers have considerably reduced. Likewise the prices of toothpaste, soap, detergent powder, plastic items, electronic and electrical goods have also come down,” he said.
 
 Giving an example, he said if the value of biscuit in pre-GST regime was Rs 100, excise duty (6%) Rs 6 was levied and the cost of the biscuit becomes Rs 106. On the imposition of 14.5% valued added tax (Vat) the final price of biscuit becomes Rs 121.37. Under GST, the biscuit with Rs 100 value and with levy of GST (18%) will be priced at Rs 118, which means the final price of the biscuit has come down by Rs 3.37.
 
 Srinivas directed all manufacturers and dealers to adjust the prices accordingly and display the new price by affixing a sticker without hiding the old MRP rate. He sought traders and consumers not to fall prey to the rumours on GST in social media and urged them to contact the commercial taxes department to clarify their queries on GST and tax rates.
 
