The wait is finally over and the race day is here. After practising and planning for months (we hope you trained adequately), you are finally all set to cross the starting line tomorrow. 
Running a   is not just about being physically fit and healthy, but mentally as well. Marathons are an experience to cherish; they become a way of life and bring a tremendous amount of positive energy. Doing it the right way is crucial and so, we got experts to list out tips to keep in mind on the big day. 
 
 
 
 Senior interventional cardiologist Dr Nilesh Gautam says, “Make sure you get adequate rest the night before the race (tonight). Eat a dinner rich in carbohydrates as that is your main fuel for exercise.”
 
 
 
 On Sunday, one must have a light breakfast before leaving home. Dr Gautam advises, “Arrive at the start point at least an hour before time to avoid last minute anxiety and chaos.”
 Dr Tilak Suvarna, senior interventional cardiologist, adds, “Your pre-marathon breakfast should be identical to and should have the same amount of ‘lead time’ as your breakfast during your training runs. That way, you can concentrate completely on the race itself and not on your belly.”
 
 
 
 With hundreds of people crowding you at the start line, it is easy to get intimidated if you are a first-time racer. Experts say that one of the biggest mistakes novices make is to start out too fast, too quickly. The marathon is a long race and one must begin slow and pick up pace in the second half. “Don’t get carried away by those who are running faster than you. Run at your own pace,” says
 Dr Gautam.
 But do keep in mind that speed is also essential along with maintaining your stamina, to enable you to complete, and maybe even win the marathon.
 
 
 
 Drinking water or any other oral rehydration fluid supplied at each water station along the way is essential, say experts. Don’t ignore the electrolyte mixes. Munch on some snacks. Running 42 km is no mean feat and is not easy on your body, so don’t ignore the necessities. Dr Tilak adds, “If you are running the full marathon, make sure you replenish your sugar levels actively during the race as well.”
 
 
 
 Marathons these days are about celebrities, selfies and the pressure of social media presence. Save your emotions and avoid getting swayed by the cheering spectators waving out to you. Be stingy with your emotional energy early into the run or you will get exhausted and lose out on time too soon. 
 
 
 
 As you come to the end of the race, your mind struggles with the fatigue and exhaustion. This is when you need to psyche yourself — remind yourself that you are strong, recite mantras that egg you on, think of all the attention you will garner when you reach the finish line! Just do what it takes to not give up when you are a kilometre away from the finish line.
 
 
 Running 21 or 42 km is time consuming and you need to keep your mind busy to avoid boredom. Listen to music, play mental games or scout the scenery while running.
 
 
 
 “If you feel any kind of discomfort in the chest area, unusual shortness of breath, nausea or giddiness during the race, stop and take rest for a few minutes,” says Dr Nilesh Gautam, senior interventional cardiologist. Doctors say that one must seek medical help if the discomfort persists for more than a few minutes.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
