NAGPUR: Gone are the days when   was limited to only  's exploits on the court. She was the lone flag bearer and carried the Nagpur torch all over the world for almost a decade.

 Perhaps her outstanding performances on the national and international circuit inspired the last generation, which is now producing results with aplomb.
 
 Arundhati is now nearing the fag end of her career but she would be proud of the fact that she has left a pretty high standard for her other young city counterparts to follow.
 
 After Arundhati, Rasika Raje came to the fore and then it was steady flow of talented shuttlers which is keeping Nagpur always in the news as far as state and national-level tournaments are concerned. It began around five years ago and now it has reached the peak. The way a bunch of around twenty teenagers are performing now, it promises a lot for the future.
 
 If results on Saturday are any indication, then the local badminton fraternity can look forward to glorious days ahead in the years to come. At the Divisional Sports Complex in Mankapur, Nagpur shuttlers created history by bagging a record eight titles and couple of runners-up finishes.
 
 Far away from home, another city shuttler   achieved her biggest result at the international circuit by annexing a silver medal in the Lagos International Challenger tournament in Nigeria. Had the 18-year-old won the women's singles final against Sri Lanka's Thilini Pramodika Hendahewa, she would have been only the third city player after Arundhati and Ritika Thaker to win an international title.
 
 A couple of days ago, Nagpur district retained the U-17 team title during the State Junior Badminton Championship with utmost ease. Unfortunately, the home team could not retain the U-19 title as they lost to underdogs Mumbai Suburban 2-3 in an exciting summit clash.
 
 Last year at Nashik, Nagpur district had made a clean sweep by winning both the U-17 and U-19 team championships surprising Pune in the finals.
 
 Playing in front of the home crowd, Nagpur district teams were expected to win both the titles. A bit of disappointment in the team event was compensated in the individual events by the city shuttlers.
 
  extended her magical run to sweep both the U-17 and U-19 singles titles. Earlier this month at Karad, the 15-year-old supremely gifted player became the first girl in Maharashtra to win both the singles titles. Lightening struck twice in a month for the southpaw as she repeated the extraordinary feat in her own backyard.
 
 While Malvika was the star in singles, Ritika Thaker was unstoppable in the doubles. The regular doubles pair of Ritika and   (Mumbai Suburban) was stretched to its limits in the semifinals and finals but managed to grab both the titles. With this triumph, they once again proved that they are perhaps the best doubles pair in the entire state.
 
 Rohan Gurbani did not play the season's opening tournament at Parbhani last month but he made immediate impact by winning the U-17 boys singles title at Karad. 15-year-old Rohan, who now trains at the Prakash Padukone Academy in Bangalore, retained his title on Saturday in front of his parents and family members. He was one of the title contenders in the U-19 singles too but a narrow loss against Pune left-hander Rishabh Deshpande in the quarters shattered his hopes of twin titles.
 
 On the eve of the final day, Rashi Lambe was in line for a triple crown. However, it was a mixed day for her. She won the mixed doubles title with her Mumbai partner Akshan Shetty but lost the other two finals. She has improved leaps and bounds in one year and will go places if she keeps her focus.
 
 Ever since Sourabh Kerhalkar has decided to play only doubles, he has been producing brilliant results. His partnership with   (Mumbai Suburban) is looking solid and they are improving day by day. For the last two years, the pair of Sourabh and Deep is virtually unbeatable in the U-19 doubles in Maharashtra. They had a golden chance to win their maiden   title at Jodhpur early this month but they missed it by a whisker by losing in the final.
 
 By winning the U-17 boys doubles title with his partner Varun Kapur of Pune, city lad Sudhanshu Bhure gave ample proof that he is there with the leading group. He plays for just an hour daily as his parents are still not convinced that their talented son can make a career in badminton.
 
 Besides Malvika, Ritika, Rohan, Rashi and Sourabh, there are other players who have plenty of potential to shine in the years to come. Gaurav Mithe (runner-up in U-19 boys doubles), Arya Anchalwar, Samarjit Panday, Jaskaran Suri and   played well in the recently held state junior championship and can go places. 
 
 Maharashtra Badminton Association (MBA) president Arun Lakhani is very impressed with the way city shuttlers have been performing ever since he took the MBA charge in 2015. For further development, he is determined to provide the best of facilities to the upcoming players by launching a world-class badminton academy.
 
 "There is no doubt this region has lot of talent. We need to provide them right platform to train. After achieving a certain limit, several players migrate to big cities like Hyderabad, Bangalore or Mumbai for advanced training. We believe that if we can offer them the same facilities here then they can train in their own city. The Mankapur Sports Complex has the perfect infrastructure where we are planning to set up a state-of-the-art professional residential academy provided state government clears our proposal," said Lakhani. 
 
