THANE: With the possibilities of forest fires inching closer due to the early onset of summer this year, officials from   forest have started taking preventive steps to avoid such incidents in the future. From installing fire lines that run through 65 sq km of forest area to activating a 24x7 helpline number, the   has kick-started their preventive measures. 

 Yeoor range forest officer   said, "The entire area is demarcated with three to six meter wide forest lines. The dry grass along the 68-km long forest line has been burnt and ash has been placed in a grid format to isolate the other sections of the forest land. If one section of the forest goes up in flames then these lines will ensure that it does not spread to the other parts. This then gives us adequate time to reach the spot and douse the flames."
 
 "We usually start these forest activities later, but with summer almost here we decided go ahead with the measures now itself," Waghmode added.
 
 The department has also deployed a team of fire watchers who will keep a watchful eye from the three watch towers that have been installed 24x7 to decrease the response time.
 
 "It takes us half-an-hour to one hour to reach the spot as it is a hilly terrain and vehicles don't go inside. The faster we are alerted, the sooner we will be able to douse the flames," he said.
 
 Besides, the forest department has also reinforced the helpline number-1926- and has urged citizens to inform the officials about any incident in case of a fire.
 
 "The forest department's 24-hour helpline number can be used to not only report about any wild animal sighting, but also any forest fire cases. Often, citizens do not know how to inform the officials in case of an emergency. The team handling the helpline will immediately pass on the SOS to the closest range offices who will take immediate action. We cannot eliminate the occurrences of forest fires but we can speed up the rescue process," said  , chief conservator of forests, Thane forest department.
 
 We usually start these forest activities later, but with summer almost here we decided go ahead with the measures now itself. It takes us half-an-hour to one hour to reach the spot as it is a hilly terrain and vehicles don't go inside. The faster we are alerted, the sooner we will be able to douse the flames
 
 We usually start these forest activities later, but with summer almost here we decided go ahead with the measures now itself. It takes us half-an-hour to one hour to reach the spot as it is a hilly terrain and vehicles don't go inside. The faster we are alerted, the sooner we will be able to douse the flames
 
 
