Pune: A runaway hit since its introduction in June 2016, the   at   will soon have a   script to attract visitors from other states. 

 In the past 10 months, the laser show has seen a footfall of over 40,000 people and civic body mopped up Rs 20 lakh through sale of tickets. Buoyed by the response, the authorities are introducing the Hindi version of the show from next week.
 
 Built in the 17the century on the banks of the Mutha, Shaniwarwada continues to be major attraction for visitors because of its close association with the Peshwas. 
 
 Last year, the civic body started the light and sound show to reach out to more visitors by attracting them to the history of Shaniwarwada and its significance during the Peshwe rule. Two shows are scheduled across the week, barring Tuesday, every evening. But there was no Hindi and English version.
 
 “There was a demand from visitors for shows in Hindi and English. The authorities were working on the proposals. The Hindi script is ready. The shows are likely from next week,” an official said. 
 
 The trial run and technical preparations for the Hindi show have started and are expected to be over in a few days.
 
 Officials said the Marathi show has so far received encouraging appreciation. Barring a few days in the last monsoon, the show has been running without any interruption. Visitors, including school children from across the state attend the shows in large numbers. “Many visitors suggested introduction of the Hindi version to increase its reach,” the official said.
 
 Sources said the English version of the show will be introduced within a few months. A proposal for funds approval from the general body of the Pune Municipal Corporation has been tabled. A source said the approval is expected in a couple of months. 
 
 Sanket Shah, who recently visited the city, said Pune has a huge population of people from other states. “For this segment, the administration needs to display information at tourist and historic places in Hindi and English,” he said.
 
 Vijay Sawale, who is preparing for competitive examinations, said Pune has many historic places that can developed in to thriving tourist spots. “For this, sustained efforts are needed to start visitor-friendly services,” he said.
 
 
