KOZHIKODE: The election posters designed for E Ahamed during the last   in Malappuram stood out for the use of photographs showing his close bonds with over a dozen Gulf and Arab heads of state. 

 Though used as election campaign material, the images of Ahamed rubbing shoulders with leaders ranging from late Saudi monarch King Abdullah to Dubai ruler Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum and former Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad were testimony of his statesmanship.
 
 During his 25-year-long stint as a member of Lok Sabha, which also included his twin tenures as minister of state for external affairs, Ahamed had earned for himself the stature of an elder statesman. He displayed keen diplomatic prowess during many critical situations including crisis negotiations. 
 
 Successive central governments, including even non-Congress governments, had banked on Ahamed to strengthen the country's diplomatic relationships, especially with Arab countries. Over the years Ahamed was able to develop close proximity with many ruling families in the Gulf, which he utilised to make effective diplomatic interventions. 
 
 Ahamed's foray into the diplomatic arena took place when late Prime Minister Indira Gandhi asked him to become part of the trade and commerce delegation to GCC countries while serving as industries minister of Kerala in 1984. Later he grew to become the voice on India in various international fora as he shifted his focus to national politics following his election to   in 1991.
 
 He led the crisis management group formed to tackle the abduction of three Indians in Iraq in 2004 and was able to secure their release.
 
 Former Indian Ambassador to the UN, T P Sreenivasan said that late Prime Minister Narasimha Rao had insisted that Ahamed should represent India in the UN general assembly sessions during his tenure. And the logic of having a Muslim parliamentarian from India to counter Pakistan's attempts to rake up the Kashmir issue met with success. 
 
 "Ahamed's interventions had helped the country effectively counter the attempts by Pakistan to raise the Kashmir issue in the UN. He was able to send across the message that not a single Muslim in the country wanted any change in the status of Kashmir," said Sreenivasan, who had served as deputy permanent representative in the UN.
 
  He said Ahamed was an asset to the external affairs ministry. "He had a unique style of silent diplomacy and could get things done without making any show off," he added. 
 
 Ahamed represented India in the UN ten times between 1991 and 2014 apart from four   meetings and dozens of other diplomatic summits. His interventions with the Saudi government helped to double the Haj quota from 72,000 over the years. He travelled to Palestine many times to deliver India's aid including medicines and financial help. 
 
 
