Allahabad: After appointing the returning officer (RO) and the advisory committee for holding the next student union on its campus, the varsity authorities have declared the detailed schedule for AUSU polls. 

 Talking to media the RO Prof RK Singh elaborated the schedule for holding the next student union election (2017). He said that the form can be procured from several of the counters that would be opened at union hall on October 4 and 5 between 10 to 2 p.m. On the next day aspirants can file the nomination and submit the same at union hall between 9 to 2 PM and on the same day in the evening, the list of aspirant would be uploaded at a website.
  
 The date for withdrawing the names by the aspirants is October 7 and on the same date, aspirants can file the objection, if they have in terms of other candidates who have find the nomination papers. The tentative list would be uploaded along with the objections on October 8 and varsity authorities have kept Two days i.e. October 9 and 10 for scrutiny of forms and declaring the final list of the eligible candidates who would be contesting this year student election on various posts.
  
 October 11 is the date for qualifying speech which would be held between 12 to 3 pm from the ramparts of union hall. The candidates have been given October 12 and 13 for campaigning and polling would be held from 8:00 am to 12 noon on October 14. Universities will be making the arrangements of polling booth at the senate campus as well as the premises of women’s hostel.
  
 Counting of votes would start from 5 pm on the same date and will continue till the announcement of the results and the final list of the winner candidates will be uploaded on your website on the same night. October 15 is the date for oath taking ceremony of the winning candidate which would be held at the union hall at 11:00 in the morning.
 The RO has made it clear that   can take strict action if the candidates are found to flout the norms laid down under Lyngdoh committee recommendation. Prof Singh has also made it clear that all the candidates, fighting for the post of president, would be allowed to witness the counting which would be held in the central library premises.
 
