LITTIPARA: The widow of deceased MLA Anil Murmu speak in almost the same voice appealing for votes to carry on the good work of their husband. But what sets them apart is the colour of their parties.

 The   and the  , the two principal players in this by-election, are fighting tooth and nail to win this seat. The elder of the two widows, Murmu Uniki Eudora Hansda, has joined the BJP while Murmu’s second wife Nisha Shabnam Hansda has joined the JMM. 
 
 TOI caught up with Nisha when she had just returned home in the afternoon after a hard day’s work attending public meetings, sometimes even with the party patriarch, Shibu Soren, and canvassing in the remote areas of the constituency.
 
 Despite her earnest appeals and passionate exhortations at poll meetings, Nisha looked downcast giving the impression she is still in mourning. “My husband’s dreams are yet to be fulfilled. I have joined his party, the JMM, where he worked for the people till his last day. I have pledged to help the party realize all his dreams and take his legacy forward. I will ensure that his connection with the masses is not lost,” Nisha said. 
 
 Her appeals for support to the JMM have struck a chord with many in the region. Mangal Murmu, a resident of Amrapara, about 50 km from   town, a place where the deceased MLA is still treated like a messiah, said, “Nisha didi visited us recently. She told us that the JMM will complete the tasks taken up by her husband. Anil Murmu had worked and fought for us even before he became an MLA. Her words have reassured us.”
 
 Both Nisha and Uniki had vied for a ticket from the JMM. But when the party had opted for Simon Marandi, they had filed their nominations as Independent candidates. But their nominations were rejected by the   commission on technical grounds.
 
 At Durgapur near a ‘haat’, Uniki took centrestage beside BJP candidate Hemlal Murmu. Her appeal to the voters had a familiar ring to it. “Anil Murmu’s incomplete tasks will be completed by Hemlal Murmu. The JMM cheated me by not giving me a ticket to contest the bypoll. You should punish the party by voting for the BJP. I have lent my support to Hemlal because he is a good man and the BJP is the only option for you,” she said in Santhali. 
 
 Later, away from the tribal gathering, she told TOI, “Anilji was a social worker who spent his life working for the poor. He did not care for which party he belonged to. His sole purpose was to help the people. The tribals here still battle for their survival. The basic amenities are missing. Water, electricity, roads and education elude them. I have joined the BJP to help the party which has committed itself to develop the region. 
 
