VADODARA: Workers of   took out a rally on Friday to   their removal from the   of the automobile giant. Hundreds of workers walked from Mandvi to the district collector’s office and submitted a memorandum to him. The workers alleged that they have been trying to meet chief minister Vijay Rupani but he is not giving them appointment.

 “When Rupani was the labour minister he had said that he would look into our issues and promised that none of us would lose our jobs. But now he isn’t even ready to meet us. We will continue with our agitation till he agrees to meet us and solves our issues,” said Rachit Soni, president of General Motors Employees Union. 
 
 The GMEU also said that GM’s Halol plant is going to be taken over by a Chinese firm which is planning to manufacture cars from here. 
 
 “We have learnt about that the firm has purchased GM’s Halo plant. If the firm is going to make cars from this plant then why are the skilled workers here being sacked? The new firm can continue with present workers who have experience in manufacturing all kinds of cars,” Soni told TOI. 
 
 “Which company takes over another firm and sacks all the present employees? So many families are dependent on the workers here so the company should think about it,” he said and added that the workers are fasting as a mark of protest but they are still working at the manufacturing unit. 
 
 The GMEU has been at loggerheads with the GM management over compensation to the workers who have been removed. GMEU has stated that the workers were promised adequate compensation but the management offered them Rs 10 lakh. 
 
 The union is demanding Rs 32 to Rs 35 lakh for the workers. GM’s exit has come at a time when Gujarat has emerged as an auto hub with the likes of Tata Motors, Ford India and Honda Motorcycle and Scooter India Pvt Ltd (HMSI) already commissioning their manufacturing plants in Gujarat. 
 
 Suzuki Motor Corporation (SMC) is soon going to operationalize its plant, while HeroMoto Corp’s two-wheeler facility is under advance stage of development.
 
 
