RANCHI: JMM on Thursday described its victory in Littipara, its  , as a referendum on the Raghubar Das government’s policies and performance.

 JMM working president Hemant Soren said, “Despite using government machinery, BJP failed to win the seat because of its anti-tribal policies, which have been rejected by the masses.”
 
 He added, “Tribals and inhabitants of the state have rejected the amendments to the Chotanagpur Tenancy (CNT) and   (SPT) Acts. Since the voters have rejected his policies, the CM must step down on moral grounds.”
 
 Congress and Left parties, too, described BJP’s defeat in Littipara as ‘a failure of the Das government’.   president Sukhdeo Bhagat said, “We must congratulate JMM on its victory. It has been able to retain Littipara despite the misuse of government machinery to woo the voters.”
 
 On the other hand, BJP drew lot of satisfaction from the way it managed to reduce JMM’s victory margin and the increase in the saffron party’s vote share.
 
 JB Tubid, a BJP leader, said “JMM polled 46.39% votes this time as against 47.04% votes in the last general election. On the other hand, our party has increased its vote percentage from 29.48% to 37.26%.” He added, “This indicates how people have accepted our party and policies of the government.”
 
 Training its guns on Prime Minister  , CPM state secretariat member Prakash Viplab said, “BJP failed to make its mark in Littipara even though it used half of its cabinet ministers and announced a number of sops at the Prime Minister’s rally in Sahibganj three days before the election.” He added, “People have rejected BJP’s policy of handing over agricultural land to corporate houses and possible amendments of the CNT and SPT Acts.
 
 Giving full credit to JMM for BJP’s loss in Littipara, CPI-ML state secretary   said, “BJP’s poll percentage has increased slightly because JVM-P managed to shift its vote bank to the saffron party. But the voters made it clear that they don’t support the Das government.”
 
