Chandigarh: Hike in power tariff by the Haryana Electricity Regulatory Commission (HERC) has not gone down well with resident welfare associations (RWAs) and industrial bodies.

 The HERC had on Wednesday enhanced the electricity tariff between 25 paisa per unit to 50 paisa per unit for domestic, commercial and industrial sectors with effect from July 1.
 
 In May 2015, HERC had gone for 8% power tariff hike across the board. Thereafter the Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) had continued their protests for months outside the electricity department’s head office in Panchkula. Later, the Haryana BJP government in 2016 had twice reduced power tariff totaling 25 paisa per unit.
 
 Demanding a rollback of the hike, president of the Citizens’ Welfare Association Panchkula S K Nayar said, “There is no justification of burdening honest power consumers to recover their pending losses due to their own incompetence.”
 
 Nayar, who is also the special invitee member of HERC, informed that HERC has suffered over Rs 1,000-crore loss due to non-payment of bills by consumers, electricity theft, line losses and non-maintenance of distribution lines as well as transformers.
 
 “Being associated with HERC meetings, I can say there are more than 26% losses in distribution of power, 25% theft of electricity through kundi connections and about 37% non-payment of bills,” added Nayar.
 
 Vishnu Goyal, president of Haryana Chamber of Commerce and Industry, termed the power tariff hike unjustified which will burden the industries in Haryana which are already facing losses.
 
 “We had earlier raised the issue with the Haryana government and HERC to reduce power tariff. Rather than reducing, they have increased the charges which will hit the industries, especially the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME),” Goyal rued.
 
 He said if the government wants to cater to the weaker section of the society or the farmers or wants to recover its losses, the authorities should find some intelligent way out rather than burdening the other section of the society.
 
 Tarsem Garg, president of the Sector 7 RWA of Panchkula says their association would raise the issue with the HERC as well as the government to roll back the decision. “The government is only burdening those who are honestly paying electricity bills. They have failed to recover pending bills. They are so helpless that when they enter villages to check power theft, villagers attack them and they never return to that place,” said Garg.
 
 
