ALWAR: The body of an   was found burning on Tuesday morning near  .

 The incident took place on Tuesday morning when the villagers found that a body was up in flames, with bottles of petrol lying around the body .
 
 “We reached here at 6.20 am, and took the body into custody. We also found that there are bullet injuries on his head,“ said Surendra Kaviya, additional SP.
 
 The police managed to extinguish the flames and send the body for post-mortem.An additional team of FSL reached the spot to collect evidence of the incident.
 
 The injuries and blood spots indicate that person was killed somewhere else and that his body was dragged here to be dumped. “The body was found near the Malipura area in Deeg, which is near Uttar Pradesh. It is possible that the deceased was shot down here by criminals who later crossed into the neighbouring state,“ the police said.
 
 The villagers who were on their way to irrigate their farms first spotted the burning body and informed the police about the incident.“The body is charred beyond recognition, which has made it impossible for us to establish the victim's identity ,“ said the police.
 
 The police have rounded up three suspects in the case and have sent a team across several places to find the relatives of the deceased. “Deceased's wallet and other papers have also gotten burnt in the fire. We are asking police stations to check if there was any missing complaint filed about any youth, this would help us in identifying the victim,“ the police added.
 
 Miscreants kill man, disfigure face in city
 
 U nidentified assailants killed a25-year-old man and disfigured his face with a sharp weapon late on Monday night near Hasanpura area of the city.The victim, identified as Mohan Lal, was found dead near a vacant plot near Hasanpura. “He lived in kachi basti area in Hasanpura and worked as a daily wage labourer. He was missing from his house since Monday morning,“ cops said.Morning walkers in the area spotted his body and informed the police. When the PCR van reached the area, they found that victim's head was attacked with a sharp weapon in order to hide his identification.
 
 “There were multiple injuries on his body. There are signs of on his body. There are signs of struggle on upper parts of body which suggests that there were more than one assailant. He was killed somewhere else and body was dragged here,“ cops said.
 
 The cops at Sadar police station, who are investigating the case, added that the victim had moved from Bundi district to Jaipur a few years ago to search for employment.
 
 “His family was informed about the death of Mohan Lal.They said that he did not have any enemies. Though they have raised suspicion over some people who are being quizzed by the police to get more details about the case,“ police said.
 
 The cops have also found some documents from the pockets of the deceased and torn pieces of cloths which have been sent to forensic lab for further investigation. 
 
