 CHANDIGARH: The   (IMTECH), a premium laboratory of the   (CSIR), recently got a new director, Dr Anil Koul. Having worked for a mulination giant in pharmacy, consumer packaged goods, and medical devices in Belgium, Dr Koul had been involved in discovery and development of a new drug for treatment of drug-resistant tuberculosis (TB) — the first to be discovered in 40 years — called Bedaquline. The drug has been approved across the world including US, Europe and India. Dr Koul speaks exclusively to Shimona Kanwar about his roadmap for IMTECH in terms of research and development strategy.
 
 How to you plan to take your expertise of drug discovery and development further as director of IMTECH? 
 
 I have more than 16 years of experience in   and development field — right from discovery of new molecules in laboratory to going through phases of clinical testing, and eventual market approvals and bringing the drugs to patients. I have experience in both, small biotech companies and big multinational pharmaceutical environment. To be honest, I had my fair amount of luck in bringing Bedaquline from laboratory to patients. With this experience in industrial research, I believe I can bring lot of value to IMTECH. My goal for IMTECH is to bridge the gap between basic science programmes and clinical product development. However, considering all current challenges which CSIR is facing, we need to channelize the current open-ended research environment to more product and team-focused research linked to cutting-edge science.
 
 You have changed the mandate of IMTECH as #MISSION_IM@2020.What is it now? Why was the change required?
 
 There is a clear need to change focus of research as we want to bring value to our R&D set-up and focus on innovative products/solutions for poorest of poor. We have to work with the mantra that every rupee counts. 
 
 In our new mandate #MISSION_IM@2020, we have aimed to bring new drugs and technologies to the market with “disease-centric focus”. We have created discovery disease units. At present, we have narrowed our focus to disease area-specific (DAS) units — namely antibiotic discovery unit, virology disease unit, and human microbiome and metabolic/biopharmaceutical discovery unit. We want to pioneer the art of drug discovery for some of the neglected diseases and be the first to bring new drug approvals. We want to deprioritize areas which do not fit our mandate. At same time, we are revisiting our technology and service platforms and have created technology-platform units (TAP) in microbial collections or  
 
 What are other plans to improve R&D at IMTECH?
 
 We want to promote the “open-innovation model” for drug and technology development. For this, we can collaborate with industry partners, within the country and outside, and government-funded medical institutions. We are also building minimal preclinical research facilities to bring our products to the level of clinical testing. However, here we will rely mostly on external contract research organizations and other CSIR laboratories. We have also emphasized to synergize and seek input from medical and industry experts early on in a project before we invest any money in R&D. The idea is to bring in relevant stakeholders on a common platform. 
 
 
