GURUGRAM: The director of a city-based fashion institute was booked for allegedly failing to register students with the parent institute, thus making them ineligible to appear for exam, police said on Friday. 

 Rahul  , the director of Gurgaon branch of JD Institute of Fashion Technology, was later arrested after students filed a complaint at Civil Lines police station, alleging they were duped.
 
 Shalu, one of the students, said she had enrolled in the institute in October after paying Rs 96,000. “We have been asking for our admit card for the last few months, but have been receiving no reply from the institute authorities,” she said. “Finally, we went to the head office in Delhi’s Hauz Khas, where we were told the franchise in Gurgaon had not paid the fees,” she said.
 
 When they pursued the matter with  , one of the employees of the institute, students said, they were told that the registration process would be completed by March 31. However, no steps have been taken yet. The students then met Aggarwal, who is now on interim bail after police arrested him on Thursday. 
 
 Aggarwal, students alleged, assured them of paying the dues, but “didn’t do it” till April 4, following which they approached police.
 
  Kataria, another student who enrolled in the institute in November, had paid Rs 95,000 in cash to the institute. When she went to the head office in Hauz Khas, she found out that the payment had to be made through cheque or a demand draft, raising the suspicions that Aggarwal “pocketed the money”. Pushpa said “a few teachers quit, claiming they were not paid by Aggarwal”. “Now, the head office is asking us for the registration fee, which is around Rs 20,000. Why should we pay again?” she told TOI.
 
  RC Dalal, executive director, JD Institute Of Fashion Technology, Delhi, said, “We have initiated an internal inquiry. Strict action will be taken against those found guilty. All the students will be soon shifted to our Hauz Khas centre.”
 
  Aggarwal and Anila were booked under sections 406(criminal breach of trust) and 420(cheating).  , in-charge of Sector 14 police post, said Aggarwal was granted interim bail after he promised to pay the amount by the April 17.
 
