BENGALURU: A trained architect and researcher,   dedicated more than three decades in his life studying  , especially  . Author of more than 50 books, Michell was in Bengaluru to give a lecture on ‘The Mughals in the Deccan—Architecture in Daulatabad and Aurangabad’. He shared his views on conservation, importance of research, and the need for understanding landscapes with TOI. Excerpts: 

 
 
 
 There are specialists doing this job. Some monuments are very well kept, while others need a lot of work. It’s difficult to put in place the right policies of conservation sometimes and I understand it because, there are several challenges. In some cases, such sites are in private hands and there are issues like  . Given that there’s such a rich history and set of monuments, the process must be continuous.
 
 
 
 
 Anybody, who had been to Hampi, can understand the challenges it poses. There are so many monuments, some with the Archaeological Survey of India and some with the state department. Some are well maintained. People think conservation of individual monument is important, of course it is, but there must be care to protect the whole site. It’s important that the entire landscape of Hampi is preserved as it is part of an overall atmosphere that we go there to see. 
 
 
 
 In the west, there’s a lot of encouragement to understand this particular period and architecture. Not just Indians, even foreigners are being encouraged. But there aren’t too many scholars in this field. And, it’s time that changed. The Deccan architecture is a neglected subject as far as in-depth research goes. There aren’t too many people in India too.
 
 
 
 
 There’s no direct relationship. Conservation is a separate specialization. However, scholars can play a vital role in aiding conservation, as they will have specialized knowledge about particular monuments and sites. Given that each site needs to be preserved with an understanding of its history and architecture, scholars can be very handy if conservationists communicate with them.
 
