BENGALURU: “An IT company, a pub or a restaurant can come up right next door if the proposed draft zoning regulations are implemented. Do you want that? If not, meet your MLA/MP and send a strong message,” civic experts told the citizens on Saturday. 

 They were speaking at the meet organized by United Bengaluru and Citizens’ Action Forum to ‘Fight for What is Right’. A panel discussion was held to discuss the issues related to the draft regulations.
 
 V Ravichandar, civic expert, said: “A single yardstick for Bengaluru and a small city like Virajpet cannot be accepted. A single set of zoning regulations cannot be applied across all cities in   given the varied needs and growth rates. The master plan of the city is no longer supreme. A gazette notification overpowers the master plan of the city. This notification, if gazetted, will kill the local character of each localities and make the city look like north Korea.” 
 
 Vijayan Menon, RWA member from Koramangala, said: “Commercialization doesn’t come from Mars. It is caused by citizens only. As per the draft, the residential and commercial establishments can coexist, but in reality, we already have issues with the commercialization that has taken place. Every RWA has to reach out to the local MLA, MP and petition against the draft.” 
 
 Urging for more sensible rules, he said: “We are not saying no to commercialization. We do want certain facilities in residential areas. But we are against an IT company coming up next to our house. That should not happen.”
 
 “We are in the right side of the law when we oppose commercial establishments in residential areas. But now if the law itself changes, all the residents will be affected. The draft notification will only make more avenue roads across the city without understanding how the quality of life in Bengaluru would suffer,” said Sridhar Pabbisetty, CEO, Namma Bengaluru Foundation.
 
 According to architect Naresh Narasimhan, Bengaluru needs a servant’s plan and not a master plan. “We need a plan that can serve the people. Bengaluru Metropolitan Task Force, which has the powers to penalize law offenders, is like a Lokayukta within the BBMP. It has powers to enforce law and any case of violation in a residential area can be reported to BMTF. But the new regulations will change things,” said Naresh.
 
 Why no public consultation?
 
 Some residents wanted to know who prepared the draft notification without public consultation. The citizens have signed a letter to be sent to the directorate of the Town and Country Planning.
 
 “After continuous efforts we managed to stop the proposed steel flyover project and now this is happening. We need to know why such things are happening repeatedly,” said Priya Chetty Rajagopal of the Citizens for Bengaluru.
 
 Bhaskar Bhat, a RWA member from  , suggested that a film be made about the ill-effects of the draft regulations to create awareness among the common people. “Every citizen should be made to understand the impact of such regulations. The technical words may not be understood by all. Hence, a film can be made explaining the effects of such laws on our lives,” said Bhat.
 
