Coimbatore: At a time when the district is facing a drought-like situation and the people of Coimbatore are looking at ways to conserve and save water,   are fetching water from the city's water bodies and selling it to  . 

 A few days ago, a private water supplier in Kerala was caught stealing water from the   to supply it to a private brewery based in Kanjikode. When the media reported on this, supply to the company from Kerala was abruptly stopped as the region was facing a water scarcity. The brewery then turned to Coimbatore for water.
 
 Coimbatore's water situation is no different. Yet, private water suppliers are illegally fetching water from lakes and dams in the district and supplying it to the brewery.
 
 A video footage in the possession of TOI shows a truck (TAO 6066) supplying water to this brewery. When TOI called up the supplier -   water supply - an employee said, "We supply to a company in Kerala." Asked about the source of the water, the employee said, "We are drawing water from the   tank, filtering it using the reverse osmosis process and supplying it to the brewery. We supply two to three tanker loads of 24,000 litres every day."
 
 Pampa Nadhi employees also claimed that they sourced water from Athikadavu and have a bore well. "We have one plant at Singanallur and another at Pallapalayam," said the employee.
 
 A 24,000 litre load of water costs Rs7,000. And, according to Kerala media and private water suppliers, an average 20 such tankers are supplying water from Coimbatore to the brewery. This means, private water suppliers should be making about Rs1.5lakh every day.
 
 Another such supplier draws water illegally from the Aliyar Dam. TOI called the truck driver of Anbu and Co (TN 38 Z 9866) and asked for details. The driver said, "We draw the water from the Aliyar Dam through a pipe and store it in a private tank. This water is supplied to the brewery."
 
 Coimbatore has been facing water scarcity for the past few months, and while there have been concerns over meeting water demands during the summer, private water suppliers are selling water to private breweries. 
 
 Selling water is not illegal, but, stealing water from the city's water bodies and supplying it to industries in Kerala is causing considerable concern among people in the district.
 
