RANCHI: More than 8,000 morning walkers, school and college students and elderly people were seen occupying the entire stretch of the main road—from Jaipal Singh stadium till Sarjana Chowk—on the second Raahgiri Sunday of the year.

 The participants were seen indulging in various street activities from 6am to 8.30pm. The activities included cycling, skating, tug-of-war, yoga. Students also helped in conveying the messagesof following traffic rules through their creativity.
 
 The first   was observed on March 27. Raahgiri is a joint collaboration of   (RMC), the district administration and  , in association with the World Resource Institute (WRI), an organization which started Raahgiri in Gurgaon. 
 
 While some were interested in sports activities, others, associated with the Jharkhand Film and Theatre Academy performed a street play titled Khamoshi Kab Tak.
 
 Rajiv Sinha, in charge of the academy said, people these days hardly step forward to help people. In instances where local youths molest a girl, onlookers make a vidoe snd post it on social media instead of protecting the victim. We tried to depict the indifference of people through our play. This attitude should change and people should refrain from using social media to make such episodes public."
 
 Other than the strong message of the street play, there were different types of games and a performance by local band- Strings. We are promoting cycling and walking on the city roads for our participants this year, which was not possible last year," said Rishabh Anand, secretary of RiseUp, an organization which is supporting Raahgiri.
 
 Anand said last year, Raahgiri was observed for 16 weeks. “This year we will continue as per the directions of urban development minister C.P Singh." 
 
 When he was asked why Raahgiri season I was shelved, he said, "Cases of eve-teasing increased last year due to which we had to stop it abruptly. This year we have full protection from police and local administration." Raahgiri is being organized in 40 cites across India.
 
