GHAZIABAD:   was looking forward to a visit to Australia, where an assignment was to take her soon. Vishal Singh needed a job. He had just got engaged and the wedding was round the corner. Sanjiv Bhatt was toiling late into the night because he had a new member coming into his family: his wife was expecting their second child.

 On Friday night, the three found themselves thrown together in an auto in Indirapuram. In the back seat were Rinky and her family friends from Kanpur — Vishal (25) and his older cousin Yajuvendra (40), a businessman who had accompanied his brother to Kanpur. Sanjiv was driving, taking the three of them to Rinky’s flat at Sector 12 in Noida.
 
 It was to be their final journey. On the   road, around 12.15 am on Saturday, an Audi crashed head-on into the auto at high speed. All four died on the spot.
 
  
  Sanjiv’s wife Madhu had woken up around 1 am. She called his cellphone when she found he hadn’t returned. Someone else answered the call. The voice on the other end asked if there was any male member of the family around. Madhu took the phone to her brother-in-law Sudish who lives next door in Khoda.
 
 “It was a police officer on the phone. He told me Sanjiv had died in an accident,” said Sudish. “I was too shocked to react. I struggled to break the news to Madhu, who is seven months pregnant. But I had to. She collapsed to the ground,” Sudish said on Saturday evening. Sanjiv was just 25 and the family depended on his income. He had shifted with Madhu to Khoda from Etah three years ago.
 
  
  Rinky had come to Noida from Kanpur and landed a job with HCL. “She was so happy when I spoke to her some time back. She was planning to go to Australia on an assignment,” said Subash Chandra, her brother-in-law. Rinky worked at HCL’s Sector 125 office and lived in a rented flat.
 
  
  Vishal, meanwhile, had completed his BTech and, with Rinky’s help, had some job interviews in Noida lined up. “He was engaged. The wedding date had not been fixed but we were all preparing for it,” said Narender Singh, Vishal and Yajuvendra’s uncle. “Our family is devastated. We have lost two children,” he said, standing outside the mortuary where he had come to collect their bodies.
 
  
  
