BENGALURU: The Ola cab driver who allegedly molested a woman passenger last week in southeast Bengaluru was driving the vehicle after faking the identity of the original driver-partner assigned to run the trip. The incident has brought up questions of grave security lapses in the operation of radio-hailing taxis. 

 The accused,  , 25, from Madhya Pradesh and a resident of BTM Layout, was arrested on Tuesday and slapped with impersonation charges, besides IPC Section 354 (outraging the modesty of woman). The cab owner, Navin Rajput, has also been arrested. Ola refused to offer comments "for now".
 
 Police said they are investigating Ola authorities over alleged attempts by the accused to destroy evidence. 
 
 The woman, a professional singer returning to her Begur home from a karaoke event in Koramangala, lodged a complaint with   police on Saturday, alleging that the Ola cab driver molested her after taking her to an isolated location, off  , in the early hours of April 28.
 
 Acting on her complaint, police picked up Ravi Kumar, Ola's driver-partner for the car. Ravi Kumar denied his involvement, saying he had not been driving the cab from February and a person named Imran Khan was driving the cab in his place. Police went on the trail of the cab owner, Navin Rajput, from   and a BTM Layout resident.
 
 After he was picked up by police, Rajput led them to his driver, Imran Khan.
 
 "Imran Khan, the driver of the Ola cab, is arrested for the offences of molestation and impersonation. Navin Rajput is arrested for abetment of impersonation and destruction of evidence," Hemanth Nimbalkar, additional commissioner of police (east), said.
 
 According to police officials, Rajput employed Imran and used the log-in details of Ravi Kumar to run the Ola cab, abetting Imran's offence of impersonating Ravi Kumar.
 
 "After the incident, Rajput and Imran went to Ola office and erased the details of Ravi Kumar and substituted it with some other name. Investigation is on with respect to the destruction of evidence. The involvement of Ola authorities is being examined and investigated," Nimbalkar said.
 
 A mobile phone and the car used in the offence were seized by the police.
 
