NEW DELHI: The   of a doctor by members of a criminal gang who managed to get registered with cab aggregator   and successfully pulled off the crime without the cops getting alerted in real time has raised concerns about   of  . Cab aggregators, including Ola, have various security features in place but these didn’t prove to be enough.

 Besides scrutinising why the system didn’t work, the police are also likely to take action, particularly against a third-party verification team, for violations after all the kidnappers are arrested, said a senior cop on Friday. The vendor who verified the cab driver involved in the crime has been traced to west Delhi and detained for questioning, he added.
 
 The third party vendor has been identified as one Ansari who charged a commission of Rs 4,500. The police have found that the chassis and engine numbers are not verified and the vendor verifies only the registration number. In this case, the accused driver, Sushil, had got the WagonR registered without bringing the vehicle in. The criminals were also careful enough to use only the number which they had registered with Ola to communicate with the vendor and not their other personal numbers.
 
 The delay in informing the cops after the cab went off the radar is being investigated as the police say they should have been alerted immediately. The driver had changed course and switched off his phone and GPS soon after the doctor boarded the cab. 
 
 An initial probe has revealed that their call centre in Bangalore alerted their Gurgaon team which in turn informed the local cops. But the information reached the Delhi cops later in the day when the ransom call had already been received, the police have confirmed. 
 
 On July 6 — the day Dr Srikanth Goud was kidnapped — the driver had rejected three passengers after confirming their bookings. He had called them up from his personal phone and asked them whether they were travelling alone. When he found out that there were more people, he had cancelled the bookings. This should have made the cab service provider suspicious, said an officer. 
 
 Significantly, the photograph of the driver did not match with the one he had submitted. It was found that the registration certificate of the vehicle had the photograph of Anuj while it was being registered by Sushil.
 
 In the case of rape of a woman involving another cab aggregator, the police had registered two FIRs — one pertaining to the crime and the other related to such violations. In this case, they are taking time to act as the operation is not over yet, said another officer.
 
 Ola remained tightlipped and didn’t comment despite TOI sending them a questionnaire.
 
 The police are probing how the kidnappers were able to register with Ola using forged documents despite being blacklisted in the past. Sushil and his brother, Anuj, had tried to register the Wagon R car thrice using different forged identity cards but were rejected by the Ola platform.
 
 The police say the driver was also able to ferry passengers even while the verification process was on. This, however, is the norm since the verification takes a week or so to be completed.
 
 
