LUCKNOW: With all three ambitious missions of Centre for urban India entering their third year, the UP government allocated generously for the   (Rs 1,500 cr), Swachh Bharat (Rs 1,000 cr) and   (Rs 2,000 crore) respectively. 

 UP has maximum representation under Smart City Mission ( ) with seven cities already in fray namely — Lucknow, Kanpur, Agra, Varanasi, Allahabad, Aligarh and Jhansi. The remaining six cities waiting for the tag are — Saharanpur, Bareilly, Ghaziabad, Rampur, Meerut and Rae Bareli. 
 
 Hence the outlay of Rs 1500 crore is in anticipation of all 13 cities getting selected by the final round. Under the mission, the Centre aims at providing a better lifestyle to citizens through economic development, improved infrastructure, e-governance and citizen services, waste management, sufficient water supply with minimum leakage and advanced mobility options. The Centre has already selected total 90 cities till date. 
 
 Under Swachh Bharat, municipal corporations have been getting plenty of funds to construct individual and community toilets in past two years, but FY 2017-18’s   in UP’s   for cleanliness is way more than earlier Rs 1,000 crore. This would mainly focus on making most cities defecation-free by 2017 end and constructing maximum number of toilets and improvising waste management infrastructure in cities. 
 
 Under AMRUT, UP’s 61 districts would benefit from sewerage and waste supply connections. The government has allocated Rs 2,000 crore for it. Many cities of UP like Varanasi, Kanpur, Allahabad, Azamgarh, Agra that received basic infrastructure of sewerage and supply system under earlier scheme of JNNURM could not benefit from it because there was no fund to connect these pipelines with households. These districts will benefit under AMRUT’s funding. 
 
 
 
 Rs 1500 crore allocated under Smart City Mission for 13 cities 
 
 Rs 1000 crore for Swachh Bharat Mission to make most cities ODF by 2017 end
 
 AMRUT provides Rs 2000 crore to give supply and sewerage connections to 61 districts
 
 UP has maximum representation in Smart City Survey, to represent 13 cities
 
 
