

 
 
 A: It really doesn’t. This country (America), since 1776, has moved forward in a way that no one thought possible. We had the Civil War, two World Wars, and a  . We have been through epidemics and all kinds of things, and it always works out. I have no doubt about either the future of America, or the future of the world.
 
 
 
 
 A:We lived in a divided world before. (In my lifetime) there have been huge conflicts around the world and my dad, who was a Republican Congressman, thought after the Democrats won there would never be another election. All my life I have heard these terrible things that didn’t happen, and here I am 86 and all kinds of good things have happened.
 
 
 
 
 A: Markets reflect people’s opinions and emotions, and eventually facts. My boss used to say, in the short run the market is a voting machine and in the long run it’s a weighing machine. I paid some attention to the market but what I really pay attention to is the businesses that we own, or can potentially own. When we own shares or stocks, we don’t think of owning them as just little stocks; we think we are owning parts of businesses, and the truth is you can buy a lot of very wonderful businesses. You may pay out somewhat more for them compared to what you would have paid a few years ago, but (if) you hold them, you’re going to do fine.
 
 
 
 A: It is true it is a very long bull market. It was a very severe bear market before...and that was unusual…it may have taken a long number of years to fully recover from that, but I wouldn’t worry about it. If you buy into a good business — let’s say you buy a private business, a very good one — you are not going to look at it and see whether the markets went up or not the next day. What makes a difference is how the business does over a period of time. It is nice to buy them during a bear market, but if you try and jump in and out of markets I don’t think you are going to do very well. I have never been able to do well that way.
 
 
 
 
 A: To be honest, I don’t like travel much. I have never been to Russia; never been to many places. I have only been to the south of the equator twice. If you tell me (about) a wonderful company in India that might be available for sale, I will be there tomorrow. You don’t have to worry about that. I will hop on a plane…
 
 
 
 A: I think a lot is happening, and it’s good. I think the potential for India is incredible. When I met   in 1991, I said if you could hire from only one university in the world, which one would it be, and he said IIT. And then, the most valuable person at Berkshire underis  . He has got a brother in India and I keep trying to bring him over. I wrote to his (Jain’s) parents, and I said if you’ve got another one, send him to me. It’s astounding, the number of brilliant people that I know from India. I would love to hire people, I would love to buy a business, but it has to be a big business to move the needle at Berkshire.
 
 
 
 A: Sure, it could. Like I say, I will be there tomorrow if you can tell me about a big business, a good business that might be for sale to us.
 
 
 
 
 A: Logically, India should be on top of the list as it is such a big market. I (will) just call up Ajit and ask him for a little background on whatever I am going to do, and I will go right out to the airport and get into the plane.
 
 
 
 A: The latter is what I would prefer. That is what I am trying to do at Berkshire: that’s true, whether it is India or   or any place elsewhere. 
 
 
 
 
 A: It is huge; it is enormous. Market is one thing, but beyond that you can’t have a billion people and not be important in this world. The better the things develop in India, the better it is for United States. That is not exclusive to India; I would say that about other countries. There is so much opportunity in the world and there’s so much brainpower in India. You’re dealing with very, very, smart people, but you take somebody like Ajit (Jain), I wonder what he would have done if he stayed in India. Guaranteed he would have a large corp. So India’s got a terrific future.
 
 
 
 
 A: We do some business there, and Ajit (Jain) does that so I don’t really know the details that much. But, again, it’s a huge market and certainly Ajit should understand it very well. People are always going to need insurance. Sometimes there have been restrictive laws in terms of the percentage that we can own, and that’s a disadvantage. We would like to own 100% in any businesses that we run.
 
 
 
 
 A: Ajit is doing something that he loves doing. He’s absolutely indispensable at Berkshire. Insurance is the most important part of Berkshire and he does an amazing number of things for us right now. I have always said that if Ajit and I are both drowning, and the shareholders can only save one of us, they should swim towards Ajit.
 
 
 
 A: It was easier to invest in the 1950s and there was less competition. It is nice to have fewer competitors. Even in 1950, mentally and psychologically to some extent United States was still coming out of the Great Depression and people’s ideas were formed by that. So they were looking at things with a pessimistic eye. But I didn’t feel that way, so I had an advantage. That doesn’t exist now. Now I am competing against great and many smart people who learnt a lot, study what we do and who are optimistic about the country’s wealth. So it is a tougher game now. In the end, I would love to do it all over again.
 
 
 
 
 A: The truth is, if you are very rich the world has probably been pretty good to you. You wouldn’t have had it except for the fact that there are millions and billions of people in this world and 98% or 99% have not been as lucky as you. They will get diseases that you avoid because you could afford better healthcare and all kinds of things. If you have everything you wanted in life and if you have a lot of surplus left over, why not help out the people who have helped you? You have a different luck when you earn more. I call it ‘ovarian lottery’. It seems just crazy to me not to share it with people who haven’t had good luck.
 
 
 
 
 A: I don’t know what the Fed will do, but I have been amazed by how long low interest rates prevailed, particularly in Europe as well as the United States. To some extent, we can’t get too far away from here. If in Europe, Draghi wants to keep them very, very low, it makes it harder for Janet Yellen to open up some enormously wide gap. I will say this again, I don’t know what the Fed is going to do. But I do know that if I get offered a good business tomorrow at a sensible price, I don’t care what she (Yellen) does, because I am going to own it for five years or 10 years, and then people will be talking about a different Fed.
 
 
 
 
 A: Low interest rate level means you choose between putting your money out at very, very, very low rates, or you choose to buy common equities, or you choose to buy real estate, or maybe you choose to buy a farm. Lower the interest rates are, the more you are tempted to buy other assets and I prefer to buy businesses. I like to own 100% of them and I also like to own 5% or 10% of a good business, and I do not want to buy bonds.
 
 
