PATNA: With rise in footfall of passengers, railways has decided to give a facelift to  . Apart from developing a second entry-cum-exit point at the southern end of the station, the railways will also provide more amenities to the station, Danapur divisional railway manager (DRM)   said on Friday.

 The DRM said a new platform is being built close to platform number 1 exclusively for passenger trains running up to Patliputra and Digha. The new platform will accommodate 24 coaches of passenger trains, he said.
 
 “Railways will ensure that this grand old station is equipped with all kinds of amenities for passengers. Coach indication display boards are also being installed at the station for the convenience of passengers,” he said. 
 
 The second entry point at the southern end of the station will also have   (PRS) and booking counters. “If everything goes well, construction work for the second entry point will be completed by March end,” he said, adding that a new parcel office is also being developed at the station.
 
 Jha said over six mail and express trains originate from Danapur station daily and 260 passenger trains pass through it. Two important trains – Patna-Bangalore Sanghmitra Express and   – will now originate from Danapur station instead of Patliputra station from March 1 this year. 
 
 “Railways is building a refreshment room and two retiring rooms at Danapur station for passengers’ convenience. A spacious waiting hall for sleeper class passengers has already been constructed and the railway enquiry system has been updated,” the DRM said, adding the first and second class waiting rooms would also be renovated. 
 
 “The   has sanctioned a sum of Rs 26.62 crore for providing more amenities at Ara station. The station building will be developed as a model station. While lift and escalator have been approved for Ara station, railways will build a washing pit at the station for proper maintenance of passenger train rakes in the yard. Railways will also develop circulating area of Ara station by removing encroachments from the entrance point,” Jha said. 
 
