It is well established that regular practice of yoga can help reduce levels of stress, enhance mobility, lower   and improve overall wellbeing. Because of these benefits, health experts believe that yoga also helps in improving diabetes and protects against other related medical conditions such as heart disease. As a result, an increasing number of people with diabetes are practicing yoga in an effort to keep their condition under control and improve overall quality of life. And, many people who practice yoga on regular basis have experienced improvements in their mental and physical health. 

 Yoga has emerged as a promising, cost-effective option in the treatment and prevention of diabetes. Several studies have suggested that yoga can reduce stress-related hyperglycemia and has a positive effect on blood glucose control. For diabetes management, controlling mental stress (stress management) is one of the keys. Under stressed condition, your blood sugar level increasesand this high blood sugar levelelevates the chances of serious complications such as heart disease.Using controlled breathing techniques, meditation and body postures, yoga and other mindfulness-based programshelps you to relax. This also helps your body to regulate stress hormones that increases blood pressure and  , both play a big role in onset of type 2 diabetes.
 
 Practicing yoga also helps in rejuvenating pancreatic cells, exercising the muscles, promoting weight loss and improving your mental attitude, which ultimately helps in diabetes management. Yogaasanas (posture) stretch the pancreas, which can stimulate the production of insulin-producing beta cells. Yoga, like other forms of exercises, increases glucose uptake by muscular cells that helps to lower blood sugar levels, improves circulation and reduces the risk of cardiovascular disease. Performing   also aids in weight control, which is again important for protecting against conditions such as type 2 diabetes, cancer and heart disease. Regular yoga practice can help to focus the mind and create the right mental approach to deal with diabetes.
 
 Practicing yoga is good for overall improvement of your health, especially diabetes management. However, do consult your doctor before starting any yoga classes and get benefits of this Indian traditional therapy.
 
 
 
 
