PANAJI: The state government has told the Union human resource development (HRD) ministry officials that   (SHG) stop supplying meals if any action is taken against them following complaints from schools over the quality/quantity of food supplied by them. This was stated during the midday meal scheme’s review for 2016-17 that took place on March 8.
 
  The state also informed HRD officials that internal disputes between SHGs is also an issue in the smooth implementation of the scheme.
  
  
  “Groups are reluctant to supply   if strict action like imposing a fine is taken,” directorate of   have told HRD officials at the meeting that took place in New Delhi.
  
  It is probably because of this hostile attitude that the state government has not blacklisted even one SHG responsible for supplying contaminated meals, even though six cases of children being taking ill after consuming midday meals have been reported in Goa since June 2013.
  
  The HRD has noted that the Goa government on its parts puts in more than its prescribed share to provide better midday meals.
  
  The state has provided midday meals at a cost of Rs 5.71 per meal per day for the primary school level and at Rs 6.79 per meal per day for the upper primary school level, up to August 2016. From September 2016 the meal rates were revised to Rs 6.11 for the primary level and Rs 7.26 for the upper primary level.
  
  However, the HRD observed during the review that Goa, as usual, fell short in monitoring the scheme.
  
  “Against the allocation of Rs 60 lakh as central assistance towards MME (midday meal monitoring and evaluation) funds, the state has utilized only Rs15.52 lakh (26%),” the project approval board said, as per the minutes of the meeting.
  
   , 1,43,135 students from 1,501 government, government-aided and special schools from Classes I to VIII are served midday meals across Goa. The state has engaged 109 SHGs to supply midday meals in schools across the state.
  
  From late last year, the menu was altered by the directorate of education to include chapati in the meals and pao was replaced with poli. Serving of pulao was scrapped and vegetarian dishes prepared from pulses and cereals were served to increase the nutritional value of the meals.
