KOLHAPUR: Every shop, mall and   using plastic carry bags will now have to pay Rs 4,000 per month to the   ( ).

 The KMC has decided to initiate the implementation of Plastic Waste Management Rules, 2016 drafted by the  . The health department is going to table a proposal to initiate the implementation and form rules in the general body meeting scheduled to take place on March 20.
 
 As per the proposal, the shopkeepers and street vendors who are willing to provide plastic carry bags for dispensing any commodity should register with the KMC.
 
 Vijay Patil, chief sanitation inspector of the KMC, said, “The central government has asked civic bodies to draft bylaws for implementation of the rules. We are going to get the establishments registered by charging Rs 4,000 per month. The charges will be called plastic waste management fees and we will then issue authorised annual license to the shop owners. The intention behind the decision is that the shop owners should stop keeping plastic carry bags or charge the customers for the carry bags. The amount generated through the fees will be utilised for recycling plastic waste.”
 
 The KMC has also undertaken a drive to seize plastic carry bags from the shop owners. The government has increased the thickness of carry bags from 40 microns to 50 microns. This will increase the cost and the tendency of the shop owners to provide free carry bags will reduce.
 
 Since the last two weeks, the KMC has recovered plastic carry bags weighing over 100 kg and have recovered a fine of over Rs 1.5 lakh from the shop owners. The drive has been taken to get rid of plastic waste which once mixed with regular garbage gets difficult to process. It also leads to frequent incidents of choking of drains and is one of the major causes of flooding during monsoon.
 
 “The Centre has asked that the minimum fee should be Rs 4,000 and it may be raised depending on the case. The fee may be decided depending upon the production or the sale capacity of a particular establishment. The shopkeepers have to display boards on their premise stating that customers will have to pay for plastic carry bags. We have been asked to use the funds exclusively for developing processing units to recycle plastic to pellets, oil or for use in construction of road,” said Patil. 
 
