JAIPUR: The   (AIKS), Rajasthan, has strongly protested the brutal killing of a dairy farmer at Alwar by Hindutva extremists. 

 "Pehlu Khan, a small dairy farmer from Nuh tehsil of   in Haryana, was on his way home after buying a milch cow from a festival at Jaipur along with his children and other villagers when they were stopped by Hindutva extremists at Alwar and badly beaten up. He died later in the hospital. The Muslim community of Mewat region of Haryana to which Pehlu Khan and others belong are traditionally peasants, agriculturalists and cattle breeders."
 
 "Instead of taking action against the killers, the BJP-led Vasundhara Raje government has filed an FIR against the dead farmer and his children making false accusations. The FIR states total falsehood that there was no evidence for purchasing the cow despite the family possessing receipt of the purchase, with the stamp of the   (JMC). AIKS condemns the BJP-ruled state government for publicly defending the criminals and targeting the victims and seeking to create an impression that the killers were trying to enforce law," AIKS said in a press release.
 
 The organization condemned the deterioration of the law and order situation in the country, and the leadership of BJP and   for dragging the country towards anarchy and lawlessness with an eye on dividing the people for political gain.
 
 "Sangh Pariwar organisations are consistently unleashing violence by raking up sensitive issues like ban on cow slaughter and beef eating, especially after Narendra Modi government assumed power. The murder of   in Dadri, Uttar Pradesh, and lynching of two persons, including a child, to death and hanging them on the wayside tree near Hazaribagh in Jharkhand, killing of a truck driver in Jammu as well as attacks on Dalits in Una and elsewhere are few incidents to recall. These incidents which are continuing unabated and the mushrooming of illegal armed vigilante groups remind of barbarism under Taliban or   and all democratic forces have to unite and stand opposed to such reactionary forces," the release said, calling on Prime Minister Modi and chief minister Raje to assure minorities and condemn the attacks on innocent people.
 
