There’s a revolution brewing, people. Quite literally, we mean. For the good ol’ coffee that wakes you up and gives you a kick-start for the day, has gone ahead of being just a pick-me-up. Among the experiments that include a charged-up bulletproof coffee, fusion coffee cocktails, well-known chef Heston Blumenthal has cooked lobster in a coffee percolator resulting in a lobstercino, and in Mumbai, folks have been painting with it, too! If all you knew about the brew was latte or espresso, it’s time to up your game. With   on October 1, here’s a look at different trends that have been developing…

 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 We’ve all heard of green tea, and it has a successor now! The new health fix is green coffee. Made from green coffee beans (that haven’t been roasted yet), this brew is said to have antioxidants that induce weight loss by decreasing the absorption of fat and glucose in the gut. It is also supposed to lower insulin levels, which in turn aids the metabolic function. This coffee went viral after it was mentioned on a popular show and singer Katy Perry and actress Demi Moore are reported to have tried green-coffee extract for weight loss. Ready to sip on it at your work desk?
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Your grandma’s coffee has undergone a makeover and how! There’s now a whole universe of coffee snobs out there when it comes to the java fix, thanks to fancy coffee-based desserts. The next time you dine out and have a cheese risotto, don’t be surprised if the chef suggests a medium roast to go with it.   and   are replacing the regular cappuccino last year, the ‘coffee in a cone’ trend swept South Africa. Of course, there is a specific time frame in which to consume it, before the cone melts completely! And coffee mocktails got ranked among the top food trends this year. Apt to rev up the party, they’re served with a shot of caffeine,  , cream and a chocolate. 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 In an offbeat, yet fun trend that’s catching up, city folks are painting with not acrylic or water colours, but coffee. The result is beautiful monochromatic, sepia-toned art in shades of brown. Organiser Snehal Patil, says, “Painting with coffee is easy as the brew is almost transparent. You keep layering with it as it dries. It’s like using watercolours; once you understand the shade or tonality of coffee, it’s a delight to paint with. The result is a sepia-mode painting that has a quaint, old-world charm to it. It’s also an olfactory experience as coffee pleases all the senses.”
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 Yes, that’s right. The experimentation is also transcending coffee into a ‘bulletproof’ version. This isn’t a term out of a movie. It’s as real as it gets and it’s an invention by tech entrepreneur   from the  . He combined coffee with butter, after being inspired by the Tibetan yak butter tea. The new version is said to ignite energy and give millennials a power-up in the day. Longing for it, already?
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 Never thought coffee would have a degree of snobbery attached to it? Think again. Members-only coffee bars and clubs are becoming the new fine dine establishments across the world. It’s where the coffee-loving frat meets to sip on rare brews and tuck into pastry and biscotti. London has got its first private coffee club and specialty coffee spaces have also taken off in cities in the US and Australia. Think roasted chicory served with organic brown sugar and amuse bouche bitter coffee cupcakes. Yes, please!
 
 
 
 
  
  
 Forget swiping right for love. Instead, sip on the some coffee — as the brew is playing Cupid, too! A Mumbai-based bespoke matchmaking service has come up with coffee dating, that sets up curated dates over a cup of the java. Naina Hiranandani, one of team’s founding members, says, “We realised coffee is the best way for two people to get to know each other as they may not be as comfy bonding over a three-course meal. The drink stands for relaxation, too. Mumbai also has a great coffee culture which also helps when it comes to a dating scenario.” In a busy city like ours, where people are particular about investing time and effort when it comes to meeting someone new, looks like coffee plays an apt catalyst, where you can finish the cup and walk away or take things forward.
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 India produces the world’s most expensive coffee As per a report, India has started producing the world’s most-expensive coffee in  , Karnataka, made from the poop of the   cat. It is said to fetch close to Rs 20,000–25,000 per kg abroad and is expensive owing to the method in which it is produced. The beans are digested by the cat, the enzymes in its stomach enhance the bean flavour and then its faeces are collected and processed. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
