New Delhi: Two days after a five-year-old girl was murdered after being sexually abused, TOI was able to put together the sequence of events on the basis of accounts given by an eyewitness and the victim’s family. 

 The neighbours had informed the police about the crime, but the girl’s father came to know of it only when he returned home for lunch on Thursday. “My wife fainted as soon as she saw me. I was shattered when our neighbours told me that me that my daughter’s body had been found in a hole around 30 metres from our home,” said the father. 
 
 A three-year-old eyewitness provided more details. He had been playing with the girl when the juvenile accused of the crime approached them. “The accused had acted very friendly to us for the past week,” the little boy narrated. “As he did every day, he came to us when we were playing and handed us Rs 5 and Rs 10 notes. He held us by our hands and took us to his room. There he asked me to wait while he said he would take the girl to another place to bring more money.”
 
 The tot waited for a while, but when he heard the girl crying for help, he ran towards the voice. “The accused had gagged her and was touching her everywhere,” the boy continued. “She was struggling to free herself. I started to panic. But before I could do anything, he crushed her head with a gattu (concrete slab).” The boy saw the juvenile drag the girl’s body into a hole he had dug in the kitchen of the  . While he was covering her body with a sack, the boy rushed out to inform the girl’s mother. 
 
 A neighbour said he heard the boy screaming for the victim’s mother, and some of the people around ran to the crime site. They saw the accused trying to hide himself. “We held the juvenile by the collar and called the cops, who immediately reached the spot and took custody of him,” said one of the locals.
 
 Police said on Saturday that the accused had been sent to a juvenile home and an investigation was on to find out if others were involved in the incident.
 
