JAIPUR:   elections are on.   declared on Tuesday that once an election process has started, it cannot be stopped. RCA was asked to continue with it.

 The process will commence from where it was stopped, which is the stage of filing nominations. The elections will now be held on May 29. Former Rajasthan election Commissioner AK Pandey will continue to act as the election officer and retired Supreme Court judge Gyan Sudha Mishra will remain as the ombudsman. The voters' list will be the same one that was released by Pandey. A 21-day notice to members will be issued by May 6 and the final day of nominations is likely to be May 26.
 
 The high-profile contest for president's post is expected to see  's 22-year-old son Ruchirtake on 67-year-old Congress strongman  , unless the numbers are so one-sided that either of them pulls out. The results, however, will remain sealed with the ombudsman, till the Supreme Court decides on an RCA interim application. The IE is scheduled to come up at a special bench on July 24.
 
 Immediately after the verdict, police were deployed at  . With any developments in RCA elections prone to controversies and violence, the administration is not taking any chances.
 
 There was jubilation in the CP Joshi camp, which was against the cancellation of the elections. Lalit Modi camp too was celebrating, as the elections will be held as per the   recommendations. "This is what we wanted," RCA deputy president Mahmood Abdi said.
 
 The RCA elections initially scheduled for April 26, were cancelled after the registrar for cooperative societies raised objections to the cricket body's proposed amendments in its Constitution. The amendments were made to align it with the Lodha Committee recommendation. "We welcome the High Court order," Abdi said. "The elections had to be cancelled because of the registrar's stand. Now, everyone has to accept the Lodha Committee re commendations."
 
 Elections will be held for six posts and nominations will have to follow the Lodha Committee guidelines.
 
 The Joshi camp was always opposed to the cancellation as it feels it had the numbers. With CP Joshi inclined to contest for the president's post, a number of sub-factions within the RCA have aligned with him. The camp claims that the elections were cancelled after the Modi faction realised that it's candidate Ruchir did not have the numbers in his favour. This claim has been stoutly refuted by the ruling Modi faction. The cancellation, as per the Joshi camp, was a ploy of the Modi group to gain time and poach voters by whatever means. Modi group's counter claim is that it is they who have the majority. Abdi said that as the elections were called only to align RCA with the Lodha Committee recommendations, once the registrar had refused to endorse the amendments, the entire process became meaningless. " As per the Sports Act, this executive committee could have continued till May, 2018," he said. "So without the amendments, there was no requirement to hold the elections."
 
 The Joshi camp claims to have the support of more than 20 out of 33 voters. That includes  , secretary of  , whose president is Lalit Modi. It sounds ironical that Ruchir might not get his father's vote, as only the secretary has voting power.
 
 "We were sure to win had the elections been held on time," a Joshi supporter said. Incidentally, CP Joshi was expected to file his nomination on April 23, a day after the elections were cancelled. Even Ruchir was expected to file his nomination on that day.
 
