NAGPUR: A huge crowd from around   including about 1200 people from outside Nagpur gathered at Samvidhan square for a campaign titled ‘Raktakshari Agitation’ organized by Vidarbha Rajya Aghadi (VIRAA) on Sunday. The campaign was launched on May 1 to demand for statehood for Vidarbha for which people signed letters in blood. 

 The programme began with garlanding of the statue of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar by the hands of the founder and president of VIRAA advocate Shreehari Aney after which he himself signed one of the letters followed by loud slogans of ‘Vegla Vidarbha jhalach pahije’ by all the attendees which charged up the atmosphere.
 
 Addressing the crowd, Neeraj Khandewale, secretary of Nagpur division, VIRAA and  , vice-president, Hinganghat division, said, “Today we are sacrificing just a drop of blood for Vidarbha but we are ready to sacrifice a lot more than that and even our life, if need be.” 
 
 Further, Shrikant Taral, vice-president, Amravati division, VIRAA talked on ‘Vidarbha andolan: Ek samiksha’ and expressed his gratitude towards the participation of youth in the campaign. “Participation by the youngsters in such a majority in this movement clearly shows that they have the fire in their blood to fight for the right cause,” he said. 
 
 Later, Aney took to the dais and spoke on the issue of Vidarbha’s statehood. “Whichever political party has ruled over Vidarbha, they have only fooled us and used Vidarbha and everyone else only for their own benefit. Even when a special development board was installed for Vidarbha, there was no outcome.”
 
 “It is possible to bring a change but only those who have an aim can do so and we will do it. We have been deceived many times with fake promises and now is the time for us to show our strength. However, there is no point in showcasing it to the state government, we need to show it to the Centre,” added Aney.
 
 “People from all the generations are present here, especially the youth and this assures me that there is still a very strong support base for a separate statehood for Vidarbha,” he said. Aney also discussed various aspects needed for betterment of Vidarbha and motivated the youth to be future leaders.
 
 The programme ended with the handing over of around 10,000 letters to Aney by the VIRAA team. About 35,000 letters have been signed since the campaign began. The final date to send the letters to the Prime Minister   will be declared during a special programme on October 16.
 
 (Reporting by Tanuja Ratnaparkhi)
 
 
