CHENNAI: Its aroma, legend has it, is enough to make a person with a full belly hungry again. But a variant of the fabled  , said to be a legacy of the Nizams after the recipe was first brought to Hyderabad (then  ) by the invading army of Mughal ruler Aurangazeb, has failed to secure a Geographical Indication (GI) tag. 

 Officials at the GI registry in the city have held that the association of biryani makers, which applied for the tag, 'Hyderabadi Biryani', did not provide historical data pertaining to its origin. 
 
 The GI tag is given to a product to indicate its specific geographical location or point of origin. The tag ensures none other than those authorised are allowed to use the product name.
 
 The   had filed an application in April 2009 seeking a GI tag for the dish. 
 
 The registry then issued a notice saying the application did not meet the mandated rules. The association then gave an undertaking that it would rectify the application following which a consultative group comprising experts issued recommendations. 
 
 The registry then issued an examination report directing the association to provide documentary evidence regarding historical date (from the gazetteer) besides the proof of origin. But, there was no satisfactory reply.
 
 A second examination report was issued in August 2010 to produce the documentary proof. As there was no reply, a third examination report was issued in July 2013 directing the association to resolve the ambiguities in the application. There was no reply and the registry then issued a showcause hearing to comply with the directions in May 2016. 
 
 The applicant , however, did not reply, following which a final showcause notice was issued in January 23, 2017. But the association remained absent.
 
 "Reputation of the product is the basis for granting a GI tag," said the registry. "Securing of GI tag and protecting the status from infringement is not a one day show...the registered proprietor has to protect the product and its producers," it said. As the association did not fulfill the requirements, the application was rejected and "treated as abandoned for want of prosecution."
 
