NEW DELHI: The Delhi Medical Council has deregistered two surgeons for   months for operating upon the wrong leg of a patient. The incident involved a 24-year-old youth who was admitted at Fortis Hospital in Shalimar Bagh after fracturing his right foot.

 The hospital had sacked the two surgeons after preliminary inquiry suggested that the operating team may have sidestepped due processes. TOI had reported how the   put multiple screws inside the left foot of Ravi Rai, the patient, which led to further complications and left him bedridden for several days.
 
 DMC in its order, a copy of which is with TOI, has stated that the disciplinary committee found that Dr Ashwani Maichand and Dr Rahul Kakran, surgeons involved in the case, had failed to exercise reasonable degree of skill, knowledge and care that is expected of an ordinary prudent doctor, in the treatment of Ravi Rai.
 
 “The disciplinary committee recommends that their names be removed from the state medical register for 180 days,” the order says.
 
 This, DMC’s registrar Dr Girish Tyagi explained, means they cannot practice at all for six months. “Exemplary action is needed in proven cases of medical negligence,” he added. Sources said DMC sought the doctors’ clarification on the allegation but wasn’t satisfied by their response. They also found that case records were tampered with to mislead investigators, said sources.
 
 Rai fell from stairs in June last year, following which he was rushed to hospital. His family alleged that doctors told them that Rai needed   to fix the bones. “We agreed but wanted some time to arrange the insurance papers. So, a temporary cast was put. It’s incomprehensible how they missed the marks left by the cast and operated on the wrong foot,” Ram Karan Rai, the patient’s father, told TOI.
 
 He added that it was only when Rai came to his senses and screamed in pain that the doctors realised their mistake. The hospital issued a statement on June 22, 2016, when a complaint was filed with the police in the matter, stating that services of the two doctors and OR personnel (five) have been dispensed with.
 
 Dr Tyagi said: “This is a rare instance of such strong action against doctors.” DMC, officials said, receives 20-30 complaints of medical negligence every month. Most of them are related to overcharging. “The increase in number of complaints could also be because patients are aware about their rights,” the official added.
 
 As per a report published in British Medical Journal, medical error is the third leading cause of death in the US, accounting for 2.5 lakh deaths every year. “WHO has laid down standard operating procedures for surgical safety. If the hospitals follow them strictly, the rate of errors will certainly reduce,” said a senior doctor.
 
 
