Mumbai: A committee set up by the   (SRA) is set to deepen its probe into 33 files cleared by the body’s former chief  .

 The panel has already submitted an interim report to the state housing department. It points to prima facie irregularities in 33 files cleared by Patil in his last month in office this June, as reported by TOI on September 27. Patil’s clearance of 137 files in his last month before retirement had come under the scanner. The decisions were stayed by the government and a four-member panel set up in July to scrutinize whether the clearances were irregular.
 
 The panel found no irregularities in 103 files cleared. However, it recommended a more in-depth inquiry into 33 files in which it observed prima facie irregularities. The panel said this was required to come to a definite conclusion and to decide at which level the irregularity occurred.
 
 Sources say the panel will now conduct an in-depth probe into the files with the aim of fixing responsibility and suggesting action which could even including lodging cases. It will also take the testimony of various officials involved in clearing the files, source said.
 
 Patil has told TOI that the reports of irregularities stem from a lack of information. Once the information is received, most of the cases will be seen as above board, he said. Patil also said many of the projects had been generated before he took charge and had received multiple approvals at different levels.
 
 Among the files cleared by Patil in which the panel found irregularities is the  , exposed by TOI on July 12. On June 23, after the approval of housing minister  , the SRA had permitted an irregular proposal which allowed extra building rights granted to slumdwellers at MP Mill Compound near Tardeo’s Imperial Towers to be transferred to a scheme for project-affected people. This was in violation of development control rules. The move would have generated building rights worth over Rs 500 crore for the developer,  .
 
 After receiving TOI’s queries, chief minister Devendra Fadnavis had stayed the decision. Prakash Mehta currently faces a Lokayukta probe in the matter. Patil said, “I did not grant a final clearance to the M P Mill Compound scheme. I sought an opinion from the government more than once on the matter.”
 
