BENGALURU: The Institute of Wood Science and Technology is yet to submit its report on translocation of trees on Jayamahal Road, but   is all set to commence the exercise on Thursday. Ironically, it is the Palike which had commissioned the survey. 

 “We have studied trees with a girth of 60cm and below because we have the technology to translocate such trees. The report has been sent to Volvo Trucks, which has to find out if there are underground cables or rocks. Once the company submits its evaluation report, which is expected in two or three days, we will send a consolidated report to BBMP,” said a forest officer part of the survey. BBMP has collaborated with the institute to ascertain how many trees can be translocated out of the 112 lining the stretch. 
 
 The   of   had approached BBMP to translocate the trees on the stretch along Palace Grounds. Princess Indrakshi Devi (late Srikantadatta Wadiyar’s sister) and her husband had planted the trees which are a bone of contention now, said a source close to the family. “The land was given to the princess by her father  . No TDR certificate has been issued to the family, which is why the land is technically under her possession. The family supports sustainable development, that’s why we approached BBMP to translocate the trees. And the Palike has granted permission,” he said.
 
 Royal family sources said BBMP has neither the wherewithal nor the technology required to translocate so many trees. “The family members got in touch with Prayas Environment from Surat for the purpose,” the source added.
 
 BBMP executive engineer Prahlad said the land belongs to the royal family so it’s not a public project. “Why should there be so much opposition to it,” he asked, confirming the Palike will begin the translocation process on Thursday.
 
 Tree expert and retired forest conservator SG Nenginhal said the trees are aged around 60 to 70. Older trees have lesser chances of surviving the translocation process. “Only one per cent of the trees moved to make way for the Metro on MG Road survived translocation. A number of parameters have to be kept in mind —trees that are younger, have lesser girth and are of certain species can survive in their new habitat,” he said.
 
