AMARAVATI: Recently, Chandrababu Naidu's pet   found a special mention in the   for setting a new record in completing the   within a year. Days later, the   ( ), in a stinging report, damned the project, saying it is a colossal waste of public money and that the project is of no use as the money spent far outweighs the benefits to be reaped by users. 

 Taking strong objection to the government's excess spending to favour contractors and waste public money, CAG said the government had tweaked several rules and regulations to favour the contractors. The CAG's findings on the chief minister's dream project created ripples in the political circles in the state after the government placed the CAG report in the assembly on the last day of the budget session on Friday. 
 
 The auditor-in-chief of public accounts said the government had wasted Rs 321 crore of public money on Pattiseema and pointed out that Rs 106 crore was paid in excess to the contractor due to sudden changes in tender rules. The government took an additional burden of Rs 199 crore by calling for tenders even before completion of distributary lines and canals. "The government had returned Rs 14 crore to the contractor which he paid towards labour cess. The contractor was benefited by Rs 32 crore for granting unneeded concession on central excise duties on purchase of the pipes," the CAG pointed out. 
 
 The CAG report also ripped apart the spendings made by the irrigation department. It said the department had failed to complete the projects that were supposed to have been completed by March 2016, leading to an additional burden on the public exchequer. "The government had so far spent nearly Rs 71,000 crore for completion of 274 irrigation projects. Not even a single project has been commissioned in the last three years," it said.CAG also raised strong objections against the irrigation department's moves to increase the project costs at will. The cost of nearly 63 projects had been escalated by Rs 24,182 crore without any valid reason. 
 
