MANGALURU: Department of prisons has initiated the process for setting up a state-of-the-art central prison at   in   taluk. On completion at an estimated cost of Rs 200 crore, it will be the 10th such facility in the state after  , which is all set for inauguration, noted H N S  , director-general of police (prisons). The state government has already released Rs 2 crore for the central prison and earmarked Rs 7.5 crore for the facility this year, he said.

 Dedicating the new visitors’ gallery and laying foundation stone for a welcome arch for the district jail 
 , Rao said few remaining work on the gallery will be attended to shortly. “We need to insert glass panes between the cubicles separating inmates from their visitors and install intercom facilities,” he said. The all India prison manual stipulates that such glass panes be bullet proof, he said adding such glass panes have been installed in Shivamogga prison.
 
 The department is in possession of 67.89 acres of land at Mudipu for the central prison project. It will be an all-inclusive facility with provision to hold 1,000 under trials and convicts. “The blue print has provision for automatic doors with spikes at the entrance,” he said adding this will be in place if PWD to whom the work has been entrusted is able to procure the same. “If they can’t get the same, we will go in for semi-automatic gates and crash barriers,” he said.
 
 The stand out provision in the blueprint is provision for a helipad that has been incorporated on a suggestion from the home minister, he said. It will have a separate staff quarters complex to house 270 jail staff, a library, hospital and workshops as well, Rao said adding topography and terrain of the area has been taken in to consideration in coming up with the blueprint. The district prison is vastly overcrowded and houses 410 under trials, double its capacity, he said.
 
 With prisons department going in for video-conferencing in a big way, the current issue of shortage of escort staff too will be addressed once the new central prison comes up. “We have already issued 32 video-conferencing units to 22 courts and 10 jails in the state at a cost of Rs 1.89 crore,” he said, adding additional video-conferencing units have been procured at a cost of Rs 3.3 crore. Three such units have been given to district prison and the court here, Rao added.
 
