MANGALURU: Dakshina Kannada MP Nalin Kumar Kateel has written a letter to Union home minister   seeking his attention towards incidents of attacks on RSS and   workers in Dakshina Kannada district.

 “I humbly request the home ministry to advise the state government to tackle the situation with an iron hand and take stringent action against those who disrupt communal harmony in the district. I also urge the Union government to seek report from the state government on the situation in the district particularly regarding attacks on RSS and BJP workers,” Kateel stated in his letter to Rajnath Singh.
 
 The MP has also urged the centre to ban organisations like   (PFI), Karnataka Forum for Dignity (KFD) and National Development Front (NDF). “ While giving its opinion on the activities of   in one of the cases, the Kerala government has informed the Kerala high court that activities of PFI are inimical to the safety of the country and it is ‘nothing but a resurrection of the banned outfit Students Islamic Movement of India (SIMI) in another form.’ Hence, I urge the Union government to consider banning these organisations,” Kateel urged.
 
 Criticizing the state government for allegedly appeasing minority communities, the MP said “The state government’s cavalier attitude towards governance combined with relentless appeasement of minority communities has become a deadly brew in coastal Karnataka districts. The situation is tensed in parts of Dakshina Kannada, my constituency, over the last couple of days following clashes between two groups,” Kateel stated.
 
 In his letter, Kateel has also made a mention of the murders of RSS worker Sharath Madivala in BC Road, Prashanth Poojary in Moodbidri, D Kuttappa in Madikeri, Rudresh in Bengaluru and threats being issued to RSS leader Kalladka Prabhakar Bhat on social media. “Anti-social organisations like PFI, KFD and NDF get strengthened in pockets of Kasaragod, where Muslim population is more and get political support from the Muslim League,” he added.
 
