DEHRADUN: The forest department is conducting monitoring and estimation of tigers in   without the assistance of   for the first time. After installing the camera trap across the Corbett Tiger Reserve, now the same procedure has been adapted at Kalagarh  . In the last four-year countrywide tiger estimation, Corbett was found to be having 340 tigers.

 Dheeraj Pandey, divisional forest official of Kalagarh, said, “The camera traps have been installed in   as per guidelines of National Tiger Conservation Authority. For one month, we will collect data about the number of tigers, prey base, corridor identification and status of habitat, which will then be analyzed by the forest officials and wildlife experts.”
 
 He said, since this exercise is being conducted purely by the forest staff without the aid of WII or any other agency so this will eventually help in capacity building of the frontal staff such as forest guard and foresters who will then become master trainer for future estimation exercises.
  
 WII scientists had confirmed that four out of five tiger skins seized from poachers nabbed by police from Haridwar in March last year were of Corbett tigers. The wildlife department miffed on this claim is believed to have dropped WII which otherwise had been conducting tiger estimation in Corbett for last ten years. According to a WII scientist, “This is just the tip of the iceberg. " "If the annual study is done properly comparing the images of stripes of tigers captured last year, it will become evident that poachers have wiped out many tigers from certain pockets of the reserve, especially the Sonanandi Wildlife Sanctuary zone."
  
 The annual monitoring and estimation process of tigers of Rajaji Tiger Reserve has also begun. Sanatan, Rajaji director told TOI, “Some 250 to 300 camera traps have been installed in Eastern part of Rajaji first, followed by around 25 cameras in Western part. We will collect the data for one month and the result will be out by March end.” He said, there are around 32 tigers in Eastern part in Gohri, Chilla and Rawasan ranges of the reserve.“
 
