Do you know how reverse osmosis works? The residents of a village in Palakkad are now experts at the filtration process and use it to separate iron content from drinking water – all thanks to the State government’s  , better known as the Jalanidhi.

 Their mode of water conservation is one among the many that was used as fodder for the 16 documentary films, directed by  , under the initiative of  .
 
 The documentaries aim to shed light on various   used by people in the rural areas of the State.
 For the filmmaker, it was a two month-long painstaking but enlightening experience to gauge the success of the  , which is funded by the World Bank.
 
 The documentaries include a 20-minute film about the success of the project at the State level, three region-wise films, six vignettes on specific issues and six each on the brand ambassadors of the project titled 6 Jalanidhi Heroes.
 What captivated the director the most was the conservation measures practised by the tribal community in Wayanad and Idukki regions.
 
 “Though it was a strenuous job to select the footages, it was inspiring to see how the uneducated tribes are dedicated to conserving drinking water,” says Viju, who is the panel director at Kerala State Film Development Corporation.
 He says that the lives of some of the chosen Jalanidhi heroes reflect the severe scarcity of water in the State.
 
 “We have included a story of a tribal woman from Wayanad, highlighting her travails in finding water in the forest filled with wild animals. Some people even have to walk more than 5 km inside the hinterland to reach river side. Though they make pits on the bank of dried rivers to store water, sometimes elephants squash them,” he says.
 
 Another documentary is about the tribal girls who miss schooldays to accompany their mothers to collect water. “Both these stories have happy endings as the communities are made aware of rain water harvesting and water management through pits and trenches inside their colony,” Viju explains. 
 
 The filmmaker also lauds the techniques practiced by the residents of Palakkad. “The district regularly faces acute drought and the Jalanidhi project relies fully on the public to find solutions for drinking water shortage. So, it was surprising how people there quickly learnt about pipe-pressure test and methods to check the content of iron and other metals in the water,” he says.
 
 Apart from the drinking water issue, the documentaries also focus on sanitation projects practised by women in rural areas in districts such as Idukki.
 Currently, Viju is in the finishing stages of the epic project. “This year we witnessed severe drought because of the climate change and various factors. I am hoping these documentaries will help the panchayats that are facing severe scarcity of drinking water, to understand what the Jalanidhi project is and how it will help them,” he says.
 
