PUNE: The   (MSBB) has acted upon certain guidelines to ensure nurturers of   in the wild get their due and to   of  . 

 The Board has acted on guidelines of the Access and Benefit Sharing (ABS) mechanism of the   (NBA). 
 
 According to a MSBB report, the board had earlier issued notices to more than 1,100 manufacturers and traders of Ayurvedic drugs that are commercially utilising these bio resources. As a result, the board has received 153 applications for registration from companies seeking permit for such commercial use in recent months.
 
 Many of the companies use these natural plants and products as ingredients in medicinal and other products. However, before the introduction of ABS in 2014, the locals that care for these plants would often not be given their due and ended up selling them to traders for throwaway prices, an official said.
 
 In addition, the board has also received 174 applications for access to bio resources for research purposes. In lieu of all the applications, the board has already received an amount of Rs 8.8 lakh from the companies under ABS.
 
 "After tracing of geographical location from where biological resources were collected, 95% of the ABS amount shall be transferred to the account of the biodiversity management committee (BMC) of the respective region," the report states.
 
 Nagpur-based pharmaceutical expert for MSBB, Vivek Ennarwar said that the various applications for ABS are currently being compiled by the body. "We are preparing a database of the applications. While the NBA has an online system for applications, we are in the process of adopting this digital form system," he said
 
 The ABS database will help form a map of resources based on their location and density. "The database will also help identify bio resources, including plants that are listed as threatened species, so we can stop their use. It will also provide information about which species may be being overused and need conservation," Ennarwar told TOI.
 
  What is ABS? 
 
 Access and Benefit Sharing was included under sections of the Biological Diversity Act, 2002. As per Section 7 of the act, "prior intimation to state biodiversity board for obtaining biological resource for certain purposes needs to be given in Form-I. So, no person, who is a citizen of India or a body corporate, association or organisation which is registered in India, shall obtain any biological resource for commercial utilization, or bio-survey and bio-utilization for commercial utilisation except after giving prior intimation to the state biodiversity board". 
 
