GURUGRAM: A group of 20 school students toiled hard for the last two years to bring a   that had dried up back to life in the Aravali hills.

 Located around 2.5 kilometres from   in the  , a 50m-wide water body had died a slow death due to negligence. The students carried out a cleaning drive to unblock the natural water channel that fed it, followed by several de-silting and plantation drives.
 
 It was disheartening for 16-year-old Kashvi, a student of   in Aravalis, to see animals struggling to find water in a slushy, two-metre hole. “Some two years ago, I visited the forest along with my classmates. We saw some cattle around a small water hole in the middle of the forest. Animals were struggling to find water in the muck. We all decided to do something to help revive the water body,” she said.
 
 “When we spoke to local people, they told us there was a huge water body in the area some 20 years ago. However, it dried up. One of our instructors, who belongs to a nearby village, helped us devise a plan to revive the water body,” said 18-year-old Sagar, who has been working at the site regularly for two years. 
 
 Their instructor,  , a resident of Akhlimpur village, told TOI, “There were more than nine water bodies within 2-3km radius of this area near Raisina village. However, most vanished over the past 20-30 years, as the water channel got blocked, deforestation happened and there was low rainfall. Drying up of water bodies has adversely affected agriculture for many years. The ponds always served as an important water source for the villagers and wild animals. But now both villagers and wild animals are struggling to find water in the village.”
 
 “About 20 years ago, this water body was a source of drinking water for the villagers. Since it dried up, cattle and wild animals had to travel to far-off places in search of water. It’s good to see water back here again,” said Azam Khan, a Raisina resident.
 
 The students took up the project of reviving water bodies as part of their community service programme. The project was carried out in three stages — cleaning the natural water channel, de-silting the water body with spades, and plantation drive to keep the water body in good health.
 
 “Plants have water-holding capacity. We have already carried out some plantation drives. Ahead of the monsoons, we’ll take up the third stage of the plantation drive,” said Bhardwaj.
 
 
