GURUGRAM: The Gurgaon administration has kept the odd-even traffic scheme as an option to reduce air pollution in the city in the coming months, taking a cue from Delhi’s implementation of the car-rationing plan in 2016.

 Gurgaon was the most polluted Indian city on Sunday (Central Pollution Control Board data). And with the imminent onset of stubble burning in Punjab and Haryana, and   and foggy days ahead, air quality is likely to remain poor on more days than not during the next few months.
 
 An action plan issued by the administration on Saturday said “introduce odd-even scheme for private vehicles based on number plates” if pollution reaches emergency levels.
 
 The Gurgaon administration has taken steps to implement the graded action plan (GRAP) from October 1 to contain emissions from all sources and is hoping the measures will be enough to prevent   from going into the emergency zone (when PM2.5 breaches 300µg/m³ and PM10 is at, or above 500µg/m³, and the conditions persist for 48 hours). Delhi will implement   from October 15. 
 
 Deputy commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh told TOI on Sunday, “We are not implementing the odd-even scheme as of now. Our motive is not to reach emergency levels. That is why we are implementing the scheme (GRAP) from October 1, well in advance. However, if the situation becomes alarming, we may consider implementation of the odd-even scheme, after discussing it with all the stakeholders involved.”
 
 GRAP is to be implemented if pollution levels become ‘very poor’ — when PM2.5 levels hover between 121 and 250 µg/m³ or PM10 levels are between 351µg/m³ and 430µg/m³.
 
 Talking about the possible implementation of the odd-even scheme, Jai Bhagwan Sharma, regional officer of the   (HSPCB), said, “The idea behind giving an action plan is to make sure the city doesn’t witness such a situation. With the district administration taking early action, I hope the situation will remain under control this year. I request residents to abstain from bursting firecrackers this Diwali. This is the only way we can control pollution levels.”
 
 GRAP, prepared by the Supreme Court-appointed   (EPCA), charts out an action plan for all departments, including traffic police, civic bodies and pollution control boards, in case the concentration of pollutants, especially particulate matter, reaches a certain level. Some steps it mandates are mechanised sweeping, sprinkling of water on roads, smooth flow of traffic, closure of brick kilns, ban on crop-burning, ban on firecrackers and enforcement of pollution under control (PUC) norms.
 
 The action plan given by the district administration also calls for stopping construction activities and constituting a task force to take decision on any additional steps (if needed) including shutting of schools, restricting entry of trucks and deploying cops for smooth traffic flow at congested spots in the city.
 
 A transport authority official said, “Since Gurgaon doesn’t have a good public transport system, it might be difficult to implement the odd-even scheme in the city. In case of an emergency, we will explore all possibilities so that it doesn’t cause any inconvenience to the people. Our priority is to bring down pollution levels, so we will follow the instructions given in GRAP.”
 
  
  
 
