He’s done some ‘different’ kind of movies, not really bothering about box office success. And, says filmmaker  , those are the films that have made him wiser to the commercial side of the art he’s passionate about. Ready with his next, an anthology that stars south hottie  , among multiple other stars,   tells us why it’s painstaking making a bilingual, and why he was disappointed when the Kaatru Veliyidai (he assisted Mani Ratnam for this film) reviews weren’t as raving as he thought they’d be, and why the industry desperately needs more writers... Excerpts from a chat with Bejoy...

 
 It is a multiple genre film, an anthology, where   plays the protagonist. The story has a mythical connect and there are a lot of twists and turns in the movie. The story revolves around four elements — earth, wind, fire and water and so Dulquer will be playing four different characters in the movie. Another interesting highlight is that there are 11 composers in the film and three cameramen. I am collaborating with several bands like Masala Coffee, Filter Coffee, Thaikkudam Bridge, Agam etc. I also have other musicians who have worked on the album. The music for the movie will be an eclectic mix. I’m big on background score so it was all the more enjoyable. I always believe that indie music and musicians should be promoted. I’m a champion of indie music As for the cinematographers, I have worked with Madhu Neelakandan, Sejal Shah and Girish Gangadharan.
 
 
 Well, I died! It was like making four different movies. The logistics and everything else required a lot of work and I completely banked on my team. I have tried my best to do justice to the story. But the actors knew what they were getting into.
 
 
 I cannot say enough about this absolutely gem of a man. He might come across like this rockstar, but he is a committed actor. I was spoilt for choice and I kept telling him that I was taking his performance for granted. He would effectively switch from one character to the other. I admire his body of work... his ideas and concept are his forte.
 When it comes to your movies, there is always a dark shade, and a few grey character...
 I am not shying away from that allegation (laughs). I have gone out of my comfort zone for this film and it is unlike stuff that I have done before. I have dug deeper with the romantic beat in this movie. But the grey shade will still be there. But I must say, I have tried to balance it out. I have also tried to look at the brighter side in this film. 
 
 
 My last bilingual, David, was done half-heartedly. Half of it was dubbed and half of it was shot. I couldn’t do justice to it as there was also this time constraint. The decision to make David a bilingual was also taken later. But with this one, we were clear right from the beginning to make two films. We, in fact, approached the story, cast and locations based on it being a bilingual. We wanted to explore both languages and wanted to make the story resonate with both the states. And of course, it is no easy task as it took a toll on everyone. So many times Dulquer would give a fantastic shot and we would be happy to have gotten it right. And then we are like, crap, we have to do it all over again. We got exhausted at times.
 
 
 That is the biggest challenge for me. But the success is in bridging this gap. You try and make a story that can have a commercial input. At least, the money that you have invested should be recovered. Having said that, I think you approach the film in your style and let it flow. That is what I have started doing.
 
 
 My focus is Solo. Once I am done with this, I will know what to do next. I was enthusiastic at one point of time, but this film has taken over now. Let’s see what I do with that project.
 
 
 It is difficult everywhere. Every market comes with its own set of difficulties. I initially thought this will be a quick film, but it came with a lot of hurdles. I think the audience is watching different kind of films today. The surge for content is higher. Content is taking centrestage and people are ready to experiment. Joker is a good example for that. How well the audience connects with the movie is what matters.
 
 
 I think we tried our best. When Iruvar came out, the movie didn’t do well, but later turned out to be a cult classic. Some of them could connect with Kaatru... and some couldn’t. I really liked the film. Mani sir tried something new and it was a learning curve for all of us. We went all out on it, but I was disheartened when the reviews came out.
 
 
 I think we have enough writers, but they are just not getting their due. They need to feel empowered and there should be a right platform to promote them. Everyone expects a director to also be a writer. Why is that necessary? A good director can turn a good story into a good movie. He need not write his own story. I think it is a matter of time till we will start focusing on good writers and give them their due recognition. 
 
 
 Well, it is either Mani sir or my movies. I get all my movies edited by Sreekar Prasad, so I come here often for work. In fact, I bought a scooter here, so that I can travel around in peace. 
 
 
 I had approached Kamal sir for a film, but that did not work at that point of time. I hope it works soon. Who doesn’t want to work with either of them?
 
 
