PUNE: Ignorant of their condition, as many as 110 individuals with active tuberculosis were found in five municipal corporations in the state during a mass campaign between January 16 and 30 this year. 

 As a part of the campaign, 7.48 lakh people were screened for the disease through door-to-door visit by health workers. A majority of such individuals were found in Mumbai (45) and Thane (29) followed by   (18), Pune (10) and   (8). In Pune, as many as 1.60 lakh people, mainly from the slums, were screened.
 
 “The campaign aims to pick up missing TB cases from the community, provide them with treatment, thus, arresting the spread of the disease. It is aimed to get in touch with the unreached population to enhance TB case detection in the vulnerable pockets like slums,” state tuberculosis officer   said.
 
 So far, there have been passive TB case findings in the state where patients visit hospitals for their tests. This leaves out people who do not get tested fearing social stigma. 
 
 Also, many are ignorant about the symptoms.
 
 However, in the active case finding campaign, health teams visit the population in the vulnerable areas to enquire about TB symptoms. Based on general symptoms, the teams collect the sputum of suspected people on the spot and get these tested in the health facility.
 
 “In some cases, where the sputum does not indicate TB, the people are asked to get X-Ray of their chests done. If some abnormality is found after the X-Ray exam, they are further asked to go for Cartridge Based Nucleic Acid Amplification Test (CBNAAT) for confirmation of the disease,” a state health official said.
 
 “These are hidden cases that we have picked up and put on treatment now. Compared with prevalence rate cited by the  , there are 10 positive TB cases for every 2.20 lakh population in India,” PMC’s city tuberculosis officer Narendra Thakur told TOI.
 
 The campaign follows World Health Organization’s evidence that the curve of TB incidence (new cases annually) in India is rising instead of dipping. The Sustainable Development Goal on TB involves reducing new cases by 90% till 2030 — a mammoth challenge for India where 75% of TB patients are in private hands.
 
