Cleared/Madan

 Coimbatore: The 24x7   project is in limbo. According to corporation officials and sources, an international company that was shortlisted after the tender process refused to tie up with local contractors and later withdrew from the project. 
 
 However, the same company was shortlisted when the corporation called for tenders again a few weeks ago. “We are hopeful that at least this time the tender process will not get jeopardised,” a corporation official said. A senior corporation officer confirmed this and said they will ensure that local contractors are not involved in this project.
 
 Veolia water technologies and Suez waters were the two international contractors selected for the project. This time, Veolia water technologies has been shortlisted. “This is an international company which refused to engage in sub-contracting and provide work to the local contractors,” an official said.
 
 Former councillors said it was not just the contractors that were involved. Several corporation officials who had sought a higher percentage as commission for the project were also the reason for the delay in the tender process. 
 
 Former DMK councillor S M Samy said, “The contractor was asked to pay not just the corporation officials but also the AIADMK candidate who was nominated for the post for a road project recently. The contractor didn’t receive the payment, so he refused to take up the projects,” he said.
 
 He said that last year, when the tender process was in progress, many contractors had complained to deputy commissioner P Gandhimathi that they were getting threats and were being intimidated by ruling party contractors. “But the DC neither called the police nor ensured action against these contractors. Many contractors were threatened and sent away from the gate at the corporation office itself,” he said.
 
 Gayathri R, former Congress councillor, said that even for birth and death certificates people had to pay Rs 500-Rs 700 per form in Sai Baba colony. “It is definitely not new for this corporation to seek bribes and indulge in corruption,” she said. 
 
 The company was contacted several times, but they refused to comment on the issue. Senior corporation officials, when contacted, said they were aware of the various issues concerning the tender. “We will ensure that the contract is given to the best company as per the norms. This particular company has undertaken several international level projects and will not entertain such processes,” the official said. 
 
 The Rs 556.57-crore project was announced by the civic body to improve the water supply. It involved the replacement of British-era pipelines with new ones to enhance the distribution network. The project aimed at reducing leakages and to digitise the entire system. Smart meters to track the water usage were a major feature of the project.
 
 
