MANGALURU: The city’s selection under the Union government’s   could see the state government nix Rs 100 crore special grant given to   (MCC). 

 The government has released Rs 100 crore special grants to all city corporations in the state barring BBMP in three separate tranches of Rs 100 crore each. Most city corporations barring MCC have already been allocated the fourth tranche of Rs 100 crore grant as well.
 
 Hinting at the possibility of MCC being denied the fourth tranche of special Nagarothana grants,   J R Lobo, said since the state government has to pool in its share of Rs 1,200 crore for six cities selected under the Smart City project, it may not release Nagarothana grants to such civic bodies if allocation has already not been done as it will cast additional financial burden on the state government, the MLA noted.
 
 Addressing concerns raised by corporators at a monthly meeting of the council of MCC on Tuesday, Lobo, said senior bureaucrats have dropped clear hints that the city corporation might not get the fourth tranche of grants and it would have to do with developmental grants given under the Smart City project. 
 
 “ Notwithstanding this, we have represented the issue to chief minister Siddaramaiah urging him not to deny the city of development grants,” he asserted.
 
 At the same time, the state government is committed to releasing Rs 100 crore grants under the third tranche of funds and will do so, Lobo said. Out of this, the civic body will have to set aside Rs 36 crore to meet its commitment to ADB-sponsored works, and likewise use another substantial portion from the third tranche towards its commitment for projects under Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (Amrut) scheme, the MLA reminded.
 
 However, sounding a note of optimism, Lobo said the CM, who holds the finance portfolio, could still override the bureaucratic caution sounded on this front. 
 
 “It depends on the overall revenue mobilization and if the CM has the leeway to meet the city’s need for funds as represented to him by a delegation of all MLAs from the district headed by the district minister  ,” Lobo told TOI, adding the state budget could hold answers to this question.
 
 
