BHOPAL: Five-day-old   underwent a surgery at AIIMS, New Delhi on Saturday.

 After being flown from Bhopal with the help of Union minister   on Friday, the toddler had an open heart in the morning. However, he will be under observation for three days and his survival chances are being monitored. He is presently on a ventilator, tweeted his uncle Dushyant Dwivedi.
 
 “He just needs prayers. With the effort of so many sensitive people across country and Sushmaji’s help, he has undergone the open heart surgery successfully, but is still in a critical condition,” said Dwivedi.
 
 Two days after a tweet by his father Devesh Sharma and uncle Dushyant, the baby was airlifted for treatment in New Delhi with the help of Sushma Swaraj and chief minister  .
 
 On January 25, Dushyant Dwivedi, the maternal uncle of Om, tweeted about the condition of his nephew, who had been struggling for life and had breathing problems. In the tweet, he tagged Union health minister J P Nadda and Prime Minister Narendra Modi. He was admitted in Yashoda Hospital then and was airlifted at 5pm on January 27.
 
 Sushma Swaraj came to know about the matter only when Shehzad Poonawalla, secretary of   tweeted about the matter to her. The Union minister responded immediately, seeking the number of Om’s father.
 
 Om was born on January 23, but was suffering from transposition of arteries (inter-ventricular septum), and needed an urgent surgery. But when no doctor in Bhopal agreed to operate upon the toddler, his kin sought help from the ministers.
 
 In the meanwhile, the Twitter accounts of Om’s father and uncle have been loaded with prayers from all across the country. Many good Samaritans are also extending their help.
 
 Devesh also thanked them via social media. Sushma’s tweets have been retweeted over 1,200 times and strings of prayers are being attached.
 
 Devesh Sharma did not have any resources to get their child treated or take him to big hospitals in other states. Instead he landed on Twitter to seek help after all doctors they consulted denied to operate the child for transposition of arteries in Bhopal. However, some did not left the chance to tag Bhopal doctors as “Vyapam born doctors”.
 
 Not only ministers and other social activists jumped in to help, but, also major hospitals based in New Delhi, Rajasthan and other states directly contacted the family of Om and welcomed them for treating the toddler.
 
 
