The  , in association with   (LSR), organized Sankalp Se Siddhi: Yeh India Ka Time Hai – an event to commemorate the 75 years of the   and 70 years of Independence. The day started with a street play performance by the students of LSR’s dramatics society, followed by Manthan, a discussion on Education & Women: Vision for 2020. The event culminated with a patriotic rock show by the rock fusion band Nasya.

 
  
  
  from Nasya performs at the rock patriotic show at LSR (BCCL/ Ranjit Kumar)
 
  
 The street play was based on peaceful resistance. Shraiya Singh, one of the members of the dramatics society, said, "The idea behind our play was that non-violence, a principle taught by Mahatma Gandhi, still remains a more powerful form of resistance in today’s time. We connected the Quit India Movement with recent times to show the spirit of non-violence at Jantar Mantar – a place where people come with a lot of hope to get justice. This teaching by Mahatma Gandhi still exists."
 
  An exhibition on Women & Education along with another exhibition on Freedom & Quit India Movement were also organized by the members of HIVE, the fine arts society of the college.
 
  
  A member of the band Nasya
 
 
  
 The event concluded with Nasya's performance. The band has been recognized by the HRD ministry and they perform at different colleges as part of the Sankalp Se Siddhi: Yeh India Ka Time Hai event. As part of the rock show, the band performed patriotic songs like Vande Mataram and Rang De Basanti and also sang some Bollywood songs for the audience. Kunal Wason, vocalist of the band, told us, "It was great to perform at LSR, the energy here was fantastic. We have been performing at different DU colleges, but I think the crowd here was really special."
 
  
  Suman Sharma, the principal (BCCL/ Ranjit Kumar)
 
 
  
  
 
  Kunal told us that there were no strict guidelines that they were given by the HRD Ministry before they performed at colleges. "We sent the list of the songs that we were going to perform at these colleges and the ministry approved it. It is about inspiring the feeling of patriotism among students and I think the students will definitely feel patriotic at least for a day after the concert. Since we are performing at colleges, we have kept the list of our songs a mix of various genres so that the students and faculty can enjoy it," he added.
 
  
  An exhibition on Freedom and Quit India Movement was also held at the LSR
 
 
  
  Students also made an Independence-themed rangoli
 
 
  
  
 LSR’s Dramatics Society presented a street play at the event
 
 
 
 
