The civic body is going hi-tech to tide over the   problem for good. Coming up in Nashik for the first time is an   to manage the parking woes as space to park vehicles continues in various parts.

 The   (NMC) has drawn up an ambitious plan to install 14 rotary parking units at around Rs 9.8 crore. 
 
 The state government has granted the civic body Rs 5 crore for improving the parking system and the NMC is utilising the amount to come up with the automated facility. 
 
 As part of the state-of-the-art rotary parking system, machines are installed at the designated area with big iron trays to keep the cars (See graphics). Once a car comes for parking, it is moved to a tray at the ground level. It then gets shifted upwards, as and when needed. 
 
 Similarly, when a car is to be retrieved from the machine, the tray that holds the car is shifted to the ground level to take out the vehicle. 
 
 Each of these units shall be able to accommodate 14 cars at a time. “It’s a unique parking system that the NMC has planned to tide over the parking woes. In this system, more vehicles can be parked in lesser space,” municipal commissioner Abhishek Krishna told TOI. 
 
 NMC officials claimed that currently, not many civic bodies in the state have such a parking system. 
 
 “Our feedback from the manufacturers of such units is that the NMC shall be one of the few civic bodies in the state to come up with such a hi-tech parking facility,” deputy engineer (NMC’s traffic cell)   said. 
 
 According to him, the spots selected for the rotary parking system are some the busiest locations of the city as far as flow of vehicles is concerned. 
 
 “Even if there is a power failure, there are provisions for the system to operate smoothly. There is a hydraulic system that will be made operational when there is no power. The devise has been fitted with a lever that would have to be pulled manually to move the trays holding the vehicles to rotate the unit,” Kaundal said. 
 
 Only one staffer will be appointed at each of the 14 sites to operate the units. He would operate the system, take the car to the tray and retrieve it when the car owner wants to take away the vehicle. 
 
 The NMC has already floated tender inviting bids from parties involved in installation of the rotary parking system. 
 
 “The entire process of selecting the party based on the bids and the installation of the units could take at least six months. But we are working overtime to ensure that the project sees the light of the day as soon as possible,” Raundal said. 
 
 NMC officials said the rotary parking system “is a win-win situation both for the civic body and the car drivers”. 
 
 On & off-street parking
 
 The NMC has zeroed in over 35 locations in for authorised parking of vehicles on both sides of roads. It has also identified land in six spots for off-street parking.
 
  “All the on and off-street locations have been zeroed in after much deliberation. These are some of the busy roads where people frequent with their vehicles. Because of haphazard parking, snarls are a daily affair,” an official said. “Big commercial vehicles such as luxury buses can be parked as part of the system,” the official said.
 
 Parking fees
 
 The NMC has floated tenders to appoint agencies for collecting fees. The fees can be paid digitally as the agency staffers would be equipped with hand-held devices.
 
 “The hand held devices would be linked to the central server of NMC and its officials will keep a tab on the flow of vehicles and the fees collected from each parking site, including the rotary facility,” an official said. 
 
