KOLKATA:  , the 26-year-old nurse whose skull was fractured after being assaulted by a   at a south Kolkata nursing home last October, will be discharged from hospital on Wednesday after a   of her   

 The attack was such that Thokchom slipped into coma and did not recover for a month owing to multiple clots in her brain. She had to undergo two surgeries. She still cannot speak and will need months of treatment to regain the ability to talk.
 
 But doctors at Institute of Neurosciences Kolkata (INK), where she had been under treatment for the last three-and-half months, said Thokchom was back on her feet and could resume normal activities.
 
 The assault took place on October 20 last year, when Thokchom, who had come to Kolkata from Manipur to work at a nursing home, was on duty at the ICU. A dengue patient suddenly attacked her and two of her colleagues with an iron rod. While the others escaped with minor injuries, Thokchom collapsed to the ground, lost consciousness and went into coma; she regained consciousness a month later. “Thokchom’s recovery has almost been miraculous. The injuries were serious and they took a long time to heal. But fortunately, the surgeries were successful and ensured the clots in her brain dissolved. Ever since, she has been steadily recovering,” said R P Sengupta, chairman, INK.
 
 Even though her movements are still restricted, Thokchom can walk with assistance. “Her speech is still unclear but she has improved over the past two months. Her treatment will have to continue. It could take several months for her to recover completely,” said Sengupta. Thokchom was treated by Dr Dipen Pradhan at INK. The first of the two surgeries was crucial, carried out to remove the cerebral clots. “The clots might have turned fatal. But thankfully, they were completely removed in the surgery,” Sengupta added. 
 
 It was a long and painful but a gritty fight by Thokchom, said doctors. Even when it seemed she might not recover, she never gave up, she continued to communicate through gestures, they said. Her father, Thokchom Kunjabihari, and younger sister have been camping in the city to be by her side since the fateful day. Even the family has been going through a trying time, not only emotionally but also financially, as Kunjabihari is about to retire from his schoolteacher’s job and Thokchom, being the eldest among the siblings, contributed largely to the family’s earnings. They have, so far, spent Rs 10 lakh for the treatment, but they could pull through, thanks to generous contribution from well-wishers, and support from other nurses from Manipur working in different hospitals across the city. The  , too, offered financial help. 
 
 “We have been swaying between hope and despair. My daughter, with the help of doctors in INK, fought off death miraculously. The battle is, however, not yet over. She will now have to undergo speech and movement therapy,” Kunjabihari told TOI. “We alone could not have borne the expense. I wish we could continue her speech and movement therapy in a facility like INK. But as we are drained out financially, we have to take her back to Manipur.”
 
 
