HYDERABAD: The   planned for Tuesday turned out to be a damp squib with most cabbies staying away from the   organised to protest unjust taxi aggregators. Observers attributed the thin turnout to the severe financial crisis haunting scores of drivers and the fear of being blocked by aggregators among many. 

 This was the second such strike call given by cab drivers in the last few months to highlight their issues. 
 
 While the first strike had hit commuters hard, on Tuesday, not many commuters were inconvenienced. Barring a few hours in the morning, travellers said that the rest of the day there was a steady flow of cars. 
 
 "On learning about the  ' strike, I had decided to hitch a ride to my office. However, when I opened the app to check the availability, I was pleasantly surprised to see that there were several cabs in my locality," said K Saichand, a techie working at Hi-Tec City.
 
 Members of the Telangana Cabs' Association (TCA) that called for the strike, attributed the lukewarm response to the lack of support extended by the Telangana Cab Drivers' and Owners' Association and the Telangana State Cabs' Association. 
 
 "We wanted to do something for our deceased friend, that's the reason we called for the strike. We also wanted to people to know of the difficulties we are faced with," said M Sunil, president, TCA, speaking about the cabbie who recently killed himself. He confessed that not more than 50% of city cab drivers participated in the strike on Tuesday. He said that the strike would continue on Wednesday, the poor show on Tuesday notwithstanding. 
 
 Syed Nizamuddin, president of the Telangana Cabs' and Bus Operators' Association (TSCBOA) said that the issue is unlikely to be resolved unless the government intervenes. "Taxi aggregators are sending out messages to the drivers saying that they have the support of the government and that the police and drivers should not disturb their business. Most of the drivers are still reeling under the financial crisis that the last strike caused and are in no position to go against Ola and Uber. Also, aggregators are blocking the devices of those drivers participating in the strike. So, unless the government intervenes, this issue will not be resolved," said Nizamuddin. 
 
 Even as TCA members said three cab drivers were taken into preventive custody by police at Gachibowli when they tried to block vehicles of other drivers, police denied taking any such action.
 
