MUMBAI: In a coordinated pre-dawn action, the police in Pune, Nagpur and Panaji detained 21 suspects for 
  of an army recruitment exam held on Sunday. The joint action was led by Thane police’s crime branch, which detected the  . 

 The detainees include a retired army officer and a senior paramilitary officer. Army and police sources confirmed that the leaked papers matched with the original papers set by the army recruitment board. The paper was being circulated through a cellphone messaging service to the beneficiaries, police said. The recruitments were being conducted for the posts of soldiers (general duty, clerk and tradesmen). The education qualifications for the jobs ranged from Std 8-12 pass. 
 
 A lance naik with an army depot in Khadki and the director of a private academy for services job aspirants at Paltan in Satara district were among the nine suspects detained in Pune. The remaining seven were agents and drivers who assisted the key suspects in drawing the beneficiaries, police said. Another nine suspects were detained in Nagpur and one of them, hailing from Katol tehsil in Nagpur district, is already charged in an earlier leak case. The police also rounded up 210 candidates, who were found huddled in a marriage hall in Pune’s Hudkeshwar and mugging up the answers for the questions from the papers given to them by the agents. The candidates were released after questioning. A BSF jawan was among the three suspects detained in Goa. 
 
 Investigators suspect the paper leak to be the handiwork of an organised racket involving people running coaching academies for Army job recruitments and some “insiders” familiar with the handling of exam papers. In Pune, 79 alleged beneficiaries of the leaked papers were allowed to appear for the exam considering the paucity of time and a continuing investigation. 
 
 “Two of the key suspects behind the activity in Pune (the Phaltan academy director and the lance naik) were found dictating questions from the leaked paper to the beneficiaries at a multi-purpose hall at Phursungi, Hadapsar, when we moved in around 1.30am,” a police officer, who was part of the action, told TOI. 
 
 It appears that the lance naik secured the leaked paper from someone in Nagpur on a cellphone messaging service for two nephews taking the CEE, and then extended the ambit of the leak. 
 
 (With inputs from: Shrutika Sukhi, Thane; Murari Shetye, Panaji; and Shishir Arya, Nagpur)
 
