BANDA: The Right to Education Act 2009 that makes it the government’s duty to provide free and compulsory education for all children up to class VIII touches a shameful low in   where about 1,000 children are enrolled in about a dozen primary and secondary education schools but remain deprived of education in absence of teachers all year, because of fear of dacoits.

 In the absence of teachers, children have to open school gates. Given acute poverty in the area, mid-day meal prepared by the local caretaker is an attraction that assures their attendance. A class IV student of Sundar Ka Purwa village, Neeraj tells TOI, “I have to open the school gate as the teacher never shows up.” He shows the lock and keys of the classroom which is empty and has no mat, no teacher and no study material. There is wild growth of grass in the toilets as proof of their never getting used.
 
 These schools are located at a close distance of 2-3km each in Fatehganj area of Naraini. The area is notorious for dacoits who have allegedly been threatening and looting teachers in the past. “Only a year ago, a teacher was kidnapped and thrashed by the dacoits, which is why rarely any teacher shows up in these schools. Worst hit are female teachers who don’t dare to show up even once. I come to teach here often but other teachers are missing”, said Dheerendra Singh, an assistant teacher in a primary school. Villagers complained that in many government schools, authorised teachers have hired private people to sign fake attendance, while they keep missing classes.
 
 Suraj Kumar of Bagholan village said, “The teachers' salary is around Rs 30,000 and they hire random people at just about Rs 1,500-2,000 to teach here. For fear of dacoits, they don't want to come and ask needy people to mark attendance on their behalf."
 
 This has ruined teaching system in Naraini as according to villagers the dummy teachers are not well educated. A disappointed Ram Babu cribbed, “What will these high school drop-outs teach our children? In Godibaba Purwa village, the teacher has only passed class VIII. Candidates in Bundelkhand never include education in their election manifesto, nor make any efforts to provide security to teachers. Who will come to teach here in such a terror prone area?"
 
