For the third time,   is all set to lead the Kerala team in the   tournament that is to begin on October 6. Kerala doesn’t have a great track record in the tournament so far and what’s more, the team is in Group B this year with tough opponents like Gujarat and Sourashtra. However, Sachin is hopeful of a good showing and speaks about how domestic cricket has changed for the good in the State. Of course, he has some personal reasons too to smile!

 
 
 
 We are determined to do better than last year. Every time, we finish third or fourth in the group, missing the qualifier by two or three points. But, we just played the KSCA trophy at Mysore and did well in our group, which had Mumbai, Punjab and Gujarat. We won against Mumbai, we got a lead against Punjab and we lost to Gujarat. Moreover, after our new coach Dave Whatmore joined the squad, the preparations have improved. The Ranji Trophy camp started on September 21 at Greenfield stadium, Thiruvananthapuram and I am hopeful that for Ranji this year, we will display an improved performance.
 
 
 
 
 Yes. We need time to mingle with everyone and understand the coach and captain, to do well and perform as a team. Unless we have a stable leadership, it would be difficult. I guess it’s probably for this reason that we are doing well in the shorter formats of the game.
 
 
 
 
 He is a hugely successful coach with abundant experience, and even has a World Cup to his credit. Initially, I was under the impression that he would be an extremely tough coach to be with. But he is very simple and down to earth, believes in working hard, and is very supportive. I also thought he will take time to bond with all the players, but he has struck a friendly chord in no time. He is one of us now. He always tells us to give quality focus onto our training, whatever be the amount of time we are investing in it. 
 
 
 
 
 For the past four or five years, things have changed for the better. Many good players have come in through IPL. Earlier, if you were a Kerala player, you had to perform well at the State level, South Zone, Duleep Trophy and the like to finally get noticed. Not anymore. If you perform well for one or two years in IPL, you can grab a spot in the India A team. Moreover, people watch these matches a lot more and your name becomes familiar. Thanks to the changed circumstances, I now know many kids who dare to think about the game as a profession and decide to work towards it even after Class 10.
 
 
 
 
  was the Kerala team captain, when I debuted in 2009 and since then, he has been someone who has always backed me. He has also been my mentor. Something that sticks to my mind is when he gave me a pep talk, way back in 2013, while I was part of the Rajasthan Royals squad. He asked me to never give up on my dreams, and assured me that I have got what it takes to play for the country. It’s something that’s etched onto my mind and drives me to do well.
 
 
 
 
 There were talks, and Kerala Cricket Association is very supportive too. But we have to wait for BCCI’s permission. He is now taking the fitness test for the Kerala team, in Chennai. We were also training together and I have seen that he is doing well, overall. Hope everything falls into place soon. We all miss having him in the team, as he has always been a morale booster.
 
 
 
 
 We got married in January this year, and Anna is a dentist. Her due date falls in mid-December and we are quite excited, of course. After marriage, people tell me that I am a lot less angry (laughs). I also feel I have learnt to be a lot more patient, which feels great. With fatherhood, there are so many more responsibilities coming my way and I’m thrilled. 
 
