LUCKNOW: A day after chopped body parts and severed head of a baby were found at two different places in the city, recovery of a   in PGI area triggered panic on Thursday.

 Subhash, resident of Badi Lal Kurti, employed at a private hospital was going to work on Thursday when he saw a crowd around the transformer in  . After he saw the chopped human foot, wrapped in a green cloth. he called the police.
 
 Police suspected that some hospital/nursing home staff might have dumped the foot after cutting it during operation. ASP (north) Vijay Dhull told TOI, that prima facie it appears that the human-foot which was recovered was wrapped in a green-coloured cloth which possibly gives an indication that it was dumped after amputation but that and whether it was of a male or female’s could be ascertained only after medical examination.
 
 Dhull also said details have been sought of nearby hospital/ nursing homes about amputation of human foot in the recent past. Chopped body parts and severed head of a baby were recovered at two different places in a polythene of same kind, which made it seem that a baby boy was beheaded at one place and body parts dumped at another place. 
 
 Lucknow: A day after chopped body parts and severed head of a baby were found at two different places in the city, recovery of a chopped human foot in PGI area triggered panic on Thursday.
 
 According to police, Subhash, resident of Badi Lal Kurti, employed at a private hospital was going to work on Thursday morning when he saw a crowd around the transformer in Amrapali colony. He stopped out of curiosity and saw the chopped human foot, wrapped in a green cloth. 
 
 He called the police. A police team reached the place for investigation. Police suspected that some hospital/nursing home staff might have dumped the foot after cutting it during operation.
 
 ASP (north) Vijay Dhull told TOI, that prima facie it appears that the human-foot which was recovered was wrapped in a green-coloured cloth which possibly gives an indication that it was dumped after amputation but that and whether it was of a male or female’s could be ascertained only after medical examination.
 
 Dhull also said details have been sought of nearby hospital/ nursing homes about amputation of human foot in the recent past.
 
 Chopped body parts and severed head of a baby were recovered at two different places in a polythene of same kind, which made it seem that a baby boy was beheaded at one place and body parts dumped at another place. 
 
 Meanwhile, ASP (trans-gomti) Durgesh Kumar said, “We will wait for 72 hours before launching a search to identify the baby and its parents.”
 
 Gudamba police inspector R K Singh said, “We have not come across any missing complaint filed in the city of a two/three month-year-old baby boy so far and may have been from some other district.”
 
