 recently organized its 70th Foundation Day Celebrations, where the college felicitated its alumni, teachers and non-teaching staff. The event also saw the felicitation of  , Minister of State for Home Affairs, and  , president, Central Tibetan Administration,  . The event began with the acting principal   making some important announcements, and cultural performances by the students. 
 
  
  
  Rama Sharma, while addressing the crowd said, "We are soon going to have our own Radio Community Centre. There is only one college which is better than ours and that is SRCC. I think they have been able to beat us only because they have a swimming pool and we don’t. So I request the members of the DAV Committee to make this possible for us. We also wish to renovate our existing hostels and construct a new hostel for girls."
 
  
  Members of  , the Indian classical dance society of the college performed at the event (BCCL/  )
 
  
 
  Due to the ongoing session of the Lok Sabha, Kiren Rijiju was not able to reach the college on time and missed a major part of the event. As he arrived, he apologized to everyone and said, "We all want to discuss important topics in the Lok Sabha, but today, I was hoping that the house would get adjourned. I was thinking, 'Koi toh kuch kar de taki main jaldi se college chala jaun!' I took admission at Hansraj in 1991 and after my graduation, I did my LLB from Faculty of Law. I wanted to work with a law firm but did not get the chance. I wanted to become an advocate. Woh sapna adhura reh gaya," he said, adding, "I think when someone tells me that they are also from Hansraj, I develop a special bond with them. I am always there for my college and whenever I come here, I feel that I have returned home. If I can’t make my college proud, then I will certainly not do anything to disrepute the institution."
 
  
  Binod Kumar Singh, Inspector General of Police, UP (BCCL/ Samik Sen)
 
  
  Lobsang Sangay, who was also felicitated by the college at the event, said, "My grades were not that great. I did English (Hons) from the college and would rarely take part in discussions in my class. I remember, in my third year, I had requested my principal to grant me a special permission to appear for the exams because I was fighting for a cause. I was part of protests by the Tibetan people. I was always protesting outside the Chinese embassy, and if you would combine my attendance at Chanakya Puri police station and my attendance in class, it would then be 100%. I think, if a student who got third division in class can become the president of the Tibetan administration, then the present batch of students will surely go a long way because they have proved that they are the best among all by taking admission in this college." 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  Rama Sharma, acting principal of the college welcomed Lobsang Sangay, president, Central Tibetan Administration, Dharamshala (BCCL/ Samik Sen)
 
 
