BENGALURU: Three minors were arrested on Tuesday for allegedly killing a 15-year-old boy outside his school campus in Yelahanka, north Bengaluru. 

 N Harsha Raj was found with a stab wound in his chest, some distance away from his Government   on a road nea r  , on Monday afternoon. He succumbed to his injuries later in hospital. 
 
  Yelahanka police said a 16-year-old boy, who was a student of Gov ernment High School till last year, and two classmates of Harsha, both aged 15, were arrested for the crime. All three are residents of Yelahanka Old Town. 
 
  Squabbles between the boys over trivial issues, including the boys' friendship with a girl studying in a nearby college, is said to have resulted in the murder. 
 
  "One of the accused was not happy with Harsha talking to the girl. The accused trio told Harsha he had no business talking to her," police said. 
 
  The 16-year-old boy had failed his SSLC exam last year and was getting ready to reappear for the exam this year. He worked as a cook's help in a nearby hostel and used a knife from the kitchen to stab Harsha, investigators said. 
 
  School Day celebrations were under way even as the boys chilled out. They had arranged for a big bottle of a popular soft drink, which was found half-full, in the school compound later in the day. Harsha was feted with the Best Volleyball Player award during the celebrations and the girl walked into the school to congratulate him, heightening tensions between the boys, police said. 
 
  Harsha, however, were dismissive of their objections. "Buddy, I am not into anything. She just congratulated me for the award. Take it easy, machchi," was all Harsha told his former schoolmate, a police source said. But the word machchi, slang for brother-in-law, further angered the accused. 
 
  "He became angry when Harsha addressed him as machchi. The senior juvenile asked Harsha on what basis he had addressed him as machchi. That's how a serious argument broke out," an investigating officer said. The verbal altercation happened inside the school campus and the elder boy dared Harsha to meet him near the railway tr acks to settle the matter. 
 
 "Harsha never thought he would be attacked. The arguments near the railway tracks turned nasty and the boys were soon trading blows. The elder boy pulled out the kitchen knife he was carrying and stabbed Harsha on the left side of his chest," police added.
 
 The three accused boys, too, sustained minor injuries and rushed to Yelahanka Government Hospital, leaving Harsha writhing on the road. One of them had suffered a cut on his left ear, police said.
 
 "We will hand over the accused juveniles by Tuesday evening to officials from the remand home," Northeast DCP P S Harsha said, declining to reveal investigation details. 
 
