In the latest episode of  ,   is seen telling someone about the security of Malhotra house and that it is very important.
 
  He meets   in the corridor and tells her that the video between him and Ragini is fake. Anika says it doesn't matter. Anika tells him that Ragini is not a poor girl rather a fake and manipulative girl trying to trap Shivaay.
  
  Shivaay doesn't listen to her but Anika finds Ragini clicking selfies in her room and asks Shivaay to see it for himself. But Ragini senses Shivaay is coming towards her room, so she pretends to be talking over phone. An angry Anika starts pouting and clicking selfies but Shivaay gets angry and breaks her phone.
  
  Gauri is seen talking to her mother's picture and how she wants to go meet her but is held because of Om, who doesn't give her any reason why she shouldn't leave.
  
  Om comes to the room and asks Gauri about her allergy, he is about to give her medicine when the picture falls on the ground from their hand. She gets upset and asks him the reason for being so nice with her. She tells Om that she has forgiven him.
  
  Khanna hands over a parcel to daadi but she says she didn’t order anything and Pinky also says the same. Both read the address on the parcel and are surprised to know that it is for their mansion and not any individual.
  
  In a hotel room, Tej is drinking and waiting for Svetlana. Tej has an asthama attack and Svetlana decides to call a doctor but is stopped by Tej since nobody knows he is with her.
  
  Back at the Oberoi mansion, Gauri informs Bhavya about how much Om has changed and also   has become sweet and caring. transformed from a bull to a cow. Bhavya thinks it is a plot by Anika to bring both Rudra and Omkara closer to their wives.
  
  Anika enters the kitchen and tells the girl that it is true. But she says Om's feelings for Gauri are for real and not out of guilt.
  
  She also tells Gauri and Bhavya about how the video of Ragini and Shivaay is morphed. The three girls decide to expose Ragini in front of Shivaay soon.
  
  
 
  
  Pinky reaches the hotels and asks the manager that she needs to speak with Tej as his wife is unwell. Pinky bribes the guy and manages to search the hotel booking. Pinky calls up Jhanvi and says Tej is not in Delhi.
  
  The boys hear a baby’s cry and wonder about it. The girls also get together in hall to apologise to their husbands. Om, Rudra and Shivaay go to check on the parcel and wonder what is in it. And are shocked to find a baby in it.
  
  Just then Pinky informs Jhanvi that Tej is having an extra marital affair with Svetlana. Jhanvi doesn't agree but Pinky shows her the tag of the hotel.
  
  The boys are shocked at seeing the baby and then read the note which mentions that baby is fathered by one of the Oberoi sons.
  
  Shivaay and Rudra look at each other and then they all think it is Rudra's son but nobody aceepts.
  
  Keep watching this space for all the updates.
