LUCKNOW: The   class X and XII examinations slated from March16 are set to begin amid lack of preparations by the authorities. As many as 1.02 lakh students of classes X and XII will appear in the exam at 149 centers in the state capital—57,907 are registered of class X and 44,754 of class XII. Though board officials claimed all preparations are in place for hassle-free examinations, scarcity of invigilators will be a cause of worry in Lucknow. 

 The board has appointed around 4,800 invigilators for smooth conduct of examinations in 149 centres—19 government schools, 80 government-aided and 50 self finance schools. There are 789 recognised UP board schools in the city. Out of these, 51 are government run, 101 are government-aided while 637 are private schools (affiliated by UP board). 
 
 In government and government-aided schools, there are enough invigilators, while self-finance centres put their own teachers on duty as invigilators. Issuing instructions to principals of all schools, Lucknow’s district inspector of school (DIOS) Umesh Tripathi said, “All schools that have appointed their own teachers for invigilation will have to relieve them and in case of non-compliance, strict action will be taken against the principals.’’ The officials said they have not sought help of primary teachers for invigilation this time. 
 
 On Thursday, class X students have a compulsory paper (Hindi) where full attendance is expected. “It will be very difficult to conduct the exams with shortage of teachers on invigilation duty. Immediate arrangements must be made to rope in primary school teachers so that the exam is conducted smoothly,’’ said the principal of a government college. 
 
 There are also complaints of teachers getting their invigilation duty fixed in schools in which they teach. A source said this will encourage use of unfair means. “We have already issued directions in this regard,’’ said an official.
 
 Out of 149, 11 have been identified as highly sensitive exam centres while 28 are marked as sensitive. These centres face high risk of candidates using unfair means in connivance with education officials. 
 
