KOCHI: Despite the non-availability of public transport due to the statewide hartal called by the BJP, the first mass contact programme for migrant workers, Pariharam 2017, in the district witnessed huge participation on Sunday. 

 The   Secondary School, Perumbavoor, hosted the event in which migrant workers thronged in large numbers to convey their problems to the district administration. 
 
 The event saw participation of 1,100 workers from various parts of the district. 
 
 Many of them travelled from Kakkanad to Perumbavoor by auto to attend the event. They registered complaints, underwent medical check-ups and applied for Aadhaar cards. 
 
 Meanwhile, the labour department received 50 complaints, including 14 against contractors for not paying salary and 36 related to non-availability of labour cards. The complaints were handed over to Ernakulam rural superintendent for further action. 
 
 Many workers also opened new bank accounts. Five banks --  , Indian Bank, Federal Bank, SBI and Union Bank -- extended their helping hand to process 160 accounts of migrant workers who find it difficult to send money to their native places. 
 
 As many as 20 counters of   were opened to receive applications for Aadhaar cards from workers who have address proof such as election identity cards. The counters enrolled 470 workers for Aadhaar cards.
 
 The medical camps provided blood test and vaccination facilities. Symptoms of tuberculosis and leprosy were reported in 12 workers each. Suspected hepatitis cases were also reported and all of them were given medicines at the camp. Vaccination was given to 25 children. 
 
 District collector Mohammed Y Safirulla and other officials spoke to workers with the help of translators who know both Malayalam and other North Indian languages.
 
 “The mass contact programme held for residents in   recently saw participation of people below 900. We will conduct a sitting for migrant workers again to address their problems. We have decided to set up a labour facilitation centre which will function as a single window system to forward the complaints of workers to respective departments,” said Shajahan Shamsudheen, Muvattupuzha RDO.
 
 “Besides, an employees’ state insurance (ESI) facility will also be provided to workers as many are deprived of ESI and provident fund benefits. We will hold discussion with ESI and labour officials regarding this,” said the RDO. 
 
 Labour, health, police department and Kerala state legal services authority officials were part of the programme, which started at 10am and concluded at 6pm. 
 
