When   hit the famous 120 against   in the first ODI at the   stadium in Gahunje on January 15, he became the only Pune cricketer to play an international match at his home ground.

 While the local boy's efforts have become the talk of the town, he being alone on top is certainly a food for thought for the city's cricket fraternity. Around 20 cricket academies and clubs in Pune offer coaching to players ranging from 10 years and above. Each academy, on an average, has around 120 players aiming to make the cut to the state teams. But the numbers don't translate into enough good players for the state Ranji team, forget India reckoning.
 
 The Maharashtra Cricket Association (MCA) secretary, Riyaz Bagwan, agrees that MCA juniors, especially the Under-14 and Under-16 players, are still a work in progress and at present it is their weak area.
 
 "Every year, MCA conducts about 480 invitation league matches for all age groups. I guess no other association conducts so many matches for their players. Our juniors have won us many national and zonal trophies in the past seven eight years. It brought us the  's best association award thrice in 10 years," Bagwan said.
 
 "Having said that, I feel our Under-14 and Under-16 players have not done anything remarkable in the past couple of years. This is one area we are working on to improve and given the system we have, we will achieve it sooner or later," he added.
 
 Kedar Joglekar, the head coach at  , believes the youngsters are not getting significant match practice because there is hardly any school cricket left in the city. "There was a time when inter-school and inter-collegiate matches used to help selectors in picking up state teams," Joglekar said.
 
 At present, only Zilla Parishad organizes inter-school matches. But they don't give remarkable takeaways to cricketers.
 
 Started seven years ago, the Varroc Vengsarkar Academy (VVCA) in Thergaon has seen many of its players in the state squads. Same is the case with Ajay Shirke's Cadence Cricket Academy.
 
 "We feel our players need more match practice. We can't blame anyone for not conducting matches for us. Instead, we organize our own tournaments and invite prominent teams from the state. We also organize matches within our academies, and based on the performances, we select our teams," said Raju Kotwal, head coach at VVCA.
 
 Only the administrative limitations is not pulling Maharashtra cricket behind. Lack of dedication and absenteeism is a regular feature at the professional coaching academies.
 
 "Every day, about 25% of our kids are absent. There is some serious problem with the attitude of the players and their parents. Everybody wants their son to play   right from day one. They look at Jadhav's success, but they don't see how much hard work has gone behind his success," said Joglekar.
 
 Since most of the academies are paid, budding cricketers take their places in the academy for granted.
 
 At present, VVCA and Cadence are the biggest feeder academies for the MCA. Over 40% players making it to MCA squads (all age groups) from Pune are from them. These academies offer free coaching and the selection of players is done through trials in April every year.
 
 "Since we have a strict selection criteria, we expect our players to be disciplined and dedicated. We expect them to have 90% attendance and we review their performance every year. Those who don't show any progress, are asked to leave," said Harshal Pathak, a coach at Cadence.
 
 Former Maharashtra Ranji coach and former national selector Surendra Bhave feels other than organizing inter-school and inter-collegiate matches, the focus should be on having multi-day cricket.
 
 "The inter-school and university matches should be multi-day cricket and not 12-14 overs, like it happens these days. I am all for T20 cricket and also believe to change with time, but we need multiday cricket at every level," he said.
 
 "Things changed with the arrival of academies and organised coaching. A substitute to inter-school cricket was provided by them. Yet, I feel inter-school and collegiate cricket can provide a lot more innings to a budding cricketer for extended exposure to competitive cricket. I see a bigger role for established clubs in organizing quality events for youngsters. A lot of Gymkhanas are now taking initiative to organize quality tournaments, which is a very good thing.PYC Hindu Gymkhana is also planning to organize a couple of quality tournaments soon," Bhave said.
 
 Pune's cricketing rival Mumbai has a strong base of junior cricketers and is the main reason for its strength is school and college cricket. If Pune adopts the Mumbai culture, the city will not have to wait for another decade for a Kedar Jadhav to play in front of home crowd.
 
