THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The   team probing into the sexual harassment allegations against Kovalam MLA   is likely to   the MLA as part of the probe. 

 The police on Friday filed a fresh report before the local court, informing it about addition of fresh charges pertaining to   (376 IPC) and stalking (354D IPC) in the first information report. The police also recorded statements of several persons in connection with the case. This include close relatives of the  , her husband, brother and neighbours. 
 
 Kollam city police commissioner S Ajeetha Begum, who is heading the probe team, said that the police have filed an application before the assembly speaker P Sreeramakrishnan seeking permission to question the MLA. 
 
 However, sources in the legislative assembly said such a permission was not needed for the police to carry out the interrogation. The permission was needed mainly in two scenarios – when the assembly session is going on and when the questioning has to be done at the MLA Hostel. Since such a scenario does not exist here, permission was not needed, the source said, adding that in fact they were yet to receive such a request from the police. 
 
 The police also carried out the procedural medical examination of the complainant at General Hospital, Neyyattinkara, on Friday. 
 
 “We would be holding a high-level meeting again soon to decide on the future course of the probe, including the questioning and potential arrest of the accused,” said an officer, who is part of the investigation. The officer also said that the police on Friday received the copy of the confidential statement the complainant gave before the local magistrate. 
 
 “The statement she had given to the court and the one given to us do not have any contradictions,” the officer added. 
 
 Meanwhile, the case has put the Congress leadership in the state on the back foot. It is learned that there is strong   against the MLA. The police had even received an audio clip of an alleged telephonic conversation between the woman and the MLA, in which she is heard raising serious allegations against him. 
 
 The woman’s brother has reportedly confirmed her voice when the police recorded his statement on Friday. KPCC chief M M Hassan has said that Vincent has expressed his willingness to resign if needed. 
 
 
