In a bid to bring like-minded people together, a city-based  , has come up with a new concept. Called  , it aims to connect people through events like a recent trek to   that took place last Sunday. And with over 4,000 participants, the event not only succeeded in its goal, but also earned itself a place in the Golden Book of World  , for Largest Group Trekking trip. 

 
 
 
 Making the event a big hit, 4029 people between the age group of 16-28, enrolled for the event. Speaking about the turnout, Harsh Kataria, the founder of the NGO, says, “With a lot of promotion over social media and word of mouth, we were able to spread the news of the event in a big way. The registration fee was kept minimal at `100 including the cost of commuting and breakfast too.” 
 
 
 
 
 To keep the trekkers engaged, a number of games were planned. Shruti Soni, one of the participants, says, “The game where participants had to carry a two kilo sack for a stretch, without halting, was a big hit. Participants were awarded on the spot. Water stalls and free lemonade kiosks were set up every 500 metres.” Cultural programmes like dancing, singing and zumba were also organised at the hill top, and there were a number of food stalls along the track. Free lemonade and wafers were distributed to participants and they were also made to plant saplings along the way. The enthusiastic crowd also attempted two more records on the spot. One was for the largest group attempting a mannequin challenge with 800 participants and the second, a record of fastest 100 hi-fives.
 
 
 
 To ensure safety of each participant and volunteer, the organisers ensured that besides ambulances, police personnel were deployed along the track. Pritesh Goyal, the co-founder of the NGO says, “Over 130 police personnel were deployed along the track. Bouncers and security guards were there to ensure security.”
 
 
 
 
 The event took place at Janapav Kuti, a scenic hill located around 45 kms from Indore, on the Indore-Mumbai highway. The place is considered sacred by the Hindu community and volunteer Simran Tuteja feels that was a contributing factor in drawing such a large crowd. Volunteer Prakhar Bahad says, “We narrated the stories of 12 rivers originating from the tank situated on this hill, to participants. Amongst 12 rivers are Chambal, Nakheri and Saraswati.”
