Concerned over stagnation or even a decline in the growth of agriculture and allied sectors, the  , has called for devising strategies to deal with the adverse conditions affecting them to revive the  .

 “It is a great challenge and formidable task to arrest the decline and reverse the slowing growth of the  . Though agriculture and allied sectors recorded a growth rate of 1.43% in 2012-13 of the 12th plan period, it witnessed a negative growth rate during the following three years ending at a -2.9% decline in 2015-16,“ the review said.
 
 
 
 
 The price variability , it said, has increased with sharp swings in both product and input prices. “Markets have been affected by macroeconomic factors and adverse weather conditions. Extreme weather conditions like drought and other climate variabilities have had a major impact on the agricultural sector,“ the review pointed out.
 
 Citing Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) report which put the rainfall deficiency in Kerala at 34% and 61% during south-west and north-east monsoon season respectively , the review said the state needed to improve its irrigation network to equip itself for adverse weather conditions.The water storage in drams has also registered a signifiant drop.
 
 “The state has taken measures for rejuvenating agriculture, and among those on the anvil are increased public   in agriculture, promotion of self-sufficiency in production of vegetables, protection of paddy fields and improving research and extension services,“ it said.
 
 Elaborating on various crops, the review said the rice production has not re sponded positively to interventions through state plan and RKVY, calling for more proactive steps. Among the major initiatives for promotion of rice during 2016-17 were upland rice cultivation in 2,520 hectares, amendment in paddy landwetland conservation act, cultivation in fallow lands and special projects in Aranmula punja.
 
 In case of coconut, there has been a decline in production from 5,947 million nuts to 5,873 million nuts between 2014-15 and 2015-16. The major reasons were prevalence of root wilt disease, poor crop management and existence of senile and unproductive palms. Pepper production also affected by low productivity and various diseases, while declining price of rubber was a cause of concern, which calls for `strengthening and reorientation of price stabilisation fund'.
 
 The stress, the review said, should also be on collective farming through Kudumbashree and promotion of organic farming for which strengthening of participatory guarantee system, good agriculture practices, quality control laboratories and other certification and incentive system were to be worked out.
 
