Lucknow: No road no vote. Residents of Parsauli   in   resorted to protest on Monday when the constituency went to  . Tired of false promises made by politicians, the entire village boycotted the assembly elections, and all attempts, be it by the district magistrate or Rani Garima Sinh and Rani Ameeta Sinh to pacify them went in vain. There are 649 registered voters in Parsauli and a population of over 2,000. 

 “Every time, politicians seek votes in the name of development and promise to build roads, provide water and get toilets constructed but once they win, they never turn to this village,’’ said an agitated Ved Prakash Mishra, 47, a driver in Sanjay Gandhi hospital. 
 
 Hriday Ram, 25, pursuing bachelors from a college affiliated to Faizabad University said, “There is not a single toilet in the village. Because of bad roads, children are unable to go to school and accidents are common.’’ 
 
 Running from pillar to post to get a proper road constructed, the villagers on January 14 decided unanimously to boycott polls. At the entrance of the village, they had put up two huge banners calling for the boycott. “The roads in this village were last constructed 30 years back by none other than Sanjay Gandhi. In fact, Rahul Gandhi visited the village in 2004 and walked in knee-deep water. He assured us all help but nothing changed,’’ lamented Bihari Lal Yadav, 35, who runs a mobile shop. 
 
 Adamant villagers on Monay forced the administration to visit them, but they shooed away the district magistrate. “We had put up the boycott banner on January 18. If the administration was so concerned, they should have got the roads constructed by now. Two days back, when they saw anger brewing, they put filled potholes with pebbles,’’ said Rajrani Shukla, 70, who broke her ankle after she fell on the road. 
 
 Echoing her views, 45-year-old Phoolwati said, “Why cast vote when we are left to suffer? If we boycott, it is not our loss, it is the loss of politicians who come begging for votes at the time of elections. They must realize this.’’ 
 
 
