JAIPUR: The only destination for subsidized food to urban poor —   — is failing to tantalise taste buds in spite of government’s plan to increase its outreach from 12 to 190 cities.

 Aimed to satiate palate of people struggling to fulfill three-time meals requirement, the ambitious scheme is gradually losing its charm as many have started complaining about food quality and repetitive menu.
 
 Expected to sell 100 plates inclusive of breakfast, lunch and dinner, the Rasoi staff many a times is finding it an uphill task at many locations. Only 184 plates out of 300 were sold at Gopalpura van Monday.
 
 “People don’t like taste of the food served to them. Majority of customers who eat here once do no revisit. Only students are eating food at these outlets, while poor have not found the taste satisfying,” said a NGO staff deployed at  .
 
 As per local self-government department of Rajasthan, which is nodal agency for the scheme, meals are cooked and served by staff trained in hospitality. However, many people have lost faith as wire in food was allegedly reported by customers.
 
 “Who would want to risk life for cheap food? Several incidents of wire in food have been reported. The issue has been brought to the notice of our seniors, but it was ignored,” said Nepal Chaudhary who is deployed at a mobile van at Gopal Pura.
 
 Chaudhary added, “I also wrote a letter to the chief minister mentioning about the anomalies in the project few days back as it’s sad that purpose of project is not solved yet.”
 
 Nearly two months ago when chief minister Vasundhara Raje flagged off these mobile kitchens, a menu including delicacies made of wheat, rice, corn, nutritious grains and vegetables was fixed for urban poor.
 
 The trust is also serving staple Rajasthani dishes such as Gehu ka Mitha Khichda, Besan Gatta Pulao, jawar ki   and   at economy rates. However, organisers too have realised the menu is not accepted by masses and therefore, started serving regular dishes.
 
 Project manager of   Jaspreet Singh said, “We have changed our menu and started serving food items such as chawal, daal, rajma, which taste familiar to customer. After Holi, some locations counted low footfalls. However, it is expected to pick up within 15 days.”
 
 He added, “Mobile kitchens parked at SMS Hospital, Fortis Hospital are receiving tremendous response. It would be increased at other places too once people adapt the taste.”
 
 
