NEW DELHI: With the civic elections scheduled to be held in April, AAP is building a case against the current corporations for their failure to carry out several development work in the city. The matter was raised during the ongoing budget session on Thursday where several MLAs complained of their funds remaining unused as the corporations were refusing to carry out any work sanctioned by an MLA. Speaker Ram Niwas Goel has summoned the commissioners of all three corporations and the director (local bodies) on March 14 to discuss the issue.

 “I was scheduled to meet the east corporation commissioner on March 14 along with director (local bodies) on the same issue. However, seeing how all MLAs are facing the same problem, I have asked the commissioners of the south and north corporations to come as well,” Goel announced in the Assembly.
 
 Although the issue was not scheduled to be taken up on Thursday, the speaker allowed the discussion after several MLAs insisted that the corporations’ failure was giving the government a bad name. Many MLAs said their constituents were unhappy with the work of the corporation but because not everyone knew which agency was responsible for what work, they were getting angry with the government and this was likely to cost AAP votes.
 
 Malviya Nagar MLA Somnath Bharti said that approximately Rs 125 crore of   was lying with the corporations, which had systematically refused to take up any work sanctioned by AAP MLAs. “More than 95% of the visible work in any area are to be done by the corporation but people come to the MLAs as we are the most approachable. Neither is the corporation doing any work nor is it returning the money. Councillors are, in fact, looting the corporation because of which they now have huge houses and vehicles,” he said.
 
 Akhileshpati Tripathi, MLA from Model Town, said the projects for which he sanctioned funds in 2013 had still not been completed and, in fact, where the corporation had claimed to have finished work, residents had reported that work had not even started. 
 
 Sarita Singh, MLA from Rohtas Nagar, claimed that over the past two years, Rs 7 crore of the Rs 8-crore corpus was lying with the corporation that had not completed any of the projects sanctioned by her.
 
