 is the author of ‘The BE Book’. In an exclusive interview, she tells us about a seven-day 'BE' plan that can help one invite miracles in life, in 2017. 

 "To BE or not to BE, that is the question. I look around and see busy people going from one task to another, in a rush to win what I call the “do race”. What if, rather than having a “To Do” list, you choose to have a “To BE” list instead? And what if, on that list, you were to select a set of inspiring  , words that give you a way of being that invites miracles into your life?," she says.
 
 Mynoo shares a 7-day BE plan that you can use by choosing your BE word for each day. She says, "Simply BE that way as you go about doing whatever requires to be done. You’ll achieve results more quickly than you had envisaged, plus you’ll enjoy the journey of getting there. By the end of the week, you will start to manifest miracles. Ive handpicked seven BE Words for 2017. I have experienced the power of these and I wish the same for you."
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 This calls you to stop trying to rationalise or justify anything; you just make your choice to trust. Once you unconditionally accept what is, and do not engage in any unnecessary dialogue or gossip.; its easier to focus. All reluctance or hesitation disappears and you simply get on with what requires to be done.
 
 
 
 
 
 Turn up your “wonder alert meter.” As you go about your day normally, notice where you are and what you are doing when you feel the corners of your mouth turning themselves up into a beaming smile. When I first did this, I noted that it began quite slowly. Within a few hours, though, I found myself beaming a smile out almost every hour. By the end of the day, that beaming smile was happening several times an hour. I realised that when I choose to live my life being present to the magic in it, I come alive. My experiences are filled with so much wonder that it makes me youthful, arouses a childlike curiosity and unleashes the genius within me. 
 
 
 Create a simple visualisation process; see yourself owning all of your gifts and talents. See yourself walking through doors and hallways, meeting people with your gifts, sharing them widely, enriching their lives and receiving the same degree of enrichment for yourself. You will find that the more freely and more often you share your own gifts, the more gifts you will receive.
 
 
  Here is how I did this for myself: to my morning meditation I added a process that brings in the cosmic white light from the top of my crown. I allow it to flow into me; I begin with my face and neck and allow it to work its way all the way down to my toes. Apply this to yourself. Being in the vibration of beauty not only makes you feel beautiful on the inside, it enhances this beauty so it becomes visible on the outside.
 
 
 Create a practice where every action you take elicits a reaction of gratitude and peace within you. Divide your day into segments and at the end of each segment, consider all that you’ve just experienced that you could be grateful for. The weight of the world starts to lift off your shoulders, and you experience the lightness of being in harmony.
 
 
 Visualize yourself stepping into your majestic shoes, and blooming, like a flower, into the full grandeur of your magnificence. Feel the love that you are and share it. Experience the joy of that love being reflected back to you, multiplied many times over. You will come to see that loneliness is a disease of the mind. You will uncover that you are connected to loving beings that reflect back to you what you are putting out to them, and you will see that whatever you give, you receive back magnified and multiplied. 
 
 
  Choose to be present in the moment and, as you carry on with your work and tasks throughout the day, take the time to observe whatever you become present to that makes your heart sing. It may start slowly. As the day progresses, you will notice more and more amazing occurrences that make your heart sing. Whatever you experience in life matches the vibrational frequency that you are emanating. Choosing your BE Words gives you a reference point and brings your conscious awareness to what your vibration is at any given moment in time. And at that moment, it multiplies. 
 
 
