In a first of its kind effort, Punjabi University has displayed pictorial representations of Gurmat Sangeet in its museum and art gallery.

 Principal ragas of   (SGGS) have been depicted through visuals of Harmandir Sahib, the temporal seat of the Sikhs.
 
 At Darbar Sahib, hymns are sung from the fourth quarter of the night to the second quarter.These hymns are strung to ragas on the basis of time and season.
 
 As day and night are divided into four quarters each, from SriRaga to  , there are 31 ragas in the scripture and hymns are sung in accordance with time and season.
 
 For each raga, a picture of the Golden Temple has been taken at a time of year appropriate to its playing and singing. For instance,   is recited in the third quarter of the night and in the sanctum sanctorum of the Golden Temple, hymns in this raga are recited during the fifth lunar month of Sawan (July-August).
 
 The photographs were taken by Ludhiana-based Tej  , who, in 2009, got his book, `Raga Rattan' published in Punjabi. It contains images of Golden Temple along with a short description of the nature of the raga. The book was translated by Anurag Singh, with help of other scholars.Punjabi University got around 2,100 copies published, of which nearly 500 were sold on the day of its release this month.
 
 “Visualisation of the ragas at Golden Temple engender a feeling of sublime spirituality, encouraging devotees to carry the sanctum sanctorum within their hearts. Up till now, lear ned scholars have given their expositions of various ragas in the form of Ragamala paintings. The musical measures are divided into ragas and raginis, fixing their scales, time and seasons of singing in minute detail.But this pictorial fusion is the first of its kind,“ said  , founder professor and head, Gurmat Sangeet chair, Punjabi University.
 
 Sri Guru Granth Sahib is the first holy scripture of the world compiled in 31 ragas and 31 compounded variations (misrat raagas). The founder of Sikhism, Guru Nanak accorded the highest importance to ragas.
 
 “In the sacred combination of ragas and hymns (shabads) composed by the Sikh gurus, saints (bhagats), minstrels and blessed disciples, there are 31 ragas inscribed in Sri Guru Granth Sahib with specific commandments of the Guru to sing the hymns according to specific musicology,“ said Gurnam Singh.
 
