TV heartthrob,  , who has been winning hearts with his dancing skills, recently won the adventure reality show   season 8. The actor is super glad after bagging the   trophy as the title has got nothing to do with dance and acting. 

 “It’s an awesome and great feeling. I am super happy as winning the Khatron Ke Khiladi has got nothing to do with dance or acting. This was challenging and something unexpected. Khatron Ke Khiladi gave me a chance to do something that I had never done in my life. This was not my territory and I am happy to have won the show,” said Shantanu. 
 
 When asked what will he do with the prize money and if there is something that he wishes to buy, he said, “I have given the winning amount to my parents and they will decide how to spend it. I wanted to buy a house, but the amount is not that much.”
 
 Talking about his Khatron Ke Khiladi journey, the actor described it as a lifetime experience, “Khatron Ke Khiladi has made me mentally very strong. It was a lifetime experience. I met some amazing people on the show.”
 
 The actor has learnt to be calm and that nothing is impossible in life, “I have learnt to be calm and that nothing is impossible in life. If you think in your head that you can you do it, no one can stop you from achieving your goal.”
 
 Describing the finale stunt, Shantanu said that it was a complate package and the most grand stunt, “Finale stunt was grand and included everything you can possibly think of. Be it water, height, lock/key, crashing of cars. It was a complete package of everything. I just felt so nice that I could complete the entire thing. I was nervous before the stunt, but once I started with the stunt I forgot everything,” said the Dil Dosti Dance actor. 
 
 Shantanu is all praise for the host of the show   and called him a beautiful person, “Rohit sir is a beautiful person. He knows what he is doing and he made sure even we know what we are getting into while performing a stunt. He always guided and motivated us to perform better,” shared Shantanu. 
 
 The actor bonded really well with co-contestants like  , Nia Sharma, Shibani Dandekar. "We had a blast in Spain. Once we went to a pub in Spain and dance all night especially Lopa, Nia and me. We played Punjabi songs there and danced till morning. In boys I bonded well with everyone," concluded Shantanu.
 
