PATNA: Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences ( ) has started a new urban health centre in Shastri Nagar area of the city. The health centre was inaugurated on Saturday but will start functioning from Monday. 

 “The centre has been set up on the basis of the guidelines of  . The facility will be managed by the   (PMS) department where interns as well as senior residents will be providing patients community healthcare services. “Patients will be treated for all types of fevers and diarrhoeal diseases,” IGIMS medical superintendent Dr   said on Sunday. 
 
 Each patient will be charged a consultation fee of Rs10. Vaccination will be done free of cost. 
 
 Meanwhile, a new boys’ hostel for postgraduate students has started functioning on the main campus of IGIMS. 
 
 Sources said all the rooms in the existing hostels are already filled and there is a waiting list of 200 students. The hostel has two wings having altogether 84 beds. “The building has been constructed on a plot in front of the State Health Society’s office,” said Dr Mandal. Both wings are single-storey and the canteen will be managed by the students. 
 
 IGIMS has nearly 600 students, including interns. Out of them, 350 have been allotted hostel. “Another hostel constituting nearly 200 beds will soon be opened on the west side of the campus near the first hostel for boys’, as per need. The hostel building is already under construction and will most probably start functioning in October,” Dr Mandal said.
 
 Along with the hostel, a guesthouse for parents visiting their wards is also being constructed.
 
 The hospital also plans to build a central gym on the campus. “The building is under the unauthorized possession of a school, but we have won the case in the Patna high court. We have already served three notices to them. As soon as they vacate, the building will be renovated to create two wings for students and staff members with gender-specific training areas. We hope to have the gym functioning by Durga Puja,” he said. Trainers would also be hired for the gym.
 
 
