Coimbatore: Exactly six months ago, the Coimbatore Corporation presented a surplus budget of Rs 13 crore and promised not to impose new taxes. But since July, the corporation has been sending notices to residents and imposing new taxes and surcharges. When questioned, the officials said that these were not taxes but ‘user charges’. 

 Apart from the regular water tax, professional tax and other taxes, the residents now have to shell out more as ‘user charges’ for garbage collection and UGD. 
 
 The corporation now levies each resident Rs 10-Rs 30 per month as garbage collection surcharge. This amount varies based on the property tax and the amount of garbage generated. Apartment residents have to pay Rs 50. Bakeries and small outlets should pay Rs 60 while hotels and hospitals need to pay between Rs 1,000 and Rs 2,000. 
 
 It was not long ago when notices were sent to 1.5 lakh residents asking them to pay Rs 4,000 as water deposit charges. Before that, residents paid underground drainage (UGD) deposit charges that varied from Rs 10,000 to Rs 50,000. So far, nearly Rs 25 lakh has been collected as garbage collection surcharges. 
 
 “The roads are so pathetic. We get water once every 10-15 days. Drainage and sewage overflow into the road every time it rains. Garbage overflows from every bin on the road but we are penalized if mosquito larvae are found in our water tanks. This is not just unfair but illegal,” said Sudha, a resident of R S Puram.
 
 Rajesh A, a senior citizen at Singanallur, said that the sanitary workers never clean up the dry storm water drains and the lorry drivers also hardly visited his residential area. “But we will have to pay them every month apart from the regular bribe that we pay to the workers and officials,” he said. 
 
 So far, the corporation has collected Rs 9.7 crore in revenue from property tax re-assessment. 
 
 A corporation contractor said that he had pending bills of more than Rs 5 crore. “The corporation claims that they have no money. I want to ask where is the money then? If they spent on services, where are these services?” asked the contractor. Sudha also raised similar allegations. “Now that the money is flowing into the system in the name of deposits and user charges, one needs to find out where the money is being transferred to.” 
 
 Former DMK councillor K M Ravi said corporation officials are just swindling the money from residents but not providing any service in return. “When the council is not in place, residents and representatives should be met and their suggestions should be taken. Without any participation, they are working as per their wish and will,” said Ravi. He added that if they planned to collect all this, why wasn’t this mentioned in the budget book?
 
 Secretary of Peelamedu Consumer Voice PV Gopal said a multi-party protest will be held on September 18 in front of the corporation office. “We organized a meeting with all political parties and stake holders last week in Peelamedu. On one side, garbage collection and water supply distribution is not regular but they are imposing surcharges without consulting any stake-holders. We have decided to conduct a huge protest against the corporation and 10,000 pamphlets have been distributed,” said Gopal. 
 
 Corporation commissioner K Vijayakarthikeyan said, “The solid waste management charges have been uniformly collected across the state now and by all corporations.” He added that these were as mentioned in the solid waste management rules act, 2016. And the other deposits were being collected after audit objections had been raised. 
 
 
