Veteran actress  , known for playing the roles of Nandini in   and Priya Kapoor in Saans and many more recently posted a message on Instagram asking for work.
 
  The 62-year-old actress was backed by her designer daughter   for this act of hers and the latter was just too happy to see the work spirit of her mother.
  
    posted a beautiful picture of herself on Instagram and wrote, "I live in mubai and working am a good actor looking fr good parts to play."
  
  
  
  Backing this move of her mothr, Masaba too took to the social networking site and wrote, "Just the other day I was telling someone .. how I am never afraid/ shy to ask for work. Its obviously genetic. My mother put up this post on her instagram today. I mean,my 62yr old national award winning mother. She told me I must always work .. no matter what .. it keeps you from getting old...she told me they don't write for women her age anymore ... I don't think anyone can replicate what she did for TV anymore.. she complains that she can't do PR .. but says 'I do good work,that's my PR'.. time and again we've spoken about how whatever she asks for ... in due time ,she gets... But that's the magic of a pure heart. The universe just can't refuse you... the only advice I have the guts to give her is.. don't work with anyone who won't respect you ,at this age , that's the bare minimum & it's a strange strange industry she's in... the advice she gives me in return is..'whatever you do,free ka PR mat khaana,your only someone's kid/wife/niece/sister for this long. Prove yourself. WORK. Walk the talk & fly ♥️😁♥️ @neena_gupta #neenaji."
  
  
  
  Well, we see a strong mother daughter bond out there and are just left surprised with this post by the veteran actress who is currently seen busy with her plays.
  
  
 
  
  Neena Gupta, who is known for her path breaking contribution to cinema and TV industry, was reportedly supposed to write a web series for Ekta Kapoor's ALT Balaji. The actress-turned-director will make a comeback to writing after her critically acclaimed TV show Saans. The web series will star Ronit Roy and Mona Singh in lead roles.
  
  A source close to the show informed the TimesOfIndia.com that so far only first narration has taken place and Ronit and Mona have been finalized for the series. It will be a mature love story. With this web series, fans will get to see a fresh pair of Mona and Ronit.
