Patna: RJD chief   and BJP senior functionary   on Sunday once again taunted each other over the elevation of   as UP chief minister.

 At a time when large number of   had set their eyes on TV sets to watch political developments in neighbouring  , especially the high-profile swearing-in ceremony of Yogi Adityanath in Lucknow, Lalu and Sushil Modi took to their official twitter handles to take swipes at each other.
 
 Lalu suggested Modi to get his ears pierced, head tonsured and robes changed like Yogi Adityanath, so that he can get a chance of being elevated to the post of CM. RJD boss also said the BJP people didn’t even invite Sushil Modi to the swearing-in ceremony of Yogi.
 
 “Tum bhi kaan chhidva lo, sir chhilva lo, vesh badal lo. Shayad tumhara kuch bhala ho jaye. Zada dukhi mat hona, ye log tumhe shapath grahan mei nahi bulaya,” Lalu tweeted in Hindi while responding to a previous Modi’s tweet in which the BJP senior said the RJD chief was so much in mourning because of Yogi becoming the UP chief minister that he can’t even decide on the choice of abuses. 
 
 “@laluprasadrjd Yogi ke banne se itne sadme mei hai ki kya gaali de samajh nahi aa raha hai,” Sushil Modi had tweeted. 
 
 The former deputy chief minister later posted a separate tweet and tried to clarify that he was actually present at the swearing-in ceremony in Lucknow. “Sitting in pandal to be witness to oath ceremony of Yogi Adityanath as CM,” SuMo tweeted. Soon after, he tweeted his pictures sitting in a pandal with former Bihar BJP president Mangal Pandey.
 
 In another tweet, SuMo also mocked Lalu’s son and Bihar deputy CM Tejashwi Prasad Yadav by saying, “Lalu’s non-matric son is terming ‘Science graduate Yogi Ji’ as ineligible.” 
 
 This is not the first time SuMo has taken potshots on Lalu and his son.
 
 Earlier on March 11, just after the BJP’s thumping win in UP, SuMo had tweeted about Lalu Prasad, who was rooting for the Congress-SP alliance, and asked the RJD chief about his well being after the UP poll setback.
 
 But Lalu, who is known for his sense of humour, was quick with a retort. “I’m fine. Not letting you enter Uttar Pradesh has worked to the BJP’s benefit," Lalu tweeted back in his own style.
 
