NEW DELHI: Usually taxis registered with app-based aggregators are the subject of protests by conventional taxi services, but on Friday morning the capital woke up to find Uber and Ola drivers on strike, marching from Ramlila Ground to  . The drivers were objecting to leaner takings due both to increasing commissions payable to the aggregator companies as well as lowered fares.

 “In the beginning companies gave us many incentives along with big  ,” griped Kamaljeet Gill, head of the Sarvodaya Drivers’ Association, the orchestrator of Friday’s bandh. “Many drivers even got their friends and relatives to join the cabs aggregators. But now the commission we pay to the companies has gone up from 5-10% to 25% and the rate for rides has fallen to Rs 6 per km, of which we end up with a measly Rs 4.5. We can’t even pay the instalments of our car loans with that sort of earnings.”
 
 Ironically, the drivers are only now realising that registering with a formally set-up corporate service can have its own disadvantages. Unused to the dynamics of business models, they are suddenly unable to accept things will not be as rosy as when they started, a result of both the aggregators trying to stanch their bleeding as well as the pie being divided into smaller portions by the entry of more drivers into the set-up and the essential need to offer low charges to reach critical mass.
 
 Driver Pravin Kumar recalled the good old days when work came with guaranteed bonuses. “We got double of what we earned through bonuses. If we achieved a daily target of Rs 600, the company gave us Rs 600 more. That’s what kept us interested despite the low fares.” With these incentives disappearing, the drivers have found themselves struggling. Said Abhishek Arora — who availed of credit from his company to acquire a cab: “We now have to work 15-18 hours to be able to manage our credit instalments.”
 
 Asad Khan listed another fallout of the aggregators’ business model that is now pinching the  . “There are lakhs of such cabs now, many of which are being cheaply financed by the company itself,” said the elderly Khan. “We can still make money, but have to work for 15-18 hours for something worthwhile to take home. The company seems to benefit by pitching drivers against drivers.”
 
 Black bands on their heads, the drivers trudged along the capital’s roads carrying placards emphasising that “cabs will no longer run on Rs6/km rate” and urging the companies to “lower your commission” and “stop car-pooling services”. The protestors demanded the implementation of the government-mandated rate of Rs 21/km along with benefits such as relaxed working hours, medical insurance, lifting of penalties on cancellation of orders and a cap on the number of app cabs plying in the city.
 
 The union leaders have started an indefinite fast at Janatar Mantar, where the representatives of some autorickshaw unions assured them they would join the strike from either Monday or Tuesday.
 
 
