SRINAGAR: Competitive separatist politics and anger against the deaths during the 2016 summer violence, combined with lack of preemptive policing, led to the abysmal voter turnout in the Srinagar parliamentary by-election on Sunday.

 Traditionally a National Conference (NC) bastion, the 

 
   Turnout in Srinagar Lok Sabha seat lowest ever 
 
 on Sunday amid massive mob violence that led to the death of eight anti-election protesters. 
 
 In sharp contrast, 33 years ago in the 1984 general elections, the voter turnout was 73%, the highest in the seat’s electoral history.
 
 With violent insurgency gripping the valley in 1990, voter turnout in Srinagar — home to the champions of violent separatism in Kashmir like Syed Ali Shah Geelani, Mirwaiz Umar Farooq, Yasin Malik and others — has been decreasing. In the 1999   elections, Srinagar polled just 12% votes.
 
 The latest turnout was an all-time low because “there was no pre-emptive policing”, sources in J&K police said. “It was common sense that there would be serious attempts at disruption of polls given the kind of mob violence and terror attacks that happened in the last one year. 
 
 But police did not detain stone-pelters and rioters, who are in the hundreds across the valley at the moment. They picked up only 29 rioters,” said a police officer.
 
 Apolice source said hundreds of stone-pelters, who were picked up last year, were released due to the “appeasement politics” played by both PDP and NC. 
 
 “They both have been competing in soft-on-separatists politics and trying to appease separatists for the sake of votes. The opposition, NC candidate   went on to glorify stonepelters as freedom fighters.
 
 The PDP would have done the same if they were in the opposition,” said the source. Over 100 polling stations across Srinagar, Budgam and   districts were attacked by rioters on Sunday.
 
 A voter said that many of the stone-pelters belonged to the PDP and the NC. “They are the ones who play in the hands of the separatists as well. But during the elections, mainstream political parties prefer low voter turnout to ensure that only their own committed cadre comes out to vote,” he said.
 
