If you’re a woman, and a lone domestic flyer, India’s national carrier will allow you to reserve a seat in a dedicated women-only row onboard. The airline feels it is their responsibility to enhance female passengers’ comfort level. It was reported that seats in the female-only section could be reserved free of additional charges for flights beginning on January 18.  , however, clarified that female passengers travelling with family would not be entitled to the same.
While some welcomed the move, the announcement did attract a fair share of criticism as well with people questioning if creating more of a gender divide is the way to create an equal and safe world to even suggesting that there are other people who might actually benefit from a reservation, like senior citizens. Hyderabad Times listens in as the city folks voice their opinions.
 
 
 
 I think it’s a silly move. It only enables and somewhat promotes the idea that women aren’t safe in airplanes either. Reserving seats for women only looks like a thing these companies who’ve gotten under fire for lapse safety would do to make their female customers happy — like a consolation of sorts. I don’t think safety will be promoted by this move, if a man is going to be obscene with you he will find a way around it. The only good thing that can possibly come out of this is that we’ll get to bond with other single female travellers.
 —  , actress, online star 
 
 
 
 Personally I think this step doesn’t ensure complete safety in the long run. A woman’s journey is not limited to her flight. If a man wants to misbehave, he can do that anywhere after the flight. No amount of reservation is going to ensure safety till attitudes change. It’s as superficial a change like making roads safer for women after 12 am by putting up street lights, or like women’s compartment in train. Let’s say, when I am travelling in a women’s compartment I feel relieved that there be less groping. Is that really a victory we need to celebrate?
 —  , theatre artiste
 
 
 
 This decision seems to have come out of helplessness of not being able to find a solution to ensure women’s safety. The point is these small moves don’t go very far in the uprooting the main cause of the problem. It’s the mind-set that needs to be changed. We need to make moral and ethical changes instead of physical ones. I think if a strict action is taken against the people who dare to do such heinous acts, not just let them off with a warning, others will think twice before committing such crimes. The legal process in our country is so long and complicated, and the punishment that comes through comes so late after such great difficulty that it takes a toll on the victim. At the end the criminals are let off with mild punishments or no punishment at all. This make such criminals even bolder to commit such crimes.
 —  , dancer
 
 
 In public buses and trains, where there’s no fixed number of people entering or exiting, reservations make sense, because at different times of the day, there can be different amounts of harassment. But on a flight with limited seats, and passengers’ details well documented, I don’t see the point. If a man is caught harassing, why not directly have him prosecuted with the registered details? I think priority should instead be given to the elderly, ailing and expectant mothers.
 —  , poet
 
