MADURAI: A mechanical engineer from   who patented the technology of separating silk yarn from banana and has been exporting it is yet to find official patronage to go for bulk production. However, the yarn which he produces is sought-after in countries like Sri Lanka and Sweden. 
 
 K Murugan mastered the art of banana silk yarn separation technology through twenty years of research. Tuticorin being one of the highest banana producing districts had helped him to experiment with the fibre of different varieties. Five years ago his research started yielding results when he began makings shirts and other outfits from the yarn which he mostly gives away as gift. ``I found that the yarn from varieties of G9, Mothan, country banana and Kozhikode banana snapped while weaving. Instead, the yarn from red banana, rasakadali and nendram were found to have strong fibre which could be extracted through uniform silkgrade single filament yarn extraction technology. In this, the fibre is removed as single strands which make it easy to spin the yarn. He has gifted a shirt to late President APJ Abdul Kalam. DMK chief M   had also appreciated a shawl made of the yarn which he gifted to him four years ago
 
 Murugan says the yarn is safe because it does not undergo any chemical treatment and colours are also usually maintained as natural. Ten banana plants would have to be used to produce a kilogram of fibre. One banana plant can yield fibre just enough to make four shirts and two sarees. It is a tradition to make victims of fire accidents to lie down on banana leaf. Clothes made of this fibre would provide relief to them as it would be soft on the skin and the capillary tubes in the fibre absorb the moisture from the skin due to “ venturi effect”.
 
 The entrepreneur has been finding it difficult to go in for large scale production due to lack of funds. The Department of Biotechnology (DBT) – Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council ( ), had offered to help him if he registered as a private company. However, when he did so and approached them four months ago, he was told that he would have to find funds on his own though his product was good. ``I need a funding of Rs 50 lakhs for devising the technology to extract the fibre from the core of the plant,’’ he said. With mass production a shirt would cost just Rs 250 and sarees Rs 300 or a little more, according to Murugan.
 
 There is a high demand for the fibre he is exporting now, without making them into shirts or sarees, as quality fibre is in demand internationally. At present, he extracts about 200 kilograms of fibre a week and exports it through a Kolkata-based exporter .``Production is less now because drought had affected banana cultivation. The length of the fibre depends on the height of the plant,’’ he said. Murugan has now accepted invitations from Sweden and Sri Lanka, which are keen on helping him with his large scale manufacture.
 
 He has made two types of machines. A potable one for Rs 1.25 lakh can be taken to the farm and the fibre separated at source while the other is a fully automated machine worth Rs 1.50 crore.
 
 ———————————————————-
 
 FROM BANANA TO TEXTILE
 
 Yarn from red banana, rasakadali, nendram found to have strong fibre 
 
 Fibres extracted through uniform silkgrade single filament yarn extraction technology
 
 The Tech: Fibre removed as single strands which makes it easy to spin the yarn.
 
 Banana fibre is as good as cotton and silk for skin
 
 Not chemically treated or dyed
 
 High demand for banana fibre overseas
 
 Cost of shirt – Rs 1000
 
 Cost of sari – Rs 1500
 
