NEW DELHI: A fallout of Delhi government’s confrontation with the Centre over its powers has been its face-off with the  . The year began on a sour note with chief minister Arvind Kejriwal reacting strongly to the mass leave by DANICS and IAS officers on December 31, 2015. The officers were protesting against suspension of two   of the home department. This earned them a stinging rebuke from Kejriwal -- B-team of BJP.

 The year ended with the same bitterness. On December 13, the associations of bureaucrats belonging to the AGMUT cadre of IAS and DANICS adopted a resolution to raise their voice against “injustices of any kind by the political executive of the Delhi government meted out to the officers of the state government in discharge of their duties.” They said they were anguished by the use of offensive language against some senior officers. The resolution was submitted to deputy CM Manish Sisodia, and home minister Rajnath Singh. Sisodia reacted sternly, saying those who did not want to work seek a transfer. The Delhi CM alleged that Prime Minister Narendra Modi was "using LG and IAS and DANICS officers as pawns to target the AAP-led state" government.
 
 The resolution had come in the aftermath of a few incidents. Health minister Satyendar Jain had alleged that when the then health secretary, Chandrakar Bharti, was asked to come to LNJP Hospital, he made the excuse of not having a car. Denying the allegation, the officer said he did finally reach the hospital. In November, the chairman and managing director of Delhi State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation, K R Meena, had sent a letter to Kejriwal, seeking an apology for his behaviour during a meeting.
 
 Another confrontation was over the decision of the then LG, Najeeb Jung, to give temporary charge of member-secretary, Delhi Commission for Women, to women and child development secretary Dilraj Kaur. The CM described her appointment as unconstitutional and posted a member-secretary of DCW chairperson Swati Maliwal’s choice. The then LG did not relent and the stalemate continues.
 
 The climate of fear and   is yet to get dissipated. “The work of scaring bureaucrats is taking place at the central level. And those who are getting scared are unable to work,” Sisodia told TOI. He said with Services being taken away from them in an unconstitutional manner, they have lost control over the administration.
 
 This had followed the August 5, 2016 high court order declaring that LG as administrator was supreme and stressing Services came under his purview. On August 31, the then LG ordered transfers and postings, replacing some of   government's trusted men with senior IAS officers. Health secretary Tarun Seem was replaced by Chandraker Bharti and senior IAS officer Ashwani Kumar made PWD secretary in place of non-IAS Sarvagya Srivastava.
 
 Meanwhile, Kejriwal's former principal secretary, Rajendra Kumar, who was suspended in July last year after his arrest by the CBI in a case of alleged corruption, has sought voluntary retirement, alleging victimisation by the Centre and CBI.
 
 
