Hyderabad: In a vitriolic attack on the opposition parties for the   clash on Monday, animal husbandry minister T Srinivas Yadav claimed the   could have easily mobilized 10 lakh people to counter the opposition’s   but refrained from doing so.

 Yadav also issued a warning: “If you speak disrespectfully against chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao’s family members, beware, people will slice your tongues.” Speaking at a press conference in the evening, he added, “So far we have maintained restraint but henceforth we will deal strongly with the opposition parties if they do not mend their ways.” 
 
 The minister alleged that the parties which protested at Indira Park had come with iron rods with the obvious intention of creating trouble. “Two lakh residents of the place do not want Dharna Chowk at Indira Park. They have been saying this for the last 10 years,” the minister said, adding that they had also gone to court.
 
 Home minister Nayani Narasimha Reddy targeted TJAC leader M Kodandaram. “Kodandaram is always trying to latch himself on to some or the other agitation. This time, he sailed with the communists. He does not seem to know what he wants,” he said.
 
 Reddy alleged that under the leadership of CPM leader Tammineni Veerabhadram, his people had behaved like goondas and attacked the local people at Indira Park. The home minister also said the police had shown utmost restraint in dealing with the protesters who resorted to violence. “The fact that the opposition parties have no agenda became clear today. But since they want to create some issue, they chose the Dharna Chowk matter, which is in court,” he said.
 
 Government whip in the legislative council, Palla Rajeshwara Reddy, said there was no truth in the allegation that the police had participated in the protest on behalf of the public to shift Dharna Chowk. “In fact, a relative of TPCC chief Uttam Kumar Reddy lives in the nearby colony and the family also faces hardship on account of dharnas at Indira Park,” he said. “We are prepared for any debate with the opposition parties on the issue,” he said.
 
 
