CHENNAI: Do you know that the time you waste in the traffic each year could be more than the days you spend enjoying your hard-earned vacation? Assuming that a Chennai resident works eight hours for five days a week and spends roughly two hours commuting in the peak-hour traffic, back and forth from office, a back-of-the-envelope calculation shows that he spends around 20 days in the traffic.

 According to a survey, around 60% Chennaiites tend to lose precious time and energy on travel, especially between their workplace and home. The survey by online   search portal NoBroker.com found that about 60% of the city’s working population spends more than 30 minutes commuting. The survey, based on the 2011 Census, said the remaining work force travels to places of work in less than half-an-hour.
 
 The report found that Chennai has the highest vehicle density in the country with more than 47 lakh vehicles plying on the roads every day. Moreover, the exponential increase in number of vehicles from 2013 to 2017 has resulted in increased traffic jams and higher levels of CO2 in the air. More hours in commuting can affect quality of life and hence staying at the right location makes a difference, the survey noted.
 
 Akhil Gupta, co-founder of NoBroker.com, said there has been paradigm shift in calculating the travel from workplace to home. “It has changed from distance between two locations to the time taken to reach the destination,” he said.
 
 As per the survey, Chennai can save more than 26,600 commuting years and more than Rs 1,045 crore annually if people stayed at the right location. Noting that the current working population in the city was more than 29 lakh, Gupta said around 24 lakh would require commuting. If one goes by the present working population, Chennai can save an additional Rs 1,000 crore and the number of commuting years will also double.
 
 Developers said a policy to promote integrated townships was need of the hour. N Nandakumar, former president of Confederation of Real Estate Developers Associations of India, Tamil Nadu chapter, said Old Mahabalipuram Road was a classic example of what evolved as a modern corridor but with poor infrastructure. “Not many infrastructure except roads was provided at the hub of information technology. So several people preferred to stay in the city and commuted to their offices,” he said.
 
 Urban designer Avait Jani said the government must make efforts to promote public transport. “We need to have more compact cities and it’s growth should be vertical,” he said.
 
 
