TOI takes a look at what cabinet ministers and ministers of state did after entering office

 
 
 Newly appointed health minister   missed his routine morning walk to catch up with work. Reaching the state health directorate around 9.30am, the minister met the staff. Like most, he made everyone pledge to cleanliness on the campus and around it.
 
 By 10am, he got to business in the conference room. Additional chief secretary heading the department Arun Kumar made a presentation before him apprising him about various activities managed by the office. The minister then inspected the office of 150 rooms across four floors.
 
 "After the inspection, there was no regret of not being able to catch up with the walk," Nath told TOI.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Singh said there was a need to digitise working in the directorate. "The Yogi government will have zero tolerance to corruption," he told doctors and staff present. "Delays and pendencies will not be tolerated," he said.
 
 He proved his words right by resolving the crisis at Rani Laxmi Bai Hospital where contractual staff had been striking since Monday to press for disbursement of their dues. "A delegation of the employees came to meet me and their demands were genuine. Orders to clear their salary were passed within two hours," Nath said.
 
 
 
 Environment and forests minister   visited forest department headquarters and administered a cleanliness pledge to the officers on his first day in office on Thursday. He held a quick five-minute meeting with them and left for Lucknow zoo. Two man-eating tigers — one from Pilibhit with cataract in an eye and another from Lakhimpur — caught the minister's eye. He inquired ister's eye. He inquired about their well-being and sought complete details on how wild animals are rescued. He also inspected tranquilliser guns and other equipment. However, the huge entourage that had come with the minister was enough to put the two tigers at unease. Some of them tried clicking pictures of the tigers, which continued to growl in the background.
 
 
 
 Newly inducted energy minister Shrikant Sharma, on his first day in office, directed officers to ensure uninterrupted power supply to residents of UP in summer. He was welcomed with roses that officials lined up to offer him individually.
 
 "Wherever transformers are overloaded, I have asked to put in place a new transformer. Rural areas should get special focus," he told TOI. Officers were also directed to act tough against power theft. In the morning, Sharma visited Shakti Bhawan and administered a cleanliness pledge to officers. The minister held a more than an hour-long meeting with officers of the energy department.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Sharma launched e-tendering on Thursday and put in place a citizen charter. He said file induction should be done within a week. A public grievance redress system should also be set up. 
 
 
 
 Cabinet minister for women and child welfare Rita Bahuguna Joshi said that all officers must clear files within seven days else they would be served a show-cause notice. She also said she would inspect PDS shops even though it is not her department and inform the minister in case of an irregularity . 
 
 
 
 Staff at state medical education department will not be able to leave office without a proper reason. Every single employee leaving the premises will have to make an entry in the movement register — an exercise revived by newly appointed minister for medical education Ashutosh Tandon. "The culture of the movement register has to be followed in letter and spirit. Those leaving even for governmental work should make an entry," Tandon told the staff on his first day.
 
 He reached Jawahar Bhavan at 9.40am and inspected every single room in the medical education directorate. He also went to the toilets to see if they were clean. The minister came across a damp patch towards the audit room and called for the caretaker, directing him to get the problem rectified within three days. He also directed officials to start digitisation of files and promote a transparent work culture.
 
 
 
 Cabinet minister of housing Suresh Khanna, after making officers take a pledge on cleanliness at Lucknow Municipal Corporation, got busy with the state department officials to allocate official bungalows. He also managed phone calls from senior leaders requesting to allot specific bungalows to their dear ones.
 
 
 
 Minister of state for water resources with independent charge Upendra Tiwari was unhappy about lack of cleanliness in his office in Naveen Bhawan, Secretariat. He took on the job himself and broomed the office and corridor, embarrassing the officials of his ministry. Meanwhile, rural development minister Mahendra Singh reached his office at 9.30am and performed a puja. He administered an oath of cleanliness and directed the officials to carry out development work on priority basis.
 
 
 
 At Ganna Sansthan, cane development minister Suresh Rana administered an oath of cleanliness to around 400 officials. He said that directives have been given to officials to prepare a blue print for payment of fresh cane dues in 14 days and pending dues in 120 days.
 
 
 
 Administering a cleanliness pledge to officers in the trans port department, minister of state Swatantra Deo Singh resorted to brooming of the campus. Principal secretary, transport, Aradhana Shukla also joined him in the intiative.
 
 Singh said cleanliness was the CM's priority and he would take personal interest in ensuring cleanliness in offices of his departments. He also asked for Wi-Fi at prominent bus stations in big ger cities, act strictly against unauthorised operation of vehicles and operate AC buses in prominent cities.
 
 
 
 Ranji player-turned-politician and the only Muslim face in Team Yogi,   lost his cool on the first day in of fice when he found pictures of SP leaders   and Azam Khan still hanging in his office. An annoyed Raza pulled up his officials. "Why is this photo here.... Don't you know that their time has gone and whose government is in power now?" he asked his staff. 
 
 
 
 
 
