Talk of   and progression in  . seems to have ignored the basics when it comes to providing meaningful career opportunities to its  , as most women professionals don't consider their workplaces women friendly, reveals a TimesJobs study.

 April 04, 2017: As part of the celebrations for   last month, TimesJobs undertook an in-depth TJinsite study to gauge the pulse of working women in India with candid inputs from over 2,500 working women.
 
 This report reveals that though, most organizations claim to offer equal opportunities to men and women but their own women employees feel very differently, as nearly 90% women professionals say there isn't much equality in their organization when it comes to career progression. Stating promotions, opportunities for leadership roles, salary increases and incentive programs are biased towards men.
 
 While rating the work aspects which directly or indirectly help in creating a women friendly workplace, 70% women disagreed that their own workplace was female friendly.
 
 
 
 
 
 Almost 95% respondents rated female representation in their organization's top leadership as poor. Sadly, none of the surveyed women professionals rated women representation in top leadership at their organization as good.
 
 
 
 Over 75% women rated the management opportunities provided by their organization for female professionals as poor. In addition, 40% women professionals rated satisfaction with their salaries as poor, 50% as just average and only 10% rated it as good.
 
 
 
 Given that role transition is now a routine part of working life, continued learning should be viewed as a necessity, but this clearly is not the case for many women professionals who feel they miss out on growth opportunities because of lack of proper training and upskilling initiatives. Almost 75% of women state that learning opportunities at their company is poor.
 
 
 
 In addition, 80% women professionals rated sponsorship or mentorship initiatives at their organization as poor. This is surprising, considering corporate mentoring is on the rise with most Fortune 500 companies offering professional mentoring programs to their employees.
 
 
 
 Workplace flexibility remains one of the key reasons for people to join or leave a company. However, 70% women employees rate flexibility in their organization as poor. Almost 80% of these women professionals are even ready to forego promotions in favor of better work life balance. In addition, 60% women professionals rated the ability to telecommute for work as poor, and only 5% voted it as good in their organizations.
 
 
 
 35% women professionals rated maternity provisions at their workplace as poor, 55% voted them as average and only 10% agreed that these provisions were good. While the recent amendments to the maternity bill have given hope to women professionals, the ground reality is that these changes have not been adopted by many companies yet.
 
 “It is disturbing that even after decades of aggressive efforts to create a level field for women, inequity appears entrenched in Indian organizations. We hope this TimesJobs study is a clarion call for companies to acknowledge this gaping need - look at the problem areas highlighted and find practical solutions to help talented women professionals advance in their careers,” says Nilanjan Roy, Head of Strategy, Times Business Solutions.
 
 
