HYDERABAD: Barely 24 hours after the massive show of strength by ruling TRS at Warangal, just 120km away —   — turned into the epicentre of farmers’ unrest. The ruling TRS, which was buoyed by the massive  , is struggling to firefight and has launched a counter-offensive. 

 Marketing officials at the Mirchi yard failed to sense the simmering anger on the ground even as 1 lakh chilli bags piled up after storage facilities were exhausted. Bags spilled onto the roads, but the ruling party failed to extend remunerative prices. This was the final trigger, which forced farmers to go on the rampage. 
 
 The mirchi blaze has given much-needed ammunition to both Congress and TDP to revive fortunes in Telangana and launch campaign for early polls. Farmers allege the glut followed the government’s advice not to sow cotton and grow other crops. On Monday too, workers of TRS and Congress almost came to blows at the Mirchi yard after a party delegation led by Leader of the Opposition K Jana Reddy visited the market committee. 
 
 Sparks flew after supporters of both parties levelled allegations and came to fisticuffs. K Jana Reddy,   and Bhatti Vikramarka of Congress went to interact with farmers lodged in jail. They challenged the TRS government to prove their claim that opposition parties instigated farmers.
 
  While Congress leaders accused TRS government of failing to extend remunerative prices to chilli and agriculture products, the ruling TRS returned the fire. Municipal administration minister KT Rama Rao added fuel to fire from Delhi when he stated the government had evidence that political parties, particularly Congress and TDP were involved in Friday’s incident. Telangana Congress
 committee president   lashed out at KTR and party leaders for trying to sidetrack the issue by accusing Opposition parties. “Even intelligence sleuths are misleading the chief minister. They are only giving information which CM KCR wants to hear,” he said. He said several TRS leaders were in touch with Congress and many would join Congress before elections.
 
  TDP member Ravula Chandrasekhar Reddy challenged the TRS government to prove those arrested were not farmers. “I can prove that none of the TRS ministers can step into the   yard without police security. “Farmers have seen the real face of TRS and mirchi has exposed their double standards,” he said. TDP working president A Ravanth Reddy said about 3,000 farmers have so far committed suicide in Telangana and alleged chief minister has not even visited bereaved families.
 
  With Section 144 still clamped in Khammam commissionerate limits and delegations from Congress, TDP, CPI, CPM continuing to visit the mirchi yard, the TRS government finds it tough to undo the damage. Cong Accuses TRS Of Failing
 
