COIMBATORE: The deadlock over tapping of water from dead storage of   has finally been broken. With the   agreeing to allow pumping of water from the dam to supply water to the city,   officials from Tamil Nadu said they would accommodate the former’s demand for adequate   as per PAP agreement. It has come as a big relief for residents of five wards in the city who are entirely dependent on Siruvani. 

 Water will be pumped from the dead storage level on Monday. TWAD board officials began work on Sunday to set up motors and gen-set at the old dam where the intake point is situated. They said six motors were fixed to pump water from the dam. 
 
 Currently, the level of water in the dead storage is 15ft and nearly 20 MLD could be pumped daily for a couple of months. 
 
 “It has come as a big relief for five wards (15, 18, 19, 20, 21) covering areas such as Veerakeralam, Seeranaickenpalayam and Pudur which have not been inter-linked with Pillur water supply scheme. These wards were receiving water once in 20 days for the last few months. We are glad that at least 5 MLD water would be supplied to these wards to increase water supply and meet their drinking water demands,” said a corporation assistant executive engineer. 
 
 He said the water would mainly be used only for these wards. “If there is shortage in other wards, we will supply  . But the preference would be only for these five wards,” he said.
 
 TWAD board officials said as per the PAP agreement, 7,250mcft of water had to be released from June to July in 2016-2017. But due to water shortage, only 2,727mcft of water had been released. 
 
 “There is only 500mcft of water left at Aliyar dam currently which means only 8ft water is left,” said the official. But we have released extra water from other schemes to meet their required demand. 
 
 “We cannot reveal the details but we have met their requirement and they have agreed to allow us to pump water. The water supply from Siruvani would begin from Monday,” confirmed the TWAD officer. 
 
 “Machinery was brought from Tamil Nadu and work is in progress. We are hopeful that it would be completed by Sunday night for pumping to begin on Monday,” said an official. 
 
