HUBBALLI: A woman lost her life after being crushed between   and the   station on Wednesday night.

 Kallavva Mallappa Naregal, 50, of Tondihal village in Yelburga taluk, her brother Sharanappa Arakeri and two other women were going to attend her daughter’s house-warming ceremony in Bengaluru on Friday. As three coaches of Train No. 16591 Hubballi-Bengaluru City-Mysuru Hampi Express were stationed outside Platform 2, Kallavva could not enter the coach due to the heavy rush. She was standing on the steps of the coach. When the train started, her legs were crushed by the platform and severed from her body. Though some members of the public rushed her to the district hospital in Koppal, she succumbed around1.30am Thursday.
 
 Sharanappa Arakeri said, “Three of us boarded the coach to ensure a seat for our sister. It was dark where the general coaches were stationed. When she was just one step away from entering the coach, the train started moving and her legs were   steps and the platform. We tried pulling her inside but in vain. Some passengers pulled the chain and the train stopped but by then, her legs were severed. With the help of some villagers, we took her to hospital by ambulance but she died after five hours.”
 
 Neelappagouda Immadigoudra, gram panchayat member, Tondihal, said it was the duty of the guard to ensure all passengers were in the coach before giving the green signal. “Maybe he couldn’t see her as there was no light outside the platform. As the train stops for only 1 minute at Bhanapur, he may have given the green signal. How can passengers climb 5-6 ft from the ground to the coach?” he said.
 
 Fakirappa Mandalgeri, a resident of Bhanapur, said this was not the first such accident at this station. “As the length of the platform is shorter than the length of passenger trains like Hampi Express, 3-4 coaches are stationed beyond the platform. Though we have requested railway officials to address this issue, they have not responded,” he said.
 
 Earlier incident
 
 Shankrappa Choudki, former GP member, Bhanapur, recalled that a 21-year-old girl had died some time back on Platform No. 1 at Bhanapur station. “As the general coaches were stationed on a small bridge, she entered a sleeper coach with her mother. When the TTE insisted her to get into the general coaches, she came out her coach. A tile of the platform’s border had broken and she slipped under the train and her body was crushed. As her mother did not have her ticket, she could not get any compensation from the railways.” 
 
