Ludhiana: The ‘Swacch Bharat Swacch Dhan’ initiative undertaken on Thursday by the office of chief commissioner of income tax (CCIT), Ludhiana, proved to be a major success.

 In addition to 550 officers and staff of the I-T department, chartered accountants, businessmen, retired officers, and people from all walks of life participated in this “biggest tax outreach programme in the world” under which tax awareness was spread amongst lakhs of students of 638 public, private and convent senior secondary schools of district Ludhiana.
 
 Besides, hundreds of tax trees were planted by the department in association with TOI under the Live Green campaign.
 
 The campaign kicked off at 7.30am with CCIT Binay K Jha taking the charge himself and addressing students of KVM School, Civil Lines, about income tax and operation clean money.
 
 Jha and his team including additional commissioner Rohit Mehra, joint commissioner Manav Bansal also planted a “tax tree” on the school premises. Different teams comprising department officials visited a school each and updated the live status of their feat on the Facebook group “Tax Tree Ludhiana” which saw joining of more than 2,500 members in just five days.
 
 Addressing mediapersons after the campaign was over, Jha said, “History has been created in Ludhiana today due to the combined efforts of every employee of our department, their families, chartered accountants and even the retired income tax employees by covering close to 4 lakh students of 638 schools.”
 
 “Though final figures can change as the counting process is still on and so far the data has been compiled for 396 schools, according to which 2,28,500 students took part in tax awareness and oath taking programme,” said Jha, adding, “We were really touched by the kind of response we got from the students and school staff. Such was the enthusiasm shown by some schools who specially contacted us to include them in the campaign list.”
 
 CCIT also informed that the entire campaign was paperless and totally digitalized as all the activities were reported and monitored via Whatsapp and Facebook and even Google maps.
 
 Meanwhile, social media was abuzz with activity of the “Swacch Bharat Swacch Dhan” campaign as thousands of Indian Revenue Service (IRS) officers, income tax officers (ITO), income tax inspectors (ITI) posted pictures of them along with students and school staff who took part in this mega event.
 
 According to department, this was the first ever campaign on such a large scale by any Central Government agency. Also this hit a new record of largest number of students/staff and officers, chartered accountants taking pledge of clean-money and also Swacch Bharat.
 
 Interestingly, the campaign is likely to hit a new record on Hindi Diwas (which was today) in which such a large number of people took oath in Hindi.
 
 
