LUDHIANA: A 30-year-old man allegedly created a fake   of a woman and uploaded obscene pictures on it to get back at her as she had threatened him to lodge a complaint against him for refusing to marry her a few months back.

 Following the complaint of the woman, the Sahnewal police booked the man under Sections 292 (a book, pamphlet, paper, writing, drawing, painting, representation, figure or any other object, shall be deemed to be obscene if it is lascivious or appeals to the prurient interest), 500 (defamation), 501 (printing or engraving matter known to be defamatory), 67 (B) IT (punishment for publishing or transmitting of material depicting children in sexually explicit act, etc. in electronic form) and Section 5 of Indecent Representation of Women (Prohibition) Act on Friday.
 
 In her complaint to police, 35-year-old woman said a couple of months back, she got divorced from her husband, following which she left the house of in-laws’ and started living in a rented accommodation of the accused.
 
 She stayed there for about four months. According to police sources, they had an affair, but he refused to marry the woman. When the woman told him that she would lodge a complaint against him for  , the man created a fake Facebook profile and uploading lewd pictures on it.
 
  When she came to know about this incident, she left his house and started living in Sahnewal. But the accused followed her there and kept harassing her and sending obscene pictures on her WhatsApp.
 
 Inspector Rajwant Singh, investigating officer from  , said the accused had posted many obscene pictures on the account. One of those pictures was that of the complainant. He had also made her number public on   Afterwards, the accused also demanded money from her, but she shifted to Sahnewal, he added.
 
 He added in Sahnewal, the accused would often harass her on the way to her work place. Later on July 10, the accused also sent a link of obscene pictures to her after which the woman lodged a police complaint.
 
 The IO said the accused is at large.
 
