NAGPUR: The links of a hidden pan masala and gutka factory uncovered last week in   heartland of Bastar in   were traced to Pandhurna town, 100 km from Nagpur in neighbouring  . 

 The brands made in the Bastar factory were also once manufactured in two units near Pandhurna. The factories have been shut down after gutka was banned in Madhya Pradesh over four years ago, say locals. A Jaipur-based businessman is under scanner in the case. An electrician Imran Shaikh, who acted as a front for him at Bastar, belongs to Tigaon village, 25km from Pandhurna.
 
 The Directorate General of Central Excise Intelligence (DGCEI) which raided the factory in Bailenga village of   found a duty evasion of Rs 64 crore. This means the turnover may run over Rs 100 crore. Two persons have been arrested in the matter. The raid was reported by TOI on February 3. Manufacture of banned gutka apart from pan masala was also found. 
 
 Imran owns the land on which the Bastar factory is located and stays there, but has no say in the day-to-day operations. On papers, there is just a house in Imran’s name on the land with no mention of a factory in any official records. It is believed that pay-offs may have gone to Maoists as protection money, say sources.
 
 TOI visited Tigaon and Pandhurna on Sunday to follow the trail. At Sirataa villager near Tigaon, Imran’s aged parents till a 2.5 acre land and live in a one room house. Imran had left the village over four years ago. This coincides with the two factories shutting down. His kin said the family lives in abject poverty.
 
 The factory in Bastar makes Sitar and Nazar brand of masalas. Locals say the same brands were made in the units at Pandhurna. Both the units were popularly known as ‘Sitar factory’ due to the brand of pan masala made there. 
 
 A man in his thirties, Imran is known to have little financial means. Probe hints that Rs 4 lakh to buy the land was deposited in Imran’s account by his handlers who ran the factory. Imran’s kin stated that he was close to a businessman who ran a gutka factory at Pandhurna.
 
 “While in   used to work with a Seth (businessman) in Pandhurna but nothing more was known about him,” said a relative. The probe hints that the Jaipur businessman may have owned the units in Pandhurna too. 
 
 Sources said the two units were run in a rather secretive manner. Now, there is not even a signboard at both the units which appear to have been deserted altoghther. 
 
 All the workers were from Rajasthan. They avoided talking to locals and stayed in a godown a little ahead. “Even food was supplied inside and hardly anyone ventured outside after work,” said a local businessman.
 
 “Probably, the unit did not have an electricity connection too as the operations were largely run using a generator. One fine day after gutka was banned in the state, they wound up and nothing was known about the owner,” said a local source. 
 
 In Bastar, sleuths are tyring to uncover the further layers. Sources said the area in Bastar was protected by a thick boundary wall, with 10 german shepherd dogs to guard the site. “Even here workers had to remain within the walls itself,” said the source.
 
