BHOPAL:   on Friday issued summons to   Dow Chemicals via e-mail while hearing a case related to  . 

 Court of chief judicial magistrate Bhoobhaskar Yadav in its order wrote, “as per the provisions under Section 65 of Code of Criminal Procedure, court can order to execute summons using any new means.” The court issued this order while hearing a petition filed by NGOs, Bhopal Gas Peedit Sangharsh Sahyog Samiti Evam Mahila Udyog Sangathan and Bhopal Group For Action and Information, requesting the court to make Dow Chemicals a party in the Bhopal Gas Leak case. 
 
 In its order court also said, “It is evident from the documents that on June 15, 2004 court summoned Dow Chemicals. Several reminders were sent thereafter but no execution report was received. The concerning branch of the home department asked CBI several time to execute the summons but CBI is not taking interest in such a serious issue. And a constable, who knows nothing about the issue, is sent for court hearings.” 
 
 Court said it is evident from the court order dated July 27, 2013 that Dow Chemicals moved a petition before Madhya Pradesh high court (MPHC) requesting the court to stay proceedings that are going on in this court against it. Petition was dismissed by high court. Thus though the execution report of the summons issued to the company have not been received, but the company has kept an eye on the proceedings of this court and knows the case progress in this court. 
 
 This also clearly means that the company has received the information regarding the summons issued by court, said the order. 
 
 And court also said in the order that from the screen shot of the Dow Chemicals official website that has been submitted by the activists working for Bhopal gas tragedy victims, it is evident that the email id of the concerning officer of Dow Chemicals is aewilson@dow.com. 
 
 “Considering all the conditions, it is ordered that for appearing in case and also take part in proceedings the Dow Chemicals company should be summoned via email,” ordered the court of CJM. 
 
 Earlier, on February 26, 2004 also, NGOs had filed an appeal in the CJM court, Bhopal, pleading that Dow officials be summoned before the Bhopal court in the case. On January 6, 2005, CJM Bhopal ordered summon to Dow officials, but the company moved high court, which granted a stay. The activists filed an appeal in MPHC and on October 19, 2012, the court vacated the stay. The activists then filed a petition for summoning Dow officials on January 13, 2013, said sources. 
 
