NAGPUR: Krida Bharti, a sports and allied activities  , is organizing a three-day workshop titled “Vijay Path” for students to raise awareness about   in   forces on May 22-24 at Dharampeth Science College from 7.30am to 9.30am.

 The workshop is open for all, inviting students studying in class 10 to graduation of any disciple, irrespective of gender. Various topics related to defence forces will be discussed with the aim to provide an insight in the world of defence to the participants. Workshop comprises guest lectures, mock tests and, fun and learn games.
 
 Guest speakers invited in the workshop are Sumant Tekade, motivational trainer, Anant Vyawhare, retired Mathematical teacher, Milind Deshpande, independent science teacher and Shailesh Lambe, counsellor. The various topics which will be discussed in the workshop are Chattrapati Shivaji Maharaj and Armed Forces, Methods to prepare Mathematics, Science: The Defence Forces Entrance Way and Test Your Persona: Officers’ Like Quality.
 
 Shailesh Lambe, convener, Vijay Path, told TOI, “Main aim of the workshop is to create awareness among youngsters about defence services as a valid   option. We wish to motivate students and break traditional stereotypes of joining a medical or engineering course.”
 
 He said, “Practical knowledge will be imparted to the participants about life in defence services and an in-depth discussion will take place related to defence exams like National Defence Academy (NDA) test, Air Force Common Admission Test (AFCAT), Combined Defence Services (CDS) test etc. Students will be introduced to the syllabus of these exams and tips to qualify the exams will be taught by speakers.”
 
 He added that graduation level students will be introduced to the not so famous concept of University Entry Scheme (UES), Service Selection Board (SSB), and National Cadet Corps (NCC) entry scheme and proper guidance will be provided on this topics.
 
 Lambe also said that a panel discussion will be held on the last day of workshop among panellists Major Achyut Deo, Colonel Shirish Mujumdar, Colonel Abhay Patwardhan, Commander Prabhat Shrivastav. The panel will discuss doubts and questions of the participants and motivate them to opt for defence services as a career. Interested students can call 7720962828 for more details.
 
 (Reporting by Praveen Tewari)
 
