MUMBAI: The Indian cricket board ( ) on Monday once again found itself surrounded by plenty of drama and controversy when its high profile Cricket Advisory Committee ( ) withheld the appointment of India's next senior men's team coach, saying they needed “a few days more” to make the decision.

 While announcing the postponement, Cricket Advisory Committee (CAC) member   said  's inputs were needed to make the decision and that the captain “needs to understand how coaches work”.
 
 The fresh delay in the appointment of a coach comes 47 days after the BCCI invited applications for the role. “What we have decided is that we will hold on for the time being (on) the announcement of the coach. We need to talk to a few more players, especially the captain, and then make an announcement because we feel that there is no hurry at the moment,” Ganguly said, adding that the new coach would be given a contract till the 2019 World Cup.
 
 Former Team India director Ravi Shastri, ex-opener and Kings XI Punjab mentor Virender Sehwag, former Sri Lanka national coach and present Sunrisers Hyderabad mentor Tom Moody, Afghanistan's national coach Lal chand Rajput and former Pakistan national coach Richard Pybus attended the interview session. Only Sehwag arrived at the BCCI headquarters to make his presentation in person while the others, including Shastri who is presently in the United Kingdom, participated through Skype. The entire process, which began at 12 pm, lasted close to six hours.
 
 Asked specifically if the decision had already been made on this and the CAC was waiting to only discuss the matter with Virat Kohli before making it official, Ganguly said “No, we have just listened to all of them. What we say here is honest and nothing changes. Virat needs to understand how the coaches also operate. That's the best way forward.”
 
 The CAC confirmed that the pro cess is done and completed. “The important thing is how we are going to go forward,” Ganguly said.
 
 Those in the know of things told TOI that Shastri and Moody made impressive presentations during their respective interviews. The CAC did not invite former India medium-pacer Dodda Ganesh for the interview and said former West Indies all-rounder Phil Simmons could not participate in the process because he wasn't available.
 
 
