HYDERABAD: Four class IX students were booked on Monday for allegedly sexually   from   in Chaderghat. The culprits, who had been sexually abusing the class VIII student for over two months, even videographed their act and blackmailed him, the victim's father told the police.

 To add to the 13-year-old's woes, his school suspended him for two months after learning about the sexual assault.
 
 The police have registered a case under Section 377 (unnatural sex) of the Indian Penal Code and under the Information Technology Act against the four boys in the age group of 16-18. Though the 13 year-old was victimized for over two months, it was only a few days ago, he shared his ordeal with his parents as he was showing signs of depression. “I confronted the parents of the four boys, but they dared me to do whatever I could.So, I approached the police,“ the boy's father told mediapersons on Monday.
 
 The victim and his father lodged a complaint with the Chaderghat police alleging that the four boys, who live in the neighbourhood, had on se veral occasions invited the boy to their homes on the pretext of showing pornography and sexually abused him.
 
 “Later, his abusers started intimidating the boy. They threatened him that if he did not cooperate with them, they would make the videos of the assault viral,“ the boy's father said. “Locals would embarrass my son by indirectly referring to the sexual assault.As a result, my son slipped into depression.“
 
 On the school's 'unfair' suspension of his son, the distraught father said, “The final exams are just two months away. How can the school suspend my son who is the victim here? Also, the incident happened outside the school.“
 
 The school authorities, who were reluctant to talk to TOI, claimed that the boy was suspended after `verifying all the facts'. “The boy was given the opportunity to come clean before serving the suspension order and he admitted to his misconduct,“ they claimed.When pointed out that the incident had taken place outside the school premises, the officials refused to reply.
 
 Chaderghat police inspector G Sattaiah said they are investigating the charges against the four boys. “The victim has been sent for counselling,“ he added. “All the accused study in different local schools. As they are neighbours, the four used to invite the victim to one of their homes and sexually abuse him.“
 
