JALANDHAR: Is it possible to use the combine harvester with Super SMS (Straw Management System) fitted on it for the second time on stubble of paddy after the grains are harvested in the first round? The officials of agriculture department claim that this ‘simple innovation’ can eliminate the need of using chopper shredder or mulcher.

 The idea has been shared with the top officials of the agriculture department and Punjab Agriculture University. The agriculture department officials claim that this innovation would not only ensure effective and easy management of the stubble but would also help them to bring down the cost.
 
 It was during a field demonstration of straw management in   village on September 20 that the chief agriculture officer Balwinder Singh Chhina stumbled upon the idea. He asked the combine harvester operator with Super SMS fitted on it that he should run the machine again on the standing stubble when the grains had already been harvested by the machine in the first round.   deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma was also present at the spot.
 
 “In the first round, the combine harvester has to be run at the level of ear of the standing crop so that the grains come out properly. The standing stubble would then have to be managed with chopper shredder. The farmers would consider it as a burden to call a new machine operator for this purpose only, who would charge separately,’ Chhina told TOI.
 
 “I asked the operator of the combine harvester to run his machine at a very low level so that the entire standing stubble could be chopped off and then see the results. The entire height of the standing stubble was then shredded into fine pieces by the Super SMS and the result was satisfactory. This would eliminate the need to call another machine for example the chopper shredder or mulcher,” Chhina told.
 
 Jarnail Singh, who owns a land in Aima village in  , informed that if the same combine harvester is used, it would lower the cost and would also save time.
 
 “This part of stubble has always been a major problem for the farmers. Another machine would also sometimes lead to delay in sowing of the next crop,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, Chhina said that he had already shared the innovation with the director agriculture and   officials also so that it can be acted upon.
 
