NOIDA: On the morning of July 12, as a mob laid siege to  , social media crackled with rage with posts on how ‘Bangladeshis’ had attacked the housing society. The posts were hashtagged, shared, copied, retweeted and picked up by internet trolls well before the police had scoped the scene, dug out facts and revealed them to all.

 By evening, when police verified papers and rubbished the ‘Bangladeshi’ theory, it had already been “well established” on the internet that “Bangladeshi maids in Moderne” were behind the attack. The ‘Bangladeshi’ angle found its way into the internet from a society’s internal messaging group on which one user referred to the maids as ‘Bangladeshis’. 
 
 Residents of Moderne told TOI on Saturday it was unfortunate that the term had been used as it had deflected attention from the real issue of security. 
 
 “We want to live in harmony here,” said Dr Amit Sachdeva, a flat owner at Moderne who runs his own clinic. Sachdeva, who moved to Moderne two years ago, has also been running a free clinic for the poor. “We try to help our maids and others in whatever way we can. It’s unfortunate that such an incident happened here,” he added. 
 
 Rahul Pandey, another Moderne resident, agreed.
 
 “I want to categorically state here that we do not believe in singling out people based on caste or community. We do not want anyone using our society names to name any one particular community. We have nothing against Bangladeshis nor have we singled them out. The matter primarily is of law and order due to breach of security,” Pandey said.
 
 Moderne’s internal   management committee is deliberating on how to ensure safety of not only residents but also maids, said Lokesh Agarwal, another resident. “To bring in trust between the employer and the employee we are thinking of online transactions for payment of salaries so that accountability on both sides is ensured. Along with this we are looking at entry-exit swipe cards.”
 
 While Moderne figures out the way ahead, there is in the fiasco a lesson to learn.  , co-founder of altnews.in, said while it is important to exercise caution before sharing if one sees inflammatory content on social media, law enforcement needs to step up its game too. “One has to be careful and verify what the issue really is before sharing it. However, the very nature of this kind of content is such that it will always go viral. Of course, people must be advised to keep calm and not get outraged. But law enforcement agencies too have to realise the potential of social unrest through online rumours. They must monitor social media constantly and use the medium to counter rumours,” said Sinha, whose website has been tracking and debunking fake news and rumours on social media.
 
 Pankaj Jain, who runs the social media hoax-busting website smhoaxslayer.com said one must not believe WhatsApp forwards and social media shares at face value. For cases such as the one in Noida where different versions have emerged, he said, it pays to be patient. 
 
 “One should hold their horses and wait for clarity before sharing anything. Don't believe something just because you want to believe it,” Jain said.
 
 (With inputs from Kim Arora in New Delhi)
 
 
