LUCKNOW: This election around,   is sounding increasingly like   chief   Singh Yadav. Eager for Muslim support to augment her Dalit vote bank, the   chief appears to be following her arch rival’s moves.

 Back in 1989, when the SP patriarch became CM for the fi rst time, he earned the sobriquet ‘Maulana’ Mulayam. This, for his myriad pro-minority initiatives. This time, after the bitter SP family feud, Mayawati saw a window of opportunity to make a more energetic pitch for the Muslim vote. Her line: With ‘Netaji’ out of the SP chief ’s chair and Akhilesh Yadav at the controls of the ruling party, it’s a much weakened organisation. She is, she claims, by far a stronger votary of the minority cause.
 
 That explains why she has fi elded a record 99 Muslim candidates in UP and why she’s been going fl at out attacking PM   and the BJP, much to the community’s delight, so to speak. To showcase her pro-Muslim tilt, she showed no inhibition in inducting mafi aturned-politician Mukhtar Ansari and his brothers, merging their Quami Ekta Dal with her party. Recall how CM Akhilesh Yadav fl at refused to accomodate his uncle Shivpal Yadav’s attempt for a tie-up with the Quami Ekta Dal.
 
 She’s fi elded Mukhtar in Mau, his son Abbas in Ghosi and elder brother Sibgatullah in Mohammedpur with an eye on Muslim votes in about half a dozen eastern districts. “After three successive defeats in 2009, 2012 and 2014, she knows how crucial a 2017 victory is for the survival of her party and the Dalit mission. That’s why she’s doing everything to get her cast and community arithmetic right,” an observer says. In her rallies, she hard sells the fact that her tenure was riot-free unlike the one under the SP.
 
 Speaking in Muslimdominated districts, such as Muzaffarnagar, Shamli and Aligarh recently, she said there were more than 500 riots in the past fi ve years. And that she was a ‘safe alternative’ for the community.
 
 The BSP is an offshoot of the BAMCEF (Backward and Minorities confederation of Employees Federation), a movement launched by Mayawati’s mentor Kanshiram. Yet, between 2007 and 2012 when she held the CM’s offi ce, her government hardly initiated any special scheme for the minorities as it did for the Dalits. She wooed the Brahmins for a social engineering experiment that paid off. Mulayam, on the other hand, has been a doughty spokesman for the Muslims. He didn’t shy away from ordering fi ring on frenzied kar sewaks in 1990 to protect the Babri Masjid. It was after this incident that saffron forces nicknamed him ‘Maulana Mulayam’, a moniker he has never resented.
 
 Despite being accused of practising minority appeasement during his party’s three stints in government, he remained committed to the community.
 
 He promised to give Muslims reservations as per the Sachar Committee recommendations. As a result, of 68 Muslim MLAs after the 2012 UP polls, 4 3 were from the SP. Now, his staunch rival appears to be almost following in his footsteps.
 
 Whether she will be able to win over the community will be clear in the fi rst two phases of voting.
 
 
