 or the Indian Roller bird is considered good omen if spotted on Dasara. Unfortunately for the Palapitta,   is anything but good omen. For them, the festival rings a death knell. The torment begins a month before Dasara — they are captured, caged, tied up; their wings are trimmed or sometimes even stuck with glue to prevent them from flying away; they’re crammed into small cages which are shut up in dark rooms or godowns, where they await their fate without food or water. All this to cater to the demands of those willing to shell out money to ‘spot’ the bird on Dasara for good luck. Ironically, the palapitta is the ‘state bird’ of Telangana, Karnataka, Odisha and Bihar, and is protected under Schedule IV of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972 which makes its capture, hunting and trade illegal. But whenever there is a tussle between tradition and law, the former wins.

 In 2015, the Telangana state endowment commissioner issued a notice banning all temples from displaying Indian Roller bird or Palapitta. But even two years later, the palapittas continue to be captured regardless. 
 “Not just in Hyderabad, the palapitta faces the same fate in North India as well, especially in Lucknow, Kanpur, Patna. According to popular belief, sighting palapittas on Dasara will help absolve people of their sins. It is also believed that if one makes a wish before palapitta, it will convey the wish to Lord Shiva, who will fulfil it. People still buy these birds from the bird market to set them free after making a wish. sometimes they just take a peek at a bird in a cage in the hands of a bird charmer,” says Abhinav Srihan of Fauna Police, adding, “There is a ban on this practice, but without proper implementation it’s useless. The trade of palapitta was exposed many years ago. Three years ago we even sent pictorial evidence to wildlife authorities, local authorities, police and different ministries. Raids were conducted after the exposure. That helped in bringing down the trade, but without 
 regular raids one can’t shut the trade down. Mahboob Chowk located at a short distance from the   to the west of Charminar is still the hotspot of this illegal trade. A walk through the lanes of Mahboob Chowk will break your heart. helpless animals and birds are imprisoned in tiny, dirty, smelly cages without even enough space to turn or fly; their sad eyes plead you to set them free.” 
 
 Since it’s almost next to impossible to spot a palapitta in cities like Hyderabad, the bird catchers trap them in agricultural fields and bring them to the cities to sell or commercially exploit them for ‘darshan’. The scene is worse in villages, says Srikanth Bhamidipati of Birdwatchers Society of  . “We have helped nab a few bird-catchers and set the birds free. But later we realised that there’s no point. They are captured again and caged to serve their purpose in the next season. It’s like a vicious circle that won’t break till people are free of superstitions. Sighting a bird won’t bring anyone luck, but yes, torturing a bird to death will certainly bring you ill-luck, if there is such a thing.” 
 
 
 Awareness is the need of the hour, says  , field director   who believes that making people aware of legal implications may help to bring down this illegal trade. “I think this problem can be solved only by sensitising the public that capturing Indian Rollers is illegal. The penalty of this Act is a fine of `25,000 or imprisonment. Most people are not aware of the legal side, so first inform people that indulging in these activities is an offence. Then through continuous monitoring we can regulate the number of habitual offenders. This can be done only with the cooperation of NGOs and volunteers,” he adds.
 Humayun Taher, President of The  , has an interesting solution. “Most people who purchase these birds do so for ‘darshan’ and release them anyway. If the ceremony is just restricted to viewing the birds, I think the forest department and zoo should cooperate in this matter. In zoos, birds that are in captivity are used to it and they are cared by efficient people, so under their surveillance, if a display of one or two birds are arranged in different parts of the city, people can come and have their darshan and go back happily.” 
 
 
