CHENNAI: The   is planning to introduce a business facilitation law to ensure a time-bound approval process for industrial projects and to have an effective single-window mechanism in place. This is the first time the state is moving on these lines to ensure that it reestablishes itself as the favourable destination for industrial investment in the country.

 The   Industrial Guidance & Export Promotion Bureau has circulated a draft copy of the proposed act to various   bodies in the sta te, seeking their feedback.
 
 Called the Tamil Nadu Business Facilitation Act 2017, it will ensure that investors have access to all information necessary to make informed decisions in a time-bound manner. Called the Tamil Nadu Business Facilitation Act 2017, it is a piece of legislation to support the state in its aspiration of being one of the most preferred investment destinations in the country . It ensures adequate information is available to investors, thereby enabling them to take informed decision. It is also to ensure a single point receipt of applications for seeking clearances that are required to establishexpand an enterprise and for clearances required during normal course of business including renewals in a timebound manner.
 
 In addition, it will enable In addition, it will enable a mechanism to provide for effective grievance redressal mechanism and penalty in case of failure of competent authorities to act on time, said the note circulated to the industry bodies.
 
 “After having gone through the draft, there is positive response from the industry for this initiative. It is an attempt to bring in all agencies under one portal, including pollution, land and building approvals (for industries) under a single window that will benefit all if there is a better co-ordination , which is lacking now,“   Coimbatore Zone chairman S   told TOI.
 
 The state government in association with the CII held a few stake holders' meeting across cities including Coimbatore, Trichy and Madurai.
 
 “In the meeting held in Coimbatore, the government sought inputs on measures that need to be incorporated as part of this single window mechanism. We have suggested infrastructure ­ providing roads and drainage ­ even for industrial sites, to be included,“ Narayanan said.
 
 “While the Act as such will be promulgated in the near future, further inputs provided by the industry are likely to be included as sec tions and sub-sections of the Act,“ he added. “Such initiatives are good for new industries and investments that will come in. But, the government should also take care of the problems faced by the existing industrial units in the state and address their concerns. It will help, if there is an automatic route through an online mechanism for renewal and that is important,“ said Council for Leather Exports (CLE) former chairman M Rafeeque Ahmed.
 
 “Such an act, combined with a policy , will drive the state to attract investments in the days to come. The state needs such branding. The IT sector plays an important role, and time bound approvals will help the Indian IT sector or achieve $100 billion in IT exports by 2025, from the present $17 billion,“ said   senior director K Purushothaman.
 
