UDAIPUR: Sunday turned out to be a   in the remote settlement in Sagwara, Dungarpur as they watched   along with the district collector and legislator.

 The special screening of the movie for the schoolgirls was arranged at the behest of collector   who wanted the young minds to be inspired by the movie where a father makes his daughters chase his dreams and coaches them to become wrestlers. The movie revolves around the idea that girls are no less than boys.
 
 Students of   and inmates of hostels run by the tribal development and social welfare department got the opportunity to watch the movie which focuses on sensitive issues related to female child such as gender discrimination and women struggling to carve a niche for themselves in a male-dominated society.
 
 “The idea was to tell the girls that they are equally strong and capable like boys and there is no field where girls cannot excel,” Solanki told TOI. Solanki had last year set an example by adopting an orphan girl Chhaya Pargi, an inmate in one of the shelter homes in the district. He had also set up an art gallery at the collectorate building where artists can donate their paintings. The earnings from the sold paintings are spent on educating poor girls.
 
 Among the young audience there were many who had never seen a multiplex before. The young audience felt the pain at the movie’s most pointed barbs aimed at the status of women, specially young girls in rural areas while they clapped happily when the Phogat sisters, Geeta and Babita outshined their opponents in duels.
 
 Among those who watched the movie with the girls were Sagwara MLA Anita Katara, pradhan Rekha Roat, municipality chairperson Nirmala Ahari, tehsildar Vijay Kumar and many others. At the end of the movie, Prachi Bhavsar, one of the students went up on the center stage and thanked the authorities for the event. She specially thanked actor Amir Khan for making such a movie, she said, “The movie inspires girls and infuses feelings that they have lot more in life to achieve than just becoming stereotyped housewives”.
 
