SURAT: Surat city and district have the highest number of students with A1 and A2 grades in   conducted by Gujarat Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Board (GSHSEB), the results of which were announced on Thursday. Around 188 students secured A1 grade and 1,175 A2 grade in the   in the   and rural areas of the district. 

 Rajkot has the second highest number of achievers from a centre with 87 students securing A1 grade there. Vadodara had 62 students who got A1 grade and Ahmedabad city and rural some 59 students with this grade. Two centres from south Gujarat have highest number of students with ‘Need Improvement’ grade. Surat had 2,171 students with NI grade which was highest in the region followed by Valsad with 2,103 candidates. These students would have to appear in the examination again. 
 
 “Proportionately, the number of students getting A1 grade is better compared to other districts. Similarly, less number of students got NI grade if we calculate the proportion to the total number of students and compare it with other districts,” said U N Rathod, district education officer.
 
 In all, 16,654 students from Surat appeared in the examination while from Ahmedabad city and rural, the number of candidates was 17,219. 
 
 Meanwhile, a number of students on Thursday said despite securing high marks, they may not be able to get admission in medical courses because pro-rata system has been removed from medical admissions. From the next academic year, score of only NEET examination will be considered. Until now board examination score was also considered along with entrance examination mark for Gujarat students.
 
 “Board marks should be considered along with  , otherwise there is no meaning scoring 97 per cent marks. This is a major loss for board students who had performed well in the examination,” said Dharav Dalal, a student.
 
 “I scored 95 per cent marks and doubt if my marks will be good in NEET too. Further, there is no practical examination of biology in NEET and hence   should be counted for medical admission,” said  , a student.
 
