CHENNAI: Admitting to grave concerns about the growing water crisis in the state, the Tamil Nadu government on Tuesday said it was staring at a “drought“ in the wake of poor northeast monsoon. Chief minister O Panneerselvam said high-level teams of ministers and senior officials would be constituted to assess crop damage and extend relief to distressed farmers.

 In a statement, the CM said the teams would tour districts and submit a report to the government on January 10. The Panneerselvam-led cabinet will meet on Wednesday to discuss the water crisis and measures to tackle it.
 
 The state's move to set up high-level teams comes against the backdrop of growing number of suicides of farmers due to crop failure and demand from the opposition to declare the state as drought-hit and seek financial assistance from the Union government. Going by the meteorological data, the state has received only 168.3mm as against the normal rainfall of 440mm during the northeast monsoon until December 31. The crop assessment will have to be made in 10% villages in the districts as per the Centre's guidelines to declare the districts droughthit. “Collectors, barring Chennai collector, have been told to submit report to the government on crops and drought condition based on the spot assessment,“ Panneerselvam said. After the assessment, the state will declare drought and extend all aid.
 
 “I assure that the state will give due relief amount towards the crop damage, after the high-level teams submit their reports,“ he said, urging farmers not to panic as they would be entitled to relief. Apart from financial relief for affected crops extended by the state, farmers who insured crops will get compensation from insurance companies, he said.Those who raised paddy may get a compensation of `25,000 per acre, while others get damages based on the crop loss. It is the duty of “Puratchi Thalaivi Amma's (former chief minister  )“ government to protect farmers in this time of distress, he said.
 
 Farmers were entitled to compensation under crop insurance, as crop raised on 11.01 acres of 12.86 acres were insured. As many as 5.48 lakh farmers have insured their crops and have paid a premium of `44.81 crore. In the non-delta region, 6.71 lakh farmers insured crop and paid premium of `36.3 crore. On its part, the state has paid premium of `410 crore.
 
