NAINITAL: SUKHATAL— which feeds   of 40-53% water — is in dire condition owing to apathy of the government and the district administration which fail to protect its   from   leading to  , and its impact is visible on Naini lake, the water level of which has fallen about 14 feet below normal.
 
  After renowned classical singer Shubha Mudgal and more than 1,200 others signed a petition on ‘change.org’ recently urging Uttarakhand chief minister   to save the Naini lake from dying, experts pointed out that 'ecological ignorance' at every level of governance is responsible for the dilapidated condition of Sukhatal, barely one and half kilometres from Naini lake, which feeds the latter after September when monsoon is over.
  
  Prof Bhaskar Vira, director, Cambridge Research Institute, University of Cambridge, the United Kingdom, said, “Nowhere it is more important than the Himalayas, where the combined pressures from climate change, demography, and migration are impacting water resources and lives. It is vitally important to protect and rejuvenate our wetlands and ecologically-critical water zones, using best available knowledge.”
  
  Despite National Institute of Hydrology, a premier research institute, nearly 20 years ago presented strong evidences backed by robust research data about the importance of Sukhatal for the survival of Naini, the authorities concerned remained impervious to suggestions.
  
  The Naini-Sukhatal connection was further elucidated by a study carried out by Centre for Ecology Development and Research (CEDAR) in collaboration with   by top Himalayan geologists and environmentalists in April 2015. It also pointed out the significance of Sukhatal in Naini’s survival.
  
  The study suggests Sukhatal provides more than 40% subsurface flow to Naini round the year, especially during drier months. The capacity to absorb large amount of rainwater is the biggest service of Sukhatal, which is part of the Ayarpatta ridge largely composed of limestone and dolomite characterised by karst features, which hold huge amount of water and allows subsurface flows not only to the lake, but also to the single largest spring ‘Pardadhara’.
  
  Vishal Singh, a CEDAR ecologist, said, “The importance of Sukhatal and the underground geology is also reflected by the sheer fact that considerable amount of water is extracted by two tube wells to meet the drinking water demand of the town, and is suggestive of the fact that a unconfined aquifer lies beneath the lake bed.
  
  “The Nainital fault bisects Naini lake into two, and runs parallel to Sukhatal, direction of the slope allows the infiltrated water from Sukhatal to follow the path of the fault to reach Naini lake and Pardadhara. This highly-competent group of researchers also suggest the efficiency of Sukhatal lake in terms of recharge to surface area is amongst the highest in the Himalayan regions.”
  
  In June 2016, in a bid to save Sukhataal, the Uttarakhand high court —hearing a public interest litigation filed by Ajay Singh Rawat in 2012 — had ordered the removal of encroachments, and directed IIT-Roorkee to submit a detailed project report (DPR) about beautification and recharge of Sukhataal area.
  
  Following which, a DPR on the preservation and resurrection of the area was prepared by experts from geology department and IIT-Roorkee, which was also submitted to the state government, besides the court.
