MADURAI: The Madras high court Madurai bench has set aside a landmark order passed by a single judge in a review petition which prevented termination of a   without being served notice or reason. The court dismissed the judgement on technical grounds stating that the review court should have only interfered “when there is an error apparent on the face of the record” and should not have heard the matter based on merit.

 The single judge had passed the order on November 7 last year in a review petition, setting aside the order of the commandant of   ( ) unit in Arakonam dated on January 9, 2012, terminating sub-inspector (SI) R   and directing the force to continue training of the SI with all consequential service and monetary benefits.
 
 Challenging it, the ministry of home affairs and director general of CISF preferred appeal contending that the review court had exceeded its jurisdiction while considering the review petition against the order, passed in the writ petition filed by the Thiagarajan in 2012 challenging the order of termination.
 
 There is an alternative remedy available to the petitioner (SI) under rule 26(1) of CISF rules which he could have appealed as against his termination order, the appellant said. The division bench of judges T S   and P Velmurugan heard the appeal.
 
 The appellants said that the review court came to the conclusion that provisions of Rule 26(1) of CISF rules would not apply to the case at hand because the issue regarding whether the petitioner is a probationer or in regular employment itself is in dispute. 
 
 Having made such an observation, the review court proceeded to deal with the merits of the claim of the petitioner that the order of termination is stigmatic and after referring to certain decisions, allowed the review petition and set aside the termination order.
 
 "The settled legal principle is that review petition is not an appeal in disguise. The court, while exercising review jurisdiction, cannot rehear the matter, but interfere with only when there is an error apparent on the face of the record. Thus, if the review court was of the view that the provisions of rule 26(1) of CISF rules are not attracted, then order to that effect should have been passed and the writ petition should have been restored to the file to be heard on merits. However, the review court exceeded its jurisdiction and proceeded to interfere with the order of termination on merits. Thus, we are of the clear view that the review court had proceeded to deal with the merits of the matter, it was not entitled to do, since such an issue was never adjudicated by the writ court and therefore, the review court could not at the first instance undertake such exercise. Thus, on this technical ground, we are inclined to interfere with the order passed in the review petition. Thus, the writ petition itself can be listed for disposal at an early date," justice Sivagnanam said.
 
 Accordingly, the bench allowed the writ appeal by setting aside the order made in the review petition and restoring the writ petition filed in 2012 to be heard and decided by the appropriate bench.
 
 
