GREATER NOIDA: The   in Jewar said on Sunday that they were satisfied that the accused were arrested thought the case got delayed. “We demand   for all the four accused for their  ,” a   told TOI at her residence in Jewar Kasba.

 She said that the past two months have been a difficult time for the family. “I had four brothers. Two of them died unnatural deaths – one was poisoned and another one died in a train accident a few years ago. Now the third brother was killed for resisting sexual assault against us. We have only one brother now and we are scared of his safety,” she said. The family members said they have applied for licences for weapons but the file seems to have stuck in red-tapism.
 
 She said that she was pained when the police and doctors of district hospital had said that the investigation did not reveal rape. “All the four women were gang raped by the criminals that fateful night. We recorded our statement before the police and the magistrate. The doctors and police earlier said that the preliminary investigation did not reveal rape. Now the police themselves are saying there was gang rape as per forensic report,” she said.
 
 A day after the gang rape, SSP Love Kumar, CMO Anurag Bhargawa and district magistrate B N Singh had held a joint press conference and said that the medical report of the survivors did not indicate rape. The officials had collected vaginal swab and DNA samples and sent them to forensic laboratory in Lucknow for further investigation.
 
 The deceased scrap dealer’s nephew said on Sunday morning that he got a call from a media person at around 5 am informing about the arrest of four criminals. “We immediately called police on phone and they confirmed the arrests. Later they called us at some location for identification of the accused. Four male members, who were in the Maruti Eeco, and a relative reached at the designated spot at around 11am. We immediately identified the accused as they were the same persons who attacked us. We can’t forget their faces,” he said.
 
 
