Thiruvananthapuram:   in city zoo have become the priciest attraction for zoo authorities in animal exchange programmes. The zoo, which has been carrying out breeding programme for the exotic flightless bird, is now receiving requests including one from Thailand for Rhea birds.

 One of the zoos in Thailand has contacted city zoo authorities for 20 pairs of rheas. The exchange programme will soon take wings once the zoo authorities finalize on which animal to be received in return, said zoo vet Jacob Alexander. Even private owners show their interest in buying the rheas for which they are ready to exchange other exotic birds.
 
 Trivandrum city zoo, with its flock of rheas, is also becoming the focal point for other zoos and veterinary research institutes in Kerala as well as in India. Two pairs have been requested by the Kanpur zoo and four pairs by Jaipur Zoo for which the city zoo would get hyenas in return.
 
 The zoo has been hatching rhea chicks through incubation for the last two years. “We weren’t able to collect the egg laid by rhea in its enclosure as it was taken away by crows or would remain in damaged state. Taking into consideration the fact that rheas are relatively less or absent in Indian zoos, we started this incubation process in 2015,” says Dr Jacob Alexander.
 
 The whole tale behind the incubation of rhea centres around the two male rheas, one in brown and another in white colour and a brown female rhea near the ostrich’s enclosure. Called as the ‘mother of all rheas,’ she has laid eggs which were hatched through incubation process resulting in a total of 60 rheas in 2015. “We conducted an exchange programme which offered twelve birds to Delhi Zoo, Thrissur Zoo, Vandalur zoo and few others,” Jacob Alexander said, further stating that the Delhi Zoo is keenly interested in getting more of rheas.
 
 “An average rhea egg would weigh around 500g and it may go up to 700g,” says Alexander. The zoo is planning to provide rheas to veterinary research institutes for free to promote research, presuming its capacity to be a major source of egg and meat production.
 
 Being a colour and sound sensitive bird, the zoo gives proper attention even after the incubation process ensuring that the bird receives abundant vitamin D.
 
 
