Madurai: The DMK leadership on Saturday strongly criticised governor Vidyasagar Rao for the delay in directing chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami to prove his majority in the assembly. Speaking at the party’s mupperum vizha – birth anniversaries of Thanthai Periyar, Annadurai and DMK — at Dindigul, DMK working president M K   said he hoped that the judiciary would render justice in the case. 

 He reiterated that the party would spearhead a massive protest to change the government by mobilising the people if no justice came from the judiciary. Stalin distributed the Periyar award to N Krishnamoorthi, Anna award to P S Thiruvenkatam, Paavendar award to A Ambalavanan and Kalaignar award to Sankari Narayanan on the occasion. He also handed over scholarships to meritorious students and incentives to honest auto drivers at the function presided over by party secretary K Anbazhagan. 
 
 Saying that party president M Karunanidhi was watching the function on television, Stalin said, “DMK is not the opposition party but the ruling party. It has 1.10 crore members in 1,11,140 wards. Everyone expects the DMK to come to power. But, we will not capture power through backdoor.”
 
 He criticised the Union government for “spoiling the lives of Tamil Nadu students by introducing NEET” and the AIADMK government for “pledging the affairs of the people before the Centre.” He said the government’s abject surrender was for retaining the posts they enjoyed and evading income tax raid and attachment actions of enforcement directorate. “Many issues have been kept idle. They include seizure of Rs 520 crore from container, Rs 5 crore from Karur Anbunathan, income tax raid on former chief secretary P Rama Mohana Rao, arrest of deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam’s benami Sekar Reddy, seizure of Rs 89 crore from health minister Vijayabaskar during R K Nagar byelection, deposit of Rs 246 crore in a bank in Thiruchengode and gutkha scam in which police officials are involved,” he said. 
 
 
