Is your child showing sluggish behaviour and lacks concentration when studying? If that is the case, you will have to look at the type of   he/she might be pursuing. Along with reducing the gadget time for children, the overall development of the child’s mind is necessary to make them alert, sharp and creative. Just like studying and playing, a structured approach to introducing hobbies will help you in making your child smarter. Try these to get their developing minds into action.

 
 Kids need mental exercise too and what best then getting them to do puzzles, crosswords and word games. Get them into the habit of solving the same in activity books right from an young age. When they are little older, they will turn to solving sudoku or learn to play chess. These brainteasers help challenge your child when it comes to problem solving. 
 
 
 Studies have maintained that learning a second language after the age of 10 improves cognitive functions, making kids smarter. Children who are adept in multiple language, can focus better when under pressure and can source relevant information. 
 
 
 A child’s mind is ever-inquisitive and when they start collecting coins and postal stamps from the world over, they get to know about different countries and places. Their curiosity makes them learn more about these places like areas of interest, currencies and geographical attributes. 
 
 
 You may not enjoy it much when your child has just started his lessons to play any musical instrument, but it is beneficial to them in the long run since it can help prevent the decline in the ability to recognize words and comprehend speech in later years. Music lessons have shown to benefit children’s IQ and academic 
 performance. 
 
 
 While free play helps kids grow up into happy, healthy adults, participation in organized sports builds their confidence, teaches teamwork and leadership skills. So encourage your child to pick up a ball or take them with you for a jog even as you talk to them about getting into school sports. 
 
