PUNE: Tuesday’s when over   students will appear for the secondary school certificate (SSC, standard X) exam from nine divisions of the state including Pune, Mumbai, Nashik, Aurangabad, Amravati, Nagpur, Latur, Kolhapur and Konkan.

 The biggest challenge for the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education which conducts these exams will be preventing the question papers from leaking out. 
 
 With a series of question papers for higher secondary certificate (HSC, standard XII) already leaked in the past one week, the state board will have to ensure that the SSC papers do not face any such malpractice.
 
 Last week, the HSC exams started with two  , both in Mumbai for Secretarial Practice and Marathi. Both papers were leaked from an instant messaging app. 
 
 The Mumbai division has already lodged a police complaint. State board chairman Gangadhar Mhamane told TOI on Sunday that, “Besides a police complaint against the culprits, we have also lodged a complaint with the   to locate the source of the persons who leaked this paper. We will not think twice to lodge a criminal case against the guilty.”
 
 Mhamane strictly warned that if teachers are found to be involved in these incidents, the board would take administrative action against them. “We will not tolerate any kind of exam malpractice and paper leaks through cellphone apps have become a serious crime in the last one year,” he added.
 
 The state board has appointed counsellors to help students overcome exam stress and studies-related problems. The counsellors will also assist parents between 8am and 8pm each day throughout the exam period, Mhamane said.
 
 Students with disability will be given concessions. But these students have to use the same writer for all subjects. For SSC students as well, the board has made provision of appointing an adult writer. Students can appoint a writer from a higher class as declared for the higher secondary certificate (HSC, class XII) examination from this year.
 
 The board has made arrangements to avoid malpractices during the exam. Flying and sitting squads, CCTV cameras and monitoring committees under the chairmanship of district collectors have been set up.
 
 The district collectors will give surprise visits to exam centres in order to monitor the functioning of examination. 
 
 Meanwhile, the state board has also requested the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) to avoid load shedding at exam centres.
 
