Nothing beats the heat in Mumbai like a barf ka gola on the streets. So, when BT caught up with   on a scorching day, here’s what came of it: she made ice-golas for some kids, and told us how she manages to keep it cool in summer. Excerpts... 

 
 I used to have Indian street food during my formative years, whenever we visited India. I used to love it, especially the ice gola. However, ever since I’ve moved here, I’ve had several episodes of food poisoning. So, these days, I eat the kind of street food that Mumbai is known for, but from smaller restaurants. It’s not as much fun, but I have a very weak stomach. Trust me, I’m working on my stomach’s resistance power. 
 
 
 I’m adjusting with it even now. I stay indoors as much as possible, and when I step out, I wear airy clothes and a lot of sunblock. I don’t care about getting tanned, I actually like it, but what is not okay is to get a sunburn. That’s harmful for the skin. The only way to beat the heat is to embrace it because it’s not going anywhere.
 
 
 My house stands on an acre of land, has six bedrooms and is a country-styled home in the middle of the city. Imagine finding an acre of land in the middle of Juhu (Mumbai) with nothing but a view of the sea! That’s what I feel like when I’m in my new house. My husband Daniel (Weber) and I are proud of the house because we’ve bought it after a lot of struggle and hard work. The first morning in our new home, when I saw my dogs running around the place… it was a priceless feeling. It is my forever home, where I will grow old and watch the sunset with my husband evening after evening, but right now, work beckons. So, we’ll see how it goes. 
 
 
 I work on my Hindi as much as I can. Yes, it’s important to ensure language doesn’t become a barrier when I’m delivering my lines. Artistes go through hurdles in their careers. Mine have been tough on me, but I have learnt from each of them. I’ve met really nice people who have given me some great advice. I’ve also worked with some amazing people here. I am not sure if I will ever completely fit into Bollywood, but I am happy in the space I am.
 
 
 
