KOLKATA: A debate is often enough to spur an engaging war of words and ideas, but when you have someone like   Boris Johnson in attendance, it’s bound to be laced with humour, wit and fireworks.

 The   University International Debate on Thursday evening had all that and much more, thanks to Johnson who was the chief guest. He perfectly rounded up the hour-and-half long argument session on whether physical campuses were now irrelevant through a short but lively round of questions and answers.
 
 Even though ‘an alcoholic sponge of amnesia’ has robbed him of his debating memories back in Oxford, he enjoyed the session thoroughly, said the former mayor of London. He went on to call for a ‘living bridge of education between India and UK’. “Indians contribute in many ways other than the fees that they bring in,” observed Johnson.
 
 It evoked a question from an Indian student of Cambridge taking part in the debate. Will his visit lead to policy proposals that will be make it easier for Indian students seeking admission and studying in UK varsities? Johnson rose from his chair and answered energetically. “I am at the liberal end of argument here. Overseas students contributed 5 billion pounds annually 10 years ago. It’s much more now…. We must remain open to talent,” said Johnson.
 
 He went on to add that UK had a very good record of fighting hate crimes and xenophobia. “We are the most diverse economy in the world and speak 300 languages. UK is a fantastic place to study and live in. We have a huge number of international students, including 100,000 Chinese students. The number of Indians is growing and we have a 91% satisfaction rate with visa handling in India,” he said.
 
 It led to another question on the possible impact of growing pollution and the measures against it. Johnson was at his humourous best. “I just had a fantastic conversation with chief minister  . I did suggest cycle tracks along roads to her. But she didn’t seem to like it. Bicycles are simply the best and they have reduced the number of people killed on London roads,” said Johnson.
 
 Earlier in the evening, the debate saw a group of students from across the world cross swords on the future of physical university campuses. Students from Oxford, Cambridge, London School of Economics, Sydney University, Presidency University, St. Xavier’s University, Benaras Hindu University and   took part. 
 
 While those arguing in favour of the motion said online and diital learning will soon turn campuses redundant, the opposition argued that nothing could replace classroom teaching, interaction and honing of behaviourial skills in a physical campus. The debate was won by the group arguing for the motion.
 
 
