AURANGABAD: The  , which helps   of many difficult cases, got a shot in the arm recently after the government approved creation of 225 new posts for its laboratories across the state. In addition, 50 posts of the class IV staffers would be outsourced in the state. 

 The decision has come within a month of the Bombay high court asking the state government why it has filled sensitive posts in the regional forensic science laboratories (RFSL) on contract. There are seven RFSL in Maharashtra.
 
 The division bench comprising Justice Abhay Oka and Justice   on January 11, while hearing a PIL by NGO Sahayak, said, “If the regional forensic science laboratories are not properly equipped, it has direct impact on the administration of criminal justice.”
 
 The NGO filed a PIL before the HC alleging corruption in purchases of equipment in the state forensic department and also highlighted how posts are not filled. As on date, the RFSLs has sanctioned strength of 1,045 posts, out of which 260 were vacant.
 
 New appointments would be made for the posts of assistant chemical analysers, deputy and assistant directors in the departments of cybercrime, DNA, tape authentification and speaker identification, and stores department at the cities of Mumbai, Nagpur, Pune, Aurangabad, Nashik, Amravati, Nanded and Kolhapur. The state has allotted funds to the tune of Rs 11.21 crore for the 225 posts, while an additional amount of Rs 1.12 crore for the remaining 50 posts.
 
 The recruitment would help in the operations of the 45 mobile support units at different parts of the state. As per the government resolution issued by the home department, 45 posts of assistant chemical analysers, one deputy director, 14 assistant directors, 46 scientific officers (cybercrime) and 72 scientific assistants (cybercrime) have been created.
 
 A senior bureaucrat privy to the development said, “Out of these posts, two posts each of assistant directors have been created at the centres of Pune, Aurangabad, Nashik, Amravati, Nanded and Kolhapur, while one each has been created at the centres situated in Mumbai and Nagpur.”
 
 Apart from this, 33 new posts in the DNA department of the forensic science laboratories situated at these eight destinations have been created. The DNA department will be headed by a deputy director rank officer at the state level, followed by eight assistant directors at the eight centres, who would be assisted by 16 assistant chemical analysers and eight scientific assistants in the state.
 
 Of the 50 posts that would be outsourced, 19 are of lab assistants and six sanitary workers at the departments of cybercrime and tape authentication and identification, while 17 lab assistants and eight sanitary workers would be posted with the DNA department of the   that would start functioning soon. 
 
 Another senior officer from the state secretariat said, “Considering the sensitivity of the cases that forensic department deals with, the state has decided to have a full-time lawyer with the department instead of hiring legal services of private law practitioners.”
 
