NEW DELHI: The FIR in the murder of a 24-year-old fruit vendor in custody at Adarsh Nagar police station shows a sinister plot to pass off the death as a case of accident. It points towards a well thought out conspiracy in which the police hoped to get away with the body being declared “unidentified”. It clearly mentions that the police shifted the body to another place and destroyed evidence. 

 More than seven unidentified dead bodies are found on the streets of Delhi daily. Most of these people are homeless and the cases are never probed. Sources say the rogue cops were careful enough to dump the body in a deserted area which fell under their jurisdiction. This was to ensure that in case things went awry, they would be the ones probing the case.
 
 Initially, things went according to plan since no missing complaint was lodged by Sompal’s family even two days after he disappeared. As   lived in the jurisdiction of Adarsh Nagar police station, the cops were confident that the family won’t go anywhere else to lodge a complaint.
 
 However, the cops left a trail which blew the lid off the conspiracy, the FIR reveals. They had logged the arrival of Sompal at the police station as entry number 54B in the daily dairy register, says the FIR. This proved, without any doubt, that Sompal was at the police station before his death and nailed the lies of the police.
 
 The FIR was lodged on the complaint of SI  , who played a critical role in unravelling the conspiracy. In his statement, the SI said, he had gone to the   road located behind   station after receiving a call of a man lying near the drain.
 
 “When I reached the spot, a PCR van was present and a youth was lying on his stomach and bleeding from his head. The PCR van took the body to hospital where he was declared brought dead. I called the crime and forensic teams and got the spot inspected. Exhibits were lifted. Another inspector reached the hospital and we inspected the body. He had injuries on both his knees and bleeding was noticed from mouth and nose. A probe was initiated under 174 CrPC,” said the SI.
 
 According to him, efforts were initiated to identify the body and UIDB (unidentified body) procedure was initiated even as the body was preserved for autopsy in the mortuary. 
 
 A day later, the SI got a tip-off about the man being Sompal whose details were mentioned as a DD entry at the same police station. He displayed presence of mind and brought seniors, including the DCP, into the picture. An FIR was finally lodged on December 31.
 
 The cops have slapped sections of culpable homicide (304), destruction of evidence (201 IPC), illegal confinement (342 IPC) and common intention (34 IPC) against the six policemen but no one has been arrested yet.
 
 
