MADURAI: The Madurai bench of the   on Tuesday directed the   commissioner to file counter to a case filed against the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation-funded Faecal Sludge Treatment Plant ( ) in Trichy district. 

 The court was hearing to a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by K R Pitchai, secretary of the Woraiyur – Pandamangalam and   Agriculturists Association. 
 
 According to the petitioner, the plant, which is to be set up at a cost of Rs 3.5 crore from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation fund, violates the city master plan.
 
 He said that in 2005, areas in and around Pandamangalam had been severly affected in the Cauvery floods. The collector had then resolved at a meeting that no construction would be allowed in the village. Besides, when the corporation had tried to set up a slaughter house, the villagers strongly opposed it, following which it was shifted.
 
 The officials have now given permission for the FSTP in a secret manner. They also did not follow procedures contemplated under the Tamil Nadu Tender Transparency Act in choosing a non-governmental organisation to carry out the scheme, he said. 
 
 After coming to know about the setting up of the plant which would affect them, the local people sent many representations to the authorities on December 27 last. But, there was no action on their part, the petitioner said and added that the NGO, Gramalaya was now taking steps to occupy the place. Hence, it was necessary to restrain the NGO from entering the village and stop the officials from establishing the unit, the petitioner prayed.
 
 Following this, the bench directed the commissioner of Trichy corporation to file counter to the case.
 
 Faecal sludge management refers to the removal, treatment and disposal of faecal sludge from holding tanks. It may be recalled that the Tamil Nadu Urban Sanitation Support Programme (TNUSSP) selected Trichy Corporation as a demonstration for FSTP to maintain a safe and hygienic environment. It is said that water treated would be used for irrigation and the sludge would be converted into manure.
 
