NEW DELHI: In a bid to dent AAP’s vote bank in slums and unauthorised colonies, which have a sizeable   population,   has fielded 32   from the community for the upcoming municipal elections.

 The maximum number of tickets have been given in areas such as Burari, Karawal Nagar, Sangam Vihar, Matiala, Seemapuri, Laxmi Nagar and Uttam Nagar, which have a large percentage of Poorvanchali voters. According to rough estimates, there is close to 25-30% of Poorvanchali population in Delhi.
 
 According to BJP functionaries, this decision will help the party make inroads in unauthorised colonies and JJ clusters, which were considered a Congress stronghold till the emergence of AAP. After its humiliating defeat in 2015 assembly elections, BJP has been making an effort to woo the Poorvanchali community.   MP Manoj Tiwari’s elevation as Delhi unit chief was the first step in this direction.
 
 “Tiwari’s appointment has helped the party make inroads in slums and unauthorised colonies, where BJP had little presence. Ever since he took charge, events, including the state executive meeting and night stays, have been organised in areas with Poorvanchali population,” said a senior BJP functionary.
 
 Though BJP benefited from its decision to give tickets to Poorvanchalis in the 2012 civic elections—the party won 12 out of 18 wards where it had fielded candidates from this community—these areas have gained significance after the 2015 assembly polls in which BJP faced a humiliating defeat. 
 
 Slums and unauthorised colonies had a massive contribution to AAP’s sterling performance in the assembly polls. “The demography of Delhi has changed because of more people from other states coming here. They constitute a significant part of the total electorate,” said a senior party member.
 
 Addressing a press conference on Tuesday, Tiwari stressed the fact that the party had increased the number of seats given to the community compared to last municipal elections. “Last time, we gave 18 tickets to Poorvanchali candidates. This year we have fielded 32 candidates,” he said. In 2012, BJP’s decision to field Poorvanchali candidates helped the party win in east Delhi, which used to be a Congress bastion.
 
 Post delimitation, slums and authorised colonies have become crucial for winning elections. “There are more municipal wards in these areas than planned areas,” said a party functionary.
 
 For BJP, the municipal polls are crucial to remain relevant in the state. But the party faces an uphill task in the face of strong anti-incumbency. There is a perception that BJP has not been able to do much work despite being in power in the corporations for a decade.
 
 
