Kiratpur Sahib: Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh and his son Raninder Singh immersed the mortal remains of ‘Rajmata’ Mohinder Kaur into the Satluj river at Gurdwara Patalpuri Sahib here on Thursday. The chief minister stood with his son and other members of the erstwhile royal family, as Raninder performed the immersion at the Asth Ghat.

 Amarinder led the family for ‘ardas’ before the immersion and later offered prayers at the gurdwara, before partaking langar. The chief minister's brother Malwinder Singh, son-in-law Gurpal Singh, his grandsons Nirvan Singh and Yadhuinder Singh besides Harshdeep Singh Dhillon, son of his younger sister, were present on the occasion.
 
 The family left their residence at New Moti Bagh palace early this morning. They collected the mortal remains of the Rajmata from the Shahi Samadhan in Patiala, where she was cremated on Tuesday, a day after she passed away following a prolonged illness.
 
 An emotional Amarinder, joined by his brother, son and grandsons, picked up the last remains of his mother at the cremation ground.
 
 The ashes were then carried, in a flower-decked vehicle, to Kirtapur for immersion. Raninder cradled the urn in his lap as the family left Shahi Samadhan.
 
 Punjab speaker Rana K P Singh, state ministers Brahm Mahindra, Rana Gurjit Singh, Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa and several MLAs were those present during the immersion.
 
 Sonia expresses grief over Amarinder’s mother’s demise
 
 Congress president Sonia Gandhi expressed grief at the passing away of the Rajmata and recalled her contribution to the party and the country, and her “unshakeable” patriotism. In a condolence letter to the Punjab chief minister, she described the Rajmata as a lady who lived her life with utmost grace and dignity, and with a strong sense of service to the party and the nation. “In her years as a member of the Rajya Sabha and the Lok Sabha, she demonstrated unshakeable patriotism, as well as her commitment to furthering education, and through that, the values of good citizenship,” Sonia wrote, adding the Rajmata was admired and respected across the political spectrum. The Rajmata lived a long and fulfilled life, “and your own career in public life must have been a source of great pride and joy to her,” Sonia further said, adding “May her soul rest in peace.”
 
 
