ALWAR: Expressing concern over  ,   chief minister   on Saturday said despite efforts by the government, the revival of rivers is not possible without  . Chouhan was in Thanagazi panchayat samiti on Saturday to participate in social activists leadership development camp organised by Tarun Bharat Sangh. He was the chief guest at the function.

 The MP CM said, “Until and unless people start participating in such schemes, the schemes will not become successful. More than 50 activists working for revival of rivers across the country participated in the camp.
 
 He said that in the entire country, more or less all rivers are in a bad shape. It is happening because of tampering with the nature which enhances risk of global warming.
 
 Chouhan added that factories have destroyed rivers. Even most popular rivers are facing such agony. He said that aiming to save the lifeline of MP, Narmada, they have introduced Narmada Sewa Mission. For the purpose, they have prepared a complete plan. Under the mission, 5 crore saplings will be planted on both sides of the river from July 2.
 
 On the occasion, Rajendra Singh, who is the winner of Ramon Magsaysay Award 2001, and also known as waterman of Rajasthan said that the Supreme Court has made significant decisions but he alleged that decisions in favour of rich and influential are implemented immediately but those in favour of forests, underprivileged and rivers take time for implementation.
 
 He said that they demand the government should immediately implement such orders in favour of river, forest and underprivileged people. Despite court orders, the governments and bureaucrats take matters very lightly.
 
 He said that across the state, work for revival of 100 big rivers is in progress.
 
 ‘Will protest if Lokayukts not appointed’
 
 Alwar: Social crusader Anna Hazare on Saturday announced to stage a protest at Ramlila Maidan in Delhi if the government’s apathy towards appointing Lokayukts continues. 
 
 He was addressing newspersons in Alwar after taking part in a programme organised by Tarun Bharat Sangh in Thanagazi panchayat samiti. He said that he had written a letter to Prime Minister   in this regard informing him that if Lokayukts will not be appointed, he, along with social activists and supporters will protest against the government at Ramlila Maidan. 
 
 He said that his agitation has nothing to do with change in power, but it has to do with change in system. He said that even President of India has signed on Lokpal Act but still Lokpals have not been appointed.
 
