PUNE: Amid the palpable exuberance on city streets after Bharatiya Janata Party’s thumping victory, Puneites TOI spoke to sought a ‘real’ change with a greater emphasis on smart city and metro projects to bring about the development, which the party had promised before the polls.

 Amit Paigude, a resident of NIBM Road and a small-time businessman, said the winning party should now focus on civic issues. “Now is the time for the winning corporators to solve long-pending problems of garbage and drinking water to bring about a positive and noticeable change,” he said.
 
 Eagerly awaiting the poll results at the New English School on Tilak Road in the afternoon,   supporter Chandrashekhar Gokhale said, “The BJP has always stood for developmental projects like the smart city and the metro. I expect the party to replicate all the projects undertaken on a national level by Prime Minister   in the city too.” 
 
 The crowds outside counting centres had several glued to their smartphones, which were tuned directly into streaming the election results. “Yes, it is very hot today, but it doesn’t matter. The BJP has been doing well in most of the panels. Our interest is also in Mumbai and thanks to the smartphones, live updates are easy to access,” Akshay Pundol, a supporter, said while closely scanning his cellphone.
 
 Wanowrie resident and homemaker Sangeeta Jagtap, said, “A month or two before the election, things started to change in the Salunke Vihar area. The roads were newly tarred and a new park was completed in no time. These things have made me both happy and worried. I am happy as the area wears a fresh look, but worried as this is a recurring practice.”
 
 Citizens’ groups in Vimannagar said they were happy about the winning candidates in their area. “I am happy that the elected corporator here is a resident of the area. Since the BJP is in power both at the state and the Centre, excuses regarding clearances and disputes and lack of funds must stop,” Rashmi Narayan, secretary of the Vimannagar Residents’ Association, said. 
 
 Siddharth Bengle was happy mayor Prashant Jagtap had won. “Jagtap has done a lot for the development of Wanowrie. This is why youths from the area put their heart and soul campaigning for him. We want our representative to help us in getting employment,” Bengle said.
 
 On the issue of traffic, Wanowrie resident Hitesh Hans said, “We want our corporators to build a flyover from T-junction of Fatimanagar to Wanowrie circle for easing traffic.” Hans was joined by Tushar Kumavat, who too sought easing of traffic congestion at Sayyednagar railway crossing in Hadapsar. 
 
 Residents of Kharadi, meanwhile, went against the grain in voting for their NCP corporators once again. “Most of us in the area are confident of the newly elected candidates as the corporators of our area have taken time to address our issues individually in the past. They have shown results and hence earned our vote again. Having said that we need playgrounds, auditorium and a proper bus service connecting the area over the next five years,” Nitin Memane, a resident of Gera Emerald City North, said.
 
 Sarmesh Patil, a working professional and resident of Katraj, said, “I don’t think that much will change. It has been years but we are still struggling with poor public transport and roads.”
 
 Police also had a field day keeping the crowd at bay as and when they came closer to the counting centres. 
 
