Nagpur: With the standing committee of Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) recently approving the Rs3.5 crore proposal for sterilizing city’s stray dogs, the civic body now plans to call for Expression of Interest (EoI) in the coming week. NMC plans to operate around 50,000 dogs. NMC, which will be inviting national-level NGOs recognized by Animal Welfare Board of India (AWBI), will be paying Rs700 per animal birth control (ABC) operation to the NGOs, according to NMC veterinary officer Gajendra Mahalle. As per the proposal, five ABC centres will be set-up zone-wise in the city. Installation of CCTV cameras is mandatory at every centre. “The cost of setting-up ABC centres and cameras will be borne by NMC. Cameras are necessary to ensure transparency,” said Mahalle. NMC also plans to approach Animal Welfare Board of India (AWBI) and state animal welfare board for additional funds.  Terms laid down by the civic body specify that the organizations should have a minimum of two years’ experience in ABC operations or of operating at least 25,000 dogs. “The time frame for completing operations of 50,000 dogs will be around one year. It would depends on the number of NGOs that come forward,” said Mahalle adding it would be best if five different NGOs are selected for handling five centres. TOI was the first to report about this proposal. NMC has also formed a committee consisting of animal lovers, activists and practising veterinarians to prepare an action plan for carrying out ABC operations of stray dogs.  Apart from this committee, separate sub-committees will be formed at every centre to monitor the process. Each sub-committee will comprise one NMC zonal official, a technically sound private veterinary doctor, a representative of local NGO, and an animal lover. NMC will also approach animal husbandry department for delegating its officials as committee members. “They have to ensure the operations are performed effectively and as per the Animal Birth Control Rules, 2001," said Mahalle. The sub-committee will also be responsible for releasing and catching dogs from different streets. "The private doctor will be asked to verify the data post-operations. The committee will be submitting its centre's report regularly to NMC," said Mahalle.