KOLKATA: Children achieve more if they race, not with their peers but with themselves, stay ahead of their own aspirations.   extends a whole new world of knowledge, where learning is fun and education redefined.Our repertoire enables children to become critical thinkers and keen observers. These attributes in turn pave the way for grooming children into responsible, aware and caring adults of a global society.

 With its years of effort, The Times of India has positioned itself amongst the leading English newspapers across the world. Keeping the trend alive, with several international awards and recognitions, Times NIE continues to set the highest and most remarkable benchmarks in every aspect. Powered by technology and fast paced evolution, Times NIE aims at setting the pace and momentum for children enabling them to exploit their potential, staying ahead of their own selves.
 
 Over the last two decades, The Times of India, Student Edition has touched and influenced the lives of millions of children across the country in more than 12 cities.
 
 With this philosophy and background in mind, third edition of The Times NIE Stu dent of the Year Award has been organized in association with   on February 15.This award recognizes students whose accomplishments span academics, sports, conduct, leadership and service to their school and community.
 
 The event will begin at 1pm at  , venue partner for Times-NIE Student of the Year 2017. The chief guest for the event is  , minister for education, Government of West Bengal. A host of leading personalities and luminaries from different walks of life will also be present as guests of hon our. The key note address by the chief guest, felicitation ceremony of students and schools and a host of inspirational speakers are some of the key highlights of the event.
 
 Schools have been requested to nominate one student (only from Class XII) based on the following criteria: Academic (achieves scholastically across a range of subjects); Attitude (willing to help others; makes selfless contributions); Personal Conduct (exemplary at all times); Leadership (is a role model for other students); Service (participates fully in school and community activities); Sport (represents the school without necessarily being a champion).
 
