Hyderabad: It’s not just through off handish dealings in nondescript shops selling military paraphernalia that one gets to buy originals and ‘tailor copies’ of  . They are also up for grabs online, both in the country and abroad, in sites such as eBay. 

 An original   Special Service Medal (Suraksha) was auctioned off for $19.95 on January 20 on eBay in the United States of America. It was expressly mentioned that the medal would not be shipped to India. In the country, however, such an original medal can be bought for Rs 500. Another seller was found offering it for as less as Rs 299. 
 
 A General Service Medal, which sports the inscription ‘Goa, 1961’ has been priced at $45. It supposedly belongs to N Ram of the  . A Samanya Seva Medal from 1965, which reportedly belongs to Sep Tarsem Singh of Punjab with army number 2461896, was also put up on sale on the internet.
 
 The presence of medals with numbers and names on sale begs the question whether these are being sold by former soldiers or middlemen who have managed the procure them through various channels that are not so above-the-board.
 
 “It cannot be that any soldier sold his medal. When a soldier dies, his medal is pinned to his chest until his body is lowered into the grave or is cremated,” said retired Major General Satbir Singh, who has been in the forefront of the one rank one pension agitation in the country.
 
 The 72-year-old former soldier told TOI from Delhi that it is a matter of pride for any family to display army medals prominently at home. It is a source of honour and no one would want to sell that away, goes the popular opinion.
 
 But this doesn’t seem to be the case when it comes to original 25th and 50th Anniversary of Independence medals, which are found in huge numbers online. These medals were given to all armymen on the occasion — August 15, 1972 and the corresponding day in 1997. An original 25th anniversary medal was being sold online in India for Rs 360. Another seller was selling it for Rs 10 lesser.
 
 Customers in search of ‘tailor copies’ — duplicates that look like the originals but often weigh lesser — can also find a selection online. For instance, a medal bar comprising nine medals, is being auctioned on eBay by an e-seller from Kanpur. The starting bid is Rs 3,500. 
 
 
 
 
 Army medals — both original and ‘tailor copies’ — are being sold online 
 
 Original Indian Army Special Service Medal (Suraksha), eBay | $19.95 
 
 Same medal in eBay India | Rs 500
 
 General Service Medal with inscription, eBay | $45
 
 25th Anniversary of Independence medal | Rs 360
 
 Tailor copy of medal bar, with nine medals | Rs 3,500
 
 
