NAGPUR: From Rs 44 crores to Rs 500, the gap between   contesting in the upcoming civic polls is quite wide. It seems women are topping the chart of richest candidates this time.

 As per a random study of   that is available on the website of the state election commission, 48-year-old   from ward no 14 seems to be the richest one with a fortune of around Rs 44.64 crores.
 
 Fighting from Congress, this is the second time Kinkhede is trying her electoral luck. “I had contested in 2007 too but could not win. However, I am hopeful this time,” she says. Kinkhede will be contesting against sitting  .
 
 A resident of Civil Lines, Kinkhede runs a business with her husband Sanjay. Among her assets, real estate has the major share of Rs42.98 crores. This includes a non-agricultural land at Panjari worth Rs15 crores, a farmland worth Rs10 crores and a residential building in the city worth Rs10.43 crores. In her election affidavit, Kinkhede has declared owning jewellery worth Rs26.45 lakhs while her husband owns jewellery worth Rs26.55 lakhs.
 
 Second in the list is Sushma Chaudhary, a candidate from ward no 1, with Rs31.69 crores assets. Chaudhary owns real estate worth Rs30.54 crores and jewellery worth Rs6 lakhs. Among other financial bigwigs is Parineeta Fuke from ward no13 with total assets over Rs21 crore, Roopa Rai from ward no15 who has declared total assets of over Rs13 crore and Maheshwari Patle from ward no 38 having assets over Rs7 crores.
 
 Sitting corporator Anil Dhawde, who is facing murder charges along with punishment for forgery, dishonesty, using forged documents and punishment for criminal intimidation, has declared total assets worth Rs2.9 crores. Former standing committee chairman Ramesh Shingare has declared Rs1.29 crores assets.
 
 Competing with such millionaires are candidates like Shaguftabano Yusuf from ward no 3 with ‘zero’ assets. From ward 31, Jayesh Kaware has mentioned his total assets of Rs 2000 while a couple Avinash and Baby Kumbhalkar contesting from the same ward declared their assets as Rs1547 each. Ward 17’s Sushant Moon has declared his total assets as Rs500. 
 
 Experts however do not consider financial assets as a determining factor in winning the elections. Political analyst Anjali Gaidhane says, “Politics is a money game but personal financial assets declared by candidates are neither completely transparent nor does it matter a lot. In the end, it is the contestants’ popularity and public image that helps in winning.”
 
