NASHIK: Magsaysay award winner Rajendra Singh and professor   — an expert in human settlement and   — will present a technical report to municipal commissioner Abhishek Krishna on issues related to   River on February 6.

 The duo is preparing the report as per the orders of the Bombay High Court on public interest litigation by environmentalist Devang Jani who pleaded for removal of concrete, re-opening of concealed ponds and reviving live springs in Godavari River.
 
 Baste has a doctorate in human settlement and water resources and has been appointed as technical expert by the high court for issues pertaining to river in another case. The report will be presented to Krishna on February 6, the day when Godavari River is known to have taken birth according to mythology.
 
 The same evening a presentation on the history of the river, pollution and other issues will be shown to the people. The high court, in January, had ordered   ( ) to resolve the water pollution in Ramkund and surrounding areas in two months.
 
 It had also directed Jani to make a representation to the NMC after which the latter would have to resolve the issue in two months.
 
 Jani, a resident of Panchavati and an environmental activist, had filed the PIL on Godavari River pollution — particularly in Ramkund area — and non-functioning of water purification plant that was installed during Kumbh 2003-04.
 
 Water was lifted from Ramkund where pilgrims perform number of rituals, and transported through a pipeline to the filtration plant near Dutondya Maruti. After filtration, the water was transported back to Ramkund. “We requested Singh and Baste to give detailed information about problems of concretisation and what if the concrete is removed. Contour mapping of the total riverbed has been done,” said Jani.
 
 “We went to houses where flood water had entered. Even at a higher level near the river where there are wells or ponds in every second or third house there was water up to 15-20 feet. Even if the entire water is drained from the well it gets recharged in 5-7 hours. If this is the case in the high level areas imagine what it could be in the low lying areas,” Jani added.
 
 The survey was done physically in 15-20 houses near the river. A survey on groundwater and how aquifer mapping can be done after the riverbed and surrounding areas are de-concretised. Aquifer mapping would help in revealing natural live springs in the riverbed which the environmentalists believe could keep the water flowing and also the curb river pollution to a certain extent.
 
 Earlier, when there was no concretisation, 80% of the groundwater would be recharged and only 20% of the dam water was used to keep the river flowing, according to the survey.
 
 Meanwhile, environmentalists have also objected to modifications in the revised draft development plan (DP) which according to them has ignored NEERI’s guidelines. Petitioner of another PIL on river pollution Rajesh Pandit wrote to divisional commissioner Eknath Davle that NEERI’s suggestions have been sidelined in the DP.
 
 “The green belt near Nasardi river will be reduced as per a proposal in the DP. We object the usage of the term public amenities for sewage treatment plant plots,” said Pandit.
 
 
