GURUGRAM: “You have it in you, the spark that could ignite a thousand dreams.” So goes one of the motivational lines from an   on sport and hope. But this is no glamour sport, and this is no ordinary hope.

 Looking to change the national conversation around sport and sportspersons,   has launched #FanTheFire, an initiative that seeks to bring to light sports that struggle for attention, and the athletes who dream of winning international glory for their country, despite dispiriting obscurity and lack of official support.
 
 Conceptualised by Cheil India, the digital campaign stars figure   Nishchay Luthra. The Delhi boy, a four-time medal winner on the global stage (and nine-time national gold medalist), is training in Florida, his sights set firmly on the 2018 Winter Olympics, to be held in Pyeongchang, South Korea. Training, as the film reveals, “All on his own”.
 
 “This is our commitment to provide the fuel for Nishchay Luthra and many more like him,” shared Sean van Wyk, senior marketing director, adidas India.
 
 Relating Nishchay’s lonely journey in pursuit of his ambitions is his mother. The sentiments may be timeworn but they resonate because they’re expressed by one outside of the mainstream (“For this dream is not yours alone, but ours. So wake up, the world needs to know your name.”)
 
 Vijay Simha, group creative director at Cheil India, is not the only one who thinks that cricket enjoys a “disproportionately high” amount of exposure in India. It’s time, he says, to encourage the underdog sports and their dogged purveyors. “They are simply out of sight, out of mind. Once in a leap year, a Bindra or a Karmakar happens. The media milks the nation’s collective guilt, and soon we all forget,” bemoaned Simha.
 
 “This was gnawing away at us, as we discovered a series of stories about Indian athletes living in obscurity and even penury.
 
 “(But) adidas has always been about the athlete, no matter what the sport.” Indeed, the campaign, says Sanjeev Jasani – head-Digital, Cheil India – determinedly aspires to go beyond the glitz of cricket, and into the bylanes of Indian sport.
 
 #FanTheFire is purpose, perseverance and pain as seen through the eyes of Nishchay. But they could well be the eyes of the Indian javelin thrower, paddler, gymnast or rower, each of whom is forced to plough a lonely furrow. Glory, they never tire of proving, can lie outside cricket, and everyone deserves to be given the chance to shine.
 
 “I feel Nishchay’s story is just a spark that will soon be a fire, fanned by every Indian who cares,” says Simha. This won’t be the first time that adidas will be shining a light on the country’s other sporting heroes. For, they are as worthy of recognition as cricketers.
 
