Mumbai: India is expected to emerge as the lone shining star in the global pharmaceutical market with a compounded annual growth rate ( ) of 10-13% — not only surpassing China but also registering the fastest pace globally — over the next five years.

 The fact that India and China have been the fastest growing economies globally is known, but this is the first time that India will outshine China, recording nearly double of China’s growth over 2016-2021, data culled from  , an information and technology-enabled healthcare service provider, said. In fact, China’s growth may slow down and register a modest 5-8% over the same five-year period. 
 
 Global spending on medicines will reach nearly $1.5 trillion in 2021, growing at 4-7%, only slightly slower than the 5.9% growth rate over the past five years. While the US will continue as the world’s largest pharmaceutical market, ‘pharmerging’ markets will make up nine of the top 20 markets, with China ranked as No. 2. The next five years will see the market growing at a more consistent rate, but with much more attention focused on spending, growth and specifically pricing, said QuintilesIMS’ Global Outlook for Global Medicines through 2021.
 
 Overall, oncology, autoimmune and diabetes treatments will drive much of the growth, with developed market spending growth-driven by original brands, while pharmerging markets will continue to be driven by non-original products. 
 
 Drug spending in emerging economies will be driven by a combination of rapid population growth — a result of falling infant mortality rates — and longer life spans, increasing awareness about lifestyle diseases, and improvement in healthcare infrastructure. 
 
 “India’s pharmaceutical industry, which has been growing at a steady 12%, will be boosted by expansion in healthcare delivery and infrastructure, efficiencies derived from implementation of goods and services tax (GST), and overall economic growth,” says Sujay Shetty, leader (pharmaceutical & life sciences), PwC India.
 
 As against this China, which became the No. 2 global market in 2012 surpassing Japan, will grow at a slower rate to reach $140-170 billion, partly due to a slowdown in the economy as well as a series of price cuts. 
 
 Says Ranjit Shahani, VC and MD, Novartis India, “The year 2016 continued to show double-digit growth of the domestic pharmaceutical industry at 11%, the highest in the BRIC (Brazil, India, India and China) group, with the China juggernaut slowing down to single-digit even though their base is higher. Apart from being fired by high growth in the cardiac and diabetes segments, India’s growth was also a result of the high burden of disease, good economic growth leading to higher disposable incomes, improvements in healthcare infrastructure and improved healthcare financing. Even though all these were incremental and not at the scale, we need it all added up to a relatively good growth. However, the base is small and we need significant regulatory changes to step this, so no single person is denied or has no access to affordable and effective healthcare.”
 
 Though India will be the fastest growing   market, in value terms it continues to be low due to pricing pressure and gaps in healthcare funding and infrastructure. Asian markets including India, Pakistan and Bangladesh all spend from $20-30 per person per year. Medicines can often be provided to patients relatively cheaply, without a country making the full investment of a robust healthcare infrastructure, and these relatively low per-capita spending values are suggestive of significant remaining healthcare gaps where millions lack access to basic healthcare services, the report adds. 
 
 
