NAGPUR: The   (CBSE) continued to put more of its previous initiatives on the chopping block on Thursday, as it decided to axe 41   and vocational subjects from  

 The change comes into effect from 2017-18 academic session with the board citing ‘low enrolment’ as the reason for taking the decision. However, students currently studying in std XI, who opted for these particular subjects, will be allowed to continue and appear for them in the 2018 summer board exam.
 
 There are seven academic electives and 34 vocational subjects included in the axed list. One of the academic electives, Creative Writing and Translation Studies ( ), had in fact gained popularity at a city school with all students in std XI and XII taking it.
 
 While CBSE claimed it was poor response that led to the decision, some schools told TOI that it was just part of the reason. A school principal said, “CBSE is equally, if not more, to blame for the failure of vocational subjects in getting students’ attention. There have been numerous cases of schools applying to board seeking permission to start the vocational course but no response ever came.”
 
 Another principal agreed saying that there was ‘deafening silence’ from the central board. “We paid Rs3,000 per subject as the fee but did not get any response. They (CBSE) should at least refuse us but not keep us in limbo for over a year,” the principal said.
 
 Even for schools, which did get a response from the board, things were not always rosy. A school teacher said, “The elective we applied for got the green signal but there was no proper literature available. We scanned available content on the Internet, reference books and pretty much made our own ‘textbook’.”
 
 CBSE also sent a separate letter for std X, detailing the remodelled assessment scheme for schools offering vocational subject as compulsory sixth subject under the National Skill Qualification Framework (NSQF).
 
 For vocational subjects, practical exams will carry 50 marks and will be conducted by schools themselves.
 
 For theory exam, students have to score minimum 33% marks in each subject they appear. If any std X student fails in any one of the three elective subjects (i.e. science, maths and social science), then it will be replaced by the vocational subject (offered as a 6th additional subject) and result of std X board exam will be computed accordingly.
 
