MARGAO: Villagers of Navelim and Telaulim took to the streets on Tuesday   of the   through the villages. They have warned of intensifying their agitation if the   to heed to their protest. 

 The villagers had, on Monday, stopped landfilling work near Saipem lake and demanded the intervention of   Luizinho Faleiro. A delegation of villagers which met chief minister   late Monday evening was assured that the issue would be resolved at a meeting with the PWD and the villagers’ representatives on March 30. 
 
 Holding placards that read “Save Saipem lake” and “No highway through villages”, the villagers pointed out that the area in question was ecologically fragile, and that the proposed bypass road would lead to the destruction of the lake. 
 
 “We are fighting not only for our houses and structures but also for the protection of our land and conservation of the ecology for posterity,” one of the protestors told reporters, adding that the owners of a few houses were not even compensated for the land acquisition despite them being tenants.
 
 The protesters questioned the propriety of authorities in constructing a 60m wide road for the bypass when a much lesser width would have served the purpose. Stressing that they would not allow construction of the bypass through the village by destroying Saipem lake and the fertile paddy fields, villagers suggested that the government first complete the construction of the Eastern bypass. 
 
 “The new government should do things that benefit the locals instead of serving the interests of only the builders lobby,” a protester said.
 
 “If at all they want to construct the bypass road passing through our village, it should be built on stilts,” the protestors demanded.
 
 Villagers also decried the absence of the Navelim MLA at the protest site despite being invited to lend his support to the agitation.
 
 Stressing that they would not allow construction of the Western bypass through the village, citizens of Navelim suggested that the government first complete the construction of the Eastern bypass
 
 
