During a freewheeling chat, this man of few but precise words shares deatails of his journey so far and how does it feel to ride the high tide of success that his Bollywood music albums are currently privy to. Excerpts…

 
 
 
 I passed out of college in 2009, and have been here in the metropolitan since 7 years. Life in a metro has been a struggle, but it’s all a part of evolution. There is a lesson in each instance and every day, you meet new kinds of people, meet different challenges and sometimes gain small victories too. Observation helps you grow here, which what reflected in my work I guess. Bollywood has been kind to me, people have accepted and appreciated my work. You need someone to bet on you, which Anand Sir did and therefore we are here. I started working as print visualizer when I came to Mumbai, but I wrote my first song in the first six months of being here. When I started, many of my songs didn’t work. But you can never pin it down to one reason solely.
 
 
 It is practically impossible to have similar alignment of thoughts, everyone has a different way of treating the words. You get producers of all types, you have to keep a balance between protecting your talent and giving inputs arbitrarily. Instead of that struggle bogging me down, I worked hard to make a mark and finally own my baby.
 
 
 
 Oh yes! The band days in Bhopal were really rocking. I wrote my first song for a boys band called Inferno and it was part of their first album. In those days I used to imagine performing in the middle of the lake and the audience showering confetti and love on me while I performed on my songs. So yes, somewhere this dream was being nurtured and the confidence was boosted. The city has evolved so much now, that people are actually performing in the middle of Bada Talab! Hope I get to realise this dream sometime soon now that it’s possible.
 
 
 
 
 I would be great it Sia sings my song, she is an amazing singer and would love to hear her sing desi songs. When I was growing up Bollywood had legends, but now they are not around anymore. Among them,   sahab was my idol and I envied   da’s talent. He not just inspired me as a singer or writer, but he also established a sense of retaining originality and fearlessness. He had no fear with experiments. He always had fun with his life and talent and that’s way to be in this industry.
 
 
 
 
 Bhopal is so artistically rich, I can never let go of it. Main humesha chahta hoon wahan kuch baaki rahe. It accepts the bug in your head to become an artist. It gives you creative freedom, it gives you an assurance. Sometime soon, I will try to incorporate our quirky Bhopali batole in my work!
 
 
 
 
