PATNA: Railways is expediting work on two bridges near   and   under Danapur division of   (ECR) to cope with huge traffic in the division. While   work would be completed in 2018 at a cost of Rs27 crore, the one near Mokama is likely to be ready in five years with an estimated cost of Rs1491.47 crore. PM   had laid the foundation stone of the bridge near Mokama last year through a remote system. 

 IRCON, a railways’ wing, has been assigned to build the new rail bridge parallel to the existing one at Mokama. It will be about 1.9km-long . However, railways will lay new lines at a stretch of about 14km near Mokama rail bridge to provide connectivity to both UP and Down lines, said a Railway Board official.
 
 According to Danapur DRM R K Jha, a parallel rail bridge at Mokama is badly needed for people of   and Barauni areas. The old bridge (Rajendra Pul) had been built on May 1, 1959, but there is no provision for converting it into double lines, he said.
 
 According to sources, traffic on Rajendra Pul is so huge that railways was forced to stop rail traffic on the bridge from safety point of view and carried out repair work for months in the past. A parallel bridge would prove a lifeline for local people and railways too, sources said. 
 
 Similarly, railways has been working on a new bridge parallel to the existing one at Kiul at an estimated cost of Rs27 crore and the yard remodelling work at Kiul to cost Rs86 crore. The new Kiul bridge will be about 600 metres long and the new platforms at Kiul will have the length to accommodate mail and express trains with the load combination of 24 bogies, sources said .
 
 Railways is constructing passenger reservation system, waiting hall, booking counters and other amenities for passengers at the new Kiul station building. Railways will make it operational after completion of yard remodelling work by 2018, sources said . 
 
 According to sources, Kiul has become a nerve centre for changing several trains from other zonal railways. Railways is developing its infrastructure also to cope with heavy traffic in emergency situation, sources said adding that out of 18 super structure girders, five of them have been loaded on the bridge and about 60% of the yard remodelling is completed now .
 
 
