BENGALURU: It all started on September 12, 1948, with 120 buses, each of which had a   accommodating the engine and tugging along a passenger coa-ch. The  , as it was called then, has now grown into the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation ( ). 

  The momentous journey is marked by 194 awards as its milestones, with the icing on the cake being its entry into the   earlier this year. The only road transport undertaking in the country to have achieved the distinction, KSRTC has won the laurel in view of the 107 international and national awards and recognitions it earned for unique initiatives and good practices from 2008 to 2016. 
 
  The corporation today has 8,348 buses in its fleet, the second highest in the country and ferries 26.18 lakh people per day. It has a 34,019 member-strong manpower, of which 32,000 are drivers, driver-cum-conductors, conductors and mechanics. Senior officials and bus crew members admit the rapid growth story has been possible because the company hasn't measured its growth with high revenue, but inclusive growth of its crew and passengers. 
 
  Chikke Gowda, a driver-instructor with KSRTC, started his career as a driver in 1986 with a basic salary of Rs 235 that has now touched Rs 34,160. "I drove on the Bengaluru to Madurai route (464km one way) for 16 years. I used to drive to Madurai and return, covering 928km and do two trips a week. Whenever I returned to Bengaluru, I would visit my family and could spend time with my kids only twice a week. I started suffering from diabetes and used to feel unwell while driving at night. When I told the management, they found a solution," he says. 
 
  Chikke Gowda was not only accommodated on day shifts but also promoted as a driver-instructor. His piece of advice to drivers: "Keep two things in mind. All passengers trust you to drive them safely to their destinations. Secondly, your family too is waiting for you." 
 
  Says Ganesh Rao, 52, who joine d as an inter-state bus driver in 1987: "We used to drive buses that weren't comfortable, neither were they well-equipped. The new buses have many safety features which make us feel relaxed, ensure our trips adhere to the timeline, and provide passengers utmost comfort and safety. The corporation recognizes our efforts periodically by giving away awards to those who have had no accidents or less number of accidents," says Rao. 
 
 
