KOHIMA: After Sunday's respite, Nagaland on Monday slipped back into   imposed by the anti-women's reservation lobby in civic body polls. Though there was no report of any trouble, curfew remained in force in vulnerable locations of the state capital. 

 Barring government educational institutes and hospitals, all other government offices remained closed. Private business establishments were open. The partial bandh called by   is now set for yet another week-long spell.
 
 As Nagaland chief minister TR Zeliang called for a consultative meet with all tribal Hohos on Wednesday to find a way out of the present crisis,   (NPCC) has demanded immediate imposition of President's Rule in the state besides fresh assembly elections. NPCC president K Therie said, "President's Rule is the only option for the state. Let us elect better and wise people." 
 
 "The government has lost support of the people," said Therie, a former minister. He added that Congress is ready for the polls and will field 60 candidates for assembly elections in the state.
 
 Apart from deciding to submit a memorandum to the Prime Minister to exempt Nagaland from Part IX of the Constitution through an ordinance, the state cabinet also decided to 'request the PM to impress upon the Government of   not to construct any fence along the India-Myanmar international border to uphold the age-old landholding system of the Naga people living on both sides of the border.' 
 
 Meanwhile the Naga Hoho has expressed anguish over the chain of unfortunate events in the state. "These were the consequences of the Nagaland government's unwillingness to listen to the voice of people," the Naga Hoho stated on Monday. 
 
 The Naga Hoho reminded how it has been consistent in its opposition to the election of ULBs vis-a-vis the municipal act. Various consultations were held and communiques given to the extent of serving an ultimatum to the government, which, however, went unheeded, it said. 
 
 It condemned the acts of the government and its machinery that led to killings and injuries. 
 
 
