LUCKNOW: A potent tool for vector control can be bred at home.  ,  , can then be released in the ditch, pond or ‘nullah’ in your neighbourhood where  .   would finish off larvae over 40 times its body weight in a day, as was explained at an awareness seminar at the Regional Science City on Thursday. 

 There were students from several schools who were told about simple ways to breed Gambusia at home. A bigger   can eat mosquito larvae weighing 170 times more than its own weight. Since it’s not an ornamental fish, it’s rarely found in the market, they were told. 
 
 Speakers at the seminar said it was easy to breed the fish in tubs and drums at home. “Put some ‘maurang’ in the base and release four to six pairs of Gambusia. You need not worry if all are males or females,” said aquarist Indramani Raja. Gambusia has both male and female traits. If both the fish are male, one will undergo a genetic change to manifest the traits of the opposite sex more strongly. In the birth cycle of 28-35 days, Gambusia can produce 80 to 120 young ones.
 
 Even an exclsuive fish food is not a necessity as it can feed on bread crumbs and crushed biscuits. It’s called ‘gutter guppy’ for its ability to survive anywhere, be it a roadside ditch, pool of stagnant water, running water, wells, agricultural fields, drains and nullahs, ponds and other water bodies. It has a high survival rate as it can bear up to 38 degrees Celsius.
 
 National Vector-Borne Diseases Control Programme of the Union ministry of health encourages use of the larva-fish or the mosquito-fish (as the species is popularly called) to control mosquito population and even the World Health Organization has advocated its use in countries which continue to be affected by diseases like malaria.
 
 Gambusia is called live-bearer for giving births to a large number of offsprings who start feeding on larvae as soon as they are born. Its mouth is designed to eat larvae germinating on the surface of water. Being a surface-feeder, it can eat both common house   and the malaria-causing mosquitoes. 
 
 Breeding Gambusia is an eco-friendly way of killing larvae, unlike using chemicals. While larvae have mutated to survive chemicals, they cannot escape Gambusia.
 
 
