PATNA: Difficult times are ahead for the   between   as the peepa pul, or  , existing beside the   on the Ganga will be disassembled in  , to be put in place afresh only in January next year.
 
  According to Bihar Rajya Pul Nirman Nigam Ltd (BRPNNL) sources, the pontoon bridge will be removed by June 15 keeping in view the advent of monsoon. “Such bridges are not safe when it rains cats and dogs... Pontoons are hollow cylinders of steel that get displaced by high-velocity wind,” a BRPNNL official told TOI on Thursday, adding the pontoon bridge would be re-assembled on the river after the rains in January next year.
  
  The pontoon bridge was formally opened for commuters by deputy chief minister Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, who holds the portfolio of road construction department, on February 18 this year. The inaugural function was held at Chaukia village in Raghopur assembly constituency on the northern end of Gandhi Setu.
  
  The 1.98km bridge was meant to ease the traffic load on the Gandhi Setu, especially because the superstructure of the dilapidated concrete bridge had to be pulled down for repairs. The pontoon bridge was constructed by Patna-based Shrishti Developers Private Limited at a cost of Rs 55.16 crore.
  
  The dismantling work of Gandhi Setu’s superstructure will also be stopped during the monsoon as it will not be convenient to execute such an operation during the rains.
  
  The sources said the government had initially planned to construct one pontoon bridge each on the two sides parallel to the Gandhi Setu, allowing one-way traffic on them from Hajipur to Patna and Patna to Hajipur. A sum of Rs 89.47 crore had been sanctioned for the purpose. However, only one pontoon could be completed this year.
  
  At the time of inauguration of this pontoon bridge, BRPNNL officials had said the other pontoon bridge would come up by March end. The deadline was later extended to April. On Thursday, a BRPNNL official said it would be made functional after the monsoon in January next year.
  
  The official denied delay in the construction of the second pontoon bridge. He explained the construction company was given the deadline of June 28, 2017. “It was estimated that 123 sets of pontoons (each set consisting of two pontoons) would be required for the 1.5km distance. In the meantime, the width of the river increased and 157 sets were required for one bridge,” he said, adding the construction firm had to use 34 sets of the second bridge to ready at least one bridge for inauguration in February.
  
  As of now, 247 pontoon sets are ready. “We will certainly put in place both the pontoon bridges in January next year,” the official said.
