Ludhiana: From the past 17 years, this group (Pandey Ram Leela Samiti) is performing Ram Leela during Navratras in Rajguru Nagar, and most of the actors belong to one family. The artistes, originally hailing from Uttar Pradesh, have settled down here in this city, and are working in various professions. They come together just for this cause during these nine days, and do not take any money for their performances. They, however, believe these days people were less interested in watching Ram Leela, as very few people were coming to see the performances, and those who were coming, were seen busy fiddling with their mobile phones.

 Anuj Pandey (25) — who performs the role of Lord Ram in Ram Leela — is a government school teacher in Allahabad. He comes here especially during these days, because he is attached to this group since his childhood days. Anuj said: “Since my father has remained active in organizing Ram Leela for the past so many years, I have remained attached with the activities. From the past seven years, I have been performing the role of Lord Ram.”
 
 Anuj shared that though he was performing the role of Lord Ram, he was actually quite opposite to Lord Ram’s character, since he is talkative and chirpy, but Lord Ram was quiet and calm. “I also want to play the role of Bharat in Ram Leela, which is difficult to perform,” he said. Unlike other groups here, girls perform the role of female characters. Arts stream student Chandani is portraying Sita in Ram Leela. Chandani said though her exams were going on, she was still taking part in Ram Leela, because she likes to perform on stage. She said the role of Sita was a challenging one, as she was a great woman who left everything just to perform her duty as a wife. Though she hardly got any happiness in her life, even then she did not step back,” she said.
 
 Medical representative Parvinder Singh (28) is performing the role of Ravan. “I love this role, because it is the only character in Ram Leela which has all shades. Ravan was a wise person, but he lost his life due to his pride.” A graduate in B.Sc (IT), he is fond of cricket and spares time for Ram Leela, because he likes to act and is fond of strong roles only.
 
 Praveen Kumar (25), who is performing the role of Laxman, is a meter reader in the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL), and the cousin of Anuj Pandey. He said these days, it was rare to find brothers who loved each other from the core of their hearts, but the love of Ram and Laxman was eternal and selfless. He said through Ram Leela, they wanted to spread the message of family values and importance of relations.
 
 Kanav Kalia (13) and Krish Gupta (12) too like to perform in Ram Leela. Kanav becomes Angad, and Krish has been performing the role of child Hanuman in Ram Leela regularly for the past few years. Despite the fact that Kanav was busy in exams, he performed his role, while Krish visited the birthplace of Lord Hanuman along with grandfather, just to increase his knowledge. 
 
 
