AHMEDABAD: It is like an attempt to decipher a whisper in a room full of loud conversation. In a similar manner, two Laser   ( ) in the US made history in September 2015 when they detected very weak  , thereby proving Einstein’s model of universe right.

 By 2024, India will also have a fully-functional LIGO with infrastructure in place. Somak Raychaudhury, director of Inter-University Centre for Astronomy and Astrophysics (IUCAA) and chairman of the scientific management board of LIGO-India, talked about the ambitious project at the 31st Gujarat   organized at PDPU.
 
 Talking to TOI, Raychaudhury said that two sites – one near Udaipur in Rajasthan and another near Hingoli in Maharashtra – are finalists in the list of places under consideration for the observatory. 
 
 “A number of factors have to be taken into consideration before finally deciding the site,” Raychaudhurysaid. 
 
 “There should be no major town nearby or railway tracks that might affect the experiment. We started off with 22 sites across the country, including one in Gujarat, but eventually these two were found most suitable,” he said.
 
 The project was cleared by the PM within a week of the announcement in February last year of gravitational waves being detected. The project has a budget of Rs 1,260 crore that is to be spent over eight years. While the infrastructure will be created by India, the US will provide the design and detectors for the experiment.“It will be a big opportunity for the Indian scientific community – especially students,” Raychaudhury said.
 
 “It will use applications from almost every discipline – for creating a vacuum, setting up lasers, ensuring civil work, opto-electronics and so on. We have already started visiting campuses to create awareness. At the moment, there are around 50 people engaged but we will require more than 1,000,” he said. 
 
 He further said that at the moment, the career trajectory of a number of engineers, even those from IITs, goes towards management and this is not a good thing. “I want the same people for our ambitious projects,” Raychaudhary said.
 
 “The challenges here are real – be it civil or mechanical. In countries like the US and Germany, the students go to research first, thus their natural trajectory is towards innovation. I believe that with India partnering in a number of mega projects, the students will get the opportunity to do cutting-edge science right here,” he said.
 
 
 
 
 Ahmedabad: Somak Raychaudhury, director of Inter-University Centre for Astronomy and Astrophysics (IUCAA) also said that mathematicians such as VV Narlikar and PC Vaidya – who was associated with Gujarat University – and physicists such as AK Raychaudhuri had started working on Einstein’s theories. He further said that Indian scientists have done crucial work that provided the base for experiments such as LIGO. “Out of around 1,000 authors of LIGO papers, 37 are from India. India is third largest partner of the project outside the US — after Germany and the UK,” Raychaudhari said.He added that in a recently published list of 20 most important papers in the field of general relativity, three are from India – authored by Vaidya, Raychaudhuri along with N. R. Sen and B. Datt. “Later, SV Dhurandhar at IUCAA was among the first researchers who mathematically showed how to separate signals from other noise. His paper, along with Sathyaprakash, is among the top references in LIGO discovery paper. Similarly, in Bengaluru, Visvesvara and Iyer were among the pioneers in modelling the gravitational wave signals,” he said. tnn 
 
 
