COIMBATORE: The chance to win a   in a lucky draw in a super market may be a far-fetched dream to many of us. But you may just get lucky and easily win one from the Coimbatore Corporation by doing one of the most simplest things - segregating your waste as dry and wet. 

 The corporation plans to give away one gram gold coins to sanitary workers who collect the maximum amount of dry waste from a ward in a week and also to the residents who segregate their waste and hand it over to the corporation.
 
 In ward number 100, the   ambassadors and the corporation officials have already selected a sanitary worker, Palaniammal who has done a tremendous job of collecting and segregating waste for the last five years. The sanitary supervisors and inspectors visited all the streets where she collects waste and documented the data for the past few months. 
 
 She has been selected as the first worker to be awarded a one-gram gold coin. Senior corporation officials said that she will be awarded in a grand ceremony to be held to inaugurate this scheme which is already a hit in corporations such as Trichy and Hyderabad. 
 
 The corporation has directed the sanitary workers to collect dry waste on Wednesdays and wet waste on the other days. Every Wednesday, the worker who collects the maximum amount of dry waste will be awarded.
 
 In the same way, residents who hand over dry wastes separately to the workers on Wednesdays will be awarded. The residents need to click a photograph of themselves handing over dry waste to the sanitary worker and send it to the corporation WhatsApp number that will be announced shortly.
 
 Corporation commissioner   confirmed this scheme and said that they will soon implement it. “We have already received an approval from the state government. We will launch it soon,” he said. He also added that Hotel Anandhas have agreed to sponsor the gold coins for the first six months after the programme is launched. “We are looking for more sponsors to extend it further,” he said. 
 
