KOCHI: Two passages of play from two   matches in this year's   are key to understanding  .

 First, at the beginning of his three-figure knock against Pune, he kept square-driving the seamers, who were mostly shaping the ball away. No violence, just pure timing and balance to fetch six fours from his first 14 balls.
 
 Second was against Gujarat Lions, when he and   made a mockery of a 196-run target. The asking rate required Sanju to be adventurous and he did not hold back, launching pacers and spinners alike to all parts of Kotla, finishing with seven sixes.
 
 These two distinctly different innings in IPL showed that Sanju could bring a classical style to the slam-bang format and also push the contours of manic hitting when needed. Here was a batsman with multiple gears who could shift modes effortlessly. That seems to be one of the reasons why   has taken him under his wing wherever he has gone, be it India 'A',   or Delhi Daredevils Delhi missed out on a playoff spot but Sanju would consider the season as a redeeming one. With 386 runs, including a century and two half-centuries, he was the leading scorer for the franchise. It has put the Kerala player's career back on track after troubles on an off the pitch during last domestic sea son. "I tried to express more freely, maybe that's the reason for the performances. Also the preparations before the tournament were satisfactory and it reflected on the field," Sanju told TOI.
 
 
  
 The backbone of the Delhi team is a bunch of Indian youngsters and they are backed to the hilt by mentor Dravid and captain  . "In our team, the youngsters have a lot of voice. We can share ideas and our inputs are valued greatly by the team management. Also, it's good to play alongside people who are around your own age. If someone is hitting well, whether it's me, Karun, Pant or Iyer, that guy takes up the responsibility of scoring most of the runs," Sanju said.
 
 Sanju and 19-year-old Pant have been earmarked as future Indian wicketkeepers and the two have shared a lot of time together over the last two seasons. However, Sanju, who had played one T20 International for India in 2015, says they don't indulge in talk about national selection.
 
 "We don't discuss about selection to Indian team and things like that. We know our roles pretty well. Mine has been to play as a fielder and his as the 'keeper. I really enjoyed fielding in the outfield too," said Sanju whose acrobatic effort in the deep to prevent a six against Kolkata won him admirers.
 
 After a period in which he struggled with poor form and faced issues of indiscipline, Sanju has come back strongly.
 
