 Bareilly: Noor Mohammad, 38, a meat seller, awaits his turn in a queue at the district collectorate here to “renew” his “licence”. When his turn comes, he is taken aback to learn that the licence his father was issued 30 years ago cannot be renewed and that he will have to apply afresh. His father’s licence was issued for just one year.   Noor Mohammad’s case is a pointer to the mess the unorganized meat sector is in the state. For years, norms have been flouted and shops that double up as slaughter houses have mushroomed across the state. However, the administration had made no attempt to check them till the BJP government decided to close illegal meat shops and slaughter houses.    Like Mohammad, around 200 other meat sellers were at the collectorate on Thursday to get a licence to run their hitherto illegal shops.    Showing a three-decade-old certificate to TOI, Mohammad, 38, said, “This is the only paper what we were issued by an administrative officer way back in 1985. The licence was given to my father to run a meat shop for one year but he didn’t bother to renew that. Besides, no government official ever came to our shop to check our licence. I was only eight years old at the time my father was issued a licence and I have been helping my father since my childhood.”    A class V dropout, Mohammad said, “This (butcher shop) is my only means of livelihood. I do not have any other skill other than cutting meat and selling it. Now, we people in this trade have understood that if we want to run our business, we will have to follow the guidelines completely. I have bought a set of stainless steel knives and borrowed money to buy a refrigerator to keep the meat. Besides, I am going to renovate my shop by installing tiles and other things to keep the space completely hygienic. ‘Agar dhandha karna hai to ye sab to karna hi padega’ (To run my business, we have to complete all the formalities first),” he said.    Food safety and drug administration (FSDA) designated officer Mamta Kumari told TOI, “On Thursday, around 200 meat sellers approached us to take a challan to submit a fee at the treasury. After submitting the fee, they will have to apply online for a licence following which our officials will visit their shops for inspection and issue a ‘no objection’ certificate to run the business.”