Madurai:   are gaining favour among parents and children in Madurai. These camps, unlike the usual summer camps which teach children swimming, self-defence skills or dance, expose young minds to various themes like nature, agriculture and birdwatching, among others. 

 At a recently-concluded summer camp, children were exposed to butterfly migration, birdwatching and flora and fauna specific to the region. Organisers of the camps say that not only children but also their parents showed keen interest in the camp. At least 60 children took part in the camp, which was organised for the staff of Aravind Eye Hospital. 
 
 “The children happened to see a large number of migratory butterfly and enjoyed documenting it with the help of resource person C Kumaresan, an avid bird enthusiast. The two-km-long trek to Karanthamalai turned out to be a life-time experience,” said B Udayakumar, one of the organisers. 
 
 Children were also exposed to a variety of traditional games, history and science experiments at the camp. A Arya, a class eight student who took part in the camp, said, “I came to know that butterflies too migrate, like birds. Being a person interested in photography, the trek helped me click photos of butterflies and birds. I learnt a lot about nature. I am not sure how much I would have grasped had the same been taught in a classroom.”
 
 In another camp organised for rural children on the foothills of Samanar hills in Keelakuyilkudi, a large number of children from the city also took part. Yogesh Karthick of Kalari, a centre of arts, education and innovation, said that the main focus was to teach the children to take a scientific approach towards life. 
 
 “Children enjoyed learning about the science behind magic tricks, trees and their uses and making seed balls. A special session on birds and their habitats was also conducted,” he said. 
 
 A four-day camp organised at various villages on the Madurai-Dindigul border attracted over 300 children. The camp mainly focussed on the natural way of life and taught traditional games, which were unheard by children of this generation. Karthick Bhrathi of Madurai Seed, which focusses on education of underprivileged children, said, “The participants studied the topography of villages, like Seegupatti, Kadavur, Vembarali, Pethampatti and Senthamangalam, and leant about the life in a village. They mapped waterbodies and learnt about tanks and streams. The children were also exposed to kitchen gardening,” he said.
 
 
