If the earlier controversies around the birth place of India's first freedom fighter   were not enough, here is another instance of disagreement. Pandey's family in Ballia complains that whatever development work is being done in his name is skewed to Nagwa village - known as his birthplace - while his actual family is deprived of all facilities just because it is living a few kilometres away from Nagwa. The family lives in an old, dilapidated house in Bandhu Chak village, about 8km away from  . 

 A water tank was built around 15 years ago in the freedom fighter's memory in Nagwa by a contemporary politician. 
 
 However, he apparently missed the fact that his immediate family lived 2km away from Nagwa in Bandhu Chak and hence wouldn't receive the supply. His family complains that because Mangal Pandey is associated with Nagwa in various books, most funds and development works are purposely directed to Nagwa.
 
 Though the tank's supply reaches about 10,000 people daily, Pandey's immediate family is deprived of it and has to depend on handpumps for water. 
 
 Pandey's fourth generation daughter-in-law, Tettri Devi who is too old and weak, says, "The supply pipeline is limited to Nagwa village and ends barely 100 metre away from our house. Politicians often refer to Ballia as the hometown of Mangal Pandey and use his name in speeches to gain public support, but fail to acknowledge his family's grievances. We are living in extreme poverty with no government help ever. Whatever development happens, is skewed to Nagwa just because of its name."
 
 This confusion emerged many decades ago when Ganga engulfed the original Nagwa during floods and villagers had to rehabilitate in surrounding areas. Santosh K Pandey, one of Pandey's great grandsons, says, "At that time, Nagwa was fully immersed in river and villagers had to settle in different parts in about 3km periphery. These settlements gradually took shape of villages and today, four villages have formed from one Nagwa village."
 
 These villages are Nagwa, Mohan Chhapra, Saurban Dada Ka Chapra and Bandhu Chak. Incidentally, during resettlement, Mangal Pandey's immediate family shifted its base to Bandhu Chak, which led to all confusion. 
 
 Rajiv Prakash Pandey, a local, says, "A government inter college, a Shaheed Smarak, a library and very recently a girls' inter college has been opened in Nagwa but our village is still struggling for basic facilities like roads, water and primary school. Just because we settled a few kilometres away doesn't mean we are not entitled to facilities being provided in Mangal Pandey's name." The approach road to Nagwa has also been strengthened and named as Amar Shaheed Mangal Pandey Road recently.
 
 Ballia district magistrate, B Govind Raju says, "If there is some bias because of the village's name, we will look into the matter and make arrangements to provide equal facilities to Mangal Pandey's family in Bandhu Chak after the elections." 
 
