GURUGRAM: Two Delhi-based women who had come to the city to open bank accounts with fake identity and address proofs were arrested by Gurgaon police on Wednesday. The arrests exposed a bigger racket, in which a gang enticed people on   sites with lucrative gifts and duped them.

 The manager of Central Bank of India’s Manesar branch smelled a rat when he found that the two women furnished ID proofs having an address that was used to open a bogus account earlier and had brought the bank under the scanner of Shimla police for a fraudulent transaction of Rs 12.5 lakh.
 
 Vaishali Morya (23) of Vasant Kunj and Richa Arora (20) of Malviya Nagar were produced in court, which sent them to judicial custody. 
 
 The two claimed that one Sanjeev Kumar, who they had met at an event management company in July last year, had offered them Rs 2,000 for each fake account opened. On Wednesday, he gave them two forms for opening accounts at the Manesar branch.
 
 They posed as Neetu Sharma and Pooja Sharma and submitted ID proofs having the same address — House No. 231, IMT Sector 1, Manesar.
 
 Interestingly, in December, the Shimla police had come to this address looking for Ashok Gupta, who had opened an account with the branch using this address. But, the house belongs to Manoj Tyagi, general secretary of IMT Industrial Association. 
 
 The Shimla police had also approached bank manager Shiv Sahay Meena, seeking details of Ashok, who, posing as an NRI, had befriended a primary school teacher from Shimla on  . He told her that he had sent her a gift, but for customs clearance, she needed to deposit Rs 12.4 lakh in his account. The woman transferred the money to Ashok’s account at the Manesar branch in December. The money was withdrawn soon.
 
 While Vaishali and Richa claimed that they did not know Ashok, Meena said the duo had accompanied Ashok when he had come to open his account in July last year.
 
 “The women are members of a big racket. Shimla police are also probing the matter,” said inspector Jagdish Prasad, SHO, Manesar.
 
