NEW DELHI: It's easy to miss a wicketkeeper when he has a good day behind the stumps. That a Test wicketkeeper is rated by the impact of his batting is a given and Wriddhiman Saha has found it tougher than most to assert his utility in whites on pitches that have tested the best of the batsmen, let alone the skills behind the stumps.

 Be it   swearing by the efficiency behind the stumps or the selection panel making it obvious that he is and will be the No. 1 choice - the talk about Saha, the wicketkeeper, has overshadowed his prowess with the bat.
 
 The century against Australia in the last Test may have forced some sceptics to have a rethink but the ingenuity of Saha isn't restricted to what he does with the bat independently. “If you have to play for India as a wicketkeeper then you have to be as good as Saha,” a message, which former selector Saba Karim feels is what the team management has sent out clearly.
 
 Even during the days when he was on the bench, Saha would insist his primary job was to keep and keep well. Adam Glichrist's emergence did create a fallacy: score runs by heaps and wicketkeeping can come in later. But Gilchrist was a fine wicketkeeper too. “You can't survive in Test cricket without being a good wicketkeeper. Gilchrist, Kumar Sangakkara, MS Dhoni and Mark Boucher all have fantastic record behind the stumps. They are superlative wicketkeepers,” former India wicketkeeper   told TOI.
 
 “Good wicketkeepers create dismissals. They react very sharply. All of the above names have done it and Saha is not different,” More added, reflecting on the dismissals pulled off during the ongoing series. The presence of mind to snaffle one at short-leg off Mathew Wade in the Bangalore Test is a case in point.
 
 For the number-crunching critiques, MS Dhoni has six centuries in the 90 Tests he has played at an average of 38.02. Wriddhiman has piled up three in the last 12 Tests he has played. The average isn't far off Dhoni at 32.73. Yet, the sword dangles over his head each time he takes guard. “Keeping comes naturally to him. He is more focused on his keeping but he is equally good with the bat but it was comparatively a second skill for him. Maybe, he isn't as flamboyant, that's why it gets lost,” Deep Dasgupta, who has seen Saha grow as a player, said.
 
 It's not easy to ruffle Saha. Contrary to the popular notion, he gains in confidence from his wicketkeeping. “You have a bad day behind the stumps, it gets very difficult to pick yourself up with the bat,” More reckoned. “What he has done this season, he has set a benchmark for the wicketkeepers to follow. A good wicketkeeper gives confidence to spinners on turning pitches,” he added.
 
 He isn't the quintessential chirpy, in-your face, assertive wicketkeeper. India's inefficiency in using the DRS pans the attention on Saha. But then, India is still young using the technology. Karim, a member of the previous selection committee, picked out Saha's positives. “He doesn't talk much but whenever he does, he speaks sense. His batting has been above the rest of wicketkeepers in the country. He will play the crucial knocks and that's why we stuck with him,” Karim told TOI.
 
 Saha is 32 now and has been through the agony of being second to Dhoni during the cream of his career, something which More and Dasgupta feel has benefitted him. If Dhoni has left behind big shoes to fill, Saha is resetting the size of the gloves to be donned by his successors.
 
