HYDERABAD: With the Telangana government failing to cap arbitrary rise in school fee, hundreds of students and their parents from across the city took to the streets protesting against the move on Monday. 

 Over 200 people gathered in front of the office of the commissioner and director of the school education department at Saifabad against the Telangana Rashtra Samithi government’s failure to regulate school fee in private and corporate schools. 
 
 Dressed in their school uniform, students squatted on the road, blocking the entrance to the office for over two hours. As they raised slogans, their demands resonated in the area and curious onlookers rushed to the site with many even lending their support to the cause. 
 
 “The Telangana government has been making tall promises to regulate school fee for a long time. However, nothing has been done so far. It is high time that the government fulfils its promise of providing affordable education in the state,” said a parent, during the two-hour protest organised by the   ( ). 
 
 R Krishnaiah, president, NBCW, explained how private schools were looting the poor in the guise of school fee and donations. “School education has become a burden for parents. There are instances where parents had to sell their assets to secure quality education for their children,” he added
 
 The NBCW also expressed concerns over closure of 4,690 government schools, which might deny thousands of students from the marginalised sections their right to education. 
 
 At another protest organised by Telangana Parents’ Association (TPA), students, members of youth and women’s organisations along with angry parents raised similar demands in front of the Hyderabad district collectorate at Nampally. 
 
 “The Telangana government-appointed Tirupathi Rao committee held several rounds of consultations with all stakeholders for drafting a government order to regulate school fee. However, till date, the report has not been submitted,” TPA president   said, adding they were against the delay caused by the government in dealing with school fee hike in the state. 
 
 Displaying placards and raising slogans, the protesters said they would not stop until the government accepts their demands.
 
 The TPA also urged the government to halt the fee hike in schools until recommendations of the Tirupathi Rao committee report were implemented. The angry protesters also flayed the state government for poor evaluation in schools. 
 
 Parents and students are up in arms against the government over the school fee hike for the past two years. While notices were issued to a few schools over violations and charging exorbitant amount, parents rue that they were yet to get a permanent solution to the issue. 
 
 Taking the stir to the next level, Hyderabad School Parents’ Association has planned to hold a massive protest at Necklace Road has also planned by members of on July 15 to draw the government’s attention to the problems plaguing the education sector.
 
