CHENNAI: “I have juvenile macular degeneration,” says Sundeep Rao, India’s only   stand-up comic, when he gets up on stage. “I was diagnosed when I was eight years old. And to be honest, my state of eye and state of mind have remained the same since then.”

 If there are only a few nervous twitters in response to his one-liner, Sundeep tries again. “People think I am a nice guy. Just because I can’t see,” he jokes, and hopes that the audience realises he is making light of his own condition. “Sometimes people don’t get that I am blind, so I hint enough at it so they know they can laugh with me. In the beginning, joking about my blindness was like walking on eggshells, but now my audience is a lot more comfortable with it. And they laugh with me,” says Sundeep. “But these jokes are only part of the routine. I move to other themes as well.”
 
 Sundeep is in the city on Saturday as part of ‘Chennai Laughs’, a   event to raise Rs 3 crore for the  , which is in need of more beds, lab facilities and administrative facilities to cater to the increased demand for patient care.
 
 “It was difficult in the beginning because I would be on stage and have no idea if people were smiling or if my jokes were falling flat. I would only know if people would laugh loudly. But I worked all of that into my routine,” says the Bengaluru-based comedian who makes do with his peripheral vision as he has lost his central vision. He will be performing at the fund-raiser with other stand-up comics such as Anuvab Pal, Azeem Banatwalla, Ajit Saldhana, Anu (Lolakutty) Menon and Aditi Mittal.
 
 “I don’t get to volunteer much because of a lack of time, but if my comedy can help raise funds to help children with cancer then I am all for it,” says Sundeep, who adds that it is not his first trip to the city. “I used to spend long days at the eye hospital Sankara Nethralaya, as a child, when I was diagnosed with my eye condition,” says Sundeep. “But this is the first time I am performing here. So I cannot wait.”
 
