Mumbai: When it comes to  , it appears companies in India are competing to offer the best leave possible. Over the last few years, companies have upped the game on   — with some offering a week, to a few progressive companies moving to a fortnight.   has now set a new benchmark of sorts. It has become the first among manufacturing companies to come up with a path-breaking 30 days of paternity leave for its employees, which can be availed of during the first six months of becoming a father. 

 Vikas Thapa, VP (HR), Cummins Group in India, told TOI, “We want to create a culture of inclusion and promote gender parity. In line with this, we have made our parental leave gender-neutral, focusing on both primary and secondary care givers. The primary care giver can now avail six-month maternity leave, while the secondary care giver can take the newly introduced 30-day paternity leave. We believe much like mothers, fathers too need to bond with the newborns.”
 
 A number of companies are breaking gender stereotypes through a fresh outlook on parental leave. Starting this calendar year, Deutsche Bank de-linked parental leave from gender and offered the same quantum of childcare leave — maternity leave of six months in India — to men as well, if they happen to be primary caregivers.
 
 It is usually assumed that the woman/mother is the primary caregiver since she gives birth to the child. But there is a growing trend of men partaking in childcare responsibilities. A study by   and   reveals that 86% of companies introduced paternity policies at workplace as an aid for young working mothers. Most progressive companies offer 7-15 days paternity leave. Cummins could be setting a new precedent and its offer would most likely be matched at least by new-age companies, if not the brick-and-mortar kinds. PayPal recently doubled its paternity leave from 5 to 10 days. Asian Paints, too, offers paternity leave for 10 days. Microsoft India and GSK Consumer Healthcare are among those that offer a two-week paternity leave.
 
 According to a Mercer global parental leave report, 38% of companies globally provide paid paternity leave above the statutory minimum and several countries mandate a parental leave programme for employees. In Asia-Pacific, 41% of the companies provide paid paternity leave above the statutory minimum to their employees with India being among the top-10 countries that have the highest percentage of companies providing paternity and adoption leaves above the statutory requirement in the world.
 
 
