GHAZIABAD: The   Municipal Corporation plans to develop a   in the memory of those who fought the first war of independence on the banks of the Hindon river. 

 The memorial will be developed in a 32,000 sqm area in   where presently lies a cemetery, proof of the bloody war fought in May 1857. 
 
 A sum of Rs 15 crore will be spent on the memorial which is expected to be complete a year.
 
 “Ghaziabad has a rich history and during India’s first freedom struggle our city played its part which people are not aware of,“ said mayor Ashu Verma. “In Hindon Vihar, there lies a cemetery of British soldiers which finds mention in the Archeological Survey of India (ASI) list but due to neglect, the place is in shambles. So we have decided to develop the area as a war memorial from which future generations could draw inspiration from,” he added.
 
 Initially, the   had planned to develop the memorial in a 12,000sqm area but recently allotted more land to it and now it will come up in 32,000sqm area. “The estimated cost for the project has been pegged at Rs 15 crore and the memorial will have no concrete structure except for plaque informing about the historical importance of the place,” he said. 
 
 “To gather information about the event we are in talks with the historians who could elucidate on the importance of this place,” Verma added.
 
 M Hasan, a veteran journalist has chronicled the event in a form of book titled ‘Wo Tees May’. 
 
 “A fierce battle was fought on 30-31 May in 1857 between British forces and local soldiers. The cemetery belongs to the British general and soldiers who died fighting here,” Hasan said.
 
 The cemetery lies in ruins now and major part has encroached but fortunately, the main structure has been spared. “The ASI has put up a board saying it's a ‘protected monument’ but it’s a pity that authorities did not pay heed to it but now when GMC has taken up the task of developing the area into a war memorial. I hope this will help current generation connect with its past,” he added.
 
 For more than a century and a half this place withstood the vagaries of nature and man alike, but today it has crumbled to the neglect of authorities. But, with GMC’s new-found sense of duty, one just hopes that the place will live to tell the tale of city’s glorious past.
 
 
