

 
 
 Frankly, I never ran for the title, nor have I created it. My fans feel that way about me and I respect that totally. But I don’t want to stick to that image. When I wake up one morning and ask myself, ‘Aaj kya naya kiya’, I want to have a lot of things to speak about.
 
 
 
 I won’t call it a conscious effort but yes, this film pulls me out of my comfort zone and throws me into a dark space that I haven’t ventured into before. It gives me the chance to surprise myself after knowing how effectively I can portray the character. It is not a hero-heroine story but one that explores a mother-son relationship.
 
 
 
 When Ganesh sir called me and said, ‘Ye tera hi role hai aur tu hi karega’, I was excited. After all, he’s a big name in the industry and to get to do something with him was amazing. But I won’t lie to you; the moment he told me the name of the film, I thought he was joking. Nevertheless, I told myself that kahani sun lete hai. The moment the narration was done, I had an affirmative reply for him. People have had their doubts about the title but everyone who has watched the rushes has given us positive feedback.
 
  
 
 
 Of course! In fact, I am dying to play a villain and I think I will be great as one. I can use my innocent-looking face to advantage and play a villain who looks harmless and affable but is actually conniving and scary.
 
 
 
 On the contrary, newcomers give you a fresh perspective. After doing a few films, actors tend to have that know-all attitude but newcomers come without any baggage and are inquisitive. Their habit of questioning the process ends up giving you a better way out. So I am like an eraser around them. If their way is better, I rub mine and go with theirs. With veterans, I am like a sponge. They use their experiences to enact a scene and make it better and I absorb everything when I am around them.
 
 
 
 I look at it as a win-win situation. But, having said that, I feel that cinema has no language; it’s a language in itself. At the end of the day, content is king. People will applaud and take note of stars but their mere presence can’t dominate the power of content. At the same time, Bollywood’s association with Marathi cinema is ensuring that we get the required publicity, which is the need of the hour. There have been so many good films that went unnoticed because of not being promoted properly. Ultimately, the content will speak for itself but to make sure that happens, you have to make yourself noticed first and with the right kind of noise. You also have to take care not to go overboard with publicity because a few films have been killed by it.
 
 
 
 It has humbled me and made me more disciplined I guess. Fatherhood has made me realise the humane side of myself. What happens is, when you are working, you are running and miss out on the small joys of life. Maayra’s birth has taught me to stop and enjoy these small things. And I say disciplined because I make it a point to wake up before her in the morning to watch her open her eyes and come home before she sleeps. It has put a good routine in my life.
 
 
 Deva O Deva from Bhikari:
  
  
 
