PUNE: The civic body has received over 36,000 complaints through its online portal, which became operational in May last year. 

 A majority of the complaints revolved around issues like poor infrastructure, problems in getting birth and death certificates, water supply and garbage among others. People can register their complaints on http://complaint.punecorporation.org/. 
 
 On an average around 1,200-1,500 complaints have been received by the civic administration via this platform every month. Over 25,000   have used this portal to air their grievances.
 
 "The grievances can be filed under appropriate category. Once grievance has been submitted, a token number is generated. Citizens can track the status of their grievances with the help of this token number. The citizens can provide feedback about the quality of resolution of the grievance. The content of this portal is managed centrally by  ," a note on the portal stated.
 
 "The system was started in May 2016. Nearly a year has passed since then and people are using it in large numbers. The administration has been getting complaints about different departments and most of them have been sorted out,"  , head of PMC's IT department, said.
 
 Before the launch of this system, the citizens were submitting their complaints physically at the civic administration office, besides sending emails. 
 
  Citizens pick holes in 
 
  civic body's claims 
 
 Though the authorities claim to have solved most of the grievances, the citizens have not been too happy with the entire experience. "My complaint was regarding a sanitation problem at a public toilet in a civic property, which was solved. However another complaint about a major road work in the housing complex of a civic staffer has gone unheard despite repeated follow-up," Vivek Velankar, founder of  , said. 
 
 Raising doubts over the civic body's claims of resolving most complaints, he said the civic authorities consider the problem as resolved when it is forwarded to the department concerned. 
 
 "I am very upset with the system. I had raised complaints about encroachments, but the administration has not taken any cognizance. The complaints have been resolved as per the civic body, the problem still persists," Sanjay Shitole, a resident of  , said.
 
