CHENNAI: On Tuesday, fear reigned in the minds of   a day after the   riot. They were watchful who was moving around in their ‘kuppam’. Anyone befitting an 'outsider' description was confronted and allowed to move after proper scrutiny.

 While riot control police claimed that the youths from Nadukuppam and other fishermen villages were the "anti-social elements" who pelted stones and burnt vehicles at the close of the jallikattu protest, the locals vehemently denied their involvement. "Our fault was that we sympathised with the student protests as a true Tamil. The police who ransacked our locality made that clear to us. We even supplied them (police) with food but there wasn't an ounce of gratitude on Monday," lamented S Bhagyavathi, a 50-year-old fish vendor.
 
 Locals said that when police used force to disperse the protesters from Marina Beach on Monday, the scattered crowd ran towards their locality pleading protection. "If you had come running asking for help, we would have sheltered you too," R Susheela, a resident of Nadukuppam 7th street, told this correspondent.
 
 Bhuvana, a resident of 2nd street, said: “If the police had let us know that they were going to use force to disperse the crowd, we would have neither let our children out nor kept our doors open.” 
 
 But offering shelter proved costly for the locals. Bottles were smashed and anyone looking youthful was dragged out of the houses and lathicharged, the locals claimed. "It wasn't mere lathicharge. They used weapons like steel pipes on children. The men who went around this area did not look like policemen. They used swear words to cuss women," alleged J Murugamma, a resident.
 
 On Nadukuppam main road stood the ruins of a fish market that was destroyed in a fire in Monday's chaos. "It was the police. A female sub-inspector set fire to the market," said S Vennila, a resident of Nadukuppam 1st street. Residents alleged that "a powder" (some said it was the inflammable chemical phosphorus) was used by police to commit arson.
 
 Several charred vehicles offer further proof of the volatile situation that prevailed here on Monday. Human rights activists stopped over at Nadukuppam and were spotted writing down people's accounts. Men, women and children lined up to show the activists their personal memorabilia from the carnage -- injured body parts.
 
 "Who gave the police the right to enter our homes and beat up our women? Because they did this, we retaliated," said a youngster in his 20s, justifying the stone-pelting incident that unfolded at that time. He would not reveal his name but insisted that had the residents of three nearby kuppams got together, they would have taught the police a lesson. "The respect is only for the khakhi uniform," he said, as other residents pacified him.
 
