PATNA: The Patna district administration has begun groundwork for the extension of the runway at   where construction of a civil enclave for commercial flight operations is expected to start later this year.

 The length of the runway at the airbase at present is 8,000 ft which is targeted to be increased to 9,500ft. Officials in the Bihta circle office claimed that the survey of land to be acquired for runway extension had been completed.
 
 “We recently had a meeting with the   officials deputed at the Bihta airbase as the runway is proposed to be extended in 2017-18. Based on the discussions at the meet, we have completed the survey of the required land and will soon proceed with the corresponding acquisition process,” said an official in the Bihta subdivisional office.
 
 The Patna district administration is expected to start the disbursement of funds to people whose lands will be acquired for development of the civil enclave on the western side of the Bihta airbase. At least 120 acres of land is to be acquired and handed over to the   (AAI).
 
 The state government will, in fact, hand over 108 acres of land to the AAI and the remaining 12 acres will be used for development of state hangar, VIP lounge and a hotel. The hotel will provide an option to the flyers to stay back at the airport as it is situated around 35km away from the city.
 
 The AAI is likely to start the work on development of the ultra-modern civil enclave at the Bihta airbase from June or July and ready the first block by mid-2019 at a cost of Rs 500 crore.
 
 The state cabinet, headed by chief minister  , had on November 15 last year sanctioned funds to the tune of Rs 260.74 crore for acquisition of the required land at the Bihta airbase.
 
 Meanwhile, the state road construction department is working on its plans for four-laning of the Khagaul-Shivala-Bihta road in order to provide a dedicated expressway for the airbase. The proposal of upgrading this road into a four-lane was already included in the budget of the road construction department for the fiscal 2016-17. Bihta airbase apart, the AAI and the Patna district administration are likely to complete the process of physical land transfer for the purpose of expansion of the Patna airport by the end of this week. The district administration has already completed the mutation process for transfer of the land of state hangar, IOC depot and   to the AAI in exchange of equivalent land belonging to the latter at Anisabad.
 
 
