NAGPUR: Serious anomalies in teaching and   scheme for Bachelor of Arts ( ) first semester have come to fore. The marklist issued to successful students and the direction on passing criteria don’t match, thus raising a question on validity of the exam.

 The NU has passed BA students scoring less than the minimum passing marks by clubbing the theory and internal assessment (IA) marks. However, the combined passing scheme was not implemented for the BA semester pattern.
 
 The BA first semester results were declared on March 29 after a long delay. On March 26, TOI had reported about the delay and the exam section had citied filmsy grounds for not being able to meet the deadline. 
 
 On Tuesday, NU insiders told TOI that the prime reason for the delay was that less than 10% students had cleared the exam which forced the NU to revise its direction related to the award of BA degree. The special exam committee, that is set up when results are abysmally low, had recommended that the combined passing examination scheme be implemented for the course to improve the result.
 
 On March 20, TOI had reported about the anomaly in passing criterion for different undergraduate courses in semester and credit-based semester pattern. TOI had categorically identified BA among other courses having separate minimum passing marks criteria for theory and internal assessment (IA). 
 
 Director, Board of Examinations and Evaluation   said, “All non-professional and professional courses have combined passing scheme.” When pointed out that the BA direction doesn’t states so, he said, “It was the academic section’s duty to notify the change. I had pointed out the flaw to them.”
 
 Deputy registrar  , head of academic section, said, “The decision to revise the direction was taken by the academic council but it is yet to be notified.”
 
 The evaluers and moderators were astonished at the varsity’s decision since they handled the answersheets as the existing direction on passing scheme.
 
 “A moderator goes through all the papers falling in the category of less than 10 marks of minimum passing criterion. If the minimum passing is 35 marks, so all the papers having 25 to 34 are checked by the moderator to see if there is a possibility of too pass student. If there was not minimum passing marks then what was the use of the exercise. Besides, it is academically unethical. Such rules must be cleared before the start of exam for students,” a moderator said.
 
 However,   said, “A moderator’s job is to just evaluate the paper out of the highest marks and not look out for minimum passing marks.”
 
