CHENNAI: Encouraged by the growing popularity of   like ayurveda,  , more farmers in the western region are opening up to the idea of cultivating medicinal plants. These are drought tolerant and can be grown as an intercrop that provides additional income. But marketing is still a challenge.

 Though traditional farmers in Coimbatore district still hesitate to grow medicinal plants, their counterparts in Tirupur, Udumalpet, Dharapuram and Karur are increasingly raising medicinal trees creasingly raising medicinal tree and herbs. “Gloriosa superba, a flowering plant, is grown in at least 3,000 acres in Tirupur, Karur and Dindigul,“ says the head of the medicinal plants department at the   , T Rajamani.
 
 “Five years ago, under a   scheme, we got around 40 farmers in the Udumalpet Dharapuram side to grow gloriosa superba as a fence plantation and they continue to do so because it is a solid additional income,“ says S Saravanan, scientist at the Institute of Forest Genetics and Tree Breeding and a specialist in medicinal plants.
 
 T Sakthivel, a farmer in Unathur, says marundhu koorakannu, or coleus forskholli, which he has been cultivating in 2.5 acres for 10 years, was now fetching him a good `25 per kg. But for three years before that, it was selling for a paltry `15.
 
 With gloriosa superba's market price soaring to `2,000 per kg, more farm ers in the Tirupur region are switching over from coconut and areca nut to this crop. Senna, which is used by allopathic companies in laxative drugs, is grown widely across Madurai and Virudhunagar. This is a low maintenance, drought resistant and an intercrop.
 
 According to the National Medicinal Plants Board, there are at least 6,000 flowering plants which have medicinal usage in folk and alternate forms of medicine. Almost 178 species are required in excess of 100 tonnes. The domestic trade of the AYUSH industry comes up to around Rs 80 billion and exports alone come up to around Rs 10 billion. Yet, farmers are not able to meet the require ments. Marketing seems to be the main problem. “Medicinal plant farm ing is not done is a system atic manner because only a few species are regu larly traded,“ said former Indian   of ficer Manoj Sarkar. “The market is not adequate because most factories source it from forests, which is cheaper and easier. Prices are often fixed by pharmaceuti cal companies.“
 
 But there are many success stories too. A Bangalore-based laboratory had brought about contract farming of marundhu koorkannu in Salem. They cultivated coleus across 10,000 acres in Salem, Villupuram, Vellore and Thiruvannamalai. This situation is being addressed by pharmaceutical companies and agriculture universities.
 
