Ahmedabad: The   ( ) has instituted an inquiry into the recurrence of potholes on the runway of   (SVPI) airport. The potholes reappeared on the runway on Saturday within a time period of 12 days after being treated raising questions about the quality of tarmac work done.

 Guruprasad Mohapatra, AAI chairman, said that that AAI officials are camping in the city to investigate the matter. Mohapatra, former municipal commissioner of Ahmedabad, said that the probe will look into lack of proper rainwater drainage from the airport and construction quality. 
 
 “I have sought a report on the incident and our people are camping in the city to investigate it,” Mohapatra said. “It is not just about heavy rains but about the system used to drain water from the runway.”
 
 Mohapatra stated that the bitumen surface of the tarmac is very vulnerable to waterlogging and required an efficient water drainage system. “If we don’t have adequate system to remove water from the runway area and into the city drainage, these (potholes) are always bound to happen,” he said.
 
 The quality of re-carpeting work will also be investigated said Mohapatra, adding that if any laxity is found then stern action will be taken.
 
 Mohapatra, however, maintained, “No matter, how well you do re-carpeting, if waterlogging remains for 12 hours, or incessant rains occur, then the runway is going to get damaged like city roads.” The AAI chairman said, “On city roads one could drive carefully to avoid potholes, but on a runway there is no other way but to stop an airplane to maintain passenger safety, when there are potholes.” The SVPI airport runway was resurfaced at a cost of Rs27 crore last year. The re-carpeting was to be completed by March 31 this year, but it was completed six months ahead of time, in October, 2016. 
 
 Sources said that patches on the runway appear very frequently and disasters may be in the making. 
 
 “In the past, patches used to appear during dry weather, but now it has started appearing in monsoon as well,” said a frequent flier.
 
