Having entertained the audience as Kapil Sharma's wife Manju on Comedy Nights with Kapil and then as Sarla on The  ,   stuck to comedy after her debut show Bade Acche Lagte Hain. However, the actress now returns to the fiction genre with an investigative thriller,  . In an exclusive conversation with the TimesOfIndia, the actress spoke about her new show,   and marriage.
 
  
 
  
  Isn't that a very good thing (laughs). Yes, I am a little choosy, but it's not that I have taken a leave from work. I am pretty much active. I have been choosy about the projects that I want to do and after working in the industry for 10 years I've understood that you have to keep a balance in your personal and professional life.
  
  
 
  
  I missed doing fiction, but just because I missed I won't do anything that comes my way. I am a little choosy. Luckily, if you do happen to see my work profile, you will see all my work has been different from each other. And I am glad I waited for it. Comedy happened to me and I enjoy doing it. The character in Bade Acche also went on for three and a half years.
  
  
 
  
  Comedy is very difficult. It is a difficult genre in itself because sometimes you may not be in a mood to laugh, but you have made people laugh. It takes a lot of effort and hard work at least for me. As an actor primarily I have always done fiction so it becomes a difficult genre. But having done it for last three to four years, it has now become a lot easier than it was earlier. I like doing different things at different time.
  
  
 
  
  It's been now three to four years since I am doing comedy. Honestly, nothing is demeaning so it doesn't matter and at the end of the day, we all are doing a job here.
  
  
 
  
  Firstly it was a finite series and then I was getting a chance to work with this mad man Ashish. The thought of doing a fictionalized thriller is altogether a different genre and something that I have never attempted. So, I am hoping that in this 26 episodes series at some point even I get to do action and stunts.
  
  
 
 
 
  
  Coming from Bengal and having grown up in that environment I have always heard a lot of things about   and also Satyajit Roy's short stories. I may not have read it or seen it but being in Bengali you have that in your upbringing. It can't happen that you don't know about them. But in today's day and age, I love watching Sherlock and the Mentalist.
  
  
 
  
  I think the way the International shows are doing so well in our country and being watched by people on their phone and net, I believe people will accept. This in itself proves that there is an audience for these kinds of shows. Dev is not a crime investigative show, it's an investigative thriller. It's not a show where we will show crime happening one after another. It is a show which has thriller, action, drama, romance and of course the detective and mystery part is also there.
  
  
 
  
  She is a single mother. Her name is  . She had a failed relationship and has a seven-year-old son. She is actually a professional psychic who can communicate with the paranormal world. She earns her livelihood out of this profession and how Dev enters her life. At first, they are at loggerheads and then start working with each other. She works as her apprentice and how then they become each other's always, the show is about their interpersonal relationships. These were the things that really intrigued me because I have never played a mother in my career and here the kid and I will be in one frame. It should look convincing and the audience should accept it. This in itself was very challenging.
  
  
 
 
 
  
  Initially, even I had my reservations. Even though if I look at my friends from my school or college have of them are already married or are parents. In personal life, it is something that hasn't crossed my mind. Here it crossed my mind and I began thinking what if I get typecast and start getting only Maa waala roles. But then it depends on how you do the character, then the person you are, the show that you are playing a mother in and then it also has a back story which is quite relatable. All of it put together I found it very challenging.
  
  
 
  
  No, I won't do. It's just me. It's a very hypothetical question. I am already doing one show, why will I do another comedy show.
  
  
 
 
 
  
  There will always be all sorts of reports and stories and you have to take it with a pinch of salt. Every coin has two sides to the story. The show is very much there, in fact, I will heading straight to the sets of TKSS after the launch of Dev.
  
  
 
  
  For me a show ends or an episode ends, my work ends and I move on to other projects.
  
  
 
  
  Yes. Sunil is an amazing human being and of course I miss him. When you work with a person for 3-4 years you obviously have that bonding and rapport so I miss him. But having said that a show doesn't stop, it must go on,"
  
  
 
 
 
  
  I think my sense of humor has changed a little bit and has also got better with him. Now I can do comedy with ease it is only because of him. It was a totally new genre for me and I had not done any comedy show before. I have learned a lot from him.
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  There are reports about my relationship every six months. But I am happily single. The day I get married my family and friends would not get to know through media. I will tell the world whenever I am in a relationship, there's nothing to hide.
  
  
 
  
  I don't want to marry and I don't want to get married ever. It's just a thing that I don't want to. I am pretty happy and satisfied being single. I don't think I need a marriage certificate to be in a relationship.
  
  
 
  
  I believe in commitment and companionship. I don't think I need a signed paper or a marriage certificate as a form of commitment.
  
  
 
  
  
