One of the landmark contributions of Raja Ravi Varma to Indian art is to give faces to divinities of the Hindu pantheon, drawing inspiration from Indian epics. "For  , similar work was done by Ravishankar Raval," said Manhar Kapadia, an artist and faculty member of CN Fine Arts College. "We know the luminaries of medieval Gujarati literature only through the images of Ra Ma Ra, as Raval is affectionately called." These icons of Gujarati letters include Narsinh Mehta, Premanand, Akho, and Mirabai. "Raval had the uncanny ability to bring out characteristics of a person with his powerful lines, setting, and colours."

 Gujarati textbooks of the state board immortalized these works; and Raval’s painting of Narsinh Mehta has found place on a postal stamp. Raval (1892-1977), a JJ School of Arts alumnus, was more than a celebrated artist. He paved the way for an entire generation of painters including Kanu Desai, Rasiklal Parikh, Somalal Shah, Bansi Verma, and  . His influence explains the sobriquet conferred on him: ‘Kalaguru’ (teacher of arts). Remembering Raval, Vrindavan Solanki, an artist, said that he cherishes the 54 postcards sent by Raval from 1961 to 1971 in which he talks of arts, trends, and society. "I had met him as a student even before joining the fine arts course and he asked me to send him a postcard," Solanki said. "To my surprise, he responded and kept writing and guiding me." Solanki said that Raval’s informal art school has gifted Gujarat a number of notables. "When art was limited to centres such as Bombay and Santiniketan, Raval inspired a generation and created art awareness in society," he said.
 
 Ramnik Zapadia, the general secretary of the Gujarat Kala Pratisthan, said that the Kalaguru’s 125 years were celebrated through an art camp held in Somnath. "Through hundreds of postcards, he reached the interiors of the state and identified artists whom he supported on a larger stage," he said. "His teachings for budding artists are as relevant as ever."
 
 
