MADURAI:   (Marine)   on Thursday morning rescued a woman and her three children who arrived from   on an illegal ferry after being allegedly tortured by her in-laws there. The four of them were found stranded on a sand dune off Dhanushkodi coast in   where ferrymen had left them before fleeing. 

 Local fishermen spotted the woman and her children in the third sand dune beyond Arichalmunai and intimated the marine police at Mandapam. Based on the information, the police personnel rescued them using their patrol boat. The woman and her children were brought to marine police station at Mandapam. Investigation revealed her name as V Thangam, 30 and her husband as Vigneswaran from Pandaranayagapuram in Sri Lanka. Thangam who hails from Maniachi in Tuticorin district fell in love with Vigneswaran who came to India on a tourist visa in 2010 and married him. 
 
 After living here for three years, the couple who had two children by then went to Sri Lanka in 2013. Marine police sources said that the man was into drugs and there were frequent disputes between the couple. After the third child was born, Vigneswaran left for Saudi Arabia in 2016 leaving Thangam and her children with his mother. 
 
 Thangam told marine police that Vigneswaran stopped talking to her and she and her children were tortured by her mother-in-law. As she could not take it any more, she decided to return to India. But she could not obtain passports for her children since her husband was away. She sought help from her family in Maniachi who submitted a petition to the Tuticorin district administration last year. In the appeal, they urged the government to repatriate their daughter and grandchildren since they were not taken care of properly in their in-law’s house in Sri Lanka. “The appeal somehow did not proceed beyond embassy level”, a marine police official said. 
 
 Finally she decided to take an illegal ferry and approached some ferrymen at Mannar paying them Rs 1 lakh. Along with her children she boarded the ferry at Talaimannar by 8 pm on Wednesday and the ferrymen left them at the first sand dune near Arichalmunai in the wee hours of Thursday. 
 
 The woman was booked on charges of violating rules of Passport Act and was produced before Rameswaram court on Thursday evening. The magistrate however released her on conditional bail mandating to sign at the police station for seven days. The magistrate apparently took note of her appeal of nursing her one-year-old child.
 
 
