NAGPUR: In a bid to push the government to implement recommendations made by   and waive off farm loans, the   (KUS) on Wednesday launched the first leg of a four-day rally from Ramtek to garner farmers’ support to the movement in Nagpur district. The rally visited nearby villages and spread awareness about the movement.

 A 2006 report by National Commission on Farmers ( ), headed by geneticist MS Swaminathan, had recommended strategizing food and nutrition security, enhancing profitability, increasing flow of rural credit for farmers and protecting them from global price drop of crops.
 
 KUS national president BJ Agrawal said, “We want the state government to allow farmers to earn a profit of at least 50% on their produce.” His statement was in reference to a recommendation in the report aimed at increasing minimum support price (MSP) which should be at least 50% more than the average cost of production. “Higher MSP will be beneficial to farmers residing in areas where water is scarce as they have to spend considerably more on irrigation,” said Agrawal.
 
 Agrawal said the total debt borne by farmers in Maharashtra is around Rs 30,000 crore which needs to be waived off. Also, the national figure of non-performing assets (NPA) in agricultural sector is estimated at Rs 46,000 crore. Agrawal told TOI that final meeting of the rally will be held at Kasharwadi on Saturday which will be attended by farmers of the district. 
 
 District president of KUS Laxmanrao Nalepeddi said, “We spoke to many farmers in the villages we visited today and all agreed to the waiver of farm loans which has become a huge burden on them. We have also invited them for the final meeting.”
 
 Sandeep Agrawal, a member of KUS, said, “We will be visiting farmers in villages across the district and invite them to join us.” On the first day, KUS covered Mansar, Kandri, Seoni, Paoni, Deolapar, Karvai and Mauli Parseoni. Later, a meeting was held at Nagardhan. 
 
 KUS cited a report by   which concluded that of the nine crore farming families in the country, 52% are in debt. The report also states that average agriculture debt in Andhra Pradesh is Rs 1.23 lakh per family. In Telangana, 89% farming families are in debt. 53% of the farming population in Punjab has an average debt of Rs 1.18 lakh while 51.5% farmers in West Bengal owe, on an average, Rs 17,800 per family.
 
 KUS alleged that the nationalized banks have not recovered Rs 2.8 billion worth of corporate debt, affecting their functioning. But the government has done little to rectify the issue. On the other hand, it continues to be insensitive towards farm loan waivers.
 
 Agrawal said that farmers in Tamil Nadu are demanding a compensation of up to Rs 25,000 per acre from the state government. Telangana government is paying Rs 8,000 per acre under a free fertilizer scheme.
 
