THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Veteran legal educator N R Madhava Menon, on Wednesday, refuted the allegations that high court Judge  , who granted anticipatory bail to P Krishnadas in the   case, had links with the   college management. 

 Mahija – the mother of Jishnu who committed suicide following alleged harassment by the college management – had written to the chief justice of the high court to look into this alleged link. “I have received six photographs, through social media, which indicate that Justice Mathew has close links with Nehru college authorities,” she had written in her letter.
 
 The photographs, in which students and some representatives of the controversial education group were seen standing next to the judge, was clicked by students as they were allowed to attend as observers at a workshop organized by the  , said Madhava Menon, who was the moderator of the event.
 
 “The Nelliyampathy workshop for advocates was part of the continuing education programme organised by the Bar Council of India and the   in which besides lawyers, law students of the neighbouring law colleges were allowed to attend as observers. As the director of the M  , I was invited to be the moderator. Judge Mathew was one of the resource persons who talked on evidence in trial courts,” he said in a written statement.
 
 At the end of the session as he was leaving the venue, the students wanted to take a photo with the judge. “Since they were law students, he obliged though he had no clue about their college. To use photos taken on such occasion to implicate a judge is totally unacceptable and should be condemned by all those concerned with purity in administration of justice,” he said.
 
 “As one of the organizers of the workshop and a person privy to the circumstances in which the photographs were taken, I thought it was my duty to explain the facts to your readers. Those behind this mischief should not be allowed to spoil the purity of administration of justice and honesty of judges, by manipulating and falsifying facts,” he added.
 
