HOWRAH: There is hectic activity atop some of the rooftops at  , Shibpur, aimed at minimizing the use of conventional energy by replacing it with solar energy. If all goes well, the massive solar plant that is being set up will start producing power and pushing it into the grid before June is out. And the campus will be the first one in the country to have successfully been able to generate electricity from the sun, biogas and wind.

 Additionally, the institute is slated to save at least Rs 80 lakh annually when the plant is fully functional. 
 
 The switchover from conventional to alternative energy at IIEST is happening under the aegis of the ministry of new and renewable energy, which has taken up the mission of setting up solar power plants atop all Centre-run institutions. In February, the contract for setting up the plant was given to a private partner, Delhi-based Rays Experts, by the Solar Energy Corporation of India. Interestingly, it has also been given the responsibility of setting up the massive 10 megawatt plant atop Howrah Station. 
 
 The plant at IIEST will have the capacity to generate 800 kilowatts of power and flow it into the general grid, said institute authorities. 
 
 “We have partially completed the project and have been generating 200 kilowatts of power. We should be able to reach our optimum by June,” said CEO of Rays Experts  . 
 
 The head of the institute’s green energy centre,  , said: “Alternative green energy sources are our only solution to the power crisis that is staring at us. The conventional power that we will save by pushing in the alternatively generated power back to the grid will help light many villages that are yet to get electricity,” 
 
 The Shibpur campus pays an electricity bill of Rs 32 lakh in a month and requires 4.26 lakh units monthly. The solar plant will generate 90,000 units per month, resu-lting in total savings of Rs 8 lakh every month.
 
 According to the agreement with the Centre, Rays Experts will set up the plant at its own expense, paying Rs 10 crore, but will sell power to the institute at Rs 5 per unit. At present, the conventional energy provider charges Rs 8 per unit. 
 
 
