VARANASI: A big banner hanging near the office of   (BJP) in   clearly indicated that resentment is brewing in   in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Kashi over ticket distribution for assembly elections particularly in   assembly constituency. However, the banner was removed after it went viral on social media.

 Through the banner some BJP supporters wanted to convey ‘Maan Ki Baat’ to the PM questioning the candidature of Saurabh Srivastava, the son of sitting MLA Jyotsana Srivastava and former minister late Harishchandra Srivastava. The Srivastava family represented the seat for six times. 
 
 Bearing the image of PM in the middle and BJP’s symbol (lotus) on both ends the banner reads, “I am a voter of Cantt assembly constituency. I am forlorn and helpless. I have been tolerating Jyotsana Srivastava and late Harishchandra Srivastava for last 27 years. In coming days, I have to tolerate their son Saurabh Srivastava… until he grows old like his mother. Would I have to tolerate the sons of Saurabh?” 
 
 The banner further reads, “Is it our destiny to tolerate a tainted person? Are we bound to tolerate a person, whose manner is not good with the party workers? Could the family ruling the constituency for 27 years point out a single achievement? Are the BJP voters and workers really helpless to tolerate this family?”
 
 BJP state president Keshav Prasad Maurya, who was in the city on Friday, said that those who are levelling baseless charges are not the ‘asli karyakarta’ (real workers) of the party. 
 
 Soon after the announcement of BJP candidates the dissatisfaction surfaced in the city. While the seven-time winner in a row Shyamdeo Roy Chaudhury popularly known as Dada was denied ticket from Varanasi South constituency, the first time contestant Saurabh has been fielded in place of his mother from Varanasi Cantt seat. The party has fielded a young and new face Neel Kanth Tiwari by dropping Roy Chaudhry, who was in a state of surprise and shock as well for not a word from the party before his replacement. The level of his dissatisfaction could be understood with his reaction, “I did not have any communication from party to know why I was dropped. If it has been done on the basis of age, the party had already fielded many candidates who are older than me.” He, however, clarified that he is loyal to the party. 
 
