PUNE: So near, yet so far, is how residents of Baner Pashan Link Road describe feeling about the construction of the 120ft-wide road that is part of the development plan (DP) for the area. 

 Issues related to land acquisition may halt the road work between Beuna Vista and   Sahawas society soon. However, between   and Kumar Shantiniketan, the road has been partially concretised after work began in January.
 
 The DP-notified road has been a long-pending demand of the residents, many of whom bought houses here on the prospect of staying along a full-fledged thoroughfare. However, negotiations with some land owners of the notified stretch have remained inconclusive over the years, thus creating stumbling blocks.
 
 Meanwhile, the brunt of the growing vehicular traffic in the area is being borne by the old Baner-Pashan Link Road, where congestion and chaos is an everyday affair thanks to residential complexes, shops and restaurants booming over the last five years.
 
 Despite advanced-level talks regarding the acquisition, the recent overnight removal of a motor repair garage on one of the allegedly contentious plots by the civic body's anti-encroachment department could pose a problem, with the land owner upset about the property damage.
 
 Jagan Dalvi, owner of the garage, shared, "We are ready to hand over our land but the civic body has broken my garage, which wasn't on the land for the proposed road. They did it without even a notice. Now they need to come forward and compensate me for the damage. We have been already fighting a long battle regarding the floor space index (FSI) in the area and now this has come up."
 
 While officials of Pune Municipal Corporation's (PMC) land acquisition department confirmed that a patch along the notified stretch is yet to be acquired, those in the road department expressed confidence that they would get possession by the time the road construction team reaches the spot. 
 
 Road department head Rajendra Raut said, "We are constantly following up with the land acquisition department. The stretch from Wakeshwar Chowk up to   has to be concretised. There are provisions in the law for land acquisition and we are going by what is prescribed in such cases."
 
 For their part, the local residents hope the road is completed soon.  , who lives at Crystal Garden Society, said, "The current situation is highly inconvenient. A large portion has been dug up for construction, so we are unable to access local shops without taking a diversion. Driving through the old Link Road too is a nightmare because of the heavy traffic. The land acquisition issue is at the cost of inconveniencing thousands of residents of the area. We hope the parties concerned sort out their issues with PMC soon."
 
 Ravindra Sinha, member of the Baner Pashan Link Road Vikas Samiti, seems quite exasperated. "We have been following up on this issue for the last three years, running from the civic body to the area corporators, even the MLA. More than 50 meetings have been held just to find a way to break the stalemate. We have nothing against the land owners, but we urge the civic body to find a solution," he stated.
 
