HYDERABAD: In order totackle   at college level, Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, Hyderabad (JNTU-H) is planning to increase parent-teacher meetings and orientation programmes to create awareness on the   of substance abuse.

  To enable it, the registrar of the varsity directedconstituent and affiliated colleges of JNTU to organize events. The varsity also asked the colleges to organize talksby police and officials from public administration departments through audio and video lectures. “The youth are becoming highly dependent on drugs and other substances, which are not only ruining their careers but is also a financial burden to their families.
 
  In this connection, the principals are requested to create awareness by organizing parent  , orientation programmes,” JNTU registrar   said in a circular to the educational institutions. He said it was the moral duty of educational institutions to make students aware of the ill-effects of   and suggested thatcolleges constitute committees by involving students and faculty totake proactivesteps toensure students live a healthy life and stay away from any kind of addiction. 
 
 The colleges, on the other hand, gave a mixed response to the varsity’s suggestion. Some managements feel that creating too much awareness could backfire, while others said colleges should be made responsible and, if required, their affiliation shouldbecanceled, if they fail to stop students from drug abuse. “As part of management, we know more about students than their parents and we get information from other students when a student is going off the track. 
 
 We should be made responsible and given additional responsibility to tackle the menace. If this is done, the drug menace can be certainly controlled. If needed, action should be initiated against colleges,” said G Nagaiah, owner of an engineering college and vice-president,Telangana Private Engineering College Association.  , president, Engineering College Association, said it was a sensitive subject and one should not panic and put pressure on students.
 
