HYDERABAD: For seven-year-old Srilekha (name changed) an unfulfilled demand for pizza one evening, spiralled into a five month-long episode of extreme  . While her parents could figure out that 'something was wrong' within two-weeks of turning down the demand, it took the psychologist months to drag her out from a troubled state of mind.

 Similarly, eight-yearold Prakash (name changed) too had suddenly stopped talking to his parents, going out or sleeping in the night. He instead slept during the day, turned irritable and even attacked his classmates in a sudden fit of rage. Probe into these `violent outburst' of an otherwise well-behaved child revealed that he had been distressed due to the mounting pressure on him to do well in various extra-curricular activities.
 
 While such narratives among children were a rarity until a decade ago, 'serious depression' among kids between 6 and 10 years of age are fast becoming commonplace, warn psychologists and   from the city. “Childhood and adolescent depression was rare earlier.But nowadays, not only does depression set in at a very early age but even the trigger is often trivial,“ said Dr Pragya Rashmi, consultant psychologist,   and  . Around 15 of her patients on a daily basis are from this age group.
 
 In case of children, experts say, family, peers and school are the three focal points that can trigger depression. Genetic factors too can contribute to depression, in a few instances they add. “From having 20 to 22-year-olds as the youngest patients a few years ago, the bracket has dropped drastically now. Childhood depression is an unfortunate reality ,“ said Dr Anitha Are, consultant psychologist, Citizen Hospitals.
 
 Apart from a fast-paced life, high-performance demands coupled with `proxy parenting' are reasons for this rising problem, say experts. “With the disintegration of the family structure, there is an increase in proxy parenting where both parents are working and the child is being practically raised by an aayah.Not having a proper parenting can push the child to feel unloved,“ explained Dr Praveen Chintapanti, psychiatrist, Tranquil minds  .
 
