GHAZIABAD: A 38-year-old dairy outlet owner in Masuri allegedly shot dead his wife and ferried her body in his car to his in-laws’ place in Govindpuram and then shot at his  . The elderly woman has been admitted to hospital with serious injuries in her abdomen. The accused, Satyender Teotia, fled the spot in his car though the neighbours, on hearing gunshots, came out and started pelting stones at him. He was later arrested.

 Though the accused later claimed infidelity as the reason for the murder, the woman’s family claimed that he had been harassing them over dowry for many years.
 
 According to police, Satyender, who runs a dairy, left his home in Masuri in on Wednesday afternoon with wife Rajkumari in their   car. “The couple had an altercation earlier. Later during questioning, Satyender admitted that he suspected his wife of being in an illicit relationship. So on the pretext of taking her to her parents’ place, he shot dead her on the way,” said Hemant Rai, SHO, Kavinagar police station.
 
 “He came to our house in   society and told my wife Indrani to “go and see the condition of your daughter whom I have shot dead. When she rushed outside, she found the body of my daughter Rajkumari on the back seat. Satyender then fired at my wife also,” said Omveer, Satyender’s father-in-law.
 
 “On hearing gunshots, residents of Krishna Garden rushed out and saw Satyender holding a pistol while Indrani was lying in a pool of blood on the ground. They started pelting stones at Satyender who fled in his car with Rajkumari’s body,” said Omveer. However, he was soon arrested from Govindpuram police post.
 
 Sixty-year-old Indrani sustained two bullet injuries in her abdomen and head and was rushed to  .
 
 “While my daughter Rajkumari has died my wife is in a critical condition and according to doctors she has slipped into a coma,” said Omveer.
 
 Asked what could have been reason behind the attack, Omveer said: “My daughter was married to Satyender for the past 13 years and the couple has two daughters aged 10 and nine years and a five-year-old son. He was demanding dowry for a long time and continuously harassing my daughter. We had an altercation with him over this issue a number of times and it is because of this reason that he attacked them,” said Omveer.
 
 A case under Section 302 (murder) and 307 (attempt to murder) of IPC has been slapped against the accused. The body of Rajkumari was sent for post mortem.
 
 
