Musician   might not be bitter about his song not being officially released as the party’s anthem for the polls, but he does not mince words either. Kailash’s song 'Badal Raha Hai Desh', 'Ab Badlegi Delhi' was earlier going to have a big-ticket launch as the official anthem of BJP’s   (MCD) poll campaign, but last minute the plan changed as   chief Manoj   also recorded and released a song for the party. Now, Tiwari’s song has made the final cut and Kailash’s will take a backseat.

 Kailash said, “Abhi to politics shuru hui hai… politics is very complicated and I don’t want to get into it. I record thousands of tunes and compose thousands of songs for so many projects. I have earlier composed many songs for BJP’s other campaigns and they have all been received well.”
 
 “Now, just because Tiwari’s song took precedence here, I don’t want to get upset and mull over it. This is something that happens and it is a part of life,” said Kailash, who was in Delhi to receive the Padma Shri Award. “I came to know just yesterday through a source that my song will soon be released on social media. Tiwari is the Delhi BJP chief and he is also known for his Bhojpuri songs. We are both professionals and friends, and can’t take this issue seriously. Ek song ko launch nahi mila toh zindagi khatam nahi hoti hai. I will continue with my work.”
 
 According to sources, Tiwari’s song 'Bhajpa Dil Mein' was recorded earlier and the party leaders had liked it. Kailash said, “What happens at the Centre and why a particular song is liked or rejected by the top party leaders is something only they know. As far as I am concerned, my songs have always been appreciated by the party.” 
 
 Kailash told us that in the last week of March, he had been asked by the central leadership to compose a song that featured the party’s slogan. With 25 musicians, he composed and wrote the song in just two days. He said, “We worked for two days without any sleep, continuously, to give the party the song on April 6. But bahot si cheezein ho jaati hain...abhi uska gam nahin karein to acha hai.” 
 
 In the past, Kailash had sung the poll anthems for the BJP and  , besides rendering the theme song for the Agra-Lucknow Expressway, the Swachchh Bharat campaign and the Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao campaign . He said, “If you listen to my songs, they are aimed at the youth of the country. I am not trying to support any particular party, but my songs bring in a change in perception and inspire people to take action.”
 
 
  
 
