Though Sarayu Mohan made her debut with films, she is now a much loved face in the telly audience, with her current small-screen role — Nandana of Eeran Nilavu. 

 Quiz her about her decision to move to showbiz and pat comes the reply, “I have always wanted to be a part of something people love to watch. And this medium made me closer to them.” In a quick conversation, Sarayu talks about her journey in showbiz and her dream to become a director. 
 
 
 
  It was through the film Kappal Muthalali that I debuted in films in a prominent role. Ramesh Pisharody, who is a close friend of mine, suggested my name to its director Thaha. After that I was blessed to be part of many Malayalam and Tamil film projects. I was also receiving offers from serials but none of them impressed me as they had the same old clichéd subjects. Also I had to put on heavy make-up and colourful costumes for the characters. Then I got to hear the storyline of Eeran Nilavu from its director Arun Kumar NV. I liked her a lot as she is a simple and positive character. 
 
 
 
 The serial has crossed over 250 episodes and the feedback I receive for the character is overwhelming. I was a little apprehensive during the first schedules but now I am confident about playing her, from her mannerisms to voice modulation. Whenever I go out, I come across people who approach me calling me Nandana. Once an old lady came to me and said “Nandanamol karayaruth, karayathe ellam neridunna Nandaneyanu njangalk ishtam”. My character is softspoken and has her own vision of life which makes her different from characters in other serials. I have portrayed her with minimal make-up and simple saris. In real life, I am a talkative person unlike the silent Nandana.
 
 In films we act as a character for just 15 to 20 days but on TV we are portraying them for more than a year so we get registered in the hearts of our audience for long.
 
 
 
  It was my good fortune to act with actor Suriya in his film, Singam 3. Usually if I get offers from the Tamil industry, I make a background research of the crew but when I heard the name Suriya I gave a quick ‘Yes’ (laughs). It was a fan girl moment for me, doing a small combination sequence with him on the screen. Though it was not a prominent role, it was a moment to cherish. Suriya is very caring and always respects the other cast members, regardless of their age and role.
 
  
 
 I am happy that I married my best friend Sanal who understands me and my profession well. Earlier I used to choose my projects alone but now I get guidance from Sanal. He is a director and gives me his advice. He also helped me to become aware of the technical aspects apart from acting.
 
 
 
 I have tried a hand at directing through my short film Pacha. It was moulded from a short story that I wrote about the colour green. It is my dream to see my name on screen under the title ‘director’. I am trying to devote my time to writing also, especially short stories. I also wish to work as an assistant director to get hands-on-experience in it.
 
  Yes, I do miss films now. As I have a tight serial shooting schedule, I didn’t commit to any other projects till now. I wish to concentrate on movies in the future than on serials.
 
