HYDERABAD: With the   asking schools to put their entire staff through psychometric evaluation to understand their psyche within the next two months, startups are now offering to run psychometric test backed by depth analytics and data science to study psychological behavior.

 These startups conduct the psychometric test on a larger sample at the same time and get a real-time evaluation on the basis of the automated system. Such a process will enable many schools to evaluate a larger chunk of employees easily and faster.
 
 “On average it takes around half an hour to one hour to conduct the process on an individual. So, it would be difficult to evaluate all the teaching and non-teaching staff in schools in two months. To solve this, we provide schools a platform where psychometric tests are conducted on the large sample,“ said  ,CEO & Co-founder of  , a startup which conducts behavior tests on employees across various business verticals.
 
 He said that the bulk tests they conduct are very accurate and said that this process will enable many schools to evaluate a larger chunk of employees easily and faster.
 
 The clinical psychologists, meanwhile, said that the psychometric tests will be useful only if it is supervised by the `right' person or else it would be just waste of money .
 
 “For sure many of the tests involved in studying a behavior of a person can be conducted in bulk and can be analyzed. However, only clinical psychologists possess the skill set needed to analyze the data properly . If some person, who is not properly trained conducts these tests, it will be a mere formality and will be   complete waste of money ,“ said  , a clinical psychologist adding that conducting psychometric tests will definitely bring down incidents of corporal punishment in the schools will know what kind of person they are recruiting.
 
 The schools, on the other hand, said that more than on teachers these tests and police verification are important for sub-staff as they are the ones who are not vigorously interviewed while recruiting.
 
 “The teachers are interviewed by the panel and while recruiting not just their teaching skills, we check their overall personality . So, psychometric tests are just an eye was when it comes to teaching staff. And, when it comes to sub-staff like drivers, watchmen, and others, more than behavior test, background verification will do the trick as it would effectively reveal what kind of person they are. However, police should not intimidate them, but be friendly in the process,“ said  , principal, P Obul Reddy Public School.
 
