NEW DELHI: After two days and 166 overs of slogging it out in the field, Bangladesh finally had something to be happy about. The old guard of Shakib Al Hasan and Mushfiqur Rahim came together yet again and pulled Bangladesh out of trouble - not once but twice. On a day where the Indian bowlers seemed to be in with a chance of running away with advantage, both batsmen struck crucial partnerships to take Bangladesh to a respectable total.

 
 
 
 Shakib and Mushfiqur put up Bangladesh's first real notable performance of the match - a century partnership between the two - that revived the innings after the Indian bowlers had earlier reduced them to 109/4 before lunch. Bangladesh's most reliable pair put together 107 runs before R Ashwin removed Shakib to remain one shy of becoming the quickest to 250 Test wickets.
 
 Then, with six down for 256, Mushfiqur found an unlikely ally in their frontline spinner Mehedi Hasan, who struck a maiden half-century and forged an unbeaten 83-run alliance. A blow to Mushfiqur's pinky finger off the final over might have given Bangladesh a few nervy moments, but when he pulled the next one for four, he took his tally to 3000 Test runs and Bangladesh to 322 for 6 at stumps.
 
 If after two days of being toyed by the Indian batsmen Bangladesh thought now was their turn to make amends with the bat, that objective didn't materialise initially. Having lost   and Mominul Haque in the gap of 20 runs, Shakib and Mahmudullah seemed to be providing assistance, before   produced a length-ball that moved in slightly off the pitch. Mahmudullah played down the wrong line and was given out. A referral couldn't save him.
 
  and   made the 14-over-old ball move as if it was brand new. Bhuvneshwar applied the early squeeze and the pressure mounted. Result: Third over of the day, Bangladesh lost Tamim to a run-out to a horrible piece of miscommunication between the two batsmen. Returning for a second run, that was never there, Bhuvneshwar picked up a clean throw and didn't miss the stumps.
 
 Umesh operated on a probing line, regularly firing in at over 140. One of the good-length balls that straightened after pitching caught Mominul in front of the stumps. Seldom has Umesh bowled in rhythm, and today he showed just how unplayable he can be when he does.
 
 Shakib, fresh off his double century against New Zealand last month, scored his 21st fifty and remained the prime reason behind Bangladesh's comeback. The left-hander was equally effective against spin and pace, and even though he was troubled by Umesh's reverse early on, Shakib did not let his guard down. Ashwin and Ravindra Jadeja got the ball to turn and grip, while Bhuvneshwar beat the outside edge more than once. But that wasn't to bog down Bangladesh's second-highest run-scorer in Tests.
 
 Twice he took Bhuvneshwar for two fours in an over; his aggressive intent dishing out a similar treatment to Umesh as well. Shakib's confidence reflected on Mushfiqur. The pair has now added 466 runs in two innings. Despite numerous confusions between him and his partner while running between the wickets, the Bangladesh captain was willing to see off the movement and get his eye in. Ashwin finally struck for India, when he drew Shakib forward and the batsman mishit to find Virat Kohli at mid-on. And Jadeja then removed Sabbir Rahman three overs before the break to peg Bangladesh back.
 
 Mushfiqur seemed all but gone when a run out replay saw him unable to ground his bat while putting in the dive. But the third umpire thought otherwise and Mushfiqur carried on. He played the sweep shot particularly well; was quick to judge the length of the ball and. Everytime a wicket fell, he would bat with precaution and once his partner settled in, began scoring. Mehedi Hasan, after enduring a poor show with the ball, picked up the bat and gave Mushfiqur the company he needed. 
 
 Mehedi had 51 from with ten fours, an innings slightly more entertaining but equally strong-willed. Not carrying the reputation of a batsman - his first eight innings had resulted in just 20 runs - he took on the pacers and hit them boldly over the slips. He even played the delicate late cut off Ashwin for four, showing tremendous application for a 19-year-old. Aware of the fact that no proper batsman was to come after him, he dug deep and offered firm resistance. A resistance that saw them not lose a wicket in the final session. He became the youngest Bangladesh batsman to score a fifty against India in Tests.
 
 India lost both their reviews. The first one when Virat Kohli referred a ball that seemingly seemed to be missing Mahmudullah's leg stump and then when Ashwin went up for a leg before shout to Shakib.
 
 
  Bangladesh 322/6 (Shakib Al Hasan 82, Mushfiqur Rahim 81*; Umesh Yadav 2/72) trail India by 365 runs.
 
