CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court on Tuesday asked Air India to explain as to why it had diverted the Delhi-Birmingham flight from Amritsar to Delhi despite the fact that majority of passengers were from Punjab. The court was also of the view that if Air India is not interested to start flight from Amritsar, it can ask other private airlines to start flights.

 Finding irrationality behind shifting the flight to Delhi, HC observed that by diverting a direct flight from Amritsar to Delhi for  , passengers are forced to pay more without any reasons, as they have to travel from Punjab to Delhi.
 
 The court also observed that apparently rights of the people of this region are being compromised for the benefit of Delhi by the Centre.
 
 Division bench headed by Justice S S Saron made these observations during the resumed hearing of a petition filed by   (AVM), seeking resumption of non-stop international Air India flights from Sri Guru Ram Dass Jee International Airport Amritsar to London, Birmingham and other destinations.
 
 Giving details about the passenger load from Amritsar to Birmingham, Amritsar Vikas Manch told the court on Tuesday that number of passengers who traveled between Amritsar-Delhi-Birmingham and vice-versa, clearly shows that the total capacity of an aircraft is 250 and if we calculate incoming and outgoing flight, a total number of 512 passenger travel daily and 1,86,880 passengers travelled in a year.
 
 It was further stated that according to the 2015-16 statistics, 1,36,046 passengers travelled on this route, which means the total load on this route is 72.7%. Out of this 49,281 passengers flew to and from Amritsar, thus making 36.2% of the flight load from Amritsar.
 
 Counsel for AVM, Ankur Soni further told the court that many passengers instead of waiting for a connecting flight from Amritsar travels by Shatabdi train or by own cars or taxis to Delhi.
 
 Taking these passengers in account, the load factor from Amritsar should never be less than 75%, but still Air India prefers its flight from Delhi instead of Amritsar.
 
 Soni further argued that Delhi is the only airport which charges users development fee (UDF) from both the arriving and departing passengers, which means that the UDF charge for the Delhi-Amritsar-Birmingham flight would be around Rs 1,500 whereas charge in Amritsar is only Rs 950.
 
 He said this means that the   is charging around Rs 550 excess per passengers. It comes out to be Rs 75 crore for 1,36,046 passengers, which is the amount that Air India is paying in excess as UDF charges to Delhi airport but still not ready to start its flight from Amritsar airport. It was also stated that the annual loss of Amritsar airport is Rs 50 crore, which can be compensated to a large extent if Air India starts its flight from Amritsar airport.
 
 
