JAIPUR: Clean environment and healthy life, that's what the   (JSML) has proposed, riding literally on a cycling project. 

 To promote eco-friendly and independent mode of transport in the Pink city, the mission is all set to introduce a public bicycle sharing (PBS) scheme. As per the scheme, one can rent a bicycle from docking stations that will be set up at 20 public and tourists locations in the city.
 
 A Delhi-based firm, Greenolution, has been selected for the project and JSML will issue the work order on Friday. Sandesh Nayak, chief executive officer, JSML, said, "The project has been christened 'Cyclo'. The scheme will provide pollution-free last-mile connectivity for residents. It docking station are expected to be completed in three weeks after the work order is released."
 
 The estimated cost of the project is Rs 1.10 crore.
 
 "Each docking station will cost approximately Rs 5.5 lakh. The project will be operated and maintained through advertising, which is expected to fetch Rs 3 crore," added Nayak
 
 Explaining the concept, the official said that PBS would make bicycles available to multiple users for sharing on short trips and offer the option of returning them at a different destination.
 
 The project will be developed in phases and JSML will launch the scheme initially at five stations ion various localities. Once the entire network is over, it would cover a nearly six sq-km area. Initially, these docking stations will be installed at  , behind   , in front of   (JLN Marg), New Gate and Trimurti Circle.
 
 At one station, 20 cycles will be available on a rental basis. Users will have to pay Rs 10 per hour. Keeping the security aspect in mind, the rental facility will only be provided only after a detailed verification of the user. Interested commuters will have to fill a simple form giving basic details. The form will be available at all cycle shelters or can be downloaded from the company's website.
 
 An app will also be launched for residents to book cycles. 
 
