Chennai: Insurance sales and retention has always been about personality. And insurance companies today are investing more in artificial intelligence (AI) to ensure their robots have it in them to hook customers. Insurance companies are investing big-time in artificial intelligence. From VR humanoids like Kushi — PNB Metlife’s insurance personal assistant to HDFC Life’s launch of an email bot ‘SPOK’ — insurers are leveraging the power of AI, chat bots, robotics, natural language processing. 

 Imbued with ‘personality’, HDFC Life’s SPOK can read, understand, categorise, prioritise and respond to customer emails within milliseconds — something that the insurer hopes will help in reducing costs and improving customer experience. HDFC Life with startup Senseforth aims at getting SPOK to help it identify deeper insight on customer needs and identify trends and patterns based on interactions. Something that usually pays off rich dividends like in the case of insurance aggregator EasyPolicy.com. At EasyPolicy.com. bots its co-founder Neeraj Aggarwala says have helped site traffic and navigation enormously. “Today, the customer gets fazed at times by information overload. And it is not just customers, but our own staff as well. To expect customer service personnel to know every single deal, discounts, add-ons, additional riders, benefits on every single policy would be near impossible and also quite tiresome. With a bot — there is no question of training 200 plus call centre executives. It is a one-time effort with multiple dividend — as the bots can handle hundreds and maybe even thousands of customers — while customer care representatives can deal with only one customer at one time,” says Aggarwala.
 
 And it is an improve customer experience that players like HDFC Life are looking at with their email bot. “SPOK will help us increase our operational efficiency and we are excited to see how these interactions with our customers provide us inputs to enrich their future experience with us,” says Subrat Mohanty, senior EVP, HDFC Life.
 
 A question with bots is will they offer advice or information in clipped, metallic tones or can the conversation be pleasant and informal. HDFC Life says, “SPOK is designed to mimic human cognitive abilities in reading, comprehending, interpreting, and conversing. One of the key proficiency is gauging customer emotions,” added Mohanty.
 
 Another key reason why insurance companies and aggregators have started looking to bots is the high attrition rates faced by the industry. With attrition rates on average between 30-35%, chat bots, VR assistant would prove a key differentiator in terms of cutting costs, reducing manpower and improving efficiency; given the infinite amount of data the bot can process, say experts.
 
 
 
