CHENNAI: Supply chain solution provider TVS Logistics has acquired more than 60% stake in SPC International through its UK arm TVS Rico Supply Chain Services. SPC International is an Uxbridge UK based company with an annual turnover of Rs 165 crore. The total investment by TVS Logistics for this acquisition and funding its future growth will be in excess of Rs 100 crore. "This acquisition in the UK adds repair and parts supply to the company’s list of end-to-end supply chain services for its customers worldwide," said the company in a statement.

 The company previously acquired well-known UK brands like DHL Same-Day and Circle Express. TVS Rico is the flagship company of TVS Logistics in the UK. It operates in Australia, India and more than 19 countries in Europe with 45 locations in the UK and Ireland and offers spares management, transport, warehousing, and engineering solutions to its broad range of customers. John Hemphill and his management team at SPC will continue to run the business. 
 
 Analysts say apart from a new line of supply chain services, the acquisition will also add geography to TVS Logistics. SPC International has operations in the UK, France, Slovakia, the US and India and employs 350 people across these geographies. It offers hardware support with specialization in IT spares and repairs, supporting OEM and multi-vendor maintenance companies. SPC’s services and solutions include repair and refurbishment, remarketing, reselling, warranty management and inventory management (consigned and owned). Products offered include retail, banking, barcode and data collection, PCs, printers, and notebooks.
 
 Said R Dinesh, MD, TVS Logistics Services, “We started acquiring companies globally in search of knowledge, technology, innovations, and global best practices. SPC’s unique know-how can help us enhance our integrated services for our customers’ value chain”.
 
 TVS Logistics, which set up base in the UK in 2004, has invested around Rs 617 crore over the last decade and has grown from initially employing 10 persons in 2004, to now employing over 3500 people in the UK and in Europe. The company aims to add another 550 jobs without including acquisitions as it expands its business in the next five years.
 
 
