NOIDA: The central government is now officially a stakeholder in  .

 The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved the release of the Centre’s equity of Rs 1,000 crore for the 29.7-km   connecting Noida and Greater Noida, which has targeted a year-end finish.
 
 This money, about 20% of the total cost of Rs 5,503 crore, will be released to Noida Metro Rail Corporation in phases, the first of which will be in the next two months. 
 
 Amit Mohan Prasad, managing director (NMRC) and CEO of the  , said the proposal was cleared by finance minister Arun Jaitley after a presentation was made to him by urban development minister  . The proposal had been cleared by the finance ministry’s Public Investment Board (PIB) last October. 
 
 Once the cabinet approval is notified, the Uttar Pradesh government will sign a memorandum of understanding with the Centre. 
 
 “Both governments will release Rs 1,000 crore as per their equity share of 20% each,” said Prasad. 
 
 “An amount of Rs 1,587 crore, which is 30%, will come from the NCR Planning Board. We have already received Rs 580 crore of this loan amount, which was approved in February last year. The balance will be released for the corridor anytime now,” Prasad said. “The remaining 30% is being shared by the Noida and Greater Noida Authorities in ratio of 70:30,” he added. 
 
 Prasad said the Centre is expected to release the equity amount in three installments. “The first instalment of Rs 300 crore is expected to be released within the next two months. The second and the final instalments will also be released shortly after that,” he said. 
 
 Construction work of the Aqua line is moving at a fast pace. So far,  , which is building the corridor, has laid 24 km of the viaduct of the total 29.7 km. 
 
 DMRC has also started erecting overhead electrical lines and completed more than 12 km in Greater Noida. About 8km of rail track has also been laid so far along the route. Structural work of all 21 stations, including of the platforms, has been completed. The first station that will be completed, Sector 143, is likely to be ready in the next 15 days, officials said.
 
 
