KOCHI:   Pranab Mukherjee said that though the number of educational institutions in the country has increased manifold since independence,   are yet to become hubs of excellence. “They must reverberate with creativity and freethinking. They should promote free exchange of views and free expression of thought,” he said while delivering the 6th K S   Memorial Lecture on ‘India@70’ at the Le Meridian here on Thursday.

 “Can we put any restriction on this? Is it not our responsibility to correct this aberration? Those in universities must engage in reasoned discussions and debates rather than propagating a culture of unrest. It is tragic to see them caught in the vortex of violence and disquiet,” the President said.
 
 Taking a strong stance against the increasing fault lines in the country, the President called on the society to rise above  . “We have celebrated diversity. We have never attempted to constrain it, any attempt to replace diversity with uniformity has failed,” he said.
 
 Quoting Amartya Sen, he said, “It is always said that Indians are naturally argumentative, but we are not intolerant. Tolerance is our biggest virtue. India would not have remained as one entity if we were not tolerant.”
 
 He said that there should be no room in India for the intolerant ones. “India has been since ancient times a bastion of free thought, speech and expression. Our society has always been characterized by the open contest of diverse schools of thought and debate as well as discussion. Freedom of speech and expression is one of the fundamental rights guaranteed by our Constitution. There must be space for legitimate criticism and dissent,” he added.
 
 The President also said no country can call itself a civilisation if it does not respect women. “I do not consider a society or state to be civilised if its citizens’ behaviour towards women is uncivilised. When we brutalize a woman, we wound the soul of our civilisation. It is not the responsibility of the government alone or the lawmakers to tackle the issue of attacks on women, but also of the public-spirited individuals,” he said.
 
 Not only does our Constitution guarantee equal rights to women but our culture and tradition also celebrate the feminine as divine. Protection and safety of our women and children must be a nationwide priority. The acid test of any society is its attitude towards women and children. India should not fail this test, Mukherjee said.
 
 Calling on leaders and political activists to listen to the people, engage with them, learn from them and respond to their needs and concerns, the President said that the lawmakers must never take the people for granted. They must focus on the fundamental task of law making and raising of issues of concern to the people as well as finding solutions to their problems. No one who holds any elected office has been invited by the voters to occupy that office. Each one has gone to the voters and pleaded for their votes and support. The trust placed by the people in the political system and those elected should not be betrayed.
 
 The President said that time has come for collective efforts to rediscover the sense of national purpose and patriotism that alone can lift our nation on to the road of sustained progress and prosperity. The nation and the people must always come first.
 
 Among the dignitaries present on the occasion were Governor Justice P Sathasivam, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, acting chief justice Thottathil B Radhakrishnan, Rajya Sabha deputy chairman P J Kurien, leader of opposition Ramesh Chennithala, former chief minister Oommen Chandy and MP K V Thomas.
 
