AHMEDABAD: Family and loved ones of noted playwright, Tarak Mehta, who passed away on Wednesday, organized a ‘Hasyanjali’ at   on Sunday morning to mark his death. Mehta, who is best known for his Gujarati column, ‘Duniya Na Undha Chashma’, passed away at the age of 87 in Ahmedabad following a prolonged illness.

  Instead of a condolence meeting, his family members and loved ones believe that the real tribute to him will certainly be with humour as a celebration of his work and contribution to literature than merely mourning his loss. “We can’t say that he ‘passed away’, rather he ‘lives on’,” believe his loved ones.
 
 In fact, when people mourn the loss at a condolence meeting, they are clad in a white or pale and dull coloured attire. Contrarily, Mehta and his humour, will be fondly remembered and people will come in coloured attire.
 
 Explaining this, 66-year-old Mahesh Vakil, a retired real estate businessman from Surat for whom Mehta was a father-figure, said, “For a person like him, whose life was dedicated to humour, a condolence meeting is not possible. His daughter recently returned from the US and we discussed and decided to pay a creative tribute to him and remembering his contribution to the world than mourning his loss.”
 
 The concept of paying a befitting homage through art practice, although new and very much an individual choice, is being taken up by a lot of families in the city. In fact, activist and Indian classical dancer, Mallika Sarabhai paid a heartfelt tribute to her mother,   – renowned Indian classical dancer, by performing ‘Krishna Nee Begane Baro’, a popular Carnatic composition in praise of Lord Krishna.
 
 The kin of renowned playwright and theatre artist, Hasmukh Baradi, who passed away last month, also gave rituals a skip and rather remembered his work in fondness. “My father viewed the society from a very different perspective and he worked till the last day of his life. He got home a copy of a book of his works on the morning of the day when he passed away. We thus decided to organize a play-reading with excerpts of some of his works,” said Manvita Baradi, his daughter who is also the director of Theatre Media Centre.
 
 “Of course we would have been more than happier if he lived longer, but we don’t want to cry after him and instead celebrate his works and contribution to keep his memory alive,” she added.
 
