As a writer, one needs to get into the skin of his character if he wants to do justice to his work,   says. “My first parkaya pravesh (a spiritual term for, when a soul enters into another’s body) occurred during my school days when I wrote an essay. I literally felt the trauma and sufferings of the caged parrot who yearned for the wind beneath its wings, and brought it out in the essay,” she adds.
 
    has to her credit three collections of short stories, one collection of essays and a novel. Now a septuagenarian, she divides her time between managing her home in Margao, overseeing the affairs of the  , and writing. Kakodkar is credited with lending a new dimension to the art of short story writing that established her as one of the leading litterateurs in  .
  
  Ask her about her experiences growing up as a woman writer, Kakodkar says that recognition doesn’t differentiate between a man and a woman. “In the   (referring to the constellation as described in Vedic astronomy), there is a tiny star next to Vashisth, known as Arundhati. I was greatly interested in astronomy right from an early age. I remember asking my father, ‘Baba, why is Arundhati so tiny? Is it because she is a woman?’ My father replied, ‘There are so many stars in the constellation, but only Arundhati has got a name — that’s her identity. Anybody can get an identity, it doesn’t matter if you are a man or a woman.’ When I started getting recognition owing to my work, I knew I was on the way to getting an identity, and I instantly remembered Arundhati and my innocent query,” she reminisces.
  
  “Growing up,” Kakodkar says, “is a process, where people, culture and nature play a vital role in the formation of one’s personality. Growing up is also a journey where one gathers various incidents, experiences, which ultimately become memories — happy, sad, frustrating, fulfilling!”
  
  Born and raised in Palolem, the serene coastal village in South Goa, Kakodkar says that the village unfolded before her various moods, and the faces of mother nature, which slowly seeped into her psyche, embedded themselves in her stories.
  
  “The blue-green sea and the silvery beach of Palolem has acquired a certain dimension in my life. At dusk, when the cattle would return to their sheds with the jingling of bells, and when the birds would return frolicking to their nests, the twilight hours would seem to awaken for a moment; and when the day’s chores were over, silence would descend with the onset of night spreading its dark wings; the sea nearby with the gentle roar of its waves would seem to be singing lullabies to the sleeping village. This closeness with nature gave me a perspective to see beauty in the tiniest creature of nature. It is this very nature that brought hues and colours in my life,” Kakodkar says. That, perhaps, explains why one finds man and nature so inextricably woven in most of her works.
  
  Kakodkar says she learnt life’s toughest lessons through nature and its creations. A lover of animals, Kakodkar talks about her pet dog, Tommy, when she was a child. “My parents were very fond of animals and so was I,” she says. “My father was a skilled hunter and possessed a licensed gun. I must have been 8-9-years-old then when   contracted rabies. The only way then to prevent transmission of the disease was to kill the dog. The ‘paklo’ (as the Portuguese were referred to then), the dog-shooter, was informed. He came and mercilessly shot Tommy. Terrified on hearing the loud noise, I rushed out. Terror-struck, I stopped short of screaming. The ‘paklo’ was moving off, having done his job, and then there was Tommy, who, after falling down, instantly sprang to life. My father, losing no time, grabbed his rifle and shot Tommy dead. The dog who loved the family the most was shot dead by his own master. The tragic incident has remained imprinted in my memories,” Kakodkar says, her voice still choking all these many years later.
  
  But the irony of the situation, she adds, is that losing her dog taught her what she considers life’s most important lesson — to let go when the time comes.
