PATNA: The   into four different directions from   and touched various places across the state – 3007 km of   (main route) and 8,285 km of state highways (sub route). The government, however, claimed that the chain covered a distance of 11,415 km, 123 km more than the original target of 11,292 km. out
 
  The human chain which originated from gate number 1 of Gandhi Maidan passed through Fraser Road, Dak Bungalow crossing and Bailey Road before reaching   and Bihta. From Koelwar bridge, the chain headed towards Ara, Buxar, Chausa, Ramgarh, Mohania and Durgawati on the Bihar-Uttar Pradesh border. From Mohania, another branch of the chain joined those standing for the cause in Sasaram, Aurangabad, Jehanabad, Gaya, Dobhi and Barachhti on the Jharkhand border.
  
  The human chain which originated from gate number 7 of Gandhi Maidan passed through Ashok Rajpath, Deedarganj, Fatuha, Khuruspur and Mokama. From Mokama, various routes were formed through which the chain reached Raxaul, Sonbarsa, Jainagar, Laukahi and Birpur. One route from Mokama touched Dalkhola in West Bengal. It started from Mokama and touched Barauni, Begusarai, Khagaria, Naugachhia and Purnia. From Purnia, another route proceeded towards Thakurganj in Kishanganj district through Araria.
  
  The third human chain emerging from gate number 5 of Gandhi Maidan went up to   and merged with the chain at Danapur.
  
  The fourth chain originated from gate number 10 of Gandhi Maidan and went up to Gandhi Setu via Exhibition Road flyover, Kankarbagh, Old Bypass and Zero Mile. From Gandhi Setu, the chain headed towards Hajipur and two routes emerged from Hajipur. One proceeded towards Bathnakutti in Gopalganj district through Chhapra and Siwan and another towards Sonbarsa. One chain from Hajipur reached Raxaul via Muzaffarpur, Piprakothi, Motihari and Sugauli. From Sugauli, one chain diverted towards Mangalpur in West Champaran via Bettiah.
  
  From Zero Mile, another chain moved towards Bakhtiyarpur and later diverted into two different directions. One went up to Rajauli in Nawada via Biharsharif. From Biharsharif, another route diverted towards Jamui via Sheikhpura and Lakhisarai. Another route from Bakhtiyarpur went up to Banka via Mokama, Lakhisarai, Munger, Sultanganj and Asarganj. From Sultanganj, one chain finally reached Bhagalpur.
  
  Another route from Bailey road turned towards Phulwarisharif and touched Arwal via Naubatpur, Bikram, Dulhin Bazar and Paliganj. From Arwal, one chain moved towards the chain coming from Jehanabad and got emerged with it before reaching Barachatti.
