

 Joygopal Podder, a writer of thrillers, once sought the life of Ruskin Bond (cosy corner in the mountains and all). But he found that life right here, in Gurgaon. A place of his own kept him connected to the world, while the rolling terrain of the Gurgaon-Faridabad Road (and the little appreciated beauty of this stretch) allowed him to dream, reminding him of the heights of Mussoorie. Despite the occasional difficulty – a lack of phones necessitating a move back to Delhi, when wife   was expecting their first child – all challenges were met with confidence. Even Summer Fields, New Gurgaon’s only school back then, worked out rather well for daughters Panvi and Piya. And Joygopal himself will always have the privilege of being among the first 100 residents of New Gurgaon.
 
 
 
 
 Even before NH-8 was built, I was travelling the single lane to reach the airport, because I had to travel regularly on work. In fact, mine was probably one of the first cars on the highway!
 
 I was working as a sales manager for Godrej Soaps then, and was looking after the Haryana market, which is how I came to discover Gurgaon, back in 1987. I moved here in March 1988.
 
 For work, I would go to Sadar Bazar, and then on to Faridabad. Taking the road to Faridabad felt like driving to Mussoorie. I would stop the car and drink in the views of the Aravali hills — then I’d go to Faridabad and sell soaps! I ended up going there more times than I had to! That’s when I decided to buy a house in Gurgaon.
 
 When you came here, the first thing you did was start gardening — because you moved from a cramped Delhi flat, where you didn’t know what a garden was!
 
 
 
 
 On weekends, I’d spend the mornings gardening and the evenings partying — for socialising, I’d go to Delhi (that’s how I met Priti).
 
 Those days, we used to do a lot of driving. In the early 1990s, we’d go to the Sohna springs complex, up the hill, a drive we enjoyed. And I’d cut across to the smaller places, like Tauru, for my work.
 
 The views on the Gurgaon-Faridabad Road were fabulous. I was living next to greenery, next to hills and valleys, and here I would come whenever I needed inspiration. I had my profession, and I had this. In an hour, I could be in Delhi, yet I was a stone’s throw away from the lap of nature.
 
 
 
 
 Some weekends, our Delhi friends would come to Gurgaon, and together we’d go off to Faridabad, for boating and for picnics. After that, they would return to Delhi while we’d head back home.
 
 Here in Gurgaon, there was a great community atmosphere – we would invite each other over, have meals together, and spend quality time together. Even after almost 30 years, that neighbourhood feeling is very much there, and we still gather for flag hoisting and plantation drives, and for Holi and Diwali.
 
 
 
 
 The transition from a small, rural town in the back of beyond to one of the most happening places in the country, happened in the blink of an eye. And the only time we felt like leaving was when Gurgaon became one big construction site. That transition period I didn’t like so much, and we did consider shifting to Dehradun – but we realised we had it all here.
 
 
 
 
 Our social life has travelled in the reverse direction. And our jobs are here, our daughters are here, our friends are here. I loved the good old days – they were fantastic, and I have a lot of fond memories of those days. And I love it now, having the best of all worlds. The Aravalis are still around, Sohna is still there, the Sultanpur bird sanctuary is still there.
 
 
