Mumbai: India’s   programmes are usually believed to be poorly planned and shoddily implemented. But a new study that analysed Indian   says that India — faced with a plethora of challenges — is actually offering lessons across the world, and particularly to the US. 

 The other surprising finding is that instead of disrupting the government, about 80% of these organisations that were studied seek to collaborate with it to reach out to the socially and economically challenged population.
 
 The study done by philanthropy advisory Bridgespan Group, published in Stanford Social Innovation Review, says there may not be a better lab than India for studying the challenges non-profits face in trying to scale up, while stretched for resources.
 
 “Close to 80% of Indian organisations we studied apply the collaborative mindset with government institutions — the most prevalent,” said Soumitra Pandey, co-author of the study and partner, Bridgespan. “They seek either to fill gaps in existing programmes, like Akshaya Patra’s assistance with providing midday meals to school children, or to spur innovation by example (Agastya’s hands-on learning programmes in science, technology, engineering and math delivered to government schools by van or motorcycle).”
 
 Bridgespan studied 20 Indian non-profit organisations, including Aravind Eye Care, EducateGirls, Karuna Trust, Mamta Health Institute, Pratham, SEWA, Gram Vikas and Goonj, that have deftly managed the tension between scale and scarcity. It identified five recurring mindsets that India’s non-profit leaders use to maximise outreach and assist millions of people in need.
 
 The first was the denominator mindset: When thinking about a non-profit’s impact as a fraction, the denominator repr-esents the total size of the need, and numerator the quantity of need that the non-profit is currently meeting. Many Indian non-profits use denominator thinking to stay focused on addressing the total size of the need, rather than perfecting a solution that serves relatively few. 
 
 The second was the dignity mindset: Elevating the humanity of each participant is critical when confronted with addressing the needs of millions. Many of India’s non-profits focus on preserving an individual’s dignity in an effort to avoid reducing and compartmentalising the human experience into numbers on a spreadsheet.
 
 The third was the radical frugality mindset: When scarcity abounds, most Indian non-profits not only focus on reducing costs, but find ways of using frugality to scale up. They optimise operational expenses and rein in expenditures, while ensuring that no cuts are made in areas that might starve innovation.
 
 The fourth was the innovative hiring mindset: One of the biggest impediments to a non-profit’s growth in India is the scarcity of people who have the right skills to fill certain types of jobs. Some non-profits have responded by searching for people in overlooked but promising corners of the talent pool.
 
 The fifth and final was the collaborative mindset: While would-be innovators in Western countries tend to focus more on “disrupting the system” or “thinking outside the box”, many of India’s larger non-profits have sought to innovate within the system, and make government a vital ally.
 
 More often than not, the leaders of non-profits ensure their organisations’ roles map closely to the government’s. Their logic: The more they mirror the government’s structure, the easier it will be to build productive partnerships.
 
 Interestingly, some of the mindsets fuelling growth for Indian   are important food for thought for the US social sector, where change tends to start in pilot projects, smaller increments, versus thinking first of the denominator of total need, Bridgespan partner Rohit Menezes, co-author of the study, told TOI.
 
 “But one mindset, radical frugality, already is taking hold (in the US). In one example, a long-standing but relatively costly clinical prevention programme for diabetes is radically lowering its costs by moving sessions to community-based organisations, like the YMCA, that see youth frequently and can reinforce behaviour change, or to online-supported treatment,” he adds. 
 
 In another example, US non-profit College Summit, which helps low-income youth gain access to college and post-secondary degrees, recently lowered the cost of its programme through technology, which allowed increase to reach sixfold.
 
 
