Sopana Sangeetham artiste   has never chained his   to the confines of tradition or the steps of a temple. 

 Taking the art form to the masses, he has cruised ahead on the road paved by his illustrious father, idakka exponent  .
 The 41-year-old, who recently bagged the Kerala Sangeetha Nataka Akademi Award doesn’t restrict himself to the world of sopana sangeetham, either. 
 
 For a while now, he is more of a messiah of Kerala music than just being an instrumentalist.   music festival, which is his effort to give a stage for the various Kerala music varieties, was held in December 2016, on the banks of River Nila. As Harigovindan gears up for the next edition of the fest in a few months, he has a lot more plans up his sleeve. In conversation with the artiste about Kerala’s musical heritage, what led to its existence in obscurity and more: 
 
 
 
 “Every time Kerala’s history of classical music is discussed, a non-native Carnatic music and its Malayali practitioners are what we talk about. Our music fests, for over a century, have also been focussing on Carnatic music and nobody thought or studied about our own paattu. Even Kerala Kalamandalam never gave space to the native schools or forms of vocal and instrumental music,” explains the artiste, referring to vanchipaattu, pulluvanpaattu, koithupaattu, kalamezhuthu paattu, maappilapaattu, vadakkanpaattu, godamooripaattu, mulasangeetham, mizhavilthayambaka and ayyappan paatu to name a few.
 
 The artiste, who had authored a book named Kerala Sangeetham – Kettathum Kelkkendathum, says, “Just as how the genres of Carnatic or Hindustani is a totality of compositions and derivations by many people, so is Kerala music.”
 When Kerala Folklore Academy was instituted, it started reviving Kerala’s own varieties, but by calling them nadodi sangeetham and not giving them a classical status.
 
 While it is commonly perceived that to be called classical, it should be a form of standardised music with a set syllabus, rich lyrics, ragas, rhythm patterns and scientific rules, Harigovindan begs to differ.
 
 “The actual meaning of classical is something that withstood the test of time. Haven’t our paattu forms also done the same?” he asks.
 
 
 
 The State’s paattu forms often emerged, naturally, from the sections that toiled hard on the land, revolted and endured a variety of hardships, he says. “If you analyse, all of our so-called classical art forms have a brahminical background and they are never revolutionary in tone. Secondly, they were so out of the mainstream that people hardly knew about them and continued consuming the commonly available classical forms that never contributed much to social changes. It was an act of silencing the music of 95% of the society,” he explains.
 Another reason is that they were linked to work as well. “Without krishi, there would be no krishipaattu and without koithu, there is no koithupaattu, for instance. Governments try to retain the music alone, through folklore academy, maappilakala academy 
 or even Kalama-ndalam but then, there are instances of people showcasing music that has no elements of the original,” the artiste says.
 To protect the uniqueness of the original, Harigovind calls his music harigovinda geetham and not sopana sangeetham. “This way I don’t end up tricking people into believing my evolved music as its true sound,” he says.
 
 
 
 When his dad tried to propagate sopana sangeetham, people had a disinterest accept him as a musician or even a human being, says Harigovind. “He being someone detached from materialistic gains, it never bothered him. However, I was pained to see how people never understood either him or the native music he was advocating. When my dad, whose art form was temple-centric had to face it, think about the plight of a pulluvanpaattu musician or naayadi musician… I have seen people shooing them away.”
 
 This urged him to hold the first ever Paattolam festival, a  , last year. “I was quite moved when a kalamezhuthu paattu musician and a naayadi musician said it’s for the first time someone ever gave me such a stage or respect, and how much it touched them. This year, I want to pave way for more like them, into the mainstream,” the determined musician affirms.
 
 
 
 For the first time ever in Kerala budget, this year, money is allocated to hold a music festival, which is Paattolam. “I am not someone with any kind of political influence, and just tried to do my bit for our music by meeting our Finance Minister. He allocated `15 lakh to hold the fest. Not only do I want to give a stage to our native musicians, I also want to ensure that a time comes when they make reasonable income to survive and respect, through their art forms. Or else, it’s all a pointless exercise.”
 
 The second edition, he says, would be expansive in terms of the content. “We presented only about 50 paattu forms the last time. This time, we would be also showcasing more, like villinmel thayambaka and mulamchenda. I want to showcase at least 100 forms this time, though there are constraints of time and funds.”
 
