You could protest, you could write open letters, or you could start an online petition. Or, you could groove to drive change! A group of dance enthusiasts are using their art as a tool to campaign for inclusivity in society. They’ve flagged off a project to break stereotypes, by not just swaying to pop songs, but also reclaiming their narratives. And they’ve started off with one that many hail as a cult number...

 
 
 How often have you heard a song, loved it, and then watched the video to find little connect between the lyrics and the visuals? That’s what Hina Siddiqui felt with English singer-songwriter Ed Sheeran’s hit, Shape of You (the official video has garnered over 934,739,150 views since its release on January 30). 
 The theatre practitioner says, “For me, the song speaks about falling in love with the shape of someone, whatever it may be. But when I saw the official video later, the visuals seemed to convey something quite contrary – men and women having perfect bodies, and physical prowess.” 
 Miffed, Hina decided to look at the meaning of the hit differently; perhaps turn it on its head altogether. “Why not reuse the song’s lyrics to convey a message, that anyone can dance, irrespective of their body type, sexual orientation, age or personal challenges?” she asks.
 Over 17 people – of different shapes, sizes and ages – got together for the sheer love of dancing to do their version of the song, the video of which will be released on social media soon.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 The song was shot over four days early in April. The group chose  , an old heritage hotel-turned-art studio in Camp, as the setting, mainly for its treasure of experimental spaces. 
 Irisha Poonawalla, who choreographed the dance, recalls, “We had little time to prepare, so we got together friends and known people. Right at the onset, it was important for the participants to know what we are trying to get across through the video.” Though she choreographed a whole bunch of steps, the group didn't use any of them. It was organic, with each one pitching in with their own steps.
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 A mix of students, dancers, mums and even those who are differently-abled, feature in the video that comprises a 
 montage of interesting shots. Dancing like nobody’s watching, they totally own the hotel, its long corridors and cosy rooms included, with complete abandon.
 Sweta Mantrii, who works for disability rights, was happy to be part of the project. She says, “As a community representative, it felt great to get involved. I love dance, so though I’m differently-abled, I wasn’t uncomfortable.” It’s important to embrace one’s differences and enjoy doing things differently, she says. Sweta was joined by 20-year-old Akash Pawar, a differently-abled student of EKansh Trust, whose steps were something swagger for sure.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 This project comes under the aegis of Project Beard, an initiative to get   and mainstream individuals to tell their stories, bringing alternative narratives to the fore. Hina says, “Queer isn’t just about one’s sexuality anymore. It’s also about breaking away from the binary system – heterosexual-homosexual, abled-disabled, and so on.” 
 The plan is to take the initiative forward by relooking at the narratives of more songs. The next track might be from 'Ae Dil Hai Mushkil'. Hina tells us, “I realised that the lyrics of the song aren’t about love, but about harmony and fraternity. We hope to work with Pune’s African student community on our next. But we are yet to come up with something more conceptual,” she says.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Shape of You (Official Video)
  
  
 Pictures by Shashank Sane
