NEW DELHI: Terming him as a Chanakya, who is hailed worldwide for his aggressive election strategy,   chief minister   on Sunday said   president   has also been guiding him on some major governance issues of the state like law and order, size of the state’s budget and the record wheat procurement.
 
  Shah in turn termed Yogi as a “very popular” chief minister and said he was sure that Yogi would pull UP out of its ‘Bimaru’ status in five years and put UP on the path of double-digit growth.
  
  “Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan have done it. We were also on the right path in Bihar till a small blip had come but three days ago that has corrected too. The Narendra Modi government has launched 106 schemes for the benefit of people.
  
  Till now people of UP were not able to benefit from them as the ‘transformer’ was lying burnt in UP under the former   government.
  
  Now Yogi Adityanath has repaired that transformer and will bring all these 106 schemes to UP,” Shah said, addressing a meeting of intellectuals in the presence of the chief minister in Lucknow.
  
  The BJP president is on a three-day trip to Lucknow as part of his 110-day journey to all states of the country. The CM on Sunday said both in 2014 as the in-charge of UP and in 2017 as the BJP president, Amit Shah had told him that BJP will cross 65 seats in UP in the 2014 Lok Sabha polls and 300 seats in the 2017 state elections. “He is a Chanakya of electoral strategy. But Amit Shah also has a long 12-year experience in government – so we seek guidance from him regarding the state,” Yogi said on Sunday.
  
  The CM revealed that Shah had advised him that the size of the state’s budget should be commensurate to its huge population so that basic facilities of water, electricity, roads and education reach the people. “Hence the state’s budget this time is the biggest ever – `3.84 lakh crore. I had also discussed with him about the atmosphere of insecurity in the state due to jungle-raj, lack of investment and migration.
  
  Shah told me not to be worried about crime figures and just ensure 100% registration of FIRs and punishment to criminals without any bias. He said if we do this, UP will soon be one of the most secure states in the country,” chief minister said at the intellectuals meet.
  
  Yogi also said he was also “extremely worried” in March on how the state will do record wheat procurement as promised in its manifesto as the state had no preparation for it and he had sought Shah’s help who advised him to set up a small team of ministers and officers and put in place a software system. “Due to the guidance we got, UP did a record 37 lakh metric tonnes of procurement directly from farmers,” Yogi said.
  
  Earlier in the day, Shah and the CM had lunch at the house of a Yadav supporter of the party. 
