PUNE: Travel companies in the city have advised tourists heading to   to carry proper documentation such as overseas medical insurance and at least US$700 with an invoice proving the ownership of the sum, among other specifications after 15 tourists from the state were deported from Bangkok recently.

 Speaking to TOI, the tourists as well as officials of the city-based travel company which organised the tour alleged that they were subjected to shoddy treatment and interrogation at the Suvarnabhumi Airport in Bangkok. They were kept in a small, unventilated room for an entire night, without food and water, before being sent back to India the next morning.
 
 The travel firm,  , took a group of 11 businessmen to Bangkok on an incentive tour on March 3. Vikas Agrawal, director of the firm, who was also the tour’s group leader, said, “Even before we could reach the immigration counter at the Suvarnabhumi Airport, we were stopped and questioned by the Thai immigration authorities about the number of people travelling in the group, the purpose of our visit and which hotel we planned to stay in, among other things.”
 
 Agrawal said that after being grilled for two hours, the group was lodged in a small room for the night without being given a reason. 
 
 “We had all the valid   — US$700, its receipts, confirmed hotel bookings and return tickets, among other documents. We were not given food or water during the night in that room, and were sent back to India by an early morning flight on March 4 with a ‘deported’ stamp on the passport,” Agrawal said.
 
 Raju Parande, who was part of the group, said that several of them were were carrying the mandatory US$ 700 while the remaining had even more money than that. 
 
 “We showed the receipts to the immigration authorities but they would not listen,” Parande said.
 
 Another tourist, Kalyan Barahate, said the monetary loss per person was Rs 36,000, including expenses incurred on hotel pre-booking, sightseeing as well as the airfare. “They also charged US$160 for the room we were kept in for the night,” he alleged.
 
 Rahul Shivalkar, a working professional from Pune, who had a similar experience when he had gone to Bangkok with three friends in February, said, “Each of us had credit cards as well as a total of 35,000 Thai baht. The authorities made us sit in a room which had several Indians. They sent us back to India the next morning, citing insufficient funds as the reason for  .”
 
 Authorities from the Royal Thai Consulate-General in Mumbai refused to comment on the matter, saying they would first need to see the visas of the deported tourists. “Visa is a prima facie document that the traveller must have, apart from sufficient funds of at least US$700 and hotel bookings, among other requirements. The tourists who were deported will need to send us an official letter to the effect, after which we will look into the matter,” an official said.
 
 G Krishna, chairman of the Pune Chapter of the   (TAAI), said, “The incident was reported to TAAI recently and we are examining why this happened and how it can be prevented in future.”
 
 Other travel firm directors, meanwhile, advised tourists to carry all necessary documents while travelling to Thailand. 
 
 “Immigration authorities in several countries are becoming very strict. Apart from the necessary funds, travellers should ensure their passports are not damaged and they do not have criminal or overstay records. Also, when questioned by the Thai immigration authorities, groups should make sure that their tour leader does the talking due to language barriers,” said Zelam Chaubal, director of Kesari Tours Private Limited.
 
