NAGPUR:   founded, under the aegis of  , has been awarded ‘A+’ grade by   (NAAC) in the 3rd cycle of its re-accreditation recently.

 It is the only college in the field of social work in Maharashtra to have achieved ‘A+’ status. Also, it also the only social work college in the country that has been recognized as an institute with ‘potential for excellence’ by UGC.
 
 During a press conference at the college,   said, “It is indeed a matter of great pride that we have completed 50 years of fruitful existence. Around 3,000 students have passed out from our college so far and the quality of performance in them has been consistent. They are scattered in various fields and are practically implementing their knowledge to benefit the society.” 
 
 He said the name of college has been empanelled for evaluation of government scheme of Maharashtra. It has also entered into MoUs with Fire and Security Association of India (FSAI), ANACONLAB Nagpur and government of Maharashtra for evaluation. The authorities have prepared a proposal for its autonomy, which will be submitted to UGC. 
 
 The college was established in 1966 by former deputy chief minister Nashikrao Tirpude with an aim to impart quality education in the field of social work for uplifting weaker section of the society, said members of college management. 
 
 They said a ‘Sahyog’ cluster has been formed in collaboration with nine other social work colleges under Nagpur University to share the curricular, co-curricular and others CSR activities by organizing intercollegiate sport, cultural and academic events such as seminars, workshops, conferences and research meets. 
 
 The college has organized 12 seminars on various social issues such as farmer suicides, disaster management, sustainable developmental goals, water security, pre-marriage counselling, infatuation, etc on which six books have been published.
 
 Internal Quality Assurance Cell coordinator Swati Dharmadhikar, faculty and management members Parag Bombatkar, Aruna Gajbhiye, Manish Deshmukh, ST Hunge, Shilpa Jibhenkar, Baba Kombade and Shikha Maitra were also present.
 
