When 150 Doonites stepped out of their homes at 12 in the night to take part in a walk to Mussoorie, they thought that this would be the most peaceful experience of their life as they will enjoy the journey without facing any congestion on the road. But, much to their surprise, even at that late hour, the Mussoorie road was packed with  , many of who were playing loud music in their cars. The walk, which was organized by the group,   (BTDT), was a one of a kind of experience for Doonites but most of them were left disturbed by the unruly behaviour of the tourists.

 
 
 
 Aditi, a resident of Rajpur Road, says, "I have come to Mussoorie so many times but the idea to walk to the city with a bunch of 150 people and too at night, excited me. I got to know about the history of Methodist Church and the Picture Palace, which was established in 1909 and is one of the oldest cinema in India at this event. Though I thoroughly enjoyed the walk, the behaviour of tourists, who were passing us, left me disturbed. Most of them were drunk and they played loud music in their cars. I also saw a group of youngsters who were sloshed and they were dancing like crazies in the middle of the road. I understand that people come to hills to enjoy but they shouldn’t spoil the tranquility of the place."
 
  
  
 
 
  Lokesh Ohri, founder of BTDT, and the walk leader said, "I organized this walk thinking that there will be no traffic at night and it would be a peaceful experience. On the contrary, Mussoorie road was packed with tourists cars and the way they behaved was just disappointing. They littered on their way and playing loud music. Even the   was overcrowded and people were dancing there on loud music. They just ruined the peaceful ambience of the place. I am not against tourism but the rowdy behaviour must be checked."
  
 
 
  Shreyansh Kala, a young walker from Rajpur Road, says, "Walking all the way to Mussoorie is one-of-its-kind experience. It was as if one is walking amidst clouds. I also learnt a lot about the   of the both the cities at this event. Since I was with my friends and we were busy enjoying with each other, the influx of tourists didn’t bother me much. But it would surely have been a more pleasant experience if there were fewer cars on the road."
 
 
 
 
  Aayush Lonial, a photographer from Mussoorie Road, says, "The usual practice is to walk to Mussoorie during the early morning hours but for people like me, who hates to get up early morning, this event was a perfect opportunity. I had participated in the walk with an image that at night roads will be empty and we would walk peacefully under the stars but, to my surprise, the road saw a lot of tourists from Delhi, Haryana, and Punjab, and they spoilt the peaceful ambience with loud music. Many of them were drunk, creating unwanted noise. As a photographer, there was a lot that could be captured and explored during the night, but my mood was just spoilt seeing these people creating a ruckus."
 
 --- Akshita.Vohra@timesgroup.com
 
 
