HYDERABAD: A 32-year-old woman along with her two children, aged seven and six, committed suicide by lying on the railway tracks at Malkajgiri on Saturday morning.The children were clad in school uniform.

 The bodies of the trio__N Gowramma (32), Nagaraju (7) and Sai Teja (6)__were found on the tracks, about 1.5 km from the Malkajgiri railway station. During investigation, the   (GRP), Secunderabad, learnt that the three, residents of Manikonda, took their lives by lying on the tracks. The Manikonda woman, who commited suicide on the railway track along with her two children early on Saturday, did not leave a suicide note. Identity cards of Vishwabharati High School, Bandlaguda, found at the spot helped cops establish the identity of the deceased.
 
 Around 8.15 am, a locomotive pilot, who was heading to wards Malkajgiri from Secunderabad, spotted the bodies and informed the staff of the nearby railway station. The railmen at the station in turn alerted the Government Railway Police.
 
 “When our personnel went to the site, they found three bodies on the tracks with their faces smashed beyond recognition. As the children were dressed in school uniform, we suspect they might have resorted to the extreme step in the morning hours,“ GRP, Sec underabad, inspector A Anjenayulu said. During preliminary investigation, police found that the woman used to be harassed regularly by her alcoholic husband, Bandalaiah.“The victim`s husband is an alcoholic. He used to ha rass her for money.We suspect harassment might have driven her to the extreme step,“ the GRP inspector said. Gowramma, a resident of Pup palguda, used to work as a domestic help at Green Space Sigma Apartments. “I was aware of her ordeal. That is why she gave our contact numbers for emergency reference to the school," D Mandlika, a resident of the Sigma apartment, told STOI.
 
 The bodies were shifted to Osmania Hospital for post-mortem and later were handed over to the family. A case was registered under section 174 (suspicious death) of the Criminal Procedure Code .
 
