LUCKNOW: Less than an hour after officially announcing a pre-poll alliance with the Samajwadi Party in Uttar Pradesh, the Congress released a list of 41 candidates for the first and second phases of UP polls on February 11 and 15, respectively. The AICC Chief Election Committee later also released two additional names of   from Saharanpur and   from Chandrapur. 

 With the exception of Maviya Ali from Deoband, while all incumbent Congress MLAs will contest again, the Congress also announced the candidature of former Union minister and Dhaurahra MP Jitin Prasada from Tilhar assembly constituency in Shahjahanpur. 
 
 TOI was the first to report that the Congress leadership was considering asking its former MPs, those who had lost the Lok Sabha polls in 2014, to contest the assembly polls in 2017. The move, insiders said, was not only aimed at ramping up INC numbers in the UP legislature, but also testing individuals’ electoral strength in an election that is known to need considerably more ground work than Lok Sabha elections. Sources said 
 Congress’ first list has its share of controversial and questionable candidatures as well. Despite deciding to follow a one-family-one-ticket policy in ticket distribution across states this time, Congress has flouted its own rule to import and accommodate  , from Haryana, on the Shikarpur assembly seat in Bulandshahr. Dalal, from Haryana, is the son of former minister and sitting Palwal MLA Karan Dalal, also a close aide of Haryana CM Bhupinder Hooda. With no local connect, Dalal’s candidature is believed to have caused considerable uproar within the local Congress circles. 
 
 The party has also decided to field Saif Ali Naqvi, former MP Zafar Ali Naqvi’s son from Palia in Lakhimpur Kheri. In this case, however, only the son has been accommodated. 
 
 With Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) edged out the SP-Congress pre-poll alliance, the Congress has also bagged the RLD’s share of assembly seats. Congress has fielded former Samajwadi Party leader Kuldip Ujjwal in Ajit Singh’s stronghold of Baghpat. 
 
 Ujjwal, who enjoyed a cabinet rank in the SP government, had an infamous run in with the Bagpat administration. Ujjwal had engaged in an abusive telephone conversation with the Baghpat DM tapes of which had later been leaked, leading to his sacking from the SP government.
 
 While the Congress’s list has accommodated 9 Muslim candidates for the West UP belt, the most prominent among the lot is Imran Masood, the party’s minority face who shot to fame for his incendiary remarks against Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Despite his controversial statements, Congress vice president Rahul Gandhi had visited Masood in Saharanpur, and the party had later also elevated him to the rank of vice president. Masood’s candidature, it is widely believed, will not only polarise the minority votes in favour of the Congress, but will also benefit the Samajwadi party in a region easily divided on communal lines. 
 
 Representatives of the Youth Congress and the National Student’s Union of India, Congress’ youth wings remained conspicuous by their absence in Sunday’s list. 
 
