THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: SIDCO’s reported indifference to   scheme has forced the city corporation to take its own course. The civic body will introduce 5,000 LED lights instead of tubelights for new street light connections in selected wards. Tenders will be opened in April and installation will be carried out by KSEB. The introduction of LED lights is being done at a cost of Rs 1.6 crore. The suppliers will have to ensure three year   and three year warranty.

 Besides, corporation will replace 200 unserviceable lights in each ward with LED lights and orders have been placed for 20,000 LED lights. These lights will replace damaged ones in wards and KSEB has been entrusted with the task of installation.
 
 The delay in switching over to cost and energy efficient LED   has been taking a toll on corporation’s fragile finances. In 2016, the city corporation spent Rs 18 crore; the biggest ever amount as   for street lights. Over the last five years, the electricity bills for street lights have never crossed Rs 15 crore which has now risen to Rs 18 crore.
 
 The finance standing committee expects that the bills will touch Rs 20 crore this year. Officials point out that corporation could have saved this money had LED scheme been implemented at least by 2015. The maintenance cost of street lights has also been on the rise. The corporation shells out Rs 1.2-1.5 crore every year for various maintenance works including replacement of lamps and electric poles.
 
 In 2016, just before the new LDF government assumed power, the department of urban affairs sent a communication to the city corporation saying that the civic body is free to decide on its own regarding LED project. 
 
 Even after getting the nod from the government, the project has not moved an inch, forcing corporation to set aside huge amount in terms of power bills and maintenance costs. Corporation officials said that SIDCO, even after going through a lengthy procedure involving expression of interests recently, sent a seemingly ridiculous letter asking about the specification of LED lights. Although a meeting was convened,   failed to convince corporation and is learnt to have requested for 2-3 months to implement the scheme. The ruling council did not encourage the request and decided to get on with the scheme.
 
 It is learnt that a final meeting with SIDCO is scheduled in April. Corporation officials said that if things don’t work out with SIDCO, corporation will go for open tender directly without involving any intermediaries.
 
 
