AHMEDABAD: The Rs 56,000 crore liquor business in India prevents state governments from banning booze, alleged activist   while starting the second leg of the ‘Nasha-mukt Bharat Andolan Rashtriya Yatra’, from the Sabarmati Ashram. The rally will culminate at Rajghat on January 30, the Martyr’s Day, after covering Gujarat, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi. The first leg of the yatra kicked off from Kanyakumari in October last year, covering the southern states. The yatra drew participants from Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir, and Gujarat.

  Talking to TOI, Patkar said that the implementation of prohibition requires a strong Act and political will. “Gujarat is an example where the lack of political will has not enabled society to get the law implemented,” she said. “Social will is also necessary. We have studied various state laws and have proposed changes. Gujarat, Rajasthan, and Madhya Pradesh are examples of states with weak anti-liquor laws.” 
 
 Commenting on the lauded Bihar law, Patkar said that some of the clauses were “very strong”. “One cannot punish the entire family for a drunkard or upon finding a few bottles. Such extreme steps are anti-human,” she said. Organizers from the National Alliance of People’s Movements (NAPM) said that participants visited IIT-Gandhinagar campus on Monday afternoon and held a dialogue with students and intellectuals. The aim was to integrate youth in disseminating effective message against addictions as the most vulnerable are the poor. Teams also visited parts of Ahmedabad city including Bapunagar before starting off for Himmatnagar. V R Patil, a participant from Karnataka, said that the movement was started by people in various states. “Mahatma Gandhi’s ideas on prohibition are still relevant,” he said.
 
 Sunilam, an activist from Madhya Pradesh, said that a survey in MP revealed that the poor are spending nearly Rs 3,000 every month on liquor. “It also revealed that liquor was behind the majority of cases of domestic violence and sexual abuse,” he said. “In states like Tamil Nadu, people have died fighting for the cause. That has forced the state machinery to think about the issue.” The participants also linked safety and prosperity with liquor ban, citing the Gujarat example. Sources said that the participants wanted to meet the leaders of the anti-liquor movement in Gujarat. The participants said that women in parts of Bapunagar alleged that liquor consumption and sale were common in their area.
 
