NOIDA: Homebuyers of stalled project IRIDIA at sector 86 Noida today took out a protest march and submitted a deputation with the district magistrate of Gautam Budh Nagar, BK Singh seeking his intervention in resolving a long standing dispute related to the land acquisition of the project.

 Launched in 2012, IRIDIA was established on an abadi land purchased by  , from local farmers. The project was built by engaging private builders, Horizon Buildcon. The project was stalled by Noida authority as it challenged the land acquisition process by the promoters who had directly purchased the plot from farmers. 
 
 The project which has over 720 flats, has about 600 buyers who have paid up over 80% for their flats. The project was approved by the State Bank of India.
  
 “We have asked the district magistrate to help us resolve the matter. In a memorandum sent to chief minister  , we have demanded possession of the project post completion or return of investment with interest,”  , a buyer, said.
 
 Commenting on the meeting, DM, BK Singh said, “The buyers have given us a representation of the issue. We will take it up with Noida Authority,” Singh told TOI.
 
 “Following Noida authority’s objection, the matter has been reviewed by the Allahabad High Court. The high court in an order in 2013 has asked the state government to review the issue since all maps were sanctioned by the district administration. The decision for the same in pending at the principal secretary’s office in Lucknow. The project has been on a stand still since September 2014,” Pankaj Lunia, legal spokesperson for Kaveri Sahkari Awas Samiti, the promoters of the project, said.
  
 “Over 14 floors were constructed with due knowledge of Noida Authority, when the project was suddenly brought to a halt by the Authority, deeming it illegal. What will the buyers do in such a situation?”  , general secretary, Nefowa (Noida Extension Flat Owners Welfare Association) said. Nefowa led the protest.
  
 “For the past three years, they have been running from pillar to post submitting complaints with the PMO, UP government, Noida police and others. Legal cases are pending at the Economic Offence Wing (EOW) and National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission (NCDRC),” Abhishek Kumar, president Nefowa, added.
 
