CHENNAI: The miniature dolls for   are making a big hole in the pockets of people and cutting into profits of makers, as handicrafts are now included under goods and services tax (GST).   on paint and material costs has driven up the cost of dolls to anything between 12% and 40%. 

 Consumers in turn are purchasing smaller dolls to stick to their budgets. Orders from other states and overseas have also reduced significantly, owing to GST and increased courier charges, say sellers. It is the golu doll makers and vendors who are getting a raw deal. For street vendors, customers tend to bargain and the sellers cannot maintain the margins. "A product worth `500 costs much more but as customers are not willing to pay extra, we end up selling the products with a low margin or at a loss. We need to reduce prices to break even, or we will end up losing the few customers we have," said Vani S from Triplicane.
 
 Saravana Kumar from Coimbatore, who had sold dolls worth more than `24 lakh last year, was looking to rake in `30 lakh this time, but GST and lack of customer interest are playing spoilsport. 
 
 There is a uniform 10% to 15% increase in the price of dolls. But customers, who usually purchase sets and bigger dolls are thinking twice as a 10% hike will impact their overall budget. So those who buy single dolls are ending up buying fewer," he said. 
 
 Online golu vendors who ship abroad are seeing a dip of around 20% in the number of orders. With 20% GST on couriers and 12% on handicrafts, shipping abroad has become costlier, with the overall costs going up to 40%. "A set that earlier cost `25,000 is now priced at `34,000. So customers are either refraining from purchasing or eyeing cheaper ones as compared to last year," said Siddharth S, director, Vikud.com. 
 
 To ease the customers’ suffering, the   government-run Poompuhar corporation has reduced its margin slightly to offer slightly discounted prices. "Prices have gone up due to GST, but for consumers it will be a marginal increase to ensure enough sale. For instance, if a product cost `100 last year it now costs `112 but we are keeping the rate at `105, to benefit both the parties," said Santhosh Babu, chairman and managing director, Poompuhar.
 
