Visakhapatnam: With Anandapuram police registering a land grabbing case against ruling party MLA   Govinda Satyanarayana, representing Anakapalli, in the late hours of Friday, the land scam probe taken up by SIT has turned the case on its head.

 Following a complaint from Anandapuram tehsildar KV Eswara Rao, the cops booked the MLA. The MLA had announced that the land was purchased by his father and later it was divided into six parts among family members. The persons who sold the land to his father possessed the pattadar passbooks since 1980, he claimed and added that he is ready to face any investigation. “I am ready to submit myself for an enquiry if SIT wants me to,” he added. Tampering of the land came to light after a few persons approached SIT.
 
 SIT officials, who verified the records, came to a conclusion that the government land in an extent of 95.89 acres has indeed been grabbed. According to sources, three persons — Pakalapati Bhairagi Raju, Ramesh and Satyanarayana Raju — got the land documents transferred on their names by showcasing the government land as a private land and sold it MLA’s father Peela Mahalakshmi Naidu.
 
 Highly-placed sources said the SIT has now trained its guns on no-objection certificate (NOC) lands that have been handed over to ex-servicemen and political turncoats. Most of these land tracts are in Madhurawada, Kommadi, Anandapuram, Bhimili, Pareadesipalem and other areas and are occupied by the ex-servicemen and others. “Top SIT officials will soon undertake field visits of these land holdings,” sources said
 
 After a verification by the district officials, it has now come to light that around 400 acres of government land records have been tampered with. “With the focus shifting to NOC lands, grabbing of government lands will be under the scanner of SIT,” a senior revenue official told TOI. Minister Ch Ayyanna Patrudu has furnished some details to SIT in the land scam, while BJP MLA Vishnu Kumar Raju and YSRC leaders also submitted some files to the SIT team.
 
 The sources said that former revenue minister Dharmana Prasada Rao is also under SIT scanner. Though the YSRC had earlier claimed that it did not have faith in the SIT enquiry, the party seems to have softened its stance after the cops booked the TDP legislator.
 
 
