Students who have been travelling all the way to Bhopal to get their   sorted are in a great mood these days. Reason?   now has its own Passport Seva Laghu Kendra ( ). The office which was inaugurated 
 

 
 
 Ritika Ratnagar, who is preparing for her GRE exams admits, “The idea of travelling to Bhopal with the required documents was cumbersome. If we forgot any documents, the entire process would get delayed. Local touts were another issue to deal with. Now that the office is in Indore, the process is so much simpler. We spend only a couple of hours and the work is complete.”
 Locals are also quite impressed with the 1000 sq ft sprawling office. Yash Dhariwal, an overseas education aspirant who recently visited the passport office exclaims, “The experience was amazing. All I had to do was book an online appointment and visit the office. The process is smooth and it only took me an hour to go through the formalities.”
 
 
 
 
 Neena Modi, who runs a coaching centre and trains aspirants for various competitive exams for overseas education says, “Most of the students who come to enquire about overseas education at our centre don’t have a passport. Even to fill a form of any competitive exam, a passport number is a requirement. We deal with a number of students who have only two-three months’ time to clear a particular exam, after which they can seek an admission in the desired university. In these three months getting a passport and preparing for the exam, managing loans, and finally applying to various universities and visa is a tedious process. With the new passport office now in the city, students can easily get their passports done.”
 Prashant Hemnani, who runs an overseas education institute says, “The students would waste a lot of time in travelling all the way to Bhopal. Now it will be a smoother process.”
 
 
 
 
 Authorities in colleges that encourage students to pursue studies abroad are also breathing a sigh of relief. Sharmila Dominick, round square representative and senior faculty of a residential and day-boarding school ( ) in the city shares, “Each year a large number of students from our college applies to different countries as part of a foreign exchange program. We had to arrange conveyance for the students who aren’t local residents for travelling to Bhopal. Usually, a teacher or a volunteer would take leave to accompany students. But now the passport office has made life easy for all of us.”
 Raminder Mac, dean of international affairs in Choithram International School adds, “This should prompt parents to initiate and get the passports done. The Passport Seva Laghu Kendra is a boon for schools that have Foreign Exchange Education Programs as a part of the curriculum.”
 
  
 
 
