 and vitamin D have an interesting, and still not completely understood relationship. In some reports, it has been suggested that atorvastatin use can actually increase, or contribute to, an increased vitamin D status. Also, results from various studies have shown that both the effectiveness of atorvastatin and outcomes related to atorvastatin use are improved by vitamin D.
 
    is a risk factor for   and other chronic diseases, including type 1 diabetes, hypertension, metabolic syndrome, and ischemic heart disease. Atorvastatinare one of the most commonly prescribed medications used mainly for lowering cholesterol. However, it is also prescribed in patients with autoimmune disorders, Alzheimer’s disease, and cardiovascular conditions. A study evaluated the possible effect of atorvastatin on vitamin D levels in patients with acute ischemic heart disease. Results showed that after treatment with atorvastatin, there was a substantial decrease in cholesterol and triglyceride levels and an increase in vitamin D levels. This explains some of the beneficial effects of atorvastatin at the cardiovascular level that are unrelated to cholesterol levels.
  
  A study called APPE analysed the effects of   on lowering cholesterol levels. Results demonstrated that vitamin D reduced the levels of LDL cholesterol only among those taking atorvastatin. This was the first time in lupus (a cardiac disorder), the researchers found that vitamin D status may affect response to atorvastatin in cardiovascular risk over time. Another study determined vitamin D supplementation effects on concentrations of atorvastatin and cholesterol in patients. The conclusion of the study suggested that vitamin D supplementation lowers atorvastatin concentrations yet has synergistic effects on cholesterol concentrations. One study suggested that sufficient vitamin D concentrations might be required for atorvastatin to reduce lipid levels in patients with acute myocardial infarction.
  
  A sufficient amount of vitamin D is important for good bone and cardiac health. Vitamin D has synergistic effect with atorvastatin for lowering cholesterol, lupus and myocardial infarction. There are limited studies exploring the impact of atorvastatin on vitamin D. More studies are needed to understand the complex ways in which atorvastatin and vitamin D might affect each other’s properties and actions.
  
  
 
  1. http://lupus.bmj.com/content/1/1/e000037
  2. Am J Cardiol. 2007 Apr 1;99(7):903-5. Epub 2007 Feb 8.
  3. International Journal of Endocrinology Volume 2010 (2010), Article ID 320721.
  
  
 
  Dr.  , MD, DM (Cardiology), Sr. Consultant Interventional Cardiologist, Trimurti Hospital, Varanasi
  
 : gupta77majoj@gmail.com
  
  
 : The views and opinions expressed by the Doctors are their independent professional judgment and we do not take any responsibility for the accuracy of their views. This should not be considered as a substitute for Physician's advice. Please consult your treating Physician for more details.
  
  
