PUNE: The last monsoon may have helped fill reservoirs in urban areas but it could not do much to improve the plight of farmers in the state. As many as 3,052 farmers committed suicide in 2016, according to the latest  . 

 The highest number of suicides was reported in Amravati, followed by Aurangabad. One of the worst years for farmers 2015 in which as many as 3,190 farmers committed suicide, 2016 was barely any better and recorded the second highest number of suicides in 16 years.
 
 However, not all the families of these farmers may qualify for the compensation package from the government because as per the state's estimate, only 1,621 cases were 'eligible  ', i.e cases in which the the deceased farmer owned land and had evidence of indebtedness.
 
 Out of the 3,052 farmer suicide cases in the state from January to December 2016, over 2,000 were from the  . Till November 2016, the highest number of farmer suicides in the Amravati division was recorded in Amravati district itself, followed by Yavatmal. In the Aurangabad division, the highest number of suicides took place in Beed, followed by Nanded and Osmanabad.
 
 From January to December 2016, the maximum number of suicides in the state occurred in the month of August, followed by September, the month of the receding monsoons.
 
 Activist Kishore Tiwari, chairman of the Vasantrao Naik Sheti Swavalamban Mission, constituted as a task force to address the issues of farmers who are suffering, “Farmers still have not been able to come out of the economic crisis created by two consecutive droughts in 2014 and 2015. Farmers and crops have continued to suffer due to deficient rainfall in the drought years as well as excess rainfall events.”
 
 Tiwari said that farmer suicides not only occur due to agrarian reasons but also the despair that farmers experience due to debt, mounting health expenses, children’s education expenses, among others. “This despair should be addressed in places where the number of suicides has risen even in 2016, such as Osmanabad, Jalna and Latur among others,” said Tiwari.
 
 He said that input and output cost regulation, choosing an appropriate crop pattern and credit network reaching farmers’ houses are some ways to alleviate distress caused by the economic crisis.
 
 Maruti Chawre, who works in Kisan Mitra—a network of 15 NGOs that work towards generating livelihood for farmers—said, “The cost of inputs as well as other costs of sowing have increased over the years, at the sane time farmers fail to get an adequate price for their harvest. In addition, till the pending debts are paid by farmers, they do not get additional credit during a sowing season. This means that often, farmers do not have enough money to begin the sowing process in a specific sowing window, despite  .”
 
