Chennai: Anisha & Manish Gupta, who had just retired from their jobs wanted to take a holiday from Delhi to Jaipur. Saving up for purchasing a car, taking care of the insurance and maintenance was cumbersome and that made her rent self-drive cars, which made it easier for them to travel. “We had taken a luxury SUV and had driven it down for 2 days. It was hassle-free to pay and take a drive as we wanted,” said Anisha. Conventionally catering to millennials and the working population, self-drive car rental companies such as Eco Rent a Car, Myles and Revv are now finding senior citizen travellers a growing segment. Hassle-free drive without having to maintain the car or pay monthly insurance and reduced paperwork propel the increase in demand. "Facilities we offer such as free pick up and drop at their homes, from the destination (for outstation travel) and a guide who stays with them throughout the trip, has made us see a growth in the segment, "said Aditya Loomba, CEO, Eco Rent a Car. While the segment currently forms close to 10% of their total business, senior citizens segment sees a 25-30% growth, companies add. According to a report by Ken Research, in the outlook period FY'2016-FY'2020, the self-driven car rental market is growing at 35% CAGR. While senior citizens taking more vacations has contributed to an accelerated growth, one of the portals, Revv, sees senior citizens taking more work-related trips. “For the first six months since our launch, I did not see any senior citizens make bookings. Later, we began seeing an uptick in the bookings for two or three-day trips and now they form over 10% of our business,” said Anupam Agarwal, co-founder, Revv. He added that with the company increasing number of promotions on self-drive car rental catering to work-related trips, senior citizen segment would see an accelerated growth.  Sakshi Vij, CEO, Myles, says that she sees more of intra-city travel among the senior citizen category. “Parents of foreign-return kids, who are introduced to the concept of self-drive car rentals, which is prevalent abroad, form a part of the customer base,” she added. The startup offers all-day roadside assistance, free delivery of cars to doorstep and agents educating the senior citizens on the convenience of self-drive car rentals. ENDS