PUNE: Be cautious if you pass through Katraj, Shivajinagar, Hadapsar and Bhumkar Chowk areas on Saturday. You might come across poor air quality in those pockets of the city.

 Pollutants have been crossing the maximum permissible limit in those areas of late. They are likely to have very poor to poor air quality on Saturday as well, IITM’s   and Research ( ) forecast revealed on Friday. The particulate matter (PM) 2.5 concentration was above the permissible level on Friday and is likely to remain so on Saturday.
 
 A pollution alert issued by SAFAR stated there was an increasing likelihood of respiratory symptoms in sensitive individuals when exposed to the high concentration of pollutants in the four areas.
 
 According to the SAFAR data, the primary pollutant in Katraj was PM2.5, followed by PM10. The concentration of PM2.5 there was five times more than the permissible limit on Friday and is likely to remain almost the same on Saturday, categorized as “very poor”.
 
 The PM10 concentration in Katraj on Friday was twice the threshold limit. It is likely to remain as “poor” on Saturday, the forecast stated.
 
 The PM2.5 concentration in Shivajinagar on Friday was under the “poor” category and was several times above the maximum permissible limit. The pollutant’s concentration would remain the same on Saturday, almost three to four times over threshold limits. The PM10 concentration in Shivajinagar on Friday crossed the threshold limit, but is likely to remain “moderate” on Saturday, the forecast stated.
 
 “When the air quality is moderate, unusually sensitive people should consider reducing prolonged or heavy exertion and heavy outdoor work,” said an   scientist.
 
 The PM2.5 concentration in Hadapsar was over four times more than the permissible limit on Friday, categorized as “poor”. The situation in Hadapsar is likely to remain almost the same on Saturday, with poor air quality distressing visitors to the area.
 
 Though pollution tends to get severe during winter, the situation in some areas in the city remains the same irrespective of the temperature in Pune. “The temperature in the city is on the rise, but pollutants continue to cross the maximum permissible limit in some areas. Low temperature is generally thought to increase the levels of pollutants. The most likely causes of increasing pollution in these localities are increased vehicular activity and construction activities,” the scientist said.
 
 
