NAGPUR:  ,   and   brought home a yellow metal apiece as Nagpur district veterans made their presence felt by winning as many as 12 medals in the   which concluded at the GMC Balayogi Athletics Stadium in Gachibowli, Hyderabad.

 The seven city masters who recorded a podium finish in the 12 events have now qualified to represent the country in the   slated to be held at China in September.
 
 The five-day Masters meet was organized by the Masters Athletics Association of Telangana under the aegis of  .
 
 While Chordia reigned supreme in the hammer throw event in her 80 years and above age category, she missed discuss throw gold by a whisker to win silver in the same age group.
 
 Similarly in the 45 years and above section, Bhoyer brought home a steeple chase gold while claimed a silver medal each in the 5000 and 1500 metres running events respectively.
 
 She is now eligible to take part in the Asian Masters meet in all the three events.
 
 The third gold medal by city athlete was won by Mohini Deshpande in the 65 and above age group. Deshpande dominated the 200 metres running event and added another podium finish with a bronze medal in the 100m race.
 
 The other shinning masters from the city who won a bronze medal each in the nationals include Helen Joseph, Akram Khan, C Bawankule and Rajendra More.
 
 While Joseph garnered a bronze medal each in the shot put and triple jump events in the 60+ age group Akram Khan recorded the podium finish in the 50 and above 400m race. Both Bawankule and More were part of the Maharashtra state squad that won the 4x100m relay bronze medal in the 55 and above age category.
 
 As many as 56 veteran athletes from the city were part of the Maharashtra contingent that won a handful of medals in the national event. The 58 medals that Maharashtra men and women athletes won include 18 gold, 16 silver and 24 bronze medals respectively.
 
 Member of the Nagpur District Masters Association (NDMA) Ishwar Deshmukh, who competed for the first time in the veterans’ competition had a different experience. In a chat with TOI Deshmukh, who participated in the 50 and above long jump event, said, “I competed for the first time as I was out of the country for last 15 years. As a first timer I had a good competitive experience at this age.”
 
 Members of the NDMA felicitated the winners and wished them luck for the forthcoming Asian championship.
 
 
