NEW DELHI: Could 16-year-old Atul Arora, who was killed on Sunday after a   hit his scooter, avoided death if he had worn a helmet? Possibly. But unfortunately, Delhi’s road users are notorious for flouting rules. Among them,   riders often dispense with helmets, zig-zag through the streets and frequently test fate by riding in the wrong direction on the road. Police figures reveal that in 72% of fatalities involving two-wheelers, the riders did not have proper helmets.

 According to a police study conducted last year, hit-and-run cases, as in the case of Arora, accounted for almost 50% of the road deaths. Traffic police officers say that the most vulnerable periods are between 10pm and midnight and between 4am and 6am. Pedestrians and two-wheeler riders comprised 90% of the victims, the rest being car drivers. Of the pedestrians, around 80% were forced to use the main roads because there were no footpaths on the treacherous stretches.
 
 Police officers are optimistic about Arora’s killer being found soon since figures show that in almost 90% of the hit-and-run cases reported in 2016, the errant drivers were traced within 48 hours. CCTV footage provided vital clues for detecting the killer cars.
 
 The cops admitted that lack of surveillance and loose enforcement of law at night allowed the errant driver to escape. “In almost 70% of these cases, the victim succumbs to the injuries with hardly anyone on the roads to cater to them within the golden hour,” said an officer.
 
 Police officers say that accidents are most probable at T-point intersections or multi-level intersections, where a colony road meets an arterial road. Senior police officers observed that the mouths of flyovers and merging points of roads are now becoming sites of regular accidents. Cops studying the nature of accidents say that private car drivers were mostly at fault. 
 
 Garima Bhatnagar, joint commissioner (traffic), said that reducing the number of hit-and-run cases would require strict enforcement of rules disallowing juveniles to drive. “We managed to reduce the number of fatal accidents to 1,548 last year, but in most of these cases the causes were petty violations, including speeding at intersections,” Bhatnagar said. “We have identified 69 points on arterial roads that are prone to accidents and have suggested changes that could slow down vehicles approaching them.” 
 
 
