Nagpur: District and additional sessions judge GP Shirsat on Tuesday granted conditional bail to Janhvi Singh, wife of dreaded interstate gold robber  , against furnishing a surety of Rs25,000. She has been asked by the court to furnish a local person as surety guarantor and also cooperate with the probe whenever required. Janhvi, arrested around four months ago in 2016 by crime branch, would walk out after submitting her photo-identity proof. 

 City police’s crime branch had arrested Janhvi from Bihar in connection to sensational Manappuram gold dacoity case in Jaripatka in September last year in which her husband Subodhkant and his gang had looted around 30kg of gold and three-and-half lakh rupees cash under broad daylight. City police had also filed a charge sheet against Janhvi. Though two more accomplices of Subodhkant has been nabbed, the mastermind dacoit has remained elusive since then. After city, the gang had committed similar daredevil dacoity in Kolkata before planning a series of heist in south India. It was during preparation of dacoity that the gang members, with substantial firearms and ammunitions, were netted in the joint action by Kolkata police and their Vizag counterparts. Subodkant had once again gave cops the slip.
 
 Nabbing Janhvi, city police too had tried to mount pressure on Subodkant to trap him but the ploy too had failed. Janhvi’s counsels,   and  , had argued before the court that police had merely implicated her in the case to ensure Subodkant was trapped. Sonwane said that the police had concocted a case against Janhvi stating that she was informed by her husband about the heist in city after returning to Bihar before fleeing from home with the booty. “City police had made a case out of the fact that Janhvi had learnt about the dacoity and probably also knew where the booty was kept, but law does not permits arresting one to get hold of another,” said Sonwane. 
 
 The court, it was learnt, had observed that there was no concrete case against Janhvi or any substantial progress made in the investigations. 
 
