CHENNAI: In a major reshuffle,   and three   in the state have been transferred by  .
The director general of police, S George, has been posted as director general of police, fire and rescue services (Chennai). RC Kudwala, has been posted at the additional director general of police, training, replacing KP Maghendran, who will take charge as director general of police, vigilance (TANGEDCO).
 
 MC Sarangan, has been named the new inspector general of police, anforcement, while NK Senthamarai Kannan, will be the inspector general of police, technical services in its existing vacancy .
 
 P Thamarai Kannan, has been posted as the inspector general of police, crime (CID), K Joshi Nirmal Kumar, has been named the deputy inspector general of police, intelligence CID, and Prem Anand Sinha will be the joint comissioner of police traffic, North Chennai and Greater Chennai.
 
 S Jeyakumar will be superintendent of police, Villupuram, while S Selvakumar, will be acting deputy commissioner of police, Flower Bazaar (Greater Chennai Police) filling in the current vacancy .
 
 J Mutharasi, will take charge as assistant inspector general of police, administration. V Vikraman, will be the superintendent of police `Q' Branch (CID) Chennai. P Arun Sakthikumar, will be the new superintendent of police, Tirunelveli.
 
 R Tirunavukkarasu, will take charge as deputy commissioner of police, intelligence section-1; R Sibi Chakravarthi, will be the superintendent of police, Thiruvallur and Ara Arularasu will be the superintendent of police, Namakkal district and Om Prakash Meena, will be the superintendent of police, Ramanathapuram district.
 
 Deshmukh Shekar, will fill in the post of superintendent of police, Nagapattinam district and Arun Balagopalan, has been named the assistant superintendent of police, Nanguneri sub-division, Tirunelveli.
 
 In a minor reshuffle, the state government on Monday posted A Ramalingam as commissioner of arts and culture.Ramalingam was secretary IV to former chief minister J Jayalalithaa during her last term.Museums director D Jaganathan has been posted as managing director of   Text Book and Educational Services Corporation vice Mythili K Rajendran. Mythili has been posted as additional secretary to government, public department vice V Palanikumar, already transferred.
 
 
