PATNA: The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) circular notwithstanding, several schools in the state capital are still asking students to buy excessive number of textbooks published mostly by publishers other than the  .

 Sources said the CBSE on July 20, 2015 issued a circular to the principals of all schools, warning them against the practice of coercing parents to buy textbooks other than those of the NCERT. The circular was issued following a series of complaints stating that many schools had been coercing students and parents to buy textbooks other than those prescribed by the NCERT. “The board has received reports and complaints regarding the pressure exercised in many schools on children and their parents to purchase excessive number of textbooks. It was brought to our notice that parents are being forced to buy textbooks by private publishers, which are not only costly but capacious and unscientifically designed,” the circular states.
 
 Uday Pratap, director of a prominent bookstore chain in the city, said most of the schools send their booklist for nursery to Class XII. “Mostly, schools prefer other publishers to NCERT. Srijan, Orient Blackswan, Oxford University Press, Sultan Chand and Headword books are recommended the most. The reason why they go for other publishers is that, like every year, we are still facing 40% shortage of NCERT books. We got only one consignment of NCERT books which is not enough for all the school students.”
 
 Sometimes, schools refer to other publications like   and others due to the shortage of NCERT books, said Rajiv Ranjan Sinha, president of Patliputra Sahodaya.
 
 Sister Mary Jessy of   said, “Through reference books, students may understand the topic very deeply. The school never forced the students to buy books other than the NCERT. The teachers only suggest them to take help of other publishers to understand the several topics.”
 
  principal Brother Satheesh K Don said after the board issued the circular in 2015, the school administration prescribed only NCERT books from Class IX up to Class XII. “For other classes, we recommend other publications for mathematics, science, English, environmental studies and other subjects,” he said.
 
 “Our school prescribes R S Aggrawal for mathematics as students need extra practice to prepare themselves for IIT-JEE and other competitive exams. While for other subjects, the school prefers NCERT books. There is no pressure from the school to buy additional books,” said St Karen’s   principal Seema Singh.
 
 “Only   prescribe NCERT books from nursery to Class XII,” said a bookstore owner. 
 
 Manoj Kumar, a father of two and resident of Kankarbagh said, “I thought it was compulsory to buy reference books. The school also suggests the same to score well in exams.” He added, “The NCERT books are very difficult to get and, at times, are not available while books of other publishers are very costly.”
 
 Saroj Jha, whose son studies in one on the prominent schools, said in most of the subjects, the school asked to buy books of private publishers. “I have to pay five times more than the NCERT books. Educating a kid has become a costly affair,” he added.
 
 
