LUCKNOW: The   could have fared better despite the BJP sweep if it has not been for its internal squabbling over seat-sharing. 

 Results of UP polls show that Congress and SP candidates were head to head on 22 assembly seats, seven of which the alliance could have won if it hasn't been for the their internal warring. While Congress has only won one of these - Kanpur Cantonment - the SP has won three. The remaining 18 seats were lapped up by BJP.
 
 The foremost example of the alliance's internal malfunction are the two high profile seats of Amethi and Lucknow Central. In Amethi, Congress'   and SP minister Gayatri Prajapati were pitted against BJP's Garima Sinh. The family feud between the two 'Ranis', Garima, the estranged wife of Congress leader Sanjay Sinh, and Ameeta, his current wife, gave the BJP an edge and allowed it to wrest the Congress stronghold. While Ameeta polled 20,291 votes, Prajapati polled 59,161 votes. Amethi winner   polled 64,226 votes. If Congress had not fielded Ameeta, the SP could have won the seat and saved the grand old party the blushes on its home turf.
 
 Lucknow Central saw a similar battle. Here, SP minister Ravidas Mehrotra finished second to BJP's Brajesh Pathak. If it hadn't been for Congress' Maroof Khan, who bagged over 12,000 votes, Mehrotra, who lost by over 5000 votes, could have won. The SP and Congress also pulled each other down in west UP's Gangoh seat where the contest between SP's Indrasen and Congress' Nauman Madood allowed BJP's Pradeep Kumar to walk away with the winner's certificate. On this seat, Congress polled 61,000 votes, while SP polled over 47,000 votes. Kumar, on the other hand, got a little over 99,000 votes.
 
 The Congress also lost the Sareni seat in the Gandhi bastion to bad seat management within the alliance. While Congress' Ashok Singh polled over 42,000 votes, SP MLA Devendra Pratap Singh got 32,792 votes. 
 
 If only one or the other had contested, their cumulative total would have exceeded BJP winner Dhirendra Singh's vote count of 65,873. The Maharajpur seat in Kanpur, though, saw the worst instance of SP-Congress fight. BJP's Satish Mahana comfortably swept Maharajpur, but not before both the warring parties and their leaders exposed the differences to the public. While Congress's Rajaram Pal and SP's Aruna Tomar fought themselves, the SP-Congress leadership also appeared divided. Rahul and Akhilesh jointly campaigned for the Congress nominee, while Kannauj MP Dimple Yadav pitched for the SP candidate. In the end, while their cumulative tally was not enough to defeat Mahana, Pal and Tomar, polled 18,697 and 38,752 respectively, despite the confusion.
 
 It was much the same for Congress' Brijlal Khabri on the reserved Mehroni seat in Bundelkhand. Khabri and SP's Ramesh Khatik fought each other instead of the BJP. While Khatik polled over 27,000 votes, Khabri got 43,171 votes but the seat was won by BJP.
 
