CHENNAI: Ten district   (DCCBs) in   have exchanged `467 crore worth demonetised `500 and `1,000 currency notes with the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (Nabard) till July 21, 2017, the deadline fixed by the Supreme Court for cooperative banks. All these deposits were made between November 8 and December 31, when the Centre allowed deposit of de monetised currency notes in commercial banks.
 
 “Demonetised currency notes from a DCCB in north Tamil Nadu has not been accepted as these notes were deposited beyond December 31.It is up to   to take a decision on the notes remaining with this bank,“   region chief general manager Nagoor Ali Jinnah told TOI on Wednesday. TOI has the information of total amount of demonetised currency notes pending with this DCCB, but is withholding the numbers on request from Nabard officials.
 
 Salem and Trichy districts cooperative banks have made the maximum deposits in the state. More than `50 crore have been deposited by each of the two banks. Incidentally, the income tax department had conducted searches of Salem District Central Cooperative Bank branches last December and summoned 64 managers of cooperative banks for questioning over large deposits. “Out of the 23 DCCBs in Tamil Nadu, 10 had cash in the form of old notes as deposits by members of the cooperative banks. We were authorised to collect the old note deposits from rural cooperative banks only and nearly 80 officials from our bank toured the state and collected the deposits,“ said Jinnah.
 
 The exercise of collecting the demonetised notes and verifying the know your customer (KYC) details was carried out in all these banks for nearly one month. “Our man date was only to check the KYC of account holders and the date of deposit made. Based on these, we accepted `467 crore from 10 DCCBs and deposited the same with the RBI,“ said Jinnah.
 
 Members of the cooperative banks are yet to get credit for deposits in old notes. “We have just deposited the notes with the RBI. Officials said they will have to verify the authenticity of the notes and after that will credit the cash to the accounts. It will take a few days,“ he said.
 
