NEW DELHI: The Delhi   on Wednesday said it may streamline the functioning of the famous   along the lines of the Vaishno Devi shrine if the   continue making a “joke of the deity”. While hearing a dispute between three siblings over their share in the offerings — or “chadhava” — Justice J R Midha also rapped one of the priests who is embroiled in a dispute with his sisters.

 “You (priest and the incharge) have made a joke of the deity. Nobody concentrates on puja. Puja is a prayer ritual performed to host, honour and worship one or more deities, but here you people are after money,” the court remarked, wondering how can people “who auction the rights of doing puja at the temple be permitted to sit in the temple?”
 
 The court’s oral observation came on the priest’s plea seeking a judicial order to restrain his two sisters from doing puja and sewa at the temple and sharing offerings collected during their turn, an argument he had lost before the trial court, forcing him to come to the high court in appeal.
 
 The priest, through his counsel, B L Wali, argued that puja was being performed in the temple by four "Brahmins" having an equal share in the income, but this time his sisters were also allowed by the trial court to sit in the puja to enable them to have a share in the offerings. He said the temple had no problem if the sisters entered and worshipped at the temple, i.e do puja, but they can’t have a share in the offerings since after marriage their “gotra” has changed.
 
 But the court would have none of it and made it clear that “we will see as to who will get the money. The court will appoint a person who will record everything going on at the temple while puja is being performed. The person will keep record of the money collected. The money collected will be kept in the bank till we decide the issue finally.”
 
 Justice Midha also indicated he may appoint an investigating officer to see who all are sitting for the puja and to check the antecedents of the persons even as he gave a day’s time to the sparring siblings to attempt an out-of-court settlement.
 
 The court has, however, called them to appear on February 10 when it said it will formulate questions and may treat the issue as a PIL.
 
 On Tuesday, the HC had asked the priest why he wanted to debar his sisters from performing puja and sewa at the temple after he sought an urgent hearing against a trial court order allowing his sisters to do both and claim a share in the offerings.
 
 The counsel said since the married daughters belong to different families and gotra, they have no right to perform puja-sewa and argued that the trial court’s February 4 order should be stayed and his sisters be restrained from performing puja. He sought to restrain his sisters from claiming a share in the offerings, arguing that in the history of the Kalkaji temple, no woman has ever performed puja. 
 
 
