RANCHI: All roads seem to lead to the Morabadi ground where traders from nine countries including Pakistan, Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Egypt, Turkey and 13 states from across the country have showcased a wide range of products on   and housing, home décor, electronic goods, clothes, besides food pavilions to tickle the taste buds.

 The India International  , which is being organized by the Bengal Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industry and  , recorded a footfall of 50,000 people on the very first day. “We expect more than 4.5 lakh visitors this year. Last year 3.5 lakh people had attended the event,” said Prakash Shah, chairman of exhibition and trade fair committee of   and of GS marketing. 
 
 At this fourth edition of India International Mega Trade Fair at the Morabadi ground, Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Associations of India and Jharkhand Electric Traders’ Association have set up two pavilions. There are seven pavilions which house 450 stalls in the fair will conclude on February 20. 
 
 Security for the trade fair is likely to get boost during February 16 and 17 when the city will host the global investors’ summit. “Tight security arrangements have been made for all parts of the city during the two-day event at Khelgaon. Adequate security will be provided to the trade fair too,” said a senior city police official. 
 
 Shah added: “The fair is proving to be an effective platform for traders to interact with customers and with other traders. This is an exciting time for Jharkhand due to global investment summit being held.” 
 
 Traders from 13 states across the country too offered a huge range of products - right from Lonavala chikkis to posh apartments in Gurgaon. 
 
 Turkish trader, Ahmet Celik, who is in the city to participate in the event, was a busy man this Sunday as there was a continuous rush of people to his stall, who were in awe of ceramic and glass works straight from the streets of Istanbul. Light reflecting off the brim of the coloured glass lent a mystic feel to that corner of the international pavilion at the fair. 
 
