Guwahati: At a time when majority of   militant outfits are joining the peace process, People’s Democratic Council of Karbi-Longri (PDCK) is trying to spread its tentacles in the hill district, said sources in Assam Police.

 Believed to be formed recently under the guidance of NDFB’s hardliner faction leader IK Songbijit, PDCK has reportedly launched a recruitment drive in the region.
 
 Once under the shadow of militant outfits like United People’s Democratic Solidarity, Dilip Nunisa faction of Dima Halim Daogah and the Jewel Garlosa faction of DHD, Karbi Anglong district witnessed ‘winds of change’ when these outfits either disbanded or joined peace talks. Many other outlawed groups like Karbi National Volunteers, Karbi People’s Front and Karbi Longri North Cachar Hills Liberation Front, too, followed the same path over the years.
 
 “Ever since the genocide of Adivasis in 2014, Songbijit got reportedly unpopular among the Bodos for his barbaric ways. Sidelined and pushed to Myanmar, the rebel leader formed PDCK with Karbi youths drawn from the NDFB faction,” a source said. 
 
 Many Karbi youths were recruited in the NDFB(S) faction when Songbijit was heading it and police suspect that these youths helped him to form the new outfit.
 
 Police alleged that Songbijit was trying to capitalize on the vacuum created by the ceasefire agreements. “Songbijit is definitely trying to cash in on the vacuum. In the past, all Karbi insurgent outfits had the objective of securing statehood for the Karbis. However, PDCK is talking about sovereignty. The outfit is backed by NSCN-K and Ulfa (Independent),” the source added. 
 
 Security sources said the insurgent group was raised in Myanmar in October last year. “Over 60 cadres under IK Songbijit, who headed PDCK, are in Myanmar training camps. The outfit, however, is trying to lure local youths,” said another source. 
 
 Police are maintaining sharp vigil and are scrutinizing several suspected ‘profiles’ on various social networking sites. “Songbijit has been using social networking sites to issue extortion notes to many while he was heading NDFB(S). We suspect a similar modus operandi is being used by PDCK,” said a top police officer. 
 
 
