As   scrambled to take sides in a divided house, cracks appeared in the party's western bastion with a few Lok Sabha MPs from the region switching loyalties to chief minister O Panneerselvam.   Lok Sabha members P R Sundaram, K Ashokkumar and V Sathyabhama on Saturday trained their guns on M Thambidurai accusing him of high-handedness and blind devotion to general secretary V K  .

 With AIADMK MLAs regrouping themselves behind Sasikala and OPS, the party's 50 members in the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha too are taking sides. Four MPs have decided to support OPS. While the rift among the party's state legislators has widened due to “antipathy“ against Sasikala, at the Centre, the MPs have been trooping to OPS's Chennai residence upset with Thambidurai's alleged domineering attitude.
 
 Sundaram, who represents Namakkal constituency , and K Ashokkumar, of Krishnagiri constituency, said all AIADMK members in Parliament, barring Thambidurai, would join the OPS camp. But Rajya Sabha member A Navaneethakrishnan has been a vociferous supporter of Sasikala.
 
 Ashokkumar alleged Thambidurai did not know what was happening around him. “Thambidurai herded us to the Rashtrapati Bhavan to meet the President under the guise of seeking his signature on the jallikattu ordinance. But, it was a pointless exercise as the ordinance was passed by the President and sent to Tamil Nadu governor,“ said Ashokkumar. “Then Thambidurai wanted to meet PM Narendra Modi and asked us to accompany him.But, the PM did not grant appointment,“ Ashokkumar charged.
 
 Asked why he decided to join OPS camp, Ashokkumar said, “I need to meet the people in my constituency . If I were in the opposite camp, voters in my constituency will ask if I eat food with salt in it (meaning, aren't you aware of reality?)“
 
 Sundaram said when Modi visited Rajaji Hall to pay respects to Jayalalithaa`s body , everyone turned to acknowledge him, but Thambidurai was busy combing his hair.
 
 “The votes we got in the Lok Sabha elections were for former chief minister J Jayalalithaa. There is no way that Sasikala will work like Amma and it is only OPS who can fulfill the people's aspirations,“ said Lok Sabha MP Sathyabhama who represents Tirupur.
 
 Like Ashokkumar, she said voters of her constituency wanted her to take a good decision. “In the last few days ,there was a flurry of calls from my voters asking me to think carefully and take a decision about which faction to join and now I have decided and my voters are happy,“ she said.
 
 The first of the MPs to join OPS was Rajya Sabha member V Maitreyan. “Who is she threatening after writing to the governor? Is she threatening the governor? At a time when AIADMK MLAs are [being] held like hostages, she is threatening the governor. The President, Prime Minister and Union home minister must order an inquiry into the statement,“ he told reporters.
 
