THANE: A 29-year-old Mumbra resident has been sentenced to 35 years in prison following his conviction in the double   of a three-month pregnant woman and her brother and for assaulting her husband in November 2012. The victims were Shaikh’s relatives and neighbours in Kismat Colony, Mumbra.

 Additional   court Judge P P Jadhav on Tuesday held Azim Shaikh guilty in the murders of Zakira Qureshi, her brother Mohammad Ajij aka Bablu and the brutal assault of her husband Mohammad Qureshi, who survived multiple stab wounds.
 
 Public prosecutor V A Kulkarni said the sole motive behind the killings was Shaikh’s suspicion that the three were speaking ill of his wife.
 
 On November 19, 2012, around 6am, Zakira, her brother and husband were discussing certain issues when Shaikh arrived at their residence and accused them of bad-mouthing his wife. When they tried to pacify him, he attacked them with a knife.
 
 Ajij was stabbed in his left ribs and head, a pregnant Zakira in her stomach and chest, and Qureshi on his right hand, head and chest. On hearing the commotion, the neighbours and Shaikh’s wife rushed to their flat and she too sustained minor injuries, Kulkarni told the court.
 
 The neighbours took an injured Qureshi to Kausa police chowky for help and moved Zakira and Ajij to Chhatrapati Shivaji Hospital in Kalwa where Zakira was declared dead on arrival. Ajij succumbed to his injuries a day later, the   was told.
 
 Defence counsel Ramrao Jagtap told the court that the accused’s intention was not to cause the death of Qureshi’s wife and brother-in-law. Kulkarni argued that Zakira was three months pregnant and the attack was pre-planned as Shaikh had carried a knife with him. The murder was committed in front of Zakira’s 14-year-old daughter and neighbours. Kulkarni urged the court to give the accused capital punishment. 
 
 After hearing both the prosecution and the defence, Judge Jadhav stated in his order: “Considering the injuries sustained and the assault, it cannot be said that it is in a barbaric or heinous way, attracting the death penalty. Merely because two persons died in the assault, the case cannot be termed as falling under the category of rarest of rare cases.”
 
 Shaikh was convicted under the Indian Penal Code’s Section 302 to rigorous 14-year life imprisonment each for the murders of Zakira and Ajij and under Section 307 to rigorous imprisonment of seven years for attempt to murder. The sentences will run consecutively one after another, the judge said.
 
 
