BENGALURU: Police launched a manhunt for a   attached to taxi hailing app Ola for allegedly molesting a professional singer around 2am on Friday. She lodged a complaint with Bommanahalli police on Sunday.

 The driver deviated from the assigned route and took her to an isolated location where he allegedly sexually assaulted her.
 
 In her statement to police, the woman said the driver, later identified as Ravi, took the detour on pretext of avoiding the main road, but before she could react, he began molesting. Her screams for help went unheard in the deserted location.
 
 The woman was returning home after attending a karaoke night in Koramangala. Her house was around 5km away and she booked a cab. “I boarded the cab from Koramangala to my house in Begur. On our way, the driver stopped opposite Kebab Zone on Begur Road on the pretext of avoiding something in the road,” read the complaint.
 
 The driver then went to a deserted location, suspected to be predetermined by the driver, and stopped. He sat in the cab for some seconds and then suddenly turned back and grabbed her.
 
 “I screamed, but still he didn’t stop,” she wrote in her complaint. She told police she was shocked and realised no one had heard her screams. “I pushed him and jumped out of the cab. He still followed me,” read her statement.
 
 “Luckily there was a hospital close by and I requested the security to allow me inside,” she said. She called her friends and waited at the clinic till they arrived. On seeing her enter the hospital, the driver fled.
 
 Deputy commissioner of police, Whitefield, M Narayana said, “We have all details of the driver and three teams have been formed, under the supervision of an assistant commissioner of police, to track him down.”
 
 The driver has been booked under section 354 (outraging the modesty of a woman) and other sections of the IPC.
 
 “We have terminated the driver partner from the Ola platform as soon as we received acomplaint from the customer. We have assured the customer of full support in further investigation of the issue,” said Ola in an official statement.
 
