On April 3, the sanitation ministry issued an advisory to states, that the third-gender community should be given the option to use public toilets of their choice. Days before that, the Vicks 'touch of care' campaign tugged at heartstrings following a very humane representation of the community through   rights activist, Gauri Sawant’s true tale of bravery. There have been similar initiatives, like ‘My First Women’s Day’ and ‘The Seatbelt Crew’. Could these positive signs of the times mean that the community is inching closer towards finding inclusivity in society?

 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) hired Reshma Punekar with a knowledge of her identity. “For the seven years that I’ve worked here, I’ve not faced any kind of discrimination,” says Reshma. However, some new employees have been poking fun. “It’s probably because they aren't used to transgenders. But this change doesn’t happen overnight. Films like these can change people’s perceptions about us,” says the 26-year-old. 
 Sanjay Shinde (Bapi) hasn’t seen these films yet, but he recognises the discourse. The 42-year-old, who manages a dry cleaning shop in Narayan Peth, says, “I’ve been working here for 17 years. Before this, I worked in Kasba Peth. When I joined, my employer Milind didn’t know about my identity, but even after he did, his attitude towards me didn’t change.” Bapi's current employee treats him with dignity as well.
 
 
 
 Bapi and Reshma are treated no different at work, but it wasn’t so for Chandani Gore. Nobody talked, sat or ate with her at the community learning centre she worked at. But her neighbours never differentiated. “I’ve been living in Upper Indiranagar for the past six years. My landlord’s daughters are particularly attached to me,” says the 29-year-old, adding, "Children never question you identity, especially when they've grown up seeing you as you are." 
 A teacher in a city school, 31-year-old Ambika Panna Gabriel was transferred to Latur after she began to assert her identity. “I refused to go to Latur. The authorities then transferred me back to Pune. I now work at their Loni institute,” says the Bibvewadi resident. She adds, “Though I faced discrimination from colleagues and employers, my students have always respected me.”
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 The city’s cultural circuit hasn’t treated the community any different either. Reshma is well known by her stage peers. “I love acting. When I approached a city theatre group, they welcomed me. I’ve been with the group for seven years, and part of six plays till date,” says Reshma, who acted in the acclaimed play, Hijada that throws light on the lives of six transgender individuals in India. When he isn’t working, Bapi too devotes time to what he loves – dance. Part of a lavani group, he performs in districts including Rajgurunagar and Maval. “Festivals are a busy time for us, especially between April and June,” says Bapi. The group of 35 comprises six other transgender individuals. “Lavani forms an important part of who I am. Art mustn’t be given gender labels,” he adds.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 Though Reshma, Bapi, Chandani and Ambika found acceptance in the city, they form only a fraction of the community that continues to be shunned otherwise. 
 Mumbai, Bengaluru, Chennai and Jaipur host abstract art bearing messages about trans rights and equality, courtesy Bengaluru-based  . Involving transgender people in public art, the project creates consciousness through social participation. Founder member Poornima Sukumar says, “We use art to focus on what the community would like, rather than what it faces.” One of their most recent projects was dedicated to Tara, a transgender woman who self-immolated herself in Chennai after being reportedly harassed by the police. The local transgender community painted a wall in the complex where she lived. Poornima says, “I want to take Aravani to more cities, including Pune, where we can have workshops that involve a dialogue between the mainstream and the local transgender community, and art collaborations.”
 Theatre professional Mahrukh Bharucha recently started Purple Theatricals along with Hina Siddiqui, to work for equality through theatre. “It would be great to collaborate with the transgender community,” says Mahrukh, whose family also employed a transgender individual previously.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 Though many have a column for the third gender in their admission forms, city colleges recorded no admissions from the transgender community this year. Dr Ravindrasinh G Pardeshi, principal, Fergusson College, says, “Last year, we received six applications, but none of them converted into an admission.” No other colleges received such applications. Dilip Sheth, principal, Sir Parashurambhau (SP) College, adds, “We introduced the other option in our online admission form, but did not get a single application with this option checked.” Both hope that more students from the community will come forward in the next academic year.
 
 
 
  (of Masaan fame), who directed the short film starring Gauri, says, “The primary focus was to portray the community as human, devoid of labels. On set too, I was clear that nobody was going to make Gauri feel any special or inferior. And this is what made her really comfortable.” On her part, Gauri says, “Through the film, society will understand that motherhood has no gender. All you need is care. The only thing that matters is people’s perceptions — the day that changes, everything will.”
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 Laxmi broke down when she saw Gauri’s film. The transgender rights activist says, “We are still seen as objects of ridicule by a large section of society. With stories like these showing the community in a more human light, the mainstream will understand our problems and connect with us at an emotional level.” Talking about the sanitation ministry’s recent advisory, Laxmi says, “This is a victory for us. For long, we were denied this very basic right. The government has finally given us the respect we are entitled to.”
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 (With inputs from Anup.Satphale @timesgroup.com and Rishabh.Deb@timesgroup.com)
 
