JAIPUR: The budget session of the   witnessed a stormy beginning as expected on Thursday, with the opposition attempting to corner the ruling party on the first day itself.

 The Opposition, while raising issues related to corruption, unemployment and law and order, made attempts to disrupt the ceremonial speech by Governor  .
 
 Just as he was about to begin his address, Congress deputy whip Govind Singh Dotasara rose to protest against ‘rampant corruption’ across the state. “The state government is busy with meetings, sittings and cheating. It has failed to address the issue of unemployment and is being unjust to youth,” he said, hitting out at the state government. He also voiced his concern over the deteriorating law and order situation in the state.
 
 He found support from National People’s Party (NPP) MLAs Kirorilal Meena, Golma Devi, Geeta Verma, Naveen Pilani and independent MLA Hanuman Beniwal who too protested against the prevailing law and order situation in the state.
 
 Even as parliamentary affairs minister Rajendra Rathore objected to unruly scenes, these legislators rushed into the well and staged a sit-in as the Governor continued with his address highlighting the achievements of the state government.
 
 The recent controversy surrounding the scuffle between Kota MLA Chandrakanta Meghwal, her supporters and the police was also raised in the house. While BSP MLA Manoj Nyangli demanded action against guilty policemen, Dotasara demanded chief minister  , who was briefed about the incident by her MLAs, to give an explanation about it.
 
 Amidst the chaos, Kalyan Singh went on and read out the beginning and the last portion of his address. It was later tabled in the assembly along with the   for Backward Classes Bill 2017, Rajasthan Appropriation Act (Repeal) Bill-2017, Nirwan University, Jaipur Bill 2017, Rajasthan Rent Control (Amendment) Bill-2017 and the Rajasthan Homoeopathic Medicine (Amendment) Bill 2017.
 
 Speaker Kailash Meghwal also informed the house about the disqualification and termination of former BSP MLA B L Kushwah. The assembly was adjourned for the day after the legislators paid tributes to departed leaders, including former Tamil Nadu CM J Jayalalithaa and ex-MP Ramdas Agarwal.
 
