BENGALURU:   from East division arrested  , 21, an electrician, for his alleged involvement in the molestation of a woman in  , in the early hours of January 1.

 Pappi, the sixth accused to be arrested in the case, was picked up from his hideout near Anekal on Monday morning. The woman was returning after ushering in New Year on MG Road in an autorickshaw, and alighted from the vehicle when she was attacked. The survivor was visiting her sister, who had accompanied her and had got down from the auto a few seconds earlier and entered her house.
 
 TOI had accessed CCTV footage from a nearby building that had recorded the ugly incident and passed it on to the police, who registered a suo motu FIR and began investigations on January 3.
 
 Ayyappa alias Nitish Kumar, 19, a delivery boy for online portals and a student of ITI, who sexually assaulted the woman and threw her to the ground, was arrested on January 5. Leno alias Lenin Patrick, 20, a helper in a private company and college stu dent, on whose scoot er Ayyappa accosted the woman; Su dhi alias Sud hesh, 20, and Somasekhara , both residents alias Chinni, 24, both residents of Fraser Town, were also arrested the same day .
 
 While Ayyappa and Leno entered the lane, Sudhi and Chinni were waiting on a twowheeler at the end of the road.James, 21, and Pappi, were on a third two-wheeler. James was arrested on January 7.
 
 A police source said Pappi fled Bengaluru after his associates were arrested, and took shelter in Velankanni. He later came to Anekal, and hid at a friend's place, they added.
 
 Pappi, a resident of Kammanahalli, knew about his friends' intentions, police said. “He had earlier harassed the survivor several times,“ police said.
 
 
 
 
 Acting on concrete information, police personnel in plainclothes swooped down and succeeded in nabbing Pappi near a church in Anekal on Monday morning.
 
 “Pappi was alert since the day CCTV footage of the molestation was shown on TV . He was clever and had stopped carrying mobile phones with him. Between January 2 and 5, Pappi stayed with his friend near Electronics City, before fleeing Bengaluru. He came to Anekal from Tamil Nadu on Sunday , and was taking shelter in a friend's place near the church, police sources said, adding, “We'll show his photo to the survivor. She has to identify him as one among those who would regularly harass her.“
 
