What do they know of faith who only faith know? And what is love if it doesn’t embrace one from the other flock? In these twin inquiries might lie the essence of the philosophy of the Sufis.

 Fittingly, at the end of a week when summer chased winter into the shadows, ‘The Sufis of Nizamuddin’, three hours of joy unbound, brought the curtain down on Gurgaon’s season of qawwalis. It was a night when one could gratefully take solace in the company of the mystics.
 
 More than 800 years ago, the   took root in the khanqas (shrines, from the Persian) of   and  . On Sunday, on a fragrant and breezy evening at the amphitheatre in the  , hours removed from the fierce glare of a Gurgaon day in March, the Nizami Bandhu called upon the spirit of their ancestors, the very first qawwals who sang of their love for Allah at the court of Nizamuddin.
 
 That, today, women and men, the elderly and the young, the devout and even the agnostic, continue to be enamoured by a form of devotional song that is almost a millennia old, is remarkable but also comforting. Comforting, because Sufism practices what it preaches, and speaks to the noblest ideals of humanity, even in these times, when humankind is being pounded by the hurricanes of hatred.
 
 Yet history has forever been wracked by hatreds, at times halted by the march of obscurantism, and never have the voices of qawwals like the Nizami Bandhu gone quiet. Because their message, of love and of oneness, is universal, and has always been so. And when expressed with as much transcendental energy as (on occasion) it was by the Bandhu, it can move the proverbial mountain. And touch the heart.
 
 On Sunday, the qawwals drunk from the wellspring of old Sufism, with ‘Man kunto maula’ and ‘Chaap tilak’ (Amir Khusro) harking back to a reassuring purity of vision, not just in the lyric, but also in the delivery. ‘Allah hoo’, meanwhile, invoked the beautiful soul (and the stirring melodies) of Ustad Nusrat Fateh Ali Khan. And listening to the glorious and life-affirming ‘Kun faya kun’ (A R Rahman) felt even more sublime under the night sky.
 
 The Nizami Bandhu engaged and bantered, happily, with the gathered. Still, if there was a cavil, it was this. The annoying (and discourteous) habit of some people to up and leave during the middle of a song, demonstrated that concert-going etiquette still eludes a fair few in these parts. Which is a pity, because many come to embrace, and be embraced by, the music, to appreciate the musical journey (and not just the journey’s end). Rare, after all, is the qawwali that fails to make believers of us all.
 
 
