JAIPUR: The   ( ) on Saturday registered a case against two former assistant general managers ( ) and two ex-chief managers of Syndicate Bank’s Jaipur and Udaipur branch , along with six others private persons including a CA and builders including Anoop Bartaria following a complaint lodged by the bank that the had accused caused a loss of Rs 200 crore to the bank.

 It was alleged in the complaint that the accused in criminal conspiracy with each other availed home loans and credit facilities from Jaipur & Udaipur branches of   on the basis of forged and fabricated documents. 
 
 “The funds so disbursed by Syndicate Bank were diverted and fraudulently siphoned off to the companies owned by accused persons, thereby causing an alleged loss to the bank,” CBI said in its statement. 
 
 The officials at CBI’s Jaipur branch told TOI that complaint was lodged at CBI’s New Delhi branch and teams have been carrying out searches at four locations in Jaipur and Ajmer, at the residence and offices of accused persons. Two accused are still in judicial custody and one accused is on bail on medical grounds in another case which was registered during March 2016 and chargesheeted by CBI.
 
 The CBI’s   (BSFC) is looking into the case as a follow-up to the complaint filed by the bank. “The accused mentioned in the FIR are former AGM A K Tiwari, Adarsh Manchanda and former chief managers D S Meena and Santosh Gupta,” a senior CBI official said, adding that searches were also conducted at offices and residences of six private persons, including one chartered accountant (CA) Bharat Bomb and his aides.
 
 The sleuths of CBI have registered a case under sections 420 (cheating) ,120 B (punishment of criminal conspiracy), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating) and 471 (using as genuine a forged document) of the IPC among others.
 
 “Special teams of CBI from New Delhi came to carry out searches, we merely face-lifted their operations. Teams are currently going through documents, this is national investigation and, therefore, we cannot divulge many details at this point in time,” said a senior official of Rajasthan branch of CBI. 
 
