I am a 24-year-old, single and happy-go-lucky guy. Recently, my   who's been   for two years came back into my life. We were in a relationship for about three years. And, I always felt it was more about sex than anything else. Soon after we broke up, she married one of her office colleagues, who is ten years elder to her. She had a love marriage with this guy against the will of both the families.
 
  We never spoke after she got married, but I always kept stalking her on Facebook. I think I used to miss her. Now after two years, she contacted me and we are dating each other once again. She's not happy in her marriage and keeps calling me to meet her. We also got   and are continuing the relationship despite her being married. She does not show any guilt and convinces me to keep meeting her. I have a lot of times tried to make her understand that this is not right and she should get back to her marriage, but she ignores the suggestion every time.
  
  I am a God-fearing person and feel guilty of cheating her husband. I have told her the same ample number of times, but it does not stop her from meeting me. Am I doing something really wrong by getting intimate with her? Please advise. 
 
  
  
  Well, it's not only the question of getting intimate but it's also about both of you investing emotions in a relationship, which is not going anywhere. It's unfortunate but very true, that in my practice I see many people who are dissatisfied in their marital life, seeking comfort and solace in extramarital relationships hoping to fill the void. It's very clear that you are enjoying the sex, while she is seeking comfort and validation from you which seems absent in her marriage. In my opinion, such relationships don't have much sustainability. Please introspect what you want from this relationship. If physical aspect is only the reason for you to bond with her, please move away, as in the longer run you might end up feeling guilty and low in your self-worth. Suggest to her that she needs to figure out why her marriage is going dysfunctional and she can surely fix that.
  
  
 
  
  Want expert advice for your relationship? Send us an email at expertadvice.toi@gmail.com
  
  
