HYDERABAD: Schools under the   ( ) in the city are gearing up, if they haven't already started, to compile data of students suffering from Type-I  . The board has agreed in principle to announce mid-exam 'snack break' for such students in the upcoming class 10 and 12 board exams.

 While some schools have been maintaining records, others have also started the practice so that a list can be submitted to the board when it asks them to give details.
 
 “At the time of admission itself, we ask parents to submit all medical records of students so that we are aware of students' condition. In our school, there are two children suffering from Type-1 diabetes,“ said Seetha Murthy, principal,  . “We are not doctors and having medical records will prepare us for emergency situations,“ she said, appreciating the CBSE's decision to provide a snack break for students.
 
 Anandavalli K, principal,  , said ensuring students health and safety will be easier with access to their medical records. “We don't maintain any special records, but ask parents to list out if their children need any special care. Now with CBSE's move, we will make a list of students suffering from this type of diabetes also,“ said Anandavalli. “Even before the board took the decision, we used to allow children with certain medical problems to have snacks in between classes,“ she said.
 
 The relief for diabetic students was considered by the CBSE after Dr Ashok Jhingan, chairperson of  , approached it on the matter. He buttressed his request with results from a study in four Kendriya Vidyalayas that had allowed its students with Type-1 diabetes to have a mid-exam snack.
 
 According to doctors, type-1 diabetic patients, need two to four insulin injections every day to keep their sugar levels balanced and should not have too long a break between snacks. Low sugar levels could cause headaches, irritability , restlessness, and confusion.
 
 CBSE will soon issue a notice that diabetic students will be allowed a snack break during exams -an hour or 90 minutes from the start of the test.
 
 In the city, there are 122 schools affiliated to the CBSE and approximately 15, 000 children are suffering from this type of diabetes.
 
