NEW DELHI: In a move that may leave parents further confused, the Delhi government on Thursday challenged the single judge   of the Delhi high court staying its   policy.

 In its appeal, the government said it disagrees with the interim order that stayed the “neighbourhood criteria” and has termed the direction “totally wrong”, “erroneous” and “against the law”, while seeking that it should be set aside.
 
 The single judge had said that “a student’s educational fate can’t be relegated to only his/her position on a map,” and termed the neighbourhood criteria as “arbitrary and discriminatory.” Justice Manmohan said the criteria benefitted only those parents who live close to good private schools.
 
 The government’s appeal, which is likely to be taken up for hearing on Friday, argues that “leaving it to schools to frame their own guidelines will only promote arbitrariness of private managements and lead to admissions in an opaque manner. This will help the school management to justify the exorbitant fees they charge”.
 
 The single judge had said the interim stay on the January 7 notification would remain in place till final disposal of the pleas challenging the Delhi government order. The government order directed private unaided schools to accept   admission forms based only on the neighbourhood or distance criteria.
 
 The court order came on petitions filed by parents and two school groups challenging the Delhi government’s December 19, 2016 and January 7 notifications that made 298 private schools, built on Delhi Development Authority land, to accept nursery admission forms based only on the neighbourhood or distance norm. DoE defended its decision by saying it was taken in the larger public interest.
 
 But the court had disagreed with the contention and said “children are uniformly affected by alleged factors of public interest and it cannot be said that public interest is to be served only in the case of children going to 298 schools and not to the other 1400-odd schools”. 
 
 
