BATHINDA: The renaming of a village in Bathinda district has divided its residents into two groups. The village   under Maur sub-division is now called Prem Kotli. “The village has a considerable population of   followers known as ‘premis’. The ‘premis’ had been trying for over two decades to name the village Prem Kotli,” said villager Jaspal Singh.

 More than 200 villagers on Thursday assembled outside the office of the Bathinda additional deputy commissioner (ADC) and alleged that renaming was done on August 4, 2016, ahead of state assembly elections to please a particular sect. The villagers urged the ADC to retain the old name failing which they warned of serious repercussions. 
 
 Irate villagers also said that that the panchayat on October 6, 2013 had orally passed a resolution to change the name of the village without making any entry in the proceeding book. The government had issued notification for changing the village’s name to Prem Kotli on August 4, 2016. 
 
 Village numberdar  , who led the team of protesters to the ADC’s office, said, “On learning about the name change on August 4, 2016, I had filed a complaint to the chief minister and deputy commissioner to revert the name of the village. The chief minister’s office (CMO) had referred the matter to the Bathinda DC’s office.” And he added, “Today, the ADC had called us to record our objections. We have asked the ADC to ask the panchayat to show the proceeding book where the sarpanch and panchs have made entry for the change of the name.” He said most of the residents of the village, with a population of nearly 4,000, want the name of the village to be reverted.
 
 Village sarpanch   said, “The panchayat in 1995, 1999 and in 2013 had passed resolutions to change the village’s name to Prem Kotli. On October 10, 2015 the Union government had sent a communication about the same. On August 4, 2016 the Punjab government’s revenue department issued a notification in which the village name was changed. Many of those opposing the move now had earlier supported the name change.”
 
 Bathinda ADC   said, “The case has been referred to me for investigations into the panchayat resolution. Both groups have come forward to record their statements and I am looking into the matter.” 
 
