By R Kannan

 The last organic student protests — in December 1967 — upended the three-language policy in Tamil Nadu on January 23, 1968 as students became concerned with Hindi becoming mandatory and acting as the primary vehicle for government jobs, promotions and social mobility. The Anti-Hindi Imposition Students Council, a non-partisan student body had forced the then DMK chief minister CN Annadurai’s hands to take action. The irony was that the same students had earlier, in February 1967 general elections prostrated at voters’ feet to canvass support for the DMK against the Congress; the students felt the Congress was apathetic to their genuine concerns and emotions on the language issue. Some of the student leaders later went on to become ministers and public figures associated with the Dravidian movement. 
 
 The students had organised themselves as early as January 1965. They stepped into the vacuum caused by the pre-emptive arrest of DMK leaders who had called to mark January 26 as a day of mourning (it was brought forward to January 25 later). The constitution stipulated January 26, 1965 as the day when Hindi would become the sole official language of the country, casting off English as an associate official language. 
 
 On January 25, around 50,000 students marched from Napier Park to Fort St George to petition Congress chief minister M Bhakthavatsalam to remove Hindi from the school curriculum. That evening at the  , students set Hindi books on fire as a symbolic act of defiance. This was just the beginning. Following news that a student rally in Madurai had come under attack that day, protests spread across the state like wildfire. Though these protests began peacefully, they soon grew violent thanks to infiltration by lumpen elements.
 
 Rioting, police firing and self-immolations by DMK cadres were to follow. Twenty nine city colleges were closed until February 1. As a temporary lull set in, the DMK leaders were released between February 1 and 2.
 
 The second week of February saw students re-launch their campaign. This time violence, arson and rioting were more marked. On February 10 alone, 21 people were killed and 60 injured in riots. The next day, two central ministers C Subramaniam and O V Alagesan resigned, triggering the then Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Shastri’s radio address to the nation holding out the promise to honour Nehru’s 1959 assurance that English would continue for "an indefinite period," and until the non-Hindi speakers wished it. Indira Gandhi had air-dashed to Madras prior to this. On February 12, the students suspended their agitation. Earlier, as the DMK’s hand was suspected, Anna told the   that his party had not made a single appeal encouraging the agitation, requesting the students to stop protesting. But there was no denying the fact that the Dravidian movement had prepared the ground — from as early as 1938. When it all ended this time, official estimates put the death toll at 60 including a student and two policemen.
 
 Approximately two years later, on December 19, 1967, students resumed their suspended protests. The Official Languages Amendment Act (1968) turning Nehru-Shastri assurance’s to reality, enabled English’s continuance but clearly discriminated against non-Hindi speakers (they could not sit for civil service exams in their mother tongue as Hindi speakers could; this was worked out later. Even today not all civil service exams can be taken in the regional tongues). Four days of violence ensued. Anna brushed aside the advice to use force against the students. Instead he engaged them personally for five days and accepted most of their demands.
 
 Tamil Nadu is now again witnessing a powerful spontaneous student protest and this time to champion jallikattu, an issue of identity more than jobs. Tamils should be grateful to PeTA for giving a fresh lease of life to an ancient sport. Further, PeTA has done what Karnataka’s heartlessness on the sharing of Cauvery waters or the ethnic issue could not do for Tamil solidarity. It has brought all Tamils together and had bettered even the 1965 performance. PeTA has again helped showcase ‘Tamil identity’ or ‘Tamilness’ — a commodity that fellow non-Tamil Indians are either incapable of understanding or are unwilling. And most importantly, it has shown that students can be responsible, mature and selfless — all qualities in short supply with most politicians.
 
 (The author is a biographer of Anna. His ‘M G Ramachandran: A Life’ is slated for publication in June)
 
 
