COIMBATORE: He is remembered as a textile technologist and an industrial sociologist among Coimbatoreans. The   is celebrating the centenary birth year of   this year. 

 In the memory of the founder director of South India Textile Research Association (SITRA), the Trust will be releasing the biography of Kasthuri Sreenivasan this weekend. Titled ‘A Life of Impact’, the book authored by Shobhana Kumar captures Sreenivasan as a textile technologist and philanthropist and a promoter of art.
 
 Says  : “The book tells you how Kasthuri Sreenivasan was a multi-faceted personality. His days in London, his contribution to the textile industry, his work for people affected with cancer and his love for art. He lived in London during the second World War. After seven years there, he returned to India with a British wife.” She says Kasthuri Srenivasan is an example for people today. 
 
 Kasthuri Sreenivasan was born in a village called Karadibavi on May 12, 1917. After his elementary education there, he joined the municipal school in Coimbatore. He went to Madras Presidency College for his bachelor’s degree in science and went to Manchester University, the United Kingdom, to pursue his masters in textile technology. During the Second World War Sreenivasan was working at the laboratories of Manchester Chamber of Commerce and when these labs were bombed, he worked at the labs of Cotton Industries Research Association.
 
 After returning to India, he set up a textile business, but soon realised it was not his cup of tea. He then set up the South India Textile Research Association, the foundation stone of which was laid by the country’s first prime minister Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru and was opened by India’s former vice-president S Radhakrishnan. In 1974, Sreenivasan became the chairman of the National Textile Corporation. 
 
 The book also talks about the writer in Kasthuri Sreenivasan. “He was one of the very few bilingual writers in the city. He wrote more than 25books in various genres like fiction, non-fiction, poetry, short stories and plays. He also translated Tirukkural, Sundara Kandam, Kamba Ramayanam and Silappadhilaram,” said Shobana Kumar. 
 
 His wife Barabara Sreenivasan was an artist, and the couple worked towards promoting artists in the region. “He started the Kasthuri Sreenivasan Trust in 1981 to promote arts, literature and to encourage artists. The Kasthuri Sreenivasan Culture Centre was built in 1988,” said  , the managing trustee of Kasthuri Sreenivasan Trust. 
 
