GANDHINAGAR: “If women, who are 50% of the country’s population, actively participate and are included in the nation building process, our country can achieve great heights,” said Prime Minister   at Gandhinagar on Wednesday. He was speaking at the   held on Wednesday at Mahatma Mandir as part of  .

 Modi gave away awards to women sarpanches chosen from across the country. These women had made significant contribution to the Swachh Bharat campaign. About 6,000 women sarpanches from across the country participated in the event.
 
 Modi said that the women sarpanches being honoured at the event had broken conventions. 
 
 “They have shown how a positive change has begun in our villages,” the PM said. “One can see their determination to make a qualitative difference to people’s lives.” 
 
 The hall was packed with a large audience of women even as many more were trying to get into the venue. Modi had arrived at the function a bit late as he had spent time at an exhibition on rural development initiatives in the country. “Some of the initiatives surprised me and were invigorating,” said Modi. 
 
 He said that 2019 will mark the 150th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi.
 
 “Gandhiji always said India lives in the villages,” Modi said. “Gandhiji also said cleanliness is more important than political freedom. You can imagine the commitment he had to cleanliness.” The PM added that the Swachh Bharat mission had covered 42 % villages in the first phase.
 
 Modi urged women sarpanches to take additional responsibility of ensuring that every girl child in their respective village goes to school and that campaigns against female foeticide are undertaken. Women sarpanches should stand by women who are victims of domestic violence, the PM said. He also urged them to undertake monthly meetings of teachers. 
 
 Modi claimed that more than 70,000 villages in the country had been declared free of the practice of ‘open defecation’. He said that an internal government study had shown how women sarpanchs are more efficient and focussed than their male counterparts. 
 
 “Those days when husbands of women sarpanches ran the village panchayats are long gone,” the PM said. “Today women are more eager to learn new things in the workplace. They have proved to be more sincere in delivering work.” Modi further said that women know how to mobilise resources to complete an assigned task.
 
