CHANDIGARH/JALANDHAR: There was   in March 2016 when a   survey predicted a massive win for them in the state elections in Punjab12 months on. It gave the rookie politicians hope of finally becoming a national party. Of the 117 seats in the state assembly , the survey gave AAP between 94 and 100 seats and people started talking about Arvind Kejriwal repeating a Delhi in Punjab. The ground had already been prepared with AAP winning four of Punjab's 13 Lok Sabha seats amid a Modi wave in 2014.

 But a series of missteps and miscalculations ensured that the party won just 20 seats one year down the line. AAP had got 24.5% votes in the state in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections and led in 34 assembly segments.This time its vote share came down to 23.8% and the party could win only 20 seats.
 
 Perhaps its biggest mistake was the overreaction to Opposition parties branding it as a gathering of `outsiders' who had no clue of Punjab's ethos. In a desperate bid to project themselves as a Punjabi party, AAP leaders went out of their way to win over Sikhs and even led to allegations from opposition parties that they were flirting with some hardline Sikh groups.
 
 Many observers feel this alienated the urban Hindu population, which has bitter memories of the Khalistan militancy days of the mid-1980s and early 1990s. Upset with the Akalis for their alleged misgovernance and the virtual absence of BJP in large swathes of the state, many Punjabi Hindus were uncomfortable with AAP playing the Sikh card so aggressively and chose to go with the Congress.
 
 There is also a belief that some RSS-backed organizations discreetly nudged their cadres to vote for Congress in a strategic attempt to keep AAP out of power. With the Akali-BJP alliance having no chance of coming to power, the Hindu organizations preferred a `limping' Congress to an aggressive AAP .
 
 Hindus constitute roughly 38% of Punjab's 2.8 crore population according to the 2011Census, which includes Dalits. BJP contested only 23 seats in the state, leaving the rest for Akalis.
 
 Deras' call to back SAD may also have dented AAP's vote share as Dalits form a major chunk of dera followers who identify with AAP.
 
 The `outsider' allegations started against AAP in early 2016 when it appointed nonPunjabis as observers in almost all constituencies, leaving many volunteers unhappy . Then in July 2016, the party threw out one of its most prominent Sikh faces, then Punjab convener Sucha Singh Chhotepur after a flimsy sting operation in which he was allegedly shown taking money . This added to the growing resentment among volunteers, many of whom even resigned from the party in protest.
 
 The very next month, AAP released its youth manifesto which had a picture of the Golden Temple and the `jhadu' symbol on it on the front page.AAP leader Ashish Khetan even compared the manifesto to the Guru Grant Sahib. Instead of winning over Sikhs, these moves upset many of them and gave ammunition to Shiromani Akali Dal and the Congress to attack it with the outsider tag.
 
 To make matters worse, of AAP's four MPs in Punjab, only Bhagwant Mann was actively campaigning this time. Dharamvira Gandhi in Patiala and H S Khalsa in Fatehgarh Sahib have been suspended from the party while Prof Sadhu Singh in Faridkot was missing in action.
 
 AAP also took a hit for not projecting a chief ministerial candidate. The party chose to pit Arvind Kejriwal's charisma against Captain Amarinder Singh's and Amarinder came out the winner in a largely personality-based campaign. “The halo around Kejriwal has disappeared as Amarinder exposed the gap between his words and deeds,“ said rebel AAP MP Khalsa.
 
 “The party has paid for the arrogance of Delhi-based party leaders,“ said AAP's founding member in Punjab Himanshu Pathak who joined Congress two weeks before polls. “The issue of Punjabis versus outsiders hurt AAP.“
 
