After housing, the next big concern for any Mumbaikar is to find parking in the city. With more cars than spaces to leave them in, this problem may just get worse with a latest proposal. From March onwards, no road or footpath will be available for free parking, except for a few designated spots and public spaces, as the state government has lifted its stay on a 2015 BMC policy regarding parking. While city residents are fuming at this development, especially in wards like  , taxi drivers say they will stop plying on roads if the proposal is passed.

 
 
 Mumbai’s taxi drivers are aggrieved over the pay-to-park proposal, stating parking has always been a problem for them. Says DA Salian, Mumbai Taxi Association secretary, “We are considered a symbol of Mumbai, but have no place for ourselves here. On paper, there are supposed to be several taxi stands, but in reality, close to 1,200 of them are missing from the roads — they’ve either been uprooted due to road widening or taken away by hotelwallahs.”
 He adds, “It's common to see private cars parked in the majority of the remainder stands. We have complained many times to the city police, but no action has been taken. We have demanded a separate parking zone, or even a place to station the vehicles, but haven’t got one.” 
 Ramesh Yadav, who has been driving a taxi in Mumbai for the last eight years, says, “Humko jagah hi nahi milti. Even if we stop to just go to the toilet, they tow away our vehicles.” 
 Salian further informs, “Taxi drivers are not economically sound to pay so much money to the BMC. In any case, app cab services have been eating into our incomes, and now this. With no way out, the kaali-peelis will have to leave Mumbai. Right now, with no charges, we do manage to park at a few spots. But with the new rule, things will be tough.” 
 He maintains that a separate parking lot for the taxis will solve a lot of problems. “What about malls? Why not issue the space there to us after a certain time? Every time, they cite security reasons for not letting us park there, but that’s just become another excuse. With roughly 40,000 new taxis plying today, where do we park them?”
 
 
 
 While parking charges will vary across the city as per the policy, issuing a pay-for-your-spot rule may not be feasible in all areas of Mumbai, especially in places like South Mumbai, which has no designated parking spaces to begin with. Atul Kumar of the   (NPCCA) says, “You cannot have a ‘one-size-fits-all’ policy in South Mumbai as this is the Old City. It came up in the 1950s when there was no concept of parking. Most SoBo buildings are on narrower roads and there is no basement parking, either. Besides, you have dense residential blocks with shops and restaurants in  . What happens if they all want to pay for parking? Residents, who in any case find it tough to park, may suffer. The implementation of the policy may be more feasible in north Mumbai, as the developments there are newer and buildings come with basement parking.” He also points out that paying `60 an hour to park is too high. “We are said to have the richest corporation, why charge us so much?” asks Kumar.
 
 
 
 Ashok Rao of the   says the policy will need to be well-regulated. “Today, so many people park cars at A Road and B Road at Churchgate, take a train and go home, leaving no space for those who reside close by. So, in a way, the policy will be good for them. But if you say ‘one slot per car’, what about those residents who have already got a spot in the building compound? If they buy another parking, they will have two slots. Then where will the others go? All that needs to be taken into account by the BMC.” He has a suggestion. “Why not hand over the parking to the residents’ associations? We are more aware of how many families are there and the number of cars they own. And we will ensure that parking rules are fair to all,” he adds. 
 
 
 
 Anamika Avinash Bhalerao, the first woman to drive a rickshaw in Thane, says she doesn’t know how she will manage either. “It will be very tough if they take away free parking. There are a few stands for rickshaws, but there are no parking slots for us women drivers. So far, we have been sharing these slots with our male counterparts. While some of them let us to do so, others just tell us to go somewhere else. We have to struggle to park our vehicles even in a free spot. If that also goes, what will we do?” she asks.
 
 
 
 • From March onwards, free parking may be taken away from Mumbai’s roads and footpath areas.
 • The exception to this is a few designated tourist spots and public places like Girgaum, Juhu Chowpatty and Gateway Of India.
 • A single slot will be available per car owner. Housing societies have to get in touch with their local ward office to know the particulars.
 
 
 
 The rates will be different on Sundays and public holidays. 
 
 As per the policy’s residential scheme, a car can be parked on the road from 8pm to 8am (night-time rates) for monthly charges varying from Rs 1,980 to 660 as per the category. 
 
 Day-time charges will be in the range of Rs 3,960 to 1,320.
 
 
 
