AHMEDABAD: Sleuths of the Income-Tax Department were deeply embarrassed when they found that what they had thought to be black money actually belonged to the city crime branch.

 In their enthusiasm for applause, some taxmen rushed on Friday to police inspector Shankar Chaudhari’s house in Ghatlodia for a search. They had just received a tip-off that Rs 52 lakh ‘black money’ was kept in his account.
 
 However, the I-T team had to return empty-handed from the police inspector’s house after it was revealed that his bank account was the official account of the city crime branch. The Rs 52 lakh kept in the account was money the crime branch had seized after demonetization.
 
 On learning of taxmen’s raid, crime branch officials immediately came forward to defend Chaudhari.
 
 Even the version of the incident given by the two agencies differs. Sources in the I-T department said it was a survey operation. But city crime branch officials said the tax department had slapped a notice on Chaudhari without proper verification of the account holder. Police officials said the money in question was cash seized after demonetization and was deposited in the crime branch’s official account in  . It was not deposited in Chaudhari’s private bank account.
 
 DCP (crime branch)   said following the court’s directives after demonetization, they had deposited a total of Rs 52,67,260 in the crime branch’s official account in Bank of India in six transactions since December 16 last year. The account number is 200020110000124.
 
 “As part of procedure, the PAN number of the account holder is required. For this the numbers of police inspector   and the DCP are attached to the bank account,” Bhadran said.
 
 The DCP further said that just on the basis on the PAN number, the I-T department had slapped a notice on Chaudhari.
 
 Chaudhari phoned PSI about ‘tax raid’
 
 Sources said Shankar Chaudhari had been sent an online notice sometime back as more Rs 52,67,260 was found in his Bank of India account with his PAN card details. Chaudhari had not checked his mail and hence did not reply to the notice. On Friday, a team of I-T officials reached Chaudhari’s house at   in Ghatlodia to deliver the notice in person. As Chaudhari was in Bihar, his wife refused to allow the I-T officials in the flat and demanded their identity cards. She simultaneously phoned Chaudhari and informed him about the I-T notice. Chaudhari then called his deputy, PSI CB Chaudhary, who was in the high court at that time. After the court proceedings over,   rushed to Shivam Arcade with his squad. After exchange of angry words between the police and I-T officials, senior I-T official Laxmi Iyer rushed to the spot and asked the police not to obstruct them in discharge of their duty. Residents of the apartment also gathered, including a retired DSP who trying to sort of things. Sources said the I-T officials had then gone to Ghatlodia police station to file an application against the cops for obstructing government officials in discharge of their duty.
 
