COIMBATORE:   on Sunday relaunched its services in the city after a gap of nearly 10 years, with the first flight from Colombo landing at Coimbatore airport at 2.35pm. With this, Coimbatore has become the fourth city in   and 14th in the country where SriLankan Airlines has its presence.

 Between 2003 and 2008, SriLankan Airlines operated a flight from the city, but it was suspended. “We stopped the service owing to commercial and operational commitments. But now, we have thoroughly studied the market and strongly feel the city has a lot of potential to be tapped. So, we have started operations again,” said  , chief operating officer of SriLankan Airlines.
 
 To begin with, SriLankan Airlines will operate four times a week. The airline has, however, plans to launch daily services by next season.
 
 “On the first day of operation we recorded more than 80% passenger load,” Ramachandran said. This is a positive sign for the airline. As of now, the plan is to operate flights on Sunday, Tuesday, Thursday and Friday. 
 
 “If we continue to clock good passenger load, we may launch daily services between the city and Colombo. This could be implemented next season (October), but a lot depends on aircraft availability,” he added.
 
 With the introduction of Coimbatore-Colombo operations, SriLankan Airlines will be operating 126 flights to the country every week, of which 60 flights are to Tamil Nadu -- 35 to Chennai, 14 to Trichy, seven to Madurai and four to Coimbatore.
 
 The flight to Colombo will benefit travellers from Coimbatore to connect to Middle East, Far East and Australia. “We are commencing operations to Melbourne in October. This will help students studying in the state of Victoria and   to reach India easily,” Ramachandran said.
 
 Given the fact that Madurai and Trichy are five hours by road from Coimbatore, SriLankan Airlines will have to price its tickets competitively. “The fall in passenger will be only marginal in Madurai and Trichy. At the same time, Coimbatore is a big catchment area as we expect passengers from Kerala to board the flight from here,” Ramachandran said.
 
 SriLankan Airlines is also studying the Coimbatore market for freight services. “We have been consistently studying the market and when the right time comes, we might initiate freight operations too,” he said. 
 
 
