It’s not uncommon for politicos to blurt out inconsiderate statements that undermine the democratic rights of women in this country. It happened once again, when two days before International Women’s Day, Maneka Sanjay Gandhi, the Minister for Women and Child Development, stirred a fresh controversy with her views at a panel discussion. She justified early curfew for girls staying in hostels, saying it was needed to protect them from their ‘own hormonal outbursts’. Though she later tried to make light of her comment by saying that the ‘lakshman rekha’ wasn’t only for girls, and that there should be curfews for boys as well, the damage was done.

 Her rather ill-timed comment has re-ignited the issue about early curfews for women in hostels and has outraged students. While students of   staged a protest at the minister’s office, we found out that Mumbai’s youngsters are no less peeved.
 
 
 
 Yutika Joshi, a hostel resident and an architecture student from a private university in Panvel is shocked by the minister’s statement. “Lakshman rekha? What’s that? What one does entirely depends on their upbringing. 16 or 30, age is just a number and cannot justify her statement,” slammed Yutika.
 Second year junior college student Ashna Sinha from   added, “I don’t believe that being a young woman with ‘hormonal changes’ is a problem and we need curfews. It’s a natural body process, which has nothing to do with women’s safety. So, a lakshman rekha cannot solve the problem.” 
 
 
 
 Hostels already have enough restrictions. Gautami Khandke, a TYBMM student of KPB Hinduja College, who is originally from Pune, rued, “My hostel deadline is 9 pm and it anyway takes a lot of freedom away from our college life. If we return home around 10-10.30 at night, people say that we are wasting our parents’ money and have come to the city just to ‘enjoy’. So, we are anyway conscious of what we are doing and how we are leading our lives. On my part, I ensure that my parents are aware of what I’m up to and where I am going.”
 Fatemeh Mirjalili, a third year mass media student from  , could not hide her bewilderment. “If there is an early curfew for boys and girls at hostels, I believe that should be with regards to a hostel’s discipline policy. There is no need for a lakshman rekha to be drawn... We are well in control of our own lives,” she said.
 
 
 
 Shanaya Boyce, a final year psychology student from Jai Hind College, says, “If hormonal ‘outbursts’, as she calls it, are to take place, do you really think the time of day matters? You mean to say we can’t have the same urges during the day, at non-restricted hours? Also, how can you stereotype the 16-17 age group? Each person has a different level of maturity. It’s okay to have a deadline for safety concerns. But blaming hormones? That’s absolutely absurd!” 
 
 
 
 What has surprised many students is that such a callous statement has come from a woman who is handling an important portfolio. Mallika Kelkar, a final year mass media student of KC College, asserted, “Her statement, in a way, just reaffirms the belief many people have — rapes are the victims’ fault. A statement like this coming from the Minister of Women and Child Development isn’t a step towards woman empowerment.”
 Rhea Dhillon, a TYBSc student from  , who hails from Delhi, added, “It’s the same old mentality, which expects girls to stick to stereotypes, dress conservatively, watch their timings and not ‘hang out’ with boys. It finally boils down to blaming the victim. This takes away from the fundamental rights of a person and defeats the purpose of democracy.”
 
