BHOPAL: Madhya Pradesh chief minister   announced a total   in the state from May 1. Chouhan, who expressed grave concern over increasing use of polythene carry bags and their consumption by cattle, had earlier declared prime tourist destinations and holy cities in the state polythene free from January 1.

 “Instead of polythene, which is harmful to the environment, paper and cloth will be used in their place”, he said after hoisting the national flag on the occasion of the 68th Republic Day celebrations.
 
 The chief minister said that a cleanliness campaign is being undertaken in the state after Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit. “One of the main hindrances in keeping cities clean is the use of polythene packets and that is the reason it will be banned from the month of May”, said Chouhan.
 
 “Anybody caught using polythene will be penalised. Use of polythene carry bags and their littering was affecting the environment and hindering cleanliness drives. Besides, cows are dying due to consuming polythenepackets”, said Chouhan.
 
 The chief minister said that the state government has given three months to polythene manufacturers before effecting the ban, underlining the need of promoting carry bags made of cloth and paper.
 
 Earlier, in December the chief minister had said that ban on polythene will be enforced with effect from January 1 at important tourist destinations and holy cities of Ujjain, Amarkantak, Khajuraho, Pachmarhi, Maheshwar, Omkareshwar and Orchha.
 
 The chief minister also announced to run a campaign for cashless transactions, advocated for provisions of stringent punishment for criminals of heinous crimes and called upon the people to quit alcohol and drugs.
 
 Chouhan further said that the state government has also resolved to free the region from open defecation by March 31. Lauding Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s demonetisation move, the chief minister said that MP will run a campaign for cashless transactions.
 
 “The demonetisation move was a decisive step against terrorism, black money and corruption. People of the state have stood behind the demonetisation move,” Chouhan added.
 
 Chouhan also said that under Modi’s dynamic leadership, the country was witnessing all round development.Chouhan said that MP’s GDP growth rate was above 10 per cent since the last couple of years and the agriculture growth rate was over 20 per cent since last four years, adding that the state was on top in terms of growth in the country. He called upon the people to plant a sapling every year and urged the rich to take care of a malnourished child. 
 
 Earlier, Chouhan hoisted the national flag on behalf of governor   Kohli, who is also the Gujarat governor. A cultural programme was also organised by the students of various schools and tableaux were displayed during the ceremony.
 
 
