THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Ahead of the crucial GST council meeting that will discuss the categorization of tobacco products on Saturday, experts with the   umbrella have appealed to the Union finance minister to include all tobacco products, including beedis, in the demerit goods category. In a letter to the minister, they also expressed disappointment over the proposed increase of only 6% tax on tobacco products in the  .

 They pointed out that classifying different products in lower rate slabs will lead to distortion and prompt users to switch to lower priced products, including beedis, damaging their health in the process.
 
 “Increasing the prices of tobacco products to dissuade the ir use is the need of the hour in the wake of reiterated evidence on the relation between tobacco use and cancers in the country . All tobacco products should be taxed at equal rates to prevent switching over from a higher priced product to a low priced one,“ said Tobacco Free Kerala chairman and Regional   Centre director Dr   here.
 
 “Unless corrective measures are taken in the implementation of GST by bringing all tobacco products under the highest demerit rate of 28% and the highest possible cess, it would be a severe blow to public health in India,“ said IIT Jodhpur assistant professor Rijo John. In the Union Budget 201718, additional excise and basic excise duties (BED) on various tobacco products amounted to an increase of only 6% in the total excise duty on almost all tobacco products. In case of beedis, the total increase on paper-rolled hand-made beedis was 25%. However, paper-rolled beedis constitute only a miniscule portion of the beedi market, as the majority 98% of all beedis are tendu-rolled or hand-made.
 
 According to the latest   , beedis are the most commonly used tobacco product in India, accounting for 64% of all tobacco consumption and are disproportionately consumed by the poor. While beedis are considered a poor man's pleasure, the reality is that beedis are the bane of India's poor and not taxing them heavily to reduce consumption is extremely anti-poor, the letter points out.
 
 The   has said that taxation is clearly the best way to tackle the tobacco epidemic.
 
