BENGALURU: The copious amount of information readily available in the public domain notwithstanding, the stigma associated with having a disabled child at home appears to be so deeply entrenched in the collective mindset of Indian society that few couples volunteer to adopt kids with special needs.

 Between April 2013 and March 2016, special kids accounted for just 2% of all in country adoptions. That specially-abled children accounted for 52% of all inter-country adoptions (Indian kids adopted by foreigners) in the same period sets the measly figure in stark contrast. Data accessed from   (CARA) reveals that, of the 11,975 children who were adopted by Indian couples in the three-year period, a mere 276 were differentlyabled. Also, sources said that majority of these children were only those with minor disabilities, and not affected by genetic disorders or any severe medical conditions. On the other hand, 975 of the 1,863 children adopted by foreigners from India were those with special needs.
 
 Sociologist   said, “All this talk about children being images of God, remains just that. But we cannot blame the couples completely either. You will find many of them being involved in charity , donating money to special schools, and so on. But they are reluctant to adopt such children, and take them into their homes. In fact, I have come across parents who are willing to give up disabled children of their own.“
 
 While Samata attributes the reluctance among Indian couples to the pervasive societal attitude towards such children, experts point to the lack of facilities ­ including access to healthcare and education ­ for differently-abled kids as another problem that couples have to contend with in the country . “In America and other countries, there are schools, medical facilities and infrastructure for such children. But that isn't the case in India.However, let's not discount the effect that stigma has on the decision making process of couples,“ said former chairperson of CARA Dr  .
 
 Having adopted a child with special needs herself, Aloma said that she was aware of how society looked at them. “Some even say it's Karma. But, what they don't realise is that what these children bring into our lives is way more than what we can ever give them,“ she added.
 
 Experts also observed that instances of Indians inquiring, of their own accord, about differently-abled children were rare. “Nearly all of them who come in first ask if they can get a child without any disorder. There is never any room for debate there,“ one of them said. Furthermore, children in the 0-4 age group accounted for 91.6% (10,761) adoptions between 2014 and '16, while 6.7% of them were kids aged between four and eight years. Kids aged from eight to 18 are the least preferred. “The perception is that the younger the child, the more easily it adapts to the family ,“ Aloma said.
 
 TIMES VIEW
 
 In the recent past, India has taken gigantic strides in science and technology ­ the   being the most memorable. However, the reluctance among Indian couples to adopt children with special needs is indicative of the large gap in our social development. Although it's easy to fault Indians for their failure to look beyond  , one cannot turn a Nelson's eye to the absence of facilities that might deter even those couples interested in raising these children. The government, and the people need to come together to address the situation, and ensure that these children with unique talents and abilities, are not neglected.
 
