LUCKNOW: In Uttar Pradesh, at least 1   officer was transfered every day during the 5-year regime of the   that ended with the   in the recently held assembly elections. On an average, the cadre strength of 407 IPS   in the state, there were 2,454 transfers between March 2012 and March 2017 when the   was in place. As many as 215 IPS officers were   five or more times during this period.

 This was in gross violation of the Supreme Court guidelines on Police Reforms in which a tenure of two years was fixed for every officer on field posting unless and until there were specific reasons to establish his incompetence. 
 
 The statistics, that came to the fore on an RTI query by social activist Nutan Thakur, revealed that as many as 78 officers were transferred more than nine times during the 5-year-period with officers like Umesh Kumar Srivastava and Anees Ahmad Ansari, facing 20 and 18 transfers, respectively. Similarly, Rajendra Prasad Pandey faced 17 transfers and Dilip Kumar was shifted 16 times. Five IPS officers, including recently suspended Himanshu Kumar were transferred 15 times each.
 
 “The frequent transfers of officers on field posting–including of everyone right from police station in charge to the DGP–directly effects the performance of the police as frequent reshuffling, which is usually a result of whim and fancies of the political masters, leaves hardly any scope for the officer to understand the field challenges in terms of nature of crime and criminals topography of the region,” said former UP police chief Vikram Singh. He said though a Civil Services Board (CSB) led by chief secretary is in place to scrutinise “unwanted” transfers, such entities usually miss the mark.
 
 Interestingly, while officers in field postings were transferred frequently, those in the side postings were largely left undisturbed. The long list of such officers includes Sanjay Tarde, who was transferred once to CBCID and remained there all through and Kamal Saxena who was transferred once to the home department. “Going by statistics available, an average of more than one IPS officer was transferred per day during the entire Akhilesh Yadav regime that lasted 5 years,” said Nutan Thakur who obtained the details of transfers from IG (personal) PC Meena against an RTI.
 
