JAIPUR: A high 33% of government-run schools in Rajasthan do not meet norms for student-pupil ratio set by  , 2009. Over 20% of children in the state fall in the out-of-school category. “There is no power supply in 60,000 schools and 23% of schools don’t have separate toilet for girls. State also shows snail’s pace in civil works,” says a report brought out jointly by   (CRY) and  , which analyzed the situation in 10 states of the country. The report also found high government spend on non-government schools – in UP for instance, half the school education budget of government feeds private schools.

 Speaking at a discussion on the aforesaid findings in Jaipur on Thursday, Ambarish Rai, convenor of   said, “Years ago, when Gandhiji met leaders at Wardha, there was a proposal to utilise the tax from alcohol by funding education. Gandhiji rejected the proposal. Governments have always been pleading that they do not have funds for education. Nowhere in the world, however, has universalisation of education occurred without government funds. India cannot have aspirations to be a global player if it has a sick, poor and uneducated population. The government cannot wash its hands of education. There is an education cess – and this now constitutes about 65% of all government funding of education. This shows the priority of our government. Even Nepal spends a larger proportion of its GDP on education than India. We are hearing talk of skilling and vocational education, and we witness shrinkage in research. These are dangerous trends.”
 
 Rai also commented on the reliability of data generated from government sources – the number of children out of school, he said, was 8.4 crore according to the Census of 2011. By 2013, it was shown to have reduced to 60 lakhs. “How is that possible?” he asked, adding that even if the number of children out of school is estimated to be 60 lakhs which is still a very high number.
 
 In Rajasthan, the government has set about shutting down a large number of schools at a time when there are over 20% of children out of school, writers of the report pointed out.
 
 Rai also spoke of constant reiteration of the need for  . “The output from offers like free laptops, for instance, remains not studied,” he said, adding that apart from “skills”, there is also a social purpose to education. “Children must learn of our great diversity. Education is a social concern that should help us in living in harmony with each other.” This goal, Rai said, is being lost in the din around making classrooms “smart”. 
 
