BENGALURU: After spreading cement with a silver trowel and laying the foundation stone for the   -on July 13, 1951,  , the  , had said: “...you are not building merely a house for your debates but a temple dedicated to the nation.“

 The iconic building was inaugurated five years later.
 
 Six decades later, Vidhana Soudha remains to be  , standing tall without a single crack on its walls.
 
 The state gov ernment plans to organize the diamond jubilee celebrations of Vidhana Soudha this month, the exact dates will be de cided following confirmation from President Ram Nath Kovind, who will preside over the function. “Vidhana Soudha completing 61 years is a major event, and it has to be celebrated,“ said law minister TB Jayachandra, whose four decades of political life has revolved around Vidhana Soudha. “No matter how rich and wealthy a politician is, he has to do good to the people to get a seat in Vidhana Soudha,“ he added.
 
 This is what motivated Kengal Hanumanthaiah, Karnataka's second CM and the brain behind the Vidhana Soudha project, to put in place the great edifice. In fact, the plan to build a house of legislature was mooted during the tenure of first CM KC Reddy. Soon, a blueprint was prepared and the foundation stone for the building, cost of which was pegged at Rs 20 lakh then, was laid by  .
 
 It was around that time that Hanumanthaiah (who was deputy leader of the Congress party) had reportedly told Reddy that the building plan did not appear to be grand. Reddy smiled at him and said: “You will be the next CM and you can implement your ideas.“
 
 When Hanumanthaiah became the CM in 1952, he convened a meeting of his officers, engineers and chief architect, and told them to redraw the building design so that it represents the aspirations of the people and reflects the culture of the region. The change of design was executed following queries from a visiting Russian delegation that Hanumanthaiah had taken around the city. “Every now and then they asked: Have you no architecture of your own? They are all European buildings,“ he had said.
 
 Describing Hanumanthaiah's intentions, former IAS officer TP Issar wrote in his book “The City Beautiful“ that the building “would not only be functional as a secretariat and a model of spaciousness, but which should become the prime edifice of the city ­ a “people's palace“ symbolising in its very appearance the seat of government“. Hanumanthaiah christened the building Vidhana Soudha and he wanted it to mirror the shift of power from Mysuru Palace to the legislature. Issar had described Vidhana Soudha as “the largest legislature-cum-secretariat building in the country“. It was completed in 1956 by a team of engineers and architects led by BR Manickam, and inaugurated when Kadidal Manjappa was the CM.
 
 The stone structure reflects the `Neo-Dravidian' style of architecture. The 700-feet long and 350-feet wide building is 150-feet tall from the floor level to the top of the central dome. The construction phase was marked by several high-profile visits including by then Yugoslavia president Josip Broz Tito.
 
 While Rashtrakavi Kuvempu described Vidhana Soudha as `poetry in stone', former journalist and author CM Ramachandra says: “If Taj Mahal was the symbol of love, Vidhana Soudha was an ode to popular supremacy and freedom and independence.“
 
