GAYA: It was on May 7 last year when  , the   schoolboy, was killed allegedly by  , son of MLC   for overtaking the latter’s SUV. One year has passed and justice eludes Shyam Sundar Sachdeva and Chand Sachdeva, the parents of Aditya. The   (SC) has set September 5, 2017 deadline for the completion of trial.
 
  The trial is taking place in the court of additional district and sessions judge S P Mishra. Three of the four accused of the case are on bail, while the SC cancelled the high court order granting bail to Rocky, the main accused.
  
  Backtracking by at least six key witnesses, including four of Aditya’s friends who were present in the car in which Aditya was gunned down, according to legal experts, has somewhat weakened the case. The other two witnesses, who turned hostile, happen to be security guards of Rocky’s mother Manorama.
  
  Four of the witnesses virtually disowned their own statement made before a first class judicial magistrate as per the provisions of the Indian Penal Code.
  
  Conceding that the hostile witnesses have weakened the case against Rocky, public prosecutor Sartaj Ali Khan said the damage was only marginal and the culprits would be brought to justice.
  
  Khan attributes his optimism about the final outcome to the available scientific evidence, including the match between the bullet parts recovered from Aditya’s body and Beretta pistol belonging to Rocky and the accused’s location as determined by the cellphone tower.
  
  “The forensic evidence against the accused is strong enough to neutralise the effects of witnesses turning hostile,” said Khan. He was made public prosecutor in the midst of trial following the series of hostile witnesses. Former public prosecutor S D N Singh piloted the case in the initial stages of the trial.
  
  In the initial stage itself, the state government offered CBI inquiry if the parents wanted so. Expressing confidence in the local police, the victim’s parents had politely rejected the offer.
  
  Despite hiccups and delay, the family members of Aditya have not lost hope. “Aditya’s parents and other family members are hopeful of justice in the case,” said a source close to the family.
