GURUGRAM: Questions are again being raised over the quality of education in government schools across the district, days after the government was embarrassed after Gurugram came second from bottom in the district-wise   of the  . Results for the   boards, which were released by Board of School Haryana, Bhiwani, on Monday, revealed here too, pass percentage has fallen.

 With only 43.68% of students passing the exams, which is lower than even last year’s 51.71%, Gurugram is once again among the worst performing districts in the state. In the Class XII results announced last week, the pass percentage was 41. The dismal results couldn’t have come at a worse time for the district education department, which is already mired in a crisis over fee hike in private schools, which is being opposed by parents.
 
 Out of 13,632 students who appeared in the Class X board exam from Gurugram, only 5,955 students have passed. The best performing district is Jhajjar, with 65.47% students passing, while Faridabad was once again the worst performing district, with only 38.80% passing in the exam.
 
 Across the state, 50.49% of students have passed. Once again, girls fared better than boys, by a margin of 8.78%. While 55.3% of girls have passed, only 46.52% of boys managed to get through. When TOI called district education officer Neelam Bhandari, she didn’t answer the calls. However, teacher’s associations blamed the government’s policy of frequent teacher transfers as a key reason why results had fallen.
 
 “From Class IX to Class XII, schools used to have the same teachers,” said  , member of Haryana Vidyalaya Adhyapak Sangh. He aded, “Last year, the government reshuffled over 10-12 thousand teachers. Obviously, it disrupted the education in government schools.”
 
 Yadav also blamed RTE rules which prevent schools from failing any student till Class VIII. “When students don’t have to sit in exams, they become complacent. When faced with exams in Class IX and Class X, those who are not used to studying till Class VIII are unable to live up to expectations.”
 
 Students who spoke to TOI appeared clueless. They could not immediately blame anyone for their poor results. “I was taught quite well in my school, and scored over 48%,” said Manoj, a student of Government Senior Secondary School, Chakkarpur. Asked if he felt the education at his school was below par, he said, “I don’t believe that.”
 
 
