PATNA:   (PU) is set to offer proficiency courses in certain foreign and Indian languages from the next calendar year.

 According to academics, the demand for youths having proficiency in foreign languages keeps on growing in the current phase of global economy, but few institutions in Bihar offer even a certificate or diploma course in foreign languages. Consequently, the aspirants are compelled to join institutions outside the state. 
 
 The PU decision to start language proficiency courses is, therefore, a welcome step, said the academics.
 
 PU’s English department teacher and coordinator of foreign language courses Indiber Mukherjee said the university would launch six-month courses of language proficiency in German, French and Spanish as well as Korean and Chinese, to start with. The academic session will commence next January, he said. 
 
 Courses in Indian languages like Bengali, Tamil, Telugu and Assamese would also be launched simultaneously. PU’s Bengali department head   is the coordinator of Indian language courses.
 
 Academic qualifications in foreign languages helps in pursuing a career in areas such as tourism, entertainment, public relations and mass communication, international organizations, embassies, diplomatic service, publishing houses and BPOs. Skills in French, German, Russian, Chinese and more recently Japanese, Spanish and Korean are in great demand.
 
 PU used to conduct certificate courses in French and German in the 1960s and 1970s. While PU’s English department teacher   used to teach French, the German wife of PU zoology teacher   would engage classes in German. Later, geology teacher  , who had done doctorate from France, engaged French classes.
 
 The certificate courses in these foreign languages had to be shut due to a row over the rate of remuneration to the faculty in the early 1980s. 
 
 According to a study conducted by an international research company, there will be a potential demand for over two lakh foreign language professionals in the Indian offshoring industry by 2020.
 
 PU’s English department head Shiva Jatan Thakur said a career in foreign language is an attractive proposition for those who have a flair for languages. With the globalisation of Indian economy, multinationals coming to India and more and more companies going for joint ventures abroad, the job scenario for those proficient in foreign languages has brightened, he said.
 
