AHMEDABAD: It took a little over two months for city police to nab the man who allegedly attacked the daughter of a senior IPS officer, who is away on deputation, at their home on November 27. Investigators arrested 19-year-old  , a native of Chhattisgarh, who was working in the same block as a domestic help for another IPS officer. He claims the alleged assault took place when he was caught unaware of her presence after breaking into the apartment.

  Patel was caught attempting a theft at the home of the IPS officer for whom he worked, in the early hours of February 2.
 
 Ashutosh Parmar, ACP, B Division, told mediapersons on Friday that Madhu Singh, the wife of Surat range IGP Shamsher Singh, woke up at her home on the sixth floor of E Block of   at 1.30am on February 2 to take medication. She saw someone lurking in the shadows in the dining room. She tried to catch the man and switched on the light, but the man was gone.
 
 “On the basis of the man’s appearance, she suspected it was their domestic help Sonu Patel. To confirm this, she knocked on the door of his room. He first didn’t open the door for about 15-20 minutes. When he finally did, he was panting heavily. She immediately informed senior police officials and registered a  ,” said Parmar.
 
 Investigators said that when Patel’s quarters were checked police found a high-end wristwatch and Rs 13,800 in cash. 
 
 “On November 21, Patel had entered the home of the deputed IPS officer’s and had stolen these valuables. The family were away at that time. On November 27, he saw the lights switched off again and decided to chance his luck. The front door was not properly locked so he gained entry and started looking. The presence of the girl, which he had not anticipated, frightened him,” said investigators.
 
 When he tried to assault and strangle her, she retaliated, kicking him and forcing him to flee. In her statement, she said the assailant fled by the stairs. Patel had indeed fled via the stairs and returned to his quarters before the intensive search for the intruder began.Parmar said police had collected fingerprints of 77 persons including domestic helps and others working at Samarpan Tower after the incident. “Patel’s fingerprint match perfectly chance prints lifted from a glass surface at the scene of the crime. The recovered stolen goods, reported missing by the family, also link him to the crime,” he said.
 
 ‘Kept to himself’
 
 The Singh family were shocked by the revelation that their domestic help was involved in crimes such as assault and theft. 
 
 “The incident has shocked us. He had come with a good reference and was efficient in his work. However, he kept to himself and we never saw him mingle with other helps when they met on the ground floor at the end of the day. In normal circumstances, a person would not break the law right in a colony full of senior police and government officials. We are supporting the probe,” said a family member. Sonu, a native of Chhattisgarh, earlier worked for a supplier of diesel to coal mines in his native place. He studied up to class III only. His parents are vegetable vendors, said investigators. They added that Sonu had a remarkable ability to scale the buildings from outside — the skill he used to leave his quarters and go one floor up. Police say he had tried to steal a phone that was charging at the IPS officer’s residence on November 27, which gave investigators a clear thumb and palm print.
 
