Footballer  's recent job termination for the lack of attendance, from the Accountant General's office in Trivandrum has brought to the fore a heated discussion. While the players say that a person recruited via   should be given time off to pursue the game, officials and veteran players give their reasons that result in the job loss. Kochi Times listens in: 

 
 
 
 
 Sportspersons say that while they are offered jobs as reward to their achievements, the first thing they are often asked to do is to say goodbye to   and be in office, regularly. C K Vineeth says, “We are forced to choose between the two – sports or job. How does it help a sportsperson or even the development of sports in our country? Being on the field regularly is important to sharpen your game and thus, it is not possible for an active sportsman to hang his boots, if the game matters to him.”
 
 Former President of Kerala Sports Council,  , says that she has observed the reluctance to grant leaves among employers. “In Kerala, though sportspersons are offered jobs they won’t be given a single day of leave in any departments. From the day they join, they should be present in office. In other States, that is not the case. Imagine a talented sportsman taking up a job at the age of 21 and being forced to consider that a full stop to his career!”
 
 Ask her the reason for denying leave and she says, “If they win a medal or procure an achievement of the sort, they should be given promotion. Many a times, their contemporaries and seniors at workplace wouldn’t like a sportsperson climbing the professional ladder without being at office. What they forget is that just as they are moving a file for the country, the sportsperson is also using the prime years in their life for the country or state. There is a lot of sweat and grit behind such an achievement too and that is what’s getting lauded through a job or promotion.”
 
 Kerala Sports Council Vice President Mercy Kuttan also agrees with her. “Sometimes, the officials in the department even do not listen to the Sports Minister. It’s the sweat and blood of the sportsmen spent on the field and they do not see it. This is why many even leave sports field here.”
 According to a Department of Personnel and Training rule for Central Government officers that was enforced in 2013, those hired via sports quota should be used for the development of sports after their career in the sport, points out Anju. “I’m not sure how many departments are following it diligently, either.”
 
 Veteran athlete   asks, “Why don’t they offer the jobs to those retired from sports, if their intention is to make them sit in the office, rather than be on the ground?” She adds, “A recruitment in sports quota itself means a person would be given enough leaves to practise, go for championships, without worrying about their future. Even things like cutting salary can be understood but terminating a sportsperson’s job for low attendance doesn’t make sense.”
 
 Mercy Kuttan says in places like the Secretariat, no promotion is given while you are actively pursuing sports and it has affected many youngsters, even those who have represented India. “You won’t get seniority also despite the year of joining. There should be a solution for all this. This is true in the case of Customs, Central Excise and Income Tax as well. They even have to pass a variety of exams and tests and are expected to work full time.” 
 
 
 
 
 There are examples of several players who bid goodbye to their jobs to focus on their games, as the job didn’t give them time to play.
 Footballer Sabas Saleel says that in 2012, at the age of 23, he was offered a job with KSEB with a condition – he will be given leaves only after 5 years! 
 “I joined anyway, with the hope that at least after a year, I might be given some time to play. Once I realised that’s not going to happen, I resigned. That year also cost me greatly on the game front. In the life of a player, five years is an extremely long time and you can’t expect to still be given opportunities. You will lose touch with the game, contacts, opportunities and more. Footballer M P Sakeer, who too had joined a bit before me, also had resigned for the same reason.”
 
 Ask him whether they tried to bring it to the attention of the officials and he says, “Who is there to look into this? This is considered a norm here now and people treat it as nothing unusual. I play the game as I am passionate about it, but I am worried about my future after my career is over. There are lots of players like us.”
 
 While a handful of professionals decide to make sports the priority, not everyone can do it, says Anju Bobby George. “A lot of our sportsmen are from families that probably can’t ensure a continued financial support. For them, job security is extremely important and so, they are forced to compromise and give up the game.”
 
 
 
 Meanwhile, there are also arguments that sportsmen, especially footballers, aren’t getting the support as they are making enough money as professional players. 
 
 Former Indian captain I M Vijayan says, “Many football players like Joe Paul Anchery and me too have quit our jobs and prioritised our game, in the past too. Just that it’s now it has become a talking point. I am with the department in this. Even when I went to play professional football with Mohun Bagan, I had resigned my job with Kerala Police. AGs has its own football team and Vineeth belongs to Bangalore FC. Just imagine, if a match happens between these two teams, whom will he represent? He is a professional player and it is a good time for him to pursue it too. Our government generally ensures that we get a job, after the career, like in my case. I am sure that he too can land one. Generally, you get leaves only when you go for matches of India or Kerala. As per our government circular, a professional player can’t do both his job and play professional games.”
 
 Jaisamma Moothedam, the manager of the KSEB women’s volleyball team, says, “We haven’t come across any issues and are given tremendous support. Those winning laurels are also given timely promotions. I have, however, heard that in Secretariat, certain unions are against hiring sports people and the departments sometimes do not even pay heed to the directives of the Sports Minister. At the same time, generally in the case of professional footballers, they earn crores and don’t even need the job.”
 
 According to Mercy Kuttan, footballers aren’t like general sportspersons. “They get paid well as professionals in club football. If they have to go for a tournament, they would be going on leaves. In that case, aren’t they spoiling the chance of another candidate there?”
 However, footballer Muhammad Rafi asks, “Footballers across the country play for clubs, however, it’s only in Kerala that it is made into a huge problem. In other states, they even take initiative to help players find clubs, as that is also required to help improve the game.”
 
 Rafi was given a termination letter in the first year of his job in the Directorate of Health Services in Kasaragod. “A lot of these issues are due to insider jealousy because of the popularity and money involved. If you are talking about me having to take a side between my employer and my club for a match, I can very well opt not to be part of that match. That is how it is done everywhere. More than anything, they should think that the shelf life of a sportsperson is very less and thus, a job is important for him too, just like the rest of the world.” 
 
 
