UDAIPUR: Environmentalists and activists have raised questions on the competency of experts from the National Institute of Hydrology (NIH), Roorkee, who submitted a report affirming the safety of the   wall.

 The report was submitted to   (UMC) in connection with the erection of statues at  , a project that began seven years ago, on  .
 
 In its report, the NIH team had held that there was no evident threat to the dam wall due to the construction work.
 
 A division bench of the   had taken cognizance of the matter after the safety threat was highlighted by the media. The bench, headed by Justice Govind Mathur, had called for a report from hydrology experts after assessing the gravity of the situation and issued a stay on construction last year.
 
 Activists Anil Mehta and G P Soni, a retired officer from the water resources department, have served a memorandum to the UMC demanding a reinvestigation by experts who have ample experience in dealing with dam safety issues.
 
 “Fatehsagar is the largest lake system in Udaipur. It is 400 years old and holds about 427 mcft of water now. In 2019, while developing the Vibhuti Park on the downstream of the lake, heavy quantity of earth was dumped without any technical advice or methodology,” Mehta told TOI.
 
 Mehta, who has been spearheading the campaign against the unscientific construction, said that the slopes of the dam had collapsed during the course of construction and there were visible cracks on the roadside tiles on the embankment.
 
 Following objections and protest, the Urban Improvement Trust (UIT) decided to seek the opinion of experts from the irrigation department and experts of IIT, Roorkee. “The experts visited the park site in October last year and interacted with activists. They filed their report only on the basis of visual mapping. The report does not contain any proof of scientific investigation based on which the NIH experts had convinced themselves that there is no danger to the safety of the dam,” Mehta has stated in the memorandum.
 
 There are various parameters that should have been considered like soil testing before developing the park and erecting pedestals for statues, he added.
 
 “They should have conducted appropriate hydrological, hydrogeological and structural investigations as per BIS standards and relevant dam safety manuals in order to ascertain the safety of the dam,” said G P Soni, retired superintendent engineer of the water resources department.
 
 “The experts prepared the report by visual mapping and inspection. The report submitted by the NIH has no mention of any of relevant scientific investigation and technical tests. The relevant operating procedures as per manuals and standard methods have not been followed. The expert himself is not sure of some of the specifications of the Fatehsagar dam. Hence, the safety of the should be reassessed,” alleged Mahesh Sharma, another environmentalist.
 
