MUMBAI: An engineering diploma holder and his three associates were arrested for running an inter-state employment racket and duping nearly a thousand people from across the country. The gang had set up   offices in Mumbai, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Navi Mumbai, and knocked out money from job aspirants, before shutting shop. 

 The accused—Amit Patole (39), Amardeep Chauhan (28) and Sarfaraz Mohammad Shaikh (43) and Abdul Salaam Ansari (29)—splurged most of the money on overseas holidays and invested some in gold and property. The police said that there could be more arrests. Each member of the gang was assigned a specific task, said the police. Patole was reportedly tasked with renting office spaces and handling the administration; Chauhan, an engineering graduate, was the smooth-talker as he spoke fluent English and lured clients; Ansari handled visa applications and collection of passports while Shaikh was in-charge of convincing clients who sensed something amiss. The quartet hails from north India and was living in upscale rented apartments. They are all married and would claim to be estate agents.
 
 “In 2014, around 180 people were conned by the accused in Andheri (E). The gang had placed advertisements in newspapers and claimed to offer jobs abroad. They received several applications from across the country. They collected the aspirants’ passports and conned them of Rs 1.16 crore collectively,” said DCP Navinchandra Reddy. Some of the victims were given back their passports with tourist visas stamped. “These aspirants went abroad only to be deported after the visas expired. Others were given fake visas. In 2015, the gang moved their base to Kandivli (W), where they conned another 500 job aspirants,” he added.
 
 In 2017, the gang moved base to New Delhi, where again they duped 464 job aspirants of Rs 1.50 crore collectively. The Pitampura police in New Delhi lodged a case against them. Offences were also lodged at Devariya in Uttar Pradesh, where 150 job aspirants were cheated and at Vashi in Navi Mumbai. When the Andheri police nabbed the accused, they were in the process of setting up new offices in Malad (W) and Goregaon (W) under the name ‘Orbiz International’. “Every office was set up under a new name; the Andheri (E) ones was called Delta,” said senior inspector Pandit Thorat.
 
 “Most of the victims were from small towns and they trusted the accused,” added Thorat. There was no fixed amount that they sought from the victims. They would ask for anywhere between Rs 40,000 and Rs 1 lakh, said the police, adding that payments were accepted in cheque as well as cash. The cheques were deposited in the bank account of a fifth gang member, who is still at large. “Based on a tip-off, we arrested the four accused on September 10 and seized 10 computers, cash and gold. They will be produced before a court,” said investigating officer Nagnath Bansode. 
 
 A source said that Patole and Chauhan are the masterminds of the racket. Patole had been arrested in 2003 in a separate case. 
 
 
