BHUBANESWAR: Contrary to the belief that  , a Plus II student from  , died last month due to witchcraft,   investigators suspect she could have been  . 

  Two sisters, Saudamini and Santoshini Jaipuria, were held for the death of their friend Sanjukta, who was also their neighbour in Bijapali village, under Lakhanpur block. 
 
 Crime branch officials said Saudamini and Santoshini was envious of Sanjukta on account of her beauty and good academic record. 
 
 "We came to know about the murder motive while questioning the friends and relatives of the accused sisters and the victim. Sanjukta was aware that Saudamini and Santoshini were envious of her beauty. A few days before her death, a close friend of Sanjukta told her that the two sisters had warned him not to meet her," a crime branch officer said.
 
 The probe agency said the accused were looking for an opportunity to teach Sanjukta a lesson as authorities at the local   and the villagers would praise her for her conduct and studies. When they came to know that she was not keeping well, they met her parents. Taking advantage of her parents illiteracy, the two sisters asked them to conduct a puja in order to heal her.
 
 "When the parents agreed, Saudamini and Santoshini went to Sanjukta's house on March 2. The duo claimed they have some divine power and can invoke Lord Shiva. During the practice of black magic, they first tried to disfigure her face by smashing it with a hard object. They then cut her hair and started dancing on her chest. When the victim's father opposed their brutal assault on his daughter, they asked him to keep quiet. They told the family Lord Shiva is dancing on her to cure her of her illness," special DG (crime) B K Sharma said, adding the sisters' claim of black magic or puja was an alibi. "We will highlight the points in our charge-sheet."
 
 To substantiate the issue of jealousy in court, the crime branch recorded statements of the friends of the victim and accused. Crime branch investigators said the accused kept quiet during interrogation.
 
