MUMBAI: Call it a sign of growing conservatism on campuses or a misplaced notion of security , a government-run polytechnic college in Bandra has decided on gender segregation in its canteen to curb sexual harassment. Authorities have demarcated sections for the two sexes using ropes (see pic).

 If this was not bizarre enough, the head of the   is also planning to introduce a “suitable“ uniform for girl students who currently wear the same white shirt and black trousers as boys do. Principal Swati Deshpande says she is keen the girls wear salwar kameez which, according to her, would be more in keeping with their physiological make-up.
 
 “I have heard theories on why girls suffer from PCODs (Poly Cystic Ovarian Diseases) at an early age. When they dress like men, they start thinking or behaving like them.There is a gender role reversal in their head. Due to this, the natural urge to reproduce diminishes right from a young age and therefore they suffer from problems like PCODs,“ said Deshpande.
 
 Experts dismissed her views as unscientific. Psychiatrist Anjali Chhabria said, “Girls do not suffer from polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS) because of clothes. It is caused by hormonal imbalance.“ Gynecologist Duru Shah said, “There is no evidence to prove that clothes cause PCOS!“ Deshpande is also planning to release a list of dos and don'ts for a student charter to be implemented in the next academic session. Last Saturday , when an unsuspecting batch of diploma students entered the canteen, they were met with two notices in Marathi, stuck on a pillar and indicating separate spaces for girls and boys. “We study with boys in classrooms. There is no point in dividing a common eating space. We were told that action will be taken against students who violate it. The principal is strict, so no one dared to break the rule,“ said a student.
 
 Deshpande, however, claimed that the step was taken at the behest of some girl students. “Former students enter the campus and create a ruckus in the canteen, they misbehave with girls. In fact, one such incident had to be reported to police in October. Also, the canteen is shared by 13 different offices (government offices). The girls did not have any separate seating area. Therefore, we decided to divide the canteen. There have been no complaints,“ said Deshpande.
 
 “Authorities have been asking students to tie plaits for a while. They have informally asked us to not tuck shirts in, and now they plan to change the uniform. Most of us are opposed to the idea. It would be inconvenient to wear a salwar kameez in labs,“ said a student.
 
 
 
 Gender segregation on educational campuses is an archaic idea, more so in colleges, which are meant to shape the student's personality and equip them with the skill sets needed for a career or profession. One of the attributes an individual can do with at this stage is the ability to adapt to varied environments and mixed workplaces. The principal must help students to get along with each other rather than separate them on the basis of gender.
 
