NEW DELHI:   continues to unabashedly project its pro-Hindutva image as the party continues to thrive on it as a rebuttal to the alleged politics of minority appeasement, a claim coming handy for the party in the recent electoral battles.

 His new role as UP chief minister did not deter   from performing his role as the head of the revered Gorakhnath Peeth.   took out time to perform 
  in Gorakhpur on five key days during the Navaratra festivities. He took over as the head of Gorakhnath Peeth after the demise of his Guru,  , and has been performing rituals since then.
 
 This might offend the sensitivities of his “secular” opponents, but that has obviously not been arestraining factor for Yogi.
 
 Yogi reached Gorakhnath Temple last Tuesday to discharge his duties as the “Paathadeeshwar (head priest)” of the monastery during the festive period of Navaratras and Dussehra.
 
 Like PM  , Yogi fasts during the nine-day period of Navaratras. He stayed in Gorakhpur till Saturday, the day he led a “shobha yatra“ from the monastery to the local Ramlila ground, following a decadesold tradition. The CM performed all rituals connected to the 10-day festivities, including puja and havan, in the temple.
 
 UP governor, Ram Naik, a swayamsevak since childhood, is equally committed towards 
  . Naik will travel down to Ayodhya to be present at a glittering function featuring an act of Lord Rama returning to his hometown after 14 years in exile.
 
 Although the state government has claimed that the objective is to promote tourism, the political significance of the re-enactment of Lord Rama’s return to his capital cannot be missed in view of the Sangh Parivar’s campaign to build Ram Temple at Ayodhya.
 
 Naik will welcome artists playing the roles of Lord Ram, Lakshman and Sita at Nandigram, the spot where people of Ayodhya had greeted them upon their return according to the epic Ramayana. From Nandigram, a grand procession will leave for Ayodhya where the CM will receive it. The grand ceremony of coronation would be held at Ram Katha Park where Yogi will place the crown on the head of ‘Lord Ram’.
 
 As per reports, ‘Lord Ram’ is likely to be ferried from Nandigram to Ayodhya in a special helicopter.
 
 The BJP dispensation not only in UP but even at Centre continues with its agenda of acting different from its predecessors, who were accused of ignoring Hindu rituals.
 
 UP has been BJP’s laboratory for its image-building as a strong Hindu entity as the party had not fielded a single Muslim candidate in the assembly polls with senior netas making no bones about the fact that winnability was the key factor in candidate selection and that the minority community had ignored the party in the past.
 
 
