HOWRAH: Nearly 400 land-losers blocked the gate of the   at the industrial growth centre at Howrah’s Birshibpur for over two hours on Monday. The   was inaugurated by CM   six months ago. While commissioning the plant built on a 1,000 acre plot, the CM had told local Trinamool leaders: “This plant has been set up by ITC, an industrial major. You must ensure the they face no problem and production goes on smoothly.” But the demonstration by a newly-formed  , that claims to be apolitical, took everyone by surprise. 

 Around 9am, the agitators took to the road in front of the factory. Marching to the factory, the demonstrators blocked its gate and prevented entry of those yet to get in. They did not allow the plant security men from opening the gate till 11.30am. During this time, the demonstrators shouted slogans demanding a job for a member from each land-loser family. Led by   of the committee, the agitators claimed since they gave up their plots back in 1986, when the then Left Front government acquired their plots that together comprised the 1,000 acres on which the factory now stands, the state had assured them a member of each land-losing family would be given a job when an industry came up on the land. “But now that a factory has finally started production after some 30 years, not a single member of any family that gave up land for it got a job in the factory,” said Sardar.
 
 The factory management informed police. Mediating between the demonstrators and the management, police officers pleaded with the locals to lift the agitation on the assurance a tripartite meeting would be held at the Uluberia SDO’s office on January 11. Participants at that meeting would include representatives of the agitators, the company and the SDO. With this assurance, the demonstration was lifted. 
 
 An ITC spokesperson said: “This is one of our flagship projects and part of three projects worth Rs 4,000 crore that we have committed to the state. Around three years ago, the land was handed over to us by the state. There was no commitment from the company’s side on jobs. Ours is a backward-integration model in which ITC sources raw material from farmers for the plant that manufactures a range of food products, including snacks and biscuits. We have already engaged skilled people from ITIs as well as unskilled persons who are locals. Production has not been hampered. Employees were stopped from entering for a time but the DM and SP have been very helpful and did not allow the situation to escalate.”
 
