BENGALURU:   is not likely to   anytime soon: While the government is advocating prescription of generic drugs, the   has raised questions.Doctors say the proposal to prescribe   is acceptable only if the drug assures the patient's absolute safety, with a mechanism in place to check quality. There is a lack of clarity on how the process will be implemented, they say.

 The government advocated generic drugs to stop doctors prescribing highly priced branded medicines, in order to break the nexus between doctors and pharmaceutical companies.
 
 “It's a common practice all over the world to prescribe the molecule. As long as the generic drug is of good quality, that's a great initiative. We've got to make sure there are checks and balances in place and the quality of the drug is monitored by the Drugs Controller. There are in stances where patients insist on branded drugs. Generic drugs can make healthcare affordable for everyone and reduces the cost of treatment,“ says Dr Sudarshan Ballal, director, Manipal Hospitals. He cautions that low quality drugs should not be sold as generic drugs.
 
 Dr Venkataramana NK, founder and chief neurosurgeon at Brains (neuro spine centre) says that a system has to be put in place for generic drugs to become the norm. “If this happens, it's good for doctors as we need not remember the names of many drugs. But what about patients?“ he asks. The only way out is for the government to fix a common price for all molecules. “Let the government first bring out a policy on drug pricing,“ he says.
 
 According to as the proposed rule, the decision on the drug to be given is taken by the chemist, he adds. “How are we sure that the chemist is well infor med about all drugs?
 Where is the quality control measure to remove inferior drugs from sale? It's not the job of doctors to understand why there is a price difference or why a particular drug lacks quality. The government has to bring in a mechanism to make sure the drugs are safe. If there are no variables, we are happy with the system of prescribing generic drugs,“ he points out.
 
 “If the patient does not get better with generic drugs, whom do we address? If an antibiotic is prescribed by all doctors, there are chances that patients may experience multi-drug resistance,“ he adds.
 
 Though the new thinking seems to benefit poor patients, it's tough for a practitioner to make the switch, says Dr  , consulting physician and cardiologist.
 
 He says patients must be allowed to choose the drug they want, but quality cannot be compromised.
 
 However, a source in the Drugs Controller's department says that the quality of some of the drugs produced is yet to be ascertained.
 
 “Why will it lead to confusion?“ asks drug controller Dr Bhagoji T Khanapure, who rubbishes the claim that the onus is on chemists. “Doctors have to write only the name of the molecule and the chemist must give the generic drug. This is to make drugs affordable to the public,“ he said.
 
 And who will make sure the chemist will sell only the generic drug? “A system is already in place,“ he said, without giving details. But a source in the department says the quality of some of the drugs produced by budding companies is yet to be ascertained.
 
