We live in such a busy city. Everyone is talking, but there is no space for people to go and just talk. And there is no one who is listening to them. People ‘hear’ others and instinctively give suggestions and ask questions. There needs to be unconditional ‘listening’ and that is what inspired me to hold a circle for gratefulness,” says  , a life coach, compassionate clown and the facilitator of the Gratitude Listening Circle that was held early in the week.
The circle consisted of 21 random people across the city, who were paired in groups of two, in which each got to speak and listen. “We started by introducing ourselves and talking about random acts of kindness, which served as an ice breaker. Then, one person spoke, as their partner listened. Each participant had to follow certain rules — the speaker couldn’t talk about their career, and the listener could not ask questions, interrupt or give suggestions while the other spoke. They had to just listen. Each person got to be a speaker and listener,” says Harish, who adds that he is still overwhelmed with what he saw at the event. The initial hesitation to speak with a stranger lasted for only a couple of minutes, after which he saw people open up about their deepest, darkest fears to a complete stranger.
 Researcher   was partnered with a man at the circle, both of who, she says, probably wouldn’t have spoken to each other in any other crowded place. “We barely speak the same language and are very different people, but when we started speaking, it was great. I could understand what he was going through.” She adds that although they weren’t sure of where to start the conversation, they realized that it’s OK if they didn’t have things to say. “At some point, the conversation just flowed naturally. Since we were not speaking about our career or daily routine, we spoke about things that actually matter. It’s easy to talk and listen to strangers because you have very little invested in them. It’s not about what they are saying, but how you are listening,” says Hamsini. 
 Harish says that it does take some time for people to train themselves to listen without interrupting, but it doesn’t take long to do so. And the participants took this as a learning — back home and listen unconditionally to their parents or siblings. Hamsini, on her part, is trying to take conscious steps to be a better person — a better listener — to her family and friends. “It’s easy for me to be angry and immediately tell them what they should do — I would like to change that,” she signs off.
 
