CHENNAI: The last six months has seen   let his bat do the talking irrespective of the tournaments he has featured in. If the Duleep Trophy - at the start of the season - saw Abhinav kick-off with 248 runs from 4 innings. If that wasn't enough, the southpaw starred with knocks of 91 and 82 in the semifinals and finals respectively for   as they won the maiden season of the   franchise (TNPL).

 Subsequently, Abhinav looked in ominous touch in the Ranji Trophy season, accruing 849 from 10 games at an average of 65.30. Abhinav, who completes a decade on the first-class circuit and is part of the Rest of India squad in the Irani Trophy, has seen a fair share of ups and downs as any cricketer would.
 
 What's been heartening is the way the left-hander has fought his battles and come out trumps. The 2012-13 season was a testing time for Abhinav where his form dipped and trying to alter his technique didn't pay rich dividends. It came to a point when Abhinav even thought of quitting the game. "I was trying to do something I wasn't. I was trying different techniques and everything possible but nothing seemed to work. Somewhere down the line I had stopped enjoying the game," Abhinav revealed to TOI.
 
 This period saw Abhinav double up his efforts in order to be the player he not long ago was. In 2014, Abhinav turned up for  , a team in the Leicestershire Premier League - a move that did wonders to his confidence. "It (England) was the place where I got my mojo back. When I went there I did everything by myself. It was a place where you learn that you need to do everything on your own and must figure your game out yourself," said Abhinav.
 
 If one has watched Abhinav closely in the last two years, there is a sense of calm in the way he approaches each game. "I stopped putting too much pressure on myself (in the last few years). I started playing the game for myself as that's the reason I took to this sport in the first place," pointed out Abhinav. As he pads up for the Irani Trophy game against Ranji champions Gujarata, Abhinav's performance could be watched closely by the selectors.
 
 However, the 27-year-old isn't thinking too far ahead. "I have stopped thinking about national selection. It is somewhere at the back of my head, but I don't get into a game thinking if this innings would help me get to the team. For me, it's just another game for me," he said. For the unknown, Abhinav has been part of three Irani Cup games till date, and scored a century in each of them. Considering the form he is in at the moment, it won't be a surprise if Abhinav hits one more at the   - venue of the Irani Trophy clash.
 
