THIRUVANANTHAPURAM:   continues to remain as the Achilles heel of the  . The 29-day-long strike at the   has once again exposed the vulnerability of   to crises and the weakness of offices of authorities--from that of the   VC to the education minister. It may be recalled that Vijayan had also failed to put an end to the political murders, resolve conflicts between lawyers and journalists and defuse the tension between IAS officers and the vigilance director. 

 The protest by a group of students that began on January 11 seeking parity in norms for awarding internal mark grew into one of the worst political battles the eight-month-old Pinarayi Vijayan government had to face when the CM and the CPM failed to sense the pulse of protestors. Initially, the government expected the Kerala University to find a solution to the issue. But vice-chancellor P K Radhakrishnan failed to gauge the strength of the protest despite having clear knowledge of the irregularities happening in the academy. The pressure of pro-CPM syndicate members to bail the academy management out might have also forced him to remain silent. 
 
 Tourism minister Kadakamapally Surendran and education minister C Raveendranath, who had sensed the gravity of the protest in the initial phase chose to remain silent as they hadn't got the necessary directive from the CM. The system of governance Vijayan has put in place mandates each minister to obtain clearance from the CM before taking decisions on their own. The proximity of senior CPM leader Koliakode Krishnan Nair, who is the brother of law academy director Narayanan Nair, to Vijayan, the presence of Narayanan Nair's nephew N K Jayakumar among the personal staff of the CM and the closeness of ousted principal Lekshmi Nair to the Kairali Channel had prompted CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan also to tread a cautious path. 
 
 The strike was called off because of the initiatives taken by CPI leaders Kanam Rajendran and Pannyan Raveendran. With the suicide drama and the death of an onlooker, Rajendran sensed that the protest was going out of hands. He demanded the intervention of government and simultaneously Pannyan Raveendran met Kodiyeri Balakrishnan. On Friday night, CPI ministers V S Sunilkumar and E Chandrasekharan had discussions with the CM and they convinced him about the gravity of the situation. WithVijayan giving green signal for negotiations, Sunil Kumar and Kanam Rajendran summoned protesting students for a talk on Thursday morning. 
 
