Patna: Ravan, Kumbhkarna and Meghnad will sport the traditional Rajasthani look for the Ravanvadh ceremony at Gandhi Maidan in Patna this Dussehra.

 Preparations are on to create the effigies of mythological characters on the Bharat Scouts and Guides premises near the Patna Museum. “These will be waterproof effigies since there is a possibility of rain during Durga Puja being celebrated in Hathiya nakshatra this year,” said one of the ten artisans engaged in the effigy-creation work.
 
 The artisans, including Md Shahnawaz, Md Moin, Md Yasin, Md Mehrab, Md Afzal and Md Ishtiyaque, are working under the guidance of Mohd Zafar Alam. They belong to Gaya, Nawada and Rafiganj. “Ravan will be 70ft high wearing navy blue attire, while Kumbhkarna will be 65ft high wearing pink dress. Meghnad will be 60ft tall and will wear sky blue dress,” Alam said and added the three effigies would cost around Rs 2.5 lakh.
 
 Fifty-year-old Alam, who hails from Gaya, has been making effigies for three decades. “I inherited this from my father. I grew up watching him make idols and effigies,” he said and added he also has a tent business to fall back on for the remaining part of year.
 
 The artisans have been at work since August 30 and claimed to have completed 60% work as on Wednesday.
 
 Ravanvadh is organised at Gandhi Maidan by Sri Dussehra Committee Trust. Trust president Kamal Nopani said eco-friendly crackers would be used in the effigies this year too. “We bring eco-friendly crackers from Kolkata. They emit less smoke and cause less pollution than other crackers,” he said and added high-quality colourful poppers (non-fire crackers) would also be used and helium balloons released in the air while burning the effigies.
 
 Nopani said they were also using waterproof paints to prevent the effigies from getting discoloured due to rain. “We will introduce innovations to attract a larger audience this year. We have lined up 12 eunuchs to do ‘Durga stuti’. Another addition to the celebration is Ram Leela at Naga Baba Thakurbari in Kadamkuan from September 21 to 30,” he said.
 
 
