Sunil Narine and Chris Lynn became the unlikeliest destructive force at the top of the order for  , combining for a 105-run stand for the opening wicket in just 36 deliveries and took the game away from   in Match 46 of the Indian Premier League season 10. KKR chased down a target of 159 with six wickets in hand and 4.5 overs to spare to jump to second place in the points tally. RCB slumped to their tenth defeat of the season. 

 We break down the match in five
 
 
 
 
 With the message of environmental conservation, RCB donned their green jerseys but that did not change the team’s fortunes as the big three of Chris Gayle, Virat Kohli and AB de Villiers departed cheaply once again, leaving their side tottering at 34 for 3. Gayle was the first to go, after he top-edged a length delivery from Umesh Yadav off the first ball of the match towards short cover where Gautam Gambhir duly obliged. Mandeep Singh got a six and four in the next over, but Kohli, after being dropped at mid-off by Piyush Chawla the previous delivery, was trapped in front, off a slower one from Umesh. De Villiers started on a positive note with two well-timed fours but he tried to be a bit too cheeky for his own good against Narine, shuffling across the crease for a sweep - thus exposing the stumps – and the West Indian hit the woodwork. 
 
 
 
 
 Mandeep looked in good touch and in company of Travis Head, went about rebuilding the RCB innings. The duo didn’t succumb to the pressure created by tidy spells from Chawla and Ankit Rajpoot and went on to compile a 71-run stand for the fourth wicket. But when it looked both batsmen were set to go for a late surge, rain halted the team’s momentum. After play resumed, Mandeep reached his fifty off 41 deliveries before getting caught at deep square. 
 
 
 
 
 Head then got himself in to the groove and after reaching his fifty off 41 deliveries as well, he clobbered 25 off his next six to power RCB to 158 for six. Head remained unbeaten on 75 off 47 deliveries.
 
 
 
 
 In reply, KKR surprised everyone making Narine open with Lynn. What followed next was something no one at the Chinnaswamy Stadium would have expected. Lynn started the assault with two fours and a six off the first over bowled by Aniket Choudhary. Samuel Badree bowled a tidy over giving away just six runs. Yuzvendra Chahal was introduced in to the attack and Lynn dug in to the leggie with two fours and a six in the third over. Badree was then taken to the cleaners with Narine standing and delivering for his team with three straight sixes and a four off his West Indian teammate. Narine motored along taking on Sreenath Arvind with consecutive fours and reached his fifty off just 15 deliveries – the joint fastest alongside Yusuf Pathan. He finished the over with a four. Lynn ensured the run flow continued and hit Chahal for two sixes and a four. After the powerplay overs, KKR reached 105 for no loss, thus scoring the most runs by any team in the first six, surpassing Chennai Super Kings 100/2 made in 2014. 
 
 
 
 
 Narine was removed by Choudhary for 54 off 17 deliveries and proceeded to bowl a maiden. Lynn got his fifty off just 21 deliveries but departed off the next delivery, cleaned up by Pawan Negi. Colin de Grandhomme and Gautam Gambhir then combined for a 35-run stand to push KKR closer to the target. De Grandhomme was removed by Negi for 31 and Gambhir was scalped by Chahal for 14. KKR eventually reached the targeted with six wickets in hand and 4.5 overs to spare. 
 
 
