PANAJI: With time running out, the newly-formed taluka-level committees will conduct a survey to list   bars and wine shops that are located within 500m of national and state  , even as stakeholders plan to petition the new government, that will be in place next month, to provide some relief.

 In all probability, the liquor shops which are within 500m from highways would have to close down in the new financial year. The number is not known, though the rough estimate will be around 3,000, sources said. Goa has around 11,000 excise licencees.
 
 The core committee, constituted by the chief secretary to monitor the implementation of the Supreme Court order, directing closure of liquor shops along state and national highways across the country, met on Thursday.
 
 Headed by excise commissioner Menino D’Souza, the panel being empowered by the Supreme Court, appointed taluka-wise committees which will carry out physical verification of alcohol shops along the highways.
 
 “They will conduct the exercise and identify the excise liquour licencees which are within 500m from the edge of the highway,” D’Souza told TOI.
 
 Supreme Court has asked states and union territories not to renew the licences after March 31, 2017.
 
 Sources said that the work of conducting a survey of the shops along the highways was hampered due to elections, as the staff was put on election duty.
 
 Now, the taluka-level committees headed by mamlatdars will have to expedite work and identify liquor shops by next month, an official said.
 
 Goa Liquor Traders Association has called for a meeting on Saturday at Akhil Gomantak Maratha Samaj Hall, Porvorim, at 3.30pm to discuss the issue.
 
 “The meeting has been called to discuss the issue of the ban on liquor shops along state and national highways. The meeting is strictly for members of the association - wholesalers, retailers of IMFL, CL, FL in packed bottles only,” treasurer of the association Dinesh Kenaudekar said, in a press note issued on Thursday.
 
 In mid-December 2016, Supreme Court ordered a ban on all liquor shops along national and state highways across the country, and made it clear that the licences of existing shops will not be renewed after March 31, 2017
 
 The court had also expressed unhappiness over alleged inaction by various states in delicensing liquor shops lcoated along roads, giving rise to drunken driving and leading to fatalities. It had said that revenue generation cannot be a "valid reason" for a state or union territory to grant licences for liquor shops along highways
 
 
