With barely a month to go for his wedding,   champ   is counting days when he will forever be with the love of his life — Rio Olympic medal winning wrestler  . But, even when he’s shopping for his sherwani and   suit for the function, Satyawart is conscious of the fact that it is his responsibility to ensure that his bride-to-be attains all her goals in life…

 
 
 Olympic medallist or not, in the traditional middle-class homes, most people expect a girl to be the proverbial ‘superwoman’, who should nurture the family in a marriage. Post that, if she finds the time, she may dabble in her career too. But Satyawart clarifies, “Our family is associated with wrestling and everyone knows that Sakshi has a great responsibility towards her country as an athlete. She has many more medals to win for the nation. So, my mother has already told her that she doesn’t have to worry about any of the household responsibilities at least for the next six to seven years.”
 
 
 
 Post marriage, at any stage of her life, if Sakshi finds it difficult to balance her career and personal goals, what role would he play? Without a moment’s hesitation, Satyawart replies, “I don’t foresee any likelihood of such a scenario.” But, if it ever happens, it would be my responsibility to balance all the aspects on her behalf because, as far as I’m concerned, Sakshi’s career goals are even more important than mine. She trusts and motivates me to shine in the sports world, and I feel together we can reach greater heights.”
 
 
 
 
  
  
 I feel balancing marriage, career and life is no big deal when you have support from your partner. It has been four years since I know Satyawart. He has not only supported me wholeheartedly, but has also taught me the nuances of the sport. With him by my side, I have nothing to worry about. Post marriage, things will be smoother for both of us because we will be able to train, dream and win all the battles of life together." 
 
 
 After marriage, men tend to be more possessive about their wives. Is he too? To this, Satyawart replies, “Even now, both of us hang out with our respective teammates during various tourneys. So, why should that change, post marriage? And why should there be any restrictions for me or Sakshi?” 
 
 
 
 “Sakshi’s dreams are mine and I want her to revel and thrive in this relationship; there must not be any conditions imposed that stifle her dreams,” says the Haryana wrestler.
 
 
  
  
 
