AGARTALA: Security has been beefed up across   of   following indefinite road and rail blockades from Monday morning called by tribal-based Indigenous   (IPFT) to press for their demand of a separate Twipraland. 

 IPFT has announced a road bloackade at Chadrasadhupara on National Highway while the railway track will be blockaded at Brighudaspara locality at Baramura foothills until a government response.
 
 Police superintendent of West Tripura, Abhijit Saptarshi, said sufficient deployment of CRPF and   State Rifles (TSR) forces, besides civil police, has been made in all the mixed-populated localities and sensitive locations.
 
 "We shall ensure there will no loss of public property and life during the agitation. All necessary security arrangement has been made to foil any subversive attempt. However, traffic has been diverted from the national highway via Khowai and Kamalpur to keep normal life unaffected," Saptarshi said.
 
 Meanwhile, the Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR) authority has sent senior officials to review the situation. Railway service has been cancelled from Agartala to Dharmanagar, Silchar, Guwahati, Kolkata and New Delhi for Monday, and if required the cancellation period may be extended.
 
 According to IPFT President NC Debbarma, demonstrators have already started reaching the locations from different parts of the state and a few thousand IPFT supporters are expected to join the agitation by Monday. Saying the protest will be peaceful, he warned the government will be responsible if police put pressure on them to stop the agitation.
 
 "The movement will be concentrated in a particular location and the demonstration will be peaceful. No emergency service will be affected due to this but we shall disrupt normal vehicular movement in the location. Tripura has two more alternative roads to reach Agartala, so we don't feel it will be a problem. Actually, we want to draw the attention of the government," said Debbarma.
 
 The ruling CPM have alleged that BJP and the Prime Minister's office have orchestrated the protest to create political turmoil in the state ahead of next year's assembly elections. Responding to this allegation, Debbarma said the CPM have always been against communal harmony and are typically trying to give the protests a communal colour.
 
 Apart from Congress and CPM, tribal parties like INPT and a faction of IPFT led by former MLA Rajeswar Debbarma have opposed the call for indefinite road and rail blockades. 
 
 
