MANGALURU: After the producers failed to get theatres in the district for their film, ‘Amaravathi’, based on the plight and travails of manhole workers in Bengaluru, a WhatsApp group   organised a special screening of the movie on Thursday at the Diana Theatre here. The director, producer and cast of the movie were present at the screening, along with some of Udupi’s manhole workers. The movie was screened at 4.30 and 7.30pm on Thursday.

 A member of the WhatsApp group,   regretted that socially-relevant films seldom saw the light of day. 
 
 “We felt that Amaravathi carried a very important message, and thought it must reach more people. We had also organised a screening of the film, ‘Naanu Avanalla Avalu’, which was appreciated by the audience. Though Amaravathi is about the conditions of manhole workers in Bengaluru, it is a film which will resonate with members of the profession across the country,” Kamath said.
 
 During the interactive session that followed the screening, the film’s director   touched upon the hardships faced by the manhole workers in Bengaluru. 
 
 “I have been associated with their cause since 2006. I conducted workshops, and directed street plays to draw attention to their plight. But there was not much response. In 2013, they decided to boycott work till their demands were met. They went on strike for three days. But, waste accumulated for even such a short period can trigger a viral infection in the city. This indicates how important they are to the well-being of our society. People are least bothered about their problems, which is why I decided to make this movie,” said Giriraj, who has helmed four other films prior to Amaravathi.
 
 He added that the film’s producer   was impressed with the story. “I narrated the story to him in 2015, and he expressed interest to produce a film that was realistic, and had a message in it. It was the first film he produced,” said Giriraj. 
 
 The audience appreciated the movie’s realistic tone. A manhole worker who watched the film, too was all praise for it. “The cast and crew have successfully showcased the problems we face at work. We work very hard, but are not given adequate facilities. Neither is our job secure, nor are our lives. We do not receive Provident Fund, and other allowances,” he said.
 
