KOLKATA: Alankrita Shrivastava’s ‘Lipstick Under My Burkha’ starring Konkona Sen Sharma, Ratna Pathak Shah, Aahana Kumra and Plabita Borthakur is eligible for an official Golden Globes qualifying screening. In the history of the prestigious award, only three Indian movies had earlier bagged nominations to the prestigious awards. But, this is the only one to have been refused certification prompting many including   and Goutam Ghose to insist that   (CBFC) ought to rethink its decision.

 While ‘Gandhi’ had won the   for the Best Foreign Language category in 1982, Mira Nair’s ‘Salaam Bombay’ and ‘Monsoon Wedding’ bagged nominations in 1988 and 2001 respectively. At the recent screening of the film at the Indian Film Festival of Los Angeles, director of IFFLA Christina Marouda had said, “We are honoured that the   has chosen our opening night film, ‘Lipstick Under My Burkha’, to be an official Golden Globes qualifying screening. The director of the film will now have the opportunity to properly plan a Golden Globes campaign should she choose to submit the film for nomination.”
 
 However, the film with so much of promise can’t be viewed in Indian theatres. That’s because on January 25, 2017, the CBFC had refused certification to it saying: “The story is lady oriented, their fantasy above life. There are contanious sexual scenes, abusive words, audio pornography and a bit sensitive touch to one particular section of society (sic)”.
 
 Set in the crowded by-lanes of small town India, ‘Lipstick Under My Burkha’ chronicles the secret lives of four women in search of freedom. Though stifled and trapped in their worlds, these four women claim their desires through small acts of courage and stealthy rebellion.
 
 Reacting to CBFC’s refusal, actor-director Aparna Sen said, “I think, it is ridiculous. Why can’t they give it an ‘A’ and be done with it?” She insisted that CBFC ought to rethink its decision.
 
 Goutam Ghose, who was part of the Shyam Benegal committee that was formed to suggest revisions in the Cinematograph Act, agreed. “Since it has got such an international position, CBFC ought to reconsider its stand. Refusing certification to such a film is extremely unfortunate. The ministry is thinking of a revision in the Cinematograph Act and we have already submitted our recommendations. Our suggestions have done away with cuts and insists only on gradations. Once that’s accepted, it will be easier for film-makers,” he said.
 
 According to actor Dhritiman Chaterji, “We seem fated to suffer this arbitrariness and must unite to fight it at every opportunity.”
 
 According to the film’s editor Charu Shree Roy, the CBFC and the ministry ought to understand that the idea of censorship is obsolete in today’s world. “Those refusing certification always find a reason to do so if the film doesn’t match with their world view. Those certifying movies watch them with their own biases. People across the world are watching our film. It can also be shown on multiple media platforms. It was also screened in Islamic countries including the Cairo International Film Festival,” she said.
 
 Premendra Mazumder, who is the former general secretary of the   and was part of the jury at the Cairo International Film Festival, said the film was very “well-received” in Cairo. “If Egypt can watch the film, why should India be deprived?” Mazumder asked.
 
 Director Satish Babusenan, who along with brother Santosh Babusenan had won a court battle against censorship for their film titled 'The Painted House', said Indian cinema has had to fight hard for its freedom. "We had fought. I think, the director of ' ' must do the same. The idea would be to refuse to bend or bow in any manner," Babusenan said.
  
 Said Rahul Vaidya, CBFC’s regional officer for Mumbai, “The film has gone to Film Certification Appellate Tribunal. Beyond that, I don’t know anything.”
 
