NEW DELHI: Nursery admissions bring   the paradox in Delhi’s primary education: too many kids vying for limited seats in the few “good” primary   and too few interested in the 1,662 primary schools that the municipal corporations run. Last year alone, over 35,000 kids dropped out of the   schools to take the figure in the past five years to a staggering 1.38 lakh.

 Clearly, even for the parents that bring their children to these school, mostly domestic helps and menial workers, quality still matters — and that is what they are not reassured of in the institutions run by the civic bodies.
 
 The first response of the corporations is to argue that the dropout rate is due to the labour families migrating elsewhere for jobs. This argument, however, only damns the corporations because under the Right to Education Act, it is the responsibility of local bodies to map their respective areas and ensure the kids get free and compulsory education.
 
 Civic bodies do carry out a survey annually to identify kids “left out of the system”, but this job is left to the already overburdened teachers, who, in any case, do not have the expertise for the complex assignment.
 
 The corporations also handily use the government-mandated quota in private school for the economically weaker sections, called EWS, to explain the reluctance of parents to enrol their children in their schools. “Parents prefer to get the children admitted to private school under the 25% EWS quota so they can study up to Class XII,” said one corporation official.
 
 Since the last municipal polls in 2012, SDMC has shut down seven schools. EDMC has closed down 22, while the north corporation, since 2015, has terminated a huge 48 schools. The civic bodies pleaded that the low number of students warranted the closure of these schools.
 
 Senior officials of the education department of South Delhi Municipal Corporation did admit to the fall in quality of education and enrolment. “However, we have done a lot during in the past two years, especially in terms of infrastructure,” said one official. “NGOs have been roped in to improve quality. They have set up 25 schools as resource centres and these will adopt 10 other schools each.” Yet in the same period, over 27,000 kids dropped out of SDMC schools.
 
 Infrastructure improvement has been slow and painful. Mukesh Yadav, SDMC spokesperson, claimed that 89% of its schools now had pucca structures. But 65 schools in south Delhi and 140 in the east don’t even have water connections. No wonder, Mukesh Goyal, leader of the Opposition in the north corporation, protested, “In 2015-16 and 2016-17, Rs 20.35 crore was allocated for the purchase of desks, but no money was spent for the purpose in both the years.”
 
 In the north corporation, Mamata Nagpal, chairman of the education committee, said staff shortage was a prime problem. At one point, half the schools there did not have principals. Despite some effort, over 100 still don’t have heads. Absolving the civic body of any responsibility, she argued, “We are ready to fill these vacancies too, but Delhi government and Delhi Subordinate Services Selection Board need to bring in more manpower.” 
 
 Posts of clerical staff, guards and sweepers too are vacant. And, added a north corporation official, “We have a shortage of administrative officers too. Entire north Delhi currently has just around three school inspectors. Directors, whose job it is to formulate policy, keep getting transferred every two months due to political interference.”
 
 An EDMC official also alleged that political recommendations keep piling up in the corporation schools through the year, while in government schools, transfers are effected only in the two months when institutional activity is at a minimum. Such transfers have created teacher numbers disproportionate to students in many schools.
 
 Money, of course, is a big reason why corners are cut. For instance, in the financially stressed east corporation, allocation for education has dropped by Rs 20 crore since 2012. And as usual, the municipal bodies blame the state government for their dismal performance. “We are supposed to get 100% grant-in-aid for schools, but the government, including the earlier Congress one, has reduced the figure to just 58%,” an official claimed.
 
