LONDON: Rafael Nadal hit his head on a door frame while executing a prematch drill a little before he walked onto Court No.1 on Monday . Then, a tad slow and playing from way behind the baseline, he allowed his big-serving opponent   the upper hand in the fourth-round clash.

 Nadal dismissed the first as `just a small accident' but rued the second, shaking his head on what turned out to be an evening of hits and misses . The 31-year-old, with 15 major titles in his kitty, two of which have come on these lawns, came back in the third and fourth sets before caving into the pressure of serving second in a crackling decider that had the crowd at the edge of their seats.
 
 Nadal, a five-time finalist here, who has only made the fourth-round twice since 2011, couldn't find a way past the tenacity of the Luxembourger, who held nerve and serve. Muller, 34, thundered down 30 aces, won fewer points in the total count than his celebrated opponent, but sealed the crucial ones (191 to Nadal's 198) to power into the quarterfinals here for the first time.
 
 He won 6-3, 6-4, 3-6, 4-6, 15-13 in 4 hours and 48 minutes shutting the door on his opponent in fading light. “I tried to hang in there. Rafa stepped it up in the third and the fourth sets. Then I told myself, `I'm doing the best I can. I'm play ing well. Just hang in there and you're going to get your chances',“ Muller said adding, “After I was struggling a bit on my service games in the third and fourth sets, I started playing well on my serve again (in the fifth) and won my games more comfortably . I felt like at the end I was there all the time on his serves.“
 
 Nadal, who was his usual animated self, fighting all the way , said, “When you play against a player like him you don't have a lot of rhythm.Also you cannot make mistakes yourself. That's what I did twice, in the first and second sets.“
 
 “I had some important breakpoints, these kind of breakpoints are almost match points,“ Nadal said of the fifth set. “I make few mis takes especially one where I went to the net. Easy to say now, but I'm better than him from the baseline, so I probably should not have gone to the net that early. Then another one that I wanted to play aggressive with my forehand and I miss it long. He had chances too in the fifth set, more chances than me.So maybe he deserve it a little more than me.“
 
 The Mallorcan muscleman, a crowd favourite wherever he plays, refused to be comforted by the fact that after two seasons in relative wilderness he had worked himself back into competitive mode. “I won matches. I play better than other years, true,“ he said.
 
 
