NAGPUR: In the first part of its survey findings published on Sunday, TOI had reported that most people do not take civic   seriously. This is not surprising given the fact most people have a negative image of corporators. TOI had conducted the survey among voters in the age group of 21 to 50 years, which revealed that over 80% people feel that   are not helpful. This impression seems to have been gained on hearsay as most respondents have never interacted with their corporator.

 The survey has also revealed that around 60% citizens feel that   will help city transport and cycle rickshaws should be replaced with e-rickshaws. People also want special toilets for women and handicapped persons.
 
 The survey revealed that 58% respondents did not know the identity of their corporator and only 22% had interacted with them. Some 82%respondents said that corporators were not helpful. Only 16% said that they helped citizens while 2% said that they were not sure.
 
 The state government’s move to introduce four-member ward system is still not known to most citizens. Only 42% voters said that they were aware of it. Surprisingly, 24% respondents said that increasing the number of corporators per ward was good, while 14% felt that it was a wrong move. Most respondents — 62% — said that they did not have an opinion in this regard.
 
 More than half of respondents — 52% — said that reserving seats on the basis of caste was right. About 34% said that it was a wrong practice, 14% said that they were not sure. 
 
 Most women corporators drew a negative impression from the respondents and were considered to be proxies of their male relatives. However, 44% of the survey respondents said that they were not against them, 38% who said that they were. Some 18% said that they were not sure. 
 
 The survey holds a lesson for the political parties. Some 64% of the respondents said that the candidate was more important than the party. Only 4% said that they were not sure.
 
 Commenting on these findings, political scientist Mohan Kashikar blamed corporators for their negative impression. “Most corporators may be good at heart but they do not have any idea about their powers and lack vision. They should move around their wards and interact with the citizens to know about their problems. Very few of them do this. Consequently, the corporators are a distant thing for most citizens,” he said.
 
 The survey has found out that most people view the Metro Rail favourably. Some 58% respondents said that it would improve the city transport while only 8% said that it wouldn’t. Some 38% said that they were not sure. Nagpurians do not view cycle-rickshaws favourably and 60% feel that they be replaced with e-rickshaws against 28% who feel otherwise.
 
 Commenting on the survey, Shirish Apte, Mahametro’s deputy general manager (public relations), said that 58% favourable response to the project even before it was operational was a good figure and showed that the agency’s public relations campaign was a success. “We will hold more   in various institutions and the remaining ones too will also start thinking positively about the project. When it becomes functional, none would doubt its requirement,” he added.
 
 
