CHENNAI: An outspoken professor of Tirunelveli-based Manonmaniam   (MSU), who had taken on the management several times during his 20-year career, has been transferred to a constituent college in the middle of an academic year. He has also been removed from the post of director of the Centre for International and Diaspora Studies a day before his transfer.

 The professor, S Samuel Assirraj, has written to the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) in February terming the transfer illegal as the decision has not been approved by the syndicate. In a communication on March 23, the   had directed the   (UGC) to take suitable action on the complaint.
 
 A senior university administrative official said Samuel was taking on the University and filing RTI petitions and cases. “He conducted an international conference in Kanyakumari in December for which he got a Rs 10 lakh grant from the state government. He did not inform the university on the finances,” the official said. The vice-chancellor has the powers to transfer a professor to a constituent college, the official said.
 
 The university last month sent him two memos for airing his views on plagiarism in research studies. Samuel had been quoted by TOI on the lack of implementation of plagiarism software by Tamil Nadu’s universities. In response, registrar John Britto demanded explanations on the ‘adverse remarks.’ Samuel had also questioned certain appointments in the university in an association meeting, sources said. 
 
 In the complaint to NHRC, Samuel said the transfer in the middle of the academic year has left students of two papers — sociological theories II (core paper) and sociology of Tamil society — taught by him and three research scholars he guided, in the lurch. In addition, he has not been given charge of any particular department or provided facilities commensurate to the post of a professor, Samuel said in the complaint.
 
 As the college is not a Grade 1 college, there is no cadre of professor; it offers only under-graduate courses, while Samuel was appointed to the university for teaching post-graduate courses and driving research, which makes his transfer a violation of his appointment order, he said in the complaint.
 
 
