NAGPUR: Even before the counting day, Nagpur   Bar Association’s ( ) newly elected president   had a host of plans in mind to take the body to newer heights. Though he never talked about them, he had made up his mind long back while working with the old team, without holding any capacity. On Friday, when he was formally announced the winner in a nail-biting finish, he spoke his heart out on variety of issues, plaguing the bar, his vision and development plans in a tête-à-tête with TOI. Being a seasoned campaigner, he wish to take consensus of everyone in his team and outside before moving ahead.

 Q. Tell us about your immediate plans.
 
 A. It would take at least a month, as we would be taking over reins only after installation ceremony. The dates would be finalized after consultation with the old body. As announced earlier, my first priority would be to work for constructing more chambers for the lawyers, particularly the juniors. Since the land was already allotted by the government adjacent to high court’s premises, we would expedite remaining work. Prior to that, I would be using my experience of an interior designer to create extra cabins in the existing space. Weekly meetings of HCBA’s   would be conducted, for materializing all our big plans.
 
 Q. Any dream project in mind?
 
 A. We wish to provide a full-fledged chambers for lawyers in the court premises itself where they could complete entire day’s work, which they usually conduct sitting in their respective offices in evening. The motive is to enable to them to spend quality time with their families, which they usually don’t get on normal days. The idea is to provide everything in the chamber itself that is required in the office like computers, stenographers, good canteen and a full-fledged library, so that they could finish off their work by 7.30pm. We would like to restart regular training programmes for junior lawyers for improving their drafting, public speaking another skills. Efforts would be made to provide monetary assistance to juniors, who’re from humble background. 
 
 Q. Old body had raised issue of shortage of judges.
 
 A. They’ve very rightly raised the issue and we would continue it in future. The shortage affects lawyers, litigants and entire judiciary while helping in increasing the pendency of cases.
 
 Q. What about facilities for litigants?
 
 A. We’ve many plans for them as well, first and foremost being setting up an enquiry counter at the entrance, so that they could be guided properly on which court to attend or where their lawyer usually sits. We would be improving sitting arrangement, toilets and drinking water facilities. 
 
 Q. Explain about future plans.
 
 A. We’ve certain plans in mind to start premium parking where the members would get a permanent slot. Plans are afoot to accommodate more vehicles in the available space. Even the existing project of setting up of air-conditioners would be expedited. My six years of experience gained while working as NGO Jan Manch‘s president would come handy for me. You will see the change, right from first day. By end of tenure in next three years, we would like to take HCBA to a national level.
 
