BENGALURU: Veteran actor  , who passed away on Friday, has had a four-decade-long association with Sandalwood. He, incidentally, was to inaugurate the Bahuroopi Theatre Festival at Rangayana in Mysuru next Friday. 
 
 The news of Puri’s death came as a shock for filmmaker and theatreperson T S Nagabharana, who was preparing to receive his best friend in Bengaluru. “I was to escort him to Mysuru. While I was preparing for his arrival, I got to know about his death,” said Nagabharana.
 
 Puri’s association with Karnataka goes back to the 1970s, when the state attracted national talent for its various experiments in theatre and new-wave cinema. He had many friends in Kannada theatre and films. 
 
 “Though he acted in very few Kannada movies, he was deeply connected to many individuals, especially those who were at the helm of the new-wave that covered both films and theatre,” said K Puttaswamy, a film historian. 
 
 Kannada theatre doyenne B Jayashree was Puri’s batchmate at the National School of Drama (NSD) between 1971 and 1973. Together with another titan  , they formed a troika.
 
 “People know Puri as a versatile actor. For me, he was a best friend. Losing a friend is like losing solace,” said Jayashree.
 
 Jayashree remembered how Puri and Shah helped her when she landed in New Delhi and couldn’t understand a word of Hindi. 
 
 Puri had said many a time that he was indebted to littérateur Girish Karnad who was instrumental in getting him enrolled at Pune’s Film and Television Institute of India (FTII). Karnad headed the institute at that time. After NSD, it was important for Puri to join FTII to make a career in acting. However, he wasn’t selected and Karnad, as the head, had to intervene to get him a seat.
 
 Karnad was also instrumental in getting Puri a role in Chor Chor Chup Jaa, directed by B V Karanth, in 1975. Karnad and Puri’s friendship had its share of differences, but their common friends say it was only an ideological fight.
 
 “I have dedicated an entire chapter to Om Puri and his Pune days in my autobiography Aadaadata Aayushya,” said Karnad.
 
 Puri had his first brush with Kannada cinema when he played a small role in  , jointly directed by Karnad and Karanth in 1977. He enacted a bigger role in the movie’s Hindi version, Godhuli.
 
 More than two decades later, he appeared in a big role as a police officer in AK47, a full-scale commercial film, and shared screen space with Shivarajkumar. He also acted in Dhruva featuring Darshan as hero. Puri was to feature in another Shivarjkumar-starrer   that released last year, but couldn’t make it.
 
 Kannada actor Sundar Raj fondly remembers the days of   that was shot near Tumakuru. “The outdoor shoot took place in Mahimapura. Four tents were pitched for our stay. Puri and I were tentmates,” said Raj. Puri kept asking for details of Kannada plays like Hayavadana and Jokumaraswamy.
 
 Nagabharana, who worked as assistant director in both Tabbaliyu Neenade Magane and Chor Chor Chup Jaa, said the way Puri used his body language was amazing and his baritone was unique. He remembered how Puri made it a point to learn Kannada to say his lines.
 
 Nagabharana directed Puri in Bin Bulaye Mehmaan (1981), a Hindi remake of Kannada movie Anveshane, but the film was incomplete. 
 
 Nagabharana said Puri was passionate about theatre and would sit through the rehearsals of BeNaKa ( Bengaluru Nagara Kalavidaru) whenever he was in Bengaluru. Nagabharana is halfway through a light and sound show for Mysuru Palace for which Puri gave the voiceover. “Some portions are left. Now, I’ll have to make do with the available voiceover of Puri,” he said.
 
 
