BENGALURU: One of the many creations of Sir M Visvesvaraya that continues to shape Karnataka, Century Club, in the heart of Cubbon Park, was founded as a centre for learning and leisure for government officers.

 While the club has been a witness to the changing face of Bengaluru over the past century, very little is known about this heritage centre of Bengaluru.
 
 History has it that the then Mysuru king,   IV, granted seven-and-a-half acres of land to the foundingpresident Visvesvaraya, his diwan then, to develop the place social networking hub for babus.
 
 After Visvesvaraya, three Mysuru diwans -M Kantharaj Urs, Albio Banerji, Pradhana Siromani -were presidents of the club, while diwan of Travancore, M A   was the president in 1952.
 
 Although the club has now shrunk to nearly five acres, it still boasts of two lush tennis courts and a badminton court, a swimming pool and table tennis court for sporting activities.The club's library named after after Seshdri Iyer, Visvesvaraya's predecessor as diwan, has a rich collection of English and Kannada books.
 
 Today, the club has around 6,400 members. Among the veteran members are lexicographer G Venkatasubbaiah, Bharat Ratna CNR Rao and Prof U R Rao. Among prominent members of the club are sportspersons Prakash Padukone,   and  , actors Ambareesh and Bharathi Vishnuvardhan, among others.The royal family members, including the new Maharaja Yaduveer Krishnadatta Chamaraja Wadiyar, are patron members of the club.
 
 The facility added another feather to its cap when it voted a woman as its president for the first time in 2016. Shobha  , a member for 28 years and current president, will be presiding over the events in the centenary celebrations.
 
 “It's one of the first clubs in the city to have allowed women to be independent members and also vote. We have four women in the executive committee to take up many works like creating awareness on women's rights, conducting lectures in schools and the club on issues and screening for cancer,“ she said.
 
