THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: It is that time of the year when parents are busy securing admissions for their kids at various private schools and coaching centres. For government schools, summer vacation is the time to campaign for the public education protection mission which intends to upgrade such schools.

 Though there is a general feeling that politicians never act in tune with their speeches, excise minister   seems to be keen on setting an example. A staunch campaigner to protect government schools and public education, he chose a government school for the education of his grandchildren. On Wednesday, his two grandkids were admitted to the  .
 
 “The admission form of Al Mitra (6) who was admitted to first standard had the official residential address of the excise minister and it was a moment of pride,” said headmistress Celine M.
 
 “Nearly 20 years have passed since a student from a minister’s family was enrolled here. Anna Kalana (12) was given admission in the UP section. They waited patiently with others until all the procedures were completed. They even enrolled for the school bus service. It is through such small acts that the public will realize that government schools are equally efficient,” she added.
 
 The minister’s son Rejulal TP said there was nothing extraordinary in admitting kids in a government school. “I work as a teacher in a higher secondary school in Kozhikode and I have always felt that the quality of education in government schools was good. I feel that joining a government school is a normal affair in north Kerala, but somehow posh schools and aided institutes become a matter of pride and status for the parents in southern cities,” he said
 
 “We have added many additional facilities to welcome the kids when they return after vacations. Of the 23 classrooms, six of them will be turned into smart classes with interactive boards, laptops and internet facilities. A wall painting “Kaala chuvadukal’’ portraying events from the origin of universe to the evolution of man was finished at the school campus wall. The painting – which was a part of ‘Haritha Keralam’ project – was completed by students of   along with parents of our students,” said PTA president Anooj SS.
 
