JAIPUR: It merely took a basic colour printer and a scanning machine for a gang of counterfeiters in the city to print fake copies of ‘high security’ Indian currency notes of Rs 4 lakh in just three months, the gang pushed fake notes of Rs 2,000 Rs 500 and Rs 100 into circulation through its agents who targeted gullible road side vendors, illiterate shop keepers and night time tea vendors.

 The matter came to light on Wednesday after the Bassi Police arrested five members of the gang - Chotelal Mali (37),   (30), Salim (45),   (23) and   (28) and seized counterfeit notes of Rs 1.78 lakh from them.
 
 Chote Lal, the alleged kingpin of the counterfeit racket roped in several agents and offered them to buy fake notes of Rs 25,000 with original currency notes of Rs 7,000. These agents targeted road side vendors, illiterate shops keepers and shops which are set-up at fairs in rural areas. 
 
 “Many people are still not very well versed with new currency notes of Rs 2,000 or Rs 500, hence they were susceptible to their frauds . The gang particularly targeted vendors who work in night time,” said assistant commissioner of police (ACP) , Bassi Circle, Tejswani Gautam. She added these notes could be detected as there are no watermarks on them and ink is also delible.
 
 The gang came on the police radar for the first time when two policemen- Hari Om and   found Chote Lal’s movement suspicious and informed senior police official also about suspected case of major Fake Indian Currency Note (FICN).
 
 “When we raided Chote Lal’s house and found printer and a scanning machine with which they printed out fake notes, currently we have come across two ways in which they pushed notes into circulation. Firstly by roping in agents and secondly by buying items from shop keepers,” deputy commissioner of police (East)   said.
 
 ACP Gautam said that many people who were duped by the gang did come to complaint as they were afraid that they might also face the action for having counterfeit currency notes in their possession. 
 
 
