HYDERABAD: Land mafia with the help of a few local political leaders have made attempts to remove a 250-year-old granite stone table ( ) dating back to the late   period to encroach upon the prime land adjacent to Paigah tombs.The mega granite table weighting about a tonne with exquisitely carved detachable stone legs has been a major hurdle for anti-social elements to encroach upon the ancient monument ­   (mausoleum).The mausoleum is in a dilapidated condition and the large stone slab table lies right in front of the structure. The stone table is also in a state of neglect with one of its legs moved aside apparently during attempts to remove it.Children of the nobles died in infancy were buried in the complex.

 The stone table has been a mystery as its real purpose is not known. Local people describe it as a table meant for keeping the bodies before the burial. However, city historian Dr Mohammad Safiullah says it is not clear why the huge stone table was kept at the entrance of the mausoleum.
 
 A heritage activist told TOI that a few anti-social elements entered the premises on Tuesday and cleared the bushes. They visited the mausoleum again on Wed nesday . He said his enquiries revealed that plans are afoot to shift the stone table and relocate it to  . He feared that once the stone table is removed there will be encroachments on the mausoleum complex.
 
 Dr Safiullah said the stone table is at least 250-years-old.“It probably belongs to late Qutub Shahi period or early Asaf Jahi period. It has been subjected to vandalism. Already a portion of the legs is bu ried in soil for want of care and careless dumping of debris. The stone is granite and it must have been mined from   district. It is a refined version of the stone table that exists in Mecca Masjid,“ he said.
 
 He demanded that the state government should fence the area for protection from vandals and land grabbers.Any attempts to remove it by untrained people will result in damage to the stone slab. There is also an interes ting version by locals about repeated attempts to vandalize the stone table. Many believe that there is a treasure trove hidden in the earth underneath the table. Rumours of a man seeing the treasure in `vision' also abound. But heritage activists dismiss the claims as attempts to shift the table. Incidentally , the stone table and the Maqbara is a private property belonging to the Nizam trust.
 
