Coimbatore: The textile city is fast turning out to be a favoured location for multi-national companies (MNCs) looking for space to set up their back-office operations. E-commerce major   has taken up 65,000 sq. ft. space at the ‘India Land Tech Park’ at   near the city.

 Amazon Development Centre India, which launched its customer service facility in the city on Monday, is planning to take up another 50,000 sq. ft. at the same location in the next 7-8 months, sources said. The e-commerce behemoth would eventually employ about 600 persons at the centre.
 
 India Land, which has around 8 lakh sq. ft. of IT (information technology) space at the park, has rented out about 2 lakh sq. ft. in the last six months alone. With this, the park, which was available for occupation from 2010-11, has completely run out of space.
 
 Incidentally, the Tidel Park, promoted by the state-run ELCOT (Electronics Corporation of Tamil Nadu) in the city, is also totally occupied now. Tidel Park, which was launched in 2010, has IT space of about 9 lakh sq. ft.
 
 A host of factors including the increase in rentals in Chennai in the last one year, the need for an alternative location to Chennai in the event of natural calamities and the good availability of skilled manpower in Coimbatore has led to the spurt in demand for space at IT (information technology) SEZs (special economic zones).
 
 “The demand for SEZ space is very good now. Coimbatore has really picked up in recent months,” said S Saalai Kumaran, chief executive officer, India Land Group. Rentals for IT (information technology) space has gone up from Rs 30-35 per sq. ft. per month in Chennai to Rs 40-45 per sq. ft. now. In contrast, space is available at Rs 25-28 per sq. ft. in Coimbatore.
 
 Amazon is not the only one to move into the city. Others including Hella Automotive has taken up 30,000 sq. ft. for its engineering back office at the same location last month. The facility would employ about 150 persons. US-based healthcare BPO (business process outsourcing) firm Logix also took up 50,000 sq. ft. of space in February and would employ about 500 persons. Verticurl, the subsidiary of advertising giant WPP, signed up for 30,000 sq. ft. of space in February, which would employ 300 persons, at ‘India Land’. Apart from the Tidel Park and ‘India Land’, CHIL (Coimbatore Hi-Tech Infrastructure), promoted by the city-based KGISL, is a major provider of IT space in the city. 
 
 Incidentally, KGISL was a co-promoter of ‘India Land Tech Park’ when it was launched. India Land bought out the 26% stake held by KGISL in the venture last year.
 
  
  
