JAIPUR: Doctors   Sans Frontières ( ) on Friday said the reinstatement by   of the Mexico City Policy that prohibits nongovernmental organizations receiving US funding from performing or providing counseling or information on abortion will undermine access to safe abortion services and endanger the lives of women.
 
 Unsafe abortion is one of five main causes of maternal mortality worldwide, together with hemorrhage, eclampsia, sepsis and obstructed labour, the statement issued to the press said, adding that unsafe abortions account for a shocking 13% of maternal deaths worldwide, according to WHO. The rates are even higher in Latin America and in contexts such as refugee camps and conflict areas.
  
 MSF warned that if safe abortion options were not available, women and girls would put their lives at risk by seeking unsafe means to terminate unwanted pregnancy. “According to WHO of the estimated 46 million abortions requested per year, roughly 20 million are considered unsafe. As medical providers, Doctors Without Borders/Médecins Sans Frontières (MSF) teams around the world treat women and girls with abortion-related complications every day,” the press release said.
  
 It is MSF’s policy to provide contraceptive and safe abortion care. The decision on whether to terminate a pregnancy on request is taken very carefully, with the safety of patients and staff a primary concern, MSF said.
  
 Jason Cone, MSF-USA executive director, said, “Governments should not play politics with the lives of women and girls. No matter what the risk or barrier, women will continue to seek ways to end pregnancies and they will continue to needlessly die if safe abortion care is not accessible. The Trump Administration needs to face these facts and end policies that endanger the lives of women and girls.”
  
 The press release noted that research over the past decade has shown that policies that ban medical providers from educating women about abortion and their family planning options—including birth control and condoms—actually lead to more unwanted pregnancies, more unsafe abortions and death, and higher rates of sexually transmitted diseases, such as HIV.
  
 The press release said that women should have the information and tools to protect their health and wellbeing. “Women are at greater risk of becoming HIV-positive than men and pregnant women require specific and targeted services so that their own health can be protected and the risk of sexual transmission or transmission to their child can be reduced.”
  
 “MSF does not receive any US government funding and is not directly affected by the reinstatement of the Mexico City Policy,” said Cone. “However, as providers of medical care in places where women and children will be directly affected and hurt by this policy, it is important to state the enormous damage this policy will have on collective efforts to reduce maternal mortality and suffering worldwide.” 
 
