UDAIPUR: In the age of Eigenharp, Samchillian and   who would care for the humble tabla, dholaks and damrus, especially when there are ‘DJ Wale Babus’ to play grooving numbers at every occasion! Still, makers of musical instruments in Udaipur have managed to survive against odds as over 100 people of a clan are engaged in the traditional business. 

 Ahar, popularly known as Ayad, is one of the largest rural bronze age sites of   of South Rajasthan. It dates back to 2000 BC. The place is also known for traditional drum, table, damru and  . 
 
 People from as far as Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Maharashtra come here to purchase these instruments which are carved out of animal skin. At a time when market is overflowing with synthetic and plastic made instruments, there are still a few who prefer the traditional home-made equipments for their soothing and softness of sound.
 
 As one enters Ayad and walks through the main road, one can see a quite many musical instrument shops showcasing the traditional equipments that once found a place in every Indian household and were used at merry-making occasions. In fact, the whole colony occupied by these musical instrument makers is known as Dabgar Muhalla, a community that uses animal skin to make musical instruments.
 
 “This is not our ancestral profession. Our forefathers were Kshatrityas who fought wars for the rulers. In one such war, when the army fell short of weapons, the king asked our forefathers to make ‘dhaal’ (shield) from animal skin. They did it so perfectly that the king asked them to take up the task permanently,” said Shyamlal Devda, an artisan here.
 
 “We have seen three generations earning a livelihood with this profession. Our father taught us to make them and he was taught by his father and so on. But now our kids do not want to learn this art, neither do we want them to take up this profession as there aren’t many clients for dholaks and damrus these days,” said Bhagwati, another shopkeeper. 
 
 These shops sell a variety of instruments ranging from dhol, majeera, dholak, tabla, nagada and harmonium to drums and even guitars.
 
 “We have instruments in the Rs 6,000 to Rs 13,000 range. Navratri, Holi and weddings are the only occasions when we get good number of orders, especially from tribal and rural parts. These are the only people who have kept the age-old traditional instruments alive. Nowadays, households do not keep instruments that had been a fashion during the 70’s,” reminisces Shankarlal, a 75-year-old resident of the area.
 
 Artisans too have adapted to the changing times as nowadays no one prefers to toil for hours to process the animal skin. “We procure the skin from Gujarat while the wooden parts come from Moradabad in Uttar Pradesh and accessories from Delhi. We assemble them here. Only on special orders, we do the cumbersome processing at home,” Shyamlal said. 
 
 It takes 3-5 hours to make an instrument depending on size. “Compared to the labour we have to put in, we do not get good returns and its hard to survive. There is no support or encouragement from the government too,” Hemraj, another artisan says. 
 
 
