HYDERABAD: The mycobacterium tuberculosis, which causes the deadly tuberculosis (TB), has now found a new `reservoir' in wild elephants in south India. In a shocking discovery, a team of Indian and US veterinary researchers have found even elephants in the wild are infected by TB.

 The wild pachyderms have ironically got the TB infection from human beings. Elephants in captivity are known to spread tuberculosis to humans, particularly those in regular interaction with them. The fact that the TB bacterium has found its way into wild elephants in India is a matter of concern as elephants are known to spread the disease among themselves and to humans.
 
 It is a known fact that elephants in zoos, temples and private farms carry the TB bacterium. But this is the first time that TB has been diagnosed in the wild groups in India. Experts fear that the bacterium from wild elephants may spread to other elephants and humans as instances of pachyderms entering human habitations in search of food and water have increased of late. It is not known what course the bacterium in wild elephants will take in the future as more research is needed to understand the `reverse zoonosis'.
 
 Elephants make sojourn in Chit toor and Kadapa districts of Rayalaseema and Srikakulam and Vizianagaram in north coastal regions of Andhra Pradesh. Instances of elephants eating away horticultural crops in bordering areas are common. Elephants are also closely associated with Telangana at least culturally and no major traditional procession is complete without a caparisoned pachyderm leading it. So the research finding gains significance.
 
 The result of the research study appears in the March 2017 issue of the journal,  , published by the   (CDC) of the USA. As part of the study, researchers from Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and the USA tested three dead wild Asian elephants in southern India and confirmed TB infection in all of them. “Our results indicate that tuberculosis may be spilling over from humans, and emerging in wild elephants,“ the researchers said.
 
 Referring to the study, veterinary expert Dr Niyaz Ahmed, professor of the department of biotechnology and bioinformatics, University of Hyderabad, said tuberculosis is rare in wild elephants although it is fairly common in captive animals. “It is ad visable to avoid contact with infected animals as they blow air out of trunk with enormous force and thus generate aerosols capable of causing immediate human infection due to inhalation exposure,“ he said.
 
 Lead researcher Dr Arun Zachariah of   , told TOI that TB bacteria was evolved in humans. It is basically a human pathogen, and thus its presence in wild elephants is a spill over. “It can be a possibility of reverse zoonosis in captive stock. Of course, reverse zoonosis has a significant factor for survival of wild animals,“ he said.
 
