AURANGABAD: More than 100   in the   Uttarakhand from Aurangabad and according to authorities they are likely to have a tough time returning to their   Out of the 46 tourists from Latur and Osmanabad, nine of them were reported missing till Saturday evening.

 The authorities from the disaster management unit said that most of the stranded tourists were safe and were expected to undertake further journey in the next 24-hours, if the roads are restored. But they have not been able to contact atleast nine tourists from Osmanabad and Latur, which has created panic among their families. 
 
 Proprietor of city-based Heramb Travels Mangesh Kapote, who is stuck in Uttarakhand along with 32 pilgrims, said, “The schedule of Char Dham Yatra has been disrupted due to landslide. It has also hampered our return plans.”
 
 “The natural calamity occurred when we were on the last-leg of our tour. Many tourists from Maharashtra were scheduled to board return flights in a day or two, which is not feasible now. The government should extend helping hand considering the conditions we are stuck in,” he said.
 
 Kapote said the air-line companies should facilitate free journeys to stranded pilgrims against their cancelled travels with necessary intervention from the government. 
 
 Nandkumar Gadekar, a 55-year-old accountant from the city, said, “He would never forget the horrific moment of a mountain falling like a pack of cards.” 
 
 Gadekar, who is one of the 134 tourists from the city, said, “Huge debris of mountain continued to fall from dizzying heights for more than an hour.”
 
 “Our buses stopped abruptly seeing some loose rocks sliding down the road from nearby mountain. Sensing trouble, the driver started to reverse the vehicle. The actual landslide occurred after we moved back a few meters. While everyone thought it would end, huge boulders along with mud kept falling for atleast an hour,” he told TOI over the phone on Saturday. 
 
 “Local district administration and government machinery swung into action immediately by relocating all those who were stranded in the nearby religious places and private hotels,” he said, adding that they were also provided with free meals. 
 
 Ajay Chaudhari, Aurangabad district disaster management officer, said, “All stranded local passengers were safe and state-level disaster management officials were in constant touch with their counterparts from Uttarakhand for further journey of affected pilgrims.” 
 
 “The exact location of landslide was nearly 18km from Badrinath. The natural calamity has partially affected Rishikesh-Badrinath National Highway. The intermittent heavy rains in the area has been slowing down the effort towards restoring road-connectivity and safely moving out passengers,” he said.
 
 Osmanabad district disaster management officer Vrushali Telore said, “Nearly 30 tourists were missing from the district initially, but we were able to contact them except for four people. Acting on the inputs from concerned families, we have been tracing the whereabouts of missing persons. Since weather conditions are not that adverse, we believe all of them will be safe.” 
 
 Saqueb Osmani, disaster management officer, Latur district, said, “Phone networks are poor in the landslide affected area. A total of 16 tourists form our district are stuck in Uttarakhand, of which five are yet to be contacted,” he added.
 
 Meanwhile, the latest natural calamity in Uttarakhand has revived horrific memories of the large-scale natural calamity that was witnessed in June 2013 following a cloudburst in which over 5,000 people, including some of them from Maharashtra, were presumed dead.
 
