AMRITSAR: Residents of   in Pakistan, birthplace of Guru Nanak Dev, launched a protest campaign on Saturday against the proposal to shift   University to Sheikhupura, about 50km away.

 Various Sikh organizations, including the Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (PSGPC) and   of Pakistan, leaders of a political party, along with students organizations, staged a demonstration at Nankana Sahib. They also took out a march demanding establishment of the university at the earlier proposed site. The agitators raised slogans like ‘saada haq eithay rakh’ and ‘Saare shahr ka eik hi naara, university haq hamaraa.’
 
 Reacting to the locals’ protests against shifting of the university, Evacuee Trust Property Board ( ) chairman Siddiq-ul-Farooq told TOI over phone from Lahore that, “They have missed the bus. Where were they when we were about to begin the construction work? Now, we will not shift the university back to Nankana Sahib.” Former Pakistan Prime Minister Syed Yousaf Raza Gilani had issued instructions in November 2008 for the acquisition of the land for the university in Nankana Sahib and was to lay the foundation stone of the university during Baisakhi celebrations in April 2010 but the same couldn’t materialize for some unknown reasons.
 
 He further said that the Pakistan government had given a building spread across 14 acres near the proposed site of Baba Nanak University in Sheikhupura, which would be used as a temporary campus from where the classes for BSc would begin from September. “We are also likely to lay the foundation stone for the university spread on 100 acres in Sheikhupura in September,” he added.
 
 The venue of the university was shifted following protests and adamant behaviour of a section of local residents and lawyers of Nankana Sahib. Earlier, on November 27, 2016, a group of lawyers under the banner of Nankana Sahib Bar Association, along with some local residents, had put up banners in the religious town and demanded scrapping of the university while refusing to vacate their properties despite the fact that the ETPB had offered them alternate places and a job to a member of a displaced family. 
 
 However, in a goodwill gesture, Farooq said the ETPB could consider setting up a campus of Faislabad Agriculture University in the name of Baba Nanak at Nankana Sahib.
 
 
