A day after fisherman K   was allegedly shot dead by Sri Lankan navy, fisher men families staged a mass protest at Thangachimadam in   demanding the arrest of   personnel who shot him. The fishermen families said that they will not withdraw their protest unless the Union foreign minister came to meet with them.

 Bridjo is survived by his parents Kemlas and Perpetua and the couple has four sons and one daughter. The family makes their living from fishing. They refused to accept Bridjo's body demanding justice. Some 2,000 people gathered in front of Thangachimadam church and sat on protest. They demanded that Sri Lankan navy men who fired at Bridjo should be arrested. They asked for assurance from the Union government that action will be taken. They will not withdraw the protest till then, the fishermen said.
 
 Later in the evening, state fisheries minister D Jayakumar and IT minister M Manikandan visited Thangachimadam and consoled the grieving family members. Jayakumar addressed the fishermen saying that the government will seek a permanent solution to their problem. After the minister left, the fishermen continued their protest and fishermen leaders said that the protest will continue through the night.Expressing solidarity, fishermen at Nagapattinam, Pudukottai, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur and Karaikal have decided to strike work. Their leaders have planned to meet on March 9 to decide the future course of the agitation. Hundreds of fishermen from Nagapattinam taluk convened a meeting to discuss the issue on Tuesday. Some 2,500 mechanized boats have been stationed at the fishing harbour in Nagapattinam following the flash strike.
 
 As many as 20 youths from Nagapattinam staged a protest standing in the sea by holding black flags and placards and raising slogans against Sri Lankan navy and urging the state and Union governments to save in fishermen. They demanded compensation to the families of the victims who had lost their breadwinner. Fishermen from Jagathapattinam, Kottaipatti nam and Ammapettai in   district have decided to suspend their fishing activities indefinitely, condemning the alleged act of the Sri Lankan navy. Nearly 750 mechanized boats and more than 500 country boats will stop going to the sea from Wednesday onwards to express their anguish over the incident.They also demanded the release of all Indian fishermen arrested by Sri Lankan Navy and the return of seized boats.
 
