CHENNAI: It’s that time of the year when students develop the sweats. But counsellors are at hand to calm those with bad cases of pre-exam jitters.

  will start its pre-examination psychological   on Thursday; the state board’s   helpline (104), which went online mid-January, has already been flooded by calls from nervous students. The helpline, which offers counselling in three phases — pre-exam, exam and post-exam, has received more than 2,000 calls from students hoping to overcome exam-related stress.
 
 “Most calls so far have been from Class 12 students,” the helpline’s B Prabhudoss said. “The volume of calls usually increases as the exams get closer.”
 
 Inability to properly manage time and low confidence levels are common complaints but the helpline also advises students on physiological fixes to their problems. “These include tips on diet, sleep patterns and how to maintain good health in general,” Prabhudoss said.
 
 Counsellors at the 104 helpline advise students to not compare their problems with those that others face as each student has individual exam-related issues. Building a support system around a student is important and counsellors advise students to share their concerns with their parents, teachers or peer groups, they said. Another aspect they stress on is the importance of de-stressing in between study sessions to maintain a balance, they said.
 
 CBSE will conduct its pre-examination counselling from February 9 to April 29. It will hold counselling sessions for both students and parents via telephone and the internet. Students can dial the toll-free number 1800 11 8004 from any part of the country for the CBSE helpline.
 
 Operators will answer general queries and connect students to principals or counsellors in case of exam-related anxiety or stress. The helpline will be operational from 8am to 10pm from February 9 to April 29.
 
 Students can also receive advice at counselling.cecbse@gmail.com.
 
 As many as 90 principals, trained counsellors, psychologists and special educators will participate in the in the counselling process this year.
 
 
