VISAKHAPATNAM: Having hosted two consecutive CII Partnership Summits, the state government is now zeroing in on the   close to   for construction of an international convention centre in the port city. The APIIC floated a request for proposal ( ) on February 22 inviting developers to submit their bids for construction of the international convention centre.

 According to   ( ) sources, APIIC has around 14 acres under its possession close to Harbour Park overlooking the beach. Out of the 14 acres, around 10 acres is likely to be earmarked for development of the international convention centre, the sources said.
 
 As per initial estimates being considered by Incap, which will be handling the project, the international convention centre will have a capacity to host around 3,000-5,000 people at one go and may also have a five-star hotel as part of the project. 
 
 Confirming the development, an Incap official said, “The details of the project are being finalised and interested firms can download the RFP document from the Incap website from February 25. The proposal is being finalised and the estimated cost of the project will be put out soon.”
 
 Another APIIC official said, “Vizag certainly has the potential to become a major attraction for holding international conventions as it is one of the most beautiful cities in the country with sea on the one side and hills on the other.” 
 
 Chief minister N   during his visit to the port city in October last year had mooted the idea of having a permanent convention centre to host mega events in the state.
 
 Being in the heart of the city, the state government is hoping that developers would come forward to express their interest in construction of the international convention centre. Incidentally, the state government had earlier planned a mega convention centre at   on an area of around 53 acres. However, the project failed to take off as no bidders evinced interest in the project, which was estimated to cost around Rs 380 crore and would have the capacity to accommodate nearly 5,000 people and would also include a star hotel, commercial complex among other facilities.
 
