HYDERABAD:   and   have lagged behind their southern counterparts in the recently released public affairs index 2017 (PAI-2017) by the public affairs centre, India, for the second time.
While Telangana stood at 13, Andhra Pradesh secured ninth rank among the big states. Kerala and   secured first and second ranks for the second year in a row. Karnataka slipped from third position in 2016 to fourth in 2017.
 
 Maharashtra stood fifth (fourth in 2016) in governance indicators. While Andhra Pradesh bagged eighth rank last year, Telangana entered the rankings for the first time this year. Gujarat gained two positions going up from fifth rank in 2016 to third position in 2017.
 
 Among 12 small states (population less than two crore), Himachal Pradesh bagged first rank, followed by Goa and Mizoram. Delhi dipped from third position in 2016 to ninth position in 2017. Meghalaya (12th), Arunachal Pradesh (11th) and Jammu Kashmir (10th) are at the bottom of the index.
 
 Public Affairs Centre has also given rankings based on a wide range of themes such as essential infrastructure, support to human development, social protection, women and children, crime, law and order, delivery of justice, environment, transparency and accountability , fiscal management and economic freedom.
 
 There were 26 focus subjects and 82 indicators. Data was gathered from around 200 relevant sources published across India in English.
 
 For each source, all digitally available publications between 2015 and 2016 have been collected irrespective of the topic. Both AP and Te langana fared poorly not only in overall ranking, but also in various themes compared to other southern states.
 
 While Telangana performed poorly in execution of various state and central schemes, it secured top slot in fiscal management.
 
 Andhra Pradesh was a poor performer and secured last rank, but it secured second rank in infrastructure.
 
 Tamil Nadu secured first rank in maintaining law and order, delivery of justice and environment categories and secured last rank in transparency and accountability in the administration. In human development, Kerala, Maharashtra, and Punjab were on top. Kerala, Assam and Madhya Pradesh were top three in implementation of social protection policies.
 
