CHENNAI: S Rajagopal*, principal of a government-aided arts and science college in a town in Erode district, was in for a surprise, when a government order landed on his table on Friday, sanctioning 16 posts of assistant professors that have been lying vacant in the institution for six years. The institution was managing with part-time faculty members to maintain the quality of education despite repeated pleas to the government. This is part of a clean-up exercise and to clear the backlog.

 “It was an unexpected development. The regional director of collegiate education, Coimbatore, has also called for a meeting on May 11, to take stock of the vacancies and we hope to get sanction for another 16 posts,“ the academician said.
 
 P M Palanisamy, principal of   in  , some 125km away, has been hoping to get a similar order to fill up 37 posts in his institution shortly. The posts have not been filled up in the government-aided arts and science college with approval from the higher education department yet to come. He is anxious as three more faculty members will be retiring from service by May this year.
 
 After years of dilly dallying, the state government has finally woken up to the longpending demand of the aided arts and science colleges to approve the posts of 1,800 assistant professors. “While the process has begun recently for 600 posts, pending from 2008 to 2011, more approvals based on the vacancy list will be granted shortly. On Monday , seven posts were cleared for a college down south,“ said a source. The approvals were mired in controversy in the previous regime over corruption charges against politicians demanding bribes for sanctions.
 
 “Yes, we are getting reports of approvals being given now after several years of delay,“ said   Association, vice-president, N Pasupathy .Going by the  's annual recruitment planner, some 3,020 assistant professors' posts would be filled up before October in government polytechnic and arts and science colleges. “At least 192 assistant professors will be issued orders this week for engineering colleges,“ a source said.
 
 *(name changed on request)
 
