PATNA/NEW DELHI:   chief minister  , who skipped a luncheon meeting convened by   president   Gandhi on Friday, will be present in the capital on Saturday for a lunch hosted by PM Narendra Modi for his Mauritian counterpart Pravind Jugnauth. 

 The decision comes against the backdrop of Kumar’s growing uneasiness over disclosures about the undeclared assets of his coalition partner Lalu Prasad’s family members, and immediately set off speculation. With political circles swiftly interpreting the CM’s scheduling priorities as a possible portent of realignment of ties, Kumar said, “Mauritius has a historical bond with Bihar as around 52% of its population has origins in our state. 
 
 As the Mauritius PM has come to India, the PM invited me for a luncheon hosted in his honour. The PM has also accepted my request for a personal meeting on silt management in the Ganga and prevention of floods in Bihar. I will like to utilise the opportunity for other positive discussions as well.” 
 
 Clarifying on missing Sonia’s meeting, Kumar said, “It is a complete misrepresentation that I did not meet Sonia Gandhi due to political or personal reasons. She had invited all opposition parties and   represented JD(U). I did not attend the meeting because I had already discussed the issue with her and conveyed my party’s stand.”
 
 JD(U) spokespersons too argued that no political motive should be read into the CM’s travel plans. “Nitish Kumar needs to attend the lunch being hosted for the visiting PM of Mauritius in view of the historical bond between Bihar and Mauritius,” party spokesperson Pawan Varma said. 
 
 He also emphasised that JD(U) was represented at the opposition meeting by its senior leader Sharad Yadav. Kumar’s ties with Lalu Prasad have appeared to be under strain in the wake of a spate of disclosures about how the latter’s kin went on a spree to acquire properties in Delhi and Bihar. While the RJD boss has attributed the actions of the income tax department and Enforcement Directorate to “vendetta” of the Modi government, JD(U) has refrained from endorsing the charge. Kumar’s absence cast a shadow over the opposition meet. However, JD(U) sources defended Kumar. “Being the CM, he has crucial responsibilities to discharge and there was no reason for him to skip those for performing roles which can be performed by others on his behalf,” a Nitish loyalist said.
 
