NEW DELHI: The Patna municipal corporation’s annual   collection is just enough to pay one-third of its salary bill. Municipal bodies of Kanpur, Ranchi, Jaipur, Chandigarh and Ludhiana also do not earn enough to pay salaries to their staff.

 These are some of the findings of a survey of 21 big municipal corporations by advocacy group Janaagraha Centre for Citizenship and Democracy. These   not only depend on financial support from states for developmental work but also use the earmarked funds for salaries. According to JCCD’s fourth survey on “India’s City Systems”, the salary of Patna municipal corporation’s employees is 320% more than its earnings. In the other five cities, mentioned in this report, the salary expense is in the range of 128-199% of the total income of the municipalities.
 
 The number of such municipalities is much more considering the fact there are several reports of how salary disbursement to employees in different cities usually get delayed. The findings come at atime when the Centre is pushing for building smart cities involving municipal bodies. On governance parameters, Thiruvananthapuram has scored the maximum.
 
 The survey shows how smaller cities have weak finances and can’t make future   for   and services. For example, the annual expenditure of Greater Mumbai municipal body is about Rs 33,000 crore for 12.4 million people. Almost similar amount is together spent annually by the next 10 populous cities, including Delhi, Ahmedabad, Pune, Lucknow, Bangalore and Chennai, which have a total population of 54.4 million.
 
 The report also exposes how none of the 21 cities it surveyed have effective policies to stop violations of planning norms, which is evident from the mushrooming of slums, unauthorised colonies and illegal constructions.
 
 All cities scored “zero” on this parameter as compared to 9.1 to 10 for London and New York. A survey conducted by Bangalore municipal corporation in 2014 found only three out of 400 buildings conforming to rules.
 
 The average tenure of municipal commissioners in the past five years across these cities was 1.2 to 1.6 years. The tenure of mayors was 3.1 to 4.5 years. The urban ministry has asked states to have municipal cadre and recruit people who are professionally qualified. It also asked for allowing lateral entry of experts for specific posts and for a specified contract period.
 
