THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The city corporation has deposited Rs 23 crore with   (KWA) in a final bid to salvage two   that were to be implemented under JNNURM. The state-empowered committee, during the final meeting held as part of winding up KSUDP, directed the corporation to explore the possibility of sharing the funds required for the completion of two schemes.

 The suggestion was mooted while reminding corporation about the responsibility and ownership of the projects. It also took into consideration the fact that 107 MLD sewerage treatment plant (STP) was operating with only 40% of sewage reaching the plant due to shortage of network and house connections.
 
 At this juncture, the corporation has deposited Rs 23 crore. A note has also been sent to state government seeking additional funds for the completion of the scheme. Mayor VK Prasanth said that corporation was keen on laying sewerage network across the city and if the government failed to provide funds, corporation would take up the financial commitment.
 
 The projects which are likely to be revamped, include rehabilitation of the existing sewerage system in C block and extension of sewerage system in uncovered areas of C block (Pettah, Chackai and Kadakampally) and extension of sewerage system to southern part of coastal area in G1 block (Valiyathura, Vallakadavu, Shanghumugham, Vettukad and Kannamthura).
 
 Even after a decade, the expenditure incurred for the first package was Rs 2.07 crore against the contract value of Rs 13.73 crore and for the second package, only Rs 7.3 crore was spent against the contract value of Rs 55.18 crore. The empowered committee had decided to terminate the contract in 2016 due to the contractor’s poor performance.
 
 The project, which was to be completed in 2014, has finished only 25% of the work. According to the note written by the executive engineer of sewerage division, all major components of the project were delayed due to the contractor’s negligence in arranging labour, materials and equipment in tune with the work schedule.
 
 The corporation has already allocated Rs 50 crore under AMRUT to revamp the proposal on sewerage network between Kazhakkoottam and Muttathara by laying lines in various areas like Edathara, Karimanal, Akkulam and Kazhakkoottam. The initial plan is to lay a main line to   and then open up options for linking this line to private households or corporation.
 
 The main line needs to be laid at a depth of 6m, covering a distance of 10km. While the earlier project cost envisaged during JNNURM was Rs 331 crore, the new estimate is expected to be 3-4 times the cost finalized during JNNURM.
 
