KOLKATA: While scholars, teachers and linguists were divided in their opinion on making Bengali compulsory in school for all students, neurologists felt adding an extra language will not be a significant burden on kids. It could be difficult to grasp a new language at an advanced age, but children’s brains were adept at assimilating information and could store them for posterity, they argued.

  professor emeritus Sukanta Chaudhuri felt “all students who live in Bengal should learn some Bengali at some point”. “I support the endeavour. It is unfortunate that Bengalis who have lived in Bengal for generations now view the language with neglect and at times even contempt. To not give their children an opportunity to learn Bengali is wrong,” said Chaudhuri.
 
 However, linguist   felt it will be a pressure at the primary level. “Expecting children to learn three languages simultaneously is a bit too much. Ironically, this move comes at a time when the government is also encouraging English education,” said Sarkar. He had headed a committee that had recommended introduction of English from Class II in 1998. He added that it doesn’t take 10 years to learn a language. “So, students speaking other languages could be exempted after a period.”
 
 Nilanjana Gupta, English teacher at Jadavpur University, pointed out that Bengali was spoken differently in some parts of the state. “Ours is a multi-lingual society, so there’s apparently no harm in teaching multiple languages in school. But still, it isn’t a good idea since even Bengali is spoken differently in various parts of our state. In Purulia, for instance, people speak a different dialect and for them learning proper Bengali is a slightly difficult exercise. Burdening children with three languages is not a good idea. This way, most won’t be able to master any,” she felt.
 
 Class I was the right time to start learning an extra language, felt neurologist  . Learning a language was a natural process for the brain and six to 10-year-olds could grasp it easily. “It won’t be an additional stress for the brain. Any learning is done by a network of cerebral nerves that process information and keep it for retrieval. This happens inside the inner temporal or medial temporal lobe. It is the hippocampus which is the seat of memory. When the lobe is young, it is sharper in understanding and interpreting all the data that it receives, processesing and storing it. For older people, it is difficult,” explained Kumar.
 
 You hardly need a clinical justification to realize that multiple languages could be learnt in school, felt linguist and mythology expert  . “Our generation has grown up learning three languages in school. It has only served to enrich our knowledge. It would be a pity if children speaking other languages spend a lifetime in Bengal without knowing Bengali. You need to know the language to appreciate the local culture, ethos and, of course, the rich literature. All states have the rule,” said Bhaduri.
 
 Former Calcutta University Bengali department head   argued that Hindi-speaking students or those speaking other languages should learn Bengali since “our children studied the vernacular languages of states where they studied”. “It isn’t very difficult to learn an additional language and I don’t think it will be a burden on students. But the problem lies elsewhere. Our schools don’t have the infrastructure to accommodate the teaching of an additional language. It will be futile to force a language down students’ throats unless we have trained teachers”.
 
 Chaudhuri agreed. “In states like Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra and Punjab, the regional language is compulsory. Perhaps, the government needs to give more thought on when to start teaching the language and for how long. Introducing three languages right from class I is a bit too much for a child. It would, perhaps, be wise to introduce the languages in a staggered manner,” he said.
 
 
