NAGPUR: The third round of centralized admission process (CAP) for first year polytechnic courses began on Saturday but there still remained high vacancies at institutes across Nagpur region.

 Of the 20,116 sanctioned intake, 13,636 seats under CAP were still vacant as per round II provisional vacancy chart uploaded on directorate of technical education’s (DTE) website.
 
 In Nagpur district, the sanctioned intake of institutes under CAP is 8,771 while 6,002 seats are still lying vacant.
 
 Several branches are yet to get a single admission while not even 50% seats were taken in many others.
 
 As per schedule, the DTE would now be displaying category wise seats available under CAP round III.
 
 Officials said the availability is likely to be more or less same as it was after round II.
 
 From July 30 to August 1, applicants would be able to modify their preferences from slide, float and freeze. In slide, a student is allowed to switch if s/he is allotted a seat in different branch but same institute. In float, branch and institutes choice can be modified if the students wants while the freeze option is exercised if a student has got the branch and institute of his/her choice.
 
 Talking about the continued decline in  , some principals blamed private coaching classes for ‘brainwashing’ parents and students. “One can become a perfect engineer only after following the set pattern of study — polytechnic and engineering. But, students are lured by coaching centres at high school level. By the time they reach SSC, coaching centres show them the dream of IITs. Students must reconsider their decision, if they want to be successful engineers,” one of the principals said.
 
 This year, only 8,500 applicants had registered for 22,065   in Nagpur region. Of this, just 9,775 students had done seat confirmation against nearly the 20,116 sanctioned intake under CAP.
 
 The abysmal record in polytechnic had resulted in six colleges in the region getting closed and the intake capacity coming down from 24,010 to 22,065. There are 26 polytechnic colleges in city having 8,895 seats. The Nagpur region comprises six districts of Nagpur, Wardha, Bhandara, Gondia, Chandrapur and Gadchiroli.
 
 
