HYDERABAD: At a time when the state government is pumping its resources and energies to turn the temple town of   into  's own Tirupati, the local police have a larger problem at hand -  .

 While Yadagirigutta, for years, has been notorious for flesh trade it is only now that the police have started to crack the whip.
 
 In the most recent case on March 2, officials from the   (CID), rescued as many as 40 girls who were forced into flesh trade, from various parts of Yadagirigutta. According to the Soumya Mishra, inspector general, CID, three of the rescued victims tested positive for HIV . Another minor girl who was rescued in the past from the temple town was taken back into the business, she added.
 
 Last week, the   too raided 20 lodges in Yadagirigutta and the neighbouring   area. During the raids, police caught 40 people -18 from Yadagirigutta and 22 from Bhongir -and sent them to the respective police stations.
 
 Police say that the cheap lodges in the town ­ visited by lakhs of devotees every month ­ have become a hub for such illegal activities.“These `couples' book a room in the afternoon and leave by evening. When we questioned them during the raid, a majority of them said that they were colleagues. In some instances, they claimed to be distant relatives,“ said a member of the SOT.
 
 On October 23, 2016, the Rachakonda police conducted searches on 27 lodges in Yadagirigutta and caught as many as 18 people on charges of indulging in obscene activities. Its records show that since June 2016, 57 cases of prostitution have been filed and as many as 166 pimps or organisers from the area arrested for the offence.
 
 “Apart from being a pilgrimage centre, the area is renowned for prostitution. Some of the victims we rescued said that they were doing it as part of the Devdasi tradition,“ K Narsing Rao, inspector, Special Operations Team, Rachakonda said.
 
 This practice, officials affirm is rampant in several parts of the temple town.“Since their childhood, the victims are told that they must join this business, eventually pimps pick them up and use it as a money making model,“ he added.
 
 In a shocking revelation, during the recent raid the police also rescued two girls, who were mentally unstable. To curb this menace the police have begun raiding hotels, lodges and guest houses which are aplenty in the area.“We want to get rid of all such ills in the area, so now we have begun sealing lodges and filing cases against the owners for allowing such practices. The agents who we rounded up told us, that it was easy getting accommodation in the town,“ said Mahesh M Bhagwat, Rachakonda police commissioner, while adding that they have seized seven lodges for allowing such practices, over the last three months. Police also said that the culprits in these case were booked under the Prevention of Immoral Trafficking Act (PITA) and the Preventive Detention Act.
 
