HYDERABAD: Academic stress, long study hours and sedentary lifestyles are taking a toll on the health of   in the city. One in seven students in the city suffers from hypertension, a new study has revealed.

 Doctors in the paediatrics department of   ( ), Hyderabad, caution that pre-hypertension in children is a “precursor of hypertension“ at later life. Early detection of students at risk of high blood pressure can help prevent severe health problems as they grow up.
 
 The GMC team conducted research on school students between five and 15 years of age in the city and published their finding in the latest issue of the  . The researchers divided the children into different groups based on their socio-economic status and fa mily history of high blood pressure. GMC doctors noticed that kids hailing from rich families were more prone to high BP .The team comprised researchers Kamatham Madhusudan, Betham Rajendra and  .
 
 Parameters such as body mass index (BMI) of children play a major role in the onset of hypertension in adulthood.“There was a linear increase of mean blood pressure with in creasing age, height and weight,“ the study said.
 
 “The mean systolic and diastolic blood pressures of overweight children were higher than those with lower BMI. Children belonging to high socio-economic status and those with family history of hypertension showed higher mean values of systolic and diastolic blood pressure,“ the study said, adding that 13.08% of children suffered from hypertension. Of them, 6.44% had pre-hypertension and 6.64% suffered from hypertension.
 
 The research study gains significance as child specialists generally do not measure blood pressure of children. This is primarily because their blood pressure should be measured with special instruments called nomograms. The lack of monitoring BP levels is among the reasons why India does not have a proper data on the prevalence of hypertension in children. “Early identification of hypertension cases specifically those falling in the pre-hypertension category are largely missed. Almost 75% of hypertension cases and 90% of pre-hypertension cases are undiagnosed,“ the study said, warning that hypertension in adulthood is associated with cardiovascular morbidity .
 
 The GMC doctors noticed that the mean systolic and diastolic blood pressure in children from affluent families was 101.6 and 64.9 mm of Hg respectively .This is against systolic BP of 94.3 mm of Hg and diastolic BP of 59.7 mm of Hg in students belongs to economically poor families. Optimum blood pressure levels vary depending on age.
 
 The researchers found that both boys and girls equally suffer from hypertension. “In boys higher prevalence was seen in age groups of 6 years and 10 years, whereas in girls, higher prevalence was seen in the age groups of 5, 6 and 10 years,“ the study said. The study focussed only on healthy children. Those suffering from acute illness, anaemia, heart, kidney or other problems were not included.
 
