VISAKHAPATNAM: Exams over, schools are closed and the summer holidays are here. Despite demonetisation and mounting tax issues, travel enthusiasts are busy packing for  , both domestic and international.

 Tour operators in the city said northern hill stations are a favourite pick when it comes to domestic travel, enticed by lucrative offers, while Europe seems to be the most sought-after destination among foreign locales. Apart from this, Asian hotpots such as Singapore, Malaysia and Thailand, which have direct connectivity and are relatively cheaper, are also on the list.
 
 “We are offering various packages, all-inclusive within Rs 1 lakh, which consists of return airfare, three-star stay, sight-seeing and two meals. Travellers would see France, Switzerland, Germany, Italy, Austria in seven-eight days. If the travellers are willing to spend more, say Rs 2 lakh, they can enjoy Europe including United Kingdom for more number of days. At present, 80 per cent of the enquiries that we are getting are Europe-related,” said B Aruna Shri, sales executive of SOTC in Vizag. 
 
 Abhay Pratap, director (operations) of Travel Home, a Vizag-Vijayawada- based tour operator, also concurred that basic Europe packages are in demand this season. “It’s mostly the family group who are interested, because children’s exams are over. We recently did booking for around 20-25 people. France and Switzerland, besides Italy including the Vatican are places that are generating the maximum interest among tourists. Asian nations such as Vietnam and Cambodia are seeing some interest among Vizagites. Once the direct flight to Colombo is introduced, we expect more tourists to and from Sri Lanka,” he said.
 
 “Another place in Europe that has potential to draw tourists is Bishkek, capital of Kyrgyztan near Russia. It can be compared to Switzerland as far as the scenic beauty is concerned. Shortly, we will come up with packages to promote this beautiful place,” added Abhay.
 
 It’s interesting to note that despite demonetisation and government service tax, which has gone up from 4.5 per cent to 9 per cent since January this year in the tourism sector, people are interested in travelling to other continents. Domestic traffic has also been increasing, say tour operators.
 
 As for domestic destinations, hill stations of Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh and Darjeeling in West Bengal are favourite picks this summer. S Padmaja from Frontline Travels Pvt Ltd said Goa and Kerala are also drawing Vizagites and bookings are being made for these places besides the Himalayan states.
 
