CHANDIGARH: With several schools in the city hiking fees arbitrarily, parents have decided to stood their ground this year. While parents of two schools have already taken the respective schools to court, others too are protesting in their own ways. According to most of these parent groups, they wanted to take a stand on the issue but feared being targeted afterwards. TOI talked to some of the parents to know their views on the matter.

 The movement began in January when some schools shared their fee structures and it was known that most of them had doubled their quarterly fees. The school authorities, however, continued to take the plea that the increase was only around 10% and they had merged annual and other one-time yearly charges into tuition fees to not burden parents in April when they have to buy books and uniforms.
 
 Following this parents of different schools gradually came forward and formed groups. Taking lead were parents from Mount Carmel School, Vivek High School and  . While other parents have not come out in the open, they have formed whatsapp groups and the topic of discussion is mainly fee hike.
 
 "I always wanted to raise voice against schools hiking fees but earlier there was no suitable platform. Last year an association was formed on the issue of commercialization of education and it had parents from all schools as members. It was motivating and also relieving as there were little chances of being targeted by a school individually," said Kavita Bansal, a parent from  .
 
 "The problem has always existed but this year the schools have increased the fee far more than allowed. They have themselves given us reasons to raise voice," said Sabeeha Khan, a parent from St. Joseph's Senior Secondary School in Sector 44. The school too has been served notice on the fee issue on Wednesday.
 
 "People nowadays are more aware about their legal rights. Today society is more aware of unprecedented and arbitrary behaviour of educational institutions. I feel people pay heavy fees for education of their children but they don't get results as they expect. So they are not satisfied with education system," said Munish Goel, a parent of St Kabir School, Sector 26.
 
 "Education is meant to be free. But it seems that schools have merely turned into money-making institutions. The Chandigarh parents' association has made it their aim to make a better world for their children to study in. Countless parents have joined in this initiative, realizing that there is indeed strength in numbers. I've joined the movement as its easier to get results as one common force against wrongdoings of the schools," said Gurpreet Kaur, a parent from Vivek High School. 
 
 Nitin Goyal, president of Chandigarh parents' association, said, "When we formed the association in April last year and started challenging the legality of high fees charged by private schools, no one believed things could change. But in one year, there has been a visible impact. Parents from all schools have started uniting into groups and filing court cases. Many have been telling me that they are afraid that the school will harass their kids if they file a case against the school. My response is that the new child protection laws are so strong that they can't harass kids anyway."
 
