

 
 
 
 There are many issues, at least 15 unresolved, which are critical. For example, the definition of agriculture, definition of agriculturist, what happens to a share cropper?
 
 
 Further, what needs to be resolved is the definition of a state. Now a question that has come up suddenly is whether the area of 12 nautical miles from state borders belong primarily to the Centre or to states. Gujarat gets Rs 1,200 crore from ships (through taxes on high seas). Maharashtra, Kerala, Karnataka, Odisha and WB have been collecting taxes. All of a sudden, some subtle interpretation of the constitutional variety has emerged. There are issues such as clauses related to arrest and non-profiteering.
 
 
 It is the most draconian measure. Barring Gujarat, no state has the arrest clause in VAT and it has never arrested anybody . Tax violation above Rs 2 crore will be eligible for arrest but is bailable. Above Rs 5 crore is non-bailable. And who gets the power? The tax officer. What kind of power? The same power a police inspector has.
 
 
 
 
 Several states, including   said this should not be there. Then, the question was let us keep it and then water it down. Why not drop it and make it same as VAT law? In Bengal, tax collection doubled in five years without the power to arrest. States across political parties are of the view the arrest clause is in violation of ease of doing business.
 
 
 
 
 The argument made by businesses was that competition should take care of the fact that when we benefit from taxes, if I don't lower my prices, somebody else will. It may not happen in a monopoly or an oligopoly . That's where the competition commission is supposed to intervene.Now, you are looking at another authority . A point made by a large   state was that how many items among thousands are we going to chase?
 It will be cherry picking resulting in inspector raj. Is this the GST we want?
 
 
 
 The minute you enable yourself, you open the gate for po tential inspector raj by an authority that has not yet been defined in the law. This clause was introduced by Malaysia and it has failed.
 
 What about dual control and what is the so
 
 The empowered committee came to an unanimous decision that was informed to finance minsiter   in Kolkata and again in Delhi. The consensus was that below Rs 1.5 crore, states should continue to look after all the business, including goods, deemed goods and services. The central bureaucracy , especially the   has 86,000 tax personnel, while the states have 2.65 lakh. The underlying political issue is one of federalism. There is a feeling that if there is dual control, and if the Centre has a say below Rs 1.5 crore, it will end up with the central offices in sub-divisions, or even lower than sub-division level.
 
 
 
 
 A call also has to be taken on the nature of the product.The question is who is going to take that call? For how many items? You are talking about thousands of items that may fall between two different rates. Not a single meeting has taken place on fitment of products.
 
 
 
 The approach of the central bureaucracy will have to undergo some change. In case of dual control, in the case of IGST, both of them have been objected to by the central bureaucracy . Six meetings have been postponed on the topic of dual control.
 
 You are not committing to a date.I would not commit on a date
 
 I would not commit on a date till we have answers to these questions.
 
 
 
 
 Does it appear to you that in a month what remains to be settled will be settled? That will be magical. You can have a sub-optimal, truncated GST with draconian clauses, inspector raj thrown around.Is that what the nation has betted on GST?
 
 
 
 
 When we ventured we knew the nation will take a hit on tax collections, particularly states. That is the reason we asked for compensation. At that time there was no other economic hit in the picture and then came demonetisation. Can the economy take two hits simultaneously? We found cesses in the GST council that will go into a fund.How much? Rs 55,000 crore.Tomorrow, if it is Rs 85,000 crore where will it come from? The Centre has promised nothing. Why can't the Centre ay that we will give it from the Consolidated Fund of India?
 
