In three years’ time, foreign languages may be almost wiped out from   thanks to the three language formula set to kick in by 2020.

 The three language formula prescribed by the board tells students to pick any two Indian languages other than English as second and third languages. This means that foreign languages like French, German or Russian may not have any takers as students will have to pick them as an elective or fourth language. They may also not be considered as a qualifying subject, say schools. However, juggling four languages is no easy task for students who will already have to study three languages until Class 10 along with tackling their boards. 
 
 Avinash N, a class 7   student, says that although he was interested in learning French, he is not keen on taking it up as a fourth language. “Studying four languages will only mean a lot more work and I might eventually have to enrol outside later. But it may have been simpler if I could just learn the basics at school,” he said.
 
 School heads too feel that the possible wiping out of the languages is not a great move as it restricts students’ options.
 
 “Tamil Nadu’s case is different from many other states as we already have the   Tamil learning act (2006) that mandates all students to study Tamil as the second language. So students only have one option to pick as their third language and now that will be restricted to an Indian language alone so the foreign languages may barely find takers,” explains Bhavans Rajaji Vidyashram principal Ajeeth Prasath Jain. 
 
 Also, this means that the language option of Hindi may get replaced by mother tongues students can pick any one of 22 Indian languages as their third language option. Hindi and Sanskrit have been the go-to options for students until Class 8 so far under the current system. 
 
 Jain also said the requirement of teachers for Hindi, which was once the popular second language option, came down when the compulsory Tamil was promoted. In 2014, a gazette notification was passed by the state which promoted only Tamil as the second language across central board schools.
 
 Now, if students pick their mother tongues (among the 22 language options) over Hindi or Sanskrit, the requirement may further come down. Jain says that the school hasn’t recruited any Hindi teachers for nearly two years as the number of periods for third language is lesser than that of second language.
 
 
