JAIPUR: The   accused the state government of backtracking on its promise. It said the government had promised that it would not give appointment to any category till the matter of special backward classes (SBC) reservation issue is resolved; but accused the government of carrying on with recruitment in violation of the agreement.

 Addressing the media the Gujjar leaders said Gujjars and other four castes under SBC that were originally in OBC were now not considered either in OBC or SBC quota. They have sought the intervention of chief minister and a clear position by the government on the issue by January 15. This is also the date for the third round of talks after the high court struck down the 5% special quota for SBC citing reservation crossed the 50 % cap.
 
 Ombir Singh Mandaar, national president of   said, it was unheard that the government which went to the high court seeking a stay on its order returned with the matter further complicated with the high court extending the ambit of its order to those who already got government jobs under SBC quota. The original order of the high court did not mention anything about the people already given appointment but the government move has done a disservice to the cause of the SBC candidates. He said it is against the principal of natural justice.
 
 He said it has never happened in the past. In the reservation for Jats of   and Dholpur, the high court and the   granted exception to those already got employment. How could there it be different for Gujjars, he asked. According to government estimates 4000 people under SBC have been given appointment.
 
 Himmat Singh, the spokesman of the Gujjar Arakshan Sangarh Samiti said in the recent recruitment of 610 firemen posts, 28 from the SBC made it to the merit list but none of them got appointment while all other categories were given postings. He said this is a breach of promise as the ministers had given an assurance that till the matter is settled, no appointment would be made. He demanded the intervention of the chief minister who had guaranteed to protect the interest of the SBCs.
 
 The Gujjar community will not hold talks with the government after Jan 15 and government had to spell out its action plan to protect the interest of the SBCs, he said. eom
 
 
