BHOPAL: Staging a protest over the last couple of days near  , sadhus called off their stir on Wednesday following an assurance of a dialogue with them regarding their demands by the state government.

 They had been protesting against the present norms for the management of temples under the supervision of district collectors. The stir was being held under the banner of Madhya Pradesh Sant Evam Pujari Sanyukt Mahasangh outside a temple on Kamla Park road. Sadhus had not only threatened to intensify their agitation in the state capital but were also planning to campaign against the BJP in ongoing  .
 
 The protest, which started on Tuesday, got over on Wednesday afternoon only after the representatives of the government, including ADM GP Mali, reached the spot and convinced the sadhus that the government will soon discuss the issue with them and will bring out an order in their interest. As per the government rules, temples structured on government/donated land are managed under the supervision of the concerned district collector. However, sadhus want the government to change the rule and bring the management under them. There are around 25000 such temples in the state.
 
 Mahamandelshwar Narsingh Das, who came from Dhar to take part in the protest, said, “The government encroached upon our land years back. They auction the temple land and even take the offerings from donation box. These lands were donated to us hundreds of years ago by the kings. We raised the demand in the past as well, but it went unheard.”  , head of  , said, “Had they not paid heed to our demands we would have campaigned against the BJP in Uttar Pradesh.   president had even arranged around 200 vehicles for campaigning.” Mahamandaleshawar Computer Baba, a renowned sadhu from Indore, said, ‘The BJP wins elections by resorting to politics of Hindutva. They talk a lot about welfare of Hindus, but don’t do anything for them. However, they have now agreed to discuss the matter with us, after which we have called off our protest.”
 
 Meanwhile, pleading anonymity, a top official of the cultural department said, “The priests want to take over the management of temples for financial gains. Many of them have filed petition in court to bring the land under their ownership. However, I feel these temple lands are safe just because they are managed by collectors. Even the Supreme Court is in favour of keeping them under government control.”
 
