AHMEDABAD: Corporate office of   reported a major fire on Sunday evening and a team of   (AFES) doused the flames after two hours of operation. Primary investigation revealed that the fire started from server room and spread in other parts of the building. As it was Sunday, the office was closed and a major mishap is averted, said AFES officials.

 As per AFES officials, they received the call for fire at around 5 pm from second floor of   near Navrangpura railway crossing. "Two floors - first and second - occupied by the company had reported major smoke due to which the fire was detected. There was very poor visibility and thus we had to break almost the entire glass facade in the front to provide vent for the smoke to ease," said an AFES official.
 
 When the fire fighters reached inside, the interiors had become very hot and oxygen masks were used to breath. The team of around 30 firemen led by two officers including chief fire officer   started the operation with a hydraulic platform, four fire fighters and four water tankers.
 
 Dastoor said that prima facie the short-circuit or over-heating of electronic wiring might be the reason for fire. "But thorough investigation would require for any specific answer," he said.
 AFES officials said that as the office was closed, there was delay in report which allowed fire to spread. "On the other hand, the good thing was - the building was empty due to Sunday and thus there were no injuries or evacuation. The company officials had also reached at the spot to assess the situation," said an official.
 
 RV Desai, inspector of Navrangpura police station, said that the road from Mithakhali crossroads to Navragpura railway crossing was closed for two hours so as to ease the operation and to keep the commuters away from harm," he said.
 
 It was second major fire incident in two days for AFES. On Sunday, a firecracker factory at Vanch village near Ramol was gutted in fire that had claimed a woman's life. AFES had doused the flames after four hour long operation.
 
