CHENNAI:   general secretary V K   on Sunday held a press conference, flanked by   and their family members, at Golden Bay Resort in Koovathur near Mahabalipuram, in an effort to prove that she has not incarcerated them. 

 "Now, my friends in the media can see for themselves how much freedom they enjoy. You have seen them. You can report. There have been deliberate attempts to defame and spread lies about us by members who have defected from us. They have been aided by enemy party members," said Sasikala.
 
 She alleged that her 
  . "MLAs have had to hide their children in the house of relatives, following threats. They approached me with their fears," said Sasikala.
 
 When questioned as to whether she was alleging that Tamil Nadu chief minister O Panneerselvam was threatening AIADMK members, she said: "You people are intelligent, you can see for yourself. There is no need for me to say anything. Everyone knows what is happening in Tamil Nadu. And the forces behind those actions."
 
 Sasikala threw open a challenge to the media, saying "Please start counting the number of MLAs I have."
 
 When asked 
  , Sasikala said: "When it comes, let's see." 
 
 Asked about Tamil Nadu Governor Ch Vidyasagar Rao's silence on this issue, she asked the reporter, "Did you guys guess about this earlier?"
 
 On being asked about her bid for the chief minister post and whether she feels she is likely to succeed in her bid, Sasikala asked, "Why are you trying to get ahead of yourself? Let us see." 
  
 She concluded the press conference in 10 minutes. However, mediapersons were not able to count the MLAs in the confusion that prevailed in the hall after the press conference was over. 
 
 Sasikala arrived at resort at 5pm and held talks with the MLAs till 7.20pm.
 
 More than 15   were beaten up by AIADMK men just before her arrival at Koovathur. The journalists sat on the ground and protested, following which they were allowed to enter the resort -- for the first time since the MLAs started staying there on Wednesday evening.
 
 
