Hit by low returns and starved of lucrative investment avenues,   of some of the top   are betting on Indian stocks. Endowment funds of  , Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), University of Notre Dame and Washington University are testing their luck in Dalal Street, largely preferring the primary market.
 
  The assets under management (AUM) of   in Indian equities touched Rs 2,592 crore in January 2017, up 74% in a year. The total AUM of FPIs in India rose 26% in the same period, according to data compiled from the depository NSDL.
  
  Endowment funds of universities are built on money received from donors or alumni. The earnings from the fund’s investments are used to run the university.
  
  
 
  University endowment funds typically belong to the class of investors with long investment horizon. Some of them were anchor investors in IPOs of Alkem Laboratories, BSE, Endurance Technologies, HCG, Inter-Globe, PNB Housing Finance, and Quess Corp. Their investments accounted for 1-10% of the total anchor book of these IPOs. The average listing gain of companies where university funds invested was 45% in calendar 2016 when the benchmark S&P BSE Sensex gained 3.8%.
  
  
 
  Among the major funds,   (HMC), the world’s largest university fund with AUM of $35 billion, has been actively participating in the Indian primary market. Of the total 27 IPOs that hit the market in 2016,   took a stake in the five companies as anchor investor.
  
  Emily Guadagnoli, vice-president of communication at HMC, said they would be unable to comment on the investment strategy of the company.
  
  In an email response to ET, Scott Malpass, chief investment officer of the endowment fund of the University of Notre Dame, said, “We have a global perspective to our portfolio and there are some very attractive, fast-growing consumer companies in India that we would like to own over time.”
  
  The total endowment fund value of the top 25 US universities stood at nearly $270 billion in 2016. Some of the funds have investments up to 10% of the total fund size in emerging markets.
  
  
 
  V Jayasankar, senior executive director &head of equity capital markets, Kotak Investment Banking, said that endowment funds follow strict parameters to choose stocks: quality of management, strong earnings potential, stable past financial performance and lower disruption to revenue. Thus, their investible universe is limited.
  
  Why do they prefer the Indian primary market over secondary trades?
  
  First, it ensures picking a reasonable stake without the risk of impact cost.
  
  The BSE maiden offer had three university funds as its anchor investors — thanks to the duopoly model of stock exchange in India and 84% marketcap to GDP ratio as against 110% or more in developed markets; second, a dearth of investable opportunities.
  
  The overall performance of the large global endowment funds has not been impressive in the past two years. In 2016, they posted their worst performance since the financial crisis of 2008. Hunt for better yield is driving them to experiment with emerging market equities.
  
  Here, the IPO route gives them a better chance to pick companies that are less dependent on general economic environment.
  
  Some of them use hedge funds to buy shares in the secondary market.
  
