CHANDIGARH: The   to hand over the probe of two cases related to damage to the residence and other properties of state finance minister   to the CBI has been challenged in the Punjab and Haryana high court. 

 The main argument against it is that once a probe is completed by the police and   submitted to a magistrate, a fresh investigation into the same matter cannot be ordered. The petitioner, Ashvin, one of the accused in this case and a resident of Chuliyana village in Rohtak district, has sought directions to quash the notification regarding handing over the matter to the CBI. 
 
 The petition, which came up for hearing on Monday, stated that there were only two FIRs in this regard. In FIR no. 45 there is one accused while in FIR no. 118 there are 40 accused. According to the petitioner, investigation has been completed and final reports have been submitted by the police to the magistrate. After this, now , the state government has referred the matter to the CBI.
 
 Ashvin contended that no application was moved by the police before the magistrate, seeking permission for fresh or further investigation or before the higher court seeking permission for a  .
 
 Strongly opposing the state government’s move, the petitioner has argued that the said powers could only be exercised where the investigation has not been completed and if completed, the magistrate has not taken cognizance of that report.
 
 “If the investigation has been completed on the same set of allegations pertaining to the same offence by the police and the final report under section 173 (2) of the CrPC has been submitted before the court on which the magistrate has taken cognizance and has committed the case to the competent court, then the powers to send it to the CBI for further probe cannot be exercised,” he argued.
 
 After hearing the arguments of the petitioner, Justice Rajesh Bindal of the HC referred it for further hearing before a bench headed by Justice S S Saron, which is already hearing the cases related to Jat reservation.
 
