BENGALURU: The pain doesn’t seem to end for site owners of   after   and hiccups delaying building of their dream homes, their sites are now getting filled with mud and   every day.

 Members of the Arkavathy Layout Allottees’ Association say hundreds of trucks dump excavated soil and debris in the layout. "Illegal dumping of debris is happening in 18th block of the layout, adjacent to Hennur Road, right behind an international school. They clearly think this is an empty site, and are dumping construction waste. We confronted the truckers, but instead of stopping, they started dumping at night,” said Subramanya Reddy, an allottee of Arkavathy Layout 18th Block.
 
 The layout, formed by the BDA in and around Geddalahalli and Byrathikhane, and covering 16 villages, had run into a series of controversies over denotification and the compensation to be paid to land losers.
 
 “Our people met an officer from Hennur police station regarding the dumping, and he told us to inform the police as soon as we see a truck unloading debris in the area,” said G Shivaprakash, office-bearer, Arkavathy Layout Allottees’ Association. "We also believe that the contractor roped in by BWSSB to build a sewage treatment plant in the adjacent area is dumping debris in the layout, as are other private violators,” he said. "It is possible that debris from other BWSSB projects is also finding its way to this site.”
 
 "We spoke to those working on the STP, after which dumping stopped for some time, but has resumed. The debris is coming from other projects in the surrounding areas,” added Reddy.
 
 S Nagaraju,  , Yelahanka Zone, said, “We have identified a quarry to dump construction waste, however, there are some people who dump at night. We have officials patrolling the area to fine these miscreants. We will definitely look into the matter.”
 
 
 
 
 Another issue worrying the future residents is depleting groundwater. "The locals have drilled three borewells in the adjacent areas, and there is already a borewell inside the layout. These people are digging borewells for commercial purpose, to sell the water in tankers to residents in nearby areas,” said Reddy.
 
 "Since we are the future residents of this area, we are naturally concerned about this violation, which is exploitation of precious groundwater resource,” says the association.
 
 
