HYDERABAD: With limited seats available in  , candidates seeking admission to courses such as agricultural engineering, food science, metallurgical engineering and automobile engineering among others, are sure to face a tough competition.As per schedule, results for the engineering, agriculture and medical common entrance test (Eamcet) 2017 will be declared by the   (JNTU), Hyderabad on May 22. After the results, students will have to choose their area of study as per their respective ranks.

 But if the seat allotment status for Eamcet 2016 is anything to go by , out of the 29 courses on offer, as many as 19 courses had a limited number of seats -most of them in double digits. Of that, 90 per cent were filled by candidates eyeing agricultural engineering, automobile engineering, biotechnology , civil environmental engineering, dairying, food processing technology , industrial production engineering, mechanical (metronics) engineering, metallurgical engineering, mining, material science and nano technology and textile technology .
 
 Experts indicate that even while the count of students interested in certain courses has increased over time, college managements have not enhanced their intake accordingly .
 
 “High investment is required for courses such as metallurgical, automobile and chemical engineering, whereas for courses related to computers such as communication and information technology , the invest ment is comparatively lower.Therefore, Telangana has higher number of seats in computer science and IT,“ said   , president of the Telangana Affiliated Engineering Colleges Teachers' Association.
 
 To cater to the demand for skilled aviation professionals, around 173 engineering colleges across the state will soon offer tailor-made courses in aeronautical engineering to bring their curriculum on par with industry requirements. However, due to the lower number of seats, many students are now seen seeking admission in colleges located in neighbouring states. Courses such as food science, food processing and technology , agricultural engineering, dairying, etc. are particularly in demand.Lack of enough seats in Telangana for pursuing courses in agriculture and allied fields is, in fact, forcing students from the state to pay lakhs for admission to private agriculture colleges in Maharashtra.
 
 “There is an increasing demand for BSc in agriculture course due to the expansion of agriculture and seed industry in Telangana. But, because the number of seats available do not meet the demand, large number of students are going to private colleges in Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra. Many are also opting for management quota seats in seven new private colleges in  ,“ said  , an agricultural scientist.
 
