Indore: Taking its drive against cattle owners in the city forward, Indore Municipal Corporation ( ) on Saturday demolished three big illegal structures at Bakra Mandi where goats were being reared.

 Officials said notices were issued to owners of the illegal property but they did not remove them, which is why the civic body had to take action.
 
 “Three buildings were completely demolished. In another building, one floor was illegal and only that floor was razed,” said MS Chouhan, deputy commissioner, IMC.
 
 More than 200 employees of the civic body reached the area early morning on Saturday. All household commodities were removed and big machines were used to tear down the structures.
 
 Though IMC expected some resentment from residents of the area, no major brawl was reported as the security was very high.
 
 “We had conducted an analysis of the area for the last three days and came up with proper planning so we did not face any problem,” Chouhan said.
 
 The civic body did not find animals in any of the structures that were torn down.
 
 “Animals were not present in the area but there were properly constructed sheds for them. Looking at the condition of the area, it was very clear that the animals had only been recently shifted,” Chouhan said.
 
 Chouhan also said the area where the animals were kept was unhygienic. Officials of the civic body said they had prepared the list of structures where such activities were being carried out before hand and action would be taken against all illegal houses where cattle are reared.
 
 “Strict norms are in place. If anyone is found in violation of them, action will be taken,” said Manish Singh, commissioner, IMC.
 
 Drone cams used to monitor security
 
 Indore: The civic body has made it a practice to take a police force along with them during any demolition and this time, IMC and police took measures like never before.
 
 After the demolition started, police used a drone camera to keep a check on security. This was the frst time a drone camera was used in demolitions.
 
 “This is one of the most sensitive areas where demolition has taken so far. The narrow streets make it all the more difficult to work and we had to ask the police for proper security,” said MS Chouhan, deputy commissioner, IMC.
 
 On Saturday morning a three layer security arrangement was arranged for by officials of five police stations.
 
 Nobody was allowed to even go near the places where the structures were being demolished. Police officials accompanied all senior IMC officials and workers during the work.
 
 More than 200 police officials took charge of security in the area. They were seen all over the place from roads to terraces of houses.
 
 “Since the houses are built very close to each other, officials have been deployed on terraces to monitor any threats,” a police official said.
 
 
