CHANDIGARH: Punjab finance minister   on Friday announced that the   government had decided to open a vigilance bureau (VB) inquiry into Rs 12,000 crore missing foodgrain scam.

 The foodgrain scam was detected last year after the   (RBI) had found that Punjab government took loans, known as cash credit limit (CCL) from 30 banks, for procuring wheat and paddy but those funds were either diverted or grains could not be delivered to the Food Corporation of India (FCI) as there was massive shortfall in the food stock.
 
 “We have decided to set up a vigilance bureau inquiry. There is certainly some bungling here. Whether its financial or pilferage of grains. Either of that. So the job of VB would to be find out who used up the Rs 12,000 crore or where foodgrain disappeared. There is also an interest of Rs 20,000 crore on that which takes the total amount to be Rs 31,000 crore. The inquiry will be set up after the vote on accounts of the ongoing first Vidhan Sabha session for sure,” Manpreet told TOI.
 
 He made these remarks on the sidelines of the first Vidhan Sabha session after the Congress stormed to power on March 11 with 77 seats relegating ruling SAD-BJP combine to the third position with 18 seats. 
 
 The RBI had decided to mark the loans as potential non-performing assets, forcing banks to withdraw any further lending to Punjab government last year. Manpreet, who is former Punjab chief minister Parkash Singh Badal’s nephew, asserted that VB would be free to probe all ministers of the previous government or the food affairs minister of that time.
 
 This is the second time in last one week when Congress has announced to review, probe or cancel SAD’s policies, first two being transport, and excise and taxation. Manpreet insisted that none of these moves can be dubbed as a vendetta.
 
 “Punjab is facing a debt. We need to find both money as well as help our farmers by getting their debt waived off. The motive is to help our own state get out of the financial mess,” said Manpreet.
 
