RANCHI: The tourism sector of Jharkhand is getting ready for some heady days. Buoyed by eight   signed during the recent   summit the   has drawn up plans to set up ropeways, adventure tourism, wellness resorts, activity camps and swanky malls at various scenic spots across Jharkhand.

 The department hopes to garner more than Rs 2,273 crore through the eight MoUs in various sectors of tourism and the projects are expected to generate employment for more than 13,000 people. 
 
 The chief minister   after inaugurating the Rajrappa Mahotsav in Ramgarh recently also laid the foundation of 41 projects worth Rs 126 crore. He had said: “The state government is developing adventure tourism, mining tourism, religious and cultural tourism in the state. We plan to provide residential facilities in Deoghar and Rajrappa in the lines of Tirupati.”
 
 “We have held several rounds of meetings with the investors and have shown them earmarked sites. The next meeting with the investors is likely to be decisive,” said a senior official of the state tourism department. 
 
 Theme-based resorts which promise to provide a unique combination of sports and healing are part of the MoUs, said a source. Resorts focusing on adventure and wellness activities are likely to come up at Hatia, Urva near Tilaiya dam in Koderma district and near Maithan dam at Dhanbad. Water sports, naturopathy clinics will be the   of these resorts, said the source.
 
 “The state government also seeks to set up activity-based camps in places like Netarhat in Latehar district where tourists can opt for treks and other activities. These camps will be operated by private organizations,” said an official of the tourism department.
 
 The state government also plans to promote other forms of adventure sports and zip lines at waterfalls around the state – Hundru, Jonha, Dassam, Hirni, Lodh and Panch Gagh. 
 
 As part of the MoUs signed during the global investors’ summit, denizens of Ranchi, Jamshedpur and Dhanbad will also soon see more malls being set up which will provide a variety of facilities like cinema halls, entertainment centres, shops and gaming zones. “Viability of these short-term projects is now under scrutiny. Once that is complete work on these malls will commence,” said a state government source.
 
