AURANGABAD: The   (KT) weirs, which are in a shambles at many places across the state, could soon be   using the  

 A first-of-its-kind major project of converting KT weir into barrage is nearing completion at   in Nilanga taluka of Latur district. Chief minister  , who visited the barrage during his Marathwada tour on Thursday, expressed satisfaction over the Latur pattern of transformation of KT weirs. 
 
 The new barrage at Aurad Shahajani has been built on Terna River, which is tributary of Manjra River. It is built by erecting pillars and placing 10-meter long metal gate. Major cost of the project went into the metal gate, which weighs nearly 360 tonne, authorities said.
 
 The KT weir has been turned into a water storage facility with a capacity of around 3.7 million cubic metre. It is expected to irrigate 883 hectare agricultural land in five villages of Mane Jawalga, Shelgi, Tagarkheda and Sawari along with Aurad Shahajani. The nearly 116 metre-long barrage has been constructed at the cost of Rs 12.43 crore.
 
 Ajay Kohirkar, chief engineer with the water resources department, Aurangabad division, said Latur pattern involves construction of barrage adjacent to KT weirs in upstream area by making optimum use of energy dissipation system, spilling arrangement and bridge structure of later. Unlike KT weirs, the barrage constructed using Latur pattern has vertically operating gates. 
 
 “The cost of constructing new barrage in Latur pattern is considerably less as compared to any other barrage. It is because the need of setting up energy dissipation system that takes care of input energy associated with heavy flow of water is done away. Also, the bridge structure of existing KT weirs is aptly used to avoid duplication,” he said.
 
 Besides wear and tear as well as other natural and man-made damages, KT weirs have limitations in operations, especially during heavy rainfall and flooding. “Every KT Weir has multiple gates depending on its width. It cannot operate unless and until all such openings are closed. The barrage we have constructed also operates by partial lowering of gates. Thus, effective storage and release of water entering from catchment area is ensured,” Kohirkar said.
 
 While a few small KT weirs have already been transformed into barrages using the Latur pattern, the one being built at Aurad Shahajani is first such large project coming up.
 
