By- 
 

 Nowadays, students are under a lot of stress because of academic pressures, temptations unleashed by   and  . In most homes, there is absence of healthy and strong relationships. Many think that death is the only solution when a crisis strikes. There is no mechanism that helps students share their problems.The only quick fix is a helpline.
 
 They don't have much experience and are not provided adequate training in life skills.As a result they have very less ability to cope with stress when life takes an unexpected turn. Parents, always busy and in search of better jobs and grades try to make their children 'export products'. In this pursuit, emotional life of children goes for a toss. As a result, students turn to recreational drugs or fall into exploitative relationships. The `model' solutions they adopt to deal with stress and conflict are often full of negativity.
 
 It is the parents and teachers who should equip them to deal with stress and help them become good human beings. Everything else will fall in place.
 
 By life skills, I mean good inter-personal communication abilities,   and self-esteem. They should know their strengths and weaknesses and also ways to handle failure. They should be assertive enough to say no to temptations that result from peer pressure.  , empathy for fellow beings and taking a positive stand are also deeply important. If they are under stress, students should talk to somebody or pray, do meditation, breathing exercises and try to stay cool. When the sea is turbulent, the ship is anchored. It moves only after the sea is calm.
 
 Our society has failed to develop good child-friendly experiences. We don't even have good children's movies. The kids are attracted to soap operas which propagate a lot of negativity. Several instances of where children attempt suicide have come to our attention.
 
 There are three failures which should be addressed. Children should feel that they can share everything at home.Support systems should be built within the family. Any thought of suicide that they harbour in the face of failure should be completely annihilated.
 
 For the students, I say if you experience self-destructive thoughts, postpone everything.Share your distress with friends or family. Whatever be the issue face it boldly. There are always other options. Don't pull down the curtains before the play is over. There is much more to come.
 
 (C J John is a senior psychiatrist. As told to  )
 
