PUNE:   under the Warje flyover on the   is a daily phenomenon. However, one road leading to the junction is usually packed with wrong-way drivers, compounding commuters’ woes. The fact that the road does not have a no-entry sign, demarcating it as a one-way, makes regulation a laborious task for the police as well.

  resident Navnath Shirsagar drives a tempo in the area, while his brother runs a juice stall at the busy junction. “Throughout the day, traffic from Katraj side moves in the wrong direction under the flyover. The police try to manage the situation, but only one traffic cop stands at the left turn from Karve Road towards Katraj, while so many vehicles travel in the wrong direction,” he said.
 
 The traffic police is posted at the junction from 9am to 11am and 7pm to 9pm. For the rest of the day, this side of the junction remains unattended, Shirsagar added. 
 
 Rickshaw driver Mahadev Raghoji said, “The auto stand gets disturbed due to motorists travelling on the wrong side. When a number of motorists halt here due to the traffic signal, it becomes difficult for us to move the vehicles in the correct direction. The police don’t catch them either,” he said.
 
 Although the turn towards Katraj from Karve Road is planned to be a one-way road, as per traffic movement, there is no notification to this effect, traffic police officials point out. Speaking to TOI, a traffic official said, “That road does not have a ‘no-entry’ sign to identify it as a one-way. We have even written to the civic body’s traffic department to put up the sign in the past but no action has been taken. As a result, we are unable to fine those caught driving on the wrong side on this particular stretch.”
 
 Traffic police sub-inspector Suhas More affirmed that there is no sign identifying the road as a one-way. “However, we have been fining many violators at the junction. On an average, 40 to 50 commuters on two-wheelers are fined on a daily basis,” he said. Despite repeated attempts, PMC chief engineer Srinivas Bonala remained unavailable for comment.
 
