Even as we debate the country’s economic growth, developments around the globe and the   on Indian IT sector, here is something to ponder. The leasing activity for prime office space across key cities in India continues to remain strong with absorption crossing the 10 million sq ft mark in the April-June quarter this year, as per India Office Market View Report — Q2, 2017 of international realty firm CBRE South Asia.

 This is a 28% increase over Q1 (January-March), 2017 and signals the continued growth for the segment, with sectors like IT/ITeS, BFSI and engineering and manufacturing driving office space leasing activity across Indian cities. It indicates increased employment opportunities for Indian engineers and other graduates.
 
 Interestingly, the share of US-based corporates in the quarterly transaction activity increased from 44% in Q1, 2017 to 50% in Q2, 2017, while the share of domestic corporates rose from 33% to 37% during the same period.
 
 "While there are concerns expressed on off-shoring and outsourcing at the macro-economic level involving the US, the concern is more on job creation, especially in the manufacturing sector. Given the political stability in India and the improvements in infrastructure across the country, more global companies are keen to set up shop in India," said  , managing director, Advisory & Transaction Services – India, CBRE South Asia Pvt Ltd.
 
 Jaxay Shah, CREDAI national president did not want to attribute the increase in the leasing activity by the US firms to Trump effect. "This is just the starting point of a surge and early signs of ‘Make in India’ campaign gaining traction. Investors are influenced by the political stability and the reforms being ushered in by the Central government. India is on the radar of every investor across the globe. The GST will give the next big push for foreign direct investment," Shah said.
 
 According to the CBRE report, during the quarter, the leasing activity was led primarily by Bengaluru, NCR and Hyderabad. Interestingly, Hyderabad witnessed significant activity during the quarter, overtaking Mumbai. "Bengaluru and Hyderabad had the maximum new supply. Good supply also enthuses corporates, especially in IT/ITeS, to expand their operations in those cities. In the case of Hyderabad, after the return of political stability, it has become a viable city in the south and a lot of private equity capital is coming into not only the realty sector in general, but also in the office space segment in particular," Gupta said.
 
 On the supply side, completions more than doubled on a Q-o-Q basis during Q2, 2017, with about 8.2 million sq ft of completions reported during the quarter. Bengaluru and Hyderabad accounted for more than 60% of the supply addition, followed by Pune and Mumbai.
 
 As for Chennai, IT/ITeS corporates continued to lead the demand, accounting for more than half of the leasing activity, followed by BFSI and e-commerce firms. Bulk of the demand was concentrated in IT parks, owing to limited supply of SEZ space. Rental values remained stable across most micro markets, the report said.
 
 "Chennai is looking down, compared to the huge surge witnessed in Hyderabad and Bengaluru, with the latter retaining its larger IT/ITeS share. It has been low for Chennai for many years," Gupta said.
 
 "The office space absorption trend has been very mixed, backed by a strong belief that supply will reduce drastically. The enquiries that have been witnessed in the recent past are not showing any buoyancy and there has not been any million sq ft deals in Chennai," feels  , president,   and managing director, Olympia Tech Park.
 
 Some large developments in the office space that were expected to be ready in 2017-2018 are still under progress. "As of now, it looks like there will be a huge shortage for quality office space in 2018. But, again in 2019, we will have a problem of plenty as large projects will get ready," Chordia added.
 
