NEW DELHI: Traversing in time through memoirs,   is set to take her audiences on a nostalgia-fuelled journey in ‘Bandish 20-20,000 Hz’. This is the first play to be staged under the   banner this year; three shows over May 27 and 28 at Kamani Auditorium. Aadyam, an   theatre initiative, has over the past two years, staged 10 new productions, one of them being Naresh’s ‘Ladies Sangeet’.

 ‘Bandish 20-20,000 Hz’ is a play about two yesteryear singers and two contemporary ones exchanging notes from the bygone episodes, interspersing them with pivotal songs and dance.
 
 “Even as the singers reminisce of the times of their lives, the anecdotes serve to remind us of how sometimes thing that we held close need not hold the same importance today. As they recall and dwell in some alluring nostalgia, they also work through human politicking, generational and cultural gaps with the other two young artistes, as the younger ones are affected by the conversations between them,” Naresh said.
 
 The play is evocative, nostalgic, romantic and full of music, humour, pathos, and relevance. Although on its surface it may seem to have all the makings of being a crowd pleaser, the play is theatrically strong as it makes people laugh and introspect, while occasionally moving them to tears.
 
 “The play is set in a small town where some artistes have assembled to honour the seven-decade career of a senior singer. The two yesteryear singers meet in the green room of the event where the singer is to be lauded and start conversing. Their conversations and anecdotes form the crux of the story,” Naresh said, adding that through these short stories, we look at how fame and success is transient, how our choices and beliefs undergo a sea-change as time and age progress.
 
 Naresh’s deft use of music has made her truly one-of-a-kind. Just as the music in ‘Ladies Sangeet’, ‘Bandish 20-20000Hz’—given its musical setting—tastefully employs songs and dances not to fill in the anecdotal narrative but to carry the story forward in chords and rhythms.
 
 Naresh, being a singer and a Pakhawaj (percussion instrument) player, has given her productions a definitive sound of music. “The music in ‘Bandish 20-20000 Hz’ is a mix of Nautanki, Baithak, dadra, and other vintage sounds. There’s even a lively Bombay ditty that dates   the British Raj,” Naresh said.
 
 This being Naresh’s second Aadyam outing, the director is now well-versed with the theatre initiative’s style of working. She believes that Aadyam’s nurturing nature sets it apart from other sponsors of live events. “With Aadyam, there’s a great deal of creative freedom. They are constantly giving you feedback that is balanced and in no way intrusive.”
 
 
