TRICHY: Once again   has become a hot topic among the people in the central region with a group of people including doctors, social activists joining together to press the Union government in picking Sengipatti in Thanjavur as the location for AIIMS in Tamil Nadu. The protesters alleged that Union minister Pon Radhakrishnan tried to shift the project to Madurai though the site in Sengipatti had an edge over Madurai in several parameters 

 The Federation of Consumer and Service Organisations (FCSO) led the attention seeking protest in which the call for selecting Sengipatti as the location for AIIMS. 
 
 “Out of the five locations identified by the state government for the project, Sengipatti and Madurai were taken into consideration. Sengipatti remains on top based on many parameters prescribed by the Union health ministry under the challenge method. Now, we demand the government to take a call on the issue based on the merits and not budge to pressure from politicians,” said M Sekaran, president of the organisation, pointing out that the role of Pon Radhakrishnan to establish AIIMS in Madurai was said to be prominent. 
 
 Sengipatti in Thanjavur district was one of the five locations identified by the Tamil Nadu government in 2014. The state government finalised the site after the Central and state teams of officials visited Sengipatti, Chengalpattu in Kancheepuram, Pudukkottai town, Perundurai in Erode and   in Madurai in 2015. 
 
 Citing an   reply given to him by the Union health ministry, Sekaran said that Sengipatti scored well than Madurai under the challenge method – early availability of suitable land, provision of utilities (power, water supply etc), health indicators and gap in tertiary health care facilities, connectivity (road, rail, airport), primary and secondary healthcare facilities nearby, accessibility of school and college facilities, employment opportunities for family, fast track single window for clearances, financial incentives. 
 
 Former vice-principal of   government medical college, Trichy, Dr M A Aleem suggested bringing AIIMS in both the locations. “Like some other states where two AIIMS have been allocated, the Central government can consider Tamil Nadu for AIIMS in two locations to make the speciality treatment available to everyone easily,” he said.
 
