VISAKHAPATNAM:   (IGZP) in the city will be the first zoo in India to initiate the Digital India drive and facilitate e-health, zoo mobile apps including My.Gov.In, Attendance.gov.in, Swachh Bharat,   and e-booking. As part of this initiative, IGZP launched the wifi system and upgraded its website on Sunday.

 The zoo will launch an e-hospital application to provide services for animal health such as online registration of information, diagnostic reports, enquiry on various methods of treatment and exchange of information and solutions online. The park has effectively adopted zoological information management system wherein information related to animals is maintained and treated with a unique identity, informed zoo curator B Vijaya Kumar.
 
 “I hope the launching of digital services and website enhances tourist footfall. I also hope a night safari commences in Vizag too,” said vice admiral of   HCS Bisht who was also the chief guest for the occasion. 
 
 e-education through website is aimed at providing all information regarding history of the zoo, list of animal species housed there, animal husbandry, habitat, flora and fauna, zoo events, botanical species, ecology, relevance of wildlife conservation and research. Schools can access this website for learning.
 
 The e-booking app will aid in online booking of tickets and also furnish information on immediate plans of animal exchange programmes, recent/new arrivals to the zoo, visitor amenities, guides and information on touring executives and their assistance.
 
 My.Gov.in is a platform to share inputs and ideas on matters of policy and governance. It’s a platform for employee engagement in governance, through discuss, do and disseminate approach. Digi locker facility will provide zoo employees secured access to government issued documents, informed the curator.
 
 “Further, to enhance the security and surveillance network service, wifi technology and cameras are being launched. It will facilitate close monitoring of animals and collaboration between all security facets for action during emergencies. There are also card readers, alarm systems and temperature controls. Motion sensors can be employed to create electric fences, which can trigger an alert when visitors step over the boundaries into an exhibit. The free wifi benefits the visitors with android phones to get Andie video information on zoo inmates. Reliance Jio is providing free wifi facility to the zoo,” said Vijaya Kumar. 
 
