DARJEELING: Amid all the crisis and despair surrounding the Hills, news from an unexpected quarter has rekindled hope and faith in strife-torn Darjeeling.

 Two red pandas and four   have taken birth in the two breeding centres in two remote locations of the   in Darjeeling amid a complete shutdown which has entered its second month.
 
 This is an achievement worth mentioning even in peacetime. According to tioning even in peace experts, it is difficult to breed both the species. But with life in the Hills coming to a complete halt due to indefinite strike, the six new lives have brought a ray of hope.
 
 “The red pandas, an endangered species, were born at our   breeding centre on July 13. The four cheer pheasants were born at our Dowhill breeding centre near Kurseong on July 11,“ said director  .
 
 Topkedara breeding centre is located near Jorbangla, at least 15 kms from Darjeeling, and is used to breed only red pandas and snow leopards, whereas Dowhill is used to breed birds and herbivores.
 
 Darjeeling zoo currently has 15 red pandas but the breeding of the animal is very difficult and requires a lot of hard work. Similarly, cheer pheasants, which is considered vulnerable by IUCN and found in eastern Himalayas, also needs detailed attention for breeding. “We have met success after a long time in both cases,“ said Chand. The sex of the red panda cubs has not been determined yet because the keepers cannot go very close to the babies as the mother is protective and can end up harming her offsprings in an attempt to guard them. “It will take at least three months,“ said Chand.
 
 Though the indefinite strike in the Hills has entered its second month and all the shops and business have been shut, there has been no crisis of food for the animals till now. The zoo authorities have been procuring beef and mutton for the carnivores locally . The chicken, which cannot be procured locally given the huge quantity required, and fruits and vegetables are being brought from  . “Both the administration and the local leaders have been very supportive. The supplies come from the plains once a week escorted by armed guards and nobody has tried to attack or loot the supplies,“ said Chand.
 
 The indefinite strike in the Hills strike in the Hills has brought some relief for the inmates of the Darjeeling zoo. The officials have observed a change in the behavioural pattern of the animals. Two researchers are already documenting this change in the zoo.
 
 “The animals have been visiting the pockets inside their enclosures which they would avoid earlier. For example, we have seen that birds, herbivores and big cats now come in front of the enclosure because there are no visitors and they feel relaxed. We have observed that they have also become less irritable,“ said Chand.
 
