MANGALURU:   is true Indian and he/she partakes in every activities of the country and aims for development, said  , Judge, Supreme Court.

 Kurian was addressing around 6,000 youths from across India during the valedictory of 10th National Youth Convention-2017 in city on Sunday. Speaking on the topic--- the youth on Constitutional Rights and Duties - Youth Responsibility, he asked them to be the harbinger of change. "I am the change and I can be the change. Don’t try to change others but change yourself. Today we must be the agent of change of our self,” he said.
 
 Stressing that everyone is equal in country like India and constitution too upholds the same, he said that youth should not discriminate anyone in the name of caste, creed and sex. “We are all equal, be it a Bishop, Prime Minister or Chief Justice of India. All of them have only single vote to cast during election just like common man,” he said adding that India has welcomed different religion and languages from other countries and freely allowed to practice the same. “It is a constitutional right to follow and propagate one's religion, and it is the right of every citizen. Be a true Christian and love the nation and be a part of the nation-building. If you participate, there is peace, if there is peace, there is development. Youth should feel --I am the change and I can change—and need to stand and look for the change and strongly believe in bringing the change.
 
 How do you bring change in the society? Kurien asked youth to discharge Fundamental Duties of Indian Constitution. Apart from it, don’t try evading from paying tax because it’s a sin committed against God. Keep your premises clean, support civil society movement, raise voice against injustice and participate in nation building activities.
 
 Earlier in the day, a peace rally was held in the city streets and culminated at St Aloysius College grounds. Scores of youths, several Bishops, people representatives took part in the rally. The convention concluded with Holy Mass.
 
 The 10th National Youth Convention which began on January 18, saw participation from thousands of youngsters from all over the country. The convention was held on the theme 'Touched by Jesus, Walking His Way' and the focus was on preparing tomorrow's leaders today. The convention was organized by the Indian Catholic Youth Movement (ICYM) under the auspices of the youth council of the Bishop's Conference of India (CBCI), and hosted by the Karnataka Region and Mangaluru diocese in collaboration with the dioceses of Udupi, Belthangady and for the first time in Karnataka.
 
