NEW DELHI: Elections to over 17 seats now stand challenged in courts in Uttar Pradesh, some eight petitions have been filed in Uttarakhand and three in Punjab while there is none in Goa as per information shared with the   so far, on the recently concluded state assembly elections. EVMs deployed in these seats will accordingly not be used for the   tampering challenge.
 
  It is expected that the final number of election petitions (petitions that challenge the result of a particular election) filed in the states could go higher, especially in UP. Earlier this month, Uttarakhand High Court admitted six election petitions.
  
  While the EC has rarely kept any database on the number of election petitions filed in a state after it has conducted elections, this time around it is keeping close tab on the data. Reason being the mega drive that the EC is launching to restore the credibility of the Electronic Voting Machine. While EC is preparing to open up EVMs used in the assembly elections for the tamperability challenge, the machines used in seats for which election petitions have been filed will not be made available.
  
  These particular EVMs and other poll material will be kept under lock and key as evidence for investigation till the election petitions are disposed off by the courts.
  
  High decibel protests have been made by parties of all hues- challenging the fairness of the election and the credibility of the EVM.   had demanded that EVMs used in Punjab elections o be opened up for the challenge. BSP chief   has also alleged EVM tampering in UP. A number of MPs also called upon the EC to express their concern on the issue.
  
  Taking serious cognisance of the various allegations and complaints surrounding the EVM, the Election Commission has decided to address these doubts comprehensively. The first step being taken is to hold the all party meeting on the issue on 12th May. Following the all party meeting and factoring in the issues raised therein, the EC will finalise the details of the EVM challenge contest.
