BENGALURU: Chief minister  's instructions to the   (BMRC) to remove Hindi from its signage has revived the demand for a two-language policy in schools, which virtually removes Hindi as the third language. The   ( ), whose letter to the government on Thursday prompted the chief minister to act on the Metro issue, is taking the lead in this matter.
Activists from Banavasi Balaga, who initiated the Metro agitation on Hindi sig nage, and those from the Campaign for Language Equality And Rights (CLEAR) are planning protests, while a host of writers and intellectuals have supported the move. Some others have advised a cautious approach.
 
 SG Siddaramaiah, chairperson, Kannada Development Authority , said: “Now that the Metro issue has taken a positive shape, we will take up the issue of language in schools. Imposition of Hindi is being carried out in the guise of an optional third language, which need not exist. We believe the two-language policy is best suited for the state.“ Anand G, a member of CLEAR, argues that there is no constitu tional recognition for the three-language policy and it's only an agreement between states and the Centre.
 
 “We are not opposed to Hindi-speaking people or learning the language, but we certainly believe that forcing students to learn Hindi as a third language is unnecessary imposition. The larger agitation is for equality of all languages and campaigns like Metro and schools are means to achieve that end,“ he said.
 
 Anand said campaigners are already in talks with Members of Parliament from many states, including Karnataka, to introduce private bills seeking equal status for all languages in the 8th Schedule of the Constitution. “Amendments to Articles 344 and 351 of the Constitution will resolve all these issues,“ he added. Siddaramaiah said that as a statutory body , the KDA will exercise its authority while also following all procedures to ensure a two-lan guage policy is in place.
 
 Writer M Chidananda Murthy , an active leader during the Gokak Movement in the 1980s, said there must only be two languages in schools and that a third language is unnecessary. Echoing his views, eminent writer PV Narayana argued that if one state (TN) can implement a two-language policy, other states should also be able to.
 
 Tharasu Shyam, senior political analyst and general secretary of Tamil Nadu's anti-Hindi imposition students' movement in 1965, said: “There was a three-language policy even in Tamil Nadu until the   was in power.While we had been vehemently opposing it, it was only in 1967 that a two-language policy was implemented, after the DMK came to power. The same could have been done in Karnataka. However, with a national party at the helm, the state could never emulate TN."
 
 
 
 
