Is she a Jew?” asked an old lady. “No, why do you ask that? Only because her name is Mazel?” quipped her friend as the women shuffled along with a crowd towards the open space at a Hitec City venue. “I heard she sings in a lot of different languages,” the old lady enquired again. “Yes. She even uses sign language to put across her point in compositions,” her friend informed as they sat down on the chairs lined up before a small podium in the arena.

 The women didn’t know, but the name “Mazel” has nothing to do with the woman they were talking about. Who they referred to is  . A French singer and composer known to the world as the vocalist of the band  . On a six-city India tour, Ruth and her five-member ensemble was in Hyderabad on Thursday to offer, as they call it — a brand of universal soul music.
 
 The stage was lit; the crowd, though small in numbers, had arrived; the sound guy had examined his gears; everything was set and raring to go when the pre-monsoon showers decided to pay a visit. Though it didn’t stay for long, the duration was lengthy enough for the organisers to shift the venue from the open arena to one of the halls in the campus. And all the pre-concert preparations were repeated all over again, this time indoors.
 
 “As far as the desert, we will go,” said Ruth as the daya of the tabla and the mridangam rolled in a subtle laggi announcing the commencement of the recital. By then the empty chairs positioned in the hall, which we presume is commonly used for play rehearsals, were already filled up. Without further ado she burst into a melody in C Major. With   and   shouldering the melody section on accordion and guitar respectively, and   and   in-charge of percussion duties, her voice crooned a gypsy travelogue that picked pace with progression.
 
 As they say “morning shows the day”, the group’s first rendition established that it’s indeed world music the gathering is here for, but from a gypsy’s point of view. “Yes, my music has a lot of gypsy folk elements in it. It’s my soul’s music, which doesn’t have a defined language,” averred Ruth, after the recital.
 
 Composed mostly in C and A Major, majority of the ensemble’s renditions are gypsy folk songs from different countries with elaborate instrumentation that, at times, surpassed even the original compositions. “This is how we like to do in our shows. It’s about impromptu improvisations keeping the audiences’ response in consideration,” said Koustav, whose sun-burst Epiphone guitar was a sheer treat for anyone who believes in feel-based guitar playing.
 
 And Ruth with her mezzo-soprano voice kept the audience glued rendering songs in languages ranging from Armanian, Ladino, Comorian and Serbian to her native French. A few of her songs highlighted a more personal and softer side to her in which she spoke about her mother often addressing her as “my old lady”. “I don’t know what to call our genre of music. Maybe I will simply term it as ‘my music’,” said Maxime.
 
 After helping us “travel around the world” with their music, Mazel B’s “gypsy caravan” stalled with a French song. The crowd, which comprised of different nationalities from around the world, gave them a standing ovation and that ended the band’s Hyderabad chapter. The five-member ensemble will take the stage yet again for the last leg of their six-city tour in Chandigarh on March 18.
 
