MUMBAI: It was a sight which enlivened a lazy Sunday afternoon.

 As he walked back to the pavilion after cracking a magnificent, unbeaten double hundred (202 not out, 210b, 27x4, 7x6)a knock during which he dominated the bowling   was generously applauded and greeted by not just his India 'A' teammates, but by the entire Australian team.
 
 The fact that it took the Mumbaikar less than 24 hours to earn the respect of a bunch which was going hard at him after he began thrashing their spinners, tells you about the impact of Iyer's innings. Turn around the pages of history and you'll learn that admiration of Australian cricketers is earned only by special players performing special feats.
 
 The significance of Iyer's epic effort can also be gauged by the fact that it's the first double hundred by an Indian batsman against a visiting side after batting legend  's much-talked about unbeaten 204 (his first first-class double hundred) in the 1997-98 season. Incidentally, both the knocks came against the same opposition-the Aussies, and the same venue-the Brabourne.
 
 This is now the 22-year-old's highest score in First Class cricket - his previous best was 200 at the Wankhede against - Punjab in the 2015-16 Ranji Trophy season. Iyer looked to be running out of partners when   (21) and Ishan Kishan (4) were out cheaply, but the youngster was then aided by a surprising blitzkrieg from off-spinner   (74, 68b, 10x4, 4x6). 
 
 The Karnataka tweaker recovered (from a hamstring injury which prevented him from bowling in the first innings to add 138 in 136 balls for the seventh wicket with Iyer in a partnership which added to the woes of the Aussies.
 
 Gowtham launched a particularly severe assault on Nathan Lyon hitting his counterpart for four sixes which landed way over the sight screen. Being smashed around by a little-known bowler in India was not a pleasant experience for the 29-year-old.
 
 Later, Iyer seemed to be in danger of missing out on his double hundred as he was still on 184 when the ninth wicket fell. The young turk then tore into Steve O'Keefe, blasting 18 runs in an over from the left-arm spinner (his sequence of scoring shots being 4,4,4,6) to get to his target, before India 'A' folded up for 403. The Aussies finished their second dig at 110-4. 
 
