NEW DELHI: Australia quelled India's momentum during an absorbing day's play, led by  's 19th Test century and comeback man Glenn Maxwell's unbeaten 82. India, who struck with three important wickets of  , Matt Renshaw and   in the morning session, and then that of Peter Handscomb in the second, went wicketless post tea as Australia halted their progress to reach 299/4 at stumps, their highest total of the series.

 Smith's second century of the series - the first one in Pune played a huge hand in Australia drubbing India by 333 runs - is his sixth against India. He is the only man to have entered the three-digit figure and he needed this after all the negativity surrounding him over the last week. He came in at a spot where one more wicket for India would have swung the tide. Instead, he kept batting and put on the highest-stand of the series with Maxwell, playing his first Test since 2014.
 
 This was Smith's slowest century in Tests in terms of balls. But during the innings, he went past 5000 Test runs, becoming the seventh fastest to the landmark. Having lost three prior to lunch, along with Handscomb, Smith put up the second fifty-plus stand after Renshaw and Warner had seen the team through to their first 50 runs of the innings. Umesh Yadav and Ishant Sharma's reverse swing kept the batsmen on their toes, but Smith was the assurance that kept Australia firm.
 
 If there was a time for Maxwell to try and stamp his authority as a Test batsman, this was it. Prior to this innings, the maximum he had lasted in a Test innings was 26 balls. The fact that he took 57 balls to score his first boundary was a testament to his resilience. Barring a leg before shout - that India lost a review on after the replay showed Ishant overstepping - Maxwell showed an amazing level of composure. Once set, Maxwell paced his innings nicely. He was on 34 when Smith was on 90. Later, when Smith reached 87, Maxwell's score read 65.
 
 He showed tremendous level of composure while batting. In fact, his 82 not out is the highest score by an Australian No.6 since Smith's 100 against South Africa in Centurion in Feb, 2014. He had for long expressed his desire to bat at this position. Subdued initially, Maxwell batted as well as one could remember. He hit the only two sixes of the innings, both of Jadeja and both making crunching sounds off the bat.
 
 After the dismissal of Handscomb, trapped leg-before to a lovely inswinging yorker by Umesh, India had the opening, Maxwell and Smith watchfully churned 159 runs between them and blunted the Indian attack. R Ashwin and   struggled to get sufficient purchase and the pressure of not getting wickets resulted in a weird tactic of bowling outside leg which did nothing but bleed runs. Perhaps the absence of   from the field also had a bearing. The Indian captain took a bump while diving to stop a boundary and went off the field not to return for the remainder of the day.
 
 Contrary to the belief prior to heading into the match, this was the best surface of the Border-Gavaskar Trophy. There was hardly any awkward bounce, vicious turn or balls that stayed low. Despite that, India seized the early advantage and applied the brakes at crucial junctures - first seeing the back of Warner when Australia seemed to be collecting runs at ease against the new ball, and then when Renshaw looked set for his third half-century of the series. The pitch not being much of a fuss, the ball came smooth onto the bats of Warner and Renshaw, who got Australia off the blocks. The quick outfield meant that all the batsmen had to do was place the ball in the gaps. They did so and runs came thick and fast.
 
 Renshaw was in fine touch. A couple of flicks through the leg side and a forward defensive push fetched him early boundaries. He outscored Warner, who was content rotating the strike to allow his partner to take most of it initially. Renshaw responded well. His first 24 runs were all boundaries. He survived a close leg before shout, and India seemed closing in on a review but settled against it. Rightfully so; the ball had pitched outside leg.
 
 Jadeja struck in his first over when Warner, having hit a splendid cover drive off the previous over, slapped a low full toss straight back at him. Smith, as usual, applied his twinkle-toed approach to spin and Renshaw hardly broke a sweat. That is before a double blow lifted India. A lapse in concentration on part of Renshaw resulted in his dismissal. 
 
 Umesh came round the wicket and he edged it to first slip. The lapse in concentration bit happened the ball before. To a similar delivery, Renshaw had offered an edge that had bounced just before Ajinkya Rahane. The next one though, found the safe hands of Kohli. Three overs later, Marsh offered a bat pad catch to Cheteshwar Pujara at short-fine leg. 
 
 
  Australia 299/4 (Steven Smith 117*, Glenn Maxwell 82; Umesh Yadav 2/63) at stumps on Day 1
 
