PANAJI/MARGAO/CANACONA: An integral part of Margao’s  , Longuinhos, situated in the heart of the town, has withstood the test of time. Almost seven decades old and one of the first restaurants and bars to have been set up in the commercial capital, it is bracing itself for the dry days ahead. 

 A regular at the restaurant, Ivo Pereira, says he will miss savouring a glass of beer along with his meal.
 
 “If someone wants a drink, nothing stops them from travelling a distance and buying it and stocking it in their vehicles. Goans don’t drink much. It’s the tourists who abuse liquor and fall on the streets,” he says.
 
 Longuinho’s sausage rolls, beef croquets, steaks, fish curry-rice and its proximity to the Margao market ensures a steady flow of locals, tourists and NRIs, many of whom have fond memories of the restaurant.
 
 Ilio Coutinho, one of the partners, believes it is not curbing the availability of liquor that will help bring down the number of road accident deaths, but stricter implementation of rules by traffic police. 
 
 The Supreme Court order has also hit another iconic restaurant, Porvorim’s O’Coqueiro, below the belt. A considerable   was spent on giving the restaurant a facelift late last year, only for it to now be slapped with a liquor ban.
 
 “After demonetization and the code of conduct, we were looking forward to the season picking up from Easter. We didn’t expect this,” Shekhar Divadkar, business head of the hospitality division of Alcon Enterprises, says. 
 
 The restaurant cleared its liquor stocks on Friday night and its bar now has only energy drinks on display. 
 
 No sooner was the SC order passed, than two groups of 25 people each cancelled their reservations at the restaurant for the weekend. 
 
 “We’re not a dabba by the roadside. How can a restaurant that is known for its fine dining be associated with   on highways?” Divadkar asks.
 
 Just like Sikkim and Meghalaya, Goa, too, could be granted relief from the order, he feels. With the national highway traversing the tiny state and agricultural land occupying a substantial portion,   are limited, he says.
 
 Clube Harmonia in Margao has also shut down its bar. 
 
