NAGPUR: More than thousand young boys and girls gyrated to the tunes of Bollywood hits being played by five DJs at city’s   on Sunday. What electrified the atmosphere further was the fact that it was all being done for  .

 Dance-A-Thon was a one of its kind event where Rotract Club of the   invited people to dance non-stop for 12 hours to create a record. “The activity was organized under   Extension and Leadership Programme which undertakes charity work,” informed Jigisha Naidu the teacher in-charge of Rotract and also HoD of commerce, management and computer departments of the college. Three other NGOs which work for stray animals and rag pickers got associated with the event which saw more than a 1000 registrations day long at the college for a donation of Rs100.
 
 What started as charity event went on to be a record maker too. “This is the first time that a   as a fund raiser has been organized in India. And so we decided to create a record too. India Book of Records gave us a target of eight hours but we ourselves decided to extend it to 12 so that it becomes difficult to break,” Jigisha informed about the event which started at 6.15 in the morning and went on till 6 in the evening.
 
 The college had also invited traditional dhol players in case the power goes off. And though western numbers were being played it was the mishmash of Bollywood numbers which got the crowd truly charged. A mixed group of boys and girls, some barefoot and others in sports shoes swayed to the rhythm and beats. “We deputed security persons and CCTV cameras to prevent any misbehaviour or ugly situation,” Naidu informed.
 
 Sonal Rajpal, a science student said, “I love to dance and am doing it here as this is to raise funds for charity.” “There can be no greater fun than dancing with friends all day long I am enjoying so much,” gushed Kashish Kalsi a first year commerce student. For Priyal Wadekar of G.S. College, however, it was her love for animals which made her dance. “The funds will be used for welfare of stray animals so I am doing it,” she said.
 
 There were many like Parinday dance group who honed their skills here. “Our performances don’t last for more than five minutes but here we have been dancing for hours,” said Rohit Dhokey while Ketki Ikhankar was delighted to pick up so many dance styles and steps here.
 
 There were prizes to be won too. “We have kept four special prizes and lucky draw too and one prize is for the elderly lady Shailaja Vyas who came in the morning and danced through the day,” said Khayti Golchha, president of Rotract club.
 
 
