KOCHI: During raids as part of  , police registered cases against two illegal money lenders.

 Police have identified the accused as Sojan of Kombara, Ernakulam and Joy of Kumbalam. Police have registered a case against Sojan under Kerala Money Lenders Act and Kerala Prohibition of Charging Exorbitant Interest Act while cops slapped sections under Kerala Money Lenders Act on Joy.
 
 It is based on a case filed by a person at   police station that Sojan was arrested. Police seized five tittle deeds, four promissory notes, two stamp papers of Rs 100 denomination and a bank cheque from Sojan. Police seized a cheque from Joy.
 
 Man held for theft: Aluva East Police arrested a person on the charges of theft. Arshad, 26, son of Shaji of Kodikuthumala near Aluva broke open the doors of a house at   and looted TV, laptop, mobile phone, three watches, gold ear rings weighing 6g and a pair of sports shoes. The theft occurred in the early hours of July 22. Police are yet to nab two accomplices of Arshad. Police recovered TV, two watches, mobile phone and a pair of sports shoes from Arshad’s house.
 
 In another case, Ernakulam North police, arrested a person who steal bicycles. According police, Jaleel, 45, alias Kamaru of Chengamanad is a thief specialized in stealing bicycles. Jaleel would roam around bylanes near cinemas at night wearing Khaki shirt and dhoti. After identifying high end cycles in houses in the area, he would unlock it using screw driver and handkerchief. The stolen bicycle would be sold to migrant labourers at Vypeen.
 
 At the same time, incidents of theft are increasing in   area. Second of its kind within a week, thieves looted five shops near Eroor on Monday night. A couple of days ago three shops, including a poultry shop and medical shops were looted.
 
 On Monday night, thieves broke the shutters of the shops open. They looted a textile shop, an electrical shop, stationery shop, a travel agency and a bakery. They got away with around Rs 8,500 stole from all these shops. After taking the cash the cash boxes were left behind these shops. CCTV in some of the shops could capture the images of two persons.
 
 One among the duo was waiting outside the shop on his bike while the other entered the shops with mask and looted. “We have CCTV images of the thief and we suspect the operation was done by duo riding a bike,” said S Sanal, sub-inspector, Hill Palace police station.
 
