Chennai: While several corporates are still reeling under the attack of the WannaCry ransomware, cyber security experts say most companies do not have basic security protocols in place. Ransomware is an extortion technique used by cyber criminals where data on computers and other devices is encrypted and held for ransom until a specified amount of money is paid.

 According to a report by IBM, ransomware was one of the leading cybersecurity threats in 2016 with the FBI estimating cyber criminals, in the first three months of this year, making a reported $209 million. The IBM study that surveyed 600 business leaders and more than 1,000 consumers revealed that 70% of these executives said their company paid to resolve the attack, with half paying over $10,000 and 20% paying over $40,000. Nearly 60% indicated they would be willing to pay ransom to recover data. The data types they were willing to pay for included financial records, customer records, intellectual property and business plans. While the threat continues to hover around individuals and consumers, awareness is key to mitigating its impact.
 
 “Companies that have been attacked do not even know if the data that has been encrypted is important or not. Basic IT protocol mandates demarcation of data/assets as critical and non-critical,” said Tarun Wig, co-founder, Innefu Labs, which works with several companies and government organisations on cyber security. 
 
 This level of awareness comes in when organisations put in place protocols from ‘Day One’. 
 
 “Installing random fixes will save companies from this tide alone. Corporates need to think long term and implement simple process systems while aligning it with certification standards of their industry and geography,” said Shanmugavel Sankaran, founder, FixNix, a startup in the area of GRC (governance, risk and compliance). Fundamental processes like patch management systems and license management systems could have mitigated the impact of Wanna Cry, he said. IBM has products that pick up information from around the world, analyse behavioural patterns and give intelligence in case of an anomaly. “Over a month ago, we warned our clients that ransomware had the potential to become rampant. We have products that facilitate automatic running of patches and help customers be proactive,” said Kartik Shahani, director & leader security India/ South Asia at IBM.While companies undertake IT audits on a regular basis, their systems are not far from being at risk. “Cyber security is always as good as previous assessment that was done. Security assessment of the enterprise is a point in time exercise,” said Kartik Shinde, partner and cyber security leader for financial services, Ernst and Young. “When we do an assessment and find infrastructure, application or process level gaps, it is for that point of time. Security is a continuous process. An organisation has to keep checking for vulnerabilities,” he said. 
 
 “Where vendors have released patches, it is paramount that companies adopt regular hygiene practices,” Shinde stated. “If the patch has not been released, then the classic defence would be to have layers of security. This will slow down the bug and give you enough time to react,” he said.
 
 
