DHARAMSALA: A   from Bani block of Paragpur area in  , Ritu Prashar was found dead along with her three children at a guesthouse in Jwalamukhi. 

 The victims included Astha and Prarthna, both 12-year-olds, and Rudraksh, 7.
 
 Police have registered a case under Section 174 of the CrPC and taken the CCTV footage and guesthouse register into their custody. They said no suicide note was recovered from the spot.
 
 Inquiries revealed that Ritu (38) had brought her children from the school after half day and checked into the guesthouse around 5pm on Friday. However, the staff at the guesthouse got suspicious when they noticed that all foour appeared to be under the influence of some drug and they informed the owner. Soon after, the guesthouse owner called up police on phone.
 
 When cops reached the spot around 11pm, they found the victims’ bodies lying on the bed. When they called up their relatives, the police were told that all was well on the domestic front and that they never expected Ritu to take such a drastic step. 
 
 “It is beyond our comprehension. We never imagined that she (Ritu) could take such a drastic step (of poisoning her children). She had brought children home from school after half day,” said Deepak Sharma, a relative of Ritu, while talking to TOI on Saturday.
 
 Desraj Bharti, the guesthouse owner, said his four guests had gone to their room after saying that they would stay for a day and visit the Jwalamukhi temple. “All had their dinner outside,” he added.
 
 “There were three bottles of aluminum phosphide (sulphas) in the room,” said SSP Sanjeev Gandhi. While two were empty, one was untouched, he added. 
 
 The police officials said that preliminary evidence suggested that the victims may have consumed some poisonous substance around 9.30pm. The bodies were sent for postmortem late on Friday evening and later handed over to Ritu’s relatives. The postmortem examination report was awaited. 
 
 Sources said Ritu’s husband is a cable operator and was active in politics in his native area. 
 
