VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh Tourism has come up with a number of interesting projects to boost tourism in the coastal districts, most of which are concentrated in the East Godavari-Krishna area. The new initiatives include beach shacks in 19 locations, renovation of the Havelock Bridge, development of tourism infrastructure at  , heli tourism in the port city, push to water sports in Vijayawada, development of Konaseema on the lines of Kerala and berthing of INS Viraat.

 Among the projects meant for Vizag district, the site for placing INS Viraat is yet to be finalised, while the construction of seaplane jetties has hit a roadblock due to non-feasibility of the site. Regional director for tourism, Vizag region,   said, “The backwaters of Bheemili was selected as the site for seaplane jetties. But technical experts said seaplanes require a minimum drop of 5 feet which is not available during low tides. Moreover, the problem of sand deposition also persists. Therefore, search is on for alternative sites for jetties.” There’s now a proposal to construct such jetties in Kakinada, East Godavari, and Vijayawada, Krishna district. 
 
 About the other tourism projects for East Godavari, executive engineer from the tourism department, Kakinada, S Srinivas Rao said, “In Maredumilli, there are plans to develop APTDC resorts and wayside amenities with state budget in collaboration with   (ITDA). The plans and project details have been approved. The tender process will commence soon.” As per the tourism department, around Rs 20 crore would be invested for Maredumilli eco-tourism project.
 
 Meanwhile, the heritage three-kilometre Havelock Bridge across Godavari river is to be developed into a tourist destination. “The state government has already initiated the process of purchasing the 120-year-old decommissioned bridge at a cost of Rs 13.5 crore from the ministry of railways. Viability gap funding has been undertaken for this project with a budget of Rs 120 crore. The bridge will be transformed into a tourism-cum-recreational facility under public-private partnership mode,” said executive director of APTDC, Rajahmundry, Bhimshankar Rao.
 
 Another tourism project is the development of Konaseema region which has backwaters and lush green paddy fields on the lines of Kerala. “The land identification process is likely to be completed in a fortnight. We are seeking help from international consultants to develop tourism infrastructure in this region which will include houseboats, five-star resorts, water sports and so on. Accordingly, an action plan will be prepared,” Rao said.
 
 Apart from these, for developing water sports in Vijayawada, the tourism department has entered into an agreement with yacht clubs and water sports operators on PPP mode.
 
 
