When   was diagnosed with Primary Progressive   few years ago, her world came crashing down. But not one to let the disease deter her from living her life to the fullest, Swarnalatha took things in stride and decided to play to her strengths. Today, she runs an organization that works for the betterment of individuals with Multiple Sclerosis and other neuro-muscular disorders. She along with her husband, Guruprasad TS, have been actively working for the welfare of the differently-abled in Coimbatore. Some of their initiatives include  , a special transportation service for the differently-abled to any destination of their choice in the city and a calendar titled ‘I’m Special’ that showcases talent of the differently-abled. 
Swarnalatha is a  , singer, social activist and a mother of two children.
 
 
 
 I was diagnosed with Primary Progressive Multiple Sclerosis in 2009 and my life had turned upside down. I was paralyzed from my leg down. There was so much information on the internet about Multiple Sclerosis and it was just mind-boggling. The doctors who treated me didn’t tell what was wrong with me. I was puzzled and didn’t know what my future looked like. I didn’t even know if my condition was temporary or permanent. My son was just two years old then. I was able to walk at that point of my time. In 2011, my daughter was born. My husband Guru was offered a job at a private firm in Coimbatore and we moved here in 2012. My condition worsened rapidly after coming here and I was soon wheelchair-bound.
 
 
 
 When I was in the hospital, I was quite devastated. I somehow mustered up courage looking at other patients. Some of them were in a worse state and a few couldn’t even afford good treatment. Financially, we were also going through a tough time. While I was diagnosed with Multiple Sclerosis, my father-in-law was suffering from Parkinson’s disease. We had two small children to take care of. Our financial condition improved only after we moved to Coimbatore. I decided to face life and put my skills to good use.
 
 
 
 My children have accepted the fact that I can’t do what other mothers do. My family does not take vacations as it’s difficult for me to travel. It was only last year that we managed to do a trip to Malaysia and Singapore. They do not want me to feel left out and hence, avoid vacations. I cannot attend PTA meetings or take them to the neighboring park. I know I am not doing enough justice to my children. My husband Guru has been a major pillar of support for us.
 
 
 
 When women in the prime age of 18- 40 are diagnosed with Multiple Sclerosis; they go through an identity crisis. This is more prevalent among married women as family and children takes centre stage for them. They bury their passion and do not mind their dreams remaining unfulfilled. It eats them up from within, but they do not show it.
 
 
 
 A lot of people have wondered what could I do confined to a wheelchair. My answer to that question is, ‘What can I not do confined to a wheelchair? Women are the creators of life and their life is not under anyone’s control. I am an independent woman, who strongly believes that I should make the most of the only life I have. Mothers have to be role models for their children. Beauty doesn’t lie in beauty parlours, but within.
 
 
