MUMBAI: A report released on Tuesday on female genital mutilation (FGM) in India recommends sensitization measures to prevent the “heinous practice” and calls for a separate legislation. It is a procedure which “cannot be justified as a religious practice”, said the report prepared by Lawyers Collective, a human rights  , and Speak Out on  , a group of survivors. 

 The 57-page report analyses various gender-based legislations existing in India and highlights the need for a separate law to deal with the issue. “There is no specific mention of FGM in our laws and the practice largely goes unnoticed,’’ the report notes. The report conceptualised by senior lawyer and women’s activist   spells out a road map of measures needed to be taken. There should be a helpline to conduct awareness programmes in schools, it says. “Ward committees, panchayats and civil society groups should coordinate with each other effectively to sensitize the   community and conduct safety audits. Specific duty may be cast on the religious or community leaders to carry out such awareness generation programmes,” the report also reads. 
 
 Education, rehabilitation and awareness building are essential for a sociolegal change as social reforms through education are as critical as legal interventions, said the report. The NGO said it welcomes a recent statement by  , minister women and child development where she said, “the custom of female genital mutilation (FGM), practised by the   community, is a criminal offence and if the community does not stop it voluntarily, the government will bring in a law to ban the practice.” Masooma Ranalvi, convener of Speak Out said the report titled Female Genital Mutilation — A Guide to Eliminating the Practice of FGM in India said “a law against the practice would serve as a strong deterrent in the otherwise law abiding Bohra community.’’ “The recent case in the USA against three Bohras for performing FGM on multiple girls has hit home the point that FGM is secretly and silently being perpetuated,’’ she said. “It has also been seen, internationally, that it has proved necessary to have a specific law dealing with the subject, which addresses not only prosecution but also prevention, education, awareness building, relief and rehabilitation,’’ the report said.
 
