PUNE: Unidentified criminals lifted two   and valuables worth Rs 1.13 lakh from a four-wheeler parked in front of Sambhaji park on J M road on Wednesday.

 This was the third such incident since June 27 and the latest victim is Shaileshkumar Jagdish Patil, a 34-year-old cardiologist from Solapur. He had kept the bag in the boot space of his vehicle and the miscreants lifted it sometime between 3pm and 5pm. Patil registered an FIR with the Deccan Gymkhana police.
 
 In the last two incidents, the miscreants had stolen bags containing cash, ornaments and valuables totally worth Rs 8.3 lakh of from the high-end SUVs of an architect from   and a Mumbai-based diamond merchant. Both the cars were parked on the busy Fergusson College Road.
 
 Deputy commissioner of police (Zone I) Basavraj Teli told TOI on Thursday that four incidents of bag lifting — three in the limits of the Deccan police station and one in the Vishrambaug area — were recently reported. 
 
 “We have formed two teams — one from the Deccan police and another from the Vishrambaug police. We have received some vital clues in the two cases on FC Road. We suspect the involvement of the same group in the case. We hope to crack the case soon,” he said.
 
 Teli added that police have intensified patrol in the vulnerable areas. “We appeal to people to remain vigilant,” he said.
 
 Patil told TOI on phone that he and his family reached Pune for shopping on Monday, from where they visited   in Lonavla. 
 
 “We stayed there till Wednesday. After reached Pune in the afternoon, we parked our car on JM road near a prominent garments shop. As we went out for shopping, our driver was sitting inside. After some time, he went to Sambhaji park to have ‘shev puri’. It was then the miscreants opened the boot lock with some object, stole the bags and fled,” he said.
 
 “On returning, we saw the boot door open and the bags stolen. I went to the   police chowkey and registered a first information report under section 379 (theft) of the Indian Penal Code,” Patil added.
 
