Heart-warming tales of communal harmony have started emerging from pockets of  , which found itself in the middle of a communal flare-up barely a fortnight ago.

 Muslims have offered to pay for the repair of damage caused to a village temple even as Hindus of a nearby market have kept their shops shuttered in solidarity with Muslim traders whose establishments have borne the wrath of mob violence. And at Khanpara, a Muslim-majority neighbourhood in Jir-akpur in the heart of Basirhat, members of both communities have come together to set up a resistance group after seeing how mobs from outside tried to foment trouble in their locality.
 
 “About 80% of Khanpara’s 200-odd families are Muslims. So, when trouble erupted on July 3, our primary concern was the insecurity that the nei-ghbourhood’s   families might feel. The first thing we did was to dispel this fear by calling a meeting of club members, where youths from both communities gathered. We apportioned responsibility among both Hindus and Muslims to verify and dispel the wild rumours that were being floated,” recounted Sk Aslam Hossain, known as Sooja in the locality.
 
 Initially, when trouble mongers ruled in the absence of adequate police force, there were rumours that temples were being damaged by Muslims and mosques being set ablaze by Hindus. “Every time we heard some disturbing news, we called up an acquaintance living in the neighbourhood where the incident had allegedly occurred and checked its veracity. Almost all the ‘news’ turned out to be fake. Rumours were being deliberately spread to incite communal tension,” Abhishek Pal said.
 
 The Mayer Ichchhe Kali temple near Moyelakhola Mayer Bazaar in the adjoining nei-ghbourhood was one that was actually damaged. “When the Haji Saheb of Dargah Sharif in Sonpukur learned about it, he immediately sent word that funds from the dargah’s corpus would be released for repairs,” a villager said.
 
 Hindus of a nearby market have returned this favour. Some shops owned by Muslims were ransacked and torched during the mob frenzy. Peace has returned now but shops owned by Hindus, too, remain shut as the owners have decided to restart business only when the Muslim owners are able to reopen their shops after getting them repaired.
 
 The resistance group continues its vigil at Khanpara. Every night, 15 young men — both Muslims and Hindus — walk shoulder to shoulder, guarding the locality so that every household can sleep in peace. “It is peaceful now but we are wary of trouble mongers who can cause mischief by attacking a household in the area. We will continue to be on guard,” said Mirza Ghalib, owner of a welding shop.
 
 On Tuesday evening, a feast was organised where at least one family member from each household was asked to participate. It was a simple rice-dal-and-mutton curry fare but people turned up with enthusiasm. “Some people have been holed up in their homes. We wanted them to step out and feel safe. Hence the evening picnic,” explained Soumen Majumdar.
 
 Social commeentators say such home-grown initiatives can be much more effective than mere administrative efforts at maintaining peace. “It is always much better when this awareness comes from within,” said Faruq Ahmed, editor of Udar Akash, a magazine focusing on inter-communal relations.
 
 
