LUCKNOW: Netaji, unke natak aur manifestos (politicians, drama and manifestos), that's what's served with tea at   students union canteen these days.
It takes only a mention of the assembly elections to turn heads and routine chit-chat transforms into an opinion poll.
 
 It is just another day at canteen. But as soon as a student casually mentions the Centre's demonetisation move, reactions come thick and fast. “Kahan aaya kala dhan? Sirf aam aadmi kala dhan? Sirf aam aad pareshan hua (note ban has failed to weed out corruption. It has hit only the common people),“ says political science student Prateek Jaiswal.
 
 Raising a pitch for the  , Prateek says Akhilesh has delivered on his promises. “Kaam bolta aur dikhta dono hai,“ he adds.
 
 Mass communication student Panshul Tripathi disagrees.“Kaam sirf Lucknow mein dikhta hai (work is visible only in Lucknow),“ he says. “My vote is for digital India and Swachh Bharat,“ he adds.
 
 Panshul's point irks BA student   who says, “Toh bhaiyya kamal khilao, UP ko keechad banao (elect the BJP and turn the state into sludge).“ Seeing the debate between the SP and BJP supporters, MA stu dent Ankita Malviya pitches in in BSP's support. “Vote for law and order. BSP regime was more peace ful and crime-free,“ she says.
 
 Rejecting her claim, Kushagra remarks sarcastically , “You mean the very government which dotted the city with stone structures, tak ing away its greenery?“ “Whenever I cross Gomtinagar, the pink stones and power wast age at   remind me about the erratic power in my native place, Chauri Chaura. And here, we are wasting power on stone elephants,“ he adds. He says his vote would go to any qualified leader who is sensible enough not to waste public money.
 
 “My vote will go to a party where the leader is an IITian, like Kejriwal, who has constructive plans and is not afraid of implementing the odd even formula to control pollution,“ he says.
 
 While most argue about their favourite leaders, a few say they would opt for NOTA. Suhani Ra jput, a BSc student, has a horror story to share. A friend, who failed class VIII, became the highest scor er in boards in Bahraich after a particular party came into power.
 
 “I will not vote for a party whose regime encourages mass copying and cheating.“ When in doubt, press NOTA, she says.
 
