MYSURU:   are quite the rage in Mysuru. While people are inclined to stay in  ,   are also joining the green movement.

 A number of new educational buildings are built on eco-friendly concepts. Some private institution managements are renovating their buildings to make them eco-friendly to save money, increase comfort and create a healthier environment for students and staff.
 
 City-based Maharshi Public School secretary Bhavani Shankar said their school was built 15 years ago and mud blocks were used for the walls and roof. “These blocks reduce the temperature inside the building. It’s cool during summer and winter. Another advantage is that mud blocks are stronger than burnt bricks and the load-bearing capacity is double that of burnt bricks,” said Shankar.
 
 Shankar said there’s a plan to construct a 50,000-litre rainwater harvesting tank on the premises. The water will be used for washrooms, gardening and cleaning. The entire building uses solar energy.
 
 The Maharaja Institute of Technology (MIT) in Thandavapura too has been constructed using green concepts. The college, which has already started its courses for the first year with around 250 students, is constructing an eco-friendly building which will be ready in a year. MIT principal Y T Krishne Gowda said the rooms are cool. “When compared to cement buildings, these cost less but provide a good environment for studying. We’re also setting up waste water recycling and rainwater harvesting units to treat water and reuse it for washrooms, etc,” he said.
 
 The Princely Public School in Hunchya on the outskirts of Mysuru city too has built an eco-friendly campus wherein architects from Bengaluru have designed a green and positive environment to nurture young students. 
 
 S Shamsundar, head, Centre for Renewable Energy and Sustainable Technologies, National Institute of Engineering, said, “We promote eco-friendly constructions. The anganwadi schools for tribal students at Nagarahole and Periyapatna taluks are built using bamboo under our guidance. The Swami Vivekananda Youth Movement building in Sinchanalli and Sarguru was built using mud blocks,” he said.
 
 D M Gautham, an architect of Mud Hands, Bengaluru who designed Princely Public School, said compared to normal buildings, eco-friendly buildings are cheaper to build. The building does not need any artificial cooling system. The roofing material reduces concrete and steel consumption and is energy efficient compared to conventional RCC roofing, he said.
 
