"Has   closed down?” was the question many were asking on Saturday night. It was the first night that the Supreme Court order banning the sale of alcohol within 500m of national and state highways was implemented. Since the nightlife hub is situated right next to the Delhi-Jaipur Highway (NH-48), all the pubs and restaurants there have stopped serving liquor while the   works on measuring distances and finalizing the list of places that fall within the said area. On Saturday evening, a team of Excise officials visited the establishments at Cyber Hub and took stock of their inventories. As a result of the order, Cyber Hub wore a semi-deserted look on what is usually one of the busiest nights for the market.

 
 
 On Saturday evening, several outlets in Cyber Hub put up signs telling guests that there would be no alcohol served. A staff member from   said, "We just added ‘not’ to our previous sign that said ‘Alcohol Available’. A lot of customers didn’t know the reason behind this. They asked us if we were doing this because of the Navaratra and whether the bar would open again in a week."
 
  staff said, "The customers are a bit confused too. They kept asking us if it was a temporary measure. Some were annoyed and said ki ‘Delhi se aaye hain, pehle se batana chahiye agar aisa kuch hai.’ We told them it’s been in the news. They tried to argue but we couldn’t really help them."
 
  
  Twist added ‘not’ to their original sign that said “Alcohol Available” (BCCL)
  
 
 Though the place wasn’t exactly deserted, the staff from many restaurants said that the footfall was much lower than what a weekend usually sees. A staff member at SodaBottleOpenerWala told us, "We have just been told by the management to stop serving liquor but we don’t know till when this situation will last. It’s a Saturday night and the footfall is usually high, but we have had fewer visitors tonight compared to any other Saturday night this year" After realising that their weekend party plans had been spoiled, many visitors turned back and left. Jasjit Singh, an advertising professional from the city, said, "I had read in the papers last week that this rule would only apply to liquor vends and not pubs and restaurants, so I came here for my usual weekend outing with buddies. But after reaching here, we realised that the bars were closed, so we are heading to Hauz Khas Village now. Party toh karni hi hai, bas venue change hoga."
 
 
 
 Many visitors mistook the non-availability of alcohol as a sign that the place was closing down. And many were quick to add their ‘insider info’ to the rumours already floating around. "I heard that this is the first step towards Cyber Hub shutting down. First, they will close the bars, then the food joints, and eventually, this place will only be for offices. I think it’s something to do with tax issues," one visitor shared his gyaan with his friend. Others claimed to have “knowledge” on how the Cyber Hub outlets were planning to work around the ban. Lalit, a south Delhi resident, told us, "I know for a fact that they are planning to build a new road from the highway to the entrance here. That new road will be circular and have a lot of turns so it will make the distance from the highway more than 500m, thereby solving the problem." Cheers to that, we say!
 
 
