BENGALURU: Members of the Citizens for Bengaluru (CfB) on Saturday slammed the state government for expediting preparatory works for the   project proposed along the Ballari Road even as the matter is under the consideration of the National Green Tribunal (NGT). 

 Threatening to hit the street again if the government fails to cancel the tender, the activists claimed more than 1,000 trees will have to be felled along Basaveswara Circle and Mehkri Circle for the project. 
 
 “We did a mapping of the trees and there are over 1,000 trees that will come in way of the flyover. the   (BDA)has lied to the citizens that it would cut only 812 trees,” CfB member Tara Krishnaswamy said.
 
 BBMP, which has surveyed the trees on Ballari Road, is yet to invite public for consultation. The BDA sent the proposal over a month ago to the BBMP forest cell.
 
 Guttahalli Lake in the Palace ground limits is just 39 metres from the road and the project violates the buffer zone laws set by NGT, restricting fresh constructions within 75 metre jurisdiction of waterbodies, they pointed out.
 
 
 
 
 Architect Naresh Narasimhan and lawyer and environment activist   came down heavily on the government for pre-empting the outcome of the hearing on January 30 at the NGT southern bench in Chennai. 
 
 “While Bengaluru development minister K J George said the steel flyover is just a part of an elevated road network criss-crossing the city, the BDA’s master plan for the city for 2031 does not show the network at all. This means the project is just a personal one taken up to benefit some select people who are not the ordinary citizens of Bengaluru. The comprehensive development plan is nothing but a colouring exercise where BDA has coloured most of the green turfs around the city’s periphery as brown. This propels real estate value of the land and increases urbanization but decreases sustainability factor of the city,” said Naresh.
 
 The members are irked about the BDA not responding to RTI applications filed by citizens. 
 
 Another member Srinivas Allivilli said in a response to the NGT, the BDA public information officer has said “details of the project cannot be revealed as it is a matter of national safety”. 
 
 This is despite the Central Information Commission’s 2002 order, stating that no information should be withheld in matters of environment and human rights, citing national security.
 
 Referring to George’s recent remarks on CfB members using private jets to fly, Leo Saldhana said: “We all fly but we all are not rich. The question is how the bid for the project was settled without a DPR and soil test,” he said.
 
