Amritsar: AAP’s Amritsar Lok Sabha byelection candidate Upkar Singh Sandhu, who was district (urban) president of incumbent Shiromani Akali Dal till recently, says he is well ahead in the race. Defending his move to AAP, the 63-year-old politicians says that his disenchantment with SAD was not poll-induced.

 You have been in politics for a long time but are contesting an election for the first time and that too from a new party. How does it feel?
 
 I may be new to AAP or the party may be new, but all through my life I had always stood by the people of Amritsar. I have always ensured that I was at their beck and call. Now with AAP, I am pretty thrilled that I don’t have to literally beg for votes. Instead when I go for campaigning and ask people to vote for me, majority of them reply that they have already made their mind to vote for the party. This speaks volumes about the acceptability of AAP and its candidates.
 
 Don’t you think that your Akali background and shifting of loyalty just ahead of the byelection will jeopardize your electoral prospects?
 
 No, it’s not like that. Everyone knows that I wanted to leave SAD for the past year-and-a-half. Even before submitting resignation, I was vocal against their policies, especially the incumbent SAD-BJP alliance’s failure to check the incidents of desecration of Guru Granth Sahib and arrest the culprits. This became the reason of my resignation. Now, I find that majority of traditional Akali supporters are backing AAP and they are my strength.
 
 What promises are you making to the people of your constituency?
 
 I want to make Amritsar a tourist hub in the real sense. What the present government is claiming about the growth of tourism sector is nothing but farce. You can see they have inaugurated unfinished projects hurriedly and built infrastructure in the vicinity of the Golden Temple poorly. Floor tiles have started coming off after the first rain. I have assured people of getting them employment by bringing the central government-sponsored projects, especially in the border areas, so that the youth don’t take to drugs.
 
 
