NAGPUR: Soon after the dust of   ( ) elections settled with no-contest affair, the excitement to start the next football season have caught momentum

 Just when the football enthusiast were eagerly waiting for the announcement of prestigious  , newly-elected president   put an end to their wait by declaring that the association is likely to start from July 15, if weather permits.
 
 "We have taken the permission for South Eastern Central Railway (SECR) Motibagh ground and we are in touch with police department for Police Line Takli ground. We aim to start the league at both the grounds only if the weather permits," Vora, who was talking to the media after the AGM, informed.
 
 "The league committee will decide about the format. The fixtures are expected to be ready in coming days and all the concerned persons will be informed about the same soon," he added.
 
 The association is all set to get a big boost as they are in the final stage to rope in JSW Steel, one of India's leading integrated steel manufacturers, as its sponsor for this year. The association are in talks with   after Meghe Group, which used to sponsor Elite and Super Division till last year, decided to discontinue their association due to some reasons.
 
 "Since Meghe Group has discontinued the sponsorship, we are in talks with JSW Steels. The modalities of the sponsorship are yet to be completed," he concluded.
 
 
 
 
 The one-man show in the Nagpur District Football Association will continue for next two years as incumbent president Haresh Vora was unanimously elected as its head. It will be his second consecutive term at the helm of the association.
 
 The dud election exercise, which saw no contest for any post, was followed by the Annual General Meeting (AGM) on Sunday. During the AGM, the district body co-opted three members Upendra Verma, Bernad D'Souza and Shyamal Ghosh. Apart from these members, Mobeen Saeed, Adnan and JSW Steel's   were included as invitees to the executive committees.
 
 The president will continue to serve in his earlier capacity, while some changes have been made to the body.   president Kamil Ansari and Abdul Sattari Ansari have been made vice-presidents replacing veteran   and Abdul Latif.
 
 Iqbal Kashmiri, who was treasurer during the last term, was elected as the honorary secretary. Former national referee   will be the treasurer for next two years after he served as executive member under Vora's first term.
 
 Earlier during the election, there were 18 posts to be contested in the election and exactly 18 members submitted their forms to the election officer Arif Nausher Khan. That meant all the members, who filled the nomination forms, were elected unopposed for their respective posts as there was no withdrawal and rejection of any of the forms.
 
 
 
 
 
 Haresh Vora 
 
 Kamil Ansari, Samir Meghe, Sattar Ansari and Atmaram Pande
 
 Iqbal Kashmiri
 
 Stanley Gregory
 
 Satyanarayan Jerpoth, Hemant Sahani, Sunil Kochar, Abdul Latif, Vishwajeet Day, Mohammad Khalid Ansari, Abid Khan, Ghanshyam Purohit, Sanjay Kathale, Naquib Akhter and Karamchand
 
 Salim Baig (chairman), Ashok Yadav, AB Khan and Abdul Bari
 
