VASCO: The India under-17 chief coach has come under intense pressure following accusations from at least three players that he physically abused some of them but the German in charge of preparing the India squad for this years   at home believes there is no reason for him to resign and pack his bags for home.

 Since having a meeting with   president   late on Tuesday when Patel reportedly asked the German coach to step down on his own, rather than face the axe, Nicolai has remained firm and has not changed his stance even after returning to his base in Goa.
 
 The under-17 team, on the other hand, has remained in Delhi and are not expected to resume training ­ possibly under an interim coach ­ until February 1.
 
 “The boys are calm,“ a source told TOI on Friday , minutes after the team trooped out of a theatre after watching a Bollywood blockbuster.
 
 Nicolai is understood to be perplexed by the written complaint against him and the turn of events, just eight months before the all-important tournament in India. “Nicolai was always tough on the players. He pushed them hard and, many times, he was unforgiving even if the player vomited on the field. There were murmurs but why the team turned against him, and, crucially at this juncture, remains unknown,“ said a senior offici al who didn't wish to be identified.
 
 Nicolai came under fire after the Indian team finished last in the   in Moscow early this month.India won just one of their six matches to finish last among 16 teams but performance, or the lack of it, was not the yardstick since all other teams participating in the tournament were a year older.
 
 “My plan is to play different styles of play , in different continents, in different conditions. That's why I agreed to play the tournament in Russia even though the (other) countries would send their Under-18 teams,“ Nicolai had told TOI after the BRICS Cup in October.
 
 Meanwhile, the AIFF is understood to have asked former India captain and director of scouting Abhishek Yadav to negotiate Nicolai's exit. Ironically, it was Nicolai who wanted Abhishek as a bridge between him and the AIFF when preparations were being hampered due to insufficient communication between him and the federation.
 
 
