GAYA: In order to enforce administrative and financial discipline in  , its vice-chancellor   on Thursday made it clear that he would give a free hand to the financial adviser (FA) and the registrar in financial and administrative matters, respectively.
 
  Ahsan, who joined as vice-chancellor at the university’s Patna branch office on Wednesday, interacted with the PG heads of the departments and university officials at the university headquarters on Thursday. Ahsan, who joined as VC on March 29, retired two days later, on March 31 as professor of Economics from  , Patna. However, his tenure as MU VC will end on March 28, 2020.
  
  Sources said the VC told the department heads that the FA will have the major say in financial matters. He also emphasized the role of registrar as administrative head of the university. Ahsan’s predecessor   had been at loggerheads with FA R B Das and the   was flooded with complaints about financial irregularities/improprieties. University watchers believe that Ahsan would avoid confrontation with the FA.
  
  The new VC, sources said, favours modernization in the examination system and registration section, besides reducing paper work. No less than three of Ahsan’s predecessors have been to jail on manipulation charges.
  
  Insiders believe Ahsan may take an initiative for amalgamating the university accounts. As of now, vocational education funds are separately maintained and this separation of accounts has caused complications and overlapping. Government auditors, too, have objected to the prevalent financial duality.
  
  While seeking cooperation from different sections of stakeholders, Ahsan has promised the right mix of firmness and flexibility. Besides enforcing financial and administrative discipline, the VC will have to take effective steps to check plagiarism and prevent recycling of PhD dissertations for award of degree on the basis of slightly modified old works. The university has so far not complied with the UGC guidelines pertaining to uploading the PhD dissertations to its website, a major step towards prevention of degree scam.
