Nagpur: Students of colleges affiliated to the Nagpur University (NU) need to wait longer for paying exam fee online as the varsity is rolling out the service only for college administration and post graduate teaching departments. 

 On December 6, TOI had reported about the NU management council approving the proposal to tie up with HDFC and Yes Bank in November. After that, it was widely being perceived that all students would benefit from the move. The NU had planned to start the service by December end but it got delayed as modalities are still being worked out. 
 
 Now, it has emerged that the online payment gateway would be made available only to postgraduate students of NU, external students and college authorities to pay the fee collected from students. 
 
 Currently, the college clerks have to personally visit the accounts and finance office on Amravati Road to submit exam fees collected from students over the counter. Generally, colleges see long queues just before the last date for paying exam fee. Many students had demanded that since NU had started accepting forms online, the exam fee too could be paid through netbanking. 
 
 Vice Chancellor SP Kane clarified that online payments would be accepted only for services which students can even otherwise avail independently. “Students can pay for issuance of duplicate marklist, eligibility certificate etc but not exam fee. The online gateway would be for colleges to pay the collected fee.”
 
 He added that YES Bank has already finalized the modalities and will be starting its service soon.
 
 Controller of Examinations Neeraj Khaty said, “A meeting of exam section, NU finance and accounts officer and the concerned software company would be held next week. The basic skeleton is ready. In the first stage, card payments would be introduced at fee counters. In the second stage, online gateway is planned to collect fee for migration certificate, duplicate marklist, eligibility certificate.”
 
 Khaty added, “Data has to be uploaded and linked with the bank’s portal. Agreement is done with the banks.” 
 
 He said the service can’t be extended to exam fee right away as the data size is huge. “The fee structures for BA and BCom courses are different. If everything is started at the outset, things may go haywire.”
 
 NU finance and accounts officer Raju Hiwase said, “Transcations and service charges would be discussed with the banks. We would start the service free of cost for NU and colleges. We are also working out possibilities of failed transactions on last date.”
 
 
