Vishal, president of the   ( ), along with a few other members from the council on Friday met Chief Minister (CM) Edappadi K. Palaniswami and gave a representation to address the concerns of Tamil film industry, which include internet piracy, unauthorised telecast of Tamil films on private television channels, ticket price hike and changes required in the GST. After the meeting,   says that he is confident of a positive outcome. He says, “We met the CM and he has promised that proper action will be taken to control the issues which disturb the industry. For now, things are looking positive. We have decided to wait till the end of this month.”

 Earlier, TFPC had decided to call for a total shutdown of  , thus putting a halt to all the production and post-production activities from May 30. This was to urge the state and central government to take immediate steps to eradicate piracy and effect a hike in ticket rates. The decision, however, evoked a mixed response from exhibitors and distributors. 
 
  “If we feel that the actions taken are not adequate, then the strike will go on as per the plan, from May 30. In fact, we are giving emphasis to the shut down as we believe it is the only way to express our dissatisfaction. Piracy, because of which the entire industry is affected, is not the only problem we face today. I hope we all come together to carry out things for the betterment of the industry,” says Vishal.
 
 Producer and exhibitor Abirami Ramanathan is hoping that there would be an appropriate resolution from the government’s side. He says, “We have requested the government to address all our concerns. The CM has immediately handed over our petition to the concerned officers and has assured of implementing necessary actions. We will think about the strike if there is a failure in duty from the government. For now, I don’t think it is appropriate to even talk about the strike.”
 
 
 Distributor Tirupur Subramanian, who was among the first to oppose the call for shutdown, asserts that such a decision wouldn’t yield any results to the industry. He explains, “There are about one lakh people who depend on the film industry, among which around 25,000 belong to the theatre business. A shutdown will affect the entire filmdom. Moreover, I don’t think there is any need to increase the ticket rates. Instead, let the actors cut down their remuneration. After a long time, a film has been running to packed house. Considering the popularity among audiences,   2 is likely to complete 100 days of run in my theatres. By any chance if the TFPC is going forward with their decision to shutdown, 169 theatres, including the ones in Chennai city, Coimbatore, Nilgiris, Erode and Tirupur, will continue to function. The sudden enthusiasm of the TFPC is nothing, but a show-off for reasons best known to them.”
 
 Rakesh of Vettri Theatres, which falls under the Chengalpattu area, says that he would stand by the decision of the exhibitors’ association whatsoever. “I personally feel that strike wouldn’t bring any benefit to the industry. A few months ago, there was an initiation from the government with respect to data collection of theatre expenses. But there was no progress further. I believe every association joining hands, discussing the issues and coming to an amicable solution will sort out the varied issues we face.”
 
 
 
