KOCHI: After alleged irregularities in the processing of applications for road digging by   and long delay in clearing their applications leading to revenue loss for the civic body,   has decided to act.

 Works standing committee will go through all the applications pending for consideration of the local body and prepare a report on how to process the applications so as to churn out maximum revenue for the corporation.
 
 TOI had carried a series of report exposing the anomalies in processing applications of telecom companies for cutting roads for laying optical fibre cables as well as loss of revenue to the corporation due to negligent and indifferent attitude by local body authorities.
 
 Around 17 applications of   are pending before the local body for more than a year. The applications by   are also pending for months.
 
 On Monday , works standing committee chairman P M Harris wanted that all the applications should be processed according to their merit. “Unnecessary delay should be avoided. There are allegations that the corporation authorities are delaying the processing of applications for bargaining with telecom firms and facilitating corruption. In the past one year, corporation should have lost at least Rs 50 crore just because of delaying the applications inordinately ,“ Harris said.
 
 At the same time, mayor   said that the issue is a complicated one.“Bharti Airtel had dug up roads illegally during many occasions also. We had lodged a petition with Kochi police against the illegal digging. As the city police failed to act, we took it up to the DGP also,“ Soumini said. “There was vigilance case regarding road cutting by Reliance,“ she said.Mayor also said that telecom companies' application lacked clarity . “They would request for cutting roads for laying underground cables. Then, they would scrap the proposal to lay the underground cables and come up with requests to give nod for drawing overhead cables,“ she said.
 
 The committee will look in to the merits of the applications and prepare a detailed report on streamlining the processing of applications, fix road restoration charges and floor rent for laying cables through corporation's roads.
 
 Meanwhile, corporation authorities are planning to bring in new bylaw to streamline the processing of applications by telecom firms for laying cables by digging roads.There would be clauses in the bylaw to criminalize illegal cable laying. The corporation authorities have plans to send notices to all telecom majors asking them to file affidavit on the details of cables laid by them in the city . As such issues will be explored by works standing committee.
 
