KOLKATA : Eighty Six, the canteen behind   that was gutted in a fire in the   of Monday, will be ready for operations in record 48 hours since   began on Tuesday evening.

 “We will ensure that the canteen is ready by Thursday evening. All agencies, including the public works department, is working overtime to meet the deadline. By the time UK foreign affairs minister Boris Johnson visits the university on Thursday evening, Eighty Six will be in ship-shape condition,” said consulting engineer   Ghosh.
 
 The fire, sparked by an electrical short circuit, gutted the interiors and damaged a portion of the corrugated metal roof. The ravaged canteen with broken windows, twisted steel roof and soot all over stuck out like a sore thumb on the campus that has had a major makeover for the ongoing bicentenary celebrations. With the VVIP visits lined up, including President Pranab Mukherjee and former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh on Friday, the university authorities were keen to present a pretty picture of the prestigious institution.
 
 Five separate teams worked on the roof, false ceiling, electrical lines, wall plaster, wall tiles and aluminium window round-the-clock to meet the challenging deadline. “PWD is getting the entire electrical wiring changed. The rest of the work has been handed to contractors. Around 20-25 people are engaged in the restoration. Work will continue through Wednesday night to complete the project by Thursday morning-afternoon,” said Ghosh. 
 
 A PWD official said the electrical line was being modernized with MCB switches to prevent a short circuit from recurring. However, no additional fire detection and suppression measure is being taken up, which will leave the canteen as vulnerable as before. “There will be fire extinguishers in the canteen for use if there is a fire while it is functioning. But if the fire occurs at night when it is shut, there will be no alert,” a source said. 
 
 It is also not clear when food service will resume as the contractor that operated the canteen has lost equipment, including ovens, in the fire. Students and faculty are hoping it happens soon as it offered a bigger spread than Promod da’s heritage joint behind it.
 
 Simanti Ghosal, the student who turned savior on Monday night by calling the fire brigade, is happy with the quick repairs, but hopes expediting the repairs does not lead to a hurried job.
 
 
