 reacts strongly to Abu Azmi’s ‘blame the dress’ for mass molestation at  ...

 Adding fuel to the horror that unleashed with the mass molestation in Bengaluru on New Year’s Eve are the spate of misogynistic statements spewed by one politician after another led by Karnataka’s Home Minister, G. Parameshwara, who blamed ‘Western culture’ and dismissed it as ‘these things happen’. He was seconded by politician  , who justified it further with inappropriate statements like: “If there’s petrol and there’s a fire nearby it will catch fire. If there’s sugar around, then it’s bound to attract ants. Many people might get angry at me for saying this, but this is the truth.” Angry is just an understatement Mr Azmi. Minutes after the statement was made, there was outrage on social media opposing his views, some even branding the politicians as ‘anti-women’. 
 BT speaks to a host of opinion-makers who react vociferously:
 
 
 I am not surprised by the statement made by Mr Azmi. What else can one expect from him? As a matter of fact, I don’t only condemn his statement but condemn the very mindset that makes him give out such statements. Having said that, there are two other things that come to my attention — one, the biggest culprit and most condemnable person is the Home Minister of the said state whose responsibility it is to look into law and order. He is justifying the incident instead of correcting it. The other is extremists have the same kind of mindset irrespective of the community they belong to. They are all regressive, misogynistic, and will always be anti-women. Nothing else can explain Rahul Ishwar and Pandit Ajay Gautam defending Azmi.
 
 It is doubly dangerous when misogynist remarks come from men who are supposed to be the upholders of the constitution. Women’s groups should shame them by holding dharnas outside their homes and making them the subject of ridicule. Blaming the victim rather than the perpetrator is as heinous as the crime itself.
 
 That’s just incredibly childish. It’s like saying, ‘You made me do it.’ An alcoholic always blames someone else for his drinking bouts. This is not about ‘men’; this is about a kind of man who feels that women should not be seen or heard. So, if a man can’t help himself, he is the one that needs to stay at home. Having said that, women also have a responsibility towards themselves. 
 
 When politicians say things callously, they are sanctioning violence against women. These people cannot be allowed to remain in public office. They are not fit to govern or protect women. Women, who make up for half the electorate, need to get together and make sure we only vote for the candidate that has our security and equality on their agenda. If the Home Minister of the state thinks ‘this happens’, then he should resign as he isn’t fit for the job.
 
 I have appealed to the Prime Minister about the incident in Bengaluru. Such incidents didn’t happen when we were young. Men didn’t behave in this manner. 
 
 I don’t understand why the incident is not being looked upon as a failure of law and order. It is absurd that people in power are talking like this and saying that the women are to be blamed. We allow sexism in our day-to-day lives and only address it when a major incident happens. When women stand up for their rights, men feel challenged and threatened. It is a misogynistic viewpoint and part of a larger problem, where the idea of women making their own choices is not going down well with men. They are reacting like this as they seem to believe that their manhood is being challenge. They need to be educated on rights.
 
  I am outraged at the lack of outrage of the political class to such remarks. These are the worst of times! 
 
  On one side, I just can’t get enough congratulatory messages for what we dealt with in 'Pink' and on the other side, I hear about such a tragic incident. Is this some kind of a psychological epidemic among men? I refuse to believe that people in their senses can do such a thing. And to top it we have some bizarre comments by these so called human beings. I have racked my brain enough trying to understand what kind of power trip is this? It has to be a psychological imbalance which has been imbibed into these men during childhood.
 
 The onus is with the government, police and judiciary to ensure safety of women. And misinformed comments by politicians do not change this fact. 
 
 It’s shameful what happened and I am ashamed of it. I stand by what I said 'Pink'. ‘No’ is a statement.
 
 I’m shocked an incident of such magnitude has happened in Bengaluru, which is considered a progressive city. Molestation and rape need to be addressed at grass-root level. Boys and girls should mingle with each other from an early age. The system of compartmentalising them is clearly not helping. Teach them how to act and react correctly to each other from the time they’re young. Educating boys and making them understand and respect the opposite sex for who they are, should be a primary objective.
 
 They all need to be shown the movie 'Pink' 10 times over. The harshest possible punishment should be meted out to those who cross the line, and to those who think that a woman’s clothes attract illicit attention. It’s a problem at numerous levels. School-level training for boys is a must because they have to learn how to behave. And men have to accept the fact that a woman is an equal. It reminds me of a case in Australia involving an Indian man who was stalking a local lady. His attorney apparently proved that it’s the Indian mentality to blame because they’re taught to chase a woman incessantly till she relents. He was supposedly acquitted. That’s shameful and that needs to change.
 
 It’s a democratic country. In a family, people differ in thoughts and expressions. So, men and women will not dress the same way. A man’s gaze should not spell disrespect. They should watch their behaviour and not blame women. 'Neeyat sahi honi chahiye, aur pardah har mard ki aankhon mein hona chahiye.'
 
 India’s daughters are in danger because of how it has raised its sons. It starts at a basic level. A generation has grown up listening to songs with an underlying idea of stalking which have left a lasting impact. The repercussions are evident. We keep saying that cinema and reality are different, but the truth is that somewhere they are inter-related. I am not blaming cinema entirely for the way a generation thinks, but these acts of stalking are so deeply ingrained in our system. It will take time for another generation to understand films like 'Pink'. The problem is also with law enforcement. Reporting these incidents to the cops is even more cumbersome and hostile. A change in the mindset of the Indian man is a must. 
 
 It is outrageous that the victim’s choice of clothing should have anything to do with sexual assault or molestation. Regressive statements blaming the victims only give the statement makers attention. Just stop highlighting them. What we need is the strictest punishment to the perpetrators of this horror. If law and order cannot be maintained in crowded places despite the deployment of law enforcement agencies, how is anybody going to feel safe in any dress?
 
 I feel sorry for the country where such people are leaders. I hope more youngsters join hands and unsettle such mindsets. On a positive note, I also believe that a handful of such lame minds cannot affect this strong nation. 
 
 
 
 
 
