AHMEDABAD: In a shocking  , a man and his   of Dungarpur, Rajasthan. Police said Pavan Ravat, 21, who is also from Rajasthan, suspected Anil of teasing his wife Priyanka, 20, in his absence. To take revenge, Pavan first sodomized Anil twice while his wife smashed Anil’s head with a brick and gave her husband a   to be inserted into Anil’s rectum.

  Anil died on the spot. “Later, Pavan and Priyanka put Anil’s body in a tractor and dumped it near Vatva canal,” ACP crime branch Rajdeepsinh Zala said.
 
 The naked body of Anil was found on Tuesday. “We were able to solve the mystery behind the gruesome   within hours,” Zala said.
 
 The crime branch officials said they arrested both Pavan and his wife after getting a tip-off from Jashodanagar. The crime branch handed them over to the local police for further investigation.
 
 Sources in the police said both Anil and Pavan had come to Gujarat to earn their living. Anil lived alone while Pavan stayed with his wife on Narol-Naroda Highway.
 
 Anil used to work as a mason at construction sites, while Pavan drove a tractor to earn a living.
 
 “According to Pavan, Anil visited his house in his absence and teased his wife against her wishes. On May 8, Pavan saw Anil at his house. He was angry and beat his wife,” Zala said.
 
 The same night Pavan went to Anil’s house and told him that his wife, Priyanka, had been injured and asked Anil to accompany them to a doctor.
 
 Sources in the crime branch said the three persons left to find a doctor at about 8:30 pm the same night. 
 
 “However, at an isolated place near Navapura, Pavan stopped and removed Anil’s clothes by force,” a crime branch official said. 
 
 “Pavan then sodomized Anil twice. Priyanka, who was with them, picked up a brick lying nearby and smashed Anil’s head. When Anil was still alive she brought a marble strip and asked Pavan to insert it in Anil’s rectum,” the official said.
 
 Pavan then inserted the marble strip up Anil’s rectum. “Unable bear the pain, Anil died on the spot. Pavan and Priyanka then put Anil’s body in a tractor and dumped it near Vatva canal,” ACP Zala said.
 
