TALWANDI SABO (BATHINDA):   have dared the   government not to test the strength of the more than nine decade-old party by killing its activists. Pointing towards cases being registered against Akalis and killing of a couple of its activists ever since the Congress has formed the government in the state, SAD president Sukhbir Badal on Thursday said the Akali workers were not afraid of the Congress onslaught and would face any high-handedness.

 Addressing a rally in the Diwan Hall at Takht Damdama Sahib, Sukhbir said, “The Congress government should desist from testing the patience of our workers by slapping false cases. We will not just sit but resist such moves. The Congress always defamed Punjab and Punjabis by labelling us as drug addicts and claiming that 70% Punjabis are into drugs. I have checked with the police which said that under the drive only some persons had been arrested with 2-3kg of poppy husk. If such is the case then why the Congress defamed Punjab and Punjabis.”
 
 Sukhbir said the Congress leaders used to blame the previous SAD-BJP regime for lack of development. “Now, Amarinder went to Mumbai to meet industrialists and pleaded with them that Punjab was a highly-developed state and industrial houses must invest there. This claim has vindicated our claim of ensuring all-round development in the last 10 years,” said the Akali Dal chief.
 
 Addressing the Baisakhi conference, Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal said, “Akalis may have failed to repeat its performance but are not down. Though some mistakes might have been committed while working for the welfare of the people, SAD will bounce back soon and our victory in the Delhi byelection has shown that.”
 
 Elated over Sirsa’s win
 
 Elated over the victory of Manjinder Singh   in Rajouri Garden assembly byelection in Delhi, Sukhbir Badal said the victory of SAD-BJP candidate had shown that Akalis were here to stay. Sirsa’s victory had also shut the mouth of AAP in Delhi, he added. Sirsa preferred to fight the bypoll on BJP symbol despite being an Akali leader.
 
 Former CM skips conference
 
 Former chief minister and SAD patron Parkash Singh Badal was conspicuous by his absence at the Talwandi Sabo conference. Though Badal was in   and even went to homes of two Akali workers to condole the death of a family member of a worker and gave blessings after marriage in the family of another party worker, he preferred to give Talwandi Sabo event a miss.
 
