MALAPPURAM: With CPM formally announcing the LDF candidate for the upcoming Lok Sabha byelection in   constituency on Saturday, a clearer picture of the ensuing electoral battle here has emerged.

 It was after the district secretariat meeting of the ruling party, which began in the morning, that its state secretary   announced the candidature of M B Faisal.
 
 Faisal, a native of Vattamkulam, is currently a member of Malappuram district panchayat representing Changaramkulam division. He is also Malappuram district president of DYFI. 
 
 The NDA also announced its candidate on Friday night. District leader of BJP N Sreeprakash will be in the fray.
 
 IUML has already announced the UDF candidate – national general secretary of the party P K Kunhalikuty – to fight the elections in the constituency, which is a stronghold of the party. Kerala Congress (M), which has strained its relationship with UDF, has extended its support to Kunhalikkutty in the  . 
 
 CPM had considered many names including its senior leader T K Hamsa, who trounced KPA Majeed in Manjeri in 2004, to contest the byelection. However, after the hours-long discussions, the state leadership decided to field a young leader.
 
 Responding to media after the announcement of his candidature, Faisal said he was hopeful that the election result would be favourable to the left alliance ‘in the wake of serious threats faced by the secular and democratic fabric of the country’.
 
 In the 2014 Lok Sabha poll, E Ahamed of IUML had defeated CPM leader P K Sainaba for a record margin of more than 1.94 lakh votes, which is the highest majority in state. Faisal said the victory margin of the UDF candidate in previous election does not matter.
 
 Sree Prakasah had contested in the constituency on BJP ticket in previous LS election also and he managed to secure 64,705 votes. He had also contested in Manjeri constituency in last assembly election. 
 
 It is learnt that the   (SDPI) and Welfare Party of India (WPI) would also announce their   for the bypoll soon. In the previous election, SDPI candidate Nasarudheen Elamaram, managed to secure 47,853 votes and the candidate of WPI, P Ismail secured 29,216 votes.
 
 
