NEW DELHI: The newly designed kit for the Indian men’s and women’s cricket teams has been unveiled a few days ahead of Virat Kohli’s first assignment as full-time captain of the ODI and Twenty20 international series, with the   confirming the news on Thursday. 

 While stating that the new kit was being launched with the motto reflecting ‘Self belief’, the BCCI website revealed that the new India ODI jersey is available at select Nike retail stores from today. 
 
 
  
  
 
 The revamped jersey comes with a set of unique features after taking feedback from various cricketers. One of the highlights in the new kit includes '4D Quickness' - a feature that provides multi-directional and multi-dimensional stretch for quickness, along with tuned breathability that helps with temperature regulation to keep athletes cool in trying conditions. It also boasts of a new feature called, 'Zero distractions' which aids in minimizing distractions and maximizing performance on the field.
 
 Speaking on the new India jerseys, Kohli said: “We have always been told to treat life and sport differently, which is very wrong. On the field, we are encouraged to take risks but then in life you need to be safe! It’s a huge gap that needs to be bridged. Cricket has taught me everything I know about life. I truly believe that sport helps shape your character as an individual; all you need is to believe in yourself. The self-belief that I learnt on the field makes me believe that I can accomplish anything on or off the field.”
 
 Added Dhoni: "The game has been evolving over the years and the need to have kits that are designed to suit the modern game has always been the priority for the team management and Nike. Features like the 4D quickness and Zero distractions will definitely help the team on the field." 
 
 Harmanpreet Kaur, captain of the women’s team, reflected on the times when she struggled as a young girl trying to make a name in a men-dominated sport. “I started playing cricket with the boys and I loved the sport from the first time I held a bat. People didn’t want me to play cricket, they said you don’t have a future in it. Surrendering under pressure I attended a hockey camp but that just reinstated my love for cricket. I believed I could play for the Indian team one day; but first I needed to play in a women’s team to get noticed. The biggest struggle was to get 11 girls on the field to make a team; I remember even coaching the girls at every practice session.”
 
 Nike has been the official supplier of Indian cricket team kits since January 1, 2006 after it outbid Reebok and Adidas with a $43 million dollar deal. That initial five-year contract was extended in 2009 until the 2011 World Cup, which India won, and there has been no looking back for the Nike or the BCCI. The previous kit was unveiled before the 2015 World Cup. 
 
 India, under Kohli now that Dhoni has resigned from the captaincy, play three ODIs and three T20Is against Eoin Morgan’s   team. The ODIs will be played in Pune (January 15), Cuttack (January 19) and Kolkata (January 22). The T20Is will be held in Kanpur (January 26), Nagpur (January 29) and Bangalore (February 1). 
 
 
