If there is one word that could describe the atmosphere inside   on Sunday, it would surely be “electrifying”. As Team Hyderabad took on the Suresh Raina-led Team Gujarat in what can be described as an absolute thriller, fireworks of 6s and 4s from both the teams kept the crowd on their feet for most of the match. Though comparatively a new entrant to the league, Team Gujarat has already showed their prowess this season by getting the better of two times champion  , and when Hyderabad’s   went early chasing a score of 136, the crowd fret. But not for long as skipper David Warner and Moises Henriques quickly took things into their hands and guided the home team to victory quite comfortably. Both Warner and Henriques completed their half centuries — two innings that had all the shots in the cricketing book. And when Warner swung his bat to victory with a six, the stadium erupted with thundering cheers. 

 
 
 If there was one man who won many hearts on Sunday, it was leggie Rashid Khan. Khan, who donned the purple cap being the highest wicket taker, was adjudged the Man of the Match. The Afghan youngster gave the home crowd a lot to cheer with his ‘three-fer’ and found a mention in former Indian player Ravi Shastri’s tweet. “Rashid Khan you beauty. In the land of the Hyderabadi biryani the Chicken Afghani making a serious statement,” he tweeted. As for Rashid, who has already etched his name as one of the leg spinners to watch out for this season, said, “I will try my best to keep it up.”
 
 
 
 Tollywood, of course, turned up to show support for the home team. Among those spotted, screaming, bouncing and waving the flags, were Sai Dharam Tej, Allu Sirish, the father-son duo Sai Kumar and Aadi among others. But the adorable of the lot were the celeb kids who sat and cheered for the home team together — Mahesh Babu’s son Gautham Ghattamaneni was seen with cricketer VVS Laxman’s children Sarvajit and Achinthya Laxman. 
 
 
 It was a rollercoaster ride of emotions for the Orange Army. While the home fans came prepped with their faces and clothes drenched in the SRH’s colours weaving the orange eagle on their flags, the GL fans too made sure their team is well represented in the stands. Though the home fans had the last laugh, but the match was nothing short of thriller that kept the fans of both the teams at the edge of their seats throughout. 
 
 
