CHENNAI: The state higher education department has directed vicechancellors of state universities to avoid recruiting or taking crucial policy decisions during the last three months of hisher tenure.

 The department sent a letter stating as much to all universities last month. The animal husbandry department has reportedly sent similar instructions to the VC of   Veterinary and Animal Sciences   (Tanuvas).
 
 It is based on a recommendation from the principal secretary to the governor-chancellor, based on several representations made by teachers' associations pertaining to corruption in recruitments.
 
 The department had earlier issued a Government Order (GO) on April 14 that barred universities from recruitmenting until the redeployment of excess staff from   is completed.
 
 A senior official said the department took the decision to avoid charges of corruption that surround recruitments to teaching and nonteaching posts that are advertised during the fag end of the career of a vice-chancellor.
 
 Professors across the state say they have to pay close to `20 lakh for the post of assistant professor. They have welcomed the order.   (AUT) vice-president N Pasupathy alleged that Salem-based   violated the directive by conducting interviews for a postgraduate extension centre at a university in Dharmapuri on May 24. The term of the VC is due to end on June 15. The ratification to conduct recruitments has been placed for review in Thursday's syndicate meeting.
 
 A senior official from Periyar University clarified that the higher education department treated this as a special case and gave them permission based on a representation.
 
 “The file was circulated to the syndicate,“ the official said.
 
 The higher education department took into consideration the fact that Dharmapuri is a comparatively backward district and that the advertisments were floated a year ago, sources said.
 
 However, no such relaxation will be provided for other universities, a senior official said.
 
