PUNE: The irrigation department will not release additional water to   nor given in to the demand for some water cuts in the city for now. Members from various gram panchayats had approached the irrigation authorities for extra water.

 This year, Indapur MLA Dattatraya Bharne requested for some water cuts in the city so that additional quantity can be given to the rural areas. However, the plea was not accepted in the recently concluded Khadakwasla canal committee meeting.
 
 Water will be released for rural areas on schedule, irrigation authorities said. “We will release 3.51 TMC water from April 20 to May 5, so that water reaches Indapur and Daund. The allocation has been made in our planning up to July 15. We cannot give additional water to the rural areas in the present schedule. The storage levels are better this year than last year,’’ irrigation officials said. 
 
 They have sought police protection and demanded load-shedding in the areas along the canal when water is released so that it is not pumped from the canal. “‘If there are no illegal activity, then the water will reach all the villages and rural areas will get enough for irrigation,’’ the official added.
 
 Last year, the release of 1 TMC water from Khadakwasla reservoir for Indapur and Daund had created a furore in the city’s political circles. Several politicians objected to guardian minister Girish Bapat’s decision to release the water when the city was facing cuts.
 
 At the canal committee meeting on Monday, Bapat had said water will be supplied twice a day since there is enough stock in the four dams that give water to the city.
 
 Bharne told TOI, with the temperatures rising and the meteorological department not giving any specific indications about the monsoon being on time in June, a reasonable view had to be taken and water had to be conserved this month, rather than go into a huddle in a meeting next month when the city and the rural parts face acute shortage.
 
 At present, four villages in Pune district face water shortage affecting a population of 15,921 with nine tankers in operation. District revenue officials stated that more tankers will be in operation as requirement will increase.
 
 In Pune division, which covers Pune, Satara, Sangli, Kolhapur and Solapur, 132 tankers supply water to 128 villages having a population of nearly three lakh.
 
