If you catch a glimpse of  , more often than not, you will catch him mid-stride, rushing from one task to the next. But come what may, he will have a smile and a quick handshake for you. While many know him as a popular face on Goa’s business circuit, not many realize that Kunkolienkar is the president of Manufacturers’ Association for Information Technology (MAIT), the first Goan to hold that position at the national level. His contribution to the industry has also seen him play a key role in the Union budget consultation process for three successive years since 2015.
 
  A journey past Verna Industrial estate and one is bound to notice the   board. Aside from being the face of the company in Goa, Kunkolienkar also played a major role in the estate itself, being its founding president in 1996.
  
  From taxation to civil aviation and from information technology to education, Kunkolienkar has diverse exposure and interests. And yet, beneath this corporate workhorse ethic, is a man prone to mischief. Growing up in the far flung village of   in Quepem, Kunkolienkar spent his time running from one mischief to the next. His early childhood was spent in the lap of the village ethos, which he cherishes till today.
  
  “Our village was full of close bonds and this bond is still alive today,” Kunkolienkar says. “We were for each other. I learnt that concept in my early childhood and this has laid the foundation for my thought process of life. My roots are in Quepem and I am proud of my roots and maybe after 10 years or so, I wouldn’t mind spending more time in my village. There are emotions, there is respect, there is affection, there’s a bond.”
  
  An incident in his early childhood, which the 48-year-old still remembers vividly, exemplifies the selflessness that Kunkolienkar seeks to emulate.
  
  As a young boy in Class III, an idyllic swim in the local dam turned deadly and Kunkolienkar found himself struggling to keep afloat. An alert local sounded the alarm and his cousin,  , soon came to his rescue.
  
  “It was on May 20 in 1978. I don’t know why I remember. One Gowda community lady was crossing and yelled out and my cousin came to save me. We used to tease that lady actually,”   says.
  
  Colleagues in the industry and bureaucrats who interact with Kunkoliekar will vouch for his photographic memory and workaholic discipline. Ask him about the secret behind his ability to juggle multiple responsibilities successfully, and pat comes the answer.
  
  “Where work is pleasure, life is joy. Where work is duty, life is slavery. There is nothing called work-life balance. We are simple human beings. The only way we can create time is by being very fast, and by speaking clearly. Most humans are gifted with good memory but most of the people forget to tell their mind to save,” he says.
  
  His wife Roopa, an architect by profession, calls him a perfectionist. “He is such a perfectionist, his to-do list is cleared and other people are far behind his expectations. And that is why he loses his temper,” she says, to which he adds, “She just has to smile and I cool down.”
  
  The couple meeting is a tale of serendipity. As the general manager at D-Link India’s plant at Verna, Kunkolienkar approached a reputed architectural firm where Rupa was working as a senior architect. As the office was built, the foundation for their relationship was also established and the couple tied the knot in 1999.
  
  Despite his hectic commitments, Kunkoliekar says that his family comes first. “Whenever they ask, they got the time. I will give them my company, because at the end of the day, family is first,” he says.
  
  Today, Konkolienkar provides his expertise to the state as a member of the Goa investment promotion and facilitation board, higher education council, and information technology advisory committee. He is the vice-president of   school and the chairman of the governing council of   college of Law. Been there, done that, he could say.
