PUNE: The success of the 59-bedded Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU) at Sassoon General Hospital has spurred Pune-based Mukul Madhav Foundation to replicate a similar project in Kamla Nehru Hospital, Dr Dalvi Hospital, Sonawane Maternity Home and Bharat Ratna   Hospital run by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC).

 “The four hospitals will have NICUs through our tie-up with PMC,” Ritu Chhabria, managing trustee of the foundation, told TOI.
 
 Finolex Industries and the foundation, which is its corporate social responsibility (CSR) partner, will soon sign a memorandum of understanding with the PMC for an overhaul of neonatal care.
 
 “The joint venture will provide us with the required equipment for neonates, including a 12-bed, level-II NICU, at each hospital. There will be a centralized portal connecting the four hospitals. We will train nurses and a top neonatologist will be appointed. The civic body will get our technology for the project,” Chhabria said, adding that infrastructural changes and manpower in these hospitals will be addressed by the civic body.
 
 The foundation had set up level-III NICUs at KEM and the Sassoon General hospitals. They have facilities like total parenteral nutrition, human milk bank, ROP screening and treatment. Mothers also get resting and shower rooms.
 
 “Women come to these hospitals from all over the state. Rest and shower rooms will be constructed at the four chosen hospitals,” Chhabria added.
 
 The nurses of all four chosen hospitals will be trained at Sassoon general hospital, KEM and Bharti Vidyapeeth Deemed University Medical College.
 
 The foundation will equip 10 ambulances of the 108 state emergency medical service (BVG ambulances) with neonatal consoles.
 
 “Finolex Industries will donate the neonatal consoles for the ambulances, each console costing between Rs 5 to Rs 8 lakh. The console itself will include life-saving devices and the ambulances will be upgraded to ensure they have enough battery charge for their daily rounds,” Chhabria said.
 
 “The ambulances are owned and existing with BVG (108) and Hanumant Gaikwad and D Shelke have been kind to accept this request to broaden their ambulance services. We will add neonate consoles to provide level II assistance to babies within Pune and reach out to other towns and rural areas to pick up critical cases. Also, the portal will connect not only these four hospitals which will have level II care, but connect to level III units at KEM/ Sassoon and with permission of Pradeep Suryavanshi at Bharti Vidyapeeth to provide for critical level III cases,” she said.
 
 Chhabria said Ayush doctors on these ambulances will receive a comprehensive training to handle babies at Sassoon and KEM. Dean Ajay Chandanwale at Sassoon and Umesh Vaidya will help coordinate and see this through. “Pune hospitals, whether private, civil or government, will work together to fulfil the dream to help assist babies, their parents with better services. Together, these institutions and others will slowly join this mission to reduce the mortality rate,” she added.
 
 The ambulances will be parked in different locations that can be easily accessed, and yet remain connected during emergencies.
 
 Meanwhile, the Royal Society of Paediatrics in the United Kingdom recently contacted the Foundation for its work in helping children with cerebral palsy.
 
 “They wanted to assist us in this domain. Their experts will come to Pune next month and will visit Satara, Ratnagiri and Chiplun. They will interact with the parents of children with cerebral palsy and help the community understand the disorder,” Chhabria said.
 
