I remember my father painting the eyes of goddess Durga while narrating stories of her bravery," says Kolkata-based sculptor  , while pausing to dab colour on the idol of goddess Saraswati that he has made. His white kurta and dhoti splattered with clay and colours make it quite evident that he has no time to change into fresh clothes as Durga puja, the biggest extravaganza for Bengalis, is hardly 10 days away.

 Kishori Mohan Pal brings back the memories of the lanky and old Shashi Pal, the idol-maker, in Satyajit Ray’s novel ‘Joy Baba Felunath’, who worked tirelessly through the night ahead of the festival. Only the milieu has changed.
 
 Kishori Pal’s annual visit to   for the past 36 years has been the harbinger of the spirit of Durga puja, the biggest festival of the Bengali community. "Back in 1982, I came here with a friend for work. He helped me establish contacts and my idol-making business took off," says the 56-year-old from Diamond Harbour, near Kolkata. Every July he comes down to the city with his three sons and they remain here for at least four months. For the   who spend their puja away from home, the festivity is in moulding and breathing life into clay. "We go pandal hopping to places like Besant
 
 Nagar and Meenambakkam. Those four days we eat, relax and enjoy. We miss home, but cannot afford to be sad as this is our sole means of livelihood," says Pal at his workspace in Thakar Bapa Vidyalaya in T Nagar.
 
 The family today makes nearly 30 idol sets per season. Orders pour in from Coimbatore, Puducherry and Neyveli. Pal gives credit for the finesse of his idols to the good quality clay, brought all the way from Bengal. "We use the ‘Ganga maati’ (mud from river Ganga) as it has the best texture," adds Pal.
 
 As part of an important ritual, soil from the lanes inhabited by sex workers or ‘nishiddho pallis’(forbidden territories) is added to the mix of clay. "One cannot start making idols without it. We still follow the tradition as it is written in the scriptures," asserts Pal. While there are many theories, the ritual could also be seen as a step towards inclusivity and time to celebrate the divine and the profane — everything that makes us human.
 
 
