THANE: The   and   seem unlikely to go for a blanket   for the   civic   and are bound to be involved in a friendly tussle in certain   where an amiable seat sharing formula cannot be achieved.

 Senior leaders from both parties who met on Tuesday evening in Thane said they are likely to indulge in a friendly tussle in certain wards of Kalwa and Mumbra while they will fight jointly in other parts of the city including Thane and Diva. 
 
 Both the parties that had announced an alliance for the Thane polls and were discussing an agreeable seat sharing formula till last week, but ended up fielding a candidate each in around 24 of the 131 seats.
 
 This reportedly led to souring of relations between the two parties. Following the overlapping of candidates noticed in around 16 wards of the total 33, the parties suddenly backtracked with the NCP openly declaring to fight the polls solo last Friday, which was the first day of filing nominations. 
 
 However, the Thane unit of the Congress that saw a notable number of corporators switching over to other parties till last week decided to take the initiative and stich up the alliance with the NCP that holds considerable clout in the TMC after the Shiv Sena. A request was made to senior leaders in Mumbai overseeing the developments here following which an understanding was arrived in between the two sparring parties.
 
 On Tuesday, leaders from both parties said they would continue with their alliance, but not in totality and would engage in a friendly contest on some seats.
 
 “We will fight the elections together, but in some seats, we will contest separately. Talks are on and we will be able to come to a consensus by Wednesday on which seats to fight solo and where to fight jointly,” said senior Congress leader Narayan Rane while talking to TOI. NCP MLA Jitendra Awhad also claimed there was no squabbling between the parties and a friendly pact was being forged by the parties to keep the saffron parties out of power in the present elections.
 
 It is pertinent to note that the allies have seen a series of flip-flops in the past with the most prominent one being during the election of the mayor during the previous term. The Congress reportedly at the behest of the Shiv Sena had withdrawn support to the NCP thus paving a clear path for the saffron party to come to power.
 
 We will fight the elections together, but in some seats, we will contest separately. Talks are on and we will be able to come to a consensus by Wednesday on which seats to fight solo and where to fight jointly.
 
