Playing the character of Maina in   was not an easy task, but actress   says that the entire experience has been rewarding. BT caught up with the actress, who was in the city recently, to talk about her upcoming film, her future projects and her experiences in South films. Excerpts:

 The director of the film,  , noticed my work in Nagesh Kukunoor’s Dhanak. He asked me if I was interested in Begum Jaan. I thought ‘How can you say no to a   film?’. I had to audition for the role, after which I was signed on.
 
 Srijit sir made it easy for us, as we had a one-month workshop that prepared us for our roles. The workshop helped all of us get comfortable with each other since that bonding was required. We were trained in using and handling guns, and had language workshops. We even went to red light areas, to see how things work there. Since I had done Nagesh’s Lakshmi, in which I had essayed a similar role, I had already done my homework through that role.
 
 Shooting for the film made me realize how strong women are. Maina is from Gujarat, so she is very rustic and bold. Apart from that, we had to shoot in extreme conditions. Srijit sir had told us that it would be war. It was extremely hot and almost every girl had fainted on the set, but I realized how each one of us, including myself, was so determined to continue our work.
 
 Vidya took good care of all of us. She could make out if we were homesick, if we were hungry or needed anything and would care for us. There is this one scene in which she had to hit one of the girls. The moment the scene was over she would cry and apologize to her and we would say acting hi toh hai. She also showered us with gifts, since we were away from our home and pampered us.
 
 I’ve always said that I love working in the south because of the punctuality factor. The biggest of actors come on time and leave on time. The filming schedules and the planning is pucca. In Bollywood things are changing now. Begum Jaan had a pucca schedule, but we faced a hurdle when our set was washed away. However, this didn’t change anything. In the South, most film that are made get released. In Bollywood, there are films, some of which even I am a part of, haven’t seen the light of the day.
 
 
 The record is for three movie releasing on a single day! I knew there were three releases but on different dates. But certain things changed and I realized that two of my films in   and one in Telugu were releasing on the same day. I told my PR the same and he asked me, “Does anyone know about it?” Then I got in touch with the officials at the Limca Book of Records. It was such a great feeling.
 
 
 I have spoken about this in the past and would want people to beware. I was asked by someone in Hyderabad to do a show in the US. I took up the offer and later came to know that the invitation extended to me was fake! The people who were being sent with me had fake passports. Their bank statements and other records were all fake. I didn’t know that they had fake passports. We were sent to jail for this. I had checked the credentials of the person who had approached me. He has worked with other big stars from the film industry, so what else could I do. No chargesheet has been filed in the case till date. But now anything pertaining to my visa, I do on my own.
 
 
 I did Dabangg 2 only for  . MSG was a different experience altogether. I have never seen a person having such a following that the entire cricket stadium used to be full just to see Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh ji.
 
 There are two web series that am working on- Maid in India- for which I won an award. There is A.I.SHA- My Virtual Girlfriend and another web series called Powerplay, which is based on cricket.
 
 Sandra.Fernandes@timesgroup.com
 
 
