BUNDI:   on the second day of her three-day visit to Bundi under ‘Aap ka Jila,   on Friday carried out surprise visits at several   and expressed her ire over the   there.

 She, however, also appreciated the good initiatives and innovations. Raje while returning from surprise visits also took lunch at a Dalit’s home in Matunda village near Bundi city.
 
 Raje inspected the tribal hostel on Nainwa Road and expressed her displeasure over stray cows and cow dung lying scattered there. Hostel superintendent complained of encroachment to which CM asked officials to remove it.
 
 Raje also inspected Babu Jagjivan Ram college girls’ hostel. She asked district collector Shivangi Swarnkar for construction of boundary wall.
 
 CM Raje in Barupura Ojha village, made surprise visits at primary health centre and gram panchyat cooperative societies office and go down. She expressed deep displeasure on finding the ANM absent from the duty. The locals also complained her of ANM’s staying absent from the PHCs on most of the days in the month following which she directed the district official to inquire the matter taken action. On noticing the primary, secondary and senior secondary schools running separately, Raje here directed the district collector to merge these schools into one. The villagers in Bharupura Ojha complained Raje of non functional status of RO plant despite its having been installed long ago in the village. The villagers are forced to salted water from the hand pump due to non functional state of the RO plant.
 
 At Khatkat village on the way on her surprise visits, Raje stopped at Annpurna Bhandar and examined the register of beneficiaries. The locals here complained Raje that the names of prosperous people, having good homes and strong sources of livelihood being in the list of BPL families. She also checked the list of commodities being sold at fair prized parlor and took a serious note on the complaint and delivered necessary directions to the district officials. Raje also asked to unlock the go down of Annpurna Bhandar and expressed dissatisfaction on the keep up of the same. Raje asked the parlor proprietor to update the rate list and to provide bills of the sold commodity. She also inspected Atal Seva Kendra and slammed the district officials for delaying in issuing land documents to villagers. She directed the district collector for timely issuance of these documents.
 
 Raje o also inspected the over bridge constructed in 2016 on Motipura – Pipliya route and expressed deep displeasure over quality of construction and immediately called the principle secretary of PWD Alok and delivered necessary instructions. She also asked to carry out maintenance work over Bundi – Lakheri and Nainwa road conditions.
 
 CM Raje also made a surprise visit at model government senior secondary school in Pipliya village and expressed her unhappiness over filthy conditions and inadequate number of toilets and mismanagement in the school. She instantly directed secretary in charge Naresh Pal Gangwar to ensure the sufficient facilities and to inspect the schools of the district verey carefully. She inspected the computer lab and classes in the school but was not happy on the conditions there.
 
 Raje also expressed her anger over the recently whitewashed and painted building of these government institutions and asked the villagers if they had been mended and painted ahead of her visit to the district.
 
 CM takes lunch at Dalit’s home
 
 While returning to Bundi, Raje unexpectedly took lunch at a Dalit’s home in Matunda village near Bundi city. She reached at Babulal Bairwa’s home where Babulal’s mother Sohanibai and wife Sanjana served her homely cooked food that included dal, kadi, chatni, and palak curry, salads and roti.
 
 “I would never be able to lose the taste of such a delicious food from my memories for years,” Raje said after the lunch and claimed the urban foods never have the delicious taste that the rural food in villages contains.
 
 State UDH minister Srichand Kripalani and food and supplies minister Babu Lal Verma were among those present with the district officials here.
 
 CM Raje, after the surprise visits, also paid condolence visit to the residence of late Shravanlal Bhatia, a former district BJP president who died a few months ago and consoled his wife and family members.
 
 
