KOLKATA: A month’s time given by the   to   to finish its preliminary inquiry into the Narada sting has come as a relief for the special investigation team that had been burning the midnight oil to meet the Calcutta high court’s 72-hour deadline.

 According to CBI, the agency needs to scan the video footage in full (including the unedited rush), match the voices with those of the people seen in the frames. For this, they need to do voice tests of all the accused. They will have to question Narada News boss Mathew Samuel as well to find out who gave the money and why.
 
 The investigators will also have to examine if the Trinamool ministers and MPs and the IPS officer in question took the wads of notes with a promise to favour someone. All these elements need to be established before the CBI reaches the conclusion that the public representatives in question are liable to be booked under sections 7 and 13(1D) of the Prevention of Corruption Act. During this time of preliminary inquiry, the agency can’t question the persons in question or take them in custody before they file an FIR.
 
 Investigators while examining the “doling out favour” angle have already questioned Samuel if anyone had actually done favours to the company. “They (CBI) have already asked me if any of the accused persons kept in touch with me, or if I had contacted anyone of them after the sting operation. But none contacted me after that and neither did I contact anyone,” said Samuel. While the officials have scanned almost the entire footage, they are trying to put in place the different pieces to find out if the public servants misused their office.
 
 The sting operation has a parallel with a similar operation conducted against former BJP president Bangaru Laxman. BJP leaders then distanced them from Laxman before he was convicted. But in this case, Trinamool chief   has thrown her weight behind the accused saying that these leaders took donation for party fund because the sting was conducted in March 2014, ahead of the Lok Sabha polls. Samuel was then editor Tehelka. 
 
 “I got the appointment letter on March 1, 2014 when Tehelka was trying to reorganize itself. KD Singh, main promoter of Tehelka, asked me to plan some big stories and we decided to pick up some politicians in  ,” Samuel said. After the sting operation was over, Samuel was asked to file it as soon as possible. “I was given a place at the Alchemist office at Nehru Place in New Delhi. I took 48 hours to come out with the story,” he said.
 
 Given K D Singh’s political background as Trinamool Rajya Sabha MP, investigators have to establish beyond doubt that the Trinamool leaders took money against some favours promised to the donor, and this was not an act of political vengeance or blackmailing, particularly when the video footage was kept on hold for nearly two years before it was aired on the eve of the 2016 Bengal assembly polls. 
 
 Meanwhile, CBI is also keeping a keen eye on the special leave petition to be filed by  . While Mitra had filed it on Monday, it could not be listed as it had certain “technical problems”. Sources said Mitra is likely to file the revised petition soon to pursue the legal battle.
 
