JODHPUR:   ( ) investigating the case of murder of Vasudev Israni, a businessman of Jodhpur, is also suspecting the incident as desperation of   to set his footing in Rajasthan.

 Beginning from Jodhpur with the help of Harendra Jat purportedly, he carried out four attacks so far in Jodhpur in past six months and that too with no fear of police at all.
 
 Israni’s murder is a burning example of his fearlessness wherein his henchmen carried out a warning shootout earlier and when Israni did not bow to his extortion calls, he was finally eliminated despite security provided to him by Jodhpur police.
 
 Though, the SOG has identified the attackers of Israni, even the agency did not find it to be an easy task to get to the these suspects, said to be Jat and Kali Rajput from Punjab, also a man of Bishnoi.
 
 ADG (SOG) Umesh Mishra has admitted that it would be a challenging task to arrest the accused, who have been running across three states including Punjab and Haryana.
 
 “This entire crime ring has its roots in Punjab and Haryana apart from Rajasthan and we have been working in the direction of bursting this ring in coordination with the police of these three states,” Mishra said. Jat, who has been absconding right from his identification in the previous incidents of shooting, had actively participated in Jai Narayan Vyas University politics and had quit after he was thrashed badly by the opponents.
 
 He then engaged himself in petty crimes and came into contact with Bishnoi in Punjab, where he had been hiding from Jodhpur police. Later on, he developed fascination with the fire arms and became a shooter.
 
 On the other hand, UDH minister   visited the bereaved family of Israni on Wednesday and assured them of every possible action to arrest the accused of his murder.
 
 Amid the surging protest against the police commissioner Ashok Rathore, Kriplani also held a meeting with him along with the BJP leaders in closed room.
 
 “Chief Minister is very concerned about this incident and attempts to disturb the peace of Jodhpur. I have come here to console the family and have also spoken to the police commissioner giving him necessary directions,” said Kriplani.
 
 
