MUMBAI: Troubles for   who have suffered crop losses due to unseasonal rain and hailstorms that hit parts of   are far from over. Large parts of Marathwada, and parts of Solapur and Ahmednagar received unseasonal rainfall and witnessed hailstorms on Tuesday and Wednesday. The districts have reported huge losses of standing rabi  , human life and livestocks. Since the rabi season has come to an end, most of the crop was either harvested and kept or was ready to be harvested.

 According to preliminary data, very few farmers from those areas had enrolled for the state government’s crop   scheme, making it difficult for them to be adequately compensated. Official said 10-12% farmers from those areas may be insured.
 
 This rabi season, of the 1.36 crore farmers, only 7 lakh farmers across the state enrolled under the prime minister’s crop insurance scheme under which they have to pay a 1.5% premium for the crop, and the rest is borne by the state and Centre. Last year, 36 lakh farmers had insured their crops. Good rain in 2016 had raised the hopes for a good rabi year for farmers, and they did not feel the need to insure their crops, said an agriculture department official.
 
 “Under the scheme, only 1.5% premium has to be paid by the farmer, but there was no interest in the scheme. In fact, under the scheme, post-harvest losses too are covered, which is more of what has happened in these areas, but unfortunately not many will be able to avail of the compensation,” said an official.
 
 Meanwhile, the state government has ordered a survey of affected areas and the exact extent of losses will be revealed then. Estimates show that crops like green gram, wheat, jowar, grapes and pomegranates have been affected. Even the bags full of tur that the farmers had stored for want of a better price in the market too got moist, making it harder for the already loss-making farmer to find a buyer.
 
 Officials said the farmers can be compensated under the National Disaster Relief Fund (NDRF), which comes under the Centre, but compensation under it is inadequate as there is a blanket rate. Under the insurance scheme, farmers get compensation at the minimum support price.
 
 “It also takes very long for NDRF money to come to the state, as a report is prepared by the state, sent to the Centre for approval and then funds are released,” said another official.
 
 Six deaths have been reported in the rain, and a Rs 4 lakh compensation package has been declared by the state government for their families.
 
 
