Pune: The   denotification plan of Pune seems to be stuck even as other cities are forging ahead and denotifying their highways. 

  public works department (PWD) minister Chandrakant Patil told TOI on Thursday that Pune’s highways could be denotified only if the civic body submitted a letter demanding ownership of the highways it was maintaining. 
 
 “Unless the civic body submits a letter stating that it wants ownership of the highways it is maintaining, the PWD cannot do much on its end. Such a letter must clearly have at least one line stating that the state highways are maintained by the municipal corporation and that they want them denotified. Only then can PWD take the necessary action,” he said.
 
 Though the PWD’s stand is clear, senior civic officials maintained that they could not take a suo motu decision on such a contentious issue.
 
 Top officials in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) said though most state highways were maintained by the civic body, the PWD was the official custodian of these roads. “We cannot a suo motu decision on   of the highways maintained by us. It is not appropriate that the future liability should be with the PMC for a contentious issue such as restarting liquor shops on highways. It is therefore the PWD that should give a letter to us stating their stand on denotification of highways and also why the highways should be denotified,” the official said.
 
 A senior PWD official said technically, the user agency (PMC in this case) should demand denotification of the highways it was maintaining. “The maintenance, development and control of these highways are under PMC. In other cities too, the highways were denotified only after the respective municipal corporations raised the demand in writing. We have not got any such letter from the PMC,” the official said.
 
 Roads are defined in four categories —   highways, state highways, major district roads and other district roads. The PWD is the custodian of state highways and major district roads. 
 
 “The state highways in Pune have been identified and listed under the road development plan for the 2001-2020 period. If any part of such highways passes through the municipal corporation’s limits, we hand it over to it for maintainance, keeping its status as it is ( i.e. state highway),” the PWD official said.
 
 A source in the Pune District Wine Traders’ Association said, “Though the roads in Pune are technically highways, they are also shown as ‘city roads’ in the development plan of the city. The dual status of one road — one as city road and one as highway — is difficult to understand. It seems there is a confusion about the status of roads. It also appears that both the PWD and the PMC are not ready to identify the status of the roads passing through Pune City.”
 
 The   on March 31 this year had reaffirmed its earlier decision ( December 15, 2016) to ban liquor vending along the national and state highways.
 
 In the aftermath of the March 31 order, the hospitality industry was left jittery, considering the closure of   within 500 metres of the highways.
 
 
