Youngsters from different parts of Rajasthan had come to Jaipur for the auditions of an upcoming dating-based reality show   on Thursday . Punjabi singer-lyricist  , along with former   contestants,   and  , TV actress Mahira Sharma and model Sapna Naik were present at the venue to audition youngsters, who had come to try their luck in the glamour world.
 
  The turnout of the contestants in Jaipur was not as big as in Faridabad, the first city where the auditions took place. The judges, especially Manu who hails from Jaipur, were hopeful about a few contestants who impressed the panel and could make it to the second round which is scheduled to be held in Delhi. The selected contestants will go through another round of auditions in Delhi.
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  While there were few contestants in Jaipur who managed to impress the judges. Manu told us, “Contestants mein thoda spark kam tha. I think it is because not many auditions take place in Rajasthan. But there were a few who were interesting. Being a Rajasthani, I want at least one boy and one girl from our state to make it to the show.“
  
  
 
  
  Indeep, who has earlier been to Jaipur to perform at college fests and weddings, said that Jaipurites are a bit naive. “Jaipur ke log mujhe thode bhole lage. Yeh achhi baat bhi hai aur buri bhi. There were a few contestants who were funny and could be entertaining for the show.“ he said.
  
  Indeep, who has given hits such as Saturday Saturday and Kala Chashma, said that he agreed to be a part of this reality show because he wanted to overcome the writer's block. “I have been struggling with writer's block for some time and thought doing a reality show would help me get back into the writing groove. At the auditions, we had boys saying, `Mujhe iss type ki ladki nahi chahiye. Mujhe dusre type ki ladki chahiye.' I didn't know that ladkiyon ki bhi type hoti hai. All this has helped me generate some new content for my songs,“ shared Indeep.
  
  The judges at the audition were served Jaipur's makkhan lassi and pyaz ki kachori. While Nitibha and Manu finished the lassi as soon as it came, Indeep's lassi glass remained untouched. “I will have it after I am done with the auditions. Main ek nahi do glass lassi piyunga,“ he said.
  
  
 
  
  Talking about the contestants, Nitibha said, “Here I saw individuals, who are already in a relationship with someone, coming and auditioning for the show alone. Though a couple can also come for the auditions, I think a lot of people, particularly boys, were not comfortable auditioning with their partners.“ Nitibha then asked contestants to impress her and make her laugh as a part of their audition.
  
  Impressed by Jaipur's food, Nitibha said, “I love the food here which tastes like heaven. I have come to Jaipur a lot of times with my family and friends. Just like any other girl, I love shopping. My mom had asked me to buy some bandhani saris for her, but due to a tight schedule, I don't think I will be able to do that.“
  
  
 
  
  Rishika Sharma, one of the contestants from Jaipur, impressed the judges with her dancing skills. She shared, “TV has more visibility. I have given auditions for a dance-based reality show earlier. When I got to know that audition for this show is happening here, I thought of trying my luck. Whatever be the result, I will keep giving auditions for various shows till the time I don't get selected.“
  
  
 
  
  Himanshu Jain, a contestant who had come from Udaipur, had to cut his beard so that he could be on the show.Judge Manu had given him a dare to cut his beard. “I went to a nearby barber shop to cut my beard. I didn't shave off the beard completely; I just asked the barber to shorten the length of my beard. This is a big platform and I can do anything to be a part of this show,“ he said.
