An   as well as a foot overbridge at   station will help people avoid the constant flow of traffic on the busy Ring Road

 New Delhi:   Metro’s upcoming   station could finally make crossing Ring Road a less herculean task. The station, which is coming up parallel to Moti Bagh flyover, is located at the junction of Rao Tula Ram Marg and Ring Road and will have significant pedestrianisation for commuters to avoid the constant flow of traffic on the arterial road.
 
 As Delhi   Rail Corporation spokesman Anuj Dayal said: "The intersection is one of the busiest along Ring Road, which is anyway a stretch with heavy traffic. The station has been designed with features for commuters as well as pedestrians using that road." The most significant feature is the underpass, which will come up along one side of the elevated station, providing connectivity for all those crossing the busy Ring Road. 
 
 The underpass will connect the two sides of the road, from RK Puram sector 13 to Moti Bagh-I.
 
 Dayal added, "The underpass will be 4.5m wide and about 75m long. It will also provide connectivity from the ground level via an elevator for differently abled commuters." The underpass, said Dayal, could be used by any pedestrian to cross the road, and would remain open all the time.
 
 Apart from the underpass, the Moti Bagh station will also have an in-built foot overbridge in the unpaid area of the station. This was to help people cross the intersection, from RK Puram sector 12 to South Moti Bagh, or Moti Bagh-II, said Dayal. "There will also be facilities under the station for easy access to para-transit like auto-rickshaws and e-rickshaws," he said. The station, which has been designed with multi-modal features, just like other stations on the upcoming line 7 (Majlis Park-Shiv Vihar), will have clear and easy access to the intermediate para-transit so that surface traffic is not disturbed even as commuters have access to the IPT. Drop-off and pick-up zones have been demarcated. No parking option has been provided.
 
 The station has been constructed at a height of 12m from the road, with the concourse at 7.5m. While it is higher than the Moti Bagh flyover, the entire station is resting on only two columns. The facade of the station has been covered with a special layer, which will cut off access from the platform to the flyover, said a Delhi Metro official. The nearest interchanging station will be INA.
 
