KOCHI: At last, the city corporation has woken up to the danger posed by the overhead   which dangle dangerously, posing threat to the lives of the citizens and causing   to the civic body.The   has decided to remove all such cables which are not   and secured.

 The authorities had earlier given seven days' time to all telecom service providers and other agencies to tag their cables. But most of them did not pay heed to the demand. Now the civic body is planning to remove all cables which are `unauthorized'.
 
 Though deputy mayor and works standing committee chairperson wanted immediate removal of unauthorized cables, the mayor decided that the de cision should be implemented only after corporation council's approval.
 
 “We have referred the issue for the consideration of corporation council. Now, the mayor could give approval in advance for the work if she thinks it appropriate,“ deputy mayor T J Vinod.
 
 For removing cables, Rs 50,000 will have to be given to each of the six zones of the corporation.
 
 Works standing commit tee chairman P M Harris said that an audit should be conducted to identify exact extend and number of overhead cables drawn through the city. “Once the tagging by cable owners are complete, it would be easy for us to identify unauthorized cables. Such cables should be removed immediately. If we find a cable drawn by a particular agency is sans permission, we can collect all the fees the cable owes to the local body,“ he said.
 
 Meanwhile, the opposition councilors said that the mayor could easily give anticipatory approval for the work as there was precedents. “During tenure of the previous council, the anticipatory approval was given for Rs 1.5 crore work for constructing temporary shed at Brahmapuram waste treatment plant. The decision was ratified after the present council came in to force,“ they pointed out.
 
 They alleged that the move to place the issue before council meeting was just a delaying tactic to owners of such cables.“ We have already held several rounds of discussions at the council. All the councillors cutting across party lines have demanded removal of the cables. It would be better if such cables are removed before the onset of monsoon,“ said K J Antony, opposition leader. “If the mayor wants to discuss the issue at the council meeting again, we are ready to do that. But, the decision should not be delayed by doing so,“ he said.
 
