NEW DELHI:   have been enduring tough times in the fifth season of   and are languishing at the bottom of the table in Zone A. Therefore, it was pretty surprising to see a full house at the   even before the hosts had taken to the mat for their Inter Zone Challenge match against   on Tuesday evening. 

 Most seats at the venue had been occupied well before the first contest of the evening between the two debutants,   and  , got underway . However, all the cheering and egging on by the emcee was not sufficient for Delhi to bring about a change in their fortunes and they were beaten 3634 by Patna Pirates.
 
 Delhi did well to curtail the lead every time they were on the backfoot and with three mi nutes remaining, both sides were locked 31-31. However, star raider Pardeep Narwal put his side in the lead before the defending champions inflicted an all out on Delhi, winning a couple of crucial points.Narwal finished with 14 points to continue with his terrific form in the league. Meanwhile, it was Delhi's fourth straight loss in as many games at home. 
 
 Thakur does the star turn Trust veteran raider Ajay Thakur to display his character every time the chips are down. His famed persistence and cool head helped India beat Iran in the World Cup final in Ahmedabad last October, and he is the sole reason that Tamil Thalaivas are still battling on in the league.
 
 The Thalaivas, placed at the bottom of Zone B, staged a miraculous comeback thanks to Thakur's sheer will, and overcame the highflying Gujarat Fortunegiants 35-34 in an Inter Zone Challenge match.What's more, the sounding of the final hooter was the only occasion on which the Thalaivas found themselves ahead in the entire contest! Thakur, incidentally , had performed a similar feat against Bengal Warriors on Sunday , helping his team to a 33-32 victory . He finished with a match haul of 14 raid points and was ably supported by the other raider K Prapanjan, who notched up nine points.
 
 Gujarat were ahead for virtually the whole match, so much so they led by 10 points going into the final stretch. But Thakur was simply unwilling to give up. He kept reducing the deficit against the side led by Hegde, who looked to be trying to somehow hold on to the lead.However, that was not to be and they paid a heavy price for misjudgement.
 
 
