GURUGRAM: Participation in winter sports is not something that comes naturally to Indian athletes (Shiva Keshavan is the outstanding exception to the rule). But last month, three youngsters returned from Europe with just rewards for their spirit and dedication.

 Ayush Sharma,   and   aren’t ordinary athletes. They are young men with special needs, and also a special desire to succeed. At the 2017   World Winter Games, this trio contributed to a rich haul of medals, 73 altogether, including 37 gold, 10 silver and 26 bronze. 
 
 Ayush, Mayank and Ellis were helped in no small measure by the intense training they received from two Gurgaon coaches.   and   combine training duties with the responsibilities of being a marshal, at the city-based ice rink iSKATE. Over two years, the duo trained around 60   kids, in figure and speed skating. Of the 60, six showed enough promise to be selected for the 89-strong squad. Chandrabhan and Jyoti also travelled with the Indian contingent.
 
 Not surprisingly, they faced challenges in getting the youngsters competition ready. Here, after all, are special-needs athletes, and training them requires heaps of time, commitment and patience. “If we explained something to them, they might understand it physically but they would struggle to remember it. So we had to remind them every day, that this is what you have to do today,” shared Jyoti. “But they were very keen to learn, and to improve.”
 
 Before training can begin, clear channels of communication have to be opened up, and confidences gained. “For such kids, Jyoti and Chandrabhan have been working with the parents, so this was a gradual process. Because you have to remember these kids have never lived alone without their parents – they need them for every single basic thing,” said Karan Rai, in-charge of operations and business development at iSKATE.
 
 Still, it isn’t the first time that India has shone at this biennial event for athletes with intellectual disabilities. Delhi boy Rajkumar Tiwari won figure-skating gold and silver at the 2013 Special Olympics World Winter Games, in Pyeongchang, South Korea, with Chandrabhan having a big part to play in that success.
 
 For the record, Ayush, 21, won silver in figure skating (level 1), while there was also silver for Ellis, 21, in speed skating (111 metres). Mayank, 24, took home a silver (111 meters) and a bronze (55 meters) in speed skating. Chandrabhan and Jyoti deserve as much praise as their charges for scripting this success story.
 
 
