LUCKNOW: Quiet flows the Chambal river in Etawah region, even as it witnesses trouble in the Yadav paradise. The community that benefited immensely from   becoming chief minister of Uttar Pradesh three times and his son   taking hold of the reins in the Samajwadi Party’s landslide win in 2012 is at a crossroads with the recent rumblings in the party.

 In this once dacoit-infested region, Yadavs were empowered socially and economically, getting recruited in police and other government services, besides procuring maximum contracts for building construction and their representation in the village and district panchayats. “The fruits of SP ruling the state four times have been harvested mainly by the Yadavs,” observed Ashutosh Mishra, social scientist, adding that it could be one of the reasons for the left out non-Yadavs coming under rival umbrella in this elections in this region. But it is the divide within the Yadavs that is a cause of worry for the party.
 
 Regional stalwarts like Brahmdutt Dwivedi and Balram Yadav are no more and it is Mulayam Singh Yadav and his family members who are the unchallenged chieftains of the region. But the recent family feud has led to some visible fault lines which was quite evident from Akhilesh’s speeches on his home turf in which he cautioned the saboteurs.
 
 After Mulayam campaigned for his younger brother Shivpal Yadav, seeking his re-election for the fifth time with a record margin, the battle lines are sharper and deeper. Shivpal grudges a section of the party against him is conspiring to ensure his defeat and so he has been camping in Jaswant Nagar constituency for nearly 30 days, though in 2012 elections, he visited the constituency only once. Shivpal is mellowed and speaking to TOI, he said the   would form government on March 11 and that he would strengthen the organisation. No bitterness against Akhilesh was evident, though in his public meetings he compares the election with a “dharm yudh”.
 
 On the other hand, campaigning in Etawah , Shivpal’s cousin Ram Gopal Yadav taunted that “most of the garbage of the party has been thrown out and remaining will be shown exit after March 11”. This has fuelled the factional fight in the family percolating down to the grass-roots. It is unbelievable to see Mulayam now campaigning for Lok Dal and Rashtriya Lok Dal candidates in his domain. His fellow villagers in Saifai and in the vicinity around feel “anyaya”(injustice) has been done to him. “Neta ji hi hum logo ke pita-tulya hain”(Mulayam is a father figure for us),” said Rajendra Yadav, who owns a paddy field.
 
 The Yadavland comprises half-a-dozen districts, including Auraiyya, Mainpuri, Firozabad, Kaasganj, Etah and parts of Kannauj and the threat to this bastion is palpable. Yadavs and general supporters of the party feel the empire is under siege. An extensive tour of the districts around Etawah shows there is anger against ‘Yadavisation’ of the thana level police while the reported Yadav aggression has triggered polarisation against the Samajwadi Party in Etawah, Firozabad, Auraiyya, Kannauj and Mainpuri. 
 
 “The young generation of Yadavs is with Akhilesh, who they see as their future while the older generation remains loyal to his rival faction,” said Suresh Yadav, running a dairy in Etawah. In a good number of assembly constituencies, SP candidates are for the first time being challenged by the party and family rebels.
 
 In Etawah, barring Shivpal’s Jaswant Nagar, in Etawah Sadar and Bharthana seats, the SP is facing stiff challenge and contest is more between the BJP and the BSP. In Auraiyya, Dibiyapur and Vidhuna, SP fate is in doldrums in Mainpuri, Sadar, Kisni, Karhal and Bhogaon. In Firozabad, Etah and Kaasganj, where polling has already taken place, SP has faced tough contest.
 
 In Etawah Sadar, BJP’s fielding a Rajput candidate Sarita Bhadauria has angered the Brahmins as BSP is fielding a Brahmin. In Etawah, Auraiyya, Kasganj, Etah and Kannauj, BJP workers are upbeat while BSP is depending on Muslim votes to defeat its rivals.
 
