MUMBAI: Almost a year after the Maharashtra   ordered authorities to throw open a 29,000 sq-ft playground to public, Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (Mhada) on Monday finally acted on the directive. The ground, which was under the control of a school trust run by former minister Ranjit Deshmukh and his son  , who is a BJP MLA, can now be used by children from the locality.

 Mhada officials, on Monday, accompanied by a police team, put up notice boards informing the public that the ground is “open for children of Charkop locality from 6am to 7pm daily. Whoever prevents children from playing on the ground, action will be taken against them as per provisions in the law“.
 
 In June 2016, the state's anticorruption ombudsman, headed by Justice (retired) M L  , had ordered that the playground should be thrown open for children of the area within 48 hours. A local activist,  , on whose complaint the Lokayukta had passed the orders, questioned the delay in initiating action. “This is a big victory of the common public against influential politicians. This was a clear case of officials acting under pressure and overlooking violations, which amounted to contempt of court orders and directions of the Lokayukta. The ground was usurped and misused by the school authorities,“ said Abraham.
 
 Mhada had allotted Vidya Shikshan Prasarak Mandal around 2,251 sqm for constructing a school and 2,685 sqm of playground in 2005. Akshara High School came up on the plot earmarked for the school. In his complaint to the Lokayukta, Abraham, president of United Association for Social Education and Public Welfare, alleged that the trust had “grabbed the plot“ and installed gates to bar entry of children. Mhada admitted before the Lokayukta that the lease agreement clearly said the playground should be kept open for children.
 
 The Lokayukta in its orders had said that “(The playground) is virtually converted into a pri vate property of the mandal,“ and ordered that any violation of its orders should be reported to the Charkop police. “This office has to pass interim orders to protect the ground and make it available to children residing in the colonies of Charkop,“ the authority had added in its directives. However, no action was taken in light of a Bombay high court status quo order that was vacated in February. This paved the way for Mhada to implement the Lokayukta's orders.
 
