NEW DELHI: The Delhi government’s irrigation and flood control department is planning to widen the   between Palla and Hiranki villages from a single road to a double-lane stretch up to 10kms by the end of this year. To be executed in a phased manner, the road is expected to ease traffic   around the   crossing on Ring Road.

 This is part of a 20-km project to widen the embankment from the city side right up to Jharoda, which links Wazirabad on the Ring Road. The first phase is under execution and 27% of the work has already been done. The department is hoping to complete the first phase from Palla to Hiranki by July this year. However, the road will be ready for public use before the end of this year, an I&FC department official said.
 
 In the first phase, the road width is being expanded from existing 5.5m to 9.5m at a cost Rs 8.60 crore. “The widening is taking place on the city side, so that the floodplain is not affected. About 27% of work is already complete,” an official said. Once the work is over, the road will benefit the traffic coming from the villages to the city side or towards the Ring Road. However, the real benefit in terms of easing traffic at the Burari crossing will be evident only when the entire embankment from Palla up to Wazirabad is widened.
 
 The second phase, which is in the approval stage, will include widening of the road from Hiranki to   and then to Jharoda. This is estimated to cost the government Rs 9.65 crore. The stretch from Jagatpur Mor to Jharoda that goes on to link Wazirabad at Ram Ghat will also be widened at a cost of Rs 9.39 crore.
 
 Explaining the cost difference, the officials say while only widening is being done in the first phase, there is a need to build a retainer wall along a certain portion of the bund in the next phase. They also claim that the embankment needs to be raised at some places on the basis of flood assessment data.
 
 However, the deadline for the second phase is yet to be firmed up as the widening will require cutting of trees, for which permission has been sought. The pace of work will depend on how soon the approval is granted. 
 
 “Once completed, the road will serve as a bypass for the village traffic and will reduce the load on the Ring Road. It will definitely help ease the traffic flow,” Keshav Chandra, secretary (I&FC), told TOI.
 
 
