Social media has been abuzz with the news of the skirmish between actress   and a makeup man on the sets of P T Kunju Muhammad’s upcoming movie  . Grapevine had it that the actress was rude to the makeup man  . And this prompted many on social media to question how an upcoming actress can become so arrogant. Many even resorted to trolling, criticising and even name calling the actress. 

 However, a source from the team has a different story to tell about the scuffle that happened last Sunday at the shooting location in Government Brennen College, Thalassery. The source says, “We had scheduled the shooting of the climax scene at 5 am. Prayaga, who usually does her own makeup, had requested for a makeup man as she had to look a bit dull in the scenes. Paryaga suggested him to reduce the makeup a bit but he was offended at her for pointing it out. He then rudely told her, ‘These actresses are always like this, will not allow us to do anything’. But Prayaga didn’t react at that point and she told us that she’s keeping mum as she didn’t want to disrupt the shooting. 
 
 “However, around 7.30 am, after the sequences were shot, we saw Prayaga and her mother talking to the makeup man. When Prayaga’s mother questioned him for shouting at her, Raheem started yelling at her. ‘Will you go by whatever your daughter says?’ Prayaga interfered and asked him to behave properly. She pointed her finger at him while saying so. I guess that provoked Raheem and he retaliated.”
 
 When we contacted Prayaga, she confirmed the incident. “The director and cinematographer had witnessed the incident when Pattanam Rasheed’s assistant Raheem raised his voice at me. ‘You are just a woman, how dare you point your fingers at me,’ he said while sizing me up from head to toe. He then went on to twist my right arm.”
 
 After discussing the incidence with her dad, Prayaga and her family spoke to the director. “PT sir was shocked. But he requested us not to make an issue out of it as it would affect the film. And Raheem, in front of the entire crew, apologised for his nasty behaviour. But I do not think I should stay mum now as the online rumours are accusing me and saying that I slapped the makeup man,” says Prayaga, hinting that art director   accused her for “being arrogant” in his social media account. The post was later removed. But by then, it had already invited a volley of trolls against the actress.
 
 A peeved Prayaga says, “I felt really upset seeing the trolls, criticisms and abuses against me. Now, I have filed a complaint about the incident in AMMA (Association of Malayalam Movie Artists) and FEFKA (Film Employees Federation Of Kerala). People are blaming me without knowing the reality. Now, I regret not slapping him when he assaulted me.”
 
 The actress adds, “I hope AMMA and FEFKA will take the necessary action. If not I will proceed legally. I don’t want to remain silent as my fight is not just for my self-respect but for all the women in the industry. If I do not react to this, such things will recur. No woman in Malayalam industry should face disrespect ever.”
 
 
 
 From the beginning of the film’s shoot, Prayaga was doing her own makeup and we never interfered. But as the climax scene needed her in a dull look, the director wasn’t satisfied with the makeup she did herself and he asked me to do the touch up. I think she did not like it. She got irritated and was rude to me. So I asked her why she was acting as if she was allergic to me. I am also an artiste. However, she went on with her impoliteness and I had to handover the makeup brush to my assistants and walk off. Later, the actress and her mom questioned me. Prayaga spoke in a graceless manner, pointing her finger at me. All I told her was not to point finger at me because she is a woman and it is not good for women to do so. Her gesture was as if she was about to slap me, and I stopped her. That was what happened. I apologised in front of the entire crew as I did not want the incident to affect the film.
 
 
 It is common to have minor differences of opinions during the shooting. It was such an incident and we have settled it among ourselves. The makeup man had apologised to the actress as well. It has been reported in AMMA and FEFKA, and I am answerable only to them. The social media posts are absolutely false.
 
 
  I spoke to both Prayaga and Raheem. We have taken it very seriously and will act according to the enquiry findings.
 
 
 
 Prayaga-Raheem issue has been settled. We have sorted it out among ourselves. It is not something that should be discussed on a public platform.
 
 
