NAGPUR: Most Nagpurians feel that prices of daily need items need to be controlled. Middle class and lower middle class expect the government to pass on the benefits of demonetization. When it comes to their professional front, citizens are hoping that some support is provided to industries.

 Ajeet Singh, who runs a security and housekeeping service, says the tax exemption limit should be increased from Rs 2.5 lakh to at least Rs 5 lakh. “We have 225 employees who are below middle class, and they should be given relief to beat inflation, especially when it comes to items of daily need,” he said.
 
 Professor Dr Bhavana Butey highlighted the need for tax deduction for salaried persons. “All our earnings are white income and because of the low tax exemption limit, we are not able to save much. At least three months of the annual salary goes in paying tax annually. The cap on mediclaim should also be increased, given that medical treatments are becoming expensive,” she says.
 
 Advocate Anjan Kumar Chatterjee is a retired individual, who feels that the interest from National Pension Scheme should not be taxable. “For many people, especially those who have retired from private companies, pension is the only source of sustenance, and the tax reduces the value of money.”
 
 Sapna Kale works for NGOs in health care and environment sector. She shares how women have low access to public toilets due to issues of hygiene, and hopes things improve in the regard.
 
 Naresh Chafekar, a software freelancer, says demonetization was taken in the right spirit, and it is time the government passes on the benefits to the middle class. “Reduction in taxation is the need of the hour. Other than that, infrastructure should be improved, especially of corporation schools and hospitals.” Talking about IT sector, he says Donald Trump’s policies have brought unease in the field and the government should upgrade computerization in the country itself for social upliftment.
 
  said prices of food, petrol and gas should be tackled to ease the budget of homemakers.
 
 Rina Sinha, director of NIIT, shed light on the need to have incentives for those pursuing higher education, and to reduce service tax. “When service tax is increased, an individual learner ends up paying more. Incentives in pursuing higher education will help in upskilling knowledge of the workforce,” she says.
 
