PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The traffic police has recommended installing and operationalising traffic signals as well as   island to reduce snarls at   and Shivar Chowk in   on the Nashik Phata-Wakad bus   (BRT) route.

 Speaking with TOI, police inspector Kishore Mhaswade of the Sangvi traffic police said, “Four days ago, we wrote to the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation recommending measures to solve the traffic problems. There is no traffic signal at Kokane Chowk so we have recommended that one be installed here. The civic body has installed a traffic signal at Shivar Chowk but it needs to be made operational.”
 
 Mhaswade said that the traffic island at Kokane Chowk is quite large so vehicles struggle while crossing the junction. The police have recommended that the island be trimmed to make space for vehicles.
 
 There is traffic congestion at both Kokane and Shivar junctions during peak hours in the morning and evening. The number of vehicles passing through these chowks has increased tremendously over two years. Around 2015, the defence authorities closed the Kunjirvasti-Rakshak Chowk road that passes through its land due to High Court directives.
 
 Balbir Singh, a resident of Ginger society in Pimple Saudagar, said, “There is traffic congestion from Spot 18 to Shivar Chowk. It is difficult for vehicles to take a right turn towards the Kunal Icon Road. Traffic on Nashik Phata-Wakad Road has increased since local residents use the road to go to Nashik Phata, Bhosari, Chakan and Pune ever since Kunjirvasti-Rakshak Chowk Road was closed.”
 
 Another resident of the area Atul Kumthekar added that people coming out of a shopping mall near Kokane Chowk tend to drive on the wrong side leading to traffic congestion. It is a major junction as many roads meet at this chowk. The traffic signal at the junction must be started with immediate effect,” he said.
 
 Amit Jadhav, another resident, pointed out that vehicles ply at high speed on Nashik Phata-Wakad BRTS road because of the non-functional traffic signal. Sumit Naik, another resident, demanded that traffic police be regularly posted at both junctions so as to control the traffic.
 
 
