MUMBAI: The special   court has rejected an application submitted by Sahara chief   that sought an exemption from Thursday’s proceedings in a Securities and Exchange Board (SEBI) Act matter on grounds of  . 

 In its detailed order, the   said the accused had used the liberty of exemption as a litigational strategy to keep himself away from the trial and frustrate the purpose of the liberty. “I am of the opinion that the exemption sought by accused number 5 (Roy) is to avoid a hearing on framing of charges and protract the trial and keep the case idle.” Roy was absent from the proceedings on Thursday.
 
 The court further observed that if such applications are entertained, there would be no end to the trial. The matter will come up for hearing on June 7.
 
 The court also issued a notice to Dr R N Jain from the Noida Medicare Centre who issued the medical certificate. 
 
 The court said the doctor was to appear personally and submit an affidavit along with medical literature to show why a patient of gastroenteritis should remain bed-ridden for five days and why he cannot attend court proceedings when there were specific directions from the Bombay high court. 
 
 In April, the high court had said that Roy was to give an undertaking that he would attend court proceedings on every stipulated date and not seek adjournments. Roy had submitted such an undertaking earlier this month. 
 
 The high court also said that an application seeking exemption may be considered on its own merits, more particularly, if a case is made out that there are inevitable circumstances due to which he cannot attend court. Further, it held that the trial court was not to grant exemption at the stage of framing of charges and recording of evidence. 
 
 On Thursday, the SEBI prosecutor strongly opposed the exemption application contending that the certificate issued by Jain was “very cryptic and obtained only to defeat the purpose of court proceedings”. 
 
 While the court was to commence proceedings on framing of charges, Roy’s advocate moved a discharge plea on behalf of the company,  . Referring to the timing of the discharge application, the court said that this prima facie indicated the calculated and strategic step by Roy and the company to circumvent the legal process. 
 
 The court further stated that SEBI was not made aware of the filing of the application well in advance. “The accused must know that once the application is filed, SEBI will seek time to file its reply and the case will be automatically adjourned by frustrating the very purpose of the order of the honourable high court,” the court said. It further stated that none of the accused availed the opportunity of a hearing on framing of charges and henceforth no discharge application would be entertained.
 
 The court said the doctor was to appear personally and submit an affidavit along with medical literature to show why a patient of gastroenteritis should remain bed-ridden for five days and why he cannot attend court proceedings.
 
