BHOPAL: State cabinet led by chief minister   held a meeting at Hanuwantiya island on Friday and decided that all announcements made by Chouhan right from inception of the Narmada Seva Yatra to the culmination of river restoration project will be taken as “mission” and accomplished before the 2018 assembly elections.

 The meeting, which started at 11 am, continued till 5 pm. Speaking to TOI, minister for school education Vijay Shah said, “The cabinet decided to take the Narmada restoration journey from Amarkantak to Sondhwa in Alirajpur on a mission mode. The chief minister Chouhan also chaired detailed review meetings of six departments including energy, industry and commerce, health and SC/ST welfare.” Among the cabinet members who attended the meeting included finance minister Jayant Malaiya, minister for panchayat and rural development  , minister for forests Gaurishankar Shejwar, minister for women and child development Archana Chitnis, minister for farmers’ welfare Gaurishankar Bisen, minister for animal husbandry Antar Singh Arya, minister for higher education Jaibhan Singh Pawaiyya, minister for labour  , minister for industry Rajendra Shukla, school education minister Vijay Shah, revenue minister Umashankar Gupta, PWD minister Rampal Singh and ministers of state Vishwas Sarang, Surendra Patwa, Lal Singh Arya, and Deepak Joshi.
 
 Minister for water resources Narottam Mishra and minister for SC/ST welfare Gyan Singh were not present. While Mishra is busy managing elections for the party in Uttar Pradesh, Gyan Singh, who is now   MP from Shahdol, was in the parliament for the ongoing budget session. “There was a detailed meeting with the energy department and the issue of illegal power connections was discussed,” said Shah, adding that the government is contemplating a scheme to address the problem.
 
 The cabinet also decided to give priority to development in Nimar region. Nimar Development Authority will be formed for planned development of roads, electricity, water, health and education, besides other basic infrastructure. Decision to form new 6 missions was also taken including Micro Irrigation, Agro Forestry, Youth Empowerment, Health, Housing and Narmada Seva Mission.
 
 Under micro-irrigation project, coordinated efforts will be made by water resources department, Narmada Valley Development, agriculture and horticulture departments. A target to increase micro-irrigation capacity from 75000 hectares to 4 to 5 lakh hectares annually was proposed. Agro forestry will be encouraged to double farmers’ income, for which agriculture, horticulture and forest departments will coordinate.
 
 Under youth empowerment mission, efforts will be made to link youths with employment through skill development. Coordinated efforts will be made by higher education, technical education, commerce-industry and employment, MSME and panchayat departments.
 
 It was also stated that the government’s new health mission will aim for 50% reduction in child and maternal mortality rates over the next 5 years. Under housing mission, land and houses will be provided to all homeless on concessional rates by 2022. Under Narmada Seva Mission, there will be plantation, proper disposal of sewage water, purification of ghats and sanitation arrangements. Work will be undertaken in coordination with departments of rural development, urban development, housing, horticulture and forest.
 
 Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan accompanied by his wife Sadhana and council of ministers also performed ‘aarti’ of Narmada river as part of Narmada Jayanti celebrations. He administered the resolve to conserve the Narmada and other rivers, plant saplings on banks of the river, make efforts to maintain cleanliness and check pollution. Chouhan and his ministers also performed ‘abhishek’ and recited ‘Narmadashtak’.
 
