PATNA: A new trend has developed in the state capital, especially among people of high-income group. They have, off late, started spending money on  , Bollywood and at times even foreigners to perform dance at the   and corporate functions. 

 Priya Kanchan, from the trade support department of an event management firm in Bandar Bagicha area said Kolkata is the most sought-after place when it comes to calling entertainers such as dance troupes, DJs, anchors or singers as their charge is also comparatively affordable.
 
 “High-end wedding and corporate events involve an entertainment segment. The performers from metros bring something new to each performance. Their style, steps and song selections are all unique,” said Kanchan, adding that celebrities are invited as well for appearances mostly in weddings or product launches. 
 
 “As per the budget of the client, Bhojpuri, Hindi TV serial or Bollywood actors are preferred. Female DJs are in high demand in the city. Inviting music bands is another trend that is the in-thing in Patna,” added Kanchan.
 
 “Around 80% of the performers that we call are from Kolkata and some are from Delhi, while 20% are foreigners, who are either belly dancers or violinists. People are ready to spend huge amount as one can easily assess from the fact that they charge minimum Rs2 lakh,” said Reshu Agarwal, owner of an event firm situated in Old Jakkanpur area. 
 
 On the kind of functions where entertainers are in high demand are in weddings as compared to corporate events where the budget is fixed. “Nowadays even the waiters and waitresses from metros are preferred by clients,” she added. Many of these, she says, are hotel management interns and thus are professionally trained. 
 
 According to Swati Sharma, general manager of the zonal office of an event firm based in Mumbai, performers are primarily called from Kolkata, followed by Delhi and Mumbai. 
 
 “Corporates spend as much as Rs3 lakh on entertainment at their events. When it comes to weddings, people of Patna are ready to spend anything from Rs1.5 lakh to Rs4 lakh. The trend to call dance troupe or DJ is now not limited to Patna alone; it has spread to even smaller towns of the state,” Sharma said.
 
 Sharma revealed that recently one of their clients from Sitamarhi called a female DJ from Mumbai for an event. 
 
 
