PANAJI:   general   said he was more keen than anyone to prevent illegalities and the use of forged documents to attain Portuguese nationality, but he has received little or no help at all from the Indian and local authorities. “I am really concerned but helpless in such a situation,” he said.

 Baceira said since his arrival here in 2014, he has tried to personally monitor the nationality processes of applicants and has even received threatening phone calls for his attempts to expose the “mafias” that operate within the system posing as agents. The worst of these are based in  . 
 
 The scramble for Portuguese passports has not cooled off even after Brexit, though there was a 15% drop in the early days post the vote. Even now 90% of applicants head to the UK. But, increasingly, those working in the   are also queuing up on the hopes of higher wages paid to   passport holders. The consulate processes seven applications for nationality in a month,   said. The Conservatoria dos Registos Centrais in Lisbon handles 30. Over 4,100 persons traded Indian citizenship for Portuguese nationality in Goa last year. 
 
 A source in the consulate says some 17,000 applications have gone through the Goa mission since it set up in 1994, with some 14,000 cleared since. But possibly 10 times the number has been routed directly through lawyers and agents to Lisbon.
 
 From Daman, mafias have been known to send hardly-literate people to the UK. When they arrive at Heathrow, their passports are taken away by agents and held till they can pay 5,000 euros, said Baceira. “What if one of these people turns out to be a terrorist?” 
 
 But possibly the worst cases—the “real soap opera” in the consul’s description—are the fake applicants with forged documents of stolen identities. The consulate uncovered three such cases just last week. Such attempts are common in other former Portuguese colonies in Africa and Brazil as well. An investigation into such cases can take up to two years. 
 
 “In the interim, the person continues to live happily in the EU country with his wife and children,” said Baceira. Portugal is “aware of the situation”, he said, adding the government plans to tighten the laws for the nationality process.
 
