HYDERABAD: With an indefinite strike against excessive toll tax taking hold on Thursday morning, about 90 per cent of 3.5 lakh trucks in Telangana came to a screeching halt. 

 A majority of the 15-lakh trucks plying in the southern region, including Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Pondicherry, Tamil Nadu and Kerala went off the roads, hitting supplies of rice, wheat, sugar and pulses. Even supplies of steel, sand and cement were disrupted.
 
 The transporters are on strike over the issue of excessive toll tax being collected on state highways from lorry drivers. Earlier this week, the   P Mahender Reddy held a meeting with the Telangana Lorry Owners' Association and South India Motor Transport Association (SIMTA) members in an attempt to pacify them, but could not convince them to call off the strike.
 
 Only small goods transporters who had already dispatched their vehicles around midnight, were allowed by the unions to ply. "Some lorry drivers were under the impression that the strike will begin at midnight and hence started off towards their destinations. They were allowed to ply, but come Friday, even they will join the strike," said Durga Prasad, secretary, TS Lorry Owners' Association and leader of SIMTA.
 
 Members of SIMTA announced that transport of essential commodities such as water, milk, vegetables, medicines, petrol and LPG would be exempted from the strike. The association will also take a decision on stopping essential commodities, if the government uses force to end the strike or arrests its president or office-bearers. "We will first stop transportation of LPG gas, followed by other essential commodities if that happens," said Prasad.
 
 In AP, 80 per cent loading of goods stopped on Thursday. "By tomorrow, entire 100 per cent loading will come to a halt. The per day loss due to the strike is 20,000 crore across the southern states," said Gopal Naidu, president,  . 
 
 Even as essential goods have been exempted from the strike, few areas in the city reported less supply of vegetables, especially to places which receive supplies from Vicarabad, Siddipet and Tandur by lorries. "We received just 20 per cent of regular supply of vegetables today," said Andullah, a vendor in  .
 
 The agriculture marketing department is hoping essential commodities will remain undisrupted. "There will be a huge impact on the Rythu bazaar if they go back on the exemption," said Lakshmi Bai, additional director marketing, agriculture and marketing cooperation department.
 
 
