PUNE: Mild winters and harsh summers are here to stay, a recent study by the Centre for   and   in Chennai has indicated. 

 By the end of the 21st century, the average maximum temperature in the west central regions covering Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra and north central areas comprising Odisha, Bihar and UP could go up to 44 degrees C in comparison to the 1975-2005 reference period average of 40.2 degrees C — a rise of 4 degrees C.
 
 By 2080, the northwest region comprising Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, Gujarat would witness average day temperatures of 42 degrees C — around 3 degrees more than the reference period average of 39 degrees C, the study added.
 
 Prasanta Kumar Bal, former scientist at the Centre for Climate Change and Adaptation Research in Chennai, told TOI that projections of annual mean maximum temperature over India for the periods 2005-2035, 2035-2065 and 2065-2095 indicate an average increase of 0.9 degrees C, 2.1 degrees C and 3.4 degrees C.
 
 The minimum temperature will increase more rapidly than the maximum temperature, the study added. 
 
 Projections of the annual mean minimum temperatures over India for 2020s, 2050s and 2080s indicate an average rise of 0.9 degrees celsius, 2.3 degrees celsius, 3.6 degrees celsius, respectively-- a rise of 3.7 degrees over the next 100 years.
 
 Night temperature would rise in the range of 2.8-4.7 degrees celsius for different projections by the end of this century, Bal who was earlier at the Chennai facility, said. 
 
 “Greenhouse gases have a higher impact at night when they absorb infra-red radiation and reduce the cooling. This effect is more intense than daytime warming. Therefore, the increase in the minimum temperature is more rapid than the maximum temperature. There is a negative trend in the diurnal temperature range during the end of the century, which indicates that the minimum temperatures are warming faster than the maximum temperatures,” Bal said.
 
 All ensembles of a regional climate model project an average increase in maximum temperature during the monsoon months from June to September by 2080s to 32-35 degrees C from the reference period temperature of 30-32.8 degrees C. This increase would be experienced over all climatic zones, except the northwest and northern hilly regions, Bal added.
 
 The average maximum temperature in the northwest and northern hilly zones during the monsoon may rise to 38.1 degrees C and 21.5 degrees C respectively by the end of the century, in contrast to the reference period values of 35.6 degrees C and 18.1 degrees C respectively.
 
 “Increasing concentration of CO2 and greenhouse gases is the primary reason for the rising temperatures. Six different ensemble simulations are being done, which indicate an increase of 2.5-4.4 degrees C in day temperatures towards the end of the 21st century,” Bal said.
 
 A K Srivastava, senior scientist and head of the climate monitoring and analysis group at India Meteorological Department, Pune, said observed changes in temperature since 1901 indicate that the minimum temperature in the country began rising rapidly after the 1980s.
 
 “Increase in pollutants and greenhouse gases after the 1980s seem to hinder the earth’s outgoing long wave radiation to the sky at night leading to an increase in night temperature,” he added.
 
 Scientists said oceans affect coastal areas more and therefore these areas respond slowly to human-induced climate change. “Rapid urbanization and industrialization impact interior areas making them more sensitive to climate change and a warming contrast from the coastal to interior land regions is apparent in the future changes,” they added.
 
 The study was recently published in the international journal ‘Asia-Pacific Journal of the Atmospheric Sciences’. Bal was guided by A Ramachandran, former director of the Chennai facility. Other researchers from the climate change centre and the   in   in the UK also contributed.
 
