HYDERABAD: Starving and literally living on the roads in fear and agony, 24 Indian workers in   are pleading for help to return home. 

 Among the workers are 10 from  , four from Telangana and 10 from Odisha. 
 
 Deceived by the agent who sent them to Saudi and neglected by the company, they are forced to work in hazardous conditions. Their crisis has further deepened as the embassy which came to their help pulled out after the company which employs the workers resorted to some foul play.
 
 In a video message to   affairs minister K T Rama Rao, the workers narrated their woes and pleaded for help. The minister asked for their contact details to reach out to them.
 
 “We have no food to eat. We are living on the roads. We have also been beaten up by the company which is forcing us to do risky jobs,“ the workers said. In a four-page letter to the minister, they explained the circumstances in which they had landed in   but are unable to come back.
 
 In October 2016, the workers were interviewed by an agent and sent to Riyadh. However, on landing there, they were made to work for a different company which also did not provide safety gear at the construction site for the welders and pipe-fitters. Worse, they did not even provide them food. They were also not provided Iqama (identity) which would make their stay legal there.
 
 They found some ray of hope when the Indian embassy provided an emergency certificate to help them leave Saudi during the amnesty period on April 6, 2017. However, in a bid to prevent the workers from leaving the country , the company made   (identification cards) in a hurry on April 9 and informed the embassy. On April 14, the workers were informed by the embassy that they could not leave because their Iqamas had been made by the company.
 
 An agent of the company who came from Chennai and even the embassy asked the workers to report back to the company or else they would be jailed. Driving the final nail, the company has seized their passports.
 
 
