GAYA: Even though the Patna high court has granted the government and the Magadh University (MU) authorities the freedom to act in accordance with law on the contentious issue of retirement age of college principals, MU’s acting VC Kusum Kumari has positioned herself in a wait-and-watch mode.   While issuing notice to respondents in CWJC no 2250/17, Justice Ravi Ranjan of the Patna high court in his March 2 order said, “However it is made clear that pendency of this case would not come in the way of the state authorities and authorities of Magadh University in proceeding in any manner in accordance with law.” The court thus gave the liberty to university authorities to order superannuation of such college principals who have already crossed 62 years of age, the superannuation limit for non-teaching employees.    Such principals include Babban Singh of the College of Arts, Science and Commerce and Raj Kishori Devi of the K S M College, Aurangabad.    The writ petition in the high court was filed by Ashutosh Kumar Sinha and Arun Kumar Jha, associate professors with the College of Arts, Science and Commerce. The petition demanded the superannuation of Babban Singh on the ground that the 2012 amendment to the Bihar State Universities Act 1976 has de-listed principals from the category of teachers.    As per the 2012 amendment, only professors, associate professors and assistant professors are entitled to the privileges of teacher and such privileges include a higher age of superannuation (65 years). Employees other than teachers retire at the age of 62 years.    The MU’s acting VC said on Wednesday she would prefer to wait for the HC order than act in haste. When reminded that as per the HC order she was free to take a call on the retirement age issue, the VC said it would be prudent to wait for the final court verdict.    Meanwhile, whistle-blower and PU’s Prof Shiv Jatan Thakur has also appealed to governor-cum-chancellor Ram Nath Kovind to ensure the retirement of principals who have attained the age of 62 years.    In a two-page petition addressed to the chancellor, Thakur has extensively quoted the provisions of Bihar State Universities Act, UGC regulations and the ordinance and regulation approved by the chancellor vide notification no. BSU-05/2010-1455/GS(I) dated November 6, 2012. The notification excludes principals from the ambit of research supervision, a privilege to which only professors, associate professors and assistant professors are entitled.    Making principals ineligible for research guidance confirms the non-teaching status of the principals, said the petition.