THANE: The city crime branch has arrested eight persons, including six women, who are allegedly part of a syndicate involved in   and   across the state.

 Police said following a tip-off, they kept a watch near a hotel at   on Sunday. On spotting a couple moving in a suspicious manner with a baby in their arms, sleuths in plain clothes asked the couple their names and inquired about the baby. However, the couple was evasive in their replies. Police then apprehended them. Upon questioning, they confessed that had come to sell the baby in Mumbai for Rs 1.35 lakh.
 
 “They had a one-month-old male child. It is likely they are running a full-fledged set-up across different parts of the state,” said senior inspector of crime branch unit-1, Nitin Thakre. Police said the duo identified themselves as Rakhi Bhabre, 38, of Vikroli, and Harjinder Dharamsingh Gill, 42, from Chembur.
 
 Bhabre has told the police two persons had earlier come from Ahmednagar district to Mumbra township to sell the child. “She said they gave the child to two women in Mumbra who, in turn, handed the baby to her to be sold in Mumbai,” Thakre said. Based on the information, a police team rushed to Mumbra and nabbed five women and one man from near Mumbra railway station. While four are natives of Ahmednagar, two are residents of Ulhasnagar.
 
 Further interrogation has revealed the child belonged to the arrested accused who had come to sell him. The rescued infant has been sent to a child care centre in Thane.
 
 “Bhabre seems to be the gang leader while the others are agents. She was initially a  , but later got into the child racket. She would basically look for illegitimate children. Agents were paid a commission of Rs 50,000 per child to identify buyers,” informed the officer.
 
 A case has been registered at Wagle Estate police station and the accused have been booked under various IPC sections, including 361 (kidnapping from lawful guardianship), 365 (kidnapping with intent to secretly and wrongfully confine a person), 368 (wrongfully concealing or keeping in confinement a kidnapped person) and 372 (selling minor for purposes of prostitution), and relevant provisions of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act.
 
