The former host and VJ is back with two gigs, one of which features her daughter.

 Former Veejay and TV show host,  , whose last gig as an anchor was the sixth season of   in 2012, is returning with two new shows for Youtube — a food series titled The Mini Truck which will have her celebrity friends cook dishes of their choice in a van, and another on travel in which Mini will be traversing through Europe with daughter  .
 
 The travel show, Mini Me, travels through Germany, France, Venice, Greece, Italy, Croatia, Monterrico and Spain in 25 days. "I did this show because Sairah is my second child and I feel I haven't spent enough one-on-one time with her. We returned from the trip as much better friends," she beams.
 
 The duo spent time with an old couple in a vineyard where they learnt how to make wine and cook. Sairah also stayed in a youth hostel because when she travels with her filmmaker-father,  , and mom, they live in luxury. "I wanted her to learn to live with less. In one city I even put her on a budget so she learns the value of money. We cycled across Germany, which was a tick off the bucket list," she informs excitedly.
 
 Was her Mini-me comfortable in front of the camera? "I didn't want an intrusive crew, Karishma Kohli, the director, has known Sairah since she was a baby. Every parent will connect with the show," she asserts.
 
 
  
 On the food show, Mini reveals that filmmaker-friend   has been urging her to show her cooking skills to the world and one day suggested that they work on the idea together. Since Kabir was working with Salman (Khan) at the time, Nikkhil suggested we get the actor to rustle up his favourite dish on camera. I've always been obsessed with the idea of a food truck, I watch all the food truck shows across America. So Nikkhil bought a bus, stripped it down, and Karishma who is Kabir's AD (assistant director) is directing this one too, and I decorated it with everything I had in my kitchen," she narrates. The show is being produced by Nikkhil along with Monisha Advani and Madhu Bhojwani.
 
 The weekly show will feature one Bollywood star in every episode. "Shah Rukh (Khan) is learning Italian cooking and I know other actors who cook too. It's an eight-minute episode with stars speaking about their comfort food, their travels and food from around the globe. They also cook two dishes of their choice or a family recipe. If they are good at cooking, I become their sous chef, if they don't know how, I turn chef. We have friends and directors dropping in just to see how the food has turned out," Mini laughs, adding that Kabir's sister, Anusha, who is married to director Victor Acharya, is curating the dishes.
 
 Does Kabir cook too, you wonder, and Mini admits he can rustle up an omelette, something really basic to survive on. "He's happy I'm doing this show because he gets to taste all these dishes," she signs off with a chuckle. 
 
 
 
  
 
