GAYA: Police have included four more districts in its drive against illegal  . After Gaya,  , Rohtas and Kaimur districts, the police have shifted its attention to Bhojpur, Buxar, Jahanabad and Nawada districts. 

 Sources said the sand mafia started running the clandestine business from Bhojpur, Buxar, Jahanabad and Nawada districts following sustained police raids on GT road in Gaya, Aurangabad, Rohtas and Kaimur districts. As a result, the police too joined the hide and seek game and seized 161 heavy vehicles from the four districts. With this, the number of total heavy vehicles seized so far has touched 796. Altogether 635 trucks have also been seized from GT Road since January 6 when the drive was launched.
 
 Zonal IG Nayyer Hasnain Khan said the drive would continue along the GT Road as well as the peripheral districts. “A sum of Rs 2 crore has so far been realised in fine from the erring persons,” he added. Rough estimates put the revenue loss caused to the state exchequer on account of the clandestine activities of sand, stone and coal mafia at about Rs 200 crore per annum.
 
 Sources said the zonal IG had recently submitted a report to DGP P K Thakur and principal home secretary Amir Subhani, stating that such a big racket could not have been possible without the connivance of field officials, including police, transport, commercial taxes, mines, forests and weight and measures officials.
 
 Besides causing loss to the exchequer, these excessively loaded heavy vehicles cause immense damage to the roads, which, in turn leads to road mishaps.
 
 The IG said departmental proceedings have been initiated against the SDPOs of Sherghati, Aurangabad Sadar, Mohania and Vikramganj. Altogether 14 SHOs deputed at police stations along the GT Road have been transferred on administrative grounds. Departmental proceedings have also been initiated against the SHOs, said Khan.
 
 The IG said two special investigation teams (SITs) have been constituted to investigate the offences, including financial crime committed by the sand and stone syndicate. The operators of these rackets hail from Bihar, Jharkhand and UP. The SITs will be headed by the SSPs of Gaya and Rohtas.
 
 District magistrates of Gaya, Aurangabad, Rohtas, Kaimur, Bhojpur, Buxar and Jehanabad have been asked to keep an eye on civil officials of the departments directly affected by the ongoing racket.
 
 
