PATNA: Acting on a tip-off, the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) sleuths arrested a youth from Bettiah Station Chowk in West Champaran and seized high quality fake Indian currency notes ( ) of Rs78,000 face value on Saturday.

 DRI sources said the FICN was of newly issued Rs2000 denomination and only three to four security features of the original currency were missing in the fake notes. Sources said the arrested youth was identified as Sojebul Sheikh (25), a native of Mohabbatnagar under Kaliachak police station area in Malda district of West Bengal.
 
 DRI sources said Sojebul told them that the FICN was brought from Islamabad in Pakistan to Dhaka from where it was finally brought to Nawabganj in Bangladesh, which is located close to Indo-Bangladesh border.
 
 Sources said Sojebul, along with his friend Mazhar Sheikh, first reached Patna from Malda by Farakka Express and later boarded a bus to Bettiah to deliver the consignment to a person.
 
 “The FICN smuggler said they had crossed international border and received the consignment from one Abdul Sheikh in Nawabganj a couple of days back and had paid Rs50,000 for the consignment,” sources said, adding that Sojebul was involved in the FICN smuggling racket for at least seven years and had good knowledge of the racket.
 
 They said Sojebul also told them that the exchange rate was Rs60,000 for fake currency of Rs1 lakh face value.
 
 Sojebul was arrested near Maithi Toll Plaza in Muzaffarpur district by the DRI in 2014 with fake currency of face value Rs3.98 lakh and had come out of jail on January 17 this year after which he again got involved in the FICN smuggling racket.
 
 DRI sources also said the FICN from Bettiah and other surrounding places in Bihar were being supplied to Delhi, Punjab and Chennai. They said smugglers pump in the FICN into the Indian economy by spending it in fish and vegetable markets and retail shops of rural areas.
 
 “The FICN seized on Saturday did not have the security features like colour changing capability and the bar codes could not be felt like in original currency,” they said, adding the water mark of Mahatma Gandhi was visible even without light. They said the paper quality was almost the same and a common man would not be able to easily identify the FICN at a glance.
 
 
