LUCKNOW: That is exactly how staff deployed at   felt when a   on Saturday gutted the second floor of the 17-year-old building.

 In what comes as a shocker,   have ignored six warnings to get the equipment examined by the fire department. The latest missive was sent out on June 23, after a minor fire incident which took place in the faculty of dental sciences. Before that, the   had sent five more notices to KGMU over the past two-and-a-half years.
 
 The ground-plus-fourstorey building is equipped with five firefighting measures, but none of them worked when flames began threatening the lives of patients and staffers.
 
 To top it all, it was realized during inquiries on Sunday that the reservoir meant to supply water to more than half a dozen fire   installed around the building was not connected to each of them. Smoke sensors installed in each section, corridor and portion of the building to set off alarms also failed to go off though thick smoke emanating from the building had disrupted traffic movement outside.
 
 Three water outlets had been set up on each floor but firemen had to rely on their own tenders.Even circuit breakers deployed to disrupt power supply to different sections failed to work.Sprinklers were not found in major portions of the building.
 
 Only one gate was being used for entry and exit for a while even when flames were raging. The store room contained no equipment, tools or resource to contain the flames. Untrained staff did not know how to operate fire extinguishers. The last fire drill had taken place almost four years ago.
 
 Saturday's fire-fighting operation lasted for about four hours, and 24 tenders had to be rushed at the spot.Though firemen and KGMU staff members participated in the rescue and evacuation operation bravely, chief fire officer Abhay Bhan Pandey said lapses had been highlighted in the report to be submitted to the government for compliance.
 
 KGMU administration admitted to lapses such as a malfunctioning fire alarm.
 
 “In the first place, the “In the first place, the fire alarm did not go off. We are analysing the entire situation. There will cer tainly be a probe in this re gard,“ Kgmu vice-chancellor Prof M L B Bhatt told reporters.
 
