Gurgaon:   in Haryana, including in Gurgaon, are in for a major facelift and makeover with modern facilities. Apart from this, Gurgaon is set to have 10 new police stations, the   government has announced.

 In a meeting on police welfare on Sunday at recruit training centre, Sunaria, the Haryana DGP Dr K P Singh announced that ageing wooden chairs and shabby benches in police stations will give way to sofa sets, LED TVs and water coolers with RO.
 
 With the approval for new police stations, 750 new police personnel, including 140 women cops, will be joining the Gurgaon police force by the end of this month.
 
 Exactly two years ago, on April 11, 2015, former Gurgaon police commissioner Navdeep Singh Virk had sent a proposal to the state government for 10 new police stations. Virk had claimed there was an urgent need for new police stations because the norms stated that a new police station should be set up in a region where annually more than 1,000 FIRs are registered.Finally, after two years, the government has sent its approval. At present, there are 25 police stations in Gurgaon district, with 3,782 personnel. The number of sanctioned posts is around 5,000, but there is a shortage of over 1,100 staff in different ranks.
 
 As per the new plan, four police stations will come up in sectors 50, 37, 53 and 7, and Manesar. Six existing police outposts, at Khandsa road, Sector 9A, New Colony, Bajghera, Sector 14 and Sohna city, will be upgraded to police stations. In addition, new stations are due in Sector 50 and will cover half the area of Sadar police station, while ones in sectors 7 and 14 will cover a large part of the area under City police station.
 
 “Approval has been received from the home department for opening 10 new police stations, and we think these additions will be a great resource. They will be notified in the next two days. We are looking at land and reviewing other aspects,” said police commissioner Sandeep Khirwar.
 
 On the new facilities for existing police stations, commissioner Khirwar said the DGP has declared in the meeting that water coolers with RO, LED TV sets with DTH, and sofa sets will be installed in every police station in the state. The budget will be decided by later police headquarters, he added.
 
 
