PANAJI: The   or the four-laning of the NH 17 (66) passing through Goa, once completed, will enable commuters to travel between 80 and 100kmph, as against the current 50 to 60 kmph. The four-laning, work on which has already begun in some areas in Goa, involves widening of the NH 17 from  , south of Mumbai to Kochi in Kerala.

 This four-laning will include the roads passing through the villages of Torxem, Tamboxem, Uguem, Poroscodem, Caznem, Pernem, Virnoda, Dhargalim, Colvale, Mapusa, Bastora, Guirim, Porvorim, Panaji, Santa Cruz, Bambolim, Siridao, Palem, Cortalim, Nagoa, Verna, Nuvem, Fatorda, Margao, Navelim, Sirlim, Chinchinim, Panzorconi, Cuncolim, Canacona, Maxem and Polem.
 
 To avoid conflict of the traffic flow at crossroads on the four-lane stretch, the project will also involve construction of around 15 vehicular underpasses, one overpass, a flyover and six elevated corridors. One elevated corridor will come up to segregate the traffic coming from the Dabolim airport road and that from the Verna Industrial Estate.
 
 This project will exclude the Zuari bridge, the Mandovi bridge, the Margao bypass and the Canacona bypass, work on which is already on under other projects.
 
 The project highway will link the states of Maharashtra, Goa and Karnataka starting at Patradevi on the Maharashtra-Goa border to Polem on the Goa-Karnataka border, which will be of a total length of 135.96 km.
 
 The current NH 17 is two-laned and after widening will have two carriageways of two-lanes each. The four-laning has been designed after the consultants for the project considered the   upto 2030. As per plans, these roads are likely to be converted to six laned ones post 2030.
 
 Project Highway will also include structure improvements, including widening, repair and reconstruction/new construction of bridges on the stretch of 135.96km. Wherever minor bridges are proposed to be widened, the existing railing will be replaced with RCC crash barrier and existing pipe culverts smaller than 900mm will be replaced with 1200mm diameter pipe culverts. As the existing alignment in Karmal ghat stretch has sub-standard horizontal and vertical curves for an around 582km stretch, a realignment with a 1.45 km length of tunnel is proposed.
 
 
