BENGALURU: The   is all set to implement its decision to increase the   of private sector employees from 58 to 60 years on May 1 or earlier, notwithstanding private companies' reported move to challenge the measure.

 “The government will issue a gazette notification that will benefit at least 45 lakh private sector employees,“ said additional chief secretary (labour)  . The new rule covers companies set up under the   Factories Act of 1948 and Karnataka Shops and Commercial Establishments Act of 1961.
 
 The decision is not applicable to hundreds of information technology and bio technology companies as they enjoy exemption from the labour act. Also, companies which have less than 50 employees are also exempt.
 
 Kumar said: “The Karnataka cabinet has approved the draft notification and sent the measure to the chief minister and labour minister for final ratification. Once they give the green signal to the notification, we will issue a government order.This can happen anytime.“ Sources in the chief minister's office said discussions are now only about the date of implementation: April 1 or May 1.
 
 The government is in favour of May 1 to coincide its pro-workers' measure with International Labour Day , but trade unions are urging the CM to bring it into force on April 1 so that more employees benefit. Kumar said he was unper turbed by private companies' plan to challenge the decision on retirement age since the government had “duly followed“ all processes and given companies enough time to file their objections. “We took the decision to up the retirement age after considering the suggestions and objections we received from private companies, employees and trade unions on the draft notification issued in 2009,'' he added.
 
 Companies cannot ignore the retirement order since it will be the law of the land. The bureaucrat said: “The department will initiate legal action and employees, too, have an option to move court and seek compensation if companies set up under Karnataka Factories Act, 1948, and Karnataka Shops and Commercial Establishments Act, 1961, force them to retire at 58 years,“ he added.
 
 Sources said the government is looking to woo private sector employees, especially labourers, ahead of the 2018 polls.A source said: “The CM is under pressure from certain lcompanies -from the garment sector, in particular -to postpone or refrain from issuing the final notification.''
 
