BATHINDA: Moga mayor Akshit Jain survived a no-confidence motion on Friday, after no councillor of the 50-member MC House turned up to pursue it. 

 Akshit and municipal corporation officials, including commissioner  , waited for 30 minutes and then marked the motion as quashed and defeated. Akshit is son of Shiromani Akali Dal’s (SAD’s) former MLA Joginderpal Jain.
 
 Sources said as Joginderpal was a Congress MLA before joining SAD in 2013, he succeeded in winning over opposition councillors, including independents, to help his son survive the motion. Three days after the Punjab assembly elections on February 7, 35 of the 50 councillors of Moga, cutting across party lines, had started the move to oust Akshit. Councillors, including those from SAD, had given the requisition notice to the commissioner for convening a meeting where they could table motion against the mayor.
 
 The move, said to be the fallout of a rivalry between former agriculture minister Tota Singh and Joginderpal, was forwarded to Election Commission due to the imposition of the model code of conduct on account of assembly polls. “On March 9 again, councillors gave a requisition. But after SAD lost power to Congress, things started moving to the other side,” said sources.
 
 Akshit was elected as the first mayor of Moga in 2014, even though SAD-BJP councillors owing allegiance to Tota wanted someone else for the top post. SAD-BJP combine has 23 councillors in the House, and more than 10 independent councillors are supporting the party.
 
 Akshit said a meeting to take up the no-confidence motion was initially convened on March 22, but councillors opposed it saying it was called on a short notice without giving a 48-hour notice. “It was taken up on Friday, but no councillor turned up as most of them have lent me support. The motion has been defeated,” he said. 
 
 Newly elected Moga MLA Harjot Kamal of the Congress said the motion call internal wrangling of the SAD. “We remained away from the tussle,” Kamal said.
 
 Moga MC commissioner Harcharan Singh said the report of the motion being quashed would be sent to higher authorities. “As of now, Akshit is the mayor,” he said.
 
