AURANGABAD: The   ( ) on Monday announced   passing from Aurangabad and other cities in Marathwada.

 The trains were launched for the convenience of pilgrims attending the 805th annual Urs festival to be held in April first week at Ajmer. The Hyderabad-Ajmer- Hyderabad Urs   is one of the specials that will be pressed into service for the benefit of passengers, an official release said.
 
 One train will depart from Hyderabad at 3.15pm on March 31 and reach Ajmer on at 5.15am on April 1. On its return journey, the Ajmer-Hyderabad special train will leave Ajmer at 9.55am on April 6 and arrive Hyderabad at 11.15pm.
 
 These special trains will halt Nanded, Purna, Parbhani, Selu, Jalna, Aurangabad, Manmad and Jalgaon stations in both the directions. The trains will have 17 coaches including, two AC III Tier coaches, 13 sleeper class coaches, two general second class and second class luggage-cum-brake van coaches each.
 
 The SCR has also started a Nanded-Ajmer Urs special train for the benefit of devotees. The train will depart from Nanded 4pm on April 1 and reach Ajmer at 10pm on April 2. While returning, the train will depart from Ajmer at 7.20pm on April 6 and arrive Nanded at 10.45pm on April 7. These special trains will halt at Purna, Basmat, Hingoli, Washim, Akola, Shegaon, Malkapur, Bhusaval, Jalgaon and Nandurbar, among other stations on both the directions. It will have 17 coaches including two AC III tier, eight sleeper class, three general second class and two second class luggage-cum-brake van coaches.
 
 The third such service to be started is the   special train. The train will depart from Kacheguda at 8.40pm on March 31 and arrive at Ajmer at 7.25am April 2. On its return, the train will depart from Ajmer at 7.25pm on April 5 and arrive at Kacheguda at 7.30am on April 7. It will pass via Nanded, Purna, Basmat, Hingoli, Washim and Akola among other stations.
 
 The trains will have 15 coaches, including one AC III Tier, eight sleeper class, four general second class and two second class luggage-cum-brake van coaches.
 
