While the pre-release event of Megastar Chiranjeevi's 150th, 'Khaidi No 150' was talk of the town, it was none other than the veteran's younger brother, Naga Babu, who took the audience and fans by surprise. While Ram Charan and director Dasari Narayana Rao were seen brushing up on stage, given that they had had a controversy back then, the remarks of Naga Babu on Ram Gopal Varma and writer Yandamoori Veerendranath sparked quite a controversy. The event was held amidst strict security guidelines and the mega heroes, including Allu Arjun and Ram Charan kept their speeches sharp and on point, Naga Babu went over to vent his anguish over comments made by both- Ram Gopal Varma and Yandamoori. His speech shocked quite a many and left the fans clueless as his words and phrases were derogatory and sharp. Aiming RGV, he said, "Akkupakshi Kuthalu, panikimalina Sannasi vadi matalu makem kavu. Mundu cinemalu teyadam nerchuko" and " Vadu Kuthalu apu chesi darsakathvam (direction) sakramanga cheskoni ah bomb edo Bombay lo pelchukunte vadiki manchidi maku manchidi" and went on to say that people are commenting Chiranjeevi only to gain popularity. Also, Naga Babu referred Yandamoori Veerendranath as "Murkhudu" and suggested that he seek some personality development for himself rather than bestowing it to others. "Vadiki common sense emi ledu. Vadu nerchukovali mundu. Kondarini undermine chesetuvanti Kusamskaram vadidi" incited the actor. Meanwhile, RGV took the entire incident in his stride and came back wittly as ever. A series of tweets on RGV's Twitter handle amused the followers of the event. A series of tweets from the director read, "
God gave so many positives to chiranjeevigaari's family like Pawan,Charan,Sai Dharam ,Varun, Bunny nd to balance he gave Naga Babu gaaru.I sincierley apologise to all chiranjeevigaari's fans for the inconvenience caused by Naga Babu ..I apologise on his behalf too..sorry! Chiranjeevigaaru u also know that only to kaakafy u he talks like that and damages u and only because he's brother u tolerate..SAD.Chiranjeevigaaru for what all u did to him the minimum Naga Babu Saar can do for u is do nothing because only his nothing is better.Chiranjeevigaaru as fan I want to caution that ur damager will always b ur nearest one and I know that u are intelligent enf to know this.Chiranjeevigaaru u achieved by urself nd u in heart know he did nothing except things like spoiling great events like 150..I feel sad for u.hiranjeevi gaaru u should not let ur love for an incompetent brother spoil the greatness of ur being and the greatness of ur achievements.Chiranjeevi gaaru I know he is ur brother nd u love him but in future please don't take him to such prestigious events as he will spoil them.Naga Babu Saar it's better u concentrate on pleasing ur brothers instead of wasting on akkupakshulu or u might be on roads..All the best.Naga Babu saar many families ran becos of my career nd ur career runs only becos of ur brother's family.. if u want I can tweet more on this, (sic)" and ohhh, there is no stopping on this. Finally, the director ended the fire spitting gesture by posting some quotes related to family relationships.
