LUCKNOW: Hours after it approached the   in Delhi to stake claim to the Samajwadi Party and its  , the   faction was back on the negotiating table with party patriarch   Singh Yadav on Tuesday, keeping political circles agog with possibilities of a truce between the two sides.

 The three-hour meeting, which began between Mulayam and Akhilesh with Shivpal joining them after returning from Delhi, remained inconclusive. Although the Akhilesh camp agreed to a re-engagement, there was no visible softening of stance. However, the very fact that they had agreed to meet was seen as a last-ditch effort by the two sides to save the party symbol from being frozen by the Election Commission -- an eventuality that could seriously undermine their poll performance.
 
 The fear of SP losing its election symbol was echoed by party’s Muslim face and minister in the Akhilesh cabinet and an old-time Mulayam man, Mohammed Azam Khan. He said Muslims in UP, who constitute 19% of the electorate and who had sided with SP in the 2012 assembly polls, identify themselves with the party symbol. The subtext was its absence in elections could hurt SP’s prospects. “The minorities want the SP government to continue in UP,” Azam told reporters in Delhi.
 
 SP sources said the Akhilesh camp was unwilling to compromise on his anoinment as the party president and being the arbiter of ticket distribution, while the Mulayam camp was adamant that Shivpal be accommodated in the party, at par with Akhilesh. Later in the evening, Mulayam and Shivpal had another round of meeting which lasted at 11 pm. The two reportedly discussed the eventuality of going for a parallel preparation for the elections. Meanwhile, Azam announced that he would meet Mulayam on Wednesday to make on last attempt for a rapprochement. 
 
 Earlier in the day, Ram Gopal Yadav, the architect of the coup who has sided with Akhilesh, dismissed reports of any truce. “UP CM Akhilesh Yadav is the president of the Samajwadi Party and we have already informed the Election Commission about it,” he told reporters in Delhi.
 
 His approach led to some top SP officials saying that his role has to be curbed for there to be a lasting truce before elections in the politically crucial state.
 
 Earlier in the day, Ram Gopal led a team, comprising vice-president Kiranmoy Nanda and RS member Naresh Agarwal, to meet EC officials to stake claim to the party and the symbol.
 
 
