BHUBANESWAR: The move by the   to   of those responsible for   here seems to have done little to enthuse the citizens. They doubt whether it would check the   in the  .

 "We can understand that the police can mount surveillance on hotels, guest houses and beauty parlours. But what about residential houses and apartments where such immoral activities take place unabated? How will the police check the offence in residential houses?" asked Bijay Mishra, a resident of Nayapalli.
 
 In almost all such cases of sex trade busted in residential buildings, the owners of the houses stayed outside. To keep anti-socials at bay, the commissionerate police had in 2014-15 made it mandatory for house owners to submit details of their tenants to the police stations. But so far none has complied with the order and neither the owners have been taken to task. 
 
 The police passed the buck to the home owners. "It is not possible for us to check each and every house, though we often raided residential buildings after receiving tip-offs from our sources. Landlords stay outside and get monthly rent in their bank accounts. Houses located on the outskirts and in isolated places are vulnerable to immoral activities," a police officer said. 
 
 The busting of a sex racket in a plush apartment in Chandrasekharpur area last March and the subsequent rescue of a Kyrgyz woman from the prostitution ring raised question about the efficacy of the police to check the menace in apartments where neighbours hardly know what is happening the next door. 
 
 In 2011, the police started the process of holding interaction with people residing in apartments, but it discontinued after two years. 
 
 What seems to have stumped the police is that in some cases the accused people and pimps would get back to the lucrative business of flesh trade despite spending months in jail. 
 
 Sunil Meher is considered the most notorious sex racketeer by the police. A repeat offender, he has been arrested at least eight times since 2010. In August last year, the police had filed a chargesheet against him for allegedly forcing the Kyrgyz woman into prostitution. At present he is out on bail. 
 
 "We keep a close watch on hotels and guest houses. Since Bhubaneswar is expanding by leaps and bounds and is witnessing growth in different spheres, pimps look for opportunities to earn a quick buck through flesh trade. We urge house owners to properly verify the antecedents of their tenants and keep a vigilant eye on their activities," DCP Satyabrata Bhoi said.
 
 
