HYDERABAD: In addition to 1,900 trees around the KBR Park, the state government's much-hyped Strategic Road Development Plan (SRDP), which aims to decongest traffic in the IT corridor, will eat into precious green cover at many locations in Hi-Tec Hyderabad as well.

 Two years after an in principal approval was given to the project, which was conceptualized based on the findings of the `Comprehensive Transportation Study for Hyderabad Metropolitan Area-2041', work on construction of a 1.23-km long flyover between Forum Sujana Mall and   in the JNTU area in Kukatpally has now been kickstarted. Residents here are ruing how while small plants and trees have already been lopped off, bigger trees that are located on the median will soon vanish to make way for the  's (GHMC) road de velopment project. “While work has begun at one end, with many small plants and trees being felled near Forum Sujana Mall in Kukatpally to make space for pillars, at the JNTU side, the trees that will be cut to make way for the project are much older and bigger in size. The IT corridor is already a concrete jungle where there is a dearth of lung spaces. The state government must consider translocating these trees instead,“ said Kiran Kolli, a techie and resident of Ku katpally. According to officials of the GHMC's engineering wing, a multi-level flyover will come up at   while an underpass will be constructed at the Ayappa Society Junction. Mindspace Junction, meanwhile, will get an underpass and a flyover.
 
 “The work on construction of flyovers at four locations has already begun. Trees that fall on the median at these junctions will likely be felled. These will mostly comprise of ornamental tre es. The   has already given permissions for axing these trees in April last year,“ said R Sreedhar, chief engineer (Projects), GHMC.
 
 According to residents of Cyberabad, even as the area continues to grapple with the issue of receding green cover and soaring temperatures, the GHMC is now on a `spree to axe' whatever precious green cover is left standing along the IT belt. Right outside the Lingampally MMTS station, for instance, the GHMC has felled a huge tree, which is more than seven-years old, because it `obstructed' the smooth flow of traffic.
 
 N R Sangeetha, forest range officer, Chilkur, who carried out an investigation into the issue, post receiving complaints from citizens, said, “Upon investigation, I have found that officials of the Miyapur traffic police had informed the GHMC about the tree obstructing traffic, post which the GHMC went ahead and lopped it off.“
 
