Surat: Union minister of heavy industries, Anant Geete will lay the foundation stone of south Gujarat’s first common engineering facility centre (CEFC) for textile machinery and allied engineering industry at Bardoli on Sunday.  The CEFC will come up on five acres of land at Faculty of Engineering Technology and Research (FETR) at Bardoli, some 35 kilometres away from Surat. The centre will be constructed at the cost of Rs 50 crore by Science Engineering and Technological Upliftment (SETU) foundation with the support of local industry associations like Surat Engineering Vikas Association (SEVA), Textile Machinery Manufacturers Association of India (TMMAI) and Sardar Vallabhai Patel Education Society, Bardoli.  In December-2016, SETU foundation had signed an MoU with department of heavy industries, ministry of heavy industries and public enterprises, Government of India for setting up of the CEFC at Bardoli. The facility would enable textile machinery and other capital goods manufacturers to develop capital goods to meet the large requirements and improve capacity utilization, thereby reducing the variable cost of operation. Chairman of SETU, Hetal Mehta told TOI, “This is basically a product development-cum-training centre for upgrading our technology and quality of production, matching the global standards. This facility will help the MSME units in south Gujarat to improve their quality of products and efficiency with the use of advance engineering.”  The centre will provide facilities like product and prototype development, product and machine design boutique, skill development and training, material testing and calibration and heat treatment unit.  SETU has tied up with France-based software company Top Solid Design Software whose 95 per cent of the softwares are used in aviation and ship building sectors worldwide. The company will provide software development support at the centre.  The key objectives behind the CEFC is to develop prototype product, training and industry institute interaction, design support for critical component of textile and general machineries, automation consultancy for improving process efficiency and material testing and instrument calibration facilities. Mehta said, “Technology gap in India is more than 40 years compared to the rest of the developed countries. Through this centre, our aim is to help narrow down the gap and provide up-to-date and modern engineering products for the textile and engineering sectors.”  South Gujarat does not have testing and calibration centre and there is no laboratory for mechanical testing. For even a small testing, the textile machinery manufacturers and engineering firms have to visit either Mumbai or Ahmedabad. Now, the centre at Bardoli will provide all the testing and calibration-related facilities. 