MUMBAI: The  's (EC) request to RBI to enhance cash withdrawal limits for candidates in upcoming polls has not met with a positive response. So will this impact campaigning? Well, aspirants in   are already facing stumbling blocks in mobilizing crowds or organizing neighbourhood outreach.

 The BMC elections are scheduled to be held on February 21. Both veteran candidates and first-timers said the cash crunch has sapped campaigning of its vigour.
 
 A two-time corporator from Andheri, who's back in the fray , said usual fawning crowds of `karyakartas' (mostly paid ones) gathered outside a candidate's office are missing this time, so are the social dos which candidates would host, such as a cricket tournament or a `sarvajanik pooja' with gifts thrown in. “This time it is ve ry dull. There's no liquid cash available,“ he said. Candidates claim that much of the campaigning requires petty cash payments to karyakartas who accompany them on door-to-door voter visits or for interactions with resident associations in various localities.
 
 “Most people think a candidate is promising if there are crowds following him. For this, we need to get in workers. A single `karyakarta' is paid between Rs 300-400 on an average and payments have always been done in cash, but since we want to conserve whatever cash we have, paying them is a hassle. Apart from that, one needs to make food and travel arrangements for these people as well,“ said a candidate.
 
 While cash-for-votes in slum pockets is a fact, a senior corporator said voters in some upscale areas are not beyond seeking favours eit her. “For example, a member of a housing society in my ward asked me to fix one of their elevators. Another society asked me to bring them a water cooler. Now I will have to refrain from such expenses as the cash in hand is proving to be insufficient,“ said the corporator.
 
 The official limit of spending in the civic polls does not help matters either, say contenders. Every candidate is expected to maintain a separate current account to show how money was spent. Some say propaganda material alone requires a lot of funds; many end up understating expenditure to avoid being disqualified.
 
 Some aspirants said they were finding ways to avoid dealing in cash wherever possible. “I have informed the restaurant which supplies tea and snacks that I will settle his bills via cheques at the end of the month,“ said a corporator who plans to contest as an `independent'.
 
 
 
 
 The Election Commission on Tuesday doubled the expenditure limits for the forthcoming civic polls. Candidates from Mumbai can now spend up to Rs 10 lakh instead of Rs 5 lakh earlier. In the 2012 polls, the spending limit was Rs 1.35 lakh.
 
 For the municipal corporations that have more than members, aspirants can spend up to Rs 10 lakh, while those whose members are between 116 to 150 the limit is Rs 8 lakh.Where the number of members are between 86 and 115, the figure is Rs 7 lakh. An corporation with members between 65 and 85, the limit is Rs 5 lakh. The order to this effect has been issued by the state election commission undersecretary, NJ Wagle.
 
 In the zilla parishad elections, the spending limit is from Rs 4 lakh to Rs 6 lakh depending on the number of members. 
 
