BENGALURU: Scaling up the political ladder is turning out to be an all-from-the-family affair in Congress in Karnataka. A pointer to this is the   polls, where a majority of the newly elected office bearers are kin of senior party leaders.

 Basanagouda Badarli, who got elected as the state youth Congress president on Sunday with a margin of 16,000 votes, is the nephew of Sindhanur MLA Hampanna Gouda Badarli. The junior Badarli had been actively involved in Youth Congress activities and was one of the aspirants for Congress ticket from Koppal parliamentary constituency in 2014. He has been the district chief of   for two terms.
 
 Badarli’s closest rival in the Youth Congress polls was K N Rajendra, son of Madhugiri MLA Rajanna. The newly elected vice-presidents are K Kemparaju (said to be close to energy minister D K Shiva Kumar), Sumaiya Tabrez and K N Rajendra.
 
 Speaking to TOI on Sunday, Badarli said his immediate priority would be to disseminate the government’s programmes to people. “I want the Youth Congress to be seen more than a wing which is visible only during protests. I will be using the social media to highlight Youth Congress’ activities,” he added. Party sources said everyone had expected Rajendra to give Badarli a tough fight. The runner-ups automatically become the vice-presidents, with Kemparaju the first vice-president.
 
 On charges of rigging in some districts, outgoing president and MLC Rizwan Arshad said there were three or four cases and disciplinary action has been taken.
 
 Elections for the Youth Congress president, three vice-presidents and 11 general secretaries and other office bearers for the state, district and city committees were held from May 14 to 16. The total number of voters were 1.44 lakh and counting went on till early hours of Sunday. The polls turned into a tough battle, more so because it was held against the backdrop Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi’s pro-youth emphasis. 
 
 In fact, the city and district committees have seen the rise of the relatives of Congress leaders. Former AICC general secretary B K Hariprasad’s nephew Rakshit Shivaram and transport minister R Ramalinga Reddy’s daughter   have been elected vice-presidents of  .
 
 Minister for planning and statistics M R Seetharam’s son Raksha Seetharam has been elected vice-president of Bengaluru Urban District Youth Congress unit, and Shantinagar MLA N A Haris’ son Mohammed Nalpad the general secretary. In Hassan district, animal husbandry minister A Manju’s son Manthar Gowda has been elected the chief.
 
