BHOPAL: Roti with dishwater — that is the staple given to Indian prisoners in Pakistani jails, says  , who is back home in Balaghat, Madhya Pradesh, after spending 10 months in captivity.

 “We got one roti for breakfast and two each for lunch and dinner. Pleasing Pakistani prisoners was the only way to get some food, which included giving them regular massages. Only Indians were made to clean toilets while Pakistani prisoners always had first right to use them,” Uikey told TOI on Friday.
 
 Sunil was arrested along with 55 Indian fishermen by   (PMSA) for allegedly violating its territorial waters on the Arabian Sea off Jakhau coast on March 29, 2016. He was on one of 10 boats that had set sail from Gujarat’s Okha and Mangroal port, said an intelligence officer.
 
 There was no physical torture, he said, but life in prison was horrible. Indian prisoners were served dry rotis with dishwater and made to work while Pakistani convicts cooled their heels, he says.
 
 Uikey’s family in Paraswada had no clue where he was until his uncle Shivlal Inwati got a letter from him in May last year. “Ma, this may be the last letter from me, but please keep writing to me. Eat well, and take good care of yourself. If everything goes well I will be home soon…” This was scribbled on a piece of paper.
 
 The family clung to hope. From Malir jail in Karachi, Uikey and the other Indians were put on a train to Lahore and handed over to Indian authorities at the Wagah border a few days ago as a goodwill gesture. “We are overjoyed that he is back home,” said Anil, his elder brother. But he is worried for his friends, including a boat captain, who are still in Pakistan jail.“Food was the main problem in Pak jail, rest was okay. We are happy that at least he is back home,” said Anil, Sunil’s elder brother.====
 
 Bhopal: “We got one roti for breakfast and two each for lunch and dinner. Pleasing Pakistani prisoners was the only way to get some food which included giving them regular massages. Cleaning toilets are exclusive responsibility of Indians while Pakistani prisoners always had first right to use them” – says Sunil Uikey, who reached his home in Balaghat district of Madhya Pradesh on Wednesday.
 
 He refused any physical torture on the Indian prisoners and said that some of his friends including a boat Capitan were still in Pakistan jail as their names were missing from the list of 220 Indian fishermen who were released by Pakistan as a goodwill gesture amid strain in ties after the recent cross border terror incidents.
 
 Sunil reveals Indian prisoners were served dry rotis with dishwater and the prison has to be kept clean by Indians while Pakistani inmates cool their heels. From Malir jail in Karachi, Uikey and other Indian prisoners boarded train to Lahore and were handed over to Indian authorities at the Wagah border. 
 
 Sunil was arrested along with 55 Indian fishermen by Pakistan Marine Security Agency (PMSA) for allegedly violating its territorial waters at the Arabian Sea off Jakhau coast on March 29, 2016. He was on one of 10 boats, PMSA alleges, were operating near the International Boundary Line (IMBL). Majority of these boats were from Okha and Mangroal ports of Gujarat. Sunil had gone for a job in Gujarat in 2015. He was on board a boat named Rundra Raj that set sail for a fishing trip on March 14 from Okha port, said an intelligence official.
 
 “Food was the main problem in Pak jail, rest was okay. We are happy that atleast he is back home from Pakistan,” says Anil, his elder brother.
 
 Sunil Uikey of Paraswada area in state’s Maoist-hit district had gone missing from Gujarat two months ago. His family was clueless about his whereabouts till his uncle Shivlal Inwati, received the handwritten letter addressed to his mother from Malir jail, Karachi.
 
 “Mother, this may be the last letter from me, but please keep writing to me. Eat well, and take good care of yourself. If everything goes well I will be home soon,” — these were a few words scribbled on a piece of paper for his mother in Balaghat district of Madhya Pradesh from a prison in Pakistan.
 
 Meanwhile Jitendra Arjunwar, who hails from Seoni district and had dug his way to Pakistan through the barbed wire on the Rajasthan border in search of water, is in the same jail for the last three years. Arjunwar was arrested by the   on August 12, 2013. His lawyer Ali Plah had told TOI that Pakistan is treating him with compassion, convinced by his defence on trespass charges and would release him soon. Arjunwar, who had travelled unchecked 35km inside Pakistan, was arrested just a few km from the Sindh Cantonment. They handed him over to Khokhrapar police in Umerkot district of Sindh, where he was charged under the Foreigner’s Act. His family has not heard from him for long.
 
 
