SRINAGAR/PITHORAGARH: Addressing his final two rallies in Uttarakhand before the state goes to the polls on February 15, Prime Minister   on Sunday raised the emotive issue of national pride in the context of the surgical strikes.
 
  “While the world’s security agencies are studying about the methods of our armed forces and how they conducted the surgical strikes, some people are questioning the entire exercise. They are saying why is it that if the strikes happened, not a single of our soldiers died. My response to them is -- attack me if you want to, but don’t ever question the integrity of our armed forces.”
  
  Like in his earlier two rallies, the PM fiercely attacked the   government by claiming that “dev bhoomi (land of gods) had become loot bhhomi (land of plunder) where “mining, liquor and transfer postings had become industries to loot the state.”
  
  During his almost hour-long speech at Srinagar in Pauri Garhwal, the venue of the first rally, Modi also blamed Rawat for stalling the state’s development. He hit out at the Congress accusing it of opposing Uttarakhand's creation and said that in an about-turn, the party has now aligned with SP in UP. “The Congress leaders remained silent when   wreaked havoc in Rampur Tiraha during the statehood agitation when women were raped and bullets were fired at innocents. The same   has joined hands with SP now in UP .”
  
  Asking voters to support BJP’s candidates in all the eight assembly constituencies of Pauri district, Modi said, “I will take special care of Uttarakhand because it is now 16 years old and at an important juncture. A lot of development needs to done so that migration ends forever and everyone gets opportunity and facilities in the hills.”
  
  While raising the issue of migration in Pithoragarh, the PM quipped that even CM Harish Rawat had migrated from Dharchula in Pithoragarh district in an apparent reference to the CM contesting from seats in the plains this time and not Dharchula, his earlier seat.
  
  In an apparent attempt to connect with the region’s substantial defence population, Modi spoke about his government’s implementation of OROP and enumerated various steps taken for the personnel from the armed forces including empanelling more than 500 hospitals across the country for their treatment. He claimed that the state government had been sitting on various hydro power projects worth Rs 42,000 crore in Tehri and Pancheswar. “The state government does not have planning, understanding and intention and wants to do nothing.”
