HYDERABAD: Panjagutta police arrested three for kidnapping and extorting Rs 10 lakh cash and gold from the granddaughter of Hyderabad’s first police commissioner. The offenders posed as Task Force police to rob the 61-year-old woman. The arrested accused included Joseph Philips D’Çruz, 48, D Brahma Prakash, 39, and D Prakash Babu, 36, all businessmen from Secunderabad.

 On December 27, 2016, the accused had kidnapped R Jayanthi, granddaughter of Hyderabad’s first police commissioner Vijaya Rangam Naidu from her office at Somajiguda and let her off after extorting Rs 10 lakh money and gold ornaments. The offenders also took away the victim’s passport and some blank cheques.
 
 The victim, who lives with her 82-year-old ailing mother Urmila, had lodged a complaint with the Panjagutta police on February 7, 2017. During the investigation, police found out that Joseph along with the victim, Jayanthi, launched a private security firm,   at Somajiguda. Joseph was Jayanthi’s business partner and also assisted her in personal work.
 
 Jayanthi was worried about her mother’s health and started consulting various priests and seers to perform special pujas. “In the guise of helping Jayanthi, Joseph recorded her voice conversation with some priests. Subsequently, he gave the recordings to his associates, asking them to pose as police and   Jayanthi by alleging that she was planning to perform black magic,” Panjagutta ACP M Venkateswarulu said.
 
 As per the plan, on December 27, posing as Task Force sleuths from Vijayawada, Brahma Prakash and Prakash Babu entered Jayanthi’s office and showed her the CDs containing the voice recordings. “The duo threatened to arrest Jayanthi and forcibly took her in a car to Chaderghat. They demanded Rs 50 lakh to not arrest her,” the ACP said.
 
 Jayanthi transferred Rs 10 lakh from her HDFC and Andhra Bank accounts to the accused. They then took her home and took gold ornaments and six blank cheques from her. 
 
 As the accused were demanding more money, she lodged a complaint with the cops. 
 
 Police recovered, Rs 4.25 lakh cash, 5.4 tola gold, a Swift car, Micromax phone and the passport from the possession of the accused.
 
