NEW DELHI: In a unique event, the   in Delhi said thank you to individuals and organisations for having assisted the people of   at various times of distress in the capital. Students, parliamentarians from the region and community leaders gathered at the Constitution Club on Wednesday to “open our hearts and reach out to Delhi”, as police officer Robin Hibu put it.

 The good Samaritans who were honoured included airlines IndiGo and Vistara which ferried bodies of deceased Northeasterners home for free, doctors such as Prof Poonam Causic and Milo Tabin who helped to create dedicated blood banks, men in charge of crematoria and graveyards like Kuldeep Singh Channa and CM Satyabalan who ensured a dignified last rite for straitened people and also coaching centres that pushed students from the Northeast into becoming civil servants.
 
 Joint commissioner of police Robin Hibu, who heads NGO Helping Hands, organiser of the event, said that until the community extended its arm of friendship, others would not be able to come forward and grip it. “Through this event, we are extending that hand. You, my Delhi friends, should also embrace us,” said the Delhi Police officer.
 
 The event was attended by over 500 people, the majority of them youngsters proudly donning traditional scarves, headgear and tribal coats. Present to honour the recipients were familiar faces like boxer MC Mary Kom and union minister of home affairs Kiren Rijiju. Rijiju said, “While thanking these heroes on behalf of the Northeast and the government, there must also be countless unrecognised others who have tried to bring us Indians together. A big thank you from the heart to them too.” He added that though there were cases of discrimination, it would not be proper to paint everyone as anti-Northeast.
 
 This sentiment was reciprocated by 65-year-old Channa when he said, “People from the Northeast are our own too.” As the man in charge of the Punjabi Bagh crematorium, Channa has helped organise the funeral rites for over 30 people from the region, among them some whose families couldn’t afford to have the bodies flown home. 
 
 At the function, a book titled “Northeast: the Land of Rising Opportunities” on investment possibilities for young entrepreneurs was also released. This was followed by the launch of the movie Kasak, whose theme is the racist violence faced by the community across the country.
 
 A Delhi University student summed up the day by saying, “Yes, there are challenges but events like these help youngsters believe that such challenges can be overcome together.” It wasn’t surprising that the entire crowd joined in the valedictory lyrics, Michael Jackson’s “Heal the world, make it a better place, for you and for me, and the entire human race”.
 
