 and   launched the trailer of their 
  ‘Badrinath Ki Dulhania’ amid much fanfare and in the presence of their mentor   in Mumbai. 

 Alia Bhatt looked lovely in a traditional red number and Varun Dhawan looked dapper sporting a Kurta and Nehru jacket. The two are all set to come together for the third time in Shashank Khaitan’s ‘Badrinath Ki Dulhania’
 
  
  
 Second film in the franchise, after the success of ‘
 ’, the film is a rom-com loaded with peppy music, full-on drama and spice. 
 
  
  
 
 Speaking about Alia as a bride, Varun Dhawan said, “I think Alia will make a good bahu as she is good with parents.” However, when Alia jokingly asked him if she will make for a good wife, Varun said, “I can’t say.”
 
 Varun lifted Alia in his arms in pure Humpty Sharma style as the title song of ‘Badrinath Ki Dulhania’ played in the background.
 
  
  
 When asked if Karan Johar looked for inspiration in Bollywood’s classic rom-com’s for this project, the producer was sportingly let in, “We copy movies all the time, we are not pretending to be original”. 
 
  
  
 Talking about his character, Varun added, “I’m very nervous. It feels like my first film. Badri is a very special character. I consumed a lot of alcohol during the film. This film has been more emotional than other films of mine.”
 
 Alia too shed light on her character, as she said, “Vaidehi (her character in the film) is not a shy girl at all. She’s domesticated, she’ll make for a good bahu, like Varun mentioned earlier, but she’s not shy at all – she’s very outspoken.” Of course, Alia had another important point to make as she added, “I'm the intelligent one in the film.”
 
 
 
 The actress also added how she is playing an on-screen bride for the third time. “This is the third time I am playing a bride. I think that’s my spirit. Alia equals to dulhania.” 
 
  
  
 The feisty actress also spoke at length about her career trajectory and her choice of films. “When I was new in the industry, I wasn’t aware of tags like an offbeat, commercial, massy or real film. I have just one goal – I have to be a 
  heroine, to do good films, to do cinema all over.”
 
 Varun added to her point saying, “There are just two choices - a good film and a bad film and you want to do good films.”
 
  
  
 On being asked why his character is named Badrinath, Varun revealed that he loved his on-screen name as it holds a significant place in his real life. Turns out, his best friend calls him ‘Badri’ as an abbreviation of ‘brother’. What’s more, Varun revealed that his friend used to even tease him saying he won’t feature in Hindi movies but in Bhojpuri films. 
  
  
  
