Madurai: Residents of Karpaga Nagar in Avaniapuram staged a protest and held siege of water tankers belonging to the Madurai Corporation, alleging that giant borewells, which were used to pump out water to other water deprived wards, was now depleting the groundwater levels in their borewells.

 Villapuram and Avaniapuram are some of the places in Madurai where ground water level is comparatively better when compared to other parts of the city. While the average depth of a borewell in places like K K Nagar and Anna Nagar, is about 500ft, according to a study done by a private organisation in March this year, it is 260ft in Villapuram and 200ft in Avaniapuram. In order to overcome the water crisis prevailing in the city, the corporation has dug borewells in places, where there is better ground water level and transports it through tankers to other wards.
 
 MNC Colony in Villapuram is one of the places where the civic body has dug about 12 giant borewells and the residents here claim that as much as 61,000 litres of water is pumped up and distributed to other wards. Ramasamy, a resident says that they do not mind sharing their water with other people as this is a natural resource that is copiously available in their area, but as there was severe drought last year, most of the borewells in the houses, which had been laid only for about 200 to 250ft have almost gone dry now.
 
 “Usually, our overhead tanks fill up in less than 30 minutes, but this year it is taking more than an hour and we are also incurring heavy electricity bills,” said Mahalakshmi, a resident of Villapuram. The residents gave many representations to the collector K Veera Raghava Rao and corporation commissioner asking them to reduce the withdrawal of water, but this was not heeded to, so they resorted to a protest and held the corporation tankers captive by locking the gates of the pumping station.
 
 The Avaniapuram police inspector came and held talks with them and assured them of action, by taking up the issue with the concerned authorities after which they gave up the protest. But, the residents said they would launch a bigger protest if the corporation continued to withdraw water and deprive them of the same.
 
 
