KOLKATA: Several   vends along National Highways in Bengal opened shop on Friday afternoon, prompting legal experts to wonder what provoked the move that could be interpreted as a clear case of contempt of the Supreme Court order banning sale of liquor within 500m of these roads.

 The mysteriously reopened shops included some of the favourite haunts of Kolkatans — Sher-E-Punjab in Kolaghat, Balaji Inn near Singur and Golden Inn near Dankuni. 
 
 “How is this possible when the apex court has delivered a judgment in response to a PIL seeking the ban? Such an act constitutes contempt of the court order,” said retired SC judge Asok Kumar Ganguly.
 
 Friday’s act was not a show of defiance by a single owner. The broad trend across several stretches made the development even more intriguing. It prompted the legal experts to wonder whether there was some complicity or tacit understanding between bar and off shop owners and the law-enforcing agency, which could have led to such open defiance of the apex court’s order.
 
 There was no confirmation of any written directive from any government agency till late on Friday even after an hours-long meeting between state excise and finance department officials. None from the government was ready to throw any light on the mysterious development or even acknowledge what had happened. Nor was there any formal communication from the government to the 2,140-odd liquor vends along highways, asking them to open shop.
 
 Bar owners said they “got hints from a section of excise officials”. “There was verbal instruction from officials that we could reopen our bar,” said Sukhbinder Singh of Sher-E-Punjab, Kolaghat. Singur’s Balaji Inn owner   too said, “We have reopened after we got an assurance from excise officials. Our business has taken a hit following the ban. We sell liquor worth over Rs 60,000 a day from our retail counter. We opened all the units today,” Pakhira said. An off shop owner in Madhyamgram, who reopened shop on Friday evening, also said they did so following “excise instructions”.
 
 All these shops lining national highways had downed shutters on April 1 after the SC order. Dankuni's Golden Inn owner Amalendu Chandra expressed relief at the reopening: “We spent sleepless nights. But we all had faith in the government. I have 17 employees. All of them joined today.” 
 
 There has been talk that Mamata Banerjee may take up the issue with the President. But senior lawyer   said, “I don’t know how the President can intervene when the SC has passed an order. There is no other route to amend the order unless a law is promulgated by Parliament. As of now, the developments are a clear case of contempt.” The President, under Article 143 of Constitution, may seek the SC opinion over a question of law or a matter of public importance. “But in this case, the SC has come out with an order. Where is the scope for Presidential intervention?” said high court lawyer Arunava Ghosh. 
 
 Meanwhile, an NGO, Arrive Safe Society, has moved the SC against Chandigarh reclassifying state highways as major district roads. The SC is yet to hear the appeal but its decision may have a bearing on other states, including Bengal.
 
 
