NOIDA: A delegation of youth leaders of Noida met SP traffic   on Wednesday evening over the need to sensitise school kids against underage driving and means to check that through workshops and tie-ups with various schools of Noida.

 While SP Singh offered all support, he also informed the youths about many initiatives underway to smoothen traffic mess in the city which includes 3000 challans against haphazard parked and unauthorised autos, use of pressurised horns (overloud horns used on highways by buses and trucks) by vehicles within city limits and check on unauthorised use of hooters and beacons on cars.
 
 According to Aditya Srivastava founder member and district president the Leo Club, youth wing of Lions club, one of the primary points discussed was about underage driving. “We met the principals of a few schools of Noida, including Amity International School and raised the need to sensitise students against underage driving. The principal, Renu Singh has assured us that no students will be allowed to drive their vehicles to school anymore,” said Srivastava who adds that they intend to take up the matter with   and at least 20-25 other schools in next one month.
 
 “For this, we wished to involve the traffic department, hence we met SP Singh on the matter who offered all support and maintained that in future he may look into the possibility of holding workshops in collaboration with us to generate traffic rule’s awareness and hazards of underage driving once we rope in maximum schools in the district,” said Srivastava.
 
 In the meeting with SP traffic, Srivastava also raised the issue of people flashing flags of political parties on their vehicles, refusing to follow traffic regulations and use of unauthorised hooters and beacons. SP traffic assured the youth leaders that two special campaigns are currently underway – firstly to check use of illegal hooters and beacons in the city and second, to disallow use of pressurised horns (meant only highways) on vehicles within city limits “Prabal Pratap ji informed us that while all cars and other vehicles are being checked for unauthorised use of hooters or beacons in them since last three-four days, he has also removed pressurised horns from 33 buses in last one week,” said Srivastava.
 
 Another youth member Ajay Chauhan complained about the menace of auto drivers driving rashly and parking according to whim. “On this, SP traffic informed that the main problem related to autos meant to ply outside city boundaries (such as Jewar, Dadri, Greater Noida etc.) coming to ply in Noida which is more crowded and offers more passengers.
 
 To check these, SP Singh maintained that over 3000 challans have been issued to auto drivers who are from outside the city or do not follow   since last three months. Apart from this, SP Singh has ordered 10 cranes which are in addition to already existing 6 cranes, to carry out vigorous towing of unauthorised parked vehicles,” said Chauhan.
 
 While Ranjan Tomar and Ankit Aggarwal, members of the youth delegation mentioned that most of the vehicular pollution is created at traffic lights, SP Singh added that measures are underway to have all signal lights fitted with timers so that people feel free to switch off the ignition of their cars.
 
 Even as the department lacks adequate traffic officers and constables, nearly three lakh vehicles ply in the city per day, said SP Singh who urges all residents to follow traffic rules.
 
