BHUBNAESWAR: A Bhubaneswar-bound   flight carrying 155 passengers onboard had to make an emergency landing at Mumbai's   on Monday afternoon after its pilots detected smoke in the cockpit. 

 The   turned back while it was   and landed in Mumbai shortly after takeoff. All 155 passengers are safe, an Air India spokesperson in New Delhi said. The flight was scheduled to land at the   in Bhubaneswar on Monday at 2.15 pm.
 
 The aircraft is now grounded. A team from the engineering department is inspecting it, the spokesperson said. 
 
 Airport sources here said the flight's pilots received a smoke warning in the cockpit after 25 minutes of flying. Following this, they sought the permission of the air traffic control to land in Mumbai. 
 
 "We have come to know that the flight has been delayed. There is yet to be any official confirmation of the reason for the delay," Bhubaneswar airport director Suresh Chandra Hota said at the time of the filing the report. 
 
 An Air India staff here said another flight had been arranged for the Bhubaneswar-bound passengers. The alternate flight from Mumbai took off at 4.15pm and arrived here at 6.30pm. All the passengers in it were safe, he said, adding that after the technical problem is fixed, the original flight will be operational once again.
 
 In August last year, 150 passengers on board an Air India (AI 075) Delhi-Bhubaneswar flight had a miraculous escape after one of the rear tyres of a wheel was punctured while the airplane was landing at the airport here. The aircraft was grounded as it was unable to take off for the return flight to Delhi.
 
 The Air India sources said there will be a thorough probe into the technical failure by a team of engineers to avert such incidents in future. "There was no panic among the passengers and the plane landed safely," said a source, adding there will was full preparation to address the emergency situation at Mumbai.
 
  "The fire engines were pressed into service. The due procedure was followed for evacuating the passengers," he added
 
 
