If you find yourself saying, “I can’t find anything to wear”, not because you don’t have enough clothes but because you have too many – you need to call in a professional. No, not a psychiatrist but a closet specialist. Hiring a professional organiser to clean the closet is par for course now. There has been a rise of closet/kitchen organisers who will clean out your clutter and leave it organised, upgraded and stylised. 

 Danijela Coha aka the Wardrobe Fairy organises closets for a living. She calls wardrobe decluttering as the first step to wardrobe transformation. Then there’s closet queen Lisa Adams who has designed wardrobes for Eddie Murphy, Derek Fisher, and Billy Crystal. In an interview Adams had said: “People want cleaner closets where they can have a boutique space feeling.”
 
 
 
 Closet organisers are also doubling up as wardrobe consultants telling you what to buy and stock. Take for instance, Hardik Gandhi who designs and declutters wardrobes for men at a starting price of `18,000. He counts some of the prominent CEOs and startup founders among his clientele. “Decluttering or organising closets is daunting for successful, single men. I work with CEOS who want clean spaces that help them decide what they want to wear without any chaos,” he says. His advice to them: create capsule wardrobes with five shirts, two trousers and a suit – invest in classics, and not trends. 
 
 Gandhi also advises them on what to stock. His standard MO is to first take stock of the current wardrobe, keep what’s worthy, donate what is “just not right” and then create a customised list of “wardrobe essentials”. He adds, “Don’t keep buying on a whim — online or high street — you are just adding to the clutter.”
 
 
 Ahmedabad-based closet organiser   mentions that the Indian women have a tendency to hoard and keep everything handed down from generations. “Women spend hours in front of their cupboards and can’t find anything to wear. I help them organise their closets after figuring out their lifestyle,” she says. Anantani charges `3,500-5,000 per hour to sort out closets. The closet is separated into categories like work, home, gym, yoga and socialising. “The rules are simple: if you haven’t worn anything for the last two years, you never will. Keep it clean,” she says. 
 
 You need a   if your closet is messy even after cleaning it. Gandhi adds, “Professional closet organisers are full of unique methods to help you get your closet from packed to priceless.” An organiser is like a closet coach who optimises your choices and gives you some great closet therapy.
 
 
