GANDHINAGAR: With agriculture playing a critical role in their economies, India and Africa both see a lot of scope for partnership and knowledge sharing. “This (agriculture) is an area where India and the bank can fruitfully join hands,” Prime Minister   said while formally opening the 52nd African Development Bank’s ( ) annual event on Tuesday.

 The theme of AfDB annual meetings, currently being held at Gandhianagar, is ‘Transforming Agriculture for Wealth Creation in Africa.’ 
 
 “I have launched an initiative to double farmers’ incomes by 2022,” said PM Modi. “It will require concerted steps, ranging from improved seeds and optimal inputs, to reduced crop losses and better marketing infrastructure.”
 
 “India is keen to learn from your (Africa’s) experiences as we proceed on this initiative,” Modi added.
 
 Similarly, Africa can also benefit from the Indian experience in development of agriculture sector. “From being dependent on imports for food security, India has achieved self-sufficiency in food in last three years,” said AfDB president  .
 
 “We need to follow India’s model of agriculture. Agriculture can help eradicate poverty in a big way,” Adesina added.
 
 Africa produces only 10% of the global food output despite having 60% of the arable land in the world. On the contrary, India has to support its population (17% of the world population) with 2% of world land mass. 
 
 “But we have met this challenge successfully, and there is a significant scope for the agricultural sector in Africa to benefit from the Indian experience,” said Union finance minister  , who is in Gandhinagar for the event.
 
 “Also, with the changing global landscape for agriculture and food security, India and Africa can emerge as key partners in this area,” Jaitley stressed.
 
 Irrigation practices, post-harvest and export infrastructure, farm mechanization for soil health and water management, food processing technologies, pulses production and contract farming are some of the areas where there could be co-operation between India and Africa, say experts.
 
