MADURAI: Expressing dissatisfaction over the manner in which the   (NIT) - Trichy conferred promotions on six assistant professors, the Madras high court Madurai bench set aside the same and directed the chairman and director of the institute to constitute a special committee to review the retrospective/ pre-dated promotions given to the six faculty.

 The committee, which will consist of renowned academicians from any other higher learning institution of government of India, has to submit a report to the chairman and director of the NIT who in turn will pass suitable orders giving promotions as per the   fixed under the regulations/ government orders, the bench said.
 
 Justice R   passed the order on a writ petition filed by one C Natarajan of NIT in 2011. Natarajan said that he was supposed to be promoted to the post of professor from October 1991, but was promoted from July 2006 only. At the same time, NIT gave retrospective promotion to other similarly placed people.
 
 Justice Suresh Kumar said, “According to chairman and director of the NIT, the petitioner has not fulfilled the publications of research and technical papers at least in four journals. If that is the only reason for denial of promotion to the petitioner, it has not been specifically projected by filing any document that the people given promotion have fulfilled all the conditions including publication of research papers in journals. 
 
 As per the regulation, an assistant professor should work for three years to become a professor. But, one S Natarajan has been given promotion within three years. It is highly doubtful whether the chairman and director have followed definite regulations or procedure or eligibility criteria for giving or considering the candidature of various persons to give promotions to the post of assistant professor and professor.”
 
 The judge further said, even though notices were served to all the six people, - S Selvakumar, K Sankaranarayanasamy, S Natarajan, A Noorul Haq, N Anantharam and Radhakrishnan - none of them were present to defend themselves and no counsels seemed to have been engaged by them. 
 
 “Therefore, this court has no other option except to draw adverse inference, insofar as the allegations made against them and this would be possible because of perusal of at least minimum records, which are produced before the court by chairman and director. 
 
 The promotions given to the six people were not on the basis of the crystal clear regulatory criteria, but on the basis of some other criteria, which is best known to them only. The court has no hesitation to hold that the promotions given cannot be termed as valid within the meaning of career advance scheme and the eligibility criteria fixed by the authorities concerned,” the judge said. 
 
