Nagpur: Straying of two   in crowded localities of North Nagpur and killing of another by stray dogs on Tuesday once again highlights the issue of rehabilitation of over 200 deer in parks which are crying for prey base.

 On early Tuesday morning, the rescue centre staff captured two three-year-old female deer — one from the kitchen of Wakim Sheikh, a resident of Misal Layout at Patankar Chowk, and another from Nalanda Nagar Bank Colony from the compound of Prakash Dongre. A deer that was killed by stray dogs was also brought to Seminary Hills.
 
 The team was led by forester LG Gedam, forest guards DB Borkar, RY Ingle, SP Kuhite and van majoor Ravindra Mitkari. There is every possibility of the deer moving out from forest department’s Nara depot on Koradi Road.
 
 The depot has at least 200 deer and it has a compound wall only from front side while the others are open. It is surrounded by roads and layouts and apartment blocks. There is no way for the deer to escape into the wild. Not only deer, the area also has peacocks and some hares. The place has turned into a virtual dumping yard.
 
 As the place doesn’t have a compound wall these deer stray outside and are vulnerable to dog attacks and accidents. In the past 3 years, at least 20 deer have died either in road hits or dog attacks. 
 
 Range forest officer (RFO) RB Nimbekar said the operation was successfully carried out in the presence of police personnel. “After treating the deer for minor bruises at the rescue centre, they were released in Gorewada reserve forest,” said Nimbekar.
 
 Wildlife conservationist Prafulla Bhamburkar said the deer at Nara have multiplied over the years and have now stranded as forest connectivity has broken due to construction of new Koradi power plant. He suggested the deer should be rehabilitated to PAs where there is low prey base.
 
 Wildlife vet with Maharashtra Zoo Authority (MZA) Dr Bahar Baviskar said MZA was ready to provide all technical assistance if forest officials are keen to release the deer somewhere else. Based on a TOI report, then PCCF (wildlife) Sarjan Bhagat had issued orders in April 29, 2015 to relocate the deer, but the operation was called off. 
 
 
