PATNA: The state   on Tuesday felt Bihar CM and JD(U) national president Nitish Kumar was on the same page with it in asking deputy CM Tejashwi Prasad Yadav to make “point-wise” explanation on the charges made by the CBI to clear the confusion in people’s mind. 

 “Nitish has asked Tejashwi to explain to people and address point by point all the questions raised by the CBI in the FIR registered against him (Tejashwi),” said senior Bihar BJP functionary Sushil Kumar Modi.
 
 “Nitish, in fact, has served an ultimatum to Tejashwi,” Modi said. “We will wait for Tejashwi’s reply and the next step Nitish takes before deciding our next course of action,” he said, indicating that the political parties would be busy in the presidential election scheduled on July 17. 
 
 The CBI registered an FIR against RJD chief Lalu Prasad, his wife and former CM Rabri Devi and their son Tejashwi on July 5 for their alleged involvement in the lease of two railway hotels to a private firm in return of favour. The CBI also raided their 12 premises, two days later.
 
 Modi said CBI FIR is different from that of police, as it is lodged after prima facie evidence. 
 
 Modi also retracted the statement made by Bihar BJP president Nityanand Rai on Monday that his party would support JD(U) if Nitish parted ways with Lalu. “Rai’s statement was distorted by the media. The BJP does not believe in breaking or destabilizing any government,” Modi said, adding the party’s central leadership alone can take a call on such issues.
 
 Modi was surprised over Nitish’s position on Tejashwi because the CM had taken action against five of his tainted ministers in the past. Further, Modi also recalled Nitish’s statement on RJD chief during the fodder scam that “Lalu should quit, until proven innocent”. Pooh-poohing Tejashwi, Modi said, “His stand is that I will not resign, until proved guilty!”
 
 Modi also countered the RJD legislators and spokesmen that Union minister Uma Bharti had also not resigned despite chargesheeted by the CBI, saying she was involved in a political programme and not in any corruption case.
 
 
