HYDERABAD: Vikram Goud, the   nominee in the 2016 Greater   (GHMC) election, has had a controversial past and had a run in with the law on many occasions. As per the affidavit filed by him before the State Election Commission, while contesting from Jam Bagh in the civic poll, he declared that he was facing two criminal cases in various police stations. 

 According to Vikram, a Miyapur court and a court in Erran Manzil have already taken cognizance of the allegations in the criminal cases pending against him. Some of the sections faced by him includes 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means), 427 (mischief) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of IPC. 
 
 Son of Congress leader Mukesh Goud, Vikram began his political career in the Youth Congress under the patronage of his father who was marketing minister in the YS Rajasekhara Reddy government. Sources said the father tried his best to secure a ticket for Vikram from Musheerabad Assembly constituency but did not succeed. 
 
 Subsequently, in the GHMC elections in 2015, Vikram succeeded in getting the Congress ticket for mayor but lost the seat to the MIM nominee. Since then, Vikram has been involved in business. According to sources, despite the Congress being out of power, Vikram managed to secure lenience from the authorities by virtue of being related to TRS leader and commercial taxes minister Talasani Srinivas Yadav in the TRS government.
 
 The young Congress leader was accused in the past of being involved in assaulting while being involving in settlements. 
 
 In one such settlement in 2013, Vikram and few of his associates picked up two businessmen from Banjara Hills and took them to Vikram's residence in Jubilee Hills. The two businessmen were asked to settle their dispute with two others , at whose behest Vikram was acting. The two businessmen were then allegedly beaten all through the night and the next day morning, made to wear new clothes and dropped at a hospital in Srinagar colony. 
 
 Prior to 2014, the local police never used to be forthcoming in registering cases against Vikram or his associates whenever anyone lodges a complaint. It was only after the complainant applies pressure on the cops that they would eventually register those cases, said the sources. 
 
 During 2014 election, a BJP leader Durga Raj was allegedly assaulted by Vikram and his associates. Raj was a BJP supporter in Goshamahal constituency from where Vikram's father Mukesh Goud lost the   seat to BJP's Raja Singh.
 
