Hyderabad: Tollywood actress  , who took a forced break from Bigg Boss show to face the questioning by the excise sleuths, told the Special Investigation Team ( ) here on Thursday that contrary to the general impression about her, she hardly parties or visits pubs. 

 Questioned about her habits in connection with drug abuse and other related questions, Mumaith replied that she has the habit of smoking and drinking but stoutly denied doing narcotics. 
 
 The actress came to SIT office at around 9.45 am to face the questioning and unlike the situation which prevailed on Wednesday, when Charmme came to Akbari Bhavan where in jostling took place, the excise sleuths on Thursday made user Mumaith didn’t face any problem. The officials also made sure that women policemen were deployed at the entrance, to avoid controversies. 
 
 During the questioning, when asked about her party life and visiting pubs, she claimed that she visits pubs very rarely. “Like Charmme, Mumaith also denied knowing any of the drug peddlers, denied every abusing drugs and mostly it was denial for all the questions concerning drugs,” a source in excise department said. 
 
 Officials said that Mumaith claimed that she mostly stays in Mumbai and visits Hyderabad only when she has shoot in Hyderabad and nowadays, with not many Tollywood projects coming her way, her frequency of visits to Hyderabad has further come down. 
 
 Unlike Charmme, Mumaith when asked her willingness about giving blood, nail and hair strand samples, Mumaith was prepared to give. But interestingly, the SIT officials did not prefer to take her samples. She was informed that if need be, they will take the samples in future. 
 
 Mumaith was let off before 5 pm and she was seen showing thumbs up while coming down the stairs. When asked about her equation with Tollywood director Puri Jaganadh and a few other Tollywood personalities, who are under the scanner in drugs case, Mumaith clarified that she only had professional relationship.
 
 
