CHENNAI: Police on Wednesday nabbed a 24-year-old woman who murdered her engineer husband with the help of her boyfriend at their Medavakkam residence and tried to make it appear that robbers killed him.

 Around 12 hours after  's body was found near his house at Gandhi Nagar, police arrested his wife   and her friend  , a neighbour, and charged them with his murder. A court will soon send them to jail.
 
 Police said Arivalagan, employed as an electrical engineer at a city theatre, was a native of Ariyalur district. He married Surekha, a relative, six years ago and their daughter Sadhana was born four years ago.
 
 Around 10 months ago, preliminary inquiries revealed, Surekha developed a relationship with Ganapathy who lived in an adjacent house. The duo then devised a plan to eliminate Arivalagan.
 
 On Tuesday, after Arivalagan and Sadhana went to sleep, Surekha strangled her husband under the light of her mobile phone torch. She then let Ganapathy in and told him to slit the slain man's throat.
 
 They dragged Arivalagan's body 100 metres away from the house and dumped it there. Surekha gave away the gold jewellery she was wearing to her boyfriend and went home. On Wednesday morning, Surekha called her mother  , who lives nearby, and told her that three masked robbers killed her husband, attacked her and fled with her jewellery.
 
 Sampoornam rushed to Surekha's place with a few relatives and friends and found her daughter unconscious. They alerted police, following which a team found Arivalagan's body and sent it to the Chromepet GH for autopsy. Surekha's family took her to the same hospital where, after regaining consciousness, she stuck to her version of the incident. But police were not convinced.
 
 A senior officer said Surekha, who suffered only minor injuries, claimed the robbers had snatched her 'mangalsutra', gold ear studs and rings.
 
 Earlier, she had told her mother that three masked men knocked on their door and killed her husband when he opened it. They attacked her when she tried to help him, tied her up in a chair and dragging away her husband's body.
 
 Police then questioned her young daughter who said she had woken up suddenly at night and switched on the light, but her mother switched it off and put her back to sleep.
 
 Convinced the woman had been lying, police again grilled Surekha who cracked and confessed to the crime.
 
