NAGPUR:   (CTS), established in 2015, organized a conference during the installation ceremony of their new team for 2017-18 at   on Saturday. CTS is a body which consists of  , anaesthetists, and perfusionists who work to promote new researches and advancements in the field of cardiology and discuss various case reports.

 The session started with a segment presentations by renowned doctors where   discussed about the anticipated future of cardiology in Nagpur and Central India. He said, “We need to change the society’s perception towards surgeries. Availability of technology is a big challenge but we’re not sure of enough resources to fund them. We need to follow the heart team approach for any task. All the procedures followed during the process should be registered to avoid any questions or complications later."
 
 Dr. Swapnil Deshpande, cardiac surgeon gave a brief idea about the new projects to be implemented. He said, “There are various countries performing robotic surgeries which are successful, especially LIMA harvesting and we shall also work on it. We have CATHLABS in the city but we need to raise the level to a mobile CATHLABs available in countries like Paris as they have fastest hospital to door time.”
 
 Cardiac anaesthetist, Dr. Yogesh Zanwar while speaking about the advancements in anaesthesiology said, “We are working towards making the process of anaesthesia and recovery as fast as possible. We’re also looking forward to have special Paediatric cardiac surgery and anaesthesia units for advanced clinical management of patients.”
 
 The educational presentations were followed by the installation ceremony and chief guest Dr. Deepak Tempe, director, professor, GIPMER Delhi and the guest of honour, Dr. Alok Ghosh, director, professor, DMIMS, Sawangi felicitated the newly appointed officer bearers with Dr. Arvind Joshi as the president of CTS this year. 
 
 Ex-president of CTS, Dr. PK Deshpande shared his experience and appealed to the fresh members to keep researching and disseminating knowledge within a society and work for the people’s welfare. Dr. Vinay Kulkarni was prominently present. 
 
 (Reporting by Nishi Jaiswal)
 
