CHENNAI: The 'mystery documents' apparently snatched away by AIADMK functionaries from income   raiding state   C Vijayabaskar's home on April 8 are not lost forever, after all. Investigating officials on raid duty had managed to take copies of the papers, before AIADMK men ran away with them.

 Sources told TOI that the copies were duly included in the panchanama of seizedrecovered list of articles, and Vijayabaskar has signed in acknowledgment, too. Details included in panchanama and signed by the owner of the premises under raid, are as good as originals and are accepted as valid evidence in all income tax-related proceedings arising out of such raids.
 
 Narrating the April 8 events at the minister's house, a senior IT investigation official told TOI that when they were searching the residence of Vijayabaskar, a bunch of papers was found in the minister's car. “ After our officials informed us about the commotion at the minister's house, we told them to take pictures of the papers on their phones.“ Officials at Vijayabaskar's residence took the pictures and shared them with senior department officials through Whatsapp.
 
  At the end of the searches, the officials included copies of the missing papers in the `panchnama' and asked the minister to sign.“We received the signature of the minister for the missing papers by showing him the pictures on the mobile phones. He accepted that the papers belonged to him and signed,“ said the official.
 
 TOI accessed the mobile phone images of the documents showing distribution of money by the minister to various party functionaries for the R K Nagar byelection. “All the pages have minute details of money distribution for the R K Nagar byelection. The minister acted as a pointsperson for money distribution and important documents were seized from MLAs' hostel and a hotel at Egmore,“ said the official.
 
 It was around noon on April 8, when the raids were still on, state ministers R Kamaraj and Udumalai Radhakrishnan, accompanied by Tamil Nadu government's special representative in New Delhi   forced their way into the residence of Vijayabaskar. In the melee, a person took the papers from a resident of the house, ran towards the gate and hurled it out.
 
  An AIADMK cadre snatched it from officials and ran away even as the state police personnel stood watching. The man who took away the mystery packet returned, only to be advised by others to keep the papers in safe custody. I-T investigation wing principal director has lodged a police complaint on the obstruction caused by ministers and other party functionaries to the raid party , and also about the missing papers.
 
