THANE: Three of the 10 applicants for a learning license failed the mandatory   tests conducted by the Regional Transport Office in Thane thereby ensuring a new generation of responsible drivers and safer roads.

 The   rules and the technology-driven time-bound examination process has strictly eliminated applicants who would casually walk in the   offices unprepared and unwilling to read up on the basic road safety regulations, signages or traffic signals.
 
 “The new online exam format which was introduced since October 2016 is aimed to ensure safe driving and inculcate a sense of shared responsibility among drivers towards pedestrians and fellow bikers or car drivers. From October-December 2016, of the 6,406 applicants for drivers license, close to 30 per cent or to be precise 1,847 candidates were denied the privilege of a learner’s license as they failed to clear the online tests,’’ said Hemangini Patil, deputy regional transport officer.
 
 The revised online exam pattern has given a   time to undeserving applicants who failed to get a correct response to nine of the 15 questions put up on their computer terminals in a time-bound manner.
 
 “In this pattern, each applicant is given a different set of multiple choice questions so there is no possibility of copying. Moreover, the applicant’s response has to be completed in 30 seconds so any delay also makes him or her ineligible for a learning license,’’ she said.
 
 The new procedure was devised after the RTO realised the flaws in the earlier pattern where the questions were put up on one big screen and all applicants would click their response based on the answers shared by all in the room.
 
 “The earlier process was easy to crack and the chances of failure was minimal as the applicants would simply copy from the person standing next to them. The rate of failure then was just about 10 per cent and securing a learning license was very easy,’’ added Patil. 
 
 She said that on an average around 70-100 candidates appear for the online exam and those who fail have to re-appear for the tests the next day. 
 
 
