MHAISAL (SANGLI): Homeopath Babasaheb Khidrapure, a native of Kanwad village in Shirol taluka of Kolhapur district, set up his medical practice in Mhaisal 12 years ago from a rented shop in Sutar lane. In 2013, he constructed the eight-bed medical facility,  , covering a 3,000 sq.ft. area.

 Police said Khidrapure completed his Bachelor of   (BHMS) degree from a college in Mumbai before starting his practice in Mhaisal. His wife, Manisha, has a BHMS degree from a college in Pune and was practising in Narwad village, a few kilometres from Mhaisal.
 
 Vllagers said that though they rarely took treatment at Khidrapure's hospital, it was always flooded with patients from across Satara, Kolhapur and Sangli districts and parts of neighbouring Karnataka too.
 
 A senior Sangli police officer said they were trying to confirm whether Khidrapure had a valid BHMS degree.“We are gathering information about the institute from where he completed his medical education and since when he has been conducting sex determination tests and abortions,“ he said.
 
 Khidrapure's hospital did not have a sonography machine, the officer said.“We suspect he had contacts with other doctors who used sonography machines to conduct sex determination tests. In turn, they probably sent patients to Khidrapure's hospital for abortion. We are finding out which clinics have sonography machines in the border areas of Karnataka neighbouring Sangli.We also have information that some Sangli doctors used to visit Khidrapure's hospital,“ he said.
 
 A five-member team under Sangli civil surgeon Sanjay Salunkhe has been formed to probe details about Khidrapure and the operations he performed at the hospital. The other members of the team are medical officers V R Jadhav, B S Girigosavi and Ashok Shinde and taluka health officer Vijay Sawant.
 
 Nana Kamble, a social activist from Mhaisal village, said Khidrapure's hospital was known to be expensive.“He used to charge a hefty fee for even minor treatments like cough and cold. Nobody from the village would visit this doctor but we were always surprised to see the hospital flooded with patients. We now know why the hospital was well-known outside. It is a blot on our village,“ he added.
 
