PUNE: Following the Shiv Sena’s decision to not renew their alliance, the Bharatiya Janata Party is planning a more aggressive strategy to woo voters — especially in NCP-dominated areas — ahead of next month’s civic elections. 

 Sources in the   camp say the party is confident of a good result, as fighting polls alone had worked out in its favour in the past. 
 
 “Both parties had fought the 2014 assembly elections alone after Sena decided against an alliance,” said a senior BJP leader who added, “But the move backfired as Sena did not manage even a single seat in Pune; they were not even in second place. BJP swept all the seats, and a repeat appears likely in the  .”
 
 Political observers say the balance has tipped in favour of the BJP, which dominates the state and centre, with eight MLAs and one MP. Sources said the party is keen on a strong show in the civic polls, and observed that whenever   and the BJP went at it alone, voters seemed to favour the latter. Sources also expect the Shiv Sena to go all out to dent BJP’s confidence.
 
 The BJP leadership is banking on its MLAs to help formulate a battle plan. The party has a strong base in central Pune. 
 
 Sena dismissive
 
 Meanwhile, Sena leaders claim that the real contest in Pune will be between Sena and the NCP, and that the BJP will be nowhere in the picture. Sena leaders expressed satisfaction with the decision to go it alone, and claim to have their poll strategy in place. “We will announce a preliminary list of candidates, mostly by Monday,” said a senior leader.
 
 “The (BJP) wave is no longer there. People are unhappy and agitated because of demonetisation. Nothing (good) has come out of the move and people will express their anger,” the leader said.
 
 Highly-placed sources in the Shiv Sena said they have no inkling of whether the party leadership is planning to join hands with the   (MNS). “Such decisions are taken only by the party chief. As of now, there is no concrete proposal. Even senior leaders from our party are unaware about such a proposal,” a party leader said.
 
 
