CHENNAI: A   in Chintadripet for the   has become a   for the 96 beneficiaries who after being abandoned by the partenring   have now been asked to pay Rs 70 lakh and avoid the ignominy of being without a roof. 

 Residents of the Ritchie Street   Cooperative Housing Society have been told to pay up by the Housing and Urban Development Corporation Limited (Hudco), which partners the Centre on initiatives for urban homeless like the Deendayal Antyodaya Yojana and the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana.
 
 HUDCO is holding the beneficiaries, most of them dalit daily wagers, accountable for defaulting on loan repayment in the Rs 1.03 crore project built between 1998 and 2000. The project had additional funding from EZE, a German missionary agency, and city-based Community Development Information and Action Centre (Codiac), an NGO.
 
 HUDCO loaned Rs 24 lakh in 1999 on the condition that Codiac collect the debt over 55 quarterly installments between 2000 and 2014. According to J Arul Raj, a resident, the NGO abandoned the ship in 2003. “None of the residents here refused to pay the money. We maintain books that will prove how much we have repaid. When Codiac stopped collecting money, we didn’t know how to pay HUDCO as the NGO was responsible for collection and deposit,” he said.
 
 When the installments stopped, HUDCO issued notice to Codiac in 2005 and to the 96 beneficiaries in 2008, informing of the agreement cancellation and demanding total repayment within 15 days. In its petition before the Debt Recovery Tribunal in 2009, HUDCO said Codiac “disowned liability” and asked it to proceed against the beneficiaries for non-repayment.
 
 In December 2015, the tribunal asked HUDCO to proceed with asset seizure if loans were not be repaid, but ordered interest reduced from 13.5% to 6%, bringing the debt to Rs 70 lakh. “Each family will have to pay around Rs 80,000 to obtain house deed or be rendered homeless,” said Arul Raj.
 
 While TN Slum Clearance Board, which initiated the project and brought Codiac on board, washed its hands off the issue, HUDCO and Codiac representatives did not offer comment when contacted.
 
 Retired justice K Chandru suggested that HUDCO go in for an out-of-court settlement considering the defaulters socio-economic condition. Tamil Nadu Untouchability Eradication Front general secretary P Sampath said the state government should intervene. “Big corporate firms default on huge loans and the government is not able to do much to bring them to book. Here, the government should be sympathetic and facilitate payment of a fair sum because it is the oppressed class that is affected,” he said.
 
 A petition filed with the chief minister’s special cell by the beneficiaries did not elicit action. “We sent a petition to the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) and Union Minister M Venkaiah Naidu too,” said Arul Raj. The NHRC had sought a response from the state chief secretary by May 28 when the matter will be taken up for hearing.
 
 
