VIJAYAWADA: Union science and technology junior minister and chief minister Chandrababu Naidu’s point man in New Delhi,  , stirred a controversy when he asked the protagonists of   (SCS) to go and play with pigs if they are so fond of Jallikattu. 

 Declaring that SCS is a closed chapter, Chowdary ridiculed the agitations planned by the opposition parties. Chowdary attended Republic Day celebrations at the party head quarter in Hyderabad and lost his cool when media grilled him about AP reverberating with pro-SCS agitations and police curbs. 
 
 “I do not understand as to how protests demanding Jallikattu (a bull fight of Tamil Nadu) became an inspiration to these people. If they are really fond of Jallikattu, let them go and play Jallikattu. They are free to take part in cockfight. If not satisfied, they can go and take part in pig fight competitions,” said a visibly angry Chowdary. 
 
 He went on to challenge the supporters of Special Category Status to prove as how the status helps the state. He asked the protestors to show under what rule, which Act the benefits could be granted to the state through SCS. Like majority of the TDP leaders, Chowdary too was looked under seize and spewed venom on opposition leaders. He demanded that someone should tell him which state had prospered with SCS. 
  
 However, Chowdary’s remarks caused irreparable damage to the party than bringing solace as it went viral on social media leaving hundreds of supporters of SCS taking on the union minister. Within minutes after Chowdary slipping the tongue, Janasena leader and Film star Pawan Kalyan ripped through the Union minister for his unfounded remarks on a justifiable agitation. 
 
 “As long as you slip your tongue, you are only helping the youth fighting for the cause. Ok, Continue it,” tweeted Pawan Kalyan. He said that it was unfortunate that Chowdary compared the inspirational fight of the youth for SCS with pigs fight. He had also criticized MP Rayapati Sambasiva Rao for mortgaging the interests of the state for contracts and businesses. He said that business people like Rayapati were solely responsible for the anger and hurt feeling of Telangana youth in the past and they were repeating the same mistake. He warned that business tycoons have no moral right to script the future of the youth and state.
 
 Tollywood script writer   lashed out Chowdary for his comments on SCS. “You asked us to play with Pigs. Yes, we will start the game with pigs like you,” Chinni Krishna retorted. He said that those opposing the agitations for SCS and fighting spirit of Jagan and Pawan would have to bite the dust soon. 
 
 Youth activists too started trolling Chowdary on his remarks. Reacting to his remark that no state had prospered with SCS, a youth asked whether Chowdary doesn’t know this before last elections.
 
