GOA: Just a handful of Portuguese era   dealers exist in Goa today.  , a non-descript store situated in Margao’s bustling new market, is one of these, and probably the only such outlet in South Goa. 

 Established in 1932, the store was the pet project of  , an avid hunter of tigers, leopards and bisons, among other game. So good was Balkrishna at the activity that the Portuguese even presented him with a diplomad kasador, which, loosely translated, means ‘diploma in hunting’. This exempted him from having to procure a licence to operate an arms and ammunition store. The enterprising Balkrishna eventually migrated from his native village of Paroda, Quepem, to set up his shop in   in 1932, which he named after his son, Gajanan. 
 
 Now, 85 years on, the store continues to sells 12-bore rifles and a variety of hand guns, including .25 Baby Browning, .25 Bolt, Walter PPK and Colt. Revolvers such as Smith & Wesson and Colt, and ammunition such as the US-made Winchester and the Czech Republic’s Sellier &   are also available here.
 
 Gajanan’s son, Deepak, who presently operates the store with assistance from his sister, Suvarna, and two sons, Anish and Tejas, says the colonial Portuguese rulers exercised much more leniency in the arms and ammunition business than the dispensations of today. “There are several strictures imposed now. No individual or government servant, including police personnel, can purchase a weapon unless he/she has obtained all the requisite permissions from the authorities concerned,” Deepak, who has a penchant for the Mouser rifle, says. 
 
 Gajanan B S Kharangate’s clientele mainly comprises private firms from across the country that are authorised to deal in arms and ammunition. The store also supplies cartridges and gun powder to the state police department, which are used to test the functionality of seized weapons in criminal investigations. Such a transaction, however, requires sanction from the collector. 
 
 The store sells an average of three air guns daily, although it has also catered to a recent surge in demand for pistols and revolvers. Repair and maintenance of any weapon are also undertaken, whatever be its make. “That’s because we have the expertise to do so,” Deepak smiles. 
 
