CHENNAI: With politicians in the state, especially those from the faction-ridden  , facing an uncertain future, many are turning to an unlikely source for assistance.   say that politicians are making a beeline to their doorsteps and booking lengthy sessions, so much so that there are no appointments available for members of the public.

 Many politicos are not satisfied with a single opinion and seek second and third opinions from different astrologers. Some are also clutching the horoscopes of chief minister  , former chief minister O Panneerselvam and Jayalalithaa’s niece J Deepa, as their fates are intertwined with that of these leaders.
 
 “Politicians are booking dates with astrologers in the names of their kin to avoid being identified,” said an astrologer from Chennai. “Yes, I have approached the astrologer to check out my career and future,” admitted a senior politician from  . “My wife forced me to make special visits to temples in and around Kumbakonam to wipe out evil spirits a week ago,” he added.
 
 There is high demand for a leading astrologer from Coimbatore who had predicted the AIADMK’s historic second successive win in 2016, as well as J Jayalalithaa’s illness, well in advance. He said, “My dates are running full right from 9am to 11pm for the next two months. Many people are booking in advance to get an appointment.”
 
 A city-based astrologer, who appears on a private television channel, said, “Politicians are getting appointments not only to get clarity on their own futures but also wish to know if their horoscopes are on the same wavelength as those of various leaders who are contending for power amidst the political turmoil in the state.” He added, “It is possible to predict the future of any person based on his or her birthday, place of birth and time of birth.” 
 
 Another astrologer, Rathna G Srinivasan of Maduravoyal, said, “Anyone can become popular in politics if he or she has the sun and Mars in a favourable position. The sun will give political power while Mars will give public support. However, if Venus is in favourable position, the person will shine like a star in movies or other arts.” 
 
 
