As heavy rains continue to lash the city, many of Doon’s streets have been flooded, with water logging becoming an almost daily issue that people grapple with. What has further worried many citizens is the fact that the rivers in the city have been crossing the danger mark frequently. So, to make people aware of the dangerous areas and the precautions that can be taken, the city police, NGOs and individuals have taken to social media, constantly posting pictures and videos of overflowing rivers, waterlogged streets and giving useful advices to people --the do’s and don’ts while travelling in and around the city this  . 

  
  A waterlogged street at ISBT, Doon (Taresh Dutta/ BCCL)
 
 
 
 
  Reenu Paul, president of Rajpur Community, a group looking after the welfare of the area, says, "The condition of this city last Wednesday was scary. It has always rained heavily in the state but I don’t remember the situation being so bad in recent years, as it was last week. Our rivers were flooded and because of lack of precautions – that should have ideally been taken across the entire city – the drains were choked, there was water everywhere and long hours of traffic jams, with ve She goes on to explain, “At places like Tapkeshwar and  , we have built shops and buildings in areas which are dangerously close to the river. So in monsoons, when the level of river water rises, there is havoc and destruction, leading to loss of property, if not lives."
 
  Like last Wednesday, Reenu keeps getting multiple videos and photos on messages and mails about the flooding, and she posts them online for the benefit of the citizens. "I post pictures and videos online so that people can take precautions. Last week, we shared multiple videos from Maldevta, Rajpur and other places where the monsoon had really hit hard, urging people to not just avoid going to these places at this time but also to come up and speak to the authorities and question them on the measures that they had planned for monsoons. These posts received multiple shares from people in Doon. The Dehradun police page has also been quite active throughout this week posting regular updates on FB."
 
  
  
 
  
  The Dehradun police, social groups and individuals have been putting up monsoon-related posts on social media
 
 
 
 
  Karan from MADbyBTD says, "Time and again, we have consistently pointed out that   should learn from the catastrophe that struck   in 2013. Four years since then, its capital city is repeating the same mistakes, at even greater proportions. By undertaking constructions on the river bed, we are distorting the perennial character of these streams - and they are bound to hit back. Therefore, we are continuing our campaign of persuading government authorities to ensure that there is minimal loss of property. Along with this, we are constantly updating people on FB and other social media sites to be careful this monsoon."
 
  Jai Sharma, founder of JOY (Just Open Yourself), says, "As the rivers flood and many homes are lost to this calamity, we are conducting awareness drives, both physical and through social media, to provide help to people who reside in the slums near these rivers. While many members physically go door-to-door, spreading awareness, others take to social media to actively encourage others to help those in need. We’ve been working day and night to make sure that more help reaches the affected parts and maximum people are sensitised about the issue in hand."
  
  
 
  
  Screenshots of social media posts put up by groups and individuals in Dehradun
 
 
 
  
  Sanjeev Chamoli, who runs a leading FB page called The Dehradun City, says, "There has been lot of destruction again this year in the city during monsoons. At this time, it is very important for people to avoid places like hills and riversides. I have been constantly updating people with pictures and posts on FB about places where landslides are happening and which can be avoided at the time. Recently, I received a picture which showed two youngsters clicking a pictures near a river, which was almost flooded in the state. Such careless actions can lead to accidents. I posted the picture on FB to make people aware that such actions can be disastrous."
  Asmita, who runs an FB page called  , says, "People have been constantly sending us videos and pictures from different parts of the city which have been flooded with water. We have been constantly posting them to keep the masses updated about the conditions. We are also telling them how they can help people living in those areas or stay safe at that time."
 
 --Akshita.Vohra@timesgroup.com
  
  Broken road, flooded area at Maldevta (Taresh Dutta/ BCCL)
 
  
  A waterlogged area at ISBT (Taresh Dutta/ BCCL)
 
