What are the odds that Tamil cinema’s greatest composer, director and playback singer would all start their careers at the same time, together in one room? Astronomical, right? This remarkable story doesn’t start in Chennai, though. It begins when malaria inspector Chinnachamy (as   was then called) visitsPannaipuram on an official visit and meets the Paavalar brothers — Varadarajan, Baskar, Raajaiah and Amarsingh. This musical band-of-brothers make their living performing in propaganda meetings of the Communist party. Bharathirajaa immediately finds common ground with them. They are kindred souls. All of them, especially Bharathirajaa, Raaja and Amaran have stars in their eyes. They dream fantastic dreams of making it in Kodambakkam. But they are only dreams; poverty and family situations hold them back. Bharathirajaa is the first to take the leap of faith. He throws up his government job and rides his fantasy to Madras. It should have been like Prabhas chasing the damsel up the waterfall in Bãhubali, insanely risky and driven by passion. Raaja and Amaran follow shortly. As they reunite, a young upcoming singer, Balu ( ) joins them. The rest, as they say, is history. 
 
  
 The quartet (because   was no lightweight either) would go on to become pillars of the very Kodambakkam they once stood in awe of. As us, fans, look on dismayed as battle rages between them in the recent past, let me offer a little bit of consolation through some nostalgia. It was quite a partnership. Consider this. SPB singing for   and Bharathirajaa, Ilaiyaraaja composing for Bharathirajaa, Amaran writing lyrics for Bharathirajaa and Ilaiyaraaja, Ilaiyaraaja composing for Gangai Amaran’s films, Ilaiyaraaja producing movies directed by Bharathirajaa and Amaran, SPB singing in Amaran’s music… At one point, there was even a plan for Amaran to star as hero in a Bharathirajaa film! I have often wondered if working together that consistently was the defining reason for their scarcely believable success. In my mind, I see the genius of Ilaiyaraaja as the fulcrum of the coalition, the fuel that fed their creative fire (You are, of course, welcome to disagree). Consider their impact on Tamil Cinema. 
 
  
  
 Bharathirajaa, a genius in his own right, changed the very landscape of our films overnight. He dragged Tamil filmdom kicking and screaming out of its musty studios into the breathtaking beauty of our villages and neon-lights of Chennai. I also consider Mudhal Mariyathai the best Tamil film ever made. SPB would go on to become the most prolific male playback singer in th e country. Gangai Amaran, apart from his lyrical efforts would go on to direct Karagattakaran, the film that still holds the record for most-numberof-days in theatres and add significantly to the rural milieu. Ilaiyaraaja’s contributions are too legion and well known to recount here. You can’t help but feel that they couldn’t have done it without each other. Here’s hoping they resolve their differences. Ippadai thorkin eppadai vellum.
 
 
 
