MADURAI: Barely two weeks after frowning at  ,   disapproved of the   by  , and warned them of action under   (ESMA) provisions if they persisted with their agitation. The court also directed representatives of the 10 striking trade unions to appear before it on Wednesday. 

 "Members of the trade unions are directed to resume work forthwith to ensure the regular service of public transport. If the members fail to resume work, the chief secretary and transport secretary are directed to take necessary action against them under the ESMA, to invoke the power of disciplinary action and penal action against the violators," said the division bench of justices M V Muralidaran and N Seshasayee.
 
 The bench was hearing a public interest writ petition filed by Madurai-based advocate J Senthil Kumariah to declare the strike as illegal and unconstitutional.
 
 Before taking up the case, the bench observed that it was constrained to take up the petition as for urgent hearing since substantial number of people in the state were affected without transport facilities. "In the perception of this court, the circumstances are extraordinary, as mobility of the citizens are greatly affected," the court said.
 
 During arguments, the petitioner said the government was not interested in addressing the grievances of transport employees, resulting in 10 trade unions, including LPF and CITU, calling for indefinite strike for implementation of their various demands. Due to strike people, particularly those in villages, have been severely affected and private bus operators collected exorbitant fare from public.
 
 Noting that the state has duty to ensure the delivery of certain services such as public transport, health and education, he said state and central governments, which were bound to ensure availability of uninterrupted transport services, had failed in their duty. He also also brought the incidents of trade unionists' attacks on workers who were ready for duty at places various including Mudukulathur, to the notice of the court.
 
 Hence, it was necessary to declare the strike as illegal and unconstitutional as per the ESMA and to issue direction to the state's chief secretary, home secretary and the DGP to ensure safe and uninterrupted transport service to public besides action against people who obstruct employees coming for work.
 
 
