NEW DELHI: Congress on Tuesday sounded the poll bugle for the forthcoming municipal elections with party vice-president   addressing a rally at  . 

 The Gandhi scion, all charged up after a high-intensity poll campaign in Uttar Pradesh, trained his guns on the “corrupt” BJP-led municipal corporations and accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of failing to rein them in. “While Modi claims he will put an end to corruption across the nation, he has failed to take any step to curb corruption in MCD (sic) as it is the most corrupt entity,” Rahul said. He also spent a lot of time talking about the UP elections and slamming Modi.
 
 He also attacked chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on various issues. “Kejriwal made several promises but failed to keep them. BJP-ruled municipal corporations failed to even provide salaries to their employees. Safai karamcharis had to come out on the streets several times to protest. At the time of Shakur Basti demolition, I was present but Kejriwal never turned up,” Rahul said. 
 
 The rally was attended by thousands of Congress workers—one lakh according to the party and 30,000 by police estimates. But Rahul turned up two hours late. Yet when he finally started talking, Rahul said Congress would give tickets to only those who have worked on the ground. “Congress workers will choose their leaders in this poll and every other poll as councillors, MLAs, chief ministers and even Prime Minister. We will bring new people and we will have majority in all the three corporations,” Rahul said. 
 
 DPCC chief Ajay Maken referred to the Anna Hazare-led anti-graft movement too. “What happened to the Lokpal Bill? This is the same venue from where Arvind Kejriwal had made several promises to the people of Delhi. But these days, it is difficult to find him in the city. Why doesn’t Kejriwal talk about the bill now?” Maken said.
 
 “In the past two years, safai karamcharis went on strike five times, pensions haven’t reached and development has taken a back seat. BJP has failed to run the corporations and it has resulted in severe financial crises. The total pending arrears of sanitation workers under the three municipalities is around Rs 1,500 crore, and no recruitment has happened in the past few years either,” Maken added.
 
 Congress also released a 10-page newsletter on the “failures” of the Delhi government and the civic bodies.
 
