With ageless charm, box-office success and the love of millions of fans, he is the one. Which is why, when   dropped into our office on Thursday to meet Team CT, it was a very special occasion. He chatted with us, played some table tennis and grabbed a quick working lunch. Excerpts from the conversation:

 
 
 (Laughs) Sheer discipline! I live a controlled life; I eat right, work out for three-and-a-half hours daily, do yoga and avoid late nights. You have to sacrifice many things to achieve something, and I do that. When everyone indulges at parties, I stick to a cup of black coffee. I have sacrificed a lot to reach this position, but sadly, people only see the success, not what goes behind it. And it’s a myth that I only survive on cucumber and curd. I eat healthy food. Recently, I was reading Virat Kohli’s interview and realised that his diet is more or less similar to mine. People pay money to watch me on screen, so it is my responsibility to maintain myself.
 
 
 I lost eight kilos to play the baddie that is Aditya Sen. With every film, I try to reinvent myself so that I can give something new to my audience. Aditya Sen needed that toned look. Plus, I was on a no-carb and no-oil diet, where I had only protein. Broccoli and lettuce are the only two vegetables I had, apart from boiled fish and chicken. Whenever I felt hungry I had cucumbers. That apart, exercise was a must.
 
 
 
 (Laughs) Not at all. Let me tell you, it is easy to be number one but to stay in that position is a tough task. I have been through a lot to reach here, but I choose to keep quiet and let my work do the talking. Negative comments give me the impetus to do better. Coming back to the title, the film is essentially a modern retelling of the eternal conflict between good and evil. Yash plays an honest police officer, Ronojoy Bose, whose sole aim in life is to destroy corruption. He comes across his arch-enemy — the unscrupulous businessman Aditya Sen, who is a scientist. As a cat-and-mouse game between the two ensues, there are too many lives at stake.
 
 
 
 The way he plays those mind games fascinated me. That apart, I wanted to play an evil man. He is like Hitler, who wants to rule the world. In the film, he says, ‘Bharatborsher naam holo kina amar kichhu eshe jai na, ami chai amar naam hok.’ He wants to be a winner…
 
 
 Well, winning is in my blood. But I don’t support the means that Adiya Sen resorts to in order to reach the top. Having said that, I can relate to him in many ways. I have lost many things in life because of this. There were times when I was supposed to go on a holiday with my family, but had to cancel it at the last moment as I got a meaty offer. At that time I felt that brand Prosenjit Chatterjee will go three steps back if I don’t do the film. So, I admit I am selfish at times. But now what matters to me is how to better my brand.
 
 
 
 I have a long way to go. The hunger for good roles is still there in me and it haunts me at night. I keep asking the directors to think something out of the box for me and I can assure I will not disappoint. I need to do films like Mishawr Rawhoshyo,  , One to keep the brand Prosenjit going, but at the same time, I have to do films like Moner Manush,   to fulfil my creative hunger.
 
 
 
