AHMEDABAD: Chicken and   are emerging as two major concerns for health officials in Ahmedabad as the city prepares to host the Vibrant Gujarat Global Summit (VGGS)-2017. The reasons are obvious.

 For health officials, it’s like going back to 2006 when the bird flu virus H5N1 and aedes aegypti mosquito spreading chikunguniya and dengue had struck Gujarat at the same time. It is the same this year too. 
 
 Since mid-November 2016, the city has been battling chikungunya. Today, of the 364 cases of chikungunya reported at civic body-run hospitals since January 2016, 208 were reported in just November and December last year. In contrast, there was just one case of chikungunya in December 2015. 
 
 The   (AMC) has started a massive anti-vector drive and in the coming two days will further intensify fogging in the city. Major commercial centres and residential clusters are being scanned for chikungunya and dengue cases and preventive measures are being implemented with greater intensity.
 
 After bird flu was reported on January 1 this year, some 1,650 poultry birds were culled in three days within 1-km radius of the flu epicenter in Hathijan area. As a precaution, a major door-to-door survey for potential flu cases is being carried out within 10-km radius of the Hathijan offices of the NGO, Asha Foundation. Such cases, where found, are under observation. The animal husbandry department officials are scanning nearby butcher shops for sick poultry birds.
 
 Health commissioner JP Gupta told TOI that, as of now, the government had not issued any advisory to hotels and restaurants restricting them from serving chicken or poultry products to VGGS guests or any citizen. “WHO guidelines clearly state that if the meat is handled safely, cooked safely, there is no transmission of virus. Apart from that we are maintaining a strict watch in the affected area,” Gupta said.
 
 Principal secretary, health,  , was worried by the sudden rise of the mosquito menace. “Gandhinagar being green has mosquitoes and for that we have intensified anti-larva and anti-vector activities across the VGGS venue and the city. This intensive activity will also help curb vector-borne diseases in the coming summer months,” Kumar said. 
 
 
