KOTTAYAM: Many in his village can't differentiate between ITI and IIT. And Abhilash Kar from   village in Orissa is not really surprised. He explains that, leave alone engineers, there are hardly any science graduates in his village of 1,000 persons.

 Kar, who is being coached at JNV, Kottayam, got 23rd rank in IIT (Main) in the general category this year.“When I say that I am preparing for IIT, my people think I am studying for ITI. Most of them do not yet understand that education is the only resource to change our destiny,“ said Kar, whose father is a small farmer and mother an ad-hoc school teacher.
 
 Kar believes that he was lucky to be born to a school-teacher mother.“She had heard about JNV and how it changes poor student's destiny. Seeing my commitment to study, she advised me to get into JNV and once in JNV you come across so many success stories that you learn to study with love to pursue your life's dream,“ he said.
 
 If Kar's mother advised him to join JNV, for   from Sonbhadra, Uttar Pradesh, it was a chance meeting with the first IITian in the village when he was in primary class that charted his destiny. The year was 2008 and he distinctly remembers it as it was the first time when he and other villagers first heard about IIT. A poor village boy, a farmer's son, who studied in JNV, Uttar Pradesh, made it to IIT.
 
 Inspired by story, Singh met him and his advice has been the golden word that changed his life. “He advised me that if I wanted to get free from a life of poverty then I should study hard and get admission to JNV in class VI. Once in JNV, with hard work I knew I can be moulded for IIT,“ said Singh, who is the first person from the family to opt for science stream.
 
 “My family still doesn't understand the importance of education.But nevertheless they have started supporting me and are happy with my achievements,“ said Singh.
 
 They are part of the 2015 batch that has been selected for two-year IIT coaching at JNV, Kottayam and appeared for JEE exams this year. Almost all the 99 students have similar stories to tell. Many come from similar background, with poor parents struggling to meet day's expenses and siblings dropping out of school as there was no money left to fund their education. Most of them said their monthly family income is anything between Rs 3,000 and Rs 5000.
 
 “We were lucky to have been selected by   for IIT coaching. I want everyone in my village to study hard and change their future. After I give JEE (Advanced), I will go home and go around talking to the children to study hard and get into JNV for a better future. Education is power and everyone needs to know this,“ added Prashant Shisodia from Bulandshahr, Uttar Pradesh.
 
