CHENNAI: Residents of Koovathur village, some 85 km from Chennai, are uncomfortable with the glare of the media spotlight that has become a part of their lives for the last two days. But they understand that the nearly 120   who have been camping at the beach resort here since Wednesday night are high-value human beings that the party leadership has apparently sequestered.On Friday , around 11am, some 15 MLAs met reporters to say they had not been kidnapped or confined by force.

 The MLAs said they had switched off their phones as they had been receiving calls from unknown people. “Initially callers were polite but as time passed, they started abusing. We have no option other than to switch off our mobile phones,“ said Krishnarayapuram MLA M Geetha.
 
 Several SUVs carrying   party flags with fancy registration numbers have been zipping in and out of the Koovathur resort for the past two days. Partymen owing allegiance to   have ensured that the only road that leads to the resort is blocked.
 
 Sources said the AIADMK men keeping guard permitted pro-Sasikala MLAs to address the media while the legislators, who were not happy with Sasikala's leadership, have been confined at the resort. Meanwhile, a section of the villagers staying near the resort said they saw a few men in white shirt and dhoties having animated discussions while hurrying in and out of the rooms. They also said the three luxury buses that transported them have been parked inside the resort.
 
 Sources said a temporary mobile jammer has been installed on the resort premises to prevent MLAs from establishing contact with the outside world. A police officer of DGP rank was prevented by the residents from entering the resort on Friday night. The lo cal residents blocked his jeep and when reporters approached him he declined to comment and left hurriedly.
 
 S Kaliamoorthy, who runs a poultry farm, said normal life of the morethan 100 families living in and around the resort has been thrown out of gear.“Since Wednesday we have been witnessing speeding cars and jeeps going into and coming out of the resort. There is no police protection. The streetlights and lights around the resort have been put off for the past two days,“ said Kalimoorthy .
 
 A woman farm labourer said the local people have been affected by the unauthorised security cordon thrown by the resort management and partymen. The local villagers have decided to stage a protest on Saturday if the situation persists tomorrow.
 
