NEW DELHI: President   has returned the minimum wages amendment bill, passed by Delhi assembly in 2015, for reconsideration. The Minimum Wages (Delhi) Amendment Bill, 2015, sought to introduce stringent punishment for denying stipulated minimum wages to labourers.

 The bill recommended imprisonment of up to three years and a penalty amounting to Rs 50,000 for violators. As of now, the penalty is a meagre Rs 500 and jail term, six months.
 
 In the assembly on Thursday, Speaker Ram Niwas Goel said: “We have received a letter from Lt Governor (Anil Baijal) dated March 8, wherein he has apprised me that the President has returned the Minimum Wages (Delhi) Amendment Bill, 2015, for reconsideration.” 
 
 The development comes a day after the   tabled its budget in the assembly. In the budget, the government had described its recent notification of enhanced minimum wages as a “landmark decision”. The state had sought to increase minimum wages by up to 37% for unskilled, semi-skilled and skilled labour. For unskilled labour, the wages would have gone up from Rs 9,724 to Rs 13,350 a month; for semi-skilled, it would have risen from Rs 10,764 to Rs 14,698. Skilled labour would have earned Rs 16,182 a month, instead of Rs 11,830.
 
 Labour minister Gopal Rai claimed before the House that the President’s decision to send back the bill for reconsideration would have no bearing on implementation of the recent notification. “The financial condition of labourers in Delhi is quite bad. Keeping this in mind, minimum wages were hiked recently. But the biggest problem has been violation of the law and lack of options to penalise violators.” Rai said the returning of the bill was unfortunate. “We will sit with the CM and work out the details and resend it,” he added. 
 
 He pointed that the bill was returned once before by LG and the requisite changes were made and sent back. Rai said, “I don’t know the reasons yet as the file has yet to come to me. We will work on the bill once the file arrives.”
 
 He said the government would keep pushing for getting the amendment through to introduce tougher penalty provisions. Under the proposed amendments, companies will also have to upload the data of their employees on their websites in a manner prescribed by the  .
 
