GURUGRAM: City authorities are planning to carry out a survey of Badshapur drain to ascertain if any   has taken place on it. This, after the   (NGT) instructed the offices of MCG and the deputy commissioner to check for encroachment over the drain. 

 Sources in the offices of the deputy commissioner and MCG told TOI there is a difference between records with the revenue department and the corporation. “We are struggling to locate the encroachment by builders on Badshapur drain, which is why we are now planning to carry out a survey to evaluate the exact area encroached upon,” said an MCG official, requesting anonymity. 
 
 On March 22, city-based green activists moved the NGT, demanding immediate removal of encroachments, and cancellation of licences as well as change in land use, which were granted as per the   (GMUC) 2031 plan.
 
 The greens alleged there is encroachment over kost/Badshapur nallah, passing through khasra number 86 at Gwalpahari in Gurgaon, as well as its feeder tributaries in catchment areas and other nallahs in the city.
 
 “The authorities don’t have any record on which developer has encroached on how much area. Badshapur drain is one of the city’s most important drains, as it slows down the flow of storm water through the city, increasing the water holding and groundwater recharge capacities. Encroachment on the nallah has led to its reduction, as well as its recharging and carrying capacity, which can lead to massive floods in the city. We have already had a nightmarish experienced in July 2016,” said Vaishali, a petitioner.
 
 Going by a Survey of India map of Gurgaon district from 1976, the 29km-long Badshapur nallah originates in South Delhi in the Mehrauli area, and enters Gurgaon near   across the Gurgaon-Faridabad highway, and flows into Ghata bandh.
 
 From Ghata bandh, the nallah meanders towards Sohna road, where it is joined by other feeder streams and tributaries from the east and west. From Sohna road, it eventually crosses NH-8, goes beyond to re-enter Delhi, and finally drains into Najafagarh drain. The catchment area of Badshapur nallah and its tributaries cover most of the city. 
 
 The average width of the drain varies between 15 and 40 metres.
 
 
