RAJKOT: In a queer case, a man, who had allegedly murdered a 20-year-old in a village of  , made a vain bid to fox the police by resorting to brief activism and sitting on dharna outside the police station demanding the arrest of the “accused.” 

 The accused   had brutally stabbed his neighbour Naresh Bhaskar to death at the latter’s farm in   village over some personal dispute on Saturday. He then dumped Bhaskar’s body in a canal about a kilometre away from the farm. There were 27 stab wounds on the deceased’s body.
 
 On Sunday morning, anger swept the village when some people spotted the body. A group of villagers, which included Jitendra, went to Vadiya police station and demanded a fair probe in the case. However, the most vociferous among them was Parmar himself. To avoid any suspicion, Jitendra resorted to some activisim by creating an uproar over the murder and demanding immediate arrest of the accused, said  , dalit rights activist and a lawyer in Amreli. 
 
 “Jitendra himself initiated the protest and told police that Bhaskar’s body won’t be accepted unless the culprits are caught,” said Parmar.
 
 However, police found Jitendra’s behaviour suspicious and started asking him about his whereabouts when Bhaskar was murdered. Jitendra started fumbling, which strengthened suspicion of the police and they ultimately grilled him, who then confessed to the crime. 
 
 Sources in Amreli police said that Bhaskar and Parmar had an ugly fight on Saturday and eight persons attacked the victim with a sword and sharp-edged weapons. “It has been revealed in primary investigation and postmortem report that Parmar had sustained 27 injury marks on his body. All the injury marks were the result of stabbing with sharp-edged weapons,” said sources. 
 
 “Earlier, the dalit community members got agitated over the death suspecting involvement of some upper caste people. But later it turned out to be an internal tiff between the two dalit families,” sources said. 
 
 Jitendra was booked for murder and the deceased’s family too accepted his body for cremation.
 
 
