KOLKATA: Why is it that no one since C V Raman in 1930 has won the   for  ? President   did not hide his disappointment that upgrade in higher education in the country was restricted to mere brick-and-mortar infrastructural growth, with hardly any focus on research that has resulted in the country’s barren run for Nobel for decades. 

 Mukherjee was speaking at the   celebrations of   organized at Nazrul Mancha on Friday.
 
 Just before the President took the dais, state education minister Partha Chatterjee had spoken at length how his government treated education as priority, increasing the number of universities and colleges, in turn, raising the number of seats in higher education. As he ended his speech, President Mukherjee got up to speak: “I am a visitor of 126 universities. But I feel all we have done is created some infrastructure…assets… without giving the right stress on innovation and research. We need to think out of the box for life-changing solutions that will bring us global recognition. Why have Indian scientists not won Nobels after Raman? No Indian university has managed to get us the coveted prize. Not that we don’t have talent. Indians who, have finished their graduation and post-graduation here and moved to foreign universities, have done pioneering work there to win Nobels.” 
 
 Citing the examples of Amartya Sen, Hargovind Khurana and  , he was emphatic in his request to policy-makers to recognize this as a serious lacunae in the higher education scene of the country that needed to be filled up as fast as possible.
 
 Mukherjee reiterated the need for “innovation and research” later in the evening, when he spoke at the Presidency University’s bicentenary celebrations. It didn’t make sense to produce students, who would further the interests of multinational companies, he felt. “I had once asked an IIT director if his institute was ranked among the best 100 in the world. He said no. It struck me: does it make sense to sell our best brains to multinationals? Do we need our IIT graduates to inflate the sales proceeds of detergents? Or, should they be in the laboratories carrying out research and fundamental work?” Mukherjee said.
 
 Back at the Hindu School event, he went on to remind the audience of the contributions of Hindu School as well as Presidency College, both of which completed two centuries of their glorious existence on Friday. “Together, the two institutions helped the country evolve. It is from their ramparts that renaissance dawned… and changed the way that India looked at life, living and learning,” the President said.
 
 He urged Presidency University to be the top-most educational institution in the country. “Presidency creates an emotion. It is like Shangri La, Babylon and Hiroshima. Presidency connotes more than just an academic institution or a brick-and-mortar building,” Mukherjee said.
 
 
