SHIMLA:   has forced the state government to act against the officials involved in the investigation of   and murder case. Within hours of the state high court entrusting the investigation of the case to  , the state government transferred Inspector General of Police (IGP), Zahur H Zaidi, who was heading the Special Investigation Team and Additional SP Bhajan Dev Negi who was the member of SIT along with Shimla SP D W Negi.

 Their transfer orders were issued on late Wednesday night. Zaidi who was posted as IGP, Southern Range at Shimla, has been posted as IGP, Welfare and Administration at police headquarter at Shimla. IGP, Central Range at Mandi, has been given the additional charge of IGP Southern Range.
 
 Shimla SP D W Negi, who was known for his alleged close proximity to chief minister Virbhadra Singh, has been posted as SP at State Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau in Shimla. Sirmaur SP Soumya Sambasivan has been posted as Shimla SP and she assumed charge on Thursday morning. Shimla Additional SP Bhajan Dev Negi has been asked to report at police headquarter Shimla for his further posting.
 
 The Himachal Pradesh high court has directed the CBI to not only probe the gangrape and murder case of the minor but also the murder of one of the co-accused inside the police lockup. Court has also directed the CBI to probe the role played by the officers, officials, functionaries of the state, in connection thereof.
 
 A division bench of acting chief justice Sanjay Karol and justice Sandeep Sharma, on Wednesday, had directed the CBI director to constitute a Special Investigation Team (SIT) forthwith, constituting no less than three officers, headed by the superintendent of police with two other officers not below the rank of deputy superintendent of police and immediately start the investigation.
 
 The court had also directed that record pertaining to the investigation conducted so far by the SIT constituted by the state be handed over to the CBI SIT. It said that the state shall ensure that the entire evidence is preserved, protected and not tampered with.
 
 The Court had also directed the state chief secretary to ensure that appropriate action is taken against the erring officials, officers, functionaries of the state, in accordance with law. “Within a period of two weeks from today, he shall independently examine the matter and take appropriate action,” it added.
 
 
