MUMBAI: A   which entered the   of a  , in  ,  ,  , died of a cardiac arrest while being moved out of the village. 

 Ratnagiri forester Nahnu Gawde said, “The female leopard entered the house of Viswanath Bane, whose family had come visiting for a few days. On seeing it around 9am, they closed both the front and rear doors. Later, a panchayat samiti member informed us. Our team reached around 10am and rescue operations ended at 2.30pm.” Forest officials managed to trap the 10-month old feline after a four-hour operation, but it died while being moved out on Wednesday.
 
 Ratnagiri forest department does not have a tranquilizer gun. “Attempts were made to use a funnel-type tranquilizer. But we could not succeed as the leopard moved in and out of the rooms,” Gawde said. He added, “The leopard continued to move between the two floors of the ground-plus-one storey structure through a staircase. Two cages were set up at both doors. It first entered one of the cages but went back into the house before the shutter could be closed. Noise created by those assembled scared the animal. But our team finally managed to cage the leopard.” When the leopard was finally brought out of the remote village it was found to be without any injury. However, it died after being moved around 1.5km. 
 
 Gawde said, “The leopard died of cardiac arrest. The post-mortem report also pointed to the same. Felines fear human beings and the noise created by those assembled terrified the animal.” 
 
 Wildlife expert Pawan Sharma of Resqink Association for Wildlife Welfare said, “It is standard operating procedure that if a leopard has strayed into a house or any other indoor area, it should be tranquilized with darts and then safely captured and taken back to the forest. The wild animal will certainly become terrified if a dozen people are aggressively shouting and poking sticks to push it into a corner.”
 
 Experts also said since a scheduled wildlife predator like a leopard has minimal human interaction, it is suggested that after a leopard is sedated and captured from a human habitat, its cage should be covered with a cloth till it is transported back into the core forest area for being released. Care should also be taken that it does not get injured en-route due to an ill-fitting or improper metal cage.
 
