PATNA: In spite of   (PMC) taking up various initiatives to make the city spick and span, a few places in the state capital tell altogether a different story.
 
  For instance, an empty plot on Road number 3 ‘A’ of   is virtually a  . Filled with plastic bags and trash, the place stinks even from a distance. “I thought Pataliputra to be a posh colony. So, I decided to shift here. I was wrong and now I am looking for another accommodation,” said homemaker  , who stays in that locality.
  
  Tripathi said the condition is so bad that she feels ashamed in inviting her relatives and friends to her residence and remains worried for her children, who might get infected.
  
  Another resident, YM Khan, a retired government engineer, said he had been running from pillar to post to get the area cleaned. “I have miserably failed in my efforts,” Khan said, showing a copy of the letter he had written to the officials of urban development and housing department and PMC. The irony is that near the vast garbage dump is a poster informing people about Swachh Bharat Mission and asking them to use dustbins to throw the trash.
  
  It’s not only the residents of Pataliputra Colony who are facing garbage problem in their locality. The same is the condition of Samanpura where garbage piles, especially on vacant plots of land, are common sight. Owner of a chicken shop adjacent to one such plot near Sangam apartment, Aquil Ahmad said for years he had been trying all possible ways to get the plot cleaned, but nothing happened. The condition has become worst as the dumped garbage now looks like a small plateau.
  
  “There are many VIPs in this locality, but the area remains neglected. Apart from garbage problem, there are no street lights and approach roads in this locality,” said another resident Aftab Alam.
  
  People residing near Devi Sthan in Bhikhna Pahari, Saidpur Mor, Machhua Toli and Kadamkuan also face the same problem. Worse is the condition of those places which have vegetable and fruit markets in their vicinity.
