AJMER: For the third time on Wednesday, Rajasthan   (RPSC) declared March 27 and 28 as new dates of   (RAS)-2016 main examination this year. Previously, the examination was scheduled on January 28 and 29 but   cancelled those dates and now announced new dates for the examination will be conducted in every divisional headquarter of state. RPSC will release detailed programme of this examination in coming days.

 Sources said RPSC has not clarified the status of Special Backward Class (SBC) reservation but has taken legal opinion of experts after the   made status quo on the decision of Rajasthan High Court. Sources said there are possibilities that no reservation of SBC candidates will be kept during announcement of RAS main examination- 2016 results.
 
 There were 3.3 lakh candidates appeared in the first phase of RAS preliminary examination-2016 and RPSC declared the result within record 17 days and announced 1,146candidates as eligible for RAS main examination-2016. The commission is conducting this examination to recruit officers of 391 administrative and allied posts of state government. The examination will be held in two sessions — from 9 am to 12 pm and from 2 pm to 5 pm in evening — in Ajmer, Jaipur, Bikaner, Bharatpur, Kota, Jodhpur and Udaipur.
 
 Earlier, RPSC scheduled dates of RAS main examination as December 26 and 27 last year and later changed it to March 28 and 29 this year. But these dates were cancelled on January 23and new dates were announced Wednesday. The full bench of RPSC gathered and discussed the issue of giving reservation to SBC candidates. AS the high court declined the reservation law stating that it increases the reservation percentage in government jobs more than fifty percent and later the Supreme Court ordered status quo.
 
 Sources added that because of this change in reservation after orders of high court, commission has to work out on every selection examination according to new pattern. “Commission has taken advice of legal experts to initiate the process of selection in the state,” said an official source.
 
