BENGALURU: A Mysuru woman IT professional, who was among the critically injured in a deadly incident in Melbourne last week when a man intentionally hit pedestrians with his car and killed five persons, is recovering, her husband said in a Facebook post.

 Seven of the 31 injured remain in a critical condition and have suffered life-threatening injuries.
 
 Nethra Krishnamurthy, believed to be in her 30s, was returning to office after breastfeeding her eight-month-old baby boy in a daycare when she was run over by the speeding driver. She was admitted to the ICU at Alfred Hospital. According to the fundraising page set up by a family friend, Nethra sustained serious injuries, including deep lacerations to her head, a punctured lung, damage to her liver and kidneys, as well as broken ribs and three fractures to her spine. “Yes, I was with her when this happened. I was lucky to miss the impact but unlucky enough to witness the massacre firsthand,“ Nethra's husband Mohan Kumar said in the post on Monday.
 
 Nethra, who had her schooling in Kalaburagi, graduated from National Institute of Engineering, Mysuru, and is working as an integration developer in Mexia Consulting. Updating anxious friends and family about his wife's wellbeing, Mohan said Nethra has been very strong throughout the treatment. He said she was taken off the ventilator on Sunday and the nasogastric and lung tubes were removed on Monday. “She is now on lower sedation which means, she's been able to be awake and be aware of things going on around,“ he said, adding she was able to talk and drink fluids on Monday.
 
 “On the flip side, our baby boy, Hari, was in daycare when all this started and currently is with our friends and in the best possible care. His grandmother has also arrived on Sunday night to take care of him,“ he said. “Given the severity of her injuries, Nethra will remain in hospital for quite some time, and following this will have a long road to recovery, both physically and psychologically,“ the fund-raising page said.
 
 Meanwhile, the 26-year old  , accused of killing five people in the last week's rampage, was due to appear in court but his lawyer saying he is too unwell to attend. Gargasoulas has been charged with five counts of murder over the deaths of pedestrians allegedly hit by a stolen car he drove through Melbourne's Central Business District.
 
