KOLKATA: All of Budget-day morning, Sima Roy Chowdhury sat glued to the television, hoping to hear something from the government on  . Neither was the issue mentioned, nor was there any talk about   to families who had paid dearly for it.

 It's been two months since Sima's husband Kallol Roy Chowdhury -an upper division clerk of the land revenue department in Cooch Behar's Changrabandh -died in an ATM queue in Bandel on December 3. A month back, on January 2, Sima took up the job of a lower division clerk at the land and land reforms department that chief minister   had offered to her.
 
 Saraswati Puja has always been celebrated at the Roy Chowdhury residence. But this year was an exception. “I was hoping that the government would say something about the outcome of demonetisation. They took such stringent measures for which I lost everything in my life. But not a single word was uttered on that. It seemed as if the loss of our families didn't bother the government at all,“ she said.
 
 Fifty-two-year-old Kallol was returning to his Behala home for the weekend that fateful evening when he queued up at the ATM near Bandel station, where he had disembarked to change trains.
 
 Kallol lay writhing in pain for 30 minutes before an ambulance took him to hospital, where he was declared brought dead. The apathy of people still haunts Sima, but she hasn't lost faith in humanity . Recounting that dreadful evening, Sima Roy Chowdhury said: “Kal lol had seen there were only seven people in the queue and decided to   What is unbelievable is the way people reacted when he lay on the ground. I can still understand the compulsions of those who were waiting to withdraw money. But what about those who had al ready withdrawn cash? Couldn't one of them come forward to help him? He would have survived had he been taken to hospital earlier.“
 
 Today, Sima plays the dual role of an office-going single mother. “It was only because of Mamata Banerjee that I got a job so soon. My colleagues are very helpful and are extending all support so that I can balance my home and office,“ she said.
 
 Ten-year-old Subhadip, who is in Class V, is slowly coping with the loss. “He do esn't understand what demonetisation is. But he has become paranoid of the word ATM. He doesn't want me to go to an ATM counter. If I insist, he says he will accompany me. He keeps on saying that when he grows up, he will invent a machine to find out why his father had to die this way in an ATM queue,“ Sima said.
 
 The complete silence of the central government on offering some kind of financial relief to bereaved families has also been a let-down for the Roy Chowdhury family. Sima's brother-in-law Sailen Roy Chowdhury said: “I have also developed the ATM phobia. After that incident, I haven't withdrawn money from any ATM. It is a heartless government at the Centre. My sister-in-law will only get a basic pay for two years.Is that enough to run a family? The central government's faulty demonetisation policy hasn't been able to curb black money. Families like ours have only got ruined as culprits have continued to convert black money into white.“
 
 
