NEW DELHI:  ' young batting guns boomed big time on Thursday, with TOISA Emerging Player of 2016 (People's Choice)   (97; 43b; 6x4, 9x6) and a dynamic   (61; 31b, 7x6) thrashing the   bowlers all over the Ferozeshah Kotla and helping the hosts chase down a steep 209-run target.

  fell cheaply but the incredible domination from rising stars Samson and Pant enabled the Devils to fashion the third highest successful chase in the  . The duo exploded in the middle overs as Lions skipper Raina seemed to run out of ideas.
 
 Seven sixes were hit between the 10th and 12th over as Delhi's batting troubles this season lay forgotten. Gujarat, as a result, were virtually ejected from the IPL. As it now appears, Lions skipper   will likely to fail to make the play-offs for the first time in his IPL career.
 
 By the 15th over, both Pant and Samson had fallen but Delhi needed less than a run a ball from there on. The six-hitting didn't stop, though, and   and James Faulkner contributed their bit as a massive 31 sixes were hit in the game, 20 by Delhi alone. The moment of the day came when Pant was caught behind on 97 and Raina walked up to him and patted his chest. As Pant then walked back to the pavilion, he was greeted with a standing ovation.
 
 Unlike in the past, when he wanted the hit the ball from the beginning, Pant took a little time to settle down. The dew factor too helped Delhi's run-chase. Earlier, Raina showed that pressure doesn't cramp his usual style, scoring a fluent 43-ball 77 (5x4, 4x6) to help his team accumulate what looked to be an impressive total. The middle-order batsman was dropped twice at the start of his innings, but nothing, it seemed, could dent his confidence.
 
 Raina shared a crucial third-wicket partnership of 133 runs with   (65 off 34 balls, 5X4, 5X6) to put the pressure back on the Daredevils. It was the combined effort of these two batsmen that helped the Lions to lay a solid foundation. Perhaps, they could have scored 20 runs more if the pair had stayed on a bit longer, but the way Pant and Samson batted, it wouldn't have mattered in the end.
 
 For Delhi, it was again the pacers who made it count after spinners Shahbaz Nadeem and Amit Mishra went for runs. Both Kagiso Rabada and Pat Cummins were the saving grace although Moham mad Shami, the hero of the previous match, too proved expensive.
 
