PUDUCHERRY: The ongoing spat between the lieutenant governor   and Congress government headed by chief minister   has led to a polarization of sorts with all politicians closing ranks, realising that once the governor’s powers are spelled out they may not have a role to play in the  .

 Ever since Bedi assumed charge as lt governor of Puducherry in May last year, a Delhi-like scenario has opened up in the Union territory. After several rounds of shadow boxing between the elected government and lt governor to establish their supremacy, the tussle reached a flash point on Tuesday with politicians cutting across party lines joining hands against Bedi.
 
 An all-party meeting convened by the ruling Congress on Tuesday resolved to send a delegation of leaders of various parties and its elected representatives to call on the President, Prime Minister and home minister to brief them on the prevailing political scenario and explain to them that lt governor Kiran Bedi’s actions were against ‘the political, legal and democratic norms’.
 
 More than 20 political parties and non-political forums participated in the meeting which was chaired by public works minister and Puducherry Pradesh Congress committee president A Namassivayam. Chief minister V Narayanasamy, his cabinet colleagues, all elected members of Congress, AIADMK and DMK besides leaders of various political parties attended the meet. BJP and PMK did not attend the meeting while a MLA from All India NR Congress participated in the discussions.
 
 The meeting declared that not just democratically-elected governments in the Centre and States, but also the democratically-elected governments in the Union territories too enjoy absolute power. The meeting passed an unanimous resolution asserting that the elected government in the Union territory of Puducherry has full powers.
 
 A section of political leaders and elected representatives insisted that a resolution be passed, urging the Union government to recall Bedi besides staging black flag protest and holding a bandh to register their protest against her for interfering in the functioning of the government. A majority of them, however, sought to exercise caution in registering their opposition against a constitutional head and suggested that the issue be taken up in a phased manner.
 
 Meanwhile deputy speaker and privileges committee chairman V P Sivakolundhu issued a contempt notice to Bedi’s secretary G Theva Neethi Dhas directing him to appear before it at 4.30pm on April 5 to explain why he should not be charged for contempt of the house for abetting R Chandrasekaran to function as commissioner of Puducherry municipality on April 3, violating the rulings of the Speaker.
 
 Chief secretary Manoj Pardia passed an order following the speaker’s rulings relieving Chandrasekaran of his duty as municipal commissioner and placing him under compulsory wait. The speaker passed the ruling after an AIADMK MLA raised a privilege issue against Chandrasekaran “for infringing on the rights of an elected member besides disrespecting him”.
 
 Bedi through her secretary intervened and declared Parida’s order as ‘invalid’ and directed Chandrasekaran to continue as the commissioner, forcing the privileges committee to issue a contempt notice to Chandrasekaran and Dhas. Chandrasekaran appeared before the committee along with his lawyer and explained his position.
 
 Bedi has been maintaining that she has been acting as per the powers and responsibilities vested with the lt governor / administrator of the Union territory. She argued that holding regular meetings with the territorial officials is part of the duties of the lt governor and cannot be termed as ‘interference’ with the functioning of the government. She said the lt governor did not enjoy ‘constitutional immunity’ under Article 361, which is available to the President and Governors of the States alone and hence lt governor will be responsible for the correctness, regularity and propriety of the decisions taken by the gazetted officers appointed by her.
 
