NEW DELHI: Mohammad Imran ruminated over the   and how it has gained new resonance in recent days. His thoughts were triggered by his visit to  , and though neither an academic or a philosopher, the tailor from Khajuri Khas in north-east Delhi instinctively accepted the relevance of Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi to the nation today. 

 If the crowd at Raj Ghat, which marks the Yamuna bank site of Gandhi’s cremation, indicated anything, it is that India’s people with varied traditions, cultures and ideologies continue to debate on the Gandhi paradigm. By noon on Monday, when the rush of VIPs to the memorial on Gandhi Jayanti had abated, Raj Ghat was teeming with ordinary citizens. Many had come to honour the iconic freedom fighter who shunned violence but got the British to relinquish control over India. Others had taken advantage of the national holiday to enjoy the manicured lawns and an ice cream or two.
 
 Imran, accompanied by wife Mehsar and daughter Sidra, was in a reflective mood. “Education does not always make you tolerant,” he said, “and patience is about developing the ability to listen to others, react cautiously and without aggression. That is what Gandhiji stood for. He did not react, he acted to bring about change.” Thoughts of this nature were presumably uppermost in most minds at Raj Ghat on the day.
 
 Anil Rawat, a young father, had come with his family. The presence of his daughter and son, aged 10 and five, respectively, made him ponder a while. “We were returning from ISBT after dropping a relative and decided to stop here,” Rawat said. “Walking towards the samadhi of Gandhiji, I asked my wife what we wanted our children to take away as a lesson from their visit here. We need to understand the teachings of Gandhi.”
 
 At the stand where shoes are deposited, there was Shruti Agastya from Karnataka. The biochemistry student was touring Delhi with other students from her university. Gandhi’s belief in the freedom of expression and democratic rights seemed to shine out in her remarks. “Why has the entire discourse on India’s freedom come to rest on one man? Others did their bit too,” she argued. “I don’t agree with many thoughts in Gandhi’s ideology. Why just him, there were others too, such as Bhagat Singh and Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose. ”
 
 A little further on, senior citizens, Sant Lal Singh and his wife, were resting under a tree. Visiting their children who live in Delhi, the couple from Vaishali in Bihar were delighted to finally be at Raj Ghat. “I was born in 1947, the year of Independence, and finally got to visit the memorial to a man I grew up hearing and reading about,” said Singh. He added that he would like this grandchild to grow up inculcating the virtue of tolerance.
 
 At another site associated with Gandhi, people similarly explored the concepts of nationhood as expressed by the promoter of non-violence. Anil Kumar, gallery assistant at Gandhi Smriti on Tees January Marg where the Mahatma was assassinated, spun thread from cotton rolls on the charkha at the entrance of the museum complex. A film on Gandhi’s life played to an audience comprising mostly youth and children. A group of students posed with Gandhi’s statue to take the customary selfie and a few others browsed through literature at the museum book store.
 
 Sumitra Mandal, a psychology student, and her friends had come from Badarpur in south Delhi looking for answers on how to be strong while remaining non-violent. She and her friends are training in martial arts to be able to defend themselves at a time fraught with risks for women. “I like the idea of non-violence and tolerance, but with women’s safety such a concern we need to take action. I am a martial arts practitioner and I felt the need to look at Gandhi’s ideology to find a balance between non-violence and self-defence,” the young woman said.
 
 As people shared and discussed such views, Irfan, who sells savouries outside Raj Ghat, had a more down-to-earth pronouncement: “Gandhiji is very special to me as it is because of him I have a livelihood.” As always, the Mahatma seemed to have touched lives that others usually disregard.
 
 
