CHANDIGARH: The   in   has almost finalised its   with a more fortified presence of  's loyalists as ministers.

 The expansion is likely to take place between May 28 and June 1.
 
 The expanded list includes two top powerful and affluent   from Samrala and Surender Dawar from Ludhiana Central. With these plants afoot, Dawar will be the second Hindu face in Amarinder's cabinet apart from health minister and Patiala Rural MLA Brahm Mohindra.
 
 With accusations against AAP on pro-Khalistani leanings, Hindus had voted en masse for the Congress in many crucial seats in Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Amritsar and Pathankot urban areas.
 
 Besides, so far, the signficant Ludhiana district has had no representation in the cabinet. The district holds key to Punjab's revenue with more nearly Rs 4,000-crore VAT generated from this region from hosiery, auto, machinery, auto and other units.
 
 With his assets touching Rs 20 crore, Dhillon, a fourtime MLA, has varied intersts in liquor business and distillery units. Both Dhillon and Dawar are expected to play a crucial role in wooing traders and industrialists of Ludhiana and act as a bridge between them and the government's key policies.
 
 Three-time strong Majha MLA Sukhjinder Randhawa, whose has been one of the most vocal voices against SAD in the Vidhan Sabha, is likely to strengthen the border representation for the Amarinder government.
 
 The CM will vouch for another senior Dalit MLA from Majha, Raj Kumar Verka, who has been heading the National Scheduled Caste Commission for nearly five years. He has also played an instrumental role in dealing with cases on Dalit atrocities in the region.
 
 Another four-time MLA Randeep Nabha may also get a cabinet berth. An almumnus of Sanawar School, Nabha is one of the most academically qualified MLAs with strong PR skills and accessibility in public.
 
 Besides him, UrmurTanda MLA Sangat Singh Gilzian and five-time MLA from Ludhiana North Rakesh Pandey are the other names that have made the cut, according to sources.
 
