MUMBAI: The   ( ) of the   ( ) has mooted re-structuring of Test and One-day cricket and conduct it in a league format to add more context to the games.

 The ICC CEC has proposed a two-tier Test league along with a 13-team league, which will determine the teams who qualify for the 2019 World Cup in UK. The two-tier Test league may have the top nine teams as per ICC rankings in the elite league, while the likes of Zimbabwe, Afghanistan and Ireland scrap in the second tier with a few other associate nations. A regional T20 competition is also being mulled for the World T20. The proposals will now go to the ICC Board.
 
 On Saturday, the ICC will discuss the financial model of the game. But, there's already chaos as far as Indian cricket is concerned because of Friday's developments.
 
 Highly-placed sources in the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) told TOI on Friday that if the new structure is given a go-ahead by the ICC, the   has decided not just to pull out of the ICC Champions Trophy in England in June, but also from all their bilateral commitments.
 
 TOI had reported on Friday that the last option for the BCCI in the present circumstances would be to pull out of the   . The BCCI sources categorically told this paper that that they've not been included in the working group meetings and any decision without keeping the interest of the Indian cricket board in mind won't be accepted.It remains to be seen if the BCCI can indeed put pressure on the ICC and indeed take such drastic steps to protect its interests.
 
 The BCCI still has time to make their next move, as this restructuring of international cricket won't be discussed in the all-powerful ICC Board that will meet in Dubai on Saturday . That meeting is likely to discuss the new financial model of the ICC, which will see the world cricket body do away with the `Big Three model' mooted by ex-ICC chairman N Srinivasan in 2014.
 
 Outside of this, efforts are also being made to stage two Twenty20 World Cups every four years. It effectively means the ICC organising one T20 WC in 2018 and the next in 2022. However, this won't affect Indian cricket's interests despite the fact that a WorldT20 every two years would eat into the IPL window for lack of space in an other wise busy cricket calendar.
 
 Questions though remain whether the Future Tours Programme (FTP) of the ICC will be tinkered with. From what sources in the member board in the ICC had to say , there's every likelihood that the CEC positively discussed the idea of a conference-style Test structure and a newly-devised One-day cricket league, along the lines of Major League Baseball (MLB), which is popular in the US.
 
 However, the mandarins of the BCCI who're part of the ICC meetings in Dubai say that the bilateral structure of Test cricket won't be tinkered with. The BCCI says that India will retain its right to decide who they play with and who they don't. In other words, sources in the BCCI say that India will manage to retain the space that it has created for its newly-found home season.
 
 
