NEW DELHI: Facing contempt proceedings for purportedly seeking the International Cricket Council's (ICC) opinion against implementation of Justice Lodha panel's reform recommendations, sacked   president   told the Supreme Court that the 'contemptuous" portion of his October 15, 2016 affidavit was dictated by   chief  .

 The SC had initiated contempt proceedings against Thakur for purportedly seeking a letter from Manohar to the effect that implementation of Lodha panel's recommendation for appointment of a nominee of the   in BCCI would be tantamount to government interference in the board's affairs, which could become a ground for BCCI's suspension by the ICC. The SC had also taken umbrage to Thakur's alleged attempts to stall implementation of reforms recommended by the panel and accepted by the court.
 
 Clearing the impression created before the court that he had attempted to step around the court's decision, Thakur narrated the sequence of events leading to filing of the October 15 affidavit.
 
 "During my visit to Cape Town, South Africa, on October 12, 2016 for an ICC meeting, I brought the order of the SC to the notice of ICC chairman Shashank Manohar and showed Manohar the points and basis on which I was going to depose in the affidavit before the SC with a view to ensure that the discussion that had taken place was accurately placed on record before the court," Thakur said in his affidavit filed through advocate  .
 
 "Thereafter, Manohar personally dictated a portion of my affidavit. The dictation was taken down by my executive assistant   in my presence. At the end of this dictation, Manohar had also remarked that it was natural for me (Thakur) to ask him (Manohar) for a clarification as I was not a lawyer and did not understand the nitty gritties of the issue. Accordingly, para 3 and 4 of my affidavit dated October 15, 2016 filed before the Supreme Court are based on the dictation of Manohar," he added.
 
 Thakur said ICC CEO David Richardson was in the loop and he too agreed with the portion dictated by Manohar. " After conclusion of the dictation of Manohar, I forwarded the dictated paragraph to David Richardson from my email account on October 14, 2016 with a request to confirm (correctness of) the contents."
 
 "David Richardson by way of email dated October 14, 2016 confirmed the facts and events which took place as mentioned in my email to him," Thakur said and attached a copy of the email with his recent affidavit before the SC. "Based on the contents of the email sent by me, it was told to the SC that I (Thakur) had tried to mislead the court and had committed perjury and contempt," he added.
 
 Thakur said his only endeavour was to present the correct picture. "At no point of time did the deponent (Thakur) ever seek out any other letter from the chairman of ICC other than the letter clarifying the position which Manohar had taken as BCCI president as has already been stated in the October 15 affidavit."
 
 The former BCCI president said after getting Manohar's explanation, he did not pursue the matter any further. "However, the SC was pleased to initiate suo motu criminal prosecution and contempt proceedings against the deponent without hearing the version of events being repeatedly pleaded by the senior counsel appearing for BCCI ( )," Thakur said. "If the aforesaid action of seeking a clarificatory letter has created an impression that he would seek to undermine the judgment of the Supreme Court or that he has committed perjury or contempt, then the same is absolutely incorrect as this was never the intention of the deponent," he added.
 
 
 
 The Supreme Court on Friday agreed to drop contempt proceedings against former BCCI president Anurag Thakur but asked him to tender an "unconditional and unambiguous" apology for allegedly misleading the court by making false statements and obstructing implementation of Justice Lodha committee's report on reforms in cricket administration.
 
 Though Thakur has already filed an affidavit tendering apology, a bench of Justices Dipak Misra, A M Khanwilkar and D Y Chandrachud was not satisfied with its contents and directed him to tender an unconditional apology "with no ifs and buts". It posted the case for hearing on July 14 and asked the MP to be present before it.
 
 The apex court had held Thakur prima facie guilty of contempt for misleading the court and obstructing implementation of its July 18 order.
 
