NEW DELHI: Congress leader Rahul Gandhi described the party’s 
  
  
   






 as a “little down in UP” and said structural changes were required, even as senior leader Satyavrat Chaturvedi said it was too late for correctives and resentment surfaced over the “mishandling” of Goa. On UP, where the 
  
  
   






, of which the Congress got seven, Rahul said ups and downs in politics were normal. He said the Congress had won in Punjab, Manipur and Goa. “That is not a bad result. It is true that we lost the election in UP and Uttarakhand... We had a little down in UP which is fine, we accept it,” he said. But Chaturvedi, the Congress chief whip in RS, said, “The time for surgery has passed in the Congress. If a surgery was done in time, it would not have come to this pass.” Inacryptic comment seen as a dig at Rahul’s leadership, Chaturvedi added, “Rahul should think in the wider interest of Congress. I don’t consider it fair to offer advice. Questions arise when there is defeat... Rahul has to answer this.” While Congress has been left stunned by the scale of its defeats in 
  
  
   






 and 
  
  
   






 and BJP’s massive mandate in both states, there was fresh trouble as its Goa leaders bitterly complained that the party was slow in roping in support despite having won more seats than BJP.  They said the swearing-in of the Parrikar government was the result of dithering on the part of party seniors. Congress members from the state said the party’s failure to elect a leader and conclude negotiations with the Goa Forward Party had allowed BJP to steal a march despite GFP having campaigned against the incumbent government. Congress MLAs blamed the high command for not acting on GFP’s suggestion that it could extend support if a CM of its choice was agreed on. Rahul’s advocacy of organisational surgery was met with an indifferent response from the party, which has been waiting for new ideas since the 2014 Lok Sabha defeat.  “As far as Congress is concerned, we do need to make structural and organisational changes and that is a fact,” Rahul said on Tuesday. On Sunday, senior member P Chidambaram acknowledged that 
  
  
   






. Former MP Sandeep Dikshit has said the results mean that it 
  
  
   






 . Rahul attributed the massive BJP victory in UP to 
   


. “Why they (BJP) won it? There are multiple reasons. Large part of it is polarisation,” he said. But, increasingly, many in the party are not satisfied by such explanations, even though most concede discontent is unlikely to pose a serious challenge to Rahul. The reaction from the Congress heir apparent was on predictable lines, with organisational surgery spoken about many times since the LS decimation. This time, it evoked scepticism. It is now certain that the Congress organisation will see the much-awaited rejig and there is a view that office-bearers should tender their resignations to give Rahul a free hand to restructure the party. Meanwhile, Congress general secretary B K Hariprasad resigned from the AICC office, owing “moral responsibility” for the wipeout in the Odisha civic polls.