THANE: The Thane forest department has roped in a city-based non government organisation (NGO) to transform a 19-hectare stretch of land near the   in   to a lush green forest land. 

 The afforestation project titled Devrai for the land in Vrinda area will be worked upon by volunteers from the Paryavaran Dakshata Manch. 
 
 Volunteers have already started studying the topography and planning species of local trees and saplings to be planted in this pocket. 
 
 “The main aim of this project is to bring back the green cover the district was known for. The only way to do so is by planting saplings that will thrive in this region. The 19-hectare plot of land already has some trees and the Kalu river running alongside ensures enough water supply to make the afforestation project successful. We have begun studying the soil, water and other aspects of the land and will begin planting appropriate saplings soon after,” said Sangita Joshi, NGO member.
 
 This project, which will be carried out in a span of seven years before the land is handed back to the forest department, will not only include the plantation of local species of trees in the area, but also initiatives like soil conservation and so on.
 
 “In order to truly make the ecosystem self-sufficient, we will not only carry out tree plantation, but also undertake activities like building check dams to ensure adequate water supply all year round, conduct soil conservation to prevent erosion along the river-side and so on,” added Joshi.
 
 With the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) reports revealing a steady depletion in the green cover in the state, including Mumbai and Thane regions over the years, the forest department has not only pulled up their socks and begun a string of afforestation drives, but also sought public participation to help sustain their projects.
 
 An official from the forest department, said, “One of the main projects of the forest department currently is increasing the forest cover in the entire state. In order to obtain this objective, we already conducted a state-wide tree plantation drive last July and will be carrying out another one on a larger scale this year. However, for the success of these projects, public participation is essential.” 
 
 Joshi said that they were also seeking participation from local citizens to conserve the up-and-coming forest land.
 
