JAMSHEDPUR: The construction of the much-awaited  , that is likely to come up at   located in the outskirts of the urban circle in  , with an estimated investment of Rs 33 crore will begin soon.

 The implementing agency at the local level,   (JNAC), will be through with the administrative process and will invite tenders for awarding contract to the construction company. The fresh detailed project report (DPR) of the treatment plant has been finalized and will be submitted to the government for approval subsequent to which construction will begin, sources in JNAC said.
 
 “The company that was previously executing the construction work has been penalized for quitting the project mid-way,” said Deepak Sahay, special officer, JNAC said.
 
 Sahay added that the plant, which will be set up over 30 acres of land in Khairbani, will also have garbage collection centres at six different places across two notified area limits of Mango and Jamshedpur.
 
 “Two waste collection centres in Kadma and Mango will be set up. The government has transferred the land in advance for this purpose,” the JNAC official said.
 
 The vehicles collecting waste from residential and commercial areas will dump the waste at the area collection centre, from where the composite waste disposal van will shift the garbage to the treatment plant.
 
 Conceived in 2011 under Jawarharlal Nehru Urban National Renewal Mission (JNNURM), the waste plant was expected to complete in a year’s time. However, problems in acquiring land and subsequently opposition from the local people at regular intervals apparently forced private company SMPL to abandon the work mid-way.
 
 “The company has not specified the reasons behind quitting the project, hence, we have seized the bank guarantee of Rs 1.66 crore which the company had deposited with the government in lieu of the contract,” Sahay said.
 
 In response to a query, Sahay said there’s no opposition to the proposed treatment plant from the local people living in the vicinity of the approved site. 
 
