PUNE: Sitting on the stairs of his newly allocated house,   (38) cannot help but think of the  , which claimed all his family members except his mother who fortunately had set out early on the fateful morning to inspect their farms.

 He does not feel happy about getting a new house. “The emotions I shared for my home in Malin cannot be rehabilitated,” Viranak said, while complaining that the new houses are too small to accommodate the survivors, most of who stay in joint families.
 
 “The rooms are too small. If one puts a double bed in the bedroom, there is space for walking. Even the water facility is not proper. The piping is done, but there is no water. They should have worked to create a water resource while planning the model of the village,” Viranak said.
 
 Vaijanta Zanjare, another survivor, remembers hearing a huge explosion and the dead silence that followed on July 30, 2014. When she stepped out of her house to see what had happened, she just saw mud, uprooted trees and rocks in the place of the houses that once existed. Her family was one of those fortunate ones who survived unhurt. She is also not happy with the new accommodation. “I live in a joint family. We are a family of eight and it is not possible for us to live in a house that is so small,” she said. The administration should have paid more attention to water supply here, she added.
 
 Vitthal Zanjare (80) spent most of his life living in the Malin village. He said staying in a small 1-BHK flat with a family of 12. “I tried to convince the officials to allocate my family a bigger house, but all in vain. How can they expect us all to live in such a small house?” he asked.
 
 But not everyone is complaining. Pramila Lembe, who survived the tragedy after being stuck under the mud for almost eight hours, loves her new home. “I survived holding my three-month old and lost almost everything in the tragedy. The new houses, which officials claim are earthquake resistant, give me hope for a better life,” she said.
 
  School in a colourful avatar
 
 Bathed in bright colours, the new   is a major attraction for anyone who visits the rehabilitated village. The ground floor in the double-storey building is allocated for standard I-V classes, while the first floor has a huge hall with a kitchen that will serve as an 'anganwadi’. Separate toilets for girls and boys have been built outside the school.
 
 Well-equipped with overhead projectors, new desks and computers, the school has become a talking point among children. Roshan Zanjure, a standard V student said, “I love this school. It is bright, colourful and has more space to play. Even the desks are new and colourful here.”
 
