THRISSUR: Electricity minister  's statement in the assembly on the   has evoked strong   among the groups engaged in  .

 The Chalakkudy River Protection Forum (CRPF) activists said that while the state is facing an acute shortage, the immediate priority of the government should be to conserve water and utilise it for essential needs. If anyone seriously makes a statement on dam construction and power generation now, we can only say that it smacks of derision to the concerns for the people, said M Mohandas leader of the CRPF.
 
 He pointed out that apart from monsoon failure, the water scenario in the Chalakkudy basin has been made grim by the violation of the Parambikkulam-Aliyar Project (PAP) agreement by  , and denying the rightful share of water to Kerala.
 
 However, the judicious management of available water by the Kerala state electricity board (KSEB) would have reduced the crisis significantly. Currently, KSEB is releasing water in a fluctuating manner for generating electricity at the 52mw hydel-power unit at Peringalkoothu, according to Mohandas.
 
 As per recent figures, Kerala Sholayar reservoir stores over 94 million cubic meters of water while the Peringalkoothu dam has a stock of six million cubic meters. It would have been possible to release one million cubic meters of water till April 31 from these reservoirs. But studies indicate that the KSEB is not releasing this much water on several days, activists say.
 
 Actually, it would have been cheaper and helpful to the people if KSEB chose to buy power from outside, considering the acute drought situation. The fluctuation in the quantity of water released from Perin galkoothu also leads to complete deprivation of water to areas at the tail end of the river, Mohandas said.
 
 He disclosed that about 30 local bodies in that area had together submitted a request to the KSEB to adopt a judicious water management strategy so that the people downstream would get steady supply. But the KSEB has not responded so far.
 
 S P Ravi, another leader of the forum, said contrary to Mani's claims that the project would only cost Rs 936 crore, even earlier estimates had pegged the cost at Rs 1,500 crore. “Several studies have also highlighted the massive environmental damage, including destruction of 138 hectares of forest, likely to be caused by the project,“ he said.
 
