COIMBATORE: The   on Monday nabbed a person who they believe executed the murder of a security guard at the   of former chief minister  

  He was questioned by deputy inspector general of police   and Nilgiris superintendent of police Murali Rambha. Later, he was taken to the estate to record the sequence of events that took place at midnight on April 24.
 
 Manoj alias Samiyar was arrested and brought to   station. A police source said Manoj will be produced in the court on Tuesday morning and lodged at Coimbatore Central Prison.
 
 “Around 4pm, Manoj was taken to Kodanad to record the sequence of events,“ said a source. “He was asked to enact and recall the series of events that happened on April 24 midnight. Around 8.15pm, he was brought back to Kotagiri police station,“ the source said.
 
 On April 24, around 1.30am, a gang entered the Kodanad estate and murdered Om Bahadur and injured Krishna Bahadur, the guards at gate 10 of the estate. The gang is said to have looted the estate. However, police are yet to establish the details of loot.
 
 Following this, police named Jayalalithaa's former car driver S Kanagaraj and K V Sayan as the accused in the case. On April 28, Kanagaraj died in an acciden near Salem, while Sayan sustained injuries in a separate accident in Kerala the same day .
 
 The Tamil Nadu police detained four men who were suspects in the case. On April 30, two men from Malappuram were arrested.
 
 Highly placed sources say that Kanagaraj had plotted the murder, and Sayan had introduced Manoj to Kanagaraj. Manoj is said to have executed the murder.
 
 Meanwhile, Santosh Samy who was arrested by the Tamil Nadu police in the Kodanad murder case was reported missing by his mother on April 29. She registered a complaint with the Kerala police alleging that her son was abducted by a gang of 10 unknown people.
 
 On Monday , a sub-inspector and a constable of the Kerala police visited Kotagiri police station, and were informed about Santosh's involvement in the murder.
 
