JAIPUR: The ruling BJP moved a breach of privilege motion against deputy leader of opposition   on Thursday, accusing him of violating the deputy speaker’s order by making public the allegations levelled against minister   in the   on March 28.

 After an intense debate on the matter, deputy speaker Rao Rajendra Singh reserved the decision on the motion moved by parliamentary affairs minister Rajendra Rathore. The treasury benches demanded termination of the Congress legislator’s membership from the house, while Congress whip Govind Singh Dotasra made a robust defence for Meena.
 
 Dotasra, in fact, counter accused Rathore of violating the same order by repeating before media the allegations made against Meena in the house on March 28. The Congress whip demanded that Meena be also allowed to move breach of privilege motion against Rathore. Deputy speaker Singh, though, explained that speaker Kailash Meghwal reserved his decision on Meena’s motion as the latter failed to present it within the prescribed time.
 
 Finally, senior BJP member   and home minister Gulab Chand Kataria intervened and cooled the frayed tempers by suggesting that the motion against Meena be referred to the House’s privilege committee, which should first examine and analyse the proofs tabled by Rathore and Dotasra in support and against the motion, respectively.
 
 Earlier in the day, the house had to be adjourned twice for nearly 1.15 hours following chaos over the matter during the zero hour. Dotasra insisted that the speaker should give his ruling on the deputy speaker’s decision to “freeze” the record of debate between Meena and Maheshwari on the night of March 28. Speaker Kailash Meghwal, who was presiding then, adjourned the house after Congress legislators stepped in the house well.
 
 The ruling party leaders Rathore, Maheshwari, Arun Chaturvedi and Surendra Goyal as well as the opposition members including leader of opposition Rameshwar Dudi, Meena, Dotasra, Kirori Lal Meena and Hanuman Beniwal met speaker Meghwal in his chamber while the house was adjourned.
 
 When the house assembled after the second adjournment, Rathore moved the motion and accused Meena of repeating the allegations “verbatim” before media on March 28 even though the deputy speaker ordered to “freeze” the record until it was proved that the Congress leader served notice, as per assembly rules, to the minister concerned (Maheshwari) before making allegations in the house. Rathore tabled a CD of Meena’s statements to media.
 
 Dotasra, on the other hand, tabled sealed receipt of the notice submitted to the speaker’s office, with a copy marked to Maheshwari, on March 27. Defending Meena, Dotasra denied that the Congress legislator repeated the allegations ‘verbatim’ before media. “He (Meena) did not have copy of the house record, so how could have he repeated the allegations verbatim,” Dotasra reasoned.
 
 The Congress whip referred to assembly rule-273 and claimed that serving a notice was not required if the member against whom the allegations were being made was present in house and was willing to reply. “Since the minister was present and also replied to the allegations, the condition of serving notice does not arise,” Dotasra said.
 
 Deputy speaker Singh, however, clarified that rule-273 was not the subject matter of the privilege motion moved by Rathore. “The motion is about whether the member (Meena) repeated the allegations verbatim before media and, thus, violated the chair’s order to ‘freeze’ the records,” Singh said.
 
