NAVI MUMBAI: In order to gather momentum in the run up to the  , the   ( ) has decided to rope in 35,000 students from Class VII to XII along with 4,000 teachers from both civic and private schools and colleges in a football carnival and   that will be held on October 5. Being the host city, the civic body is leaving no stone unturned to make this event a success. 

 The NMMC aims to break its own national record of 27,000 students participating in a walkathon for their smart city initiative in 2015, which entered the Limca Book of Records. Over 150 schools and colleges will take part in the walkathon that will begin from Ganpatrao Tandel ground. Participants will be split into two groups. They will gather at the NMMC headquarters and Agri Koli maidan, simultaneously.
 
 The event will highlight the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan campaign and promote the sport.
 
  “I have sent letters to all private schools, colleges and institutions falling under the NMMC jurisdiction. Most of them will be sending their students for the mega event. We had hosted a similar event in November 2015 as well. We had received a good response then and made our way into the Limca Book of Records. This time, we are hoping to surpass the previous record with more students taking part in the event,” said NMMC commissioner Ramaswami N.
 
 Under the Swachha Navi Mumbai initiative, the NMMC plans to create a record of sorts by hosting a walkathon and football carnival in which students will walk and play football along the entire 6-km stretch. “The event will begin from 7am onwards. Through this, we will also create awareness of a clean and green city,” said deputy municipal commissioner Amrish Patnigere.
 
 Two routes have been earmarked for the event —Tandel ground in Nerul to NMMC HQ at Belapur and Tandel ground to Agri-Koli ground where participants will be split into two categories of 17,500 each. “We will be proud to be part of the show,” said Heena Samani, principal of Tilak Junior College, Seawoods.
 
 “Citizens and civic staff will also be participating in the walkathon. We will make this event a grand one,” said Ramaswami. 
 
 
