Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis’s glamorous banker wife Amruta had earlier walked the ramp for the girl child. And now she is ready to sashay down the ramp again on March 5 in Mumbai to promote yet another cause that is close to her heart....

 
 
 Giving the details of this endeavour, Amruta says, “Recently I was introduced by the chief of   state women’s council to the girls who have faced brutal acid attacks. And I was amazed to see their willpower and determination. I feel it is not right to call them victims or survivors; they are the victors. They are hurt —physically, mentally and psychologically — but they are not broken. There are two boys too among these victors. It is time to give them their rightful place under the sun. So, some of the top bureaucrats, celebs and I will walk the ramp with these victors on March 5 in Mumbai.”
 
 
 
 Ask her if merely walking the ramp is enough to get them the equal opportunities that they need and Amruta says, “This is the first step to instill confidence in them. Each victor has gone through several surgeries and still most of the people either shun them or just avoid looking at them. Giving them a stage is a beginning. There will be many Bollywood stars who will walk with them to give them that extra bit of confidence.”
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Amruta gets emotional as she shares, “The youngest victor is seven-year-old, the same age as my daughter — Divija. That child was barely two when acid was thrown on her. But you have to see how bravely she is fighting it out. My daughter will walk the ramp with her. We have invited the CM and Pankaja Munde as the guests of honour on this occasion.”
 
 
 
 The CM’s wife shares, “Along with state women’s council’s chief  , people like Mickey Mehta, Pallavi Shrivastava, Kavin Shah and Sampath Iyer are also working with many victors to ensure that they get to start a small enterprise like a bakery, collectively. We have also invited several corporates to provide appropriate employment to these bravehearts.”
 
