He was eight when he woke up one morning and realised that he “just couldn’t see.” Before   could know what’s happening, he was declared ‘partially blind’ and the doctors told him he couldn’t be treated. And what did he do?
 
 “I just moved on with my life. I was too young at that time to even think of it as a tragedy. I just behaved like any normal kid, played games, climbed trees and had fun, you know,” says the 34-year-old stand-up comic, who learnt that laughter is one of the greatest gifts in his life — it helped him deal with a condition called Juvenile Macular Degeneration (caused by deterioration or breakdown of the eye’s macula, the central part of the retina resulting in loss of central vision). 
 
 The biggest disability is the inability to laugh at life 
 
 The disease took away his central vision but his peripheral vision is alright. To put it simply, he cannot see straight, but can see from the sides. Perhaps that explains where he get’s his sense of humour from. And today, by making people laugh Sundeep Rao’s message is loud and clear — hope springs eternal. “The biggest disability in this world is the inability to laugh at the problems, challenges and inadequacies in life,” Sundeep said, after tickling the funny bones of Hyderabadis at a show recently.
 
 Make yourself laugh, the world will laugh with you...
 Turns out, Sundeep is a Hyderabadi — he was born here and has some “faint but happy childhood memories” of the city. “I was a fun-loving kid and used to get along with everyone I came across,” says Sundeep, adding, “But, we soon moved to Bangalore.” 
 It was in 2010 that Sundeep first dabbled with stand-up comedy. A political science and sociology graduate, he was working with an IT company, when he decided to quit his job and become a full time stand-up comedian. Although he’s happy to crack jokes about his partial blindness today, it was only a few years ago that he started talking about his disability. 
 
 The fear of getting type-cast as a blind comic made Sundeep avoid talking about his condition, but he soon got tired of being someone else on stage and decided to just be himself. Today, the 34-year-old likes to be addressed as ‘India’s funniest partially blind comedian’. 
 
 The challenge is to make people laugh without being offensive
 His jokes revolve around his life; its frustrations, anger, mistakes, regrets, sadness... et al. “Basically, I present all the things I don’t share with anyone else, on stage with a little humour,” says the comedian, talking about the source of his inspiration. “The trick is to be honest and entertain yourself on the stage. If you are making yourself laugh, rest assured that the audience too will. I take all that the society has to throw at me and make it sound funny on stage. And thankfully, it amuses the audience,” Sundeep says.
 
 For him the biggest challenge is to keep the audience in good spirits and try not to crack any offensive jokes. “I keep on improvising to give my shows fresh look. Each show should be a new experience for me as well the audience. For instance, my recent act on Donald Trump and the homecoming of NRIs is a fresh concept,” he says, talking about his show which has gone viral on social media and is garnering a lot of views. Before signing off, Sundeep has a simple advice for wannabe stand-up comics: “Don’t expect everything to be rosy. There are no short-cuts in life. You should take life as it is. And, don’t copy!”
 
