NEW DELHI:  's big gains in the Maharashtra urban civic polls, particularly its success in checkmating   in Mumbai, came as a boost to the saffron party which quickly proclaimed that the verdict would be replicated in wins in UP and other states going to polls.

 With the gamble of going alone in Mumbai after breaking with the Sena delivering a three-fold jump in seats, BJP said the results were further proof of a widespread endorsement of demonetisation after a major improvement in the Odisha zilla parishad elections with HRD minister Prakash Javadekar saying Congress had lost its pro-poor plank to BJP.
 
 “The pro-poor plank used to be with Congress but is now with us. It's a big win. The results have showed that all sections of society are voting for BJP . The results of UP , Manipur, Goa and   polls will be on similar lines.The result in Punjab will also be surprising,“ he claimed.
 
 The civic polls results also mark the emergence of Maharashtra CM Devendra Fadnavis as a leader in his own right and he is the latest entrant to a list of BJP CMs who have made a name for themselves like Shivraj Chouhan,   and Vasundhara Raje.While others have been reelected and Fadnavis is in his first term, he has justified BJP's decision to ignore traditional caste dynamics while choosing him.
 
 PM   and BJP chief Amit Shah had leaned on “merit“ rather than caste, calculating that performance would pay in the long run. Shah has made the point that the “right“ caste is not enough if governance is slack. The Maharashtra results show that BJP has been able to drive home the point that Sena needs to treat it as an equal and not subordinate.
 
 Apart from its wins, BJP drew satisfaction from the sharp decline in Congress's fortunes, as the party ended behind NCP in some municipalities. “We are moving towards Congress-mukt Bharat (Congress-free India),“ Javadekar claimed, adding that the opposition party's campaign against demonetisation had been a complete non-starter.
 
 “PM Narendra Modi and Maharashtra CM Devendra Fadnavis, ably supported by Mumbai president Ashish Shelar, have demonstrated that BJP is the true representative of good governance, transparency and develop ment,“ Javadekar said as party circles pointed out that the decision to reject Sena's offer of 60 seats had been proved right. Asked about Sena, Javadekar said the results were a lesson to those who said BJP's strength was not enough for winning even 40 seats. “It's a defeat for the critics of demonetisation and evidence of people's endorsement for the government's policies,“ he said.BJP has emerged as the largest outfit in eight out of 10 municipal bodies and has trebled its tally in Mumbai, where it fell a little short of the Sena.
 
