AJMER: City police has started tightening its noose on   in Ajmer and after an in-depth investigation arrested a member of the group,  , who prepared a   of a person and grabbed the land. Police produced the accused in the court on Monday from where he was sent to jail. Police are searching for other members of the group. The matter was investigated on the directions given by CO south and IPS Monika Sen.

 According to police, 85 years old Ashok Kumar Vishwas of Nai Basti Ramganj sold his house to Inderjeet Singh, resident of New Delhi in 2014. Singh registered the property in his name availing the loan from a private bank. He also agreed that Vishwas can stay in the house during his last days. The care-taker of Vishwas, Raj Kumar Nayak who witnessed this transaction conspired before the death of Vishwas with accused Kailash Gujjar, Sukhdev Gujjar and others and prepared a fake will in his name. Later he sold the property in the name of Kailash Gujjar.
 
 When Inderjeet Singh came to now that Vishwas was no more he came to Ajmer to claim his property but found that other persons had encroached his property. “Inderjeet was so depressed that after all his efforts went in vain, he registered an FIR in Ramganj police station,” said Krishan Avtar Khatri, advocate of the victim.
 
 He added that Singh later executed power of attorney to his friend Rajat Sharma. He alleged that Ramganj police was not cooperating with the victim and therefore Rajat went to the court to register a case in this matter. “When the matter went to IPS Monika Sen, she personally started monitoring the matter and found that the two witnesses in the fake will had not signed as witnesses,” added Khatri.
 
 The accused filed for anticipatory bail in the district and session court which was turned down. “They tried every door to put pressure on police but later senior officials gave a nod to arrest them,” said a police officer. Raj Kumar Nayak was arrested for preparing fake will and police is now looking for other accused. “During investigation it was found that it is a common phenomenon that land mafia choose such properties which are abandoned and prepare fake documents and grab them,” added a source.
 
 
