NEW DELHI: Union information and broadcasting minister   and minister of state for PMO,  , have alleged that   is blatantly misrepresenting facts with regard to draft RTI rules as these had been framed when the party itself had been in office. 

  Singh said, "In its haste to criticise the current government, Congress has missed out the depth of the subject." He clarified that be it deposition of certain fee or putting limitations of word length of 500 words in applications with some exceptions all were introduced by the   government and the current government has not brought in anything new. 
 
 "It is disgusting that the Congress party which is bent upon taking credit for passing the RTI Act, 2005 is unabashedly claiming Right to Disinformation by propagating blatant lies against the government," alleged Naidu reacting to Congress spokesperson  's accusations that the government has initiated the process to tweak RTI norms.
 
  Naidu said in 2007, Central Information Commission came out with regulations which were challenged and quashed by the Delhi high court. The RTI Rules notified by the UPA government in July, 2012 are now in force. "On the advice of attorney general, the government has now proposed a set of new comprehensive rules and invited public comments and suggestions on the same". 
 
  Singh said that contrary to the disinformation campaign resorted to by the Congress, the RTI Rules, 2017 proposed by the government further empowers and enables the applicants to take full benefit of the law. In section 8 and sub-section (vii) of the new rules, condonation of delay in submission of appeal in case of valid reasons is provided for. 
 
  Also, section 14 of the new rules states that no complaint shall be returned only on the ground that it has not been made in the specified format if it is accompanied by specified documents. He said the key provisions of the RTI Rules, 2012 have been identically incorporated verbatim. No change has been made in the RTI fee structure. 
 
  There is no change in the postal charges for sending the information. The proposed rules do not limit the filing of either complaint or appeal "online" only. Both rule 8 and rule 13 dealing with filing of appeals and complaints especially provide for filing offline as well as online. 
 
  Similarly, the provision for abatement of appeals or complaints on the death of the applicant or complainant, which was earlier included in the CIC (Management) Regulations 2007, has also been included. 
 
 
