THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Soon, the wait for obtaining driving licence after clearing the   will be reduced to minutes. 

 Introducing a more responsive system and issuing spot driving licence are among the latest facilities that motor vehicles department ( ) plans to introduce at its computerized centres.
 
 The MVD has decided to roll out a scheme for introducing the facility for obtaining driving licence and certificate of fitness (CF) on the spot from the first week of April. 
 
 At first, the facilities will be introduced at the automated driving test and vehicle test centres in Muttathara and Parassala.
 
 Currently, the results of the tests are sent to respective RTO offices from where the driving licence and certificate of fitness are printed, laminated and sent to the applicants concerned through registered post.
 
 For the new system of issuing spot driving licence and certificate of fitness for vehicles, the software of the automated system has to be linked with the software of MVD to obtain the details for creating a driving licence. 
 
 Sources said this has been done ahead of the launch.
 
 After an applicant successfully completes the test, the data from the computerized driving test track software will be used to create the licence. And an MVD official present at site can certify the licence, which will be given to the applicant. In a similar process, CF will be issued to vehicles after completing the test.
 
 According to regional transport officer B Muraleekrishnan, the procedure for introducing the system is in the final stages.
 
 “Necessary requirements, which include printer and lamination machine, are also arranged at the centre. The technical work of linking the software will be completed soon,” said B Muraleekrishnan.
 
 “The new facility was proposed by the transport commissioner. It will reduce the delay in obtaining the licence and also the people will have direct contact with the MVD officials, bringing more transparency to the process. The system will be introduced in other centres too,” added Muraleekrishnan.
 
 Sources from MVD said that if they find the trial run of the new system at Muttathara and Parassala successful, the facility will be extended to automated centres in Kozhikode and  .
 
 Transport Commissioner   said the MVD has initiated steps for the project and the project was waiting for final approval of the government.
 
 
