Ludhiana: Disappointed with the response to the previous bid, civic officials have again floated tenders for the   project on Thursday. The tenders have been floated to hire an agency for the sterilization of stray dogs, the number being around 25,000. However due to the festive season, the tenders will be opened on October 25. 

 The earlier bid had attracted only one bidder because of which officials had sought permission from the local bodies department to give the project to him because of the urgency of the matter. But when they did not receive the reply from the department they decided to float the tenders again. The officials have kept a pre-bid meeting on October 10 while the companies can submit their bid by October 23.
 
 Meanwhile the existing company is claiming to have sterilized more than 28,000 stray dogs. Now the officials are planning to launch sterilization in the inner areas of the city as they have already covered the main roads of the city. The officials after formation of the new house will also consult the councillors and start sterilization ward wise.
 
 Senior veterinary officer of MC Dr Y P Singh informed since there was a single bidder last time they have floated the tenders again and it will take at least 20 days to complete the tendering procedure. He said that there was a need of intensive and continuous sterilization of dogs and only then the problem will be eradicated completely. 
 
 Earlier the MCL had hired a Hyderabad-based firm for this project in 2015 and it was kicked off on February 25, 2015. The company was given the task to sterilize 25,000 stray dogs.
 
 Officials suffering from Sidhu Phobia
 
 The MC officials are suffering from local bodies minister Navjot Singh Sidhu’ phobia after the sudden suspension of two superintending engineers of the building and road department for allotting the civil works to single bidders with no official taking the risk. In this case the officials had sought permission from the local bodies department but without waiting further for the reply they decided to float the tenders again. 
 
 
