Thane: Anxiety and stress are part of every home that has a class XII student. It’s a big day the   students, as their final   exams begin today. In order to make the exams less stressful, the school authorities have asked Doctors and counsellors to be present at the school premises well in advance. 

 Schools have ensured that there is enough shade within the school premises to accomodate all the students who come to take their exams and they don’t have to wait in the hot sun. 
 
 Schools have also organised counsellors to talk to students in case they find it difficult to deal with the stress. 
 
 Simmi Juneja, principal of DAV Public School, which is one of the many HSC   centres in   said, “Students are already going through a lot of stress prior to their exam, so our main aim is to make it a smooth process. If any child forgets his or her hall ticket we will immediately download and print it out from our computer lab and not ask the student to run up and down for the same. That’s one way we can reduce a student’s stress from our end.”
 
 “We have double checked the seating arrangements and written them on the black boards. As there are some students who are physically-challenged and may not be able to go to their designated classrooms on higher floors we have kept a lift for them. We also have a set of teachers to guide them and take them around,” added Father Michael Pinto, principal St. John the Baptist School and Junior College.
 
 “Our school counsellors will also be available to all students throughout the exam days so that they can talk and let go of their anxieties and stress before and write their exams with a calm mind,” Pinto added.
 
 While some schools have designated a few teachers and counsellors to make the atmosphere less stressful and more cheerful, others have appointed a few medicos to ensure that the children don’t give in to anxiety or the summer heat.
 
 “We have not only made provisions of adequate drinking water and a shade for students, but also brought in a doctor and nurse to deal with any medical conditions if need be,” said Juneja.
 
