Launched in September 2012, Times Celebex is a monthly rating index based on several measurable parameters, including the stars’ Box-Office performance, their ability to stay in the news across print, TV and online, their brand endorsements, and their popularity among fans on the Internet and social media. These are taken cumulatively to assign the actors a final rank called the ‘T Score’. Times Celebex is a scientific and robust ranking system based on data collected from 60+ publications and 250+ TV channels, making it the first ever ranking system for Bollywood. We have put together the stars’ ranking for the month of August 2017.

  is on the top spot for his performance in the social drama, 'Toilet: Ek Prem Katha', which was appreciated by the critics and the audience.   grabs the top spot for the buzz around her action-thriller, 'A Gentleman — Sundar, Susheel, Risky'. Her looks and pole-dance were appreciated.
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 Sidharth Malhotra leaps from 21st rank to the 3rd rank 
 Ajay Devgn leaps from the 10th rank to the 4th rank 
 Rajkummar Rao leaps from the 41st rank to the 12th rank 
 Irrfan leaps from the 49th rank to the 24th rank 
 Farhan Akhtar leaps from the 27th rank to the 14th rank
  leaps from the 49th rank to the 28th rank 
 
 
 Bhumi Pednekar leaps from the 33rd rank to the 3rd rank 
  leaps from the 16th rank to the 5th rank
  leaps from the 35th rank to 13th rank 
 Neha dhupia leaps from the 34th rank to the 19th rank
 Soha Ali Khan leaps from the 32nd rank to the 22nd rank
 Pooja Hegde leaps from the 64th rank to the 50th rank 
 
 
 Shah Rukh Khan: 'Jab Harry Met Sejal' opened to mixed reviews. 
 Sidharth Malhotra: The promos and songs of 'A Gentleman — Sundar, Susheel, Risky', created a lot of buzz on social media. 
 Ajay Devgn: The promos and songs of 'Baadshaho' were lapped up. 
 Salman khan: He was in the news for his next film, 'Tiger Zinda Hai', and returning money to 'Tubelight’s' distributors.
 Amitabh Bachchan: There was buzz around his show, 'Kaun Banega Crorepati’s' new edition. 
 Varun Dhawan: The trailer of 'Judwaa 2' was launched in the presence of 50 sets of twins. 
 Hrithik Roshan: He was in the news for the forthcoming film, 'Super 30' which he is now expected to headline. 
 Ranveer Singh: He made news for his endorsements and his romance with Deepika Padukone. 
 Dhanush: He was in the news for his forthcoming films down South. 
 
 
 Anushka Sharma: Her performance in 'Jab Harry Met Sejal' was talked about. 
 Bhumi Pednekar: Her performance in 'Toilet: Ek Prem Katha' was appreciated. 
 Alia Bhatt: She was in the news for flagging off 'Raazi'.
 Kriti Sanon: Her performance as Bitti in 'Bareilly Ki Barfi' was widely given the thumbs-up.
 Deepika Padukone: She was in the news for her love life and news around her forthcoming films. 
 Priyanka Chopra: The announcements around her upcoming Hollywood films made news. 
 Shraddha Kapoor: The promos of 'Haseena Parkar' and her looks were talked about.
 Ileana D'Cruz: The promos of 'Baadshaho' kept her on top of the mind. 
 Sonam Kapoor: Her prep for her home production, 'Veere Di Wedding', was in the news. 
 
 
 
 
 
