LUCKNOW: The   is set to re-introduce co-education at the under graduate level from the new academic session. This will open opportunity for girl candidates for admission to its 1,400 seats in regular BA, BSc and BCom courses.

 “After 28 years, the college will open its gates to girl students, while ensuring a safe and secure environment for them. A strong proctorial board will be set up by the college to ensure discipline on campus,” said principal Mukesh Pati.
 
 He said the college so far offered co-education only at post-graduation level in MA (English) and MSc (Chemistry) in which 40% girls are enrolled.
 
 For UG classes, the college will conduct entrance examination on June 12 for admission to 460 seats in BA, 440 seats in BCom, 240 in BSc(Bio) and 260 in BSc (Maths) for its co-ed batch.
 
 “It is the decision of LCC management to offer co-education from the new academic session and   doesn't have any problem if the college wants to switch from boys only to co-ed,” said Lucknow University vice-chancellor S P Singh.
 
 Ever since the inception of LCC in 1862, for 123 years till 1984, it imparted education only to boys. “In 1984, the college introduced co-education at under graduate level but after five years went back to being a boys’ college because of cases of indiscipline,” said college professor Maulindu, adding that the college scrapped co-education at UG in 1989 but introduced it in   in 1996 in only the MPed course and later in 1997 in MA (English) and MSc Chemistry courses.
 
 “Bringing back co-education will help develop healthy environment and also number of enrollments in the college will increase,” said retired chief proctor J K Singh. He added that the college had contributed in a big way to the fields of medicine, politics and defence with its illustrious alumni like the first Muslim President of India and the third President Dr Zakir Husain, Chief Minister of Punjab Surjeet Singh Barnala and several others.
 
 “Among reputed colleges, only a few offer co-education, including   and KKC and now with Christian College offering turning it too, candidates will have one more option for graduation studies,” said Sneha Rastogi, class XII student of St Joseph’s Cathedral. 
 
 
