NAGPUR: If Nagpur is able to assert itself, it may get a national research centre of excellence in geology, mining and exploration. Nagpur is in the running with Hyderabad for the proposed centre. The names of the two cities have been put forth under the recently cleared National Mineral Exploration Policy 2016 by the union cabinet.

 “Compared to Hyderabad, Nagpur has many more institutions associated with mineral exploration mining and mineral utilization,” said  , former director general of GSI here on Thursday. These include Indian Bureau of Mines, Geological Survey of India, Mineral Exploration Corporation Limited, Atomic Mineral Directorate for Exploration and Research, Directorate General of Mining, Jawaharlal Nehru Aluminium Development and Design Centre and a very old and established geology department at the university. “Hence I see a very high chance for Nagpur for the centre. It is necessary for resourcing of future generations under the  ,” Wadhawan said.
 
 He was in city for delivering a key note address in the two day national symposium on ‘Challenges and Strategies in Mineral Exploration and Mining’ organized by the   of the department of geology of  .
 
 Wadhawan said that mining was a risky venture full of uncertainties. “But if the sector has to compete with that in the developed world, it has to work on the geological, economic and environmental guidelines of United Nations Framework Classification to make a commercially viable venture,” he said.
 
 India has already incentivized foreign direct investment (FDI) under which it will be giving free of cost data on three geosciences fronts: the geological mapping on 1:50,000 scale, geochemical mapping (sediment samples) and geophysical mapping to all stakeholders involved from exploration to mining. The country has about 5.71 lakh sq km obvious geological potential (OGP) area. “Under the first phase geological mapping will be completed by 2018 and geophysical mapping by 2010,” said Wadhawan.
 
 The former DG went on to stress that for allowing FDI in the sector Indian experts need to monitor the foreign companies engaged in the process. This will require support of Indian experts and this can be happen only when we have trained professionals and researchers generated from centres of excellence being envisaged at Nagpur. It will also require support from the academia to avoid the FDI in dictating terms their terms to India. “We can also have universities running MBA course for geology professionals,” said Wadhawan. 
 
 Wadhawan said that India also need to work in international collaborative projects as it has already opened up the sector for FDI. “In fact I feel there should be a research cell directly under PMO or Niti Ayog to promote international trade in the right manner,” he said.
 
