KOLKATA: The   has registered three cases of kepmari this month - two of which took place back-to-back at  . The accused posed as either bank employees or customers and made off with thousands. Both incidents took place in public sector banks. 

 In the first incident,   resident Ram Chandra Das lodged a complaint alleging he was duped after withdrawing Rs 50,000 from United Bank of India's Entally branch around 12:30pm on March 22. 
 
 "The accused told the complainant he was an employee of the bank. He informed Das that there were fake notes in the amount withdrawn and misappropriated Rs 12,000, while recounting and checking the currency notes. An investigation is in progress," the FIR stated.
 
 At another public sector bank, in Bhowanipore, the cashier himself was tricked after the accused posed as a customer and claimed the currency notes he was being handed over were fake. When the cashier started to check the notes individually, the accused picked up a bundle of cash and fled.
 
 The kepmars, though, did not stick to robbing people inside banks. Topsia resident Radheshyam Mahato (30) alleged that a group of unknown persons followed him from the bank around 1.45pm on March 20. Mahato was carrying Rs 35,000 in cash, which fell on the road near the Sealdah-bound Up-line track opposite Ananda Palit Road. The accused allegedly rushed in, restrained and pushed Mahato. They then took the cash and fled. 
 
 "We have gone through the CCTV footage available with us and have found that the accused are new faces in the city. We believe they are an interstate gang that periodically comes to Kolkata from north India," said a senior detective department official. 
 
 Apart from city-based kepmars, the cops are also focussing on those from the districts and other states who flock to Kolkata. "Snatchers and lifters from Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar make Kolkata their hunting ground every year. 
 
 They mostly put up in rented houses in the suburbs to avoid our scrutiny," said an officer of the detective department. 
 
