VADODARA: Over a-year-and-half after a kidney selling racket was busted in Anand, the key accused was arrested by Dehradun police. Javed Khan was nabbed by a joint team of Haridwar and Dehradun police when he was travelling in a vehicle with some donors. The   police that had been looking for Khan will now begin process to get his transit remand and bring him to Anand for questioning. 

 “He is a tout who used to identify and bring in people willing to sell their kidneys and also those in dire need of the kidney. We had been looking for Khan after his named cropped up in racket. We will now approach the court in Dehradun and seek transit remand of Khan. It may take a couple of weeks to bring him to Anand,” said B D Jadeja, deputy superintendent of police, Anand. The police said that Khan, who used to stay in Mumbai, may be able to reveal names of more persons who may have sold off their kidneys.
 
 “Khan had been running a similar racket in Uttarakhand and other states. His arrest will help us learn more about the racket,” Jadeja added. The police have till date arrested three persons including Mukul Chaudhary, Sher Ali Pathan and   in the racket that had surfaced after the cops came across the case Amir Malek who was in dire need of Rs 2,000. 
 
 Promising him big money, one of the accused, Rafiq took Aamir to Anand from where he was shifted to a guest house and later at a hospital in Delhi where he was operated upon by some unidentified doctors. Investigations by the special investigations team (SIT) formed to unearth more about the racket revealed that 13 persons from Anand are victims of the kidney selling racket.
 
 The police had also arrested Dr Amit Ravat, who used to conduct surgeries on the victims in Anand, from Tees Hazari court in New Delhi last year. Ravat is also accused in another kidney selling rackets and was arrested by the   earlier. However, Ravat fled from the Anand police’s custody when they were travelling in Swarna Jayanti Express August last year. Ravat is also wanted in the kidney selling racket at Dehradun. 
 
 The Dehradun police has said that the kidneys taken from donors were sent to different places across the country as well as foreign countries. 
 
