'La La Land' swept away the Golden Globe Awards 2017, which was held in Beverly Hills on January 8 this year. Host   opened the show with a spoof on the most-nominated film of the night, 'La La Land'.

 
 
 The Damien Chazelle-directed film won the top honours and created Golden Globe history with seven wins. 'La La Land' won the Best Motion Picture (Comedy or Musical). The film's leading actor   won the award for Best Actor in a Motion Picture (Comedy or Musical) for his act as a jazz pianist. The good-looking actor dedicated the award to his ladylove Eva Mendes. As expected, Emma Stone walked away with the Best Actress in a Motion Picture (Comedy or Musical) for her portrayal of an aspiring actress in 'La La Land'. The actress looked lovely in a soft-hued Valentino gown.   too bagged the Best Director and Best Screenplay Award for the love story. The film also won in the Original Score Department with the award going to Justin Hurwitz. The film's song 'City Of Stars' won the award for Original Song. 
 
 
 
  'Moonlight' won in the category of Best Motion Picture (Drama).
 
 Casey Affleck won the Best Actor in a Motion Picture (Drama) for 'Manchester By The Sea'. Isabelle Huppert won the award for the Best Actress in a Motion Picture (Drama) for her performance in 'Elle'.
 
 
 
 Viola Davis, who looked stunning in a canary yellow gown, walked away with the Best Supporting Actress for her act in 'Fences'. Aaron Taylor Johnson won the Best Supporting Actor for 'Nocturnal Animals'.
 
 'Zootopia' was announced as the Best Animated Film while the French film 'Elle' won the Best Foreign Language Film Award.
 
 
 
 Meryl Streep, who is easily one of the most iconic actresses Hollywood has ever seen, was honoured with the prestigious Cecil B. Demille Award. The legendary actress delivered a powerful speech with political undertones as she accepted the award.
 
 
 
 India's hottest star   made her presence felt at the award ceremony. The actress looked stunning in a golden sequined   gown. Priyanka presented the award for Best Actor in a TV series (Drama) along with Jeffrey Dean Morgan.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
