History textbooks in Gujarat describe in detail the grandeur of the   dynasty and the Sultanate era. But little has been written about the state’s resplendent Buddhist heritage other than Ashoka’s rock edicts at Junagadh. But the seven-day international Buddhist conference that kicks off at   on Sunday will focus on the rich Buddhist heritage of Gujarat. The aim of the conference is to highlight the state’s Buddha heritage sites for the world.

 
 
 Not many people know that from the first century AD to the eighth century AD, this famous mantra could be heard being chanted by monks in caves in Kutch and Saurashtra. Scattered across the state, especially along the coastal Saurashtra and Kutch, there are enough remnants showing how Buddhism had come to Gujarat and was popular in 47 AD and flourished till 788 AD.
 
 But it is only in the 21st century that plans are being chalked out to showcase these marvels of history and architecture to the world. Chinese traveller Hiuen Tsang, who first stepped into Bharuch, had recorded over 200 monasteries and over 10,000 monks living there. The monasteries were located in Saurashtra, Vallabhi (today’s Vallabhipur), and   (today’s Vadnagar).
 
 In fact, Vallabhi was a famed centre of Buddhist studies which another Chinese traveller, I-tsing, said was on par with Nalanda. "Before 700 AD, most people in Gujarat practised Buddhism. But this faded with time," said  , head of Sanghkaya Foundation which is organizing the international conference in Gandhinagar.
 
 "We want to show the world these sites and their importance," said Bhante Gautam.
 
 
 
 Nestled amid hills, two km from Shyamlaji in Sabarkantha district, Dev ni Mori has thrown up the biggest Buddhist establishment dating back to the 2nd and 7th century.
 
 Archeologists found a 1,700-year old casket containing the bodily relics of the Buddha. The settlement was excavated in 1953. The Maha Stupa or Sharira Stupa here was a gigantic structure, 11m from the ground. Art historian Kantilal Sompura says that the first tier of the stupa was a flat platform with a pradakshina path. Another platform had images of the Buddha seated in Dhyanmudra. As many as 17 terracotta images of the Buddha were also found here. There was also a Mahavihara (hall), a single-storey structure with a courtyard 36m x 36m in size. On all sides of the courtyard, there were eight rooms of 3 sq m size.
 
 
 
 
 Rock-cut caves of the Buddhist era have been excavated in most parts of coastal Saurashtra with Uparkot in Junagadh being hailed as one of the most resplendent of all. Art historian Percy Brown says that so many caves in and around Junagadh alone, signify that there was a bustling Buddhist settlement here. The three-layered Uparkot caves are famous for their art with the lower floor having a corridor and six ornate pillars.The caves at Sana, inside the Gir forest area near Amreli, and Talaja near Bhavnagar, are regarded as the oldest in India. In fact, there are nearly 30 caves in Talaja taluka near Shetrunji river and have carvings of Bodhisattva. Buddhist imprints in the form of caves are also located in the remote village of Siyot near Lakhpat village of Kutch. Excavation in 1988-89 revealed clay seals engraved with images of the Buddha in different mudras and seals with Brahmi and Devnagri inscriptions.
 
 
 
 
 Hiuen Tsang visited Vadnagar around 641 AD and called it Anandapura. He has recorded the presence of 1,000 Sammatiya monks living in 10 monasteries. In 2008-09, director, state archeology department, YS Rawat, and his team excavated a monastery that measured 14.04m x 14.04m believed to have been built around 2nd or 3rd century AD.It is believed that the town hosted a big settlement dating back to 3rd century BC.
 
 
 
 
 The most enchanting and well known Buddhist era remnants are the rock edicts of Emperor Ashoka. Filled with remorse after the Kalinga war, Asoka's rock edicts, including those at Junagadh, proclaimed his conversion to non-violence and pacifism. The first of the four rock edicts dating back to 257-256 BC reads: “The Beloved of the Gods, Piyadasi the king, has had this inscription on Dhamma engraved.Here no living thing will be killed, sacrificed, nor is the holding of a festival permitted.“
 
 
 
 
 There are five groups of caves built using limestone rock. The first group has seven caves of different dimensions which monks used as viharas to stay. However, more significant is the second group of three caves that have a Chaitya Hall in the centre. These caves are indicative of the Mahayana order, one of the main existing branches of Buddhism. According to art historian Sompura, these caves were built around third century AD.
 
