PANAJI:   national president   promised on Sunday to make   a model state within the next five years despite the state having limited resources. He also said the   government in the state would emulate Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government at the Centre by providing an all-inclusive model of development.

 “As the BJP president, I want to assure Goans that with the mandate the people have given us, and taking our alliance partners along with us, the work of making Goa a model state within five years will be completed by Manohar Parrikar’s BJP government,” Shah said at a public function of the party where he and Parrikar were feted for working to form the Goa government after the 2017 polls.
 
 “I am sure with Modi at the Cente and Parrikar in the state, Goa will move ahead at great speed,” Shah said.
 
 He said during its last term, BJP in Goa gave a government that was stable, corruption-free and one that carried out development and this resulted in the party gathering the highest vote share in the 2017 elections. 
 
 “I can understand the problem of Digvijaya Singh, who is going around saying that something unconstitutional has been done in Goa. I want to ask him, when BJP leaders under Nitin Gadkari had gone to the governor to stake claim to form the government, had your party even elected its leader? As per the Constitution, when there is a fractured mandate, one has to gather signatures of support from MLAs and accordingly, the BJP staked claim to form the government,” he said.
 
 Shah promised the people of Goa a stable government yet again, with the parties that have joined hands with BJP. “For the next five years, Goa will see development which is uninterrupted and one without any hurdles,” said Shah, even as the alliance partners in the government—Goa Forward Party and Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party—stayed away from the function.
 
 Union minister for road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari said Congressmen were yet to come to terms with BJP froming the government in Goa.
 
 “Some of them told me: ‘We were invited for lunch, the plates were set, food was served and we were left arguing who will sit on which seat. You all came, ate and left, and we were left with nothing.’ The real engineer of these events was Amit Shah,” Gadkari said, adding the party had done nothing unconstitutional.
 
 “During various elections in India’s history, the governor sees that the government formation takes place as per the procedures laid down by the Constitution,” Gadkari said.
 
 He said the strategy of Congress and other opposition parties has been to spread fear that BJP is anti-minorities. “During the past five years, BJP government in Goa has adhered to the PM’s slogan of ‘sabka saat, sabka vikas’ without discriminating on basis of caste, religion or language. In the coming years, under Parrikar, Goa will see a government which believes in full transparency, fast-track decision making process, corruption-free government and one with vision of development. Goa is changing fast and will change further,” Gadkari said.
 
 Union minister for Ayush Shripad Naik, Goa MP Narendra Sawaikar, MLAs Pandurang Madkaikar and Nilesh Cabral were some of the others who spoke at the event.
 
