AHMEDABAD: The fast approaching elections are adding new vigour to the debate over which party   belongs to. BJP chose Karamsad, Sardar's birthplace, to launch its Gaurav Yatra on Sunday. While flagging off the yatra, party national president   accused   of doing injustice to Sardar. In turn, Congress accused BJP of using the Ironman's name for political gains. Patidar Anamat Andolan Samiti (PAAS), irked over the ruckus on the ground where Shah addressed public on Sunday, has lashed out at the saffron party for its hypocrisy over the Statue of Unity.

 Attacking Congress in his public address on Sunday, Shah said, "Congress did not award him Bharat Ratna after his death. Even his photo was not placed in the Parliament for many years." Chief Minister Vijay Rupani added, "Congress never allowed Sardar to take the front seat. He was always relegated to the margins."
 
 Hitting back, Congress accused BJP of misusing Sardar's name for political gains. State Congress president Bharatsinh Solanki said, "Sardar was a senior Congress leader. He was given the title of Sardar by Mahatma Gandhi. Our nation lives on the legacy of Nehru and Sardar who have done exemplary work for the nation. As BJP does not have their own leader of Sardar's stature, they are using his name for political gains. It was Sardar who had banned RSS." He pointed out that the BJP did not place Sardar's photo either in the recent   or on the Gaurav Yatra vehicle.
 
 GPCC VP Dr Jitu Patel claimed, "When Modi inaugurated Sardar Sarovar dam recently, there was no photo of Sardar Patel in government ads.BJP had claimed that Sardar's statue in Narmada would be the biggest in India, but now it has given that honour to Shivaji's statue." PAAS spokesman Atul Patel said, "BJP is doing politics in the name of Sardar. They have given the order of making Sardar's statue to China. This shows their hypocrisy. If BJP's intention is attack Patidars on Sardar's birthplace, they should stop coming here and robbing the sanctity of this place."
 
