Bengaluru: The   is worried that the imminent executive order by US president   seeking an overhaul of work visa programmes will disrupt their operations in the short-term, and have serious long-term consequences.

 “It’s a far bigger immediate threat than the proposed legislations,” R Chandrashekhar, president of IT industry body  , said, referring to the various bills that have been introduced by legislators that seek to, among other things, increase minimum wages under work visas like   and L-1. Most analysts believe that the legislation will take a long time coming, since both houses of the US Congress have to debate them.
 The draft executive order, however, has a tone that is strikingly different from anything that was seen under the Obama administration. An executive order cannot change any law, but it can ask for stricter implementation of the existing laws, and ask for proposals for changes in law. And that’s what the draft Trump order does.
 
 It asks the department of homeland security (DHS) to review, within 90 days, all regulations that allow foreign nationals to work there, and determine which of those regulations violate the immigration laws or are not in America’s interests. It asks the DHS to consider ways to make the process for allocating H-1B visas more efficient and ensure that beneficiaries of the programme are the best and brightest. It also orders “site visits at places of employment of L-1 non-immigrant workers, including third party worksites where L-1 workers have been placed by US employers.” The site visits are presumably to ensure no violations are occurring.
 
 “They could immediately demand more documentation, make it more difficult to send people on these visas. It has implications for those who are already working in the US on these visas, put more pressure on them, have higher frequency of site visits,” Chandrashekhar said.
 Stephen Yale-Loehr, who teaches immigration law at Cornell Law School, said the law concerning foreign workers in the US has not changed, but the tone has. “The Trump administration has drafted an executive order that would prioritize finding jobs for US workers over letting in foreign workers,” he said.
 
 The proposed legislations too are a concern, because of the mood they reflect – they are largely in tune with the concerns of the executive order. At least three have either been tabled or are in the process of being tabled.
 
 Peter Bendor-Samuel, CEO of US-based outsourcing advisory firm Everest Group, said what is initially proposed (in the bills) is intended to be negotiation positions designed to create publicity and discussion. The positions such as a $130,000 minimum wage, he said, are unlikely to make it into law. However, it is also clear, he said, that the existing structure under which services providers are able to utilize H-1Bs and L-1s to lower the cost of their on-shore work force will change. It will likely force them to dramatically increase hiring of US resident talent, and raise their on-shore costs, he said.
 
 Cyrus D Mehta, managing attorney and founder of New York-based law firm Cyrus D Mehta & Associates, noted that efforts are on to give priority in H-1Bs to employers who pay the highest wages. This, he said, would make it unattractive for Indian IT firms.
 
 Ron Hira, associate professor, department of political science, Howard University, said, "There have been three bills introduced in Congress on H-1B & L-1 reform. Congress acts very slowly. We’re at the very early stages of a very long process in terms of legislation.” 
 
 According to Vikram Shroff, head of HR law practice, Nishith Desai Associates, “The rejection rate of L-1 visas has been steadily increasing.” 
 
 Striking an optimistic note, CP Gurnani, CEO, Tech Mahindra, said, “We will have to wait and watch for any impact on us after a few quarters. Our business model has already gained significant maturity in examining alternatives. Indian IT has been investing in setting up delivery centers and local hiring.”
 
