THANE: With corruption and lack of transparency being its key words for the  , the local   functionaries have now launched a frontal attack on the   blaming it for the widespread corruption and   plaguing the civic corridors for the last 20 years.

 The BJP has decided to be unsparing in exposing the failure of the Sena for the inadequate basic infrastructure and the lack of amenities in the lake city. Party insiders say that though the BJP was a partner with the Sena, their numbers were near-negligible and all crucial decision-making posts such as the Mayor or the Chairperson of the standing committee were mostly cornered by the Sena or others who supported them in the house. It was just the last one year when the standing committee was chaired by a BJP corporator.
 
 Just as the CM Devendra Fadnavis trained guns on Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray in Mumbai blaming his party for the mess created in the BMC, BJP strategists in Thane are aggressively working on exposing the lapses in road construction, PWD scams, tanker mafia etc on the Sena and demand transparency in the house operations.
 
 Issues like corruption in some road development works like those in Diva and the suburbs, the failure of the party to ease the rising traffic menace, proliferation of slums and how TMC-owned recreation centres have been allowed to be usurped by private players who are in cahoots with the Sena leaders here, say insiders.
 
 “Year after year the Sena manifesto sold dreams about a new intra-city transport system, water ways, improved TMT, a state-of-the-art aquarium on the lines of one at Singapore etc etc. But all that promises were merely on paper. There has been no developmental works undertaken by the Shiv Sena ever since it was in power. Whatever little progress has happened is due to the firm steps taken by the municipal commissioner who has been given a mandate by the chief minister to ensure that basic infrastructure in the city should be improved. The city is known for its culture, but the Sena could not even repair the Ghanekar auditorium for the last six months,” said a senior political functionary.
 
 The BJP that has shared power with the Sena in the TMC corridors has now conveniently distanced itself from the ally saying they were never an active player in the politics. “The BJP was a passive partner in the house as the Sena always took the lead in all matters. We have been the underdog for years and now is the time to stand up without fear for the development of the city,” said an activist during a party conclave in the city over the weekend.
 
 
