New Delhi: One of the longest-serving core members of the founding team of Indian cab aggregator  , and currently COO of the company   is stepping down from his post.

 He is being replaced by   veteran  , who handled the Purchase-based FMCG giant’s operations in Thailand, Myanmar and Laos, said people familiar with the development. Sources close to the company said despite quitting the post of COO, Jivrajka will continue to oversee strategic initiatives at the company.
 
 Jivrajka, an   graduate, joined Ola founders Bhavish Aggarwal and Ankit Bhati in 2011, seven months after the startup was formed, and was responsible for overseeing the Softbank-backed company’s operations. 
 
 An Ola spokesperson declined to comment. A PepsiCo India spokesperson said that the company would need to check with the Thailand office. 
 
 India’s cab market, pegged at around $6-9 billion, has witnessed Ola and its arch rival California-based Uber locked in a bitter battle for market share. India is Uber’s fastest-growing business and its CEO Travis Kalanick said the company’s operations here will turn profitable soon. He did not overrule the chances of Uber, operating across 29 cities in India, doubling its pledged investment here to $2 billion.
 
 In response, Bengaluru-based ANI Technologies, which operates under the brand name Ola across 100 cities in India, has been trying to strengthen its leadership team and raise fresh funds. Till now, Ola has raised around $1.3 billion in external funding. However, its valuation was marked down by existing investor, Japanese internet company Softbank.
 
 Ola has seen several top executives quitting the company, including Rushil Goel, product lead for Ola Money, Pradeep Dodle, head of Ola’s cab category management, credited for building Ola Prime, and Harsha Kumar, associate VP at Ola. 
 
 The company has also been bullish about hiring talent from established sectors. It roped in Raghuvesh Sarup, sales director for Microsoft Mobile Devices, as its chief marketing officer and Infosys CFO Rajeev Bansal as CFO to replace Mitesh Shah. Recently, it hired SABMiller India’s MD Shalabh Seth as CEO of Ola Fleet Technologies, a wholly-owned leasing subsidiary. 
 
 
