Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s recent meeting with Israeli Prime Minister   had something every Malayali could take pride in — the souvenirs that were gifted by the PM to his counterpart were two sets of copper plates from  . While the first set of relics came from the Paradesi Synagogue from  , the second was from Malankara Mar Thoma Syrian Church in Thiruvalla, both of which are paradigms of the Jewish heritage of Kerala. 

 The caretaker of the Paradesi Synagogue, KJ Joy, sounds visibly excited as he recollects the incidents that paved the way for it. “It all began with LK Advani’s trip to Kerala last month. He and his daughter Pratibha Advani had been on a four-day trip to our State, out of which they spent two days in Mattancherry. They were telling us about how they have always wanted to visit this place and experience its history.”
 Joy showed the veteran politician the relics and gifted him a replica of one of them. “It was a charter passed by the then Hindu King Cheraman Perumal to the Jewish leader, Joseph Rabban. It has inscriptions granting certain rights and privileges, and is also endowed with three copper pieces, believed to have been engraved in the 9th or 10th century.” An impressed Advani had a discussion about his visit with the PM later, and handed over the replica to him. 
 Father Oomen Philip, Chief Functionary of the Malankara Mar Thoma Syrian church, says that the artifacts are of great relevance, given that the church has an equally strong historical past.
 
 “We feel really proud that the PM has chosen a prestigious relic from our church. 
 When the PMO visited us, three of the trustees — Father Lal Cherian, Joseph Mar Thoma Metropolitan and I — unlocked the specially protected chamber together and showed it to them.”
 The characters in the charter are inscribed in Hebrew, Aramaic and Pahlavi (Middle Persian). “These are called Tharisa Pally Sansangal (Orthodox Church Royal Charter). The charter was made when a group of immigrants arrived from Persia. They were provided with land and tax privileges by the ruler back then and were asked to lend their services to the church, according to their vocation.” 
 For such a historical artifact to have stood the test of time until now is in itself noteworthy, says Fr Oommen, adding that it’s also proof of our foreign ties.
 
 
