PUNE: Amidst demands made by corporators to de-merge Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML), chairman and managing director   said that he was only answerable to   board and not to anyone in   (PMC) or   (PCMC).

 Speaking to TOI, Mundhe, who took charge of PMPML in April, said, “I am answerable only to the board and not to anyone else. I have told my officials that they should not consider themselves inferior to officials of either PMC or PCMC. We are independent and we should be functioning like an independent company. Our employees must feel proud of working for PMPML and shouldn’t get bogged down.”
 
 When asked about the de-merger issue, Mundhe said that the PMPML will not exist if it at all happened. “I am not one to decide anything related to demerger. I have been given a responsibility and am working on it along with my officials. I have asked all my officials to stop pleading in front of the corporations and think of PMPML as their own company and take pride in it. If the losses incurred need to be borne by the corporations that is how things have been formed. This is as per the government resolution. In future, one will see many positive changes in PMPML,” Mundhe said.
 
 Elected members of Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad corporations have repeatedly expressed concern over losses incurred by PMPML and there is a strong demand that the transport utility must be scrapped and Pune and Pimpri must run transport only for their civic limits (see graphics). The recommendation for the merger of PMT and the PCMT was made by the Supreme Court-appointed Bhure Lal Committee and the Pune-based Central Institute of Road Transport. 
 
 PMPML sources said even if the corporators have been asking for de-merger, it was not an easy task.
 
 “It is an order of the Supreme Court. Earlier, when things were different with both corporations having their own transport bodies in the form of Pune Municipal Transport and Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Transport, there was a lot of high-handedness. But now the conditions are not the same. PMPML might be running on losses but things have started to change with a CMD now in place. And PCMC has gained by having PMPML,” an official said requesting anonymity.
 
 
