My association with   goes back to my convent days and childhood, when the festival meant the aroma emanating from home made kebabs and gooey plum cakes with an unforgettable crunch of rum soaked nuts and a terrific bitter aftertaste! With recollections so delicious, I always want to spend Christmas at a place where food brightens up the shadows of the days gone by.
 
  So when we decided to check in to Radisson Blue MBD hotel in Noida, we had their   on our mind. But what we got in return was a happy surprise. Shaped as a crescent, the Privy room allotted to us was luxury re-defined. Done in elegant Venetian and French style with regal furniture, the room came with turndown and butler service which formed a surprise element in the package. And trust me, it all came at a very affordable cost! Having stayed here for the first time we found the staff to be extremely polite and serviceable.
  
  After a relaxing session at Espace, the spa, when I came down for the lunch, the site that I witnessed was an inexplicable melange of beauty, creativity and taste. I generally do not get bowled over by food as I am a finicky eater, but the chefs at S18 had worked hard to create a   which was clearly beyond words.
  
  
 
  
  Roasted turkey, snowman cake, marzipan, eggnog, pavlova, trifles, mince pie, rum balls, candy canes, butter tarts, pumpkin pie, mashed potatoes, roasted potatoes, beetroot ​ and carrot mash, fruitcake, casserole and plum and rum cakes were done to perfection and turned me nostalgic as no Christmas is complete without this delectable fare.
  
  
  
  
  
  The food options were abundant even for those who were looking for a healthy meal. With a variety of soups to warm the palate, there were roasted vegetables, mashed carrots, quinoa salad, healthy seed mixes, gluten free desserts and breads.
  
  Pickled zucchini with maple chilli glaze, Fermented potato cup with pomegranate mix, Apple barbeque slow cooker little smokies, Marinated olive tree, Basil scented three pepper chicken roulade, Seafood mousse pastries and Clay oven roasted chicken morsel with bourbon chilli glaze were among the highlights of the brunch.
  
  
 
  
  This satiating brunch was special not just because of the taste and presentation of food, but also because it could manage to cover most traditional dishes retaining their original taste.
