HYDERABAD: The state government, it appears, is keen to utilize budgetary allocations for minorities in sops like   and   than in educational schemes and providing access to credit and credit facilities.

 This came to light after a RTI activist sought data from state’s minorities welfare department on budgetary allocations, release and expenditure for financial year (FY) 2015-16 and 2016-17.
 
 An analysis of data showed glaring disparity. While on one hand, the government utilised as much as 100%   on both Dawat-e-Iftar and Christmas feasts, the expenditure on components like maintenance of tuition fee (MTF), which comprises stipends to students, is abysmal. The amount spent towards   for FY 2016-17 is zero.
 
 The government’s Best Available School Scheme for sponsoring education of minority students in renowned schools for 2015-16 too drew a blank, despite release of Rs 1.4 cr. The scheme was later merged with the minorities residential schools programme. 
 
 Lending or access to credit for small-time businessmen dipped from 38.4% in FY 2015-16 to less than 20% in FY 2016-17.
 
 The case is similar to spend on training and employment. While the government has inked agreements with important institutions to equip candidates from minority communities with skills for employment, spending for this dipped from 50% in FY 2015-16 to a mere 2% in 2016-17.
 
 The commission of inquiry on Socio-economic Condition of Muslims in Telangana too noted that utilisation of funds has been poor. It also pointed out that allocation is disproportionate. “A comparative study of budgetary allocation for different welfare departments in relation to their population, however, shows that allocation for minorities is still too little,” an excerpt from the report reads.
 
 The spend of the state’s share on multi-sectoral development programme, which seeks to improve socio-economic conditions in minority-concentrated districts by reducing disparities and imbalances too is far from impressive. Utilisation of funds on this component dropped from 3.2% in FY 2015-16 to nil in FY 2016-17.
 
 Speaking to TOI, RTI activist and researcher M A Akram said, “It is not   and Christmas parties which will help in improvement of socio-economic condition of minorities. A complete utilisation of funds allocated for education and access to credit is more important than dinners. Better healthcare is also important.”
 
 
