MUMBAI: The municipal corporation is going in for a rejig of administrative wards in the city to ensure that each of the 24 wards has roughly the same number of   for administrative ease and better delivery of services. Mumbai has 227 electoral wards.

 The civic body will soon table a proposal before group leaders of various political parties to reorganize the wards A to T by combining some of them and splitting some. The total number of administrative wards will remain the same.
 
 Those wards that are to be split are in the suburbs, where population growth has been higher than in the island city .For instance, P North ward covering Malad is known for having the highest population density in the city . It will be split into two wards, as will be L ward (Kurla).
 
 On the other hand, C ward in south Mumbai comprising areas like Pydhonie and   will be combined with D ward, which includes the tony areas of Malabar Hill and Walkeshwar and middleclass Tardeo and Grant Road.B ward, comprising areas such as Mohammed Ali Road and Dongri, is to be combined with E ward, which includes Byculla and Madanpura.
 
 K West (Andheri-W and Vile Parle-W) now has 13 corporators. Some electoral wards from here will be moved into H West (Bandra-W , Khar and Santacruz-W). And three wards of M East (Deonar, Anushakti Nagar) which now has 15 corporators, will come within M West (Chembur, Tilaknagar) which has seven electoral wards.
 
  commissioner Ajoy Mehta had instructed officials to study the need for reorganizing administrative wards prior to the civic elections.“The need for this rejig was felt as we realized some administrative wards have three electoral wards some others in the suburbs have as many as 17. It was becoming impossible to administer so many electoral wards under one administrative ward,“ Mehta said.
 
 Pankaj Joshi, executive director, Urban Design Research Institute (UDRI), said the move was necessary given the de mographic shift northward.“It's important that administrative boundaries reflect this shift. The only disadvantage is that historical data will not be available. But for equitable distribution of services in relation to the population, the reorganization is a must,“ he said.
 
 Former municipal commissioner   said there are some wards with a population of 8-9 lakh, while some others have a population of barely 1-2 lakh.
 
 “Combining wards will not just reduce expenditure but would ensure better services. This is a step towards administrative rationalization and should be welcomed,“ Ranganathan said.
 
 Madanpura's Samajwadi Party corporator Rais Shaikh, who will be impacted by the reorganization, said the move of combining wards is sure to help as the staff of the two municipal wards would be merged as well, ensuring better service delivery .
 
 Film-maker and activist   said the K West ward, where he lives, is too huge, ranging from Oshiwara to Santacruz.
 
 “I feel even if the ward is being split, what would be important would be to see whether work done on the ground is effective,“ said Pandit.
 
 
 
 
 While this move is undoubtedly a welcome one as it will provide scope for better and smoother administration, the real test of this exercise will be after it ends. The BMC will then have no excuse for poor delivery of services and should strive to make the city world-class yet again. It is a good thing that civic authorities have not only recognized the need for reorganization of wards but are keen to act on the matter.
 
 
