INDORE: Chief minister   on Thursday announced plans to include lessons on the life and preaching of   in school syllabus.

 “It is because of the extraordinary preaching of Adi Shankaracharya that India has cultural unity and integrity. A lesson on his life and preaching will be included in school syllabus in Madhya Pradesh,” Chouhan announced at a function organized to mark the entry of ‘Namami Devi Narmade Sewa Yatra’ in Omkareshwar town. 
 
 In order to make people aware of Adi Shankaracharya’s teachings, the state government will set up an institute in Omkareshwar, he said. A light and sound show will soon start on the banks of Narmada river to spread information about the importance of Shankaracharya’s preaching, the river Narmada and Omkareshwar, the CM added. A “grand statue” of Adi Shankaracharya will be set up in the holy town, he said, announcing a slew of measures for development of Omkareshwar, including waving of entry tax on tourists levied by the local body and building a museum and interpretation centre.
 
 “It was in Omkareshwar that young Shankar met his Guru   in a cave and attained highest spiritual elevations. He founded the four ‘matha’ (monastries) that helped in the historical development, revival and spread of  ,” Chouhan said. On demand from the saints, he also announced regulated flow of water in Narmada river at various places round the year.
 
 He said the state government has already decided to shut liquor shops within 5km of Narmada banks. Highlighting steps taken for conservation of Narmada, he said the state has allocated Rs 1,500 crore for sewage treatment plants in 15 towns along the river. All towns and villages on the Narmada’s banks would be open-defecation-free and dense plantation would be carried out to increase water retention capacity.
 
 Calling Narmada the “lifeline of Madhya Pradesh”, Chouhan said, “It is not merely a river, it is the cradle of civilisation and represents a complete culture. This divine and mystique river has been glorified even by the Vedas. It is worshipped as Mother Goddess Narmada for ages.”
 
 The function was also addressed by saint Awdheshanand, Sadhvi Rithambara and filmmaker Chandraprakash Dwivedi. ‘Namami Devi Narmade Sewa Yatra’ started on December 11 last year from Amarkantak, the place of the river’s origin, and is expected to end on May 11. It will cover 1,831km on the southern bank, comprising 548 villages/towns and 1,513km on the northern bank, covering of 556 village/towns. Nearly half of the yatra would be covered on foot
 
 
