PATNA: Prime Minister (PM)   will commission the rehabilitation work on the Mahatma Gandhi Setu through  . Senior BJP functionary and former deputy chief minister (CM) Sushil Kumar Modi gave a confirmation in this regard on Thursday.

 The existing superstructure of the dilapidated bridge is proposed to be completely demolished and triangular steel girders, as seen in rail-cum-road bridges like the Rajendra Setu or the  , will be erected under the rehabilitation process. The girders will take the entire load of vehicles, leading to minimal pressure on the concrete slabs and pillars to ensure the longevity of the bridge. The project is targeted to be completed in 42 months utilizing an estimated outlay of Rs 1,742.01 crore.
 
 “We have received a confirmation from the office of Union minister Nitin Gadkari that the PM will commission the rehabilitation works on the Setu from January 15,” said Modi.
 
 Since 2004, over Rs 200 crore have been spent on the maintenance of the bridge which was built in 1982. The Setu is being used in a limited manner at present because of ongoing repair work on its western flank between the 43rd and 46th pillars. A viaduct of the bridge was damaged on June 10 last year which led to a lot of chaos.
 
 The Union ministry of road, transport and highways has selected AFCON Infrastructure Ltd for the ambitious project which has formed joint venture with L&T Ltd for the Setu’s rehabilitation. The repair work will be undertaken in two phases — upstream (Patna-Hajipur) and downstream (Hajipur-Patna). The upstream side will be completely demolished first and vehicles from both sides allowed to move only on the downstream side. Upon completion of repair on the upstream side, the downstream (Hajipur-Patna) will be taken up for repair in a similar manner.
 
 Absence of alternate traffic arrangements during the rehabilitation works is, however, still a matter of concern in the execution of the project. Bihar Rajya Pul Nirman Nigam Limited (BRPNNL) was assigned the task to develop two pontoon bridges underneath the Setu but none is ready. Senior BRPNNL officials have claimed that one pontoon bridge will be ready by the end of this month. As only one pontoon bridge will be opened first, one-way movement is proposed to be allowed on it. Light vehicles will move on the bridge from either side — Patna as well as Hajipur — alternately.
 
