WASHINGTON: A softer, gentler, more Presidential   emerged on Capitol Hill on Tuesday, seeking to heal a divided America on issues ranging from racism to immigration while still projecting a muscular US bound for glory in his time at the White House.

 In a nearly hourlong speech to the joint session of the US Congress, the 45th President, just five weeks into office, finally embraced the conciliatory aspect of the job, by telling all Americans, “We are one people, with one destiny“.
 
 Trump also offered a direct denunciation of the threats and vandalism against the Jewish community and the shooting in Kansas that claimed the life of an engineer from India.The incidents, he said, “remind us that while we may be a nation divided on policies, we are a country that stands united in condemning hate and evil in all of its very ugly forms.“ Trump also refined his position on immigration, calling for merit-based entry, which was prevalent before the 1960s. Switching away from this current system of lower skilled immigration, and instead adopting a merit-based system, we will have so many more benefits. It will save countless dollars, raise workers' wages, and help struggling families, including immigrant families, enter the middle class,“ Trump said.
 
 Trump's position will effectively regulate emigration into the US of the wealthy and the high-skilled while keeping out “your poor...your huddled masses yearning to breathe free...the wretched refuse of your teeming shore,“ that is enshrined on the Statue of Liberty .
 
 Trump insisted that “it is a basic principle that those seeking to enter a country ought to be able to support themselves financially“. He said the current “outdated system depresses wages for our poorest workers and puts pressure on taxpayers,“ and pointed to Canada and Australia that have a merit-based system.
 
 Trump implicitly connected immigration to extremism and terrorism, saying that those given the “high honour of admission to the US should support this country and love its people and its values.“
 
 Trump dealt only broadly with foreign policy issues while calling for a “direct, robust and meaningful engagement with the world.“
 
 Even the President's unremitting critics acknowledged that this was a different Trump from the one who inflamed US politics for a year.
 
 Trump's clarion call -“The time for small thinking is over. The time for trivial fights is behind us“ --prompted New York Times, which has been systematically eviscerating him (amid his denunciation of its failings) to note that “at precisely the moment he needed to project sobriety, Mr Trump delivered the most presidential speech he has ever given.“ Washington Post acknowledged: “This may have been the best speech Trump has given since he entered politics in June 2015, and people rooting for his imminent demise may be disappointed.“
 
