LUDHIANA: Three days after the arrest of a Chandigarh-based trader Gopinder Singh Bakhshi by PAU police, another accused Harpreet Singh Bakhshi surrendered in the court on Saturday. 

 Both the accused along with two more accomplices from Mumbai allegedly carried out a Rs17-crore fraud with a city-based businessman Vinod Garg.
 
 Police had booked Gopinder, who runs a  , his brother Harpreet Singh Bakshi and two Mumbai-based businessman Aditya Kashyap and Vishal Sharma for the fraud in 2015 on the complaint of Vinod Garg, a resident of Agar Nagar. 
 
 On Friday, police had seized all banks accounts of the brothers.
 
 In-charge at Raghunath Enclave police post, ASI Rajinder Singh said both accused have been sent on police remand till March 9.
 
 In his police complaint, Garg, 58,  , said, “In 2011, I planned to start a spinning mill in Macchiwara. For the project, I required a loan of Rs 350 crore. I decided to take it from  . Around that time, a friend introduced me to Bakshi brothers. The duo told me that they could help me secure the loan from a European firm at zero percent interest. I fell for the alluring deal.”
 
 They took Garg to Geneva for a meeting with the firm officials. After several meeting, Garg refused to take the loan, as “it would be difficult to bring the amount to India due to laws of the customs.” The trio then returned to Ludhiana.
 
 A few months later, Bakshi brothers introduced Garg to Mumbai businessmen Aditya Kashyap and Vishal Sharma.
 
 “As I run a business in Dubai too, the four asked me take the loan from there. We went to Dubai for a couple of months. Meanwhile, I paid Rs 17 crore to Gopinder to secure the loan. A few days later, Harpreet returned to Chandigarh without informing me. Soon, Gopinder advised me not to raise loan from Dubai as it would be fraught with problems. As all plans went awry, he said he would return Rs 17 crore to me,” Garg added.
 
 Garg approached the then police commissioner, Pramod Ban, after the four did not return the money even after a year. A case was registered against them in 2015 after a thorough probe.
 
 ASI Singh said police have been checking banks accounts and transactions of accused. 
 
 
