KOLKATA: With the   out of bounds for traffic from Friday midnight when the tunnel boring machine Rachana started its journey under it,   passed the traffic management test with flying colours on Saturday. 

 They managed to make the difficult task of diverting vehicles look easy with stringent enforcement of on-road parking ban in and around the central business district (CBD) and meticulous planning.   was both way, leading to Dalhousie-bound cars and cabs having their smoothest ride ever along Strand Road and Canning Street and then Brabourne Road. Cops, however, said Saturday was merely the semi-final of the traffic test. The final will be on Monday, when the office traffic will jostle for space to move forward. The restriction of Brabourne Road flyover will last till 6am on Tuesday.
 
 On Saturday, Brabourne Road could also be accessed by cars and cabs from MG Road to Netaji Subhas Road via Pageya Patti. Traffic police enforced a blanket ban on Netaji Subhas Road, which was otherwise impenetrable even by small vehicles.
 
 There was no dearth of apprehension for traffic cops and they came prepared. Howrah Bridge traffic guard officer-in-charge Raj Kumar Singh hit the road with his full force as early as 5am, and so did Alok Sanyal of Jorabagan traffic guard. “Saturday is the busiest day in Burrabazar. So the morning inward-rush and late afternoon outward rush are quite nightmarish. But there was not much problem,” said a traffic sergeant. “Traffic moved smoothly because no parking was allowed in the vicinity. We managed to ignore the tremendous parking demand of the area.”
 
 At the Howrah end, too, it was not as bad as feared. Very few south-bound vehicles, particularly buses, took Foreshore Road to move to south Kolkata via the   ( ). “We requested Howrah City police at Howrah Station taxi stand to divert the south Kolkata-bound traffic to the Second Hooghly Bridge. At Strand Road, it was next to impossible for us to discriminate between central and south-bound traffic,” said a Kolkata police officer.
 
 Howrah-bound traffic from south and north was equally smooth. From south, cars took Strand Road and from the north, they took Strand Bank Road. “Strand Bank Road is a smooth ride as we are strictly enforcing no-parking and no illegal encroachment of the carriageway,” said an officer.
 
 All through this, the engineers working with the TBM kept checking the safety parameters of the buildings and the flyover. A team monitored the equipment and their readings every 15 minutes. So far, no damage was reported, said an engineer. “But the study will not be over with the passage of the TBM. We will keep monitoring the readings for at least the next one-and-a-half months,” he added.
 
 
