Head to actor Jiiva’s den on East Coast Road, and you find a spontaneous and playful person. He loves to stay away from the buzz of the city and has his cute labrador, Bruno to keep him occupied. The actor, who started out with Aasai Aasaiyai, has proved himself with movies like Raam, E, Kattradhu Tamizh and Ko. After  , the actor is ready with his next,  , a family entertainer with elements of horror.   talks about work-life balance, working on a web series and getting trolled on the internet. Excerpts…

 
 It was Atlee who suggested I listen to this script by Ike. Also, Ike and I are friends and I know his wife, Tanya well. When I found out that Ike was Kamal Haasan’s assistant, I thought I will be doing a serious film — perhaps an army officer or a sniper. But he gave me a funny and fun-filled entertainer. And there is an added element, that of a ghost in it. We shot for Sangili Bungili...last year. I worked with a lot of actors for the first time — like Sri Divya,   and Radikaa Sarathkumar. Soori and I got along like a house on fire. Sri Divya on the other hand is very professional in her approach. We shot quite a bit in Palani. As for my role, I play a real estate broker. How I buy a house and what happens there later makes the story.
 
 
 My last film, Kavalai Vendam was an American Pie kind of film, that was targeted at the city crowd. So, I thought that I should work on a film that will appeal to everyone. This one will be like a Priyadarshan film, which has all kinds of genres. My scenes with Soori are crazy. I have done serious films, too, but it gives me a kick when I see audiences laughing to my comedy scenes in the theatre. Of late, anyone can review a film and put it out on YouTube. I do not want to be a part of a serious film that doesn’t work and get trolled (laughs).
 
 
 Yes, I don’t want to be trolled on social media. I don’t want my son to have any misconceptions about social media. Memes are all about frustrations. Internet is just a small percentage of the crowd that watches my movies. So, it’s alright. I don’t want to use social media just to update my followers on where I am having tea and what I am eating. I don’t know how so many actors have such a huge number of followers on social media. Movies don’t make as much money as the number of followers they have on social media. When a trailer gets 5-10 million views, shouldn’t the movie, too, make that kind of money? The internet has to be a platform that promotes young talent. I want to encourage youngsters through my website and help people who are interested in movies. I hope that by 2019, India will have free internet and so things will change. 
 
 
 As an actor, when I did movies like Raam, Kattradhu Thamizh and E, there was a certain freedom and ease to play those characters. But things are a little complicated now. I have to look at tax exemptions, distributors, etc. The script also changes based on these factors. So, I have to take the safe route to survive. I want to be the change and do raw films, and hope there will be a change in filmmaking. A lot of mediocre films are coming out now. A hero doesn’t have a proper characterisation. As an actor, I want to do better roles. Web series is the next big thing. If anyone wants me to act in a web series, I’m up for it. I am big on shows like GoT, Breaking Bad, Peaky Blinders and Narcos. I think we need more scriptwriters in Tamil cinema. I want youngsters to get into production. We need a lot of good stories and directors who can adapt them for screen.
 
 
 I don’t always get scripts that I like. And I cannot keep waiting for a role that matches with my sensibilities. I have to do movies regularly to sustain myself. My character in movies like Ko and Nanban were so strong. When you see people like Shankar and KV Anand putting in so much effort, you, too, wish to put in the same kind of effort. But today, they take 25 takes for one dialogue, and shoot it from three different angles. You really don’t know which one will be used in the movie finally. It gets so exhausting. Back then, there was clarity in thought. We had rehearsals, too. Today, they improvise on the set and shoot. I have never worked this way; perhaps, I am still old-school. But I am trying to adapt myself to this new way of working. I guess this works for a lot of people and I am willing to do it their way. I must also say that I like working with newcomers. I have done most of my films with debutant directors. There are pros and cons when you work with them, but their ideas are fresh. And our production house believes in promoting new talent. So, I like taking that risk.
 
 
 I am doing a film titled, Kee, which means there is good and bad in everything around us. The movie is about current affairs, hacking, leaks, etc. I play a young graduate in the film. 
 
 
 I travel a lot. From   to Amsterdam, I like going around the world. That is how I unwind and analyse myself. I know that movies are not my life. People complain that I don’t work on enough movies, but I have always been very selective about my films. I need my family time. My son is seven and I like spending time with him. Actors tend to get so involved with work that they don’t realise how tall their children have become. I don’t want to miss out on such things. I want to stay away from the buzz of the city. I have my own volleyball court, where my friends and I get together to play. I like the privacy I get on the outskirts of the city.
 
 
 
