MUMBAI: The city’s iconic   will continue to stay on road—for the next three years, at least.

 A decision has been taken not to phase out any of the 120 double-deckers plying in the island city and suburbs till 2020, a senior BEST official told TOI. This has come as a relief to commuters in the wake of the BEST scrapping all 266 air-conditioned buses and phasing out old single -deckers from the loss-making fleet. There was concern about the double-deckers as their operational cost is 55% more than that of single-deckers. 
 
 BEST had incurred losses of over Rs 1,000 crore in the transport division in the last fiscal. 
 
 “We are not touching the double-deckers. They will be maintained and operated on regular routes, specially for office-goers who find them spacious and comfortable on feeder routes from stations,” the official said.
 
 These double-deckers ply scores of commuters daily during peak hours from the office hubs of Nariman Point, Colaba, Bandra-Kurla Complex and other commercial hubs in Santacruz and Andheri (East).
 
 “The double-decker is so iconic that we do not want it to be taken off roads at all,” said Supriya Khare, a regular bus traveller from Kurla (West) to BKC. Another commuter, Arun Shanbag, recalled the “fun” he had travelling on the upper deck of a bus at Marine Drive. “Many prefer the front seats of the upper deck as you can simply enjoy the cool breeze. It is a refreshing experience and you also get a beautiful view of Marine Drive,” he stated.
 
 The BEST double-deckers have been running on the city roads since 1937. In fact, the undertaking was the first organization to have introduced double-deckers in India. The service was launched to cope with the increasing number of commuters in buses and was modelled on the lines of London’s red double-decker buses.
 
 For decades, BEST had 242 double-deckers in its fleet, but the numbers gradually dropped to 122 a few years ago, and after phasing out a couple of buses, it is now 120. Double-deckers also exist in a few other Indian cities such as Kolkata, Kochi and Thiruvananthapuram, and there are plans to reintroduce them in Bengaluru soon, an official said.
 
 According to officials, the cost of operation is high for a double-decker. “The operational cost is Rs 70 per km for a double-decker as compared to Rs 45 per km for a single-decker. Also, the double-decker needs an additional conductor, which adds to the establishment costs. It also consumes more fuel than a single decker,” an official added. 
 
