MUMBAI: The   on Wednesday ordered   Hemant Nagrale to conduct an inquiry into telephone calls made reportedly by the secretary of a minister to the court receiver. The court receiver was executing the HC orders to take possession of  , Navi Mumbai, and hand them over to public agencies on whose land the unauthorised structures had come up.

 A division bench of   and   asked the police commissioner to submit the report within a month.
 
 “Somebody sitting in Mantralaya should not be doing this,” the judges had observed on Tuesday when the calls were first brought to their notice. According to the report, on February 22, 2017 calls were made to the court receiver's office by a person claiming to be the personal assistant of the guardian minister. On March 2, when the court receiver's staff was on the site at Digha to take possession of a building, a person asked him to speak on the phone to a man on the other side claiming to be personal assistant of the minister.
 
 The court was hearing petitions about the failure of civic bodies to act against illegal buildings in Digha. The state has unveiled a new policy to protect and regularise illegal buildings in urban areas across Maharashtra that were constructed prior to December 31, 2015. The state said that as per the policy all illegal structures that have been constructed after this date will be pulled down. The benefit of regularisation would not be available for structures declared as slums or are unsafe, or on government land, prohibited areas and buffer zone. The court had, at an earlier hearing, questioned provisions that allow for regularisation of illegal structures on public land subject to a no objection certificate from the planning authority and legalising structures in residential zones. The court said the provisions leave loopholes in the policy and could have disastrous consequences. The state insisted that the laws like the development control regulations and MRTP would prevail and the policy was intended to bring in uniform rules with regard to regularisation and charging of premiums. The high court has reserved its verdict in the case.
 
 
