MEERUT: One of the oldest Ramlilas in Meerut is set to see role reversals, this  . While Laxman and Sita here are twin brothers, Ram happens to be their classmate and best friend.

   , 16, will play the role of Laxman, his twin brother Anuj Chaturvedi will enact Sita. Their best friend   Chatuvedi, 17, will play the role of Ram.
 
  The three kids, who are class XI students at a private school in the city and even share the bench in their class, are part of the 27-member team of Anant Bhakti Prakash Ramlila Mandal from Mathura. They will perform at one of the oldest Ramlilas in Meerut’s Gymkhana Maidan.
 
  Aditya, who will play Laxman, said, “I started acting three years ago after my paternal uncle persuaded me to take part in Ramlila. Since the beginning, I have been playing the role of Laxman as people say that my facial expressions suit the character. It was only after my twin brother saw me acting and found it interesting that he followed the suit.”
 
  Anuj, who will play the role of Sita, said while smiling shyly, “A year after Aditya started acting in Ramlila, I agreed to participate too. Earlier, I had played the role of Ram’s brother  , but now, I am playing the role of Sita. Aditya is a minute older than me and he protects me even in real life. He obviously teases me sometimes, because I am playing a woman’s role. But, it doesn’t matter which gender I get to play.”
 
  The twin brothers -- Aditya and Anuj-- and their classmate and best friend Deependra will fight evil in the form of Ravana together as the three protagonists in the Ramlila on Gymkhana Maidan stage.
 
  Deependra, who will play the role of Ram, said, “I have played the role of Sita ever since I started acting in the year 2010. But for the first time, I will play the role of Ram this year. It is a great feeling to be the hero of the play and along with my best friends, the happiness doubles.”
 
  The three best friends have taken leave from school for rehearsals and will return to their school after Dussehra celebrations get over.
  The three arrived in Meerut on Tuesday.
