CHENNAI: MDMK leader Vaiko on Sunday criticized Madras high court judge S Vaidyanathan for wondering why it could not exhume the body of former chief minister  's body considering the secrecy surrounding her medical treatment before her death on December 5. "Saying that Jayalalithaa's body should be exhumed is most unwarranted, most unfortunate and most uncalled for," said Vaiko. "I express my regret and dissent. He is a judge, but there should be a limit," said Vaikio, addressing reporters in Chennai. 

 The MDMK leader, who recently met Prime Minister   and hailed his demonetization move, demanded to know what evidence the judge had to utter such words. "His words have hurt several judges too. He has exceeded his limits," said Vaiko, who last week decided to break away from the People's Welfare Front of which he was the convenor.
 
 Vaiko said the funeral of Jayalalithaa held on the Marina beach had been attended by several dignitaries, including President  , Prime Minister Narendra Modi and several political party representatives. "The judge has now raised a doubt and issued notices to Apollo hospital and others. Did Apollo hospital doctors hush it up? Did AIIMS doctors hush it up? Did Dr   hush it up?" asked Vaiko.
 
 On December 29, Justice Vaidyanathan asked, "Why can't we order exhumation of the body of former chief minister J Jayalalithaa?" He then issued a notice to the Prime Minister, state and central governments and others. A vacation bench of Justice Vaidyanathan and   had rapped the Centre, saying, "You went there, but you have not reported anything. You knew everything but reported nothing for reasons best known to you. You kept quiet." The AIADMK had reacted strongly, wondering how it was possible to hush up the health condition of a top leader particularly when she was treated by a panel of top Indian and international doctors. "Words like he may order exhumation of the body have hurt the cadre. The matter will be dealt with legally," AIADMK spokesperson C R Saraswathy had stated.
 
 
