NASHIK: Tried replacing or setting right the faulty   or live wires on your own? Think again. Handling electrical appliances and wires without training caused 63 deaths in just nine months. 

 These deaths were recorded in the Nashik zone of Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company (MSEDCL) between April and December 2016. The figure is slightly higher than the number of such deaths (61) recorded in 2015-16. 
 
 In addition to the deaths reported in 2016, 40 persons, including the power utility staff, were injured in the same period. Of the total 103 mishaps recorded, maximum (31) were due to accidental conduct with live wire and equipment. 
 
 MSEDCL officials have expressed concern over the rise in such deaths. “In some recent cases, farmers were electrocuted when they attempted to fix   on their own. Investigations revealed that faulty electrical appliances, lack of safety measures such as proper earthing lead to such fatal incidents,”  , public relations officer of the Nashik zone of MSEDCL, said.
 
 The power utility, however, has done precious little to create awareness among the consumers about the need to seek expert help to get electrical work done. 
 
 “Take for instance, a plug in a house develops a technical snag. The consumer simply takes a screw driver and opens the circuit without the knowledge of the system. This is absolutely not advisable. It can even result in fatal mishaps,” said Rajesh Hivale, an electrical contractor.
 
 Hivale added that such work would hardly cost Rs 50 to the consumer. “When a consumer does the repair or maintenance work on his own, he can boast of how he fixed the problem. But if the person meets with an accident, he hardly tells anybody. This is the reason most mishaps are not reported,” Sanjay Pagar, another electrical contractor, said.
 
 Consumer activists, however, claimed that the MSEDCL is not serious about tackling the issue that most users experience. “MSEDCL is expected to conduct some awareness programmes for consumers time to time. This is possible for the every sub-division level offices. But such activities do not take place,” said Vilas Deole, an activist of  . 
 
 He added that the company itself is responsible for the large number of accidents involving snapping of live wires or conductors. 
 
 “In rural areas, people and animals often come in contact with the live wires that are lying unattended on the ground– especially in the rainy seasons. The MSEDCL should pay keen attention towards this issue,” Deole, also the former employee of MSEDCL, said.
 
