New Delhi: Educating the   is the underlying theme of the ‘Power of Print’ contest which will be launched on Monday by India’s largest media conglomerate, The  .

 With the country missing out on $33 billion worth of economic growth annually by not educating girls equally, Times Group’s initiative aims to promote the cause—#EducateTheGirlChild, by inviting creative teams across agencies to produce a print campaign based on a live brief set out by a brand/company.
 
 The objective of the campaign will be “to ensure that more girls go to school”.
 
 For the first year, FMCG major   has come on board as the partner brand. The company will release the winning campaign in the Times Group publications with a multi-crore budget. In addition, the winner will grab the ‘Power of Print’ award at the Kyoorius Creative Awards (KCA) in June and get to go to the Festival of Creativity at Cannes Lions.
 
 “We are very excited to partner with   Group on this initiative and especially pleased that the entire advertising community is coming together to contribute their creativity towards this cause, leveraging the print medium,” said Suresh Narayanan, chairman & MD at Nestle India, which kicked off the #EducateTheGirlChild campaign in August last year through an internal event.
 
 The idea behind the ‘Power of Print’ contest is to bring out the best of print creativity in the country and make it work for a company or brand. The contest is open to all communication agencies, including creative, media, digital and PR.
 
 “Print advertising is one of its kind and appeals to all the five senses,” said Raj Jain, CEO at BCCL. “Just like a book is almost always better than the movie based on it, we believe print advertising has so much more to offer. I think this programme will help spur creative minds and rekindle the romance with the medium.”
 
 The entries will be judged by a panel comprising Prasoon Joshi, Bobby Pawar, KV Sridhar, Raj Kamble, Santosh Padhi, Arun Iyer, Senthil Kumar, Kainaz Karmakar, Swati Bhattacharya, Shrijeet Mishra and Chandrasekhar Radhakrishnan.
 
 
