Panaji: Chief minister Manohar Parrikar on Monday directed Golden Globe Hotels Pvt Ltd (GGHPL) to move MV Lucky Seven, grounded at Miramar, back to Mormugao Port Trust (MPT).

 The sixth casion had failed to enter River Mandovi due to a sand bar obstruction and was consequently grounded at Miramar beach on Sunday. Ignoring warnings by port authorities, the vessel, owned by former Haryana home minister Gopal Kanda, has been trying to sail into River Mandovi for the last three days, albeit unsuccessfully.
 
 Speaking to mediapersons at the assembly complex, Parrikar said that the vessel grounded at Miramar beach is not a casino. “Boat is a different issue and the casino is a different issue,” he added.
 
 Parrikar said the vessel was in distress at sea and the owner of the boat had approached the high court which in turn has directed the state government to allow it as a refuge vessel in River Mandovi, with specific technical requirement.
 
 “We have told them they cannot bring the vessel into the Mandovi because of the weather,” Parrikar said, adding that the vessel will be taken out with the help of a tug.
 
 On whether the government will allow the vessel into River Mandovi, Parrikar said “I don’t think we should take any more risks.”
 
 He added that the owner of the boat had approached the high court and the court asked the government to consider their request to allow the vessel into the Mandovi, and we gave them the opportunity. “The opportunity proves what we were saying (that the vessel cannot be brought into the Mandovi during the monsoon),” he added.
 
 Parrikar also said that a tug will tow the vessel to the MPT. On whether he will consider the coalition partner’s demand that offshore casinos be converted into onshore ones, Parrikar said all these issues will be spelt out in the casino policy.
 
 Calangute MLA Michael Lobo said that North Goa collector should issue a showcause notice to the company of the vessel as it could be disaster. He added that the government can also challenge the high court order stating that the government does not want a sixth offshore casino and that it should operate on land.
 
 BJP spokesperson and Curchorem MLA Nilesh Cabral said that Big Daddy casino is not a fresh licence but an existing one.
 
 Town and country planning minister Vijay Sardesai said he has always made statements on casinos responsibly. “I believe that more offshore casinos should not come and I think that a new casino should have not come,” he added.
 
 
