NEW DELHI: In a bid to rebuild itself after the battering in the assembly elections in UP, Bahujan Samaj Party is looking to start by painting   as anti-OBC and anti-Brahmin, a move the party feels can reposition it with communities whose shift knocked the bottom out of its challenge.

  will go to the people next week with a raw identity-oriented message revolving around BJP’s choice of chief minister. Its line of argument is that BJP picked Aditya Nath – an upper caste Thakur with Hindutva background – after it had lured   voters with the face of UP unit chief   and repeated assurances that their representative will be made the CM.
 
 “When it came to appointing the CM, BJP followed its anti-Dalit/OBC mindset and humiliated the ‘backwards’ by appointing Maurya (deputy CM) under Aditya Nath,” the party argues.
 
 BSP will kick-start its monthly demonstrations in every district on April 11 to protest against the “rigging of EVMs” that it says is the reason behind BJP’s victory in UP. 
 
 But the protest appears to be a pretext to resume mobilisation since the assembly drubbing has left BSP with little time to prepare for 2019   polls.
 
 The   leadership has circulated “talking points” to its office-bearers who will lead the demonstrations. It provides a peep into the tack that   is banking on for political revival.
 
 The party focus is on OBCs/MBCs because BSP lost the vast voting bloc to BJP in 2017 contest.
 
 According to the Dalit outfit, the choice of an upper caste as CM reinforces the abhorrence the saffron family has for “backwards”. To corroborate its claim, BSP plans to argue that BJP had opposed the Mandal commission and toppled the VP Singh government to thwart 27% reservation for OBCs.
 
 Seeking to draw a pattern in BJP’s political actions, BSP argues that like 2017 UP polls, BJP had used  , an OBC, to grab power in pursuit of RSS agenda (Babri demolition in 1992) and then orchestrated the fall of Kalyan government, even as it tried hard to “saffronise” OBCs.
 
 “BJP has betrayed the OBCs many times and we hope the communities would be careful of the party in future,” BSP says.
 
 Besides, BSP is also trying to play on Brahmin-Thakur fault-lines by arguing that choice of Aditya Nath implies a cold-shoulder to Brahmins.
 
 Its focus on Brahmins appears rooted in the belief that while upper castes are consolidated behind BJP at the moment, BSP can position itself favourably behind Brahmins while hoping that the fault-lines will work at a latter date. 
 
 Brahmins helped BSP win big in 2007 assembly polls but were swayed by BJP in this election.
 
