Born in Etawah, the fiefdom of   patriarch  , 52-year-old professor of Hindi at  , Ramshanker Katheria, in his second term as Agra MP has been projected as Dalit face of the saffron outfits.

 Belonging to Dhanuk sub-caste, Katheria was taken into Modi cabinet in December 2014 and appointed BJP's national general secretary in what was seen as its bid to woo Dalits. His removal from Modi cabinet, some said, was because of under performance, while others said the party plans to utilise him in poll-bound UP. Believed to be in the race to become the CM face of BJP, Katheria has been lying low since the Mayawati-Dayashanker Singh episode. He speaks to Rajiv Srivastava about prospects of his party and his own...
 
 
 
 I am just a party worker. There are many leaders senior to me. I am nowhere.
 
 
 
 There is no dearth of leaders. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, national president NETA Amit Shah and UP BJP president Ke NATTER shav Maurya, besides many senior leaders. They are all the party's CM face. Everyone knows the parliamentary board will decide who would be the CM.
 
 
 
 Outsiders coming into BJP is a good thing. Whenever a political party assumed an effective role and people believe it will come to power, leaders from other parties start joining it. It is the character of politics and not happening for the first time.
 
 
 
 The party will consider sitting MLAs who have potential to win, though they haven't been taken in with a pre-condition.
 
 
 Party workers understand that the priority is to ensure that the 14-year exile of the BJP ends for good governance, hence compromise.
 
 
 
 BJP leadership has given clear directives for nepotism not to be promoted in the party. But if someone has worked for the party and has potential to win his case should be considered.
 
 
 
 The question doesn't arise of my seeking ticket for any family member.
 
 
 
 That is not true. We have resumed Dalit outreach programmes. From January 11, Dalit meets will be held under the aegis of the party .
 
 
 
 No, I am very much involved. Since we have to look after our consitutencies too, I might not be visible everywhere.
 
 
 
 
 Our party's agenda is devel opment and good governance.We are into politics not for power but to bring change. The way Modi government has moved forwards on the path of development in the last two-and-a-half years is for everyone to see. As far as the controversial statement is concerned, I can say it is his personal view and party leadership will look into it.
 
 
 That is an old story. I had not said anything controversial and it was media that made it snowball.
 
 
 
 There is no harm in that.
 
