NAGPUR: After successfully meeting result announcement deadlines for exams, Nagpur   is likely to do the same for revaluations too. The exam section is set to announce all   results for around 28,000 claims it had received by August, probably next week.

 The development offers major respite to backlog students as winter exam for them are starting from October 3 while the regular examinations are scheduled for October 24.
 
 This is the first time in last four years when the exam section would be declaring revaluation   well before the start of winter exam. In 2013, revaluation result announcement had been delayed by a year. Last year, too, many students had not got the result for their first or second semester while they had progressed to the final year of their course.
 
 Generally, many students clear after challenging their first assessment of answersheets but the revaluation result comes when they have already appeared in respective exams. This meant not just additional burden of study but also financial loss in paying exam fee beside revaluation charges per paper. Besides, several students had also lost an academic year because of the delays that rendered them ineligible for the subsequent semester exam.
 
 Director, Board of Examinations and Evaluation,   on Saturday had convened a meeting of chairmen of special task committees to take stock of the process. “I had targeted the declaration of revaluation result before October 3, when the exams for backlog students are starting. So far, it seems we may be able to announce the results by Monday,” Khaty told TOI.
 
 He added that only MSc botany, biotechnology, molecular biology, BCA and BA answersheets remain to be processed. “This too could have been revaluated 15 days before but valuers not reporting for work and assigning the job to some else consumed much time,” he said.
 
 Khaty said that vice chancellor SP Kane had given permission for backlog students to appear in the forthcoming winter exam in case they clear in revaluation.
 
 “Using his special powers, the VC has allowed the students to fill winter exam forms before leaving for London,” Khaty said.
 
 Since the exam section has been evaluating answer sheets both manually and on-screen, the revaluation was done accordingly. On screen was done for science, professional papers of BCom, MBA and education faculty courses. Bachelor of Arts and rest of BCom papers were re-assessed manually.
 
