BENGALURU: Prodded by the   and faced with a barrage of protests by Kannada outfits, chief minister   asked the   (BMRC) on Friday to drop Hindi from its signage.

 This means only Kannada and English will be on all signboards.
 
 The chief minister has written to the Centre that the three-language format would be counterproductive, given the sentiments in the state, and that Kannada and English in signage were more practical.
 
 Despite two attempts by protesters to deface its signboards, BMRC had continued to use Hindi saying it was operating under instructions from the Centre. In the past few weeks, as the agita tion intensified for the state language policy to be implemented, BMRC sought instructions from the state government to do away with the three-language format.
 
 LK Ateeq, principal secretary in the chief minister's office, confirmed to TOI the government had issued instructions to BMRC to use only Kannada and English. While this should put an end to the ongoing controversy, it may not be a permanent solution since the Centre is an equal stakeholder in the project and is yet to weigh in.
 
 In his letter to Union urban development minister Narendra Singh Tomar, chief minister Siddaramaiah wrote: “I would like to submit that the stand of the Government of India of using the three-language formula is not reasonable. Although both the Government of India and government of Karnataka have equal (50:50) equity stake in BMRC, the financial contribution of the state government is much more than that of the central government. Moreover, the supervision of operations and providing security to BMRC are the responsibility of the state government.“ The letter, a copy of which is with TOI, said the state “has also undertaken to repay all the loans contracted by BMRC and bear the operating losses. Therefore, it would be appropriate that the policies of the state government are implemented in the project. I would therefore request you to review your earlier decision in this regard“.
 
 The Centre had instructed BMRC in December to follow the three-language policy. Accordingly, signage was in Kannada, English and Hindi. Siddaramaiah said protesters had been dealt with strictly when they tried to deface the signboards twice this month but added that the agitations could not be taken lightly.
 
 “You would agree that in the face of continued agitation and demands from litterateurs and intellectuals for giving primacy to the language of the state and the languages with which people of the city and the commuters are familiar, it is counter-productive to continue to insist on the use of three languages including Hindi,“ he said in the letter. “It is not essential to use Hindi in signage as the commuters who use the metro are comfortable with reading and understanding Kannada andor English. Therefore, the state government is compelled to ask BMRC to temporarily redesign the signage and name boards in metro stations without using Hindi,“ he said.
 
 BMRC, however, said it was unaware of the order. “We are yet to receive such a communication from the government,“ MD Pradeep Singh Kharola said, without specifying whether BMRC would implement such an order.
 
 Kannada activists and writers spearheading the protests welcomed the move. “BMRC has been violating the state language policy since 2011and although it has taken the government so many years to act, the decision is welcome and we hope that the government ensures its implementation,“ said Arun Javgal of Banavasi Balaga which started the language agitation. Writer Baragur Ramachandra said the larger issue was “intrusion of the federal structure“ in local cultures and sentiments. “Removal of Hindi from signage is only a symbolic move,“ he said.
 
