Lucknow: Despite assurances of banning idol   in   this year, both district administration and Lucknow municipal corporation failed to keep devotees from immersing Durga   in the river. Though the extent of pollution caused is yet to be calculated, experts believe just the synthetic paints used in idols is enough to adversely affect the water and aquatic life.

 The ten-day festival which ended on September 30 saw 116 idols immersed in the river near Jhoolelal Vatika. The numbers are less compared to those of last year’s — close to 161 idols — but the administration believes there must be hundreds of smaller idols that were immersed in Gomti but didn’t make it to the official list. 
 
 The extensive riverfront construction and cleaning work initiated by the government had anyway taken its toll on the health of Gomti which reported lesser water at many places. To avoid further pollution, the state machinery had planned to prevent idol immersion after Navratri this year. But poor planning and lack of enforcement saw all Navratri pandals immersing idols in the river.
 
 Trans-Gomti ADM Anil Kumar said, “We couldn’t impose the rule of idol immersion in barricaded pits because we have very little time to make arrangements for the same. Earlier, devotees took idols on boats to the middle of the river for immersion but this year, the irrigation department built a temporary platform on the riverside at Jhoolelal Vatika. This prevented people from polluting the middle of the river and all immersion was restricted to the sides.”
 
 He said it also saved time as immersions got over by 9.30 pm. Earlier, it took till midnight to finish immersions of all the idols in city. “This year, however, we ensured all the puja waste; like flowers, sweets, incense sticks etc; was not dumped in the river but disposed inside a pit nearby,” said LMC’s in charge. Creating pits near banks to dispose puja waste is an old concept but was never followed strictly till date. But this year, it was strictly implemented. Next year, the administration aims to completely ban idol immersion after creating enough pits near the banks to accommodate all idols.
 
 
