HYDERABAD: With many hoardings becoming potential death traps during rains, the   ( ) has imposed a ban on all flexies that display advertisements on hoardings and unipoles till June 15.The result, advertising agencies will have to immediately remove their flexies from about 2,900 hoardings and 350 unipoles in the city.

 “The decision has been taken by the civic body keeping in mind the safety of people and their property . The   (IMD) has informed the municipal corporation about the possibility of the city witnessing up to 510 cm rains with gusty winds ranging between 100 and 150 km per hour. The weather conditions could also lead to lightening, thunder and hailstorms in the coming month,“ GHMC commissioner B Janardhan Reddy told TOI.
 
 GHMC officials said that the havoc unleashed by the heavy rain and hailstorm in the city a couple of days ago led to the collapse of four hoardings, causing damage to property and vehicles.This, even as flexies at several locations were torn to tatters by the gusty winds.
 
 The civic body had imposed a similar ban last May after a heavy downpour led to hoarding and unipole collapse incidents, especially at Jubilee Hills Checkpost. The ban was lifted only after three months (in August 2016) after advertising agencies complained about their flagging business.
 
 According to experts, hoardings and unipoles collapsed as they lacked structural stability . Last year, GHMC had constituted a panel of engineers with representatives from IIT, JNTU-H and Osmania University to check the structural stability of all hoardings and unipoles in the city.
 
 But the civic body did not crack down on advertising agencies flouting the norms on structural stability of hoardings and unipoles. The civic body also looked the other way when these agencies erected another 1500 hoardings and unipoles without permission.
 
 The   (MA&UD) department did prepare a draft advertising policy a couple of years ago but it has not been finalized yet, reportedly due to strong lobbying by some advertising agencies.
 
