PUNE: During the third edition of   in  , a stretch of the   turned to a hub for activities for the young and old alike.

 “This is a very good concept. It should happen regularly across the city. The event can be conducted in the evenings too,” said commissioner of police Rashmi Shukla, while on her visit to Happy Streets in Baner.
 
 A huge crowd gathered at the live stage event to watch the hip-hop dance performance by Jokerz group. “Chandan Jaiswal choreographed the dance performance. We come all the way from Nigdi to perform at Happy Streets. This is a great platform to showcase our talent in front of a lively audience,” shared Sujit Jaiswal, co-founder of the group.
 
 Ramnarayan Kushwaha, a software professional from Ravet, was also present at the event. “We loved the Drum Circle, cycling, badminton and dance events. I suggest that the event organisers place dustbins at regular intervals,” said Kushwaha. He has been a regular at Happy Streets and, despite the distance, along with his family he has attended Happy Streets organised at Aundh and Pimple Saudagar.
 
 Chalk Art, Game Zone, Kids Arena, Zumba, Street Soccer, Skating, Badminton, Drum Circle, Meditation, Toys from Trash, Camping and Adventure Activities were some of the events held at the event on Sunday.
 
 Finance professional Nina Hemrajani attended the event with her three-year-old daughter Salonee. “The entire concept is really good. It promises a fun time for kids and adults alike. One thing I would want change in the next Happy Streets is that there should be different space for skating and cycling. The place turns overcrowded by the time the event concludes and it becomes a bit difficult for young children to walk freely while there are cyclists roaming around in the vicinity,” she said.
 
 Jyothsana Bhavarsetti, a medical writer, pointed out that Happy Streets provides a break out from the daily routine. “This is a very colourful event. At this age, we all lead a very secluded life and we are not used to interacting with strangers in a crowd but this is a much better way to initiate children into getting along with everyone. This is like an urban mela for nuclear families,” said Bhavarsetti.
 
 Rahul Awasti, an IT professional, who lives in Ravet was at the Happy Streets event for the first time. “Ravet is at an end of   but I came to Happy Streets because the children love the event. They especially enjoy the kids zone, with all the games. I think the event should happen at more places and more regularly,” said Awasti.
 
 Hyderabad residents Kanta Chunilal and his wife were visiting their daughter in Pune when they came to know about Happy Streets. “This event should be organised in other cities as well. People in cities will love the concept,” said Chunilal.
 
 Happy Streets is a citizen-led initiative supported by The Times of India and Maharashtra Times in conjunction with Pune Police, Pune Traffic Police, Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation and  . The event, powered by Vilas Javdekar Developers, is aimed at promoting the concept of vehicle-free roads for fun and engaging community activities.
 
