PATNA: The   (BERC) will hold public hearings in five cities of the state from February 17 onwards to finalise the   proposed by   Power Distribution Company and South Bihar Power Distribution Company for 2017-18.
 
  The two discoms submitted their tariff petitions to the BERC on December 26 last year. As per their proposals, the urban and rural power consumers will have to shell out Rs 1.27-Rs 2 per unit, translating into a hike of 20-21% on the energy bill.
  
  BERC chairman   told TOI on Thursday the commission would pronounce its tariff order by the end of March after the public hearings.
  
  “The commission will seek suggestions/objections from stakeholders during the hearings, which will be sent to the discoms for their replies. We will analyse the suggestions and the replies before pronouncing our order,” said Negi.
  
  The three-member BERC headed by Negi is a regulatory body, mandated to fix electricity tariff for all types of energy consumers every year. As per the schedule available on the BERC's website, the first public hearing will be held on February 17 at Muzaffarpur, which will cover Saran and Darbhanga divisions as well, followed by one at Bhagalpur on February 20, which will also cover Munger division.
  
  The next public hearing will be held on February 21 at Purnia, which will cover Saharsa division as well, followed by one at Gaya on February 23 and the other at Patna on February 27 and 28.
  
  Though power tariff has not been hiked for three years, sources claimed the BERC is likely to accept the discoms’ proposal this time in the light of a recent order passed by the   (APPTEL), New Delhi.
  
  The APPTEL on November 25 last year set aside the BERC’s order of March 21 which had prohibited the two discoms from upping tariff for 2016-17.
  
  Hike apart, the discoms have proposed certain incentives as well for advance bill payments and rural consumers. For instance, an additional rebate of 1% is proposed to be provided to consumers paying power bills before due date. Besides, 6% interest will be given on advance payment of power bills.
