NASHIK: Mercury has rarely been as fickle as it is turning out in the fag end of this winter in Nashik.

 From quite-an-unusual 8.6 degrees celsius in the morning, which was a sharp 4 notch down from Saturday’s lowest minimum temeprature, the mercury took little time to soar to 31.5 degrees celsius — a degree higher than the normal with Nashikities covering themsleves against a summer-like warmth. 
 
 “The sudden drop in temperature could be attributed to the change in wind pattern. The continuous flow of cool northerly winds across Rajasthan, Gujarat and Konkan and Goa region has dragged the mercury down below the normal levels in many parts of Maharashtra,” said R B Mankar, a senior official from Nashik’s weather observatory. 
 
 While Nashik’s lowest temperature went below the 9 degrees mark, nearby Niphad recorded 6.6 degrees celsius — the lowest in February. 
 
 India Meteorological Department officials said the cold winds will be replaced by the relatively warm and humid southeasterly ones in coming days. Private weather forecaster Skymet has also forecast that the temperature will increase further in the next 48 hours. 
 
 “For the next couple of days, many areas in the region will experience above-normal temperatures. The morning and night weathers will be cool but day-time temperatures will be high. In February, the maximum temperature in Nashik was more than the average constantly for the last 10 days,” a Skymet notification stated. This amalgamation of warm and humid winds is likely to increase the minimum temperatures as well as making way for summers to come soon. 
 
 The global warming saga that resulted in above normal temperatures in the latter part of 2016 is set to continue during the rest of February and March. A recent IMD outlook has indicated that the average temperature in all of  , including India, will be higher by 1 degree C during the two months as compared to the temperature observed during this period in previous years.
 
 The outlook says that February is likely to be warmer than March. Northwest India, which includes parts of Rajasthan, Punjab, Haryana and Delhi, will be warmest regions in the country during the two months. Spatially, the outlook indicates that the average temperature during February and March will be above normal over all of South Asia, with an “extreme temperature departure“ of around 1degree C most likely over India (except for south peninsular India), Pakistan, Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Myanmar and Sri Lanka. 
 
