NEW DELHI: A hookah gurgling in her wrinkled hands, 80-year-old Shakuntala Devi looks bemused when civil defence volunteers tell her things can now be bought without paper money . She knows about barter, but the octogenarian cannot believe her agricultural village of Surakhpur on the   border can survive without cash.

 And yet, the district offici als of Najafgarh hope to have tiny Surakhpur cashless by the middle of January , and if not, at least have its inhabitants empowered with the choice of a digital mode of pay ment. If Surakhpur proves a success, similar campaigns will be held in 26 other villages.
 
 But can a village go cashless when its girls are still discouraged from using mobile phones? Taboos like these are being taken head-on by the volunteers of the district administration and bankers, who converge on the chaupals every day to train the villagers on transactions without currency notes, mainly through  's instructional films. Their aim: ensure the 200-odd households here have at least one   account linked to a mobile and an Aadhaar number.
 
 “For our experiment, we selected Surakhpur because it has no ATM, and the nearest bank is 3km away in Mitraon village,“ said sub-divisional magistrate Anjali Sehrawat, leafing through the villagers' consent forms. Surakhpur, with its small population of 1,100, makes for a realistic theatre to test out the concept of atre to test out the concept of a fully digital economy .
 
 Like people everywhere, Surakhpur's inhabitants were wary of change, and resisted the persuasions of the volunteers, according to tehsildar Suchet Singh. Some even prevented the films being screened at the chaupals.But the villagers have been gradually won over. Shakuntala Devi's grandson Anand Kumar, for one, is more receptive of the idea now. “I would not have been forced to take a loan for buying seeds last month if this option had been available,“ he said of e-wallets, having learnt about them at the chaupals.
 
 Appropriately enough, it is the chaupal, the social centre of the village, that is the hub of change. Here, new banks accounts are opened every day , Aadhaar cards are created and mobile linkages are offered to the newly banked villagers.
 
 Nobody knows for sure how old Surakhpur is though some elders hazard it could be 300 years ago that their ancestors, mostly Jats, moved in. The 15-acre village has little urban infrastructure other than two grocery stores, both of which reported heavy credit sales after the November 8 demonetisation.
 
 Soma Solanki, 38, owner of one the stores, said that she owned a smartphone and had a bank account, but had never learnt to use these for cashless trade. The future looks promising. “At least we will not have to do the rounds of banks and all the udhaar will also stop,“ she smiled. Of course, there still are doubts about whether the two shops can afford to pay the rent of the point-ofsale swipe machines that the administration wants to install there.
 
 Residents, most of them agriculturists and some employed by the government, recall the Bank of Baroda removing the only ATM in the village two years ago for underuse. Now they have been told they are on the cusp of a revolution and are waiting to be “taught how to use the new money“. Poonam Dagar a partly literate housewife, asserted, “There might be some initial hurdles, but we will eventually learn. We don't want to miss out on the benefits.“
 
 The change to digital transactions is a big leap for the small village, and there are peculiar obstacles to overcome. Female volunteers will deal with gender issues, like girls being allowed access to phone.Phone and internet connectivity, crucial to the effort, are daunting propositions, but the district administration is aware of the pitfalls and is determined to create the right architecture for the cashless village of Surakhpur.
 
