GURUGRAM: Gurugram will soon have India’s first for-the-residents and by-the-residents farm fresh organic fruits and vegetables market. The initiative which will be called   will be launched in association with the  .

 Green Leaf India is the name of the community of residents enrolled for the city’s community gardening project. As of now there are seventy people enrolled in the project and the department is launching the next phase of the project which have seventy more urban famers growing organic vegetables and fruits.
 
 “We are working on a system where the residents enrolled in the community gardening project will reach out to their friends, family and neighbours in their condominiums through WhatsApp groups for their demand of organic fruits and vegetables,” said  .
 
 He added an office will be set up in the name of the Green Leaf India which will have a central order, distribution and delivery system which will take the produce to the consumers. “The whole business will be run by the residents with our support,“ said Khan.
 
 According to the officials at the horticulture department, the community gardening project has received amazing response from the residents. The department has thus decided to launch the next phase of the project.
 
 Many of these community farmers pitched the idea to take their organic produce to more households. “I took this project up because I wanted to grow my own food and also find out if what we are sold in the name of organic is actually organic,” said   who is a professor living in Gurgaon and a allotte at the community gardening project.
 
 She added that enabling people to buy organic produce fresh from the farms will be a dream come true for her. To make things further transparent, there will also be a source tracking system for the consumers where they can find out where actually their fruits and vegetables came from.
  
 Khan said that so many people are duped in the name of organic and on the other hand farmers are being discouraged to grow organic as there is not enough demand in the local mandis. Hence the horticulture department has also decided to make organic farmers in Gurgaon a part of the venture.
 
 “There are currently around 148 farmers growing organic fruits and vegetables in Gurgaon and they will all be a part of the initiative through us,“ said Khan. The vegetables will sold at maximum of 50% premium compared to the non organic market prices for fruits and vegetables.
 
