KOLKATA: She is the first black woman to head a  . She has been a  . She has also been the high commissioner to Australia. Despite being a life member of the Labour Party, she was recommended by   for the top post of   for humanitarian affairs. So when Valerie Amos rose to deliver a lecture at the Presidency education summit, everyone expected sparks to fly. But she floored all with her matter-of-fact language while driving home her point that “any rejection of a global connection is detrimental because we see ourselves as global citizens”.

 As part of Presidency’s bicentenary celebrations, the 61-year-old baroness was in Kolkata on Thursday to talk on a subject as sensitive as “globalization/anti-globalization and retreat into nationalism”. As she spoke, she touched upon all “main global challenges facing our world”, be it Brexit or a political upheaval in the US.
 
 Non mincing words, Amos said, “Brexit, something we were against, but it’s going to happen. We must find out new ways to ensure that the connectivity continues.”
 
 According to the director of London University’s School of Oriental and African Studies, “the most important thing to do is to push the confines of language, knowing that 75% of the world’s population do not speak English”.
 
 There was no denying the forces of globalization, driven by new technologies such as the internet. The way forward, Amos felt, for governments, would be to ensure that the next generation goes beyond borders instead of attempting to mitigate the effects of globalization and retreating into a forced nationalism and protectionism.
 
 Referring to her UN experience, she talked about “major political issues getting between countries” and the need “to pay attention to history… with Iraq, Iran and Afghanistan, we wouldn’t not be where we are now if there were some attention to history…” Amos also called for “language fluency and understanding of religion.”
 
 Her school’s Presidency connection runs deep now that the two institutions have signed an MoU for academic and educational cooperation, which includes student-exchange programmes, research and presentation of results. “Presidency has such a long and distinguished history, but we’re going to give you a pretty run for your money,” Amos smiled, adding that she was “ever proud to be a globally connected institution, and that our partnership Presidency helps us do it.”
 
 About her institute, she said, “Everyone is a minority there. That diversity is critical of learning. You are also learning when you are not learning, engaging in debate and discussion. There are many challenges to an institute in the current global context.”
 
 
