MUMBAI: In the hot and humid ground-floor room of  , which was facing a power cut, Dr Ashok Dhoble would have been pardoned if he had kept his talk short. But the dentist spoke at length at this madrassa in the sprawling Malvani slum of Malad. A group of young students, accompanied by their teachers, were all ears as Dhoble emphasized the importance of oral health, and listed steps to prevent tooth decay and other ailments caused by consuming tobacco. 

 "Since healthy teeth help you chew food properly, which is essential to stay fit, you should not ignore them. Brush twice a day, in the morning and before you go to bed, and you can keep many diseases at bay," he said, demonstrating the proper use of the toothbrush with the help of jaw model. 
 
 For Dhoble, honorary general secretary of the   (IDA), holding such a demonstration is not new. What is novel about the exercise is the venue and his audience: Students at a madrassa who are studying to become clerics, imams, preachers and teachers. "This is the first time that I have visited a madrassa and addressed its students. We will hold more such sessions in madrassas across the city," said Dhoble, even as some women dental professionals from   are already preparing to reach out to other madrassas by taking their numbers from the Malad seminary's principal Maulana Naushad Alam.
 
 Reaching out to madrassas with oral health awareness camps is crucial. Run on the community's charity and starved of infrastructure, these Islamic seminaries are in urgent need of attention from groups and individuals working for public health. Since these madrassas are mostly located in ghettos, which are increasingly becoming dens of drug peddlers and addicts, awareness camps for oral health are necessary. So, while advocating an anti-tobacco life, Dhoble also mentions the many health hazards of drug use. "Drug kills you silently. They kill your senses and rob you of the stamina to do anything meaningful and render you a burden on your family and society. Kick the habit if you have fallen for it," he said.
 
 He advised both students and teachers to stay away from paan and gutkha. Maulana Abdul Qadir, an Arabic teacher, appeared to be convinced by the suggestions. "I am now thinking to stop chewing paan," he said with a smile, his stained teeth giving proof of the maulvi's unhealthy habit.
 
  (14), a student in hifz (memorization of the Quran) course, echoed many when he admitted that oral health is certainly not part of the madrassa curricula and students deserve such "informative" sessions. "We are engrossed in studies since morning to almost midnight and it helps us when someone tells us that apart from keeping our clothes clean, we also need to keep our teeth shining," said Ali.
 
 Besides getting lessons on how to keep themselves insulated from terror outfits such as   and al-Qaeda, madrassas also deserve to know how to keep diseases away, including those caused due to poor oral care, said a teacher.
 
 Since healthy teeth help you chew food properly, which is essential to stay fit, you should not ignore them. Brush them twice a day, in the morning and before you go to bed, and you can keep many diseases at bay...Stay away from paan and gutkha 
 
 Since healthy teeth help you chew food properly, which is essential to stay fit, you should not ignore them. Brush them twice a day, in the morning and before you go to bed, and you can keep many diseases at bay...Stay away from paan and gutkha.
 
