MADURAI: In order to create awareness on the ill effects of smoking and obesity,   commissioner Aneesh Sekhar has announced separate rewards for those who quit smoking and those who maintain their body in good shape. He was addressing the participants of third  , an initiative to encourage people to use non-motorised transport and come out onto the streets to socialise every Sunday morning through an array of activities. 

 Sekhar said 4 grams of   would be up for grabs for an obese participant who loses the maximum weight. He also promised an unspecified reward for a person who takes a pledge to quit smoking and successfully follows it. “Those interested can registered their names at the exclusive stall here. They can weigh themselves and get registered. Smokers can take a pledge by taking selfie in the stall. Those who successfully get rid of the bad habit can share their story among the participants,” he said. 
 
 The Sunday’s happy street which had the tag line ‘Vandiye Varadhu Vandhu Vilaiyadu’, took place between 7 am and 10 am. Traffic on VP Rathinaswamy Road between Bibikulam bus stop and farmer’s market was brought to a standstill. While alternative arrangement was made for the commuters, the road was let out to the residents to pursue activities they were interested in. A large number of residents from the locality interacted with people who thronged the area from other parts of the city. Children enjoyed various activities including skipping, yoga, skating, football, cricket, badminton, cycling, dancing and singing. A live band and disco jockey team from Madurai enthralled the crowd. Apart from entertainment shows, a dance programme by special children from   home also kept the crowd riveted.
 
 Sekhar said that he was overwhelmed by the huge crowd which turned up for the event and wanted to encourage more people to participate in it. The awards for participants and residents alike were part of this measure and intended to drive home a social message for healthy living. Happy Street which was launched in April did not take place in June as  , the commissioner who started the programme, was transferred to Tirunelveli as district collector. 
 
