NAGPUR: State’s education secretary   feels that the district’s potential to excel in academic parameters is hampered because of ‘inherent inertia’. 

 Speaking on the sidelines of an education seminar in the city, Kumar said a lot more was expected of Nagpur in ensuring school-private partnership with regards to raising fund for necessary infrastructure. With an aim to leverage technology for increasing quality of education, the department targates to install 32” LCD TV sets in every class of schools across the state by March 31. 
 
 Kumar said, “Rural areas are doing so well with very minimum infrastructure. Gondia is showing good results in implementation of government policies and campaigns even though there’s hardly any major industry present to donate funds. In Nagpur, you have so many bigwigs present to help out with charity but obviouslythe legwork needs to be done by officials here.” 
 
 He cited example of a school in rural part of   where everything had been done using funds raised through charity. “A senior official of union HRD ministry had come to see the school and was impressed. 
 
 He also said that a government company based in Nagpur has substantial amount of funds available under corporate social responsibility (CSR) and that the education department must apply for it. “Even if 1% of that amount is donated, it will be more than enough for us,” said Kumar. 
 
 The education department’s top bureaucrat also hinted that the controversial ‘Selfie with students’ attendance mobile app will be back. The mobile app requires teachers to take a selfie with students and upload it. But due to protests by political parties and teacher associations over the app, the department stayed it indefinitely. 
 
 Kumar denied that the app has been canned forever and said, “We will have to take strong steps to ensure that every students stays in school and gets an education. For this some measures may not be popular, but it does not mean that they are wrong.”
 
 When talking about raising the quality of education, Kumar said, “Teachers are paramount when it comes to raising the bar on quality education. If a student is not learning properly then there has to be self-introspection done to see where things are going wrong. Teaching a child is a collective responsibility and no one can shrug off any part of it,” said Kumar. 
 
 He was in city as the main speaker for a one-day seminar organized specifically to talk about state’s flagship project ‘Pragat Shaikshanik Maharashtra’ which aims to ensure that every student achieves proficiency in predefined academic parameters. 
 
