GURUGRAM: A man   of   who was out on bail has killed a young man by slitting his  . 

 The body of the 20-year-old youth was found in a farmhouse in   village around 2am on Sunday. The accused, Sombeer (25), managed to flee after committing the murder but was arrested on Monday and produced in a city court. Subsequently, he was taken on a one-day police remand.
 
 The victim, identified as Sonu, was working in a cowshed of the farmhouse run by one Sandeep. The accused man was the caretaker of the cowshed. Sonu, who had come to   from Nagaiur district in Rajasthan, had started working in the cowshed from July 13. On Sunday night, Sombeer turned down Sonu’s request for three days’ salary in order to visit his village. Subsequently, there was a brawl between the two on the issue of salary advance and he   Sonu’s throat with a sharp weapon. Sonu was hired on Rs 500 per day.
 
 Early on Monday morning a neighbour saw the body of the youth lying inside the cowshed and informed the village head, who in turn reported the matter to the police. Later, a team led by SHO Sandeep Kumar from the Sector 10 police station reached the spot and took the body in its custody.
 
 During investigation the police found that Sonu had been missing from his native place for the past three months. The police informed his family members and handed over the body to them after a postmortem.
 
 The cops have registered a case against the accused under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC.
 
 “We have arrested the accused who confessed to having committed the murder. We have taken him on one-day police remand for questioning. The cowshed operator will be questioned soon as he provided the job of caretaker to a criminal who was involved in another murder earlier,” Kumar said.
 
 “The accused had confessed to having killing a resident of his village in 2014 by slitting his throat. He was out on bail now and the case is being heard in Delhi’s Rohini court. We are questioning the accused,” said  , DCP (crime), Gurgaon.
 
