NASHIK: An additional 250 jobs might open up by December next year as   Industries Ltd is planning to invest Rs 250 crore in setting up a new   facility for   products near  .

 The new manufacturing unit will be located at Naradana industrial estate of Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation ( ), around 30 km from Dhule.
 
 Sudal Industries, a Bombay Stock Exchange listed company, is also in the process of expanding its production capacity at its existing unit. The expansion at its Nashik facility will generate employment for 100 more professionals.
 
 The company is in the business of manufacturing aluminium extrusion and alloys, having more than 9,000 diess of various size & shapes to meet consumer needs.
 
 Managing Director of Sudarshan Industries, Sudarshan Chokhani told TOI, “We are in the business of manufacturing aluminium products. We are in the process of expanding our production capacity of the Nashik facility. We have already enhanced the capacity from 300 metric tonnes per month to 450 metric tonnes so far. We will reach 800 metric tonnes in the next few months. This expansion will provide jobs to 100 more people. The total production capacity of the new manufacturing unit will be around 20,000 metric tonnes per annum.” 
 
 Apart from this, the company is expanding its roots to Nardana MIDC, near Dhule with a new manufacturing facility. “We have already bought 40 acres of land in MIDC. This will be the mega project for manufacturing aluminium extrusion and alloys. We had signed an MoU with the state government four years back, but could not start the project due to a slowdown. Now, we are going to start the construction work for the building from October this year and the proposed manufacturing unit will start operations within a year after, that is by October-end of 2018,” said Chokhani.
 
 He said that the new facility will provide employment to around 250 working professionals.
 
 The company is also expected to register a sales turnover of Rs 95 crore in the current financial year 2016-17 and has set a sales turnover target of Rs 140 crore during the next financial year 2017-18.
 
