MANGALURU: Planning to use a   for   such as  ? 

 Think again. You will stand on the wrong side of the law in doing so. Intelligence apparatus in the country is extremely sensitive to the issue and has sent out warnings to police across India to keep a strict vigil on use of drones for civilian purposes including the one mentioned above. The intelligence input has reiterated a circular from Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) dated October 7, 2014, to press home this point.
 
 The DGCA, in April 2016 in its proposed guidelines for unmanned flying devices, stated that drone users need to secure permit and a unique identification number for their operations. This has been done as part of efforts to regulate operations of unmanned flying devices like drones, which are increasingly posing challenge to regulators and personnel manning airspace, warranting guidelines for civil use of such machines.
 
 Superintendent of police Bhushan Gulabrao Borase, who reposted the DGCA circular in the local media and police WhatsApp group, told TOI that the intelligence machinery too is concerned about the use of drones for civilian purposes. “While the DGCA circular focusses on negating civilian use of drone, one cannot discount the security threat that drones pose to individuals and vital installations dotting the country,” he said, reasserting adherence to these guidelines.
 
 The circular also bars use of drones during any government functions. The SP said police have been directed to confiscate or destroy drones with cameras during government functions and those seen in the vicinity of vital installations. “We will0 book criminal cases against the drone owner and operator in such instances without fail,” he said, urging people to desist from doing so. About private use of drones for general or hobby photography, SP said even this is prohibited.
 
 The DGCA draft guidelines state it will register all civil unmanned aircraft and issue a UA operator permit (UAOP) on case-to-case basis. As of now, the aircraft rules do not cover use of drones as well as their sale and purchase. The DGCA in October 2014 restricted the use of drones and unmanned aircraft system by civilians. Even the global airlines body IATA had expressed concern over safety and operational challenges with respect to drones.
 
 
