Chandigarh: Chandigarh municipal corporation has identified around 10 community centres in the city which are to be demolished and rebuilt with additional requirements and facilities. 

 All such buildings are over 25 to 30 years old. The civic body has prepared the estimates of reconstructing Sector 38-based   which is around Rs 4 crore, while paper works for others will also been completed soon.
 
 Significantly, after receiving numerous requests from most of the municipal councillors, city mayor Asha Jaswal had constituted the committee led by former mayor Arun Sood to visit all such places and prepare the report. This report will now be placed in the upcoming monthly house meeting of the MC for detailed discussion and approval of the members.
 
 “The committee has visited all such areas and found around 10 such community centres, which call for complete upgradation. Hence, they committee has decided to demolish and rebuild them at the same place. However, in some areas, the space is less and thus, we are planning to look for some other place to construct the community centres,” said Arun Sood who is heading the committee.
 
 Sources in the civic body said since old community centres have very limited space, they can accommodate a very less number of people. Moreover, there is no parking and other required facilities in such centres. But as per new specification, two functions can be held simultaneously in some of the newly built centres and there is a plan to replicate the same specification in these planned centres. Ramdarbar, Sector 30, 21, 20, 37, 38, 30 are some of the areas where new centres are expected to be built.
 
 Significantly, the MC has already approved one such project to construct new community centre after dismantling the existing one in Sector 38. The project will cost Rs 4.93 crore. As per engineering wing of MC, the community centre of Sector 38 is very old and was constructed with old specifications about 32 years ago. Hence, the condition of the building is quite poor.
 
 
