PATNA: Chief minister Nitish Kumar, who is perceived to be an ‘image-conscious’ politician with zero tolerance for corruption, is faced with a dilemma whether to sack his deputy   or keep the government going by keeping mum after the   booked the latter in a case related to benami property.
 
  Nitish, who has been recuperating from viral fever at Rajgir for the last two days, has the track record of asking at least four of his ministers to resign on grounds of corruption charges against them. Those included former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi, who had to resign within four hours of being inducted in the Nitish cabinet on November 25, 2005. Manjhi was asked to resign as he was facing a vigilance case in a fake BEd degree racket in the 1990s.
  
  The then transport minister Ramanand Singh had to resign on May 17, 2008 after a vigilance case against him had come to light. Singh was chargesheeted by state vigilance bureau on May 24, 1990 in a case of purchasing pipe of inferior quality when he was posted as fuel technologist at Kanti Thermal Power Station in Muzaffarpur district, before joining politics.
  
  Similarly, Nitish dropped the then excise minister   on February 18, 2010 in the wake of controversy over his allegations that officers at the CM’s secretariat were also involved in a multicrore scam of excise department.
  
  Again, Ramadhar Singh resigned as cooperative minister on May 19, 2011, as he was declared an absconder in a case registered against him for giving a communal speech in Aurangabad district in 1992.
  
  The then excise minister Awadhesh Kushwaha had also resigned on October 11, 2015 after two videos showed him allegedly accepting Rs4 lakh as a bribe from individuals posing as ‘businessmen from Mumbai’.
  
  Ministers apart, Nitish-led JD(U) has also expelled a number of its members over graft and criminal charges. MLA Sarfaraz Alam, son of   MP Mohammad Taslimuddin, was suspended from JD(U) on January 23 last year after he was booked for allegedly abusing a couple on Rajdhani Express.
  
  Similarly, MLC Manorama Devi, whose son Rocky Yadav was arrested in connection with killing Gaya school student   in a road rage, was suspended from JD(U) on May 10 last year.
  
  The JD(U) suspended its MLA Mewalal Choudhary on February 22 this year after an FIR was lodged against him in connection with irregularities in appointments in Bihar Agriculture University at Sabour during his tenure as its vice-chancellor.
  
  “If he is the same Nitish, who was with us for seven years in the NDA government in Bihar, then he should definitely sack both the minister sons of RJD chief Lalu Prasad — Tejashwi and Tej Pratap Yadav. What more can happen than the CBI registering an FIR against the deputy CM, who along with his other family members, is facing corruption charges? If Nitish wants to retain his clean image, he must act against Lalu sons,” said senior   functionary and leader of opposition in state legislature Sushil Kumar Modi.
