HOSHIARPUR: Hoshiarpur police has booked two youths for raping a 15-year-old girl, a few months after the crime was committed. It is learnt that the victim’s   had first intervened in the matter and disposed of the case as a ‘stalking incident’. The parties had reached a compromise on July 6, with a written record of the same signed by the victim’s parents and members of the panchayat.

 In the compromise, copy of which is available with TOI, it was also stated that both sides would not pursue any legal action against each other and that grouse of the parents, who had alleged ‘stalking’, remained settled.
 
 According to the parents of the girl, they came to know about the repeated sexual assaults by the two accused, one of whom runs a gas agency in the village, when the girl got unwell and her medical examination revealed that she was pregnant.
 
 While the matter remained talk of the village, the case was registered after the news reached RTI activist Parvinder Singh Kitna, who brought the matter to the notice of the Hoshiarpur SSP.
 
 “As soon as we came to know about the issue, a police official was sent to the victim’s home in the village. We have registered the complaint on the statement of the girl’s father. The victim’s statement is yet to be recorded,” said Chabbelwal police station SHO Devinder Singh.
 
 In his statement, the father, a daily-wage worker, told the police that his daughter was mentally unwell and very gullible. The father has told the police that the two accused had taken her out repeatedly and raped her many times, said the SHO, adding, that as per statement, when they came to know about it the girl was taken by her sister to a “nurse” for an abortion.
 
 The SHO said, “The mater had not reached the police. Had they come to us we would have taken an immediate action.”
 
 However, village sarpanch Kulwinder Kaur’s husband Parveen Soni told TOI that the family had complained about stalking alone and that was mentioned in the compromise agreement. “They had not complained of rape,” he alleged, producing a written complaint by the victim’s father to that effect.
 
 The two accused – Kalu, who runs the gas agency, and his friend Jagat Singh, have been booked under sections 363, 366 and 376 of the IPC, along with provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act and both are on the run now.
 
 
