PATNA:   of Magadh Mahila College, Stuti Shree of Patna Women’s College and Gaurav Kumar of Vanijya Mahavidyalaya bagged first, second and third prizes, respectively in an inter-college poem recitation competition organized by Vanijya Mahavidyalaya on the occasion of Dinkar Jayanti on Saturday. A large number of students from different institutions of the city participated in the contest. Inaugurating the contest, former commerce teacher and legislator Rama Kant Pandey recalled the qualities of Dinkar and said the great national poet had equal command over prose and poetry.   retired Hindi teacher   was the chief guest. College principal B N Pandey presided.

 PU centenary celebrations: Even as Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to inaugurate the centenary celebrations of Patna University (PU) around mid-October, the university is gearing up to celebrate its 101st foundation day on October 1. PU authorities have appealed to all the teachers, students, non-teaching employees, alumni and members of the syndicate and senate to attend the function to be held at the historic   on October 1, which is incidentally a holiday as per the university calendar.
 
 Deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi and education minister K N Verma will be the distinguished guests on the occasion. The toppers of all undergraduate examinations of the last two batches (2016 and 2017) will be awarded   medals at the function. 
 
 Cleanliness drive: On the third anniversary of ‘Swachh Bharat Abhiyan’, the Central University of South Bihar (CUSB) organised the ‘swachhta hi seva’ event on its premises on Saturday. Teachers, staff and students enthusiastically participated in various activities as part of the drive. Participants vowed to keep their surroundings clean and hygienic. The programme was coordinated by Dr Priya Ranjan, S P Shrivastava, Kaushal Kishore and Dr Samapika Mahapatra.
 
 College of Arts and Crafts: A drawing and sketch contest was organized by the College of Arts and Crafts on Saturday. Students displayed their creations at the event. The students were asked to draw any statue available inside the college premises or any other natural object. College principal Ajay Kumar Pandey and other teachers evaluated the performance of the students.
 
 KV students shine: Kendriya Vidyalaya-Gaya and K V Kankerbagh bagged the winner’s trophy in group dance and stage play, respectively, at an inter-school cultural programme organised by K V Khagaul here on Saturday. Around 250 participants from 20 schools participated in various events. Supriya of K V Darbhanga and Anshika Raj of K V Kankerbagh got the prize in solo dance junior and senior categories, respectively. In Sanskrit ‘shlok’ recitation, Pushkar Kumar of K V Saharsa and Ashmita of K V Barauni won in junior and senior categories, respectively.
 
