KOLKATA: Neel Dasgupta is making promises to his electorate that nobody believes. The incredulity is not because they think he will go back on his words but because they have not heard anything like that in   before.

 The manifesto of the second-year student of comparative literature in   includes “real issues” like clean toilets, free wi-fi, sanitary napkin vending machines and round-the-clock medical store on campus.
 
 The issues that remained afterthoughts even till a couple of years ago are suddenly dominating the main narrative on campuses, indicating a positive democratisation of campus elections and a changing discourse that reflects the real concerns. These issues are a far cry from global or national issues that have dominated the discourse even in college elections.
 
 “In every class there are only a handful of students who are deeply interested in global and national big picture. Rest want better facilities in college. We have to raise their issues,” said Dasgupta.
 
 In  , campus elections have thrown up a burning issue — frequent incidents of campus fire. The Independent Consolidation has made it an issue in the elections due on January 30. The other issues include cleaning up of the playground, conducting admission tests properly and gender sensitivity.
 
 “Not only do these fires reflect the university in bad light but also means hazard for students. We have decided to make this one of our issues,” said  , contesting for the general secretary post .
 
 The candidates are admitting that there is a pressure on them to highlight issues that affect students. A member of   in JU said the rise of ABVP in the engineering department has played a role in changing their tact. “The students there are not inclined towards the geopolitical issues. ABVP raised issues related to the university. It prompted us to also change our tact,” said the candidate.
 
 Another reason is the orientation of students on the campus. “The curriculum is huge and time is less for students to concentrate on anything else. Moreover, most are job centric. To strike a chord within them, we have raised issues like wi-fi and multi-lingual question papers,” said Neel.
 
 Does this changing discourse points towards a bigger churning on the violence-marred campuses in the state? Educationists feel this is the beginning. “The change in the narrative indicates that students want inclusion in the election process. The campaign around such issues also reflects that the agenda is being set by real people and not being imposed from above,” said educationist Hasnain Imam.
 
 Students are happy that finally somebody is raising their concerns. “There are pressing issues in our own backyard. We need to sort those out first,” said Sharmila Guha, a JU student. “As representatives, our job is to serve their interest,” added Titir Chakraborty, a former students’ leader of Arts Faculty Students’ Union. 
 
 
