JAIPUR: The assembly was stunned on Tuesday when NPP legislator Kirori Lal Meena alleged breach in the chief minister’s security and said a hardcore criminal, along with his ‘gang’ of 50 supporters was allowed access to   at her residence here on March 2.

 Meena demanded to know if it was an intelligence failure or should it be considered a political patronage of criminals. The legislator named one Hariram Jat, who had come to the chief minister’s residence, with prior appointment, with his supporters to thank Raje for the rollback in power tariff for farmers. He told the house that   had at least 28 criminal cases lodged against him and was booked under the Rajasthan Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Act (RAJPASA).
 
 “This man (Jat) and his gang reach the CM residence and tie her a pheta (turban) and she then places that pheta on that hardcore criminal’s head. So, should I consider it a political patronage,” Meena, asked home minister Gulab Chand Kataria. He added, “How will that man’s terror be removed (from common man’s psyche). He is threatening the legislators and chairmen. If a political party’s senior leaders are associated with such a criminal, I do not believe any action will be taken against him.”
 
 Parliamentary affairs minister   objected to Meena’s statement saying it was difficult to know who among the crowd had a criminal record. “He came to CM residence with prior appointment,” the NPP legislator countered and added that Jat was later made vice-president of BJP’s Kisan Morcha.
 
 Home Minister Gulab Chand Kataria assured the house to look into the matter. “Based on the district police and CID reports, we have provided and in future also we will provide protection to every MLA facing threat,” Kataria said, responding to Meena’s adjournment motion on legislators facing threats from criminals. Independent MLA Hanuman Beniwal disputed Kataria’s claim and soon the two exchanged sharp remarks.
 
 “I am not a home minister of BJP but of the 7 crore people and will provide protection not just to legislators but also to the common man,” Kataria said. He told the house that 45 people were jailed under RAJPASA under his tenure so far and it was the highest number in a decade. The home minister said Hariram Jat’s case under RAJPASA was rejected by the high court. Meena claimed that case was stayed but not rejected. “Why did the state government not appeal against the court’s stay order,” Meena asked.
 
