CHENNAI: Thousands of passengers travelling within   as well as to destinations outside the state have been severely inconvenienced after the railways cancelled at least 31 train services — 28 on Sunday and three on Monday — due to the   protests.

 Some Southern Railway officials, on condition of anonymity, said last-minute decision to cancel trains had only added to the worries of passengers.
 
 On Sunday afternoon, for instance, the railways cancelled the Chennai Egmore-Tiruchendur Chendur Express at 2.50pm — less than 90 minutes before its departure. The railways announced the cancellation of   (5.30pm) and   (5.45pm) at the same time.
 
 The cancellation of the Okha Express (a bi-weekly express train between Kochi in Kerala and Okha in Gujarat) left many passengers travelling to Gujarat stranded at the originating station.
 
 Officials admitted that Southern Railway does not take decisions quickly and this affects passengers directly.
 
 “This stems from the fact that all passenger trains are loss-making units for the railways,” a senior official said. “The authorities wait till the last instant to make a decision on to whether operate a train, or cancel or delay the service.”
 
 For the maintenance of dozens of trains in the southern districts officials had to divert them through alternate routes like Virudhanagar and Erode. This was the fallout of protesters stopping a train on a bridge near Madurai three days ago.
 
 In Chennai, suburban Mass Rapid Transit System (MRTS) trains were overflowing with commuters. Stations were also packed with crowds. Several youngsters and families were forced to travel on on the footboard of coaches. Despite all of this, Southern Railway did not operate additional services.
 
 The railways’ response was in direct contrast to other commercial transport utilities near Marina Beach, which used the crowds to rake in the moolah.
 
 Officials in Southern Railway did not respond to queries, but off-the-record, officials admitted that the problem was, once again, lackadaisical decision-making.
 
 “Even during the 2015 floods, only after the media pointed out the fact during a press meet, did the DRM run additional services to help volunteers carry food and other essentials to flood-hit areas in Velachery and Perungudi,” an official said.
 
 
