MUMBAI: An IndiGo aircraft grounded in January following an engine fire was allowed to fly again by the Bombay high court, but only after the airline secured a bank guarantee for BMC's Rs8 crore octroi demand for two imported aircraft engines, reports Swati Despande . 

 Under civic octroi rules of 1965, the duty is on import of goods used, consumed or sold in the city. The bank guarantee is the highest for octroi in the last five decades, said a civic official.
 
  The airline had dragged the BMC to court disputing the octroi demand. The issue raised was whether an aircraft engine, comprising a part of the aircraft when imported into Mumbai to be fitted into an plane to enable it to fly out of the city, would be seen as amounting to 'use' of such a spare part for levy of octroi. 
 
 A bench of Justices M S Sonak and Anil Menon said the issue needs "factual determination, particularly with regard to the term 'use' within Mumbai." Last month the HC directed the civic octroi collector Adesh Bhangle to decide whether the aircraft engine would be liable, based on rules, law, SC rulings and facts of its use. Pochkhanawalla said Bhangle would give the airline a personal hearing.
 
 The HC felt keeping the aircraft idle, in the meantime, would serve no purpose. But significantly for BMC, it said "in the present facts, it would be appropriate if the corporation is secured to the full amount of octroi which may become due." 
 
 The airline's Delhi-bound airbus had to abort flight due to the snag and all its 165 passengers and six crew were safely deplaned in Mumbai. The aircraft has since remained stalled in the city. For it to become airborne again, Interglobe Aviation Ltd, which runs Indigo, imported an engine from the US. It sought octroi exemption on January 28 for an engine saying that the engine was to be immediately sent from Mumbai to Gurgaon, its base.
 
 An exemption is permissible if goods are exported out of the city within seven days of import under Section 194A of the Mumbai Municipal Corporation Act. The exemption would set back the airline by a mere Rs 100, the cost of the 'N' form in which to apply for it. The octroi duty, on the other hand, at 5.5% of value of the engines, would set them back by Rs 4 crore for each engine. The BMC relies on the customs valuation for its octroi calculations.
 
 The airline found that fitting one engine didn't enable the plane to fly and was advised to import one more. It sought a waiver on octroi for the second engine too. On February 10, the BMC declined the exemption and withdrew the one granted on January 30 for the first engine import. The denial led the airline to court.
 
 BMC counsel Jimmy Pochkhanawalla said the airline had wrongly represented that the engine was for transit to Gurgaon, despite attaching it to the grounded aircraft, and thus it was not for export "as imported." But  , counsel for the airline, said the aircraft was being flown out of the city so it wasn't being "used" here.
 
 The engine was fitted on the aircraft and switched on and complete in all respects as part of the aircraft. It was thus 'used' in Mumbai, the BMC counsel had argued and contended that the "airline would have got away with this misrepresentation had not the second engine also become defective - at which point the octroi department became wise."
 
 Chagla's contention was that not being exported immediately but fitted into the plane to be flown out of Mumbai "makes no difference as it was not for use within Mumbai within a determinate time." "The import, thus, would not satisfy the octroi levy test of 'use' within Mumbai," was the airline's case. 
 
 Chagla also argued that a court ruling in a similar tussle between   and BMC had settled the issue in its favour, but Pochkhanawalla said the facts in this case are different. In the Jet Airways case, which is pending in the  , the entire aircraft, not merely parts, was brought into Mumbai and flown to Delhi.
 
 But if the octroi collector does hold the airline liable, the BMC cannot encash the bank guarantee for three weeks to enable the airline to challenge the decision.
 
