HYDERABAD: The first edition of the   Achievers Telugu States 2017 Awards on Sunday honoured stalwarts in  , including institutions, hospitals, physicians and specialties.

 The awards were given across categories like young achievers, rising stars (cardiac and cardio-thoracic surgery, andrology, cosmetology, critical care, dental services, dermatology, gastroenterology and GI surgery,  ,  ,  , interventional radiology, nephrology, neurology and neurosurgery, oncology, ophthalmology, orthopaedics, paediatrics, pulmonology, radiology urology, vascular surgery, emerging hospitals and best hospitals of the year across specialties.
 
 Hospitals were also awarded for the best innovative business models apart from indi vidual doctors who are 'legends' in their area of speciality. Among lifetime achievers were Dr AV Gurava Reddy (orthopaedics), Dr B Bhaskar Rao (cardiology and cardio-thoracic surgery), Dr Kasu Prasad Reddy (opthalmology) and Dr Ramesh Kancharla (pediatric gastroenterology and hepatology). The awardees were selected after several rounds of assessment.
 
 Speaking at the awards ceremony, Rajnish Ricky, director of response BCCL pointed out that contrary to popular belief, newspapers do not have a short life span. A recent study by BBC has revealed that newspapers actually draw undivided attention. Highlighting the upgrade in the Hyderabad edition which has become far more interactive and empowered and engaged citizens with the `Citizen Reporter' column, he said, “The Hyderabad edition has touched the hearts of people in both states. I can assure you that TOI Hyderabad will be a catalyst for change. After winning Delhi, TOI is a clear winner in the south now.“ Ratan Jalan, founder and principal consultant of  , which is the knowledge partner for the awards, said the Times Healthcare Achievers Award has been conceptualised to help citizens with a navigation tool to find the best facilities.
 
 Renowned healthcare practitioners Dr Mahendra Bhandari, Dr Lily Engineer and Dr Luv Verma were the jury members for the awards.
 
