JAIPUR: In order to ensure proper safety and  , colleges and parks,   is all set to launch an all-   The work of the squad would be similar to that of the   of Uttar Pradesh; however in Jaipur the youth and men found indulging in   will be punished by these women cops only. 

 These teams while patrolling will directly detain youth and men involved in eve-teasing or other kind of harassment of girls and women and will hand them over to the police station concerned. Jaipur police after giving training to these special women cops is all set to launch the squad in the coming week.
 
 "They will work in two shifts and will patrol on a bike across the city. We will finalize the sites and spots where they will roam around in the city to help the girls and women," said Prafful Kumar, additional commissioner of police (crime) while talking to TOI on Sunday. 
 
 He added that there would be two squads comprising of 12 women cops, each on motorbikes and would work in two shifts of 8 hours each. "During day time the team would be asked to patrol in the areas including public places like shopping malls and also in schools and colleges of the city. Their job would be intervention when they spot something against a woman or a girl. It they find there is something wrong, they will directly intimate the police control room and the accused would be directly handed over to the police station concerned," Kumar added.
 
 However, unlike drama by the Anti-romeo Squads of Uttar Pradesh, senior officers of Jaipur police commissionerate have specifically asked their men to ensure these teams here should not indulge in all this. "We have constituted this team just to facilitate women and not to create any drama or extra hype on it," said a senior police officer.
 
 Jaipur police is also planning to connect this patrolling team with 1090 helpline number for woman. "Any girl or a woman who is continuously being troubled by a youth or men can directly call up the helpline number and remain anonymous if she so desires. In such cases if the woman or a girl do not want to come directly into the picture by lodging an FIR, we will arrest such youths for disturbing peace," the officer added. 
 
 
