MUMBAI: According to the   report, the many ills befalling Indian cricket had its roots in the state associations, especially at the junior level. Keen to eliminate favouritism at that level, the   ( ) last year had come up with a system wherein each player was identified with a number allotted to them rather than their name on the jersey.

 While it took a while to understand the new system then, this season's U-12 trials that took place last week "went more smoothly" according to former Test cricketer and MCA's director of coaching  , who was the pioneer of the idea.
 
 MCA had four selection venues in Mumbai, and those who made the cut were asked to report to MCA's BKC ground for the next round of selection. The 56 players then selected will be made to play matches amongst themselves following which a final 25 will be picked.
 
 The coaches and parents seem to be satisfied with the idea as no 'outside force' can interfere with the selection.
 
 Rizvi Springfield coach Raju Pathak told TOI on Monday that this move grants total transparency. "No parents can tell the selectors to keep an eye out on their child. The fact that the parents have to stand far away from where the selection is going on and that the selectors' mobile phones are taken away proves that the MCA is serious about curbing bias."
 
 The move also guarantees that parents don't feel cheated, that parents don't feel cheated, which is so often the case at the junior level.  , whose son was selected after the preliminary round but failed to make the final cut, said he was satisfied that his kid was given a fair chance. "I watched the entire process. My son participated in the first round in Thane and though they were many kids, each one was given a fair turn. The next round at BKC ground was even better organised. At the U-12 level it's very important to give a child a fair chance. After all, they shouldn't be disheartened knowing they weren't selected despite being better than some." Rizvi's  , who made the cut, said that only the player's performance mattered. "It was a little odd that they were calling us by our numbers, but that doesn't matter since we were given a fair chance," he said with a smile.
 
 While Al Barkaat coach Nafees Khan -whose team won the Giles Shield (U-14) last year -lauded the move, he told TOI that, for it to be totally successful, the MCA should ensure that the state coaches are not coaching school teams. A case in point is last year's U-12 coach  , who also coaches Swami Vivekanand school.
 
 "If the MCA really wants total transparency, they really should see that none of the state selectors or coaches are in charge of any school. It may create a bias going forward," he said.
 
