CHENNAI: DMK members posed a ‘serious life threat’ to the   assembly speaker on February 18, when the vote of confidence on chief minister   government was being adopted, assembly secretary A M P Jamaludeen has told the Madras high court.

 In a counter-affidavit filed in response to a PIL filed by DMK working president and leader of opposition M K   questioning the legality of the confidence vote and seeking its declaration as illegal, the assembly secretary also said there was no violation of rules either, as secret voting was not provided for in assembly rules or in the Constitution.
 
 Justifying the presence of nine senior police officers inside the House wearing watch and ward uniform, Jamaludeen said, “Since there was a serious life threat to the speaker from DMK members, the speaker convened a meeting with chief secretary, DGP and the commissioner of police. It was decided at the meeting that the leadership of senior police officials was required to effectively carry out the orders of the speaker to evict the adamant DMK members who were staging a dharna inside the House illegally, with the intention of not allowing the speaker to conduct the proceedings.”
 
 Rule 99 of   permits three methods — voice vote, or asking members to rise at their respective places or by division, the counter said. He said the speaker has powers to decide the method of voting.
 
 When the PIL was taken up for further hearing on Friday, Stalin’s senior counsel R Shanmugasundaram dubbed the counter-affidavit as a pack of lies and said he had enough evidence to prove the assembly secretary wrong on every point. He also complained that despite specific direction from the court asking the assembly secretary to submit the video clipping of the assembly events, he had not done so.
 
 The bench then asked counsel to furnish a copy of the video footage to Stalin as well, so that they could file their rebuttals, if any. 
 
 Another PIL-petitioner K Ravi, who too has sought declaration of the resolution as null and void, albeit on different grounds, pointed out that his PIL was not related to events that occurred on the floor of the House. It was about the manner in which the MLAs reached the assembly.
 
 In this regard, Ravi said firstly, the speaker had refused to accept the court notice. Secondly, the assembly secretary’s detailed counter had nothing to do with the PIL since it was not about the events unfolded inside the assembly. Thirdly, the chief minister had not chosen to file his counter-affidavit though he had been cited as third respondent in the PIL.
 
 To this, R Krishnamoorthy, senior counsel for CM Edappadi K Palaniswami, said he would peruse the affidavit and decide on whether or not to file a counter-affidavit or to argue the case. The bench said the petitioner could not compel the CM to file a counter or not.
 
 
