BENGALURU: On the defensive about the functioning of primary healthcare centres and government hospitals in the state, Karnataka health and  , in an interview to TOI on Tuesday, refused to hold the   in  's   accountable for the 20-year-old woman's tragic death. He said she had died before she was brought to the centre. Ex cerpts:
The incident in Tumakuru points to the appalling state of healthcare facilities in rural Karnataka.
 
 False news and sensationalism have become synonymous with the media. On Monday, when I was meeting one of the woman's relatives, a local news channel flashed that she was not taken to the PHC before her death. Instead, she was rushed to a private hospital where she died. It's not humanely possible for a minister to keep an eye on everything happening in some remote corner of the state.
 
 Why are government health set ups and emergency services in rural areas still in a nascent stage?
 
 My department and me are working tirelessly to improve the state of rural health in Karnataka. I don't understand why so much noise is being made against government set ups when the PHC in question does not have any role to play in the woman's death in Tumakuru. Is it because government hospitals are easy to blame. Nobody points a finger at private hospitals which don't even discharge a body until all bills are paid.
 
 Getting an ambulance during an emergency remains to be a challenge.
 
 We have been trying to streamline ambulance services in rural areas. At present, we have 711 ambulances plying under   and another 827 under the regular health scheme.Earlier, one ambulance covered a radius of 25 km to 35 km. The radius of ambulance area coverage has been brought down to 10 km. We have also set up well-equipped mobile clinics on ambulances to reach to patients in remote areas. The number of ambulances have certainly seen a rise across the state.
 
 Are primary health centres in rural areas adequately equipped with doctors and other facilities?
 
 I agree that we are still struggling with loopholes in rural health infrastructure. The PHCs lack adequate facilities, don't have doctors round the clock. Doctors are available only for a few hours. We are trying to improve the situation but we need time to do that. I request the media and people of Karnataka to cooperate.
 
