BENGALURU: When   along with his wife Umade vi visited   with their plan for a photoshoot, the latter initially refused to sit for them.

  The 85-year-old   brushed them off saying that he was `in the middle of a novel and did not want to be distracted'. “He budged only after I promised him that the shoot would be over fast“ recalls Mukunda. Of course, what finally converted   frown into a smile was when the couple revealed to him that it was his novel “Gruhabhanga“ that had played cupid. “We told him that it was his novel that brought us together“. Bhyrappa couldn't refuse after that. This and similar stories are what make up  , a slim volume of black and white portraits of 50 Kannada writers, all shot by Mukunda. Shivarama Karanth, Yashavantha Chittala, P Lankesh, Devanur Mahadeva, Prathibha Nandakumar and M K Indira are among the featured writers.
 
 The idea for the book, Mukunda says, was suggested by his friend, critic TP Ashoka. The intimate moments and anecdotes that he had, Ashoka felt, needed to be written down. About sticking to a black and white palette, Mukunda explains, “Surface prettiness of colour photography stops the viewer from getting intimate with the subject. Grey shades, on the other hand, get him to think and appreciate the portrait.“ Another interesting aspect is that he chose to shoot all the photos in natural light. “I did experiment with flash. But somehow I could not use it creatively. I see it as a rush of light thrown at the subject, and not as a value addition.“
 
 As a photographer, Mukunda falls in the category of camera men who prefer waiting, sometimes for hours, to get the perfect portrait of their subjects. “Generally, subjects pose for photographs, but that's not how I work,“ he says. Talking about UR Ananthamurthy's (URA) photo that's a part of the book, he says, “We'd landed at URA's place hours before lunch but I chose to wait for hours, long after lunch, to get the `magic moment'. I found him lost in his thoughts and that's when I shot his portrait.“ Another anecdote involves his meeting with G Venkatasubbaiah, once again with his wife.To break the ice, the couple offered the then 103-year-old lexicographer kodubale and carrot halwa that they had taken along with them. GV broke into an enchanted smile that Mukunda ended capturing in his camera for posterity .
 
 A book filled with more such poignant moments, Mukha Mudre in one sense, gives readers a sneak peek into the minds and persona of Karnataka's admired writers. The autographs of the writers at the bottom of their respective portraits is a nice touch. “I would get their autographs after every photoshoot. I then decided that I would superimpose the signatures at the bottom of their photos,“ Mukunda explains. The book also carries brief profiles of each writer, complete with their bibliography and honours and awards conferred on them.
 
 The book calls for readers to enjoy it with a sensitive eye. Or as filmmaker Girish Kasaravalli notes in his introduction, “Selfies, which lack visual dynamics and have utter disregard to lighting, are killing our taste for photography. Mukha Mudre offers us an opportunity to savour the beauty of portraits. I hope it helps us gain fresh insights on ways to click photographs.“
 
