PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The   Municipal Corporation (PCMC) will not   to the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) until its concerns are addressed. 

 The civic body’s standing committee decided on Wednesday to withhold the funds until PMPML chairman and managing director   visits the PCMC office and addresses their concerns. 
 
 Standing committee chairperson Savale said, “PCMC is a 40% shareholder in PMPML, but we have received complaints from civic officials, corporators and office-bearers that the transport body metes out stepmotherly treatment to Pimpri Chinchwad’s residents. We heard that PMPML officials are not serious about providing facilities to the PCMC area.”
 
 She also alleged that PMPML sends only junior officials to the standing committee meetings and general body meetings. “They are unable to answer any queries. This is unfair to the civic office-bearers and corporators attending the meetings,” Savale further said. 
 
 She added, “PMPML officials, and juniors at that, come to PCMC when they want money from us. They are not concerned about the problems of residents of Pimpri Chinchwad city. I have given directives to the civic administration to not release any funds to PMPML until Tukaram Mundhe comes to the PCMC office to address the concerns,” she further said. 
 
 Savale said, “This directive was given following a discussion on the proposal to pay PMPML an amount of Rs16.52 lakh. The money was to provide buses for municipal students to go on an educational tour to Science Park. PCMC owns (40% of) PMPML, while it has constructed   and has a stake in it. But PCMC still is asked to pay transportation charges to PMPML, and fees to the Science Park for the visits. This is unfair. The   are too high. The proposal has is pending and civic officials have been directed to give detailed information about the tour expenses at the next weekly meeting.”
 
 When contacted, Mundhe declined to comment. 
 
 Notably, amid corporators’ demands to de-merge PMPML, Mundhe had said that he was answerable only to PMPML board and not to anyone in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) or PCMC.
 
