The 2017-18 corporation budget seems to be an exercise in piggybacking on projects being implemented under centrally-sponsored schemes including that of the   ( ), the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and   (Amrut), the   and the   (GCDA). Though the budget includes several often repeated projects which the civic body has failed to implement over the years, it does not mention any new avenues for generating additional revenue.

 The budget presented by deputy mayor T J Vinod puts the budget outlay at Rs 854 crore and estimated expenditure at Rs 822 crore. It estimates a surplus of Rs 168 crore.
 
 One of the proposals in the budget is to turn MG Road into one of the most modernized roads in the state. However, the project would be implemented by the KMRL in coordination with Amrut and Smart City projects. Creating cycling paths and pedestrian routes, more zebra crossings in different parts of the city, smart card for travel, additional facilities for making the city more disabled-friendly, feeder services to Metro services, Ernakulam JettyMaharaja's College Ground Station walkway and water transportation were some of the major KMRL projects which figured in the budget.
 
 Terming the budget "realistic" mayor Soumini Jain said: "The budget is not a dream, it is about projects which are practical."
 
 For drinking water projects, the corporation has decided to fully depend on the Amrut scheme. Old KWA pipelines will be replaced with new ones under the scheme. A sum of Rs 60 crore has been allocated for the purpose.
 
 Mattancherry spice market development and preparation of tourism master plan would be the two prominent projects to be carried out under the Smart City scheme. ThammanamPulleppady Road, which is to be widened using the state government funds also finds a place in the civic body's budget. Construction of Goshree-Mamangalam Road which was mentioned in the GCDA's 2017-18 budget has also has found a place in the corporation's budget.
 
 The oft repeated projects include construction of modern bus shelters, revamp of junctions, collection of property tax from unaided educational institutions, re-laying of major roads in the city with bituminous macadam and bituminous concrete (BMBC), construction of a 40-feet road in Palluruthy, elevated walkway at Menaka and Jos junction, Rajiv Awas Yojana project at Mattancherry and Padanasarovaram project in 14 acres near  .
 
 Though projects like e-governance and waste-to-energy plant were mentioned in the budget, it has not been specified when the works on them will begin. The budget was also mum on the current status of the project to construct waste to energy plant in Brahmapuram.
 
 Terming the budget as “unrealistic“, the opposition demanded the ruling front to bring out a white paper on the civic body's revenue, assets and expenditure. While the deputy mayor claimed that tax revenue has been increasing over the years, opposition leaders alleged it has been declining.
 
 "The additional revenue suggested in the budget comes to just around Rs 60 crore while the cost of implementing new projects would come to around Rs 250 crore. How are they going to fill the gap," said opposition leader K J Antony.
 
 TIMES VIEW
 
 A budget is not just about revenue and expenditure, and the one presented by   deputy mayor T J Vinod conspicuously lacks vision. To begin with, little legwork has been done for preparing it. Moreover, corporation authorities could have held discussions with other agencies like GCDA and KMRL so that instead of overlap with the latter's projects they would have been complementary. Last but not least, there has been no real, thought-out effort to enhance revenue.
 
