It was an unusual sight for the regulars, for sure. But curiosity did prompt many others to get on to the 29C bus route, for, the sound of music from within was not something they were used to hearing from an MTC bus. What it was, was a music relay of sorts, organised as part of the Urur Olcott Kuppam Vizha. Imagine back-to-back concerts (that included Carnatic vocals, folk numbers, rap tracks, abhangs and bhajans) being played live, in full concert mode, in a moving bus. “We were brainstorming on how we wanted to break the shackles. It is not usual to sit in a bus and sing when people are getting in and alighting at regular intervals. It was crazy — people were peeping in to see what's going on, and the bystanders were taken aback to see so much noise from within a bus. This was just our way to bringing art to normal everyday living. Why should music be only in sabhas? This is just the beginning, and we will do this more often. When we talk of access, it should come from those who own it. We are usually too uptight and this is a good way to loosen up,” shares TM Krishna, who was also on board, performing.

 I got into the WCC bus stop. I saw a post on FB and decided to be part of this amazing movement. I think this should be done more often. It makes everyone around so happy
 —  , college student
 
 I was waiting at the bus stand, thinking, ‘Did I just miss the bus?’ I am from England, and I have seen several performances on the Metro and subways back home. 
 But nothing on a moving bus. I was wondering if it is normal to get into public transport, not expect any money, and perform just for fun
 —  , bystander, from England
 
 A rare initiative, indeed
 I think it is a great initiative and we need to conduct more such concerts. Carnatic concerts are mostly heard only at temples and sabhas. It is a feeling that I have never experienced before.
 —  , vocalist
 
 I had a great time 
 I got a call a day back and was told to play in the bus. I was very thrilled about another initiative of theirs, where kids had to sing at the station. This is very innovative and I have been travelling around because of the season, so this came as a good feeler and was a good time to chill with friends.
 —  , ghatam player
 
 The idea was to take it to the masses
 It was a little difficult to perform on a moving bus, considering the instrument has some space constraints. But I found a spot that worked. The experience was unique. The idea was to take it to the masses.
 —  , mridangam player
 
 I was curious about the idea
 I am from the US and have been coming to Chennai for the season for a long time now. When they told me I had to sing inside a bus, I thought it was a non-moving bus. I didn’t think I had to sing inside a moving bus. I was so surprised and was curious to see what this is about.
 —  , vocalist
 
 We wanted public to listen to us
 The difficult part was to coordinate which artist is going to hop on at which bus stop. When we went on the route, we got a clearer picture on which stops the bus halted. We were also ambitious to bring six or seven programs in one hour. The highlight was to bring the general public to listen to us. 
 —  , organiser
 
 An unmatched experience
 I had told that I was a soft singer and might not fit the bill, but then I wanted to know how it it goes. It was a little difficult, but I think everyone heard me. The experience was unmatched
 —  , vocalist
 
 
