THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The government will launch a special drive to mobilise land and infrastructural support to build homes for the destitute under its  .

 The decision to launch a special drive from October 2 was taken at a meeting chaired by chief minister   here on Thursday. 
 
 The meeting estimated that the government will have to build homes for approximately five lakh families. The government will mobilise support from companies, industrial organizations and individuals for the project.
 
 The chief minister said that the Confederation of Indian Industries (CII) has agreed to be part of the initiative as part of its corporate responsibility. It was decided in the meeting that a meeting of major industrialists and business groups in the state to seek their participation for the government’s initiative will be convened. It has also been decided to convene a meeting of cement companies for making available cement at a subsidised rate for the project.
 
 An expert committee chaired by chief secretary will make a detailed assessment of the requirements and the project cost in each district. 
 
 The area of individual homes in each housing complex has been limited to 500 square feet, and 20% of the space in each complex will be reserved for common facilities like anganwadi, crèche and day-care centres. 
 
 Till now, the government has been able to locate 123 acres in various districts for the project. The government will also explore the possibility of using unused land with various government departments for the project. The government has asked district collectors to identify such lands for the project. The government will also explore the possibility of taking back the land given on lease for plantations for the purpose. 
 
 The list of the beneficiaries is being prepared by Kudumbashree and this will be published by the local self-government bodies. 
 
 Once the final list is prepared, the beneficiaries will be informed. The list of beneficiaries have been classified as those who are homeless but have land, those who have neither home nor land and those who could not complete the   of homes despite receiving aid from the government. 
 
