Trichy: The national highway department has proposed to construct seven minor bridges and a underpass along the Chennai-Trichy Bypass at a cost of Rs 31 crore.

 While the bridges are aimed at providing seamless connectivity to the service roads on either side of the four-lane National Highway-45 on a particular stretch in Trichy, the vehicular underpass near Kondayampettai will connect Kallanai Road to Srirangam. Union minister of state (MoS) for road transport, highways and shipping Pon Radhakrishnan had made the announcement about the project on Tuesday 
 
 Proposed in the year 2002, the Chennai Trichy Bypass (NH-45) came up in 2009 as a four-way lane. While service roads were constructed on either sides, they remained disconnected to the highway on a 4km stretch from Senthaneerpuram to Sanjeevi Nagar. These points had become accident prone zones due to sudden entry of vehicles from the service roads into the main carriageway. The NHAI has proposed to construct bridges at seven such points. 
 
 “Seamless connectivity from the service road will prevent local vehicles from taking the main carriage way, thereby checking accidents to a significant extent,” said an NHAI official. 
 
 The NHAI will also construct an underpass at the Kondayampettai intersection towards Kallannai at a cost of Rs 19 crore. A large number of vehicles, including lorries, cross the highway at this point resulting in accidents.
 
 “Apart from connecting the city to Thanjavur, the Kallannai Road is used by several villages to come to the city,” said Ramanujam a regular user of the road. Following frequent accidents in the intersection, barricades were kept to control the vehicular speed on the highway. An underpass will ensure free movement of vehicles without disturbing the traffic on the four-lane highway, he said. 
 
 Member of the district road safety council M Sekaran said the minor bridges and the underpass, both long-pending demands, will significantly bring down accidents. He said that the council had approached the Madras high court seeking directions to the NHAI to construct the minor bridges. 
 
 “Now the NHAI has come forward to execute the work,” he said.
 
 
