MUMBAI: The suspect in the murders of a   from   and her daughter has been arrested. Deepika Sanghvi (29) and Hetavi Sanghvi (8) were killed in their flat allegedly by Deepika’s   Vinayak Appur (22) in the early hours on Thursday. The bodies were found on Saturday after neighbours complained of a stench.

 “Vinayak told us he killed Deepika using a kitchen knife as she was harassing him for money. The child became a victim as she woke up just as her mother was murdered,” said superintendent Mahesh Patil of  . Deepika and Vinayak were in a relationship for the past seven months and worked at the same call centre in Kandivli and had lost their jobs eight days before the murder.
 
 Deepika had separated from her husband Kartik about a year ago.
 
 Vinayak was caught on CCTV camera entering the Sonam Saraswati building in Golden Nest, Bhayander (east), around 10 pm last Wednesday and exiting with his face covered around 7 am the next day. 
 
 From the building, Vinayak went to Bhayander railway station, where he reached around 7.20 am, and took a train to Virar. From there he proceeded to Kelwe in Palghar, along with his mother, for a family function. He then returned to his home in Dahisar.
 
 Vinayak went about his life, meeting friends, as if nothing had transpired. But when news of the bodies being found reached him by Saturday evening, he fled to Goa by bus. “There he mortgaged his gold chain for Rs 10,000,” said investigating officer Abhijeet Tailor. On Sunday, he did sight-seeing in Goa and the day after returned to Dahisar, from where he took another bus for the temple town of Shirdi in Nashik. He returned to Dahisar on Tuesday; he was arrested as he alighted from a bus near Rustomjee Educational Complex, Dahisar (west).
 
 The blood-soaked shirt Vinayak had changed in Deepika’s flat has been recovered from his bag by the police. He also changed the shirt he was wearing when he exited the flat with one he had asked his mother to bring when he met her en route Palghar.
 
 
