CHANDIGARH: Punjab government’s decision to   ban along highways will come as a blessing in disguise for at least seven cities where bypassed arteries have been denotified as the city roads and will now have footpaths, cycle tracks and other features for smooth movement of slow moving traffic. Till now, the state government insisted on these stretches being considered highways so that the upkeep and maintenance is carried out with central funding through   (NHAI).

 The real reason for the decision is, however, to ensure that vends continue to run along these stretches after the apex court ruling against sale of liquor within 500 metres radius of national and state highways. Punjab’s traffic adviser Navdeep Asija said that the move is in line with argument that internal roads should be kept for urban traffic and not for heavy   crossing the city, and will give priority to public transport, safe pedestrian crossing and cycling. “The fact that the stretch passing through the heart of Rajpura was not considered a city road gave the local body an alibi not to take effective steps for making movement of pedestrians and cyclists better. Such a decision was long pending,” said Raman Bhalla, a retired chief engineer from Rajpura.
 
 The cities that will now have “urban roads” instead of “highways” include Hoshiarpur, Balachaur, Moga, Rajpura, Sirhind and Pathankot. Some of the stretches like the one passing through Balachaur were infamous for frequent traffic accidents due to dark spots and heavy vehicles posed a threat for local commuters. However, once designated as urban streets, the stretches will have to provide ideal environment for slow moving traffic as well, besides facilities like parking and public transport interchanges for local commuters. There are five more bypasses that are already in the pipeline and it will give respite to people of these cities, including Nawanshahr, Kurali and Samrala.
 
 Change of heart
 
 Last year, a proposal not to treat Ferozepur-Road Ludhiana as national highway and therefore drop the plan to construct an elevated road was opposed tooth and nail by various government bodies, including MC Ludhiana and public works department. The suggestion to treat bypass and notify it as highway and keep out heavy bypass traffic from crossing the city was eventually dropped.
 
 
