NEW DELHI:  , India's only individual Olympic gold medalist and part of the PM-appointed  , has submitted a suggestion to Sports Minister   in regards to a helpline for the wellbeing of India's athletes, particularly when outside of the country participating in global events. 

 The decorated Indian shooter's submission to Goel comes two days after he helped highlight on Twitter the plight of Indian para-swimmer  , who was reportedly left to fend for herself without enough finance in Berlin where she was participating in the Para Swimming Championships. According to reports, Kanchanmala was forced to borrow money from a friend and reportedly fined for travelling without a ticket in public transports, after claiming she had not been provided enough funds from the Paralympic Committee of India (PCI).
 
 
 
 
 In his letter dated July 14, Bindra writes: "The recent incident of our Paralympic athlete in Berlin raises a larger question of athlete management. Things like these continue to happen in Indian sport and leaves everybody in a bad taste and overshadows a lot of good work that is done. In this regard I have a suggestion.
 
 The creation of a helpline for all athletes especially when in a foreign country to solve matters of extreme concern and having a contingency fund for unforeseen situations to provide just in time support to athletes would be a fantastic initiative to be taken up by the Sports Ministry."
 
  
  
 Following news of Kanchanmala's incident in Berlin, Goel subsequently requested the PCI to submit a report within ten days, saying in a statement on Thursday: "The Ministry through SAI released Rs 3.21 Lakhs as 75 percent of dues as advance payment to Para Olympic Committee of India (PCI) in time and arranged tickets etc. This amount was transferred in the account of PCI on 22nd June, 2017. Since the amount was transferred to the account of PCI, the players should not have been put to any hardship."
 
 The PCI, on its part, claimed that the sanctioned amount could not be distributed due to the non-availability of court-appointed committee chairman.
 
 With a sportsperson of Bindra's pedigree, it will be very interesting to see how the Sports Ministry responds. 
 
 The 34-year-old retired from competitive shooting after last year's Rio Olympics, where he reached his third final and came within 0.1 of winning a second medal at the pinnacle of world sport. Post-retirement, he was appointed to the PM's Olympic Task Force on the preparations for the next three Olympic Games. In March, Bindra bagged the Shooter of the Year Award at the Mahindra Scorpio Times of India Awards (TOISA) in Mumbai.
 
 
 
 
