PUNE: The Reserve Bank of India has cancelled the licence of the Pimple Nilakh-based Shri  . 

 The licence stands cancelled from end of business hours on Tuesday. The   had already placed the bank “under directions” in September 2014.
 
 “Its operations were being carried out in a manner detrimental to the interest of present and future depositors, and that of the public. Public interest would be affected adversely if the bank were allowed to carry on banking business, any further,” the RBI said in a statement.
 
 When a bank is placed under directions, it is barred from accepting fresh deposits or allowing withdrawals above a specified sum. It can, however, continue to recover loan from its clients.
 
 In practice, it has been observed that when banks are placed under directions, many borrowers simply stop turning in their instalments, pushing the bank further into the abyss. However, a few banks have recovered after being placed under directions and the RBI has allowed them to engage in normal banking business.
 
 In the last year, the RBI imposed fresh directions or extended existing ones on over 25 urban cooperative banks in Maharashtra alone. Of the 1,566 cooperative banks in the country, 506 are located in the state.
 
 In its ruling on Wednesday, the RBI also requested the Registrar of Cooperative Societies, Maharashtra, to issue an order for the winding up of Shri Chhatrapati Urban Cooperative Bank, and appoint a liquidator.
 
 On liquidation, each depositor is entitled to repayment of deposits up to Rs1 lakh from the Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation (DICGC).
 
 “The liquidator collects the details of depositors and sends it to the DICGC,” said a senior officer of another cooperative bank. 
 
 He said the problem with many of these banks is a paucity of computerized records of depositors and borrowers, and the opaque manner in which business is conducted. Shri Chhatrapati   does not even have a website.
 
 Time and again, the RBI expressed concerns about certain cooperative banks fronting for local politicians, and has demanded more powers to control such banks. The RBI licenses cooperative banks, but does not fully control their functioning. The banks fall under the ambit of the state cooperatives department. 
 
 Cooperation commissioner Chandrakant Dalvi said they will appoint a liquidator once the receives the notice from the RBI. The liquidator will be an officer of the department. 
 
 “After liquidator takes over, he will carry out an audit and get all records together. A detailed report is then sent to the DICGC. Since it is a complicated report, it takes about two months,” he said.
 
 The DICGC then releases the money within a month of receiving the audited list of depositors.
 
 However, there have been cases where this process dragged on for more than a decade. 
 
