Nagpur: Half the city will have to go without water on Wednesday as Nagpur Municipal Corporation's (NMC) water operator OCW will replace old and deteriorated pipelines. This will affect supply in areas coming under Lakadganj, Asi Nagar, Satranjipura, Nehru Nagar and Dhantoli zones for almost 30 hours from 10 am on October 4 to 4 pm on October 5. As per NMC data, OCW bills for only 300MLD (million litres per day) while the supply stands at 715MLD, resulting in direct loss of 415MLD potable water. Most of this is lost to leakages or theft. TOI has reported on this wastage a number of times.  “The move will be taken to stop waste of water through old pipelines, NMC and OCW have planned interconnection work of 900mm x 900mm pipeline on Kanhan Water Treatment Plant (1300/900mm dia) main supply Feeder line near Shanti Nagar nullah on October 4,” said an OCW spokesperson.  During this period, Kanhan plant will remain closed and areas being fed from it will not get supply. After this work, newly laid 900mm line on nullah crossing will be charged and it old pipeline shut down saving water. Along with this, some other leak repair work on Kanhan feeder main line at Pili river, Kamptee Road and on Kanhan 700mm diameter feeder main near Shantinagar nullah will also be executed in the same period. Water supply through tankers will also not be possible during the period as overhead tanks in these areas will remain dry. OCW has requested people from these areas to store sufficient water for use.  According to a press release, overhead tanks to be affected include Lakadganj zone: Bhandewadi, Deshpande Layout ( Bharatwada), Lakadganj, Minimata Nagar, Subhan Nagar, Kalamna and Pardi I , II. Ashi Nagar zone: Binaki (Mahendra Nagar), Binaki I, II, Gamdoor DT, Akashwani DT, Jaswant Mall DT and Itabhatti Chowk DT. Satranjipura zone: Shanti Nagar, Wanjari, Bastarwadi, 10 No Puliya DT and Indora Square DT. Nehru Nagar zone: Nandanvan OLD, I & II ESR; Sakkardara I, II, III, Tajbagh, Kharabi DT and Bhande Plot DT. Dhantoli zone: Old Nandanwan, Shivnagar, Mahavir Nagar, Ganesh Nagar, Nehru Nagar, Sudampuri, Some parts of Om Nagar, Bhande Plot, Bapu Nagar, Gurudev Nagar, Ishwar Nagar, Mire Layout and Kabir Nagar.