PUNE: There won't be a long wait for parents running helter-skelter for domicile, caste, income and non-creamy layer certificates. They will be given in a fortnight after the documents for these certificates are verified.

 The district administration has decided to increase its staff strength at the citizen facilitation centre (CFC) in April and May to avoid a rush in June for securing these important certificates.
 
 There has been a heap of complaints from citizens about delays in issuing these certificates. The district administration has decided to step up these services and has issued orders to deploy more staff at the CFC at the   godown and the CFCs in all the 13 talukas in the district to issue these certificates to the students.
 
 Applications for the certi ficates which are important documents for admission to educational institutes as well as for government jobs, should not be made in June which increases chaos at these CFCs.
 
 “We want citizens to use the summer months to apply for all their documents,“ resident deputy collector   said. Besides, the CFCs applications for the certificates can also be filed at the Maha e-seva kendras in the district, he added.
 
 Four additional deputy collectors with eight sub-divisional officers as well as land acquisition officers of the rank of deputy collectors will be part of this special initiative to speed up the issuing of documents. These officials are the final authority to clear the documents after verification.
 
 Last year, according to the department there were nearly 2.6 lakh applications in the district which were filed online while 7.42 lakh documents were collected manually .  , in charge of the state citizen facilitation centre operations, said at present the services comes under the Right to Service Act and if there is any discrepancy or delay in issuing the certificates, action can be taken against the officer concerned.
 
 Last year, the state issued 69 lakh documents and the aim is to improve the services this year by introducing the Hardware Security Module (HSM) which will enable digital signatures on large number of documents at a time that has been cleared which will increase the speed of services.
 
 However, the ground reality is that due to the delay citizens are forced to approach touts for these services.
 
  told   that they would initiate strict action against touts. “There is no need to go to touts. There are boards put up outside the CFC centres at the godown,“ he said.
 
