VISAKHAPATNAM: Summer has arrived and so has the season of sun strokes and other ailments like fever and  . However, it’s   that claims maximum number of lives every year in the state.

 As per official records, 1,800-2,000 people die on an average every year in the state due to heat waves and sunstroke. This year too, there’s prediction of a very hot summer. Given the situation, doctors call for setting up ‘summer emergency mobile vans’ at all major junctions in the city, equipped with the necessary medication and first aid, which can minimise deaths due to heatstroke.
 
 Physician Dr   said, “If a few timely precautions are taken and the government makes certain rules, thousands of lives can be saved in summer. Most importantly, depending on the size of cities and number of major junctions, summer emergency mobile vans can be stationed at all important junctions. For a city like Vizag, 12-15 vans would be required. The vans should be equipped with IV fluids, oxygen cylinders, cool water, first aid and a trained medical attendant. Toll free numbers can be provided by the government to call the vehicles to reach to the victim at the earliest and immediately treatment can commence. If the treatment gets delayed by a few hours, the victim may collapse and die.”
 
 “Besides, the labour department can change the working hours for labourers and outdoor workers during the severe summer months. Working hours can be scheduled before 10.30 am and after 4.30 pm to avoid the hottest sun between 11 am and 4 pm. For making the summer tolerable in future, the government shouldn’t give permission or license for buildings educational institutes, offices or any building unless they have adequate space for plantation and greenery. Pamphlets should be distributed about the dos and don’ts in summer and announcements made through radio and television advertisements,” added Dr Rao.
 
 On the personal level, public too should take certain precautions to avoid sunstroke. Doctors advise to always carry homemade ORS bottles by mixing a pinch of salt and a handful of sugar to boiled or clean drinking water at normal temperature, whenever they go out. Besides, people should also drink around three litres of water daily to keep themselves hydrated along with buttermilk, tender coconut water, fruit juice and so on. Using caps, sunglasses and umbrellas is also a must outdoors.
 
 The usual symptoms of sunstroke include fatigue and feeling of getting fainted, nausea, headache, cramps, breathlessness, thirst and inability to pass urine. The body temperature is often very high, around 104-105 degree Celsius.
 
