LUCKNOW: The city is in the grip of mosquito menace but the sanitary situation continues to be in a shambles despite technical advisory committee’s strict instructions to fix   disposal system for prevention of vector-borne diseases.

 The committee was formed by order of the high court after   epidemic hit the city last year. As per guidelines of the committee, both phases of solid waste management—door-to-door collection and operation of STP—should be put in place so that further outbreaks are averted. Door-to-door collection of garbage is being carried out in only two zones out of eight, covering only 50% of the area in both wards. Out of total 1,300 metric tonnes of garbage generated on daily basis just 200 metric tonnes is being sent to the plant for processing. Areas in the two zones (5 and 8) where door-to-door is in place are Telibagh, PGI, Aashiana, Kanpur Road, LDA Colony, Alambagh, Krishnanagar and a few others,
 
 A reality check by TOI found that in almost all areas of the city, including Jankipuram, Raheemnagar, Chowk, Aliganj, Indiranagar, Mahanagar, Niralanagar, Khurramnagar, Gomtinagar and in most of Old City, garbage poses a big menace for residents and people are highly disappointed with the authorities as the situation has been same for the past several years.
 
 Rashmi Tripathi, a resident of Khadra said last year, half a dozen people suffered from dengue fever in her locality because the sanitary condition in the area is the worst. “People dispose of domestic waste on streets as they have no other option and every few meters there is a pile of garbage on the roads while dumping grounds are filled beyond capacity with trash, which is cleaned hardly once a month. Despite such an outbreak last year, the situation is no different this year.”
 
 Thakurganj resident Shreya Sharma said, “Piles of garbage and rotten trash are scattered on the roadside while dozens of stray cattle stroll around and there is a huge dumping ground on the road approaching TB hospital in Thakurganj. The place is rarely cleaned and an eyesore, while it is a source of germs and   that cause several diseases.”
 
 Sector B, Jankipuram resident Nidhi Mishra complained, “There is neither door-to-door collection of garbage in my area nor routine cleaning on the streets and market places. The situation is so bad residents have to employ sanitary workers at their own expenses if they wish for clean surroundings.” 
 
 While residents are reeling under pathetic sanitary condition in every area of the city, officials of the agency responsible to manage garbage disposal in the city said it might take three more months to cover the entire city under both phases of garbage management.
 
 “Door-to-door garbage collection has started already in Zones 5 and 8 but at a slow pace because we haven’t still got all the equipment and though the plant is properly stabilized, door-to-door collection needs to be fixed,” said Rakesh Agarwal, managing director of Ecogreens.
 
 Photo Quotes
 
 There is an open dumping spot in front of my house that provides breeding ground to mosquitoes. As a result, right after sunset the entire area, especially parks and market place nearby is filled with mosquitoes.
 
 Anil Chandel | Jankipuram 
 
 In my memory from past several years the municipal sanitary workers have not visited once. Most of the times we hire rag pickers and ask them to sweep the streets.
 
 Sanjay | Chowk 
 
 Garbage is major source of mosquitoes but piles of trash rot and provide breeding ground for the insects and germs
 
 Devanshi Goel | Vikasnagar 
 
 Everywhere in the city, one can see garbage on the streets, markets and everywhere else. We have to hire private workers for cleaning
 
 Alisha Rastogi | Keshavnagar 
 
