KOLKATA: India is a   and its strength rests in cooperative federalism, especially in matters relating to  , President   said while inaugurating the Bengal   Summit in Kolkata on Friday .

 “There is no contradiction between development of a constituent state and development of a whole,“ the President said, drawing attention to the absence of Union finance minister Arun Jaitley and his collea gues from the summit.
 
 The absence of the central ministers was all the more conspicuous when compared to their participation last year -Arun Jaitley, Nitin Gadkari, Piyush Goyal and Suresh Prabhu had all attended the summit.The ties between   and PM Narendra Modi hadn't gone this downhill then. In the 2016 summit, the Centre had committed Rs 37,482 crore for National Highways and another Rs 9,566.74 crore to rev up the state's inland waterways. The President had a pat for the CM on Friday .
 
 “As a former (Union) fi nance minister, I am aware how debt-stressed the state was. It had a legacy baggage.They have revived it. There is a revenue buoyancy . There is an appropriate investment climate. The economy of the state suffered on account of the Partition of India. However, there has been significant progress in last six years.Growth in State GDP has been impressive. But significantly , the state has also struck a fine balance between growth and the lower end of the social ladder,“ Mukherjee said.
 
 He added that the largescale participation in the fo scale participation in the forum, with representatives from 29 countries, shows the level of interest in Bengal amongst investors. He complemented the state for its focus on infrastructure and adoption of investment-friendly policies. He cited skilled manpower and a stable political regime as the key drivers for the good response from investors.
 
 Citing an example of the chief minister's project to provide free bicycles to school-goers statewide, he said this could revive the “golden days“ of Bengal being a leading bicycle manufacturer in the country .
 
 Urging the participants to invest in her state, Mamata said, “The economy of Bengal has moved up from $67 billion to $140 billion within five ye ars. Our tax revenues have doubled in four years, which is a record in India. Our capital expenditure has grown more than seven-fold in the short period. Our growth in the industrial sector has been 10.59% compared to the national average of 7.3% in 2015-16.In the service sector, we grew one-and-a-half-times faster than the national average and in agricultural sector five times the national average.“
 
 Taking a dig at Prime Minister Modi, who inaugurated the Vibrant Gujarat summit on January 10, Mamata said, “You will be happy to know that in social sectors, too, we are doing very good work. When we came to power, the state's infant mortality rate was 32%. Within five years, this has come down to 26%. Even in Gujarat the infant mortality rate is 33% while the national average is 37%“
 
