KOLKATA: Sonia Mehrotra. Farzana Islam. Dhiman Dutta. Ranjita Sau. Bikas Mali. Sanjeev Viswakarma. Six persons who had no connection to one another were brought together by a   that turned their worlds upside down a year back. They are all   of those who died in the   on March 31, 2016, and the state has provided them with jobs at the same office, same department and on the same floor. Some of them even share a room. 

 They got their appointments to the disaster management department on S N Banerjee Road last month.
 
 The story of the coming together of these six individuals is heart-wrenching. Simultaneously, the support structure that this coming together builds for them is full of hope. “This could be nature’s way to provide us with an opportunity to find closure,” said Farzana, wife of Ola driver Shahabuddin who was crushed under the flyover. “In the process of putting our lives together, we have come to rely on each other more than ever,” she added. Farzana is currently the only earning member of the joint family. 
 
 “This is pain that we cannot describe,” said Sonia. Her husband Sanjay had told her that he would make all arrangements for a puja at home over the weekend before he returned in the evening. Fifteen minutes later, the news of his death arrived. 
 
 “It was horrible when I would be at home thinking about the cruelty of fate. I would constantly think why this happened to me and my daughter. But being with these people makes me realise I am not the only one. Everybody is fighting a battle. Of course, this does not decrease the sense of betrayal and unfairness, but it definitely prevents me from breaking down,” said Sonia, who would often break into tears even after joining work. But now she has five people to extend moral support. 
 
 The six of them sit in a small room on the third floor and go about their work normally. For an outsider, it is almost impossible to see the festering wounds within.
 
 His father’s death forced Sanjeev to quit his studies in Jaunpur and come to Kolkata. “I don’t know anybody else here. They are my family now,” the 22-year-old said. 
 
 Bikas, whose father was out distributing his wedding invitation cards to friends and relatives, has decided to fulfil his father’s last wish. He will be tying the knot with the same girl in May. “But it will not be like before. Ever.”
 
 “It is not only the incident and its aftermath that binds us. It is the bond that we have developed in the past months that acts as glue. We normally eat together or take tea breaks together,” said Dhiman, the youngest of the group.
 
 
