GURGAON: Thirty percent of the infants who visited government hospitals in Gurgaon in the past two and a half months, were found to be suffering from micro-nutrient or dietary deficiencies.

 The anomaly came to the fore after district health authorities, as part of their programmes to improve health of pregnant mothers and newborns, began keeping records of such patients visiting government hospitals, mid-February onwards. 
 
 As per data complied till date, around 2,360 of the total 7,900 infants brought to government hospitals for check-up suffered from some dietary deficiency or the other, including deficiency of vitamins and minerals like iron, iodine, zinc and vitamins A and B. These deficiencies make the child crave for more food; and while hunger among infants may appear as a healthy sign, it is on the contrary a result of low absorption of vital nutrients in the body.
 
 This concerning trend, in turn, indicates lack of proper nutrition among nursing mothers.
 
 District administration began a slew of programmes at the start of the year to improve the health and well being of pregnant women and infants, which included special training for ASHA and aanganwadi workers to take good care of their patients, and weekly audio messages under ‘Kilkari’ on expecting and new mothers’ phones, to guide them through pregnancy, diet and nutrition, childbirth, taking care of infant and family planning post delivery.
 
 “On an average, I get around 20 to 25 infants everyday, who suffer from micro-nutrient deficiencies. The number could be more as most patients display other ailments like pneumonia and diarrhoea due to low immunity, whose underlying cause is micro-nutrient deficiency,” Dr Radhesh Pathak, senior medical officer, Gurgaon, told  . “Micro-nutrients are vitamins and minerals which are required in very small quantities, but are important for physical and mental growth of the child.”
 
 Deficiencies in the infant indicate weak health of the mother. In urban families, for instance, most are working mothers who end up ignoring their diet. In some cases, new mothers, in the haste to lose post-pregnancy weight, skip important nutrients from their diet. This has a direct, adverse effect on the child.
 
 Dr  , neonatologist, Vedanta Child Clinic, Gurgaon, said,“Around 60-70% of mothers who visit me are aware of essential micro-nutrients needed by the body, like iron and calcium. Despite that, they are unable to provide the same to their babies. Nursing mothers need to take special care to include nutrient dense food in their diet. They must consume pulses, grains, vegetables, fruits, and dairy products 4-5 times a day to ensure the infant gets all essential micro-nutrients for overall growth and development.”
 
 As many as 900 infant and 42 maternal deaths were registered in Gurgaon in 2016.
 
