FIROZABAD/AGRA: Just before the   for the   began, 90 people in Firozabad bought farmers’ land and then sold it to the government at  

  The Firozabad district magistrate said she had prepared a report on this and sent it to the government for further action. As many as 27 persons, including five revenue department officials and 22 villagers of Firozabad, were recently booked for showing farm land as residential and pocketing higher compensation during acquisition of the plots for the expressway.
 
  In Firozabad, around 410 hectares of land was acquired in 32 villages and compensation to the tune of Rs 330 crore was given to 2,027 farmers.
 
  Firozabad district magistrate Neha Sharma said, “During the investigation of all the 2,027 sale deeds registered in the district, we found that in 90 cases, beneficiaries were not famers. These people have bought farm lands at cheaper rates from farmers and then sold it to the government at higher prices during land acquisition. Such deals hint towards exploitation of farmers at the hands of middlemen who played an active role in transferring farm lands to private parties. We have sent a detailed report to the government for further action.”She said the Uttar Pradesh Expressways Industrial Development Authority had not allotted any acquired land to any party though.
 
  Barely four months after it was thrown open to the public, former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Akhilesh Yadav’s ambitious Lucknow-Agra Expressway project had come under the scanner of the Yogi Adityanath government. The expressway is being scrutinised for an alleged scam, involving farm land being passed as land for residential purposes to get higher compensation.
 
  The state government has directed 10 district magistrates -- of Lucknow, Unnao, Kanpur Dehat, Mainpuri, Etawah, Auraiya, Hardoi, Kannuaj, Firozabad and Agra - to probe all the 20,500 land deals done in around 230 villages during the past 18 months.
 
  It has hired public sector company RITES to conduct a technical survey of the expressway within a month.
  The move comes after a special field officer of Uttar Pradesh Expressways Industrial Development Authority (UPEIDA), YN Lal, filed an FIR in Firozabad against five 'chakbandi' (land consolidation) officers and 22 land owners accusing them of showing agriculture land in   as land for residential purposes.
 
  Around 3,500 hectare of land was purchased from 20,456 farmers in 10 districts of 232 villages for this project.
  UPEIDA chief executive officer Awanish Awasthi had said that he has sent letters to the district magistrates concerned on April 19. The idea is to ensure that genuine farmers are not affected, he added.
 
  The previous Samajwadi Party government had claimed that the 302-km long expressway was constructed in record time and then chief minister Akhilesh Yadav often peppered his election speeches with the mention of his "dream project".
  The present government claims that around Rs 670 crore allotted for the project is lying unused in its accounts.
 
  Around Rs 200 crore of this amount is with the district magistrates and the rest were with the UPEIDA, despite around 99.5 per cent of land for the project have already been purchased.
 
  The district magistrates have been asked to return   with them, while the amount with UPEIDA has been reversed, officials said.
  The expressway, which cost Rs 15,000 crore, passes through Etawah, Firozabad, Mainpuri, Unnao, Kanpur, Kannauj, Auraiya and Hardoi. It has an air strip near Unnao, where fighter planes can land, making it unique.
