KOLKATA: For six days from   to Dashami, Mohammad Sirajuddin’s address changes from   to   across the road. The 59-year-old chief adviser of Akal Bodhan stands outside the Durga Puja pandal, issuing instructions to volunteers so that every visitor gets an opportunity to see the idol. 

  Murad Abdullah meticulously prepares the list of people in his housing society to whom he will have to deliver bhog during Durga Puja. As a member of the sub-committee responsible for the preparation and distribution of bhog, Abdullah tries not to miss anybody out.
 
 Participation of Muslims in Durga Puja in   is not a new phenomenon. But the Muslims who are participating in this year’s festivities admit that Durga Puja 2017 feels a little different; the issue of clashing immersion and Muharram routes, in which even the Calcutta high court has had to intervene, has put them firmly under the spotlight. “We now feel it is our duty, our responsibility to preserve Bengal’s cultural ethos,” Shahabuddin Khan of 78 Palli Sarbojanin Durgotsab Committee said.
 
 Khan leads the foot soldiers of this Puja, which is organised by the   Friends’ Club. The 30-year-old member of the core committee is responsible, along with his friends, for the timely construction of the pandal at Gopalnagar crossing, the fittings inside and devising a traffic flow plan.
 
 So, from two weeks before the festival, Khan takes a break from his business and dedicates all his time to Bengal’s festival number one. “I was born and brought up in this neighbourhood and I have experienced Durga Puja since my childhood. The so-called religious divide has never occurred to me or my family. Not only Durga Puja, we celebrate Eid, Bakrid and Kali Puja together,” he said.
 
 Serazul Karim was the unanimous choice for the post of Mominpore Sporting Club Durgotsab secretary six years ago. “I have been part of this Puja for the past 22 years since I started living in Mominpore. For me it is the celebration of Bengali culture. It represents the unity and brotherhood among the state’s citizens,” the businessman said. “The Puja is sarbojanin, not for one section.”
 
 At Murli Dhar Sen Lane near BJP’s state office, Sirajuddin has been an integral part of Akal Bodhan Durgotsav Committee for the past 25 years. “It all started with a group of friends who organized the Puja. I was one of them. We have stuck to each other and every decision regarding the preparations of the Puja is taken after consulting each other. We eat and celebrate together,” said Sirajuddin.
 
 Several political leaders in the Muslim community are also at the helm of several pujas. Firhad Hakim’s Chetla Agrani is the most prominent example. Ward 39 Trinamool councillor Mohammad Jasimuddin and ward 54 party councillor Mohammad Amiruddin head the pujas in their wards. For politicians, Durga Puja is a big occasion to mobilise their workers and engage with voters. “My ward is mini-India where people from various states reside. There are more than 10 pujas in my ward and I am associated with almost all of them in different capacities,” said Jasimuddin. 
 
