MUMBAI: A 34-year-old   to evict occupants of a sprawling shop in Indian Mercantile Mansion, at  , was won by the owner of the building   in the Bombay high court recently. Justice Rajesh Ketkar dismissed petitions filed by legal heirs of the Sevakram family, the original tenants, and Uttar Pradesh Handloom Corporation (UPHC), to whom the over 1,700 sq ft premises, were sublet. In a separate petition, Justice Ketkar directed UPHC to pay damages of Rs 1 lakh pm from December 2015 if it wanted the eviction order stayed, so it could challenge it. The insurance firm was permitted to withdraw the money deposited by UPHC, of Rs 10,000 pm, from 1998. 

 “The   is at the junction of Wodehouse and Madam Cama Road, opp Regal Cinema,” pointed out the judge, adding, “Applying principles laid down (by the Supreme Court) as also having regard to the nature, size and standard of accommodation, location and use for commercial purposes and fair market rent which the insurer would have realized if the premises were let out to a private person, damages assessed at Rs. 1 lakh pm will be reasonable.”
 
 The building was owned by Indian Mercantile Insurance Co, which was after nationalisation taken over by General India Insurance Co. Oriental is a subsidiary of GIC and is the building owner. The Sevakrams had come in as tenants in 1952 and UPHC was reportedly sublet the premises in 1977. In 1983, Oriental terminated the tenancy and sought return of the premises under the Public Premises Act. A decade later, the estate officer held that the Sevakrams and UPHC were unauthorised occupants and ordered their eviction. They filed petitions in the HC, contending that the Sevakrams were inducted as tenants in 1952, years before the cut-off point of 1958 under the PP Act. The law therefore would not apply in their case. The HC rejected their contention. 
 
 “Once the premises become public, the public authority can resort to provisions of the law for eviction of any unauthorized occupant,” said Justice Ketkar. “Merely because the occupant is inducted as a   prior to 1958, or prior to the building being taken over by the entities specified (in the PP Act), it does not cease to be public premises,” added the judge. The court said that if an undertaking is filed by the Sevakrams and UPHC that among other things they will not create third-party rights, the interim orders protecting them were extended by eight weeks to allow them to appeal.
 
