KOLKATA: The CID investigations into the   that was duping bank customers has thrown up shocking details. According to sources, the details of clients to whom these gang members ended up making repeated calls were released to the accused by an agency working on behalf of two top nationalised banks. 

 CID sleuths said the database was shared for a huge sum of money and was being “constantly upgraded” on a weekly basis. The total amount gained by the gang is expected to cross Rs 1 crore, said one of the complainants,   Hela.
 
 The probe has also established that the clients were all above 55 years and had been newbies in internet banking. “The young   members were picked up after careful scrutiny — experience of working in similar shady establishments across Jamtara and   was seen as an advantage — and they were put under training for two weeks to speak fluent English, Hindi and Bengali.
 
 CID sources said they have now identified the main accused who is believed to have 11 such franchises across three states. “We are hopeful of making huge monetary recoveries. Several state police have already contacted us and we are confident of solving at least a dozen cases pertaining to Kolkata and its adjoining areas,” said an investigating officer.
 
 The shady businesses now running from this state include linking Aadhaar with ATMs, claiming that cards have been blocked due to non-payment, bogus cheque deposits, swindling customers by offering non-existent loans and extorting money from bank-loan defaulters. “The fact that the office initially started as an internet café and then switched over to a full-fledged BPO made its detection difficult. The youngsters were chosen so that they could pretend to be teenagers visiting a café for routine internet access,” said sources.
 
 Reportedly, most of the youths were either jobless or offered huge monetary baits. In certain cases, the accused were kept in the dark about the real motive of their calls. “Most of the accused are between 18 and 24 years. The SIM cards were furnished by submitting fake ID proofs in Bihar and UP. One Dhananjay   of Gouripur in Deogarh is believed to be heading this gang in Bengal,” said an officer.
 
 
