Chennai: Dutch company Philips, which was synonymous with lighting and entertainment systems has begun to increase focus on developing the company as a healthcare player. Abhijit Bhattacharya, global CFO, Royal Philips, talks to TOI on the plans to increase the company’s hold in the healthcare segment. Excerpts:

 Could you explain the shift to healthcare?
 
 There is an evident shift in the direction of the company. It is going to be a complete healthtech company. And there are B2C and B2B ascpects to it. We are currently investing big in the personal health space, preventive healthcare and diagnosis and home and hospital care space. We are investing 1.7 billion in R&D, at our centre in Bengaluru to develop products like mobile x-rays. Our Bengaluru centre plays a key role in this and the headcount is growing by 20%.
 
 How are you planning to expand your portfolio in the three categories you mentioned?
 
 We are tying up with local players in the countries where we have operation inrder to develop local products, utilising local talent. We further using these products globally. Through these acquisition, we would look to develop local products that take care of healthy eating. We are also tying up with ‘Cath labs’ to develop stents. We will try to get all inclusive products to the table, so healthcare is affordable. Currently, personal health space contributes to 41% of the total business.
 
 What would be the focus points for India in 2017 in the healthtech space?
 
 India is one of our important markets. It ranks 7th among the 100 countries we operate in. The home healthcare services, which were launched over 6 months ago, is specialising on cardio pulmonary care. Depending on how the initiative takes shape, we will take it to other countries in the next 18 months. We are tying up with hospitals to refer their cases to us. The other would be forging partnerships with government & private hospitals for us to introduce our products such as mobile x-rays etc.
 
 Have you planned any investment on the upcoming health-tech startups?
 
 The company has a venturing arm, that invests in healthtech startups across the globe, holding minority stakes since Jan 2016. While no Indian startup has been funded so far, we will announce an investment in Indian startups this year.
 
 While the focus is shifting towards healthcare, how would the company focus on the other wings like lighting, entertainment devices etc?
 
 The lighting business, one of our earlier ventures has already gone for an IPO last year and we sold our semiconductor business too. Now that these wings of the businesses are doing well, we will sell their stake if need be and focus solely on health-tech.
 
 
