MUMBAI: A  , while affording a chance for  , has allowed the release of a 19-year-old man,   and   for a daring  . Mohammed Khan, who could have been sentenced to seven years in jail, had held two men on their way to work at Govandi at knife-point and threatened to kill them if they did not hand over their cash.

 The court considered the probation officer’s report, which observed that the accused had gone on the wrong path due bad elements. The officer had said there was a chance for their reformation and rehabilitation. “We prefer to give benefit of probation because if he remains in jail, the possibility of becoming a hardened criminal in association with other hardened and habitual criminals cannot be ruled out. It is necessary to give an opportunity to reform himself,” the court said.
 
 The court ordered his release under the Probation of Offenders Act on a bond with surety of Rs15,000. The court said the accused was to keep and maintain good behaviour. “He shall remain in supervision of the probation officer, child welfare committee, for three years. The accused shall not leave the jurisdiction of this court till the completion of period of supervision,” the court said. It held that he has to observe all directions and orders of the district probation officer and has to be present before the officer once a month. It also said, “He shall abstain from intoxication during the period. He shall not commit any offence of similar nature or other offence.”
 
 The accused has two other cases pending against him. The accused allegedly accosted the two victims, who shouted for help, on August 19, 2016, at 9.15am. People gathered at the spot but the accused threatened them. He removed Rs420 from the pant pocket of one victim, and when he tried to do the same to the other victim, the latter resisted. A scuffle broke out and cops passing by stopped on seeing the commotion. The accused was caught and handed over to Deonar police.
 
 THE LAW
 
 * Under section 4 of the Probation of Offenders Act, when any person is found guilty of having committed an offence not punishable with death or imprisonment for life, the court can order his release on probation for good conduct, on his entering into a bond to appear and receive the sentence when called upon during that period
 
 * Section 6 of the Act imposes restrictions on imprisonment of offenders under 21 when found guilty of having committed an offence punishable with imprisonment but not with imprisonment for life.
 
