BENGALURU: A film production unit manager has been arrested in connection with the mysterious death of a   at a   during the shooting of Kannada  .

 Narasimha, who was responsible for coordination at the location, has been taken into police custody in a case of negligence causing death.This is the first arrest after police named seven people in the FIR, including Nandakishore, the director of the movie.
 
 Padmamma Muniyappa, 44, was found dead in the lift shaft of the construction site on Monday night. She had come to take part in the shooting of VIP, starring Manoranjan, son of Kannada star V Ravichandran.
 
 While senior police officers claimed that Nandakishore and other crew members were missing and weren't available for questioning, the director on Wednesday called TOI and claimed that he wasn't absconding.
 
 Stating that he'd cooperate with the investigators, Nandakishore said he had gone to a temple outside the city and hadn't answered or received any calls on his cellphone on Tuesday. He said he'd meet his lawyers and take further legal action.
 
 Nandakishore said that he was shooting a scene where the hero, a civil engineer, was constructing a building for slum-dwellers and it required a large crowd.He also contradicted the FIR, claiming that no shooting took place on the fifth floor of the building. “We didn't shoot in the building where she was found dead. It is said that the body was found at 3pm. In fact, we came to know about it after the shooting was over around 6pm,” he said.
 
 “Do you think we would continue shooting for three hours if there was a dead body in the building? Also, there were more than 400 people in the area. How could we possibly keep track of everyone present,” he asked.
 
 Senior police officers, however, stood by the charges filed, claiming that a construction site wasn't a safest place to shoot a film and the production firm had given an undertaking to the building owner that it would have in place all safety measures, and would take responsibility for any mishap.
 
 Amit Singh, SP, Bengaluru Rural, said the role of the director and others will be probed further. He said police are investigating the role of each person to ascertain culpability in the case.
 
 Meanwhile, the probe to find out how the artiste fell and died is yet to see any progress.
 
