MUMBAI: Anything can go viral on the Internet — a person, photo, message or event — and they can be equal parts wonder and a source of worry. That's what happened when a Facebook user by the name of Zain Shaikh posted a fake message on Sunday about a minor boy's kidnap and murder, along with a photo claiming the victim was his nephew, and sent the wired world into a tizzy. The post was shared more than 7,500 times before it was flagged as fake and Shaikh's profile went missing.

  on Monday asked the cyber crime cell to conduct an inquiry to find out who was behind this hoax and the motive behind it. While some experts felt this was a way of spreading terror through social media, joint commissioner of police (crime) Sanjay Saxena said, “If the person has created mischief, further action will be initiated by registering an FIR.“ A Facebook user by the name of Zain Shaikh sent the wired world into a tizzy when he posted a fake message on Sunday about a minor boy's kidnap and murder, along with a photo claiming the victim was his nephew. Shaikh-whether the name is genuine is itself a question--had claimed his four-year-old nephew had been kidnapped by the family driver in Mumbai, who had been employed with them for the last four years. In the constant flow of updates he talked about lodging a police complaint and the missing car being found parked at Dadar TT Circle befo re announcing that the boy was no more and that his funeral would be held at Nariyalwadi Kabrastan in Mazgaon.
 
 Hundreds of condolence messages poured over social media and garnered media and police attention. Late Sunday night, Shaikh posted a picture of a huge crowd at the “funeral“ (suspected to be from Yakub Memon's burial). Soon after, Shaikh deleted his posts and by night his Facebook profile had disappeared. A profile with the same picture and the same name was reactivated late Monday night and though it could not be indepently confirmed if it was of the same person and though it had none of Sunday's posts, it had old posts about the man's desire to be very famous.
 
 “The social web is being used to spread terror and take revenge. Police have to think before taking action in such matters. Who has gained at whose cost? I wonder what action police would take unless someone files a case and pushes hard,“ said ex-state DGP D Sivanandhan. While IPS-officer-turned lawyer YP Singh stressed false messages which cause panic constitute an offence under Section 505 of IPC, cyber lawyer Prashant Mali said such messages should attract Section 66F of the IT Act, 2000 which mandates punishment up to life.
 
 Clearly, social media misuse is on the rise as a consequence of the liberty and anonymity it offers users to upload images, videos, post fake messages and dupe the gullible in diverse ways. Among the recent examples of what people's online behaviours have spawned is Barun Kashyap, a creative director who generated a furore on social media last year when he cooked up a story about 'gau rakshaks' on his Facebook page and filed a false police complaint about being harassed for his leather bag in the hope that this would bring him publicity .
 
 Actor Mandira Bedi's husband Raj Kaushal was booked in 2011for starting a rumour on Twitter about “broken cables“ on the Bandra-Worli sea link.
 
 Most hoaxes seeking donations involve photos of a sick or injured child and are circulated without permission of the child's family . In 2012 India's toll-free helpline for street kids calls offering after-party leftover food. The NGO managed to trace the person who had started a chain post on this. Later the NGO had to put up a disclaimer denying the post.
 
 More such cases are coming to light “post-demonetization“, said cyber security expert Ritesh Bhatia. “There has been a 20% rise in fake posts after notebandi pushed more people into buying smart phones and signing into apps. It offers a parallel reality where vents one's suppressed desires of attention or revenge.“
 
 
 
 Police must get to the bottom of this case in order to send a message to all that any online mischief that sparks alarm, creates disharmony in society or triggers a law and order situation will not be overlooked. At the same time they must deal with such matters on a case-to-case basis, sensitively examining the merits of every case, so freedom of expression is not hindered or circumscribed.
 
