Vivek Moozhikk-ulam recently won the   by Kerala government for bright young vocalists below 30. 

 However, the 27-year-old, who hails from Moozhikkulam in Kochi, would have probably laughed it off if someone told him 10 years ago that he will be a passionate Carnatic musician. That’s because he only began taking music seriously in his early 20s, unlike many gifted singers that have been practising since their childhood.
 
 Vivek, who also stepped into film music through Bijibal’s composition Oru Thari Aasha in Thrissivaperoor Kliptham, recalls how the Sa Re Ga Ma sweetness made slow yet steady inroads into his life.
 
 His dad Premkumar, though not a musician, is the one who paved the way for Vivek to be what he is today, says the singer. “My dad has always been passionate about music, despite never training in it, and used to always encourage me to be a musician. Through my childhood and teens, I learnt the basics of Carnatic from various gurus, but was never serious and hardly ever practised. Even after I joined Kalady Sree Sankara University to pursue BA in Music, the attitude continued,” Vivek remembers.
 
 The youngster once even decided not to give his exams and left for Chennai to study sound engineering. But the city had some different plans in store for him.
 
 “Chennai’s Carnatic music scene, culture and the wide opportunities it provide, its passionate young musicians who work hard to improve their talent while maintaining a healthy competition among themselves, and the overall impact the genre had on me changed me into what I am today,” Vivek says.
 After two years in Chennai, he returned and completed his exams, finished his MPhil and is now planning a PhD in music. “It’s after I turned 20 that the interest and confidence to be a full-time musician kicked in. As I understood that I am a late entrant into the field, I began focusing on music a lot more, sometimes even without attending many social functions. That was a phase when people wondered ‘what’s up with him,’ but I guess now they understand,” says the singer.
 
 Regardless, the usual challenges faced by a Carnatic singer in Kerala do not evade him. “I have the strong support of my family, but as compared to places like Chennai, Kerala hardly has good opportunities for those like me. People also keep saying, ‘May be you should find a job and do your music alongside’. The same comments come in when singers try to get married too,” Vivek reveals.
 
 However, he doesn’t once express a wish to relocate to anywhere else, where he might get better opportunities. “Kerala is home, I wish I work hard and emulate singers like Abhishek Raghuram and Kunnukudi Balamuralikrishna, who are my inspiration. When it comes to hard comments, I just have a hollow tunnel between my ears,” he says, smiling. 
 
 Vivek has been training under C R Vaidyanathan from 2013 and before that, V R Dileep Kumar was his guru. Among other accolades, the singer had also won the M S Subbalakshmi Fellowship in 2014, has a senior Scholarship of the Ministry of Culture and is a B high artiste in All India Radio.
 
 
 
 
 
