BENGALURU: From multinationals to startups, more companies in India are equipping their staff with techniques to   and appropriately respond to  . 

 A handful of firms such as Pinkerton, Guardwell Detective Services and Netrika Consulting have been in the business of training companies on employment screening and detection of fraud. 
 
 Concepts of prevention of crime and techniques to deal with terror strikes are garnering good response from clients. "We've trained at least 100 firms, including   and Reliance Securities, on crime prevention. Our specialized course - Certified Anti-Terrorism Specialist - has picked pace with institutions such as RBI enrolling for the module," said Sanjay Kaushik, MD, Netrika Consulting.
 
 Firms are opting for customized curriculum with focus on specialized areas - criminal investigation, suspicious-behaviour assessment, criminal profiling, terrorism, political violence, persons of interest (surveillance), with theoretical and practical classes. Saturday saw the conclusion of a three-day training on crime prevention in Bengaluru. 
 
 Representatives of Oracle, Capgemini, CA Technologies and  , along with others such as Hero MotoCorp, attended the meeting. Similar programmes, Netrika said, have been conducted in Mumbai, Delhi, Gurugram, Chennai, among other Indian cities, where PayPal, Godrej, Vodafone, Bosch, Mylan and Bajaj Automobiles have participated.
 
 "Such training broadens your perspective. The content also focuses on the security around the world and gives you better ideas which can improve the way you operate," Vivek Rathi, regional head (security) for Capgemini, who attended the training session on crime prevention, said.
 
 Crime prevention, especially those involving a firm's own employees, may have been a focus area. A 2016 PricewaterhouseCoopers survey shows 61% of economic crimes in India are committed by employees within an organization, but an increasing number of terror groups have made it necessary for corporates - now perceived as soft targets - to learn ways to deal with terror.
 
 "We provide intricate views on international terrorism and counterterrorism measures, teach how to react when terror strikes, how to investigate suspicious person(s) or activity that could lead to terror mishaps. Our courses are accredited by the Chartered International Institute of Security & Crisis Management, an international body," Netrika said in an email response.
 
 The fact that companies like Flipkart, Reliance Securities and the RBI opting for training reflects the threat perception. Captain Bharti Bhalla of RBI said: "Looking at the innovative ways and new techniques employed by terror agencies, we felt it's the need of the hour to train for such scenarios."
 
 Gaurav Dutta, senior director (security and investigations), Flipkart, said training personnel for specific threats helps them assess situations better. "Security is about protection of assets, people, facilities, data, product, brand and the reputation. Merely having security personnel is not enough today. Such training helps us react better in case of an act of terror or a white-collar crime by an executive," he added.
 
 Arguing it is almost impossible for law-enforcement and intelligence agencies to alone deal with all people capable of striking terror, Angelo Bani, security adviser, World Economic Forum (WEF), said everybody must share the responsibility, and that's where training is essential.
 
 "Our training combines lectures with table-top exercises and simulations on counterterrorism and crime-prevention activities. We offer practical outdoor exercise on target surveillance, group exercises on security - investigative questioning, behavioural assessment and security profiling, social media exploitation, tracking and analysis, live online investigations, videos and audio recording," Bani, who has helped train several Indian clients, added.
 
 
