BENGALURU: Shaking off the holiday languor, nearly 12,000   showed up at   early on Sunday to put their best foot forward.

 They were at the venue to participate in the  , organized in collaboration with The Times of India. Bengaluru is the third and final destination for the multi-city initiative, which aims to encourage citizens to walk for the sake of their health. 
 
 Ashish Mehrotra, MD and CEO of Max Bupa health insurance, said the objective is to bring about a change in mindsets, by making citizens healthconscious. “We are back in Bengaluru after four years.People in metropolitan cities are prone to lifestyle illnesses.Max Bupa Walk for Health 2017 survey reveals that 91% of the people in Bengaluru believe walking helps curb lifestyle-related diseases. But there are many who are yet to make the transition to a healthier and more successful life,“ he said.
 
 Flagging off the Bengaluru edition of the walk were actor Radhika Pandit, athlete Anju   and former Mrs India, Aditi Gowitrikar. Addressing the crowd, Pandit said: “It is refreshing to see everyone active so early.I have never been a fan of the gym, and prefer to walk so that I can connect with nature. Lately, I have been trying out a dance-yoga hybrid called dance-asana.“
 
 Anju said: “ I learnt the importance of being fit when my dad enrolled me into athletics at the age of 4. A simple walk every day can help maintain the right balance between physical and mental health“.
 
 Organizers estimate that nearly 4,000 people registered on the spot; 10,000-11,000 pre-registered. Donning their best athletic gear, citizens participated in the five-km walkathon that circled   to end at the stadium. Kids and senior citizens had a less strenuous two-km stretch to cover. The crowd's enthusiasm was pumped up through a zumba warm-up session, that had participants singing and dancing energetically. 
 
 Kiran Vishal, a 32-year-old schoolteacher, came with her family in tow. Both cycling enthusiasts, she and her husband wanted to set an example for their daughter. “We had told Jheel yesterday that she would have to wake up early on Sunday,“ said the Nagarbhavi resident. Kids had plenty to be excited about as they were kept busy with face painting, balloon animals and lifesize versions of their favorite cartoon characters walking around. 
 
 Bharath Acharya, 32, who came a close second at the end of the walk, said he normally visits the gym to keep in shape.“ In a race, I believe it is harder to walk fast than run, as that urge to break into a run is always there. I enjoyed the experience,“ said the Rajarajeshwari Nagar resident. 
 
 Dinakar K, a 64-year-old resident of Sahakaranagar, said he participated in the walk at the insistence of his friend. “I walk for five km everyday. I think walking is the best exercise because it requires no equipment,“ he added. 
 
