Bhopal: The Supreme Court appointed monitoring committee for medical relief and rehabilitation of gas victims has expressed its concern over deteriorating health services at Bhopal Memorial Hospital and Research Centre (BMHRC), according to its committee member Purnendu Shukla, here on Saturday. 

 The empowered committee met BMHRC senior consultants and doctors. This development has come following a TOI report on July 28, which quoted apprehensions of gas activist Abdul Jabbar.
 
 “The committee met three doctors and other consultants. It was a widely held view of specialists and doctors of BMHRC that the hospital administration under department of health research (DHR) has failed to implement recruitment rules (RR) despite assurances,” said Shukla.
 
 The monitoring committee reports to the Madhya Pradesh high court. It has been empowered to oversee medical relief and rehabilitation under Union government’s DHR-run BMHRC and state government-run gas rahat hospitals. 
 
 “It is unfortunate that gas victims’ hospital is facing a closure. RR rules are not in place. DHR has failed the gas victims. The situation is pathetic,” said gas activist Rachna Dhingra. 
 
 Over five lakh victims of the Bhopal gas disaster of 1984 depend on these hospitals for free healthcare. 
 
 Meanwhile, Bhopal Gas Peedit Mahila Udyog Sanghathan convenor Jabbar and co-convener ND Jayaprakash have written to DHR secretary Dr Soumya Swaminathan seeking her immediate attention.
 
 They alleged that due to ‘indifferent attitude of the ministry of health and family welfare and its insistence on formulating a standalone recruitment rules (RR) for BMHRC (which would be less attractive than central government health scheme RR), there has been an exodus of senior consultants, other specialists and senior residents’.
 
 BMHRC was set up as a premier super-specialty hospital in Bhopal serving the health needs of not only gas-victims free of cost, but also serves a large number of non-gas-victims on payment basis.
 
 
