VISAKHAPATNAM: Foreign delegates at the CII partnership summit on their first visit to Vizag are quite upbeat about the city, scenic beauty, hospitality and cuisine. Foreigners on second visit are also impressed to find a lot of improvement in the city.

 Almost all of them find the city clean, green with a beautiful combo of seas and hills. The yummy Andhra cuisine also was a hit among them. Around 400 foreign delegates from across 50 countries are put up in the various star hotels of Vizag for these two-three days.
 
 Sam Freeman, director of a retail college, from Brisbane Australia said, “This is my second visit to Vizag after 2014. I find a lot of development, especially along  , which has been beautified with attractive graffiti and paintings on the walls. The roads are much cleaner and more new buildings are coming up. The Andhra cuisine is always a delight, especially anything with gongura. The Gongura mamsam (meat) is one of my favourites.”
 
 Equally generous in her compliments about Vizag was Dr Alcira Susane Goggi, a scientist from ISU Seed Science Centre in Iowa, USA. “I just landed in Vizag and soon after was greeted by a lovely view of the seas and hills and temples. I enjoyed my drive from the airport to the hotel and summit venue. I am also looking forward to the food here. I am used to spicy food in the US dished out by my Indian students. So, I am going to enjoy Andhra cuisine as well,” she averred.
 
 The Japanese team, some of whom had been to the city before also appreciated the development. Tetsujiro Tani from Sumitomo Corporation India Private Limited said, “I keep travelling to India and Vizag as well. This time I find the city has overall improved in civic infrastructure such as roads and greenery as compared to last January.”
 
 Gopinath Pillai, an Indian-origin national of Singapore, pointed out that the city has remarkably recovered and was rebuilt post cyclone Hudhud devastation. “It’s wonderful to see the recovery within two years of the cyclone. There’s a plethora of business opportunities in the city and quite rightly it’s the commercial hub of AP,” he stated.
 
 Meanwhile, besides signing of several tourism-related MoUs, the   also took around 40 delegates on a sightseeing tour of the city to Kailasagiri,   and Submarine Museum. Some delegates also undertook a 360 degree 3D virtual tour that encompassed the various tourist spots of Vizag. “This pleasant city Vizag is truly an appropriate place for investment in tourism,” pointed out US delegates Allengo and Susanna.
 
