BHOPAL:   took over the   after doubts were raised regarding the efficiency of Madhya Pradesh (MP) police in handling such a sensitive issue.

 But it was two officers from the state police department – S G Nair and Mukesh Tiwari – who played a significant role in solving the blind murder mystery and subsequent arrest of those involved.
 
 From verification of Zahida’s residential address to recovery of murder weapon, sources in the agency say, ace investigator A G L Kaul and other officers at CBI headquarters in Delhi who were monitoring the probe were largely dependent on these two officers after getting a breakthrough in the case.
 
 Nair and Tiwari joined state police as sub-inspectors in 1992 and 2000 respectively. While Nair went on deputation in CBI in 2006, Tiwari followed him two years later.
 
 CBI had begun investigations into the killing on September 6 – almost three weeks after the Shehla Masood was shot dead in broad daylight in front of her house. After A G L Kaul’s death in October 2014, these two officers were recorded at length by the CBI’s special court.
 
  “Both of them had played a tremendous role in cracking the murder mystery, but were not rewarded by the agency. Moreover, they were repatriated to the state police as few months back where some of their colleagues look at them with a jaundiced eye,” said a senior IPS officer wishing anonymity. While Nair has joined MPSTF, Tiwari has been posted in the State’s Lokayukta.
 
 Three days after Shehla Masood’s murder, the Madhya Pradesh government had recommended a CBI inquiry. The decision came after former Union minister Jairam Ramesh wrote to the chief minister, pointing at a possible mining mafia involvement in Masood's murder.
 
 The then state home minister Uma Shankar Gupta addressed media claiming that her family members had expressed concern and demanded a CBI inquiry to the whole incident. “The state chief minister while accepting their demand has decided to write to the CBI to investigate into the murder," he had.
 
 When Bhopal police had initially hinted the death could be a suicide, leading to allegations of a cover-up, Masood's family had said only a CBI investigation could reveal the truth.
 
 RTI activist and a strong supporter of Anna Hazare's anti-corruption movement, Shehla Masood was shot dead around 11.30 am from point blank range while she was leaving in her car to attend a demonstration in support of Anna Hazare on August 16. About 35 years old, Shehla was still sitting in the driver's seat outside her house in the Koh-e-fiza area when she was attacked. No one heard any gun shot. When the car didn't move for a while, the family members came out only to find that she had collapsed on one side with blood oozing out from her chest. The then director general of police SK Rout and the then additional director general (Intelligence) Rishi Kumar Shukla inspected the crime scene along with the IG and SSP of Bhopal.
 
 Stung by the mounting criticism and dissatisfaction expressed by the family of Shehla Masood, Madhya Pradesh government had recommended a CBI inquiry to probe the murder three days later. Shehla’s family had also written a letter to the director general of the police demanding security to the family. Her family was hurt after the state police started floating the theory of suicide in its off the record briefings, and this was one of the reasons why the family wanted a CBI probe.
 
 On September 3, 2011, CBI had registered a case against ‘unknown persons’. After taking over the probe, CBI also appealed to the general public to provide information, if any, relating to the incident. During the investigation, the sleuths found a gold pendant inside the Santro car in which Shehla was murdered. Central Forensic Science Laboratory (CFSL) had reconstructed the scene of crime in front of Shehla’s house where her car was parked. During the very first day after taking over the investigations, CBI officials recovered a gold pendant from inside the car that had been under the possession of the Bhopal police since August 16. This was the turning point in the case which otherwise was being portrayed as a suicide. CBI changed the line of investigations and concluded that it was a case of murder.
 
