KOLKATA: The West Bengal government is set to directly recruit associate professors and professors. Direct appointment was till now restricted only to assistant professors, who were then promoted to the senior posts through the Carrier Advancement Scheme. The higher education department will place the   (Amendment) Bill 2017 in the current session of the assembly and modify the necessary sections to incorporate the changes.

 “As of now, the   (CSC) has the mandate to recruit only at the level of assistant professors and principals. Appointment to the posts of associate professors were only possible through the Carrier Advancement Scheme (CAS) after receiving promotions,“ said a source at the education secretariat.
 
 “Recently, we received sanction for a large number of posts which were created by the state cabinet as per the   (NCTE) regulation 2014. There are about 250 positions at the governmentaided BEd colleges which have been given a go-ahead. These posts have now been moved to CSC for recruitment.Since appointment of associate professors and professors take place on the ba sis of NCTE Act 2014, we are required to amend the law,“ the source added.
 
 The government has already issued recruitment norms to the two positions where the necessary criteria have been specified to the aspirants.
 
 If the CSC Act is amended, then several colleges running post-graduation courses won't face any teacher crunch.“Another anomaly which existed was as per prescription from the   (UGC), govern ment-aided colleges which are teaching PG courses must be taught by professors only . Till now, the teaching of PG courses in the government-aided colleges are done by senior associate professors who are eligible to be qualified as professors. The amendment will open the door for direct recruitment to the posts of professors in 50-odd government-aided colleges across the state running PG courses,“ pointed out a state education department official.
 
 By amending the CSC Act 2012, some changes are also being ushered into the functioning of the body . Earlier, 15 part-time members in the commission, who were headed by a full time chairman, governed the CSC. Along with the chairman, employees like secretary and controller of CSC are full-time posts. “Now, we are making three members out of 15 as full-time members while the remaining will be part-time. We have also created a finance officer's post who will be recruited from the government's audit and account service.If a suitable candidate is unavailable, then government or aided colleges or university teachers with knowledge of accounts may be appointed,“ said a senior official.
 
