KOLKATA: The Tollygunge police on Saturday said it will seek legal opinion on a possible chargesheet in the Rashbehari Avenue accident that claimed the life of model   only after it receives the full forensic reports. 

 "A decision on the exact role of actor   will hence be determined based on these reports," claimed a source. Top sources in Lalbazar said the legal discussion on the possible chargesheet will be independent of whether the cops decide to slap stricter charges on the actor in the next few days.
 
 But sources in Lalbazar - who have handled such probes in past - claimed it may be still a few weeks to a few months before the forensic reports actually reach cops from the experts given that several CCTV footage have to be studied and Vikram's car spotted and certified in them.
 
 At present, CCTV footage analysis is being carried out only by the Central FSL at Park Circus for the entire of east India. Last year's two major incidents - the accident at Hazra Road that led to the death of one and the subsequent rioting at the posh   in Ballygunge and the mysterious death of teenager Aabesh Dasgupta - also involved a detailed analysis of CCTV footage. Till date, the final reports in both cases are awaited.
 
 "We are in touch with senior FSL scientists and administrators and are trying to get the reports at the earliest,"explained a source.
 
 Lalbazar officials insisted that such cases once again point to the need of setting up a similar facility at the State FSL in   so that cases are not held up. "Given that we all now look up to CCTVs for evidence, we need experts who explain events to us in quick time," said a senior cop.
 
 Given the constraints, the cops are mulling if they can use other forensic evidences, including the post-mortem report of Sonika, the blood test reports of both Vikram and Sonika and the physical test results of Vikram's Toyota Corolla Altis car, to go ahead and seek a legal opinion on the possible chargesheet.
 
 The police rethink comes in the wake of Sonika's family writing to commissioner of police,  , for a proper probe into the accident. The victim's family has been claiming that there are glaring lapses in the case. A statement released by Sonika's uncle Patrick Quinn, who had also lodged the police complaint, raised a number of such issues about four days ago.
 
