BENGALURU: Bommasandra BJP leader Srinivas Prasad’s killers had lured him out of his house early on Tuesday morning. They had sought his help to shift the prime accused’s mother to hospital, claiming she was injured in an accident and was battling for life on the road.

 Prasad receiving the call from the prime accused,  , around 4.45am. He rushed out in his Toyota Innova only to be ambushed and hacked to death by a group of armed men near   on  .
 
 The killers, police said, had attempted to murder Prasad twice the previous day but weren’t successful as he was with his supporters at a press meet in the afternoon and with cops in Hebbagodi hotel in the night.
 
 The next morning Madhu called Prasad. “The call was an important lead in the investigation,” a senior police officer said, adding they were sure it was made only to get Prasad out of the house. “Madhu said his mother had met with an accident after alighting from a bus and had to be shifted to hospital,” police said.
 
 A man deployed near Prasad’s house confirmed to the killers that he had left the house. “Madhu was standing in the middle of the road. Prasad saw him, stopped the vehicle and got down asking where his mother was,” police said. In the meantime, the other assailants hiding nearby attacked Prasad.
 
 “Madhu threw chilli powder on Prasad’s face to prevent him from running. He told us Prasad was a good runner and would have easily escaped,” police said. Madhu and four others — including Congress leader and Bommasandra town municipal council member   and her son C Manjunatha — were arrested on Wednesday. Police are on the lookout for five others.
 
 Realty row played a role: cops
 
 Police believe   was killed not only because of the dispute he had with Sarojamma Ramaswamy over the post of Bommasandra municipal council president. He also wanted to be president of the real estate council in and around Bommasandra.
 
 However, the government reserved the post for women, upsetting the BJP leader’s chances. Sarojamma was to benefit from the move as she was the only woman member of the council, but Prasad went to court and got a stay on the election.
 
 “Prasad and Sarojamma wanted to gain an upperhand in the real estate business in and around Bommasandra and Anekal. Due to demonetization, the business was hit, and Prasad was helping people buy lands at cheaper prices. This made the rival group unhappy as they wanted to halt all land transactions till May or June, hoping the prices would soar again by then,” a senior police officer said.
 
