GURUGRAM: The   has stepped in to stop the passage of 464 acres of   worth Rs 3,000 crore in  , located along the  , from passing into the hands of private players.

 Officials claimed decks for the ownership of land to transfer hands were cleared after former deputy commissioner T L   passed an order. But Satyaprakash, who moved to Chandigarh in January after being appointed  , denied passing an order and said he had only “given an opinion” to chief secretary D S Dhesi. 
 
 “The chief secretary had asked me to check if mutation that was carried out a couple of years ago was valid or not,” Satyaprakash told TOI on Tuesday. “I only gave my opinion in this matter and did not pass any order. I also suggested that the advocate general should be consulted on the issue,” he added.
 
 According to sources in MCG, around 80 individuals have claimed ownership of the land in question. The land was earlier with the gram panchayat and came to MCG in 2010, two years after the municipal corporation was formed. “The ownership of this land has been in question for over three decades now and several officials have submitted conflicting reports, by interpreting Punjab Village Common Land Act 1961, in different manners,” a senior MCG official said. “During this period of time, some clauses in this Act have been amended as well, due to which clarity has been further lost,” the official said.
 
 Sources said the chief secretary had asked Satyaprakash, who was also MCG commissioner, whether mutation of the land in the name of MCG was legally valid. “Satyaprakash only mentioned they are legally void as they are in contravention of two highest revenue courts of the state,” said an official. “The advice actually emanates from orders of two former financial commissioners YS Malik and SS Dhillon. The orders Malik clearly indicate there was widespread malpractice regarding land records related to MCG. He had recommended a vigilance inquiry against seven officials.”
 
 Satyaprakash said the process was “a quasi-judicial proceeding based on facts”. “A mutation neither alienates land nor changes possession. I appraised my superiors about facts of the case. This is a grossly misunderstood case,” he said on Tuesday. The MCG, having managed to stop the transfer, is now contemplating other actions to protect its land. “The matter to settle ownership of this land has reached the high court as well and the matter is sub judice,” an official said. “A few years ago, a sarpanch of this area colluded with some private builders and sold it to them. This has been noted by the court. We have checked all records dating back to the 80s and have found that the ownership of this land belonged to the village panchayat,” the official said.
 
 Senior district officials, who did not wish to be named, said it would be wrong to blame Satyaprakash since he was asked by the state government to resolve the issue within six weeks. “This is quite a complicated case and to say this order was passed with wrong intentions will be incorrect,” said one of them. “It might be that he erred in studying the issue at hand closely. Also, he was asked by the state government to wrap up this matter within six weeks, and therefore, he might not have been able to go through the entirety of this case.”
 
 The official said, “We would like to convert this entire parcel of land into a green area as it is close to the Aravalis and will not allow any sort of construction there.” 
 
 
