RAJKOT: A   involving a   and son of a known bootlegger led to two incidents of firing and   on cops in Wadhwan town of Surendranagar on Tuesday. The town turned tense and additional   had to be called in to control the situation. In the evening, five persons were arrested for rioting and pelting stones on police.

 On Monday, when police constable Amin Belim was going on his bike, he collided with the son (name not known) of bootlegger Muno Jaath. Both had an altercation, following which Jaath’s son beat up the cop. However, the matter didn’t end there. Sources said supporters of Belim went to Jaath’s house in the night and ransacked it.
 
 Angered by it, the bootlegger and his men targeted two of Belim’s supporters Irshad Solanki (35) and his nephew Lalabhai Sama. On Tuesday, when Solanki and Sama were going to the market on two-wheelers with their wives and children riding pillion, Jaath’s men intercepted them in two SUVs and opened fire at them near Wadhwan town of Surendranagar. While Sama managed to escape, Solanki was shot in the leg. In total, four shots were fired by the assailants said sources.
 
 Later, in the evening, around 100 people of Kasba Sheri came out on 80-feet road of Wadhwan town, as the news of firing on Irshad spread. “Police reached the spot as soon as they got information of crowd gathering at Kasba Sheri. Seeing police some notorious people started pelting stones. In retaliation, cops fired rubber bullets and dispersed the crowd,” Surendranagar superintendent of police   told TOI. 
 
 “Five persons have been arrested for rioting and pelting stones on cops. The situation is under control and additional security arrangements have been made,” he added.
 
 Meghani said that Irshad, who was shot in the leg was out of danger. “Two FIRs have been lodged. One for attempt to murder for firing on Irshad. The other FIR will be against a crowd headed by history-sheeter Babu Siraj for rioting and under the Gujarat Police Act,” said Meghani. He further added that the violence was because of rivalry between groups of the same community.
 
