HYDERABAD:   has been the sentinel of Indian and world classical languages right through its inception in 1917. Not many know that the Nizam VII, Mir Osman Ali Khan, had set up an exclusive department of Sanskrit in   University. He also gave scholarships to students to pursue studies in Sanskrit, the mother of Indian languages. Along with the university, the department of Sanskrit also turns 100. 

 Though the medium of instruction in Osmania University was Urdu till the early 1950s, the founding-fathers ensured that local languages as well as world classical languages are also taught on the campus. The department of Sanskrit was set up during the academic year 1918-19. The university collected ancient Sanskrit works and devised syllabus based on them.
 
 The departments of English, Kannada, Marathi, Urdu and Telugu were set up in 1918-19 for the benefit of students hailing from different linguistic backgrounds in the princely state of Hyderabad. Urdu was the first official language of the Hyderabad government while Kannada, Marathi and Telugu were second official languages. The princely state was spread over parts of modern Karnataka, Telangana and Maharashtra.
 
 On the classical languages front, the university introduced departments of Arabic and Persian, besides Sanskrit. Incidentally, Sanskrit and Persian belong to the Indo-European family and Indo-Iranian sub-family. Arabic on the other hand belong to Afro-Asiatic family and Semitic sub-family. Though a separate department was not set up for Hebrew, the founding-fathers ensured that there is a good collection of books in Hebrew, the language of prophets. Hebrew like Arabic also belongs to Afro-Asiatic family and Semitic sub-family. Some of the books in Arabic, Persian, and Hebrew are still available in the OU library.
 
 Interestingly, the history of Tamil in Osmania University predates even Urdu. The department of Tamil was set up way back in 1887 in  . The department was later attached to Osmania.
 
 Along with languages, the university also offered courses in law, mathematics, physics, theology, philosophy, chemistry and history in the very first year of its inception.
 
 In fact, the first department set up in the university was the Bureau of Translations (August 14, 1917). The bureau not only translated books from English into Urdu and other local languages but also devised syllabus. It gathered opinion from eminent personalities on improving campus standards to provide the best of the education available in those days, says city historian Dr  . In fact, Osmania was the first university in the world to offer so many languages and subjects to students in the very first year of its academic birth.
 
 Though the university became a reality in 1917, efforts began almost three decades earlier. It was on January 24, 1884 that eminent educationist   proposed to Nizam VI Mir Mahbub Ali Khan that Hyderabad needed a university.
 
