NEW DELHI: The Central Bureau of Investigation ( ) 
  Karti on Tuesday in connection with a case against the latter for allegedly influencing officials in the   (FIPB) to regularise “unapproved” investments by   when his father was finance minister.

 In its FIR against Karti and others, the CBI alleged that at least Rs 3.5 crore was paid by INX Media, promoted by Indrani and  , to companies directly or indirectly controlled by Karti to influence the FIPB decision. 
 
 Peter and Indrani are in jail, charged with the murder of the latter’s daughter Sheena Bora.
 
 The agency didn’t name   in its FIR and only unknown officials of the finance ministry are named, but sources said 
  was “very much under the scanner” as the final approval was given by him.
 
 According to the CBI, INX Media brought in Karti’s   after the I-T department sought clarifications from the FIPB as to how overseas investors had put Rs 305 crore, including through indirect investment, in INX Media when co-investors of the Mukerjeas had permission to get in just Rs 4.62 crore. 
 
 In fact, INX Media had acquired 26% stake in INX News without FIPB’s clearance.
 
 The CBI’s action, along with raids carried out by the I-T department in connection with the 
  , which coincided with the third anniversary of BJP’s victory in the Lok Sabha polls, attracted charges of vendetta by the opposition.
 
 The government, however, defended the action, with sources saying the investigation agencies had noticed a pattern where some companies benefiting from FIPB clearances made payments to entities linked to Chidambaram’s son. 
 
 In fact, the CBI said it had vouchers showing a payment of Rs 10 lakh to Advantage Strategic Consulting (P) Ltd, which it said was controlled by Karti indirectly, for his services. The agency said it also had three or four other vouchers related to payments to Karti’s firms.
 
 After registering the FIR, CBI teams conducted raids at 14 places, including Chidambaram’s Chennai home, 
  and private companies linked to the probe. 
 
 “Documents, emails and hard disks related to the case have been recovered,” CBI joint director Vineet Vinayak said.
 
 The CBI’s charge is that Karti’s firm was roped in after the I-T department sought clarifications “to get the issues resolved/addressed amicably by influencing public servants of the FIPB unit of the ministry of finance by virtue of his relationship with the then finance minister (Chidambaram)”. 
 
 According to the CBI, to conceal Karti’s involvement, it was Advantage Strategic Consulting which raised a bill for the services rendered by Chess Management to INX Media.
 
 In its FIR, the agency has named Karti, Indrani and Peter Mukerjea, Padma Vishwanathan of Advantage Strategic Consulting and unknown officials of the finance ministry. They have been booked for criminal conspiracy, among other things. 
 
 CBI sources said they would examine Karti, Peter and   and others and, if required, Chidambaram may also be called for examination later.
 
