Trichy: With the state government reluctant to sanction adequate funds for laying of   along national highway 67 passing through the city, residents have planned to stage a series of hunger strike, involving various stakeholders. 

 Though the government has already sanctioned Rs 84crore for land acquisition, stakeholders said that it is not enough and that it would require Rs 196 crore to lay service roads on either sides of the highway.
 
 Residents said that the absence of service roads along the highway is putting the lives of commuters as well as pedestrians at risk. According to a rough estimate, 500 people have lost their lives in accidents on this particular stretch. “There is no reason to stall the project any more,” said S Shakthivel, coordinator, federation for retrieval of Trichy -Palpannai-Thuvakudi service roads. The federation has been spearheading various protests for laying of service roads on the 14.5 km stretch from Palpannai to Thuvakudi for over a decade. 
 
 It was an administrative decision of the state government to skip service roads on this particular stretch while proposing the expansion of NH-67 into four-lane road in 2007-08. Though the step was taken to avoid escalation of project cost, the administration later made way for service roads realising their necessity. However, traders and shopkeepers on the stretch approached the high court against acquisition of roadside lands citing implications on their livelihood in 2011. It further delayed the process of laying service roads, though the verdict came in favour of local residents four years later in 2014.
 
 Meanwhile, funds (Rs 84 crore) allocated by the state government for acquisition of 35.518 hectare area became inadequate, which added to further delay. “If the 60-metre-wide service road has to be laid on either side it will now require Rs 196 crore,” said an official. 
 
 Instead of revising the fund allocation, the state government has asked National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) to reduce the width of service roads, a move that has not gone down well with the locals. “The state government cannot make changes in the project which has been released in the gazette by the President of India,” said Shakthivel.
 
 He said that the federation will stage hunger strikes if the government fails to allocate the required funds by May 31. 
 
 
