AHMEDABAD: Recently, a team from the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation’s health department, which was carrying out routine surveillance for   at a residential society in Usmanpura, was shocked to find that homes of even affluent families were heavily infested with mosquitoes.   were breeding in flowerpots, bird feeders, terraces, and bowls of water kept for pets or stray animals. As monsoon sets in, one may assume that mosquitoes breed only in areas where cleanliness is compromised. But that is not the case. And it is not true either that mosquito repellents can offer assured protection.

 “Mosquitoes tend to breed in homes and people are seldom aware of that,” said Bharat Vyas, junior entomologist, the AMC. “In most homes in the city, we find Anopheles and Aedes aegypti mosquitoes which cause malaria,  ,  ,  , basements,  ,   where water is stored, bird feeders, flower vases, cooler and refrigerator units under which stagnant water collects, and places where water leaks out from AC units.”
 
  Close to 900 cases of vector-borne infections were reported in June in civic body hospitals alone. AMC health experts said that such a high number of vector-borne disease cases at the onset of the season is rare and that the cases are likely to sharply increase. While vector-borne infections are usually high in this season, this year brings the added scare of zika virus-borne infections as well. At this point, awareness is important, AMC officials said. “We were shocked when AMC officials visited our house to check for breeding sites and found mosquitoes breeding in a small section of our cooler where water was stagnant,” said Lalita Vadaria, a resident of Jodhpur Tekra area. “Mosquitoes were also breeding in water around potted plants.”
 
 The civic body has intensified surveillance against vector-borne infections especially as part of the Malaria-free Gujarat by 2022 campaign in association with the state government. “We have been issuing notices to residents and imposing fine on commercial establishments where mosquitoes breed,” said in-charge medical officer, AMC health department, Bhavin Solanki.
 
 Authorities said they often find it extremely difficult to conduct surveillance at homes and societies. “Most families which are well-educated and well-to-do are often caught unawares by mosquito breeding in their homes,” said a senior AMC health official. “Besides, many of them don’t even allow us to carry out fogging or indoor residual spraying.”
 
