NAGPUR: The   has sought written submissions with regards to   competence of the Parliament to enact Scheduled Tribes & Other Traditional Forest Dwellers (Recognition of Forest Rights) Act, 2006.

 Hearing a petition filed by a group of NGOs engaged in wildlife conservation, challenging the historic Forest Rights Act (FRA), the Supreme Court, on Friday, said the matter was heard at length on one of the issues of legislative   of the Parliament to enact  .
 
 The SC said it is of the opinion that the submissions on the other issues are also required to be heard, to have a comprehensive view of the matter. Hence, the court directed the parties to make written submissions on the issue and will hear the case after summer vacation.
 
 Three NGOs — Praveen Bharghav (Wildlife First), Kishor Rithe (Nature Conservation Society, Amravati), and Poonam Dhanwatey (Tiger Research and Conservation Trust (TRACT), in a writ petition had sought to know procedure adopted for identification of genuine claims and grant of forest rights.
 
 The petitioner-NGOs have demanded setting up of a committee of independent experts or Controller and Auditor General (CAG) to examine implementation of the impugned FRA. The petitioners had claimed before the court that this law is ‘essentially a land distribution scheme’ and hence, falls within the jurisdiction of state governments and not the Centre.
 
 Many cases have come to the fore where FRA has been misused for land grabbing. The best example is of Yawal Wildlife Sanctuary in Jalgaon, which is under siege under the garb of FRA. States admit that vast tracts of forest land have been distributed under FRA. 
 
 The petitioners also want voluntary resettlement of people residing within national parks and sanctuaries without insisting on settling their rights therein under the impugned Act and direct the Centre to issue directions to all states for mandatory use of satellite imageries for verification of all the claims as a proof of actual occupation of the forest lands as on cut off date of December 13, 2005 before granting any new rights.
 
