While it was   who set the ball rolling for ' ' by recommending   to helm it after he heard the script, not many know that   had assented to play the father of Arjun Kapoor’s character, Charan, in the film much before. Best known by today’s gen for his performances in films like ' ',  ', 'Don 2 : The Chase Continues' and 'Bhaag Milkha Baag' to name a few, Pavan says, “I loved the script and had agreed to do it the moment I first heard the script a couple of years ago. When it came my way again, I liked the tadka Anees Bazmee added to the film. He’s a director who knows what he is doing. Even when there are 10 actors in a scene, he explains it to every one of them.” 
Not just the director, Pavan enjoyed the experience of working with the entire team so much that he hopes they can all collaborate on another movie again. “Anil Kapoor has delivered many fantastic performances in his career. This is one of his best.   has essayed the double role without making it look like a caricature, you will notice the difference in his eyes and body language.”
 Ask him about the instance where Anil apologised to him, out of the blue, at the film’s event recently, and the actor says, “I was surprised and couldn’t figure out why he was apologising. The only reason I could think of was when he asked me to give the cue for a scene that I was not a part of. Nonetheless, we had a fabulous time working on the film. In this industry, there are few actors who can pull of their roles in their style, jab hero wala maamla khatam ho jaata hai. Like   saab, who can essay different kinds of roles. Anil Kapoor is one actor who has looked after himself so well and has a wonderful range in terms of his body of work.”
 Though the National Award-winning actor is perceived by many as a serious actor, courtesy his performances in movies like 'Salim Langde Pe Mat Ro' and 'Children Of War', he will next be seen in 'Judwaa 2' starring   in dual roles. “As an actor, I feel I should be part of all kinds of stories. God has been kind to me, I don’t have to go looking for work. I believe in destiny. Jo hisse mein hai, woh toh milna hai. Bhagwan seb, khajur gira dega, you have to chew it well. So when you get a role, you have to play it better than your best. I’ve had people come and tell me that they remember me for my roles in films like 'Black Friday', 'Jab We Met' and ' ', but don’t remember my name. While it feels great and I’d also love to be known by my name, my director friends tell me what’s better for an actor than to be known for the roles he has played. I had got into theatre for the love of the art and coming to Mumbai was not on my mind in the beginning. Today, after all these years, I’m glad and grateful that someone first showed faith in me,” he signs off. 
 
  
  
 
 
