BATALA: From delivering punchlines on serious issues like pesticide scam to making fun of debt-ridden Badal government,  , popularly known as Ghuggi, has a long to-do list with him while campagning in his Batala constituency.

 Much like his AAP colleague  , this Punjab convener of AAP packs a punch with his sharp limericks and is drawing huge crowds in Majha, region where his party is in serious contention with   to disloge SAD-BJP from the power.
 
 The satirist and popular TV and silver screen actor is making his political debut on AAP ticket from his home district Batala, which is less than 20km from Pakistan border.
 
 “I am shocked that both the Congress and SAD make fun of comedians. We bring smiles to people in villages where the MLAs from these parties bring tears in the form of farmer suicides, killer buses owned by them and self-immolation by unemployed. We give them hope, we cheer them up unlike SAD and Congress netas who never visit these villages,” Ghuggi tells people.
 
 He makes it a point to bring at least a dozen comical touches to serious speeches. “Pehla asi tote te kabootara noo kheta ch udaande si, hun Tota poore khet noo uda le gaya (Earlier, farmers used to put scarecrows in fields to drive away pigeons and birds from damaging fields, then one day a minister Tota came and destroyed our fields with Rs 39-crore pesticide scam),” he says.
 
 As he moves from one village to another, there are people who make polite inquiries about his upcoming films. Some ask him to narrate his dialogues from the movies and others seek his autographs.
 
 He readily obliges but he’s quick to take a potshot at local MP from BJP and Bollywood star  . “Unlike that Mumbai hero, I am among you always,” he tells them. 
 
 Ghuggi insists that politics is far difficult a challenge than acting in movies but he left the industry as he wants to serve the villages.
 
 “I don’t think I quite miss the industry. It was fun but less hectic than this. It’s a gratifying feeling to be in the middle of so many people, speak to them on different issues, meet people from all walks of life in panchayats,” he says.
 
 In between, he also makes endless calls to his son and daughter whom he has not seen for nearly three months. His son plays Under-16 cricket at Mohali.
 
 “I keep asking my son about his cricket scores. I have worked hard for his passion for sports. I ensured he takes his sports and private coaching on time as he’s not going to school due to focus on under-16 games,” Ghuggi says.
 
