Aurangabad: The National Centre of Bio technological Information of USA has named new ly-found Kleb siella pneu moniae strain after its discoverer S G Borkar, a plant bacteriologist.

 The international honour has come in recognition of the discovery by the 61-year-old scientist, who is currently the principal of an Ambajogai-based agricultural college of the Vasantrao Naik Marathwada Agricultural University , and his research student Ajayashree TS. They found a new   strain that infests pomegranate plants in western Maharashtra.
 
 The bacterial strain as per earlier knowledge was responsible for causing pneumonia in human beings alone, but now believed to inflict the disease in the plant also.
 
 “The bacterial strain discovered by us causes root bark necrosis and wilt in pomegranate plant. The uprooted wilted plant and its roots harbor the bacteria. It survives in infected soil and root system for more than two years. The bacterial strain is also found to ha ve infected vegetable crops seedling like tomato, chilli and brinjal. It could evolve as a threat to these crops in the future,“ He told TOI on Sunday .
 
 Borkar carried out genome sequencing of the strain and deposited the details in NCBI, which has designated the strain as Klebsiella pneumoniae strain Borkar.
 
 Naming of Klebsiella pneumoniae strain after an Indian and particularly , a scientist from Maharashtra, is being considered as unique as most of the Klebsiella strains are given numbers and not the name of the scientist by the NCBI.
 
 The US government-funded national institute NCBI is considered as a national resource for molecular biology information, having a mission to develop new information technologies to aid in the understanding of fundamental mo lecular and genetic processes that control health and disease.
 
 Borkar stressed the need for further research on pneumonia strain named after him.“It is not yet known whether the new Klebsiella pneumoniae strain is pathogenic to humans, animals and birds. If this strain is pathogenic to human, animals and birds, it could prove catastrophic since these creatures are associated with farming system. It may contaminate the water stream also,“ he said, adding that further detailed research at a national level is needed to save the agro-ecosystem.
 
 Naming the bacterial strain by Gene Bank in US after Borkar is incredible and a milestone in science of bacteriology , top authorities at Vasantrao Naik Marathwada Agricultural University said.
 
 
