AHMEDABAD: Just 73 days before transfer of power and partition of India into two countries, India’s cabinet secretary HM Patel and financial advisor Chaudhuri Mohammed Ali submitted the document ‘Administrative Consequences of Partition’. It was a roadmap for dividing government assets and liabilities between India and Pakistan. 

 Patel and Ali bore the burden of dividing a huge, emotionally charged subcontinent. This task was far more complex than any military operation. Few have heard of these men and the real story behind the Partition. On Thursday, the story told by thousands of pages of an official documents reached the  .
 
 Daughter of late HM Patel, former   chairman   has donated to the Ashram these crucial cabinet papers related to India’s Partition. Amrita wanted this defining moment in India’s history be made accessible to researchers. 
 
 “I donated these documents to the Ashram because they have the expertise to manage archives,” Amrita Patel said. “These papers contain HM Patel’s speeches, Partition papers, the making of the Sardar film and papers related to it when he was in government. This is a treasure trove for any researcher or historian.”
 
 Apart from the Partition papers, there are reams on the production of 1993 movie called, ‘Sardar’. The film, produced by HM Patel, is based on Sardar Patel, his role in integrating 500 princely states. 
 
 In the 1970s, HM Patel was with the Swatantra Party for a while and was the finance minister in the Morarji Desai government. In fact, he led the demonetization drive during Morarji government, nationalization of the LIC, and opened the country to foreign investments. Later HM Patel was the home minister in the short-lived   government. 
 
 Sabarmati Ashram director Tridip Suhrud said that every body associates the Partition with chaos and conflict. 
 
 “But HM Patel papers show how representatives of both sides worked sincerely and amicably to divide the assets and liabilities,” Suhrud said. “The whole process of deciding what was ‘Indian’ and what was ‘Pakistani’, which institution should be divided and which one was too ‘unique’ to be partitioned and those that became points of dispute are revealed in these papers.” 
 
 Suhrud said they had just received “this treasure” and are yet to categorise them. 
 
 Right from the armed forces, civil departments, files, records of the Reserve Bank, jurisdiction of the superior courts to vehicles, office tables, chairs, and ink stands were to be divided. Patel and Ali had just 10 weeks. There is also a special box containing HM Patel’s tiffin box, hot plate and his money box.
 
 
