LUCKNOW/KANPUR: On a day of political analogies in battleground UP, prime minister   and chief minister Akhilesh Yadav engaged in a verbal duel charging each other with ‘scamming’ UP’s electorate. On the one hand, Modi, while addressing audiences at a public rally in Meerut, redefined SCAM as ‘Samajwadi, Congress, Akhilesh and Mayawati’ and said the BJP was fighting against these four forces in poll-bound UP. On the other, Akhilesh, holding back-to-back poll rallies in Kanpur Dehat and Auraiyya, came up with his own counter analogy to Modi’s version. Asking the crowds not to fall for the BJP’s promise of “acche din”, the UP CM said, “Scam means, Save the Country from Amitshah, Modi.”

 By evening, ‘SCAM’ appeared to have caught the imagination of the  , which followed with another long-form version of the word: “Sirf Communal Amitshah - Modi”. Addressing a rally in Auraiyya, Akhilesh also said people of UP will do away with AM - Amit and Modi in the assembly elections. “People will send this AM back,” he said.
 
 Modi, during his Meerut rally also alleged that the Akhilesh Yadav government had done little to help the poor, marginalised or the farmers in the state. In a jibe at the Samajwadi Party’s internal bickering during the past few months, Modi also said, “Jo papa, chacha, mama mein hi phasa reh gaya wo pradesh pe kya dhyan dega.” (How will a person who remained busy minding his father and uncles find time to work for the state?)
 
 Earlier in the day, PM Modi and BJP national president Amit Shah had led sharp attacks on the Akhilesh Yadav-led UP government and held it responsible for the deteriorating law and order conditions in UP. Denying the charge of a breakdown of law and order in UP, Akhilesh hit back at the BJP, asking the saffron party to look at president Amit Shah and state chief Keshav Prasad Maurya’s own “criminal pasts”. Akhilesh said, “People who are questioning law and order should admit charges under how many sections were slapped on them. Look at their national president and their state president...they were charged under so many sections.”
 
 The BJP has, of late, focused its attack on the ruling SP targeting the government for its failure to curb crime in the state. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, kicking off his campaign for the assembly elections in UP with a rally in Meerut on Saturday had lambasted the SP government for patronising “goonda raj” in the state.
 
 On Friday, BJP chief Amit Shah, addressing a public meeting in Meerut city, slammed the Akhilesh Yadav government on the issue of law and order. The murder of a shopkeeper by robbers in the area on Thursday was mentioned by Shah. The public meeting ended with a two-minute silence for Abhishek, who was shot dead outside his shop there on Thursday evening.
 
 Akhilesh said crime scene was worse in BJP ruled states and the party should first address law and order situation there. “Will BJP present crime data of Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh,” he said speaking at a show conducted by a news channel in Lucknow on Saturday.
 
 Rejecting BJP’s charge of goondaraj in SP-ruled UP, he said, “Fund allocation to states for police modernisation has stopped since formation of NITI Aayog. It is BJP’s government at the Centre and they should answer why,” he said.
 
 
