CHANDIGARH: A proactive approach to resolving the Jat reservation demand and a review of riot cases to weed out instances of “victimisation” were key elements in discussions between community leaders and  .

 The BJP chief’s outreach to Jat leaders from west UP — which goes to polls on Saturday — comes in the wake of the community’s reported disgruntlement over BJP’s alleged indifference to quotas, farm issues and riot cases.
 
 Shah promised that procedural wrangles and legal hurdles in the way of Jats accessing quotas would be resolved speedily after the Uttar Pradesh elections are over, adding that other parties would not bother to address the issues.
 
 The meeting on Wednesday with influential Jat leaders at the residence of steel minister   discussed the possibility of a new survey being conducted to gauge the community’s eligibility for backward caste quota.
 
 Sources said the Jat gathering, which saw several questions tossed at Shah, ended well with community leaders offering support to the party and raising “jaikaras (ovation)” and promising to convey BJP’s message.
 
 BJP members are keeping their fingers crossed, saying the test lies in the vote turning out for the party on February 11 amid sustained reports that the community could back veteran Jat leader Ajit Singh’s RLD.
 
 Sources, however, said the RLD factor was overblown despite the discomfiture in Jat ranks over Ajit Singh’s marginalisation and said the community would not act in a manner that delivers an advantage to SP-Congress.
 
 “SP’s goonda raj and protection to criminals from certain communities is the main grouse as far as Jats are concerned. They feel BJP has not done enough to address their victimisation at the hands of SP,” said a BJP member.
 
 This faultline, feel BJP members, is still working in the party’s favour. RLD’s Jat candidates may not get much votes as the community feels these will be wasted. If at all, RLD’s non-Jat candidates may get more support, it is felt.
 
 Despite law and order being a state subject, Jats in west UP have been annoyed that the central government has not come to their aid after assuming office, pointing out that the 2013 Muzaffarnagar riots were a strong reason for their backing the saffron party.
 
 The meeting took place in the backdrop of Shah taking urgent notice of the Jat reservation stir resurfacing in Haryana just ahead of the UP elections, with mob violence resulting in the death of a protester two weeks ago.
 
 Haryana chief minister   has held meetings with Jat leaders and managed to ensure that the agitation does not gather momentum before phase one of the UP elections.
 
 
