PUNE: The   (PMC) will move the   on Friday for removal of an “unauthorized fencing” on a prime land in Parvati it claims to own since 1979.

 “The civic administration will seek permanent injunction against the original owners of the land restraining them from taking any steps that will affect the PMC’s ‘possession’ of the land,” PMC’s law officer Ravindra Thorat told TOI on Thursday.
 
 The original owners, too, have claimed the possession of the land measuring around nine acres.
 
 The property, referred to as plot No. 490 (involving survey No. 32, 33A, 33B, 33C and 34A-2+1 in Parvati), has been the subject matter of a long-winding civil dispute dating back to 1979.
 
 As of now, the dispute is pending before the district court following an appeal filed by original owners after their suit was dismissed by a civil judge senior division (CJSD) in 2012. “The district court then ordered an interim stay on the CJSD’s decree and directed the status quo to be maintained,” Thorat said.
 
 Recently, the office of the deputy commissioner for land and estate,  , noticed a fencing erected around the land by a builder linked with the kin of a prominent politician. “This unauthorized structure is erected in violation of the status quo directed by the district court and, hence, we are moving the court for the removal of the fencing and seeking a permanent injunction,” said Thorat.
 
 According to Thorat, the PMC had received the disputed property from the government in 1979 as a surplus land under the Urban Land (Ceiling and Regulation) Act, 1976. The original owners had challenged this by moving revision pleas before the appellate authorities on the grounds that the land transfer to the PMC was made without giving them a hearing.
 
 “After the revision pleas were decided in the PMC’s favour, the original owners moved the Bombay high court and later the Supreme Court, which had remanded the matter back to the ULC competent authority. Once again, the matter was decided in the PMC’s favour and the original owners then filed the civil suit, which was decided in 2012 by the CJSD,” Thorat said.
 
 Subhash Jagtap, a co-opted member of the PMC, told TOI, “The standing committee is planning to start a nursing college on this land. It has made a mention of this collage in the civic budget 2017-18. I had raised the issue of occupancy in this plot in the PMC’s general body meeting because I came to know that a developer had fenced the area and was not allowing entry to anybody there.”
 
 (With inputs from Prasad Kulkarni)
 
