BENGALURU: Bengaluru's civic agencies appear to be diving into a new controversy .The   has started work on a skywalk across T Chowdiah Road, in front of   -exactly where a ramp of the controversial steel bridge is proposed to begin.
Ironically, neither the BBMP nor the  , whose brainchild the steel bridge along   is, have come together to figure out how their projects got intertwined at the drawing board stage itself. Incidentally, work on the steel bridge would also have started by now if the southern bench of the National Green Tribunal had not intervened and stayed the project. A BBMP official in charge of the skywalk said the structure is being built on the PPP model. On Friday, BBMP chopped a tree on the War Memorial side that was coming in the way of construction of the skywalk. Workers also erected steel pillars on both sides of the road during the day .
 
 A tree officer from BBMP said, “We were unwilling to give permission to cut trees for this skywalk for about a year, and finally agreed to cut one.It was a decade-old jamun tree.We've trimmed the branches of a few other trees that would hinder construction work, but those will grow back.“
 
 The drawings of the steel bridge released by BDA clearly show the ramp taking off at the junction of Raj Bhavan Road and Chowdiah Road, while the spot where the skywalk is proposed is close to where the ramp joins the flyover.
 
 However, a Palike engineer claimed: “We have consulted the BDA but are not sure when the steel flyover project begins.According to our calculation, the skywalk will not come in the way of the ramp for the steel bridge. But if the BDA raises concerns, we'll shift the location of the skywalk later.“
 
 The skywalk is being built on PPP basis, with the BBMP not spending a paisa from its pocket. A private stakeholder will build, operate and maintain the project for 30 years as per the contract, and earn revenue through advertisement boards, the engineer said.
 
 The skywalk, he said, was approved in the 2016-17 budget to facilitate safe crossing of walkers and schoolchildren coming to the planetarium and war memorial. And going by the BDA, the steel flyover was proposed in the 2014-15 budget by chief minister Siddaramaiah. Incidentally , the skywalk is coming up very close to another skywalk near Sophia School that is in a state of disuse most of the time.
 
 Priya Chetty-Rajagopal, a member of Citizens for Bengaluru which has taken citizens' battle against the steel flyover to the NGT, was one of the first to notice the tree cutting on Friday .
 
 “What sets my blood boiling is the constant failure of the government in planning infrastructure in tandem.Why was this skywalk suddenly so important when the subway linking the planetarium and Legislators' Home and Palace Road has been shut for years? The skywalk at Sophia's School is so high that pedestrians prefer to cross the road, risking their lives?“ she said.
 
 TIMES VIEW
 
 That the BBMP has started work on a skywalk at a location where a key structural element of the proposed steel flyover ­ which will be built by the BDA ­ could come up, reflects the utter lack of communication between the two civic agencies that are responsible for Bengaluru's administration. The confusion in executing key infrastructure projects aimed at solving the city's mobility problems, is indicative of the lack of a cohesive and foresighted plan.Moreover, such hastily executed projects will lead to more ad hoc solutions in the future, adding to the city's traffic woes.
 
