At a   in Lower Parel this Tuesday, an   vanished from the front row. "Where is he?" asked standup comic   on spotting the   of his favourite target. Peter had gone in search of food and was now slumping in a dark back row, pizza in hand. 

 By the time Sharma, who hails from Rajasthan, finished blazing through his riotous set-the many misfortunes of being bald at 32, valid arguments for having a peacock as a pet, and his dad's tendency to light a 'diya' before each of his shows-the crowd was giddy with laughter but Peter had dozed off sideways in his seat. Nearby, a non-Malayalee-who once sat through a Malayalam movie without subtitles-could empathize. Almost all of Sharma's jokes had been in Hindi. 
 
 Increasingly, it seems, foreigners are feeling lost at standup comedy nights in the city. The majority of Indian standup comics now perform in Hinglish, if not exclusively in Hindi. Even at a comedy club-that would once insist on comics performing strictly in English and where most jokes used to be about "rich people problems" as a comic recalls-it is now common to hear well-crafted, subtle ruminations on defunct geysers and other relatable "middle-class issues" in Hindi, both crude and lyrical. 
 
 Retail employee Gaurav Kapoor's priceless take on why some people should not follow their passion (he has been to enough karaoke nights) and advertising executive Kunal Kamra's poignant Hinglish dethroning of "Bombay" featuring a judgmental crow, encapsulated their unique comedy voices while making waves on YouTube recently. In English, the same jokes would lose some of their sting. "It would be weird if the cabbie spoke to you in English," says Kamra, who finds certain Hindi words such as "jhaag" (lather) innately funny.
 
 While the transition towards inserting Hindi phrases into English acts began years ago with the success of "first-generation comedians such as AIB and TVF" feels Sharma, the spurt in Hindi-language comedy owes to the viral fame of "second-generation" comedians such as Zakir Khan, who can fill rooms with his Lucknow-honed Hindi narrative about social pressures and the curly-haired Abhishek Upmanyu, whose Delhi-bred tongue fires through a patchwork of absurdities faster than the man who reads the mutual funds disclaimer. Unlike television's Hindi standup comedy-which is full of cheesy mimicry, generic sterotypes and double entendres--their material boasts a more insightful, mature texture that comes as much from watching international legends such as Louis CK and Bill Burr online as homegrown precedents. For instance, Kapoor idolises comics Vipul Goyal and Biswa Kalyan Rath for persistently honing their voice at open mic events while Kamra keenly laps up both Anuvab Pal's irony and Varun Grover's Hindi satirical style. 
 
 "My strategy is to let people talk," says 29-year-old Kamra, who once met a man who said: "Washing machine and fridge aren't dowry. They are gestures".
 
 In part, the changing profile of the audience, too, has caused the language switch. Standup is no longer perceived as an elitist art form, points out Dhruv Sheth, who heads talent management at OML, a live events and youth media company. At a Lower Parel mall, "people now choose whether to go for a movie or catch standup comedy," says Sheth. This is why, of late,   Abhijit Gangul finds the number of such lifestyle modifiers growing in his audience. Depending on the room, Ganguly-who would speak in "5% Hindi" while starting out in Delhi's standup circuit in 2010-now chooses to use "40% or more" of Hindi. "It adds a desi flavour," says the Mumbai-based Ganguly. "The impact of Hindi punchlines is instant so we use it even though it makes us lazy writers." 
 
 While comics such as Kenneth Sebastian and Daniel Fernandes perform predominantly in English, their room tends to be limited. "The most an English-language comedian can do in India is maybe 2000 people," says standup comic Anuvab Pal, adding, "unless you are Vir Das, then you're a genre on your own". However, the most a Hindi comedian can do is "unlimited", adds Pal, who believes people understand satire and irony in a language they're comfortable with. 
 
 While admitting that performing in Hindi invites offers from tier-II cities, Kapoor says this comes with its share of situations. After performing to a big, distracted silence at a small-town wedding, Kapoor had called the follow-up comic to say: "Dude, all the best. Suicide crowd." He now puts forth three conditions when asked to perform at weddings: stop serving for half an hour, ensure cluster seating and a decent mike.
 
  Their online popularity attracts a fair share of hecklers. Kapoor recalls receiving nasty comments for an innocent joke on the Royal Enfield ("one guy said great set and then went on to criticise me for making fun of the Bullet," he says) while Ganguly has gotten several online threats for a set on the national anthem. And inside an Amritsar club, two beefy men heckled him after his gig, saying : "Apni girlfriend ka naam toh batate jaa." 
 
 Knowing your audience is key, believes Pal, who was about to begin a joke on a famous English movie once in Jodhpur and realized the audience won't know the movie. Pal has also seen a Hindi comedian get a silent response in Coimbatore because they only wanted English. In fact, Kamra recalls corporate shows in which he was asked to stick to English "as there are foreign delegates in the audience." However, "invariably," says Kamra,"those foreign delegates turn out to be Indians staying abroad." When he does finds real foreigners in the audience though, Kamra requests comedy club managers to refund their ticket money. "It's not their fault that they didn't know my language," says Kamra. However, once he was suprised to encounter a South Mumbai resident who told him that she could not follow his jokes as they were in Hindi and went on to call them "crass". "Then don't come to comedy shows just chill with your friends," shot back Kamra.
 
 Unlike TV's Hindi standup comedy-which is full of cheesy mimicry and generic stereotypes -their material boasts a more insightful, mature texture that comes from watching international legends as well as homegrown precedents online
 
 
