HYDERABAD: Experts are shocked after an unusually high prevalence of   --   caused by   (HCV) -- among 10%-20% population was detected in several pockets in city and districts.

 Though a random screening of 4,783 people spread over 22 places in six districts, including Hyderabad was carried out between January and June, 2016, a high prevalence rate of HCV infection was found in dozens of villages in Mahbubnagar district, said city-based Save the   (STLF) that carried out the survey.
 
 For instance, Aiza town in Mahbubnagar topped the list with HCV prevalence rate of 20.34% when STLF found 48 of the 236 people they screened to be positive.
 
 “This is a serious cause for concern as the chronic HCV infection affects only 1% population in India,” said Dr K S Somasekhar Rao, gastroenterologist and founder of STLF, which carried out the study.
 
 Though HCV is curable, if patients are left untreated even after getting diagnosed, they are sure to get either liver cancer or liver cirrhosis. However, diagnosis of the disease itself is tricky as the HCV remains asymptomatic for as long as 15 years but doctors get the hint only when patient lands up with liver cirrhosis.
 
 “The HCV infection can be confirmed with a simple blood test called anti-HCV costing Rs 500 but the treatment may cost up to Rs 90,000 for three months, making it unaffordable for most. Among the infected, the male to female ratio stood at 65:35 respectively,” added Dr Somasekhar, who led the study.
 
 Experts say there could be several factors for HCV’s high prevalence rate in rural areas, including flawed blood-banking system. “Reuse of unsterilised needles, syringes and surgical instruments by quacks, unprotected sex with multiple partners and intravenous drug abuse,” said Dr Ananda Kumar, surgical gastroenterologist and liver transplant surgeon at  . In fact, the two most important routes for HCV infection to spread are said to be faulty blood screening techniques in rural blood banks and unprotected sex in general .
 
