Alex Mathew

 
 My first performance as a drag queen was at a QAMI ( ) event that was held in late 2014 in Bengaluru. There was a time when I'd sing songs by Tina Turner and Madonna wearing a snazzy jacket and hat at QAMI events but the audience just wouldn't get why a `guy' was singing songs by female pop artistes.That is when I hit upon the idea to perform in drag instead. In September 2014,  , the sariclad Malayali `lady' who sings English songs with a pronounced Malayali lilt was born.
 
 When I started out as a drag performer, I had no clue as to where I was headed. My struggles were more internal ­ it was about me getting comfortable with who I was, and about getting my family to accept me. I started it because I wanted to have fun and satiate my need to perform. These days, the struggle is more external ­ finding venues that are open to host performances by Mayamma, or finding crowds to watch her perform. But in terms of opportunities to perform, the going has been good so far. Opportunities that have come my way in the last year include invitations to talk at Manipal Institute of Communication, give a TEDX talk at Delhi's Sri Guru  , besides being featured in sari campaigns for eBay and AJIO Life. I have played a drag queen in  's play The  , I also hosted and performed at The Humming Tree's New Year's eve party this year as Mayamma. I danced to Madhuri Dixit's hits and the crowds just loved it.
 
 What's heartwarming about these opportunities, however, is that they validate Mayamma as a legitimate persona. Today, my drag queen act is not for mere entertainment. I am not one for carrying placards and hollering protests, so, the way I see it, Mayamma is a symbol of gender equality, and every time I walk on the stage dressed as a woman, it is my way of telling people to be comfortable with their sexuality.
 
 The reactions I get from the audiences are largely positive. I have young kids tell me that they look up to me. At the TEDX talk I gave, the front row that had the college management seemed disinterested, but the kids were rooting for me. After the talk, the girls gave me a standing ovation. I had a second year medical student telling me, “you inspire me to be who I am'.
 
 Women generally tend to be supportive of my drag queen persona. They tell me that they just feel this need to support transwomen. I have had women coming up to me and sharing their problems. I have had a lot of them complimenting me on my saris, and makeup! It is quite unlike the West where transgenders and drag queens diss women.
 
 With men, however, it's tricky. When they see a man dressed in a sari, they don't know how to react because it's almost like am making them question their sexuality. There's this one instance I remember, in Mumbai, where I was shooting for a campaign, and I could see the bouncers of the pub making fun of me because I was dressed in a sari. I just smiled it off and continued with my perfor mance.Later, after the shoot, I had a guard come up to me and tell me that “my performance was kickass“. My battle is won every time I have people who first jeer me, later tell me that they love me.
 
 Where does Bengaluru fit into all this? I began my journey as a drag queen here. It is one of the few cities in India that encourages drag queen performances, and has certainly helped me in my journey as Mayamma so far. Not just that, it is Bengaluru's open culture that allows me to be both a drag queen and an out-and-proud gay man.
 
 As told to Mahalakshmi Prabhakaran
 
 (In this column, people record their impressions of life in Bengaluru)
 
