NEW DELHI: The   will take a call on Opposition’s demand for postponement of the presentation of   till March 8 when the last phase of polls in UP is scheduled. 

 “We have received the representation and started deliberations on it. We were extremely busy in chalking out a schedule for the five states in consultation with large number of stake holders for conducting a smooth and peaceful elections in the five states. We will take time to deliberate on the representations seeking postponement of budget,” Chief Election Commissioner Nasim Zaidi said.“We will give our decision in due course,” he said and refused to prescribe a deadline for taking decision on the representations. 
 
 Opposition parties have written to the poll watchdog as also President Pranab Mukherjee seeking to restrain the government from presenting the budget on February 1 on the ground that the Modi government might use it to tip scales in BJP’s favour by offering sops which are forbidden under the model  . The political parties have cited past instances when the budget was postponed because of elections. However, finance minister Arun Jaitley defended the government’s decision to stick to the plan to present the Budget on February 1. 
 
 “This is a Constitutional requirement,” Jaitley said when reporters asked him about the Opposition’s demand. He described the postponement of Union Budget to March five years ago as an exception. “This has not been the tradition. Interim Union budget is presented just before the Lok Sabha elections. No one has stopped that. Even in 2014, interim budget was presented just days before LS polls were announced,” said Jaitley. 
 
 The Opposition has read motive in the government’s decision to bring forward the presentation of budget to February 1 from the last day of the month, saying that the move was influenced by the government’s plan to help BJP in poll. The government, however, has justified the change saying that it was meant to ensure that the spending on welfare and other schemes begin right from April 1, the first day of the financial year: something which was not possible so far because the budget would be presented on the last day of February. 
 
 Attorney General Mukul Rohatgi says budget will be presented as scheduled. “Union Budget is a constitutional work. It cannot be shifted from the scheduled date of presentation in Parliament. It involves grants for several ongoing schemes and projects as well as functioning of several crucial elements that keep the country and its governance running. How can Budget be postponed? At best the Union government may take a decision not to announce any sops for the five states which are going to polls in February and March,” he told TOI. 
 
 Significantly, a senior leader of the Congress also criticised the demand for postponement of Union Budget because of elections. “Union Budget is a constitutional requirement. The country requires it. Politics is one thing but national interest is quite another. Several welfare schemes are running all over the country. Can these be stopped because of elections to five states? It is for the EC to take a view which announcement in a budget violated the code of conduct. But, that does not mean the Union government would be required to present a vote on account and defer full budget,” he said on condition of anonymity. 
 
 TOI spoke to three ex-CECs and none favoured postponement of Union budget because of elections. N Gopalaswami and H S Brahma were categorical that elections cannot hold up national fiscal policy announcement. But S Y Quraishi put a caveat - announcing populist measures in the budget would disrupt the level playing field as it could influence approximately one-fifth of the country’s electorate based in the five states. 
 
 Gopalaswami said: “Given that Assembly polls in some state or the other are held at regular intervals through the five-year term of the government of India, it cannot hold up important national policy announcements everytime a state goes to elections. It is but natural that schemes to be announced in the budget will benefit the people in poll-bound states. So be it. But, this anomaly only underlines the need for simultaneous polls to Lok Sabha and Assemblies.” 
 
 Brahma agreed with Gopalaswami on both counts and asked “why should Union budget exercise be put on hold for polling in a few states?” Quraishi said Opposition parties would not be faulted for seeking postponement of budget as they fear government might announce populist measures to sway voters towards the ruling party.
 
