According to data released by the   on Sunday, Gurgaon was ranked the most polluted city. Keeping   in mind, which might make the air quality even worse, the Gurgaon administration has proposed to keep the odd-even scheme as an option to reduce air pollution in the city. While the administration is yet to take a decision on the implementation of the scheme, the residents of the Millennium City already stand divided on the issue. While some are open to the idea, others feel that this might only be a temporary solution. 

  
  The dense   that covered the city after Diwali last year
 
 
  
 
 Adil Nargolwala, a resident of  , says, "Gurgaon has zero public transport and this might create chaos. What the administration needs to do is to ensure no or minimal use of fire crackers this year."
 
 Adil adds, "The administration should not give licences to the shops selling fire crackers. Schools should conduct programs to educate children and their parents. The Millennium City is full of condominium housing, they can also pass an administrative order making it illegal for residents to light crackers."
 
 
  
  Taking a cue from Delhi’s implementation of the car-rationing plan, the Gurgaon administration has kept the scheme as an option to reduce pollution levels
 
 
  
 
 Paarkhi Mehrotra, a resident of sector 33, says, "I would imagine more inconvenience because of the demand for cabs. Also, I am not sure if Gurgaon has sufficient traffic control to monitor this scheme. I definitely don’t think that this will have an impact on pollution though, given the prevalence of heavy vehicles and construction sites in the city."
 
 
  
  A Civil Defence volunteer offers red roses to an odd-even violator in Delhi last year 
 
  
 
 Gaurav Makkar, a resident of Sohna Road, says, "It's an ambitious attempt and we should give it a try as it may not help to bring down the overall air pollution level but, it will help in reducing pollution through vehicles. The number of vehicles is far too high, the scheme will help with traffic congestion and hence lesser pollution from the vehicle spewing emissions in the air, which will help reduce air pollution. Also, Gurgaon has its own Rapid Metro, which is now extended till the Golf Course Extension Road, which is highly under utilised. The odd-even scheme can push people out of their comfort zone to use public transport."
 
  
  
  
 
 Smriti Chhabra, a resident of Sector 56, asks, "Last year, in the days after Diwali, we experienced dense smog across the region with extremely high pollution levels and unbreathable conditions. The authorities had put a ban on burning of waste and crop stubble and also a ban was imposed on fireworks. How are we planning to control it this year? Are fireworks going to be restricted?"
 
  
 
 Vidya Deshpande, a resident of DLF Phase 3, says, "Odd-even didn't help in Delhi, it won’t help in Gurgaon either. We need real solutions, the need is to regulate the timings of construction sites (to reduce dust pollution); have more e-rickshaws on the road; improve urban connectivity with more buses and also encourage employers to use carpooling."
 
 
