GOA: Besides the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress having an edge in Bardez and Sattari, respectively, political pundits say there is no clear-cut picture as to which faction will emerge victorious in most constituencies in  .

 The BJP’s clean sweep of Bardez was instrumental in the party attaining an absolute majority during the 2012 polls. And while it appears that the BJP will only enhance its performance in the taluka this time around, it is in Pernem, Bicholim and Tiswadi that the battle between the ruling party and the opposition is likely to be intense. 
 
 In Valpoi, a constituency in the Sattari taluka, Congress candidate Vishwajit Rane has the edge over BJP’s Satyavijay Naik, MGP’s Vijay Gaonkar, and others, what with the anti-incumbency sentiment against the BJP working largely in his favour, analysts say. 
 
 In nearby Poriem, however, Vishwajit’s namesake has been posing a challenge of sorts to the Valpoi MLA’s father and one of Goa’s longest serving legislators, Pratapsingh Rane. Yet, it remains to be seen if the BJP’s candidate for Poriem, Vishwajeet Krishnarao Rane, will dent the senior legislator’s prospects this time around. 
 
 “The people of Poriem need change. But, it is hard to say if they will bring in change,” a political commentator points out.
 
 In the Bicholim taluka the situation is different. Going by the current inputs, BJP is in a better position in the taluka, political observes say. However, in Sakhali, BJP candidate Pramod Sawant is facing a tough fight from Congress candidate Dharmesh Saglani and Goa Suraksha Manch (GSM) candidate Suresh Amonkar. MGP has consolidated its position in Bicholim, while the BJP grapples for a foothold since the 2012 polls. However, the BJP candidate Rajesh Patnekar could just emerge as the dark horse even as political analysts deem MGP candidate Naresh Sawal the likely front-runner in the electoral fray. In Mayem, it is the BJP that has a slight edge over Congress and the fight between BJP candidate Pravin Zantye and Congress candidate Santosh Kumar Sawant is set to be tough.
 
 In both the constituencies of the Pernem taluka - Pernem and Mandrem - BJP is facing a tough fight against the Congress and the MGP. In chief minister Laxmikant Parsekar’s constituency of Mandrem, it is Parsekar’s former colleague, Congress candidate Dayanand Sopte who is putting up a tough competition, while in Pernem the face-off is between forest minister Rajendra Arlekar and former panchayat minister and MGP candidate Manohar Azgaonkar. Who will win is difficult to predict, say political pundits. 
 
 The BJP is hopeful of coming back to power on the strength of their hold on the Bardez taluka with a weak and divided opposition fuelling their dreams of winning most of the seven seats that make up the constituency. In Tivim, it is a straight fight between BJP MLA Kiran Kandolkar and former tourism minister Nilkanth Halarnkar of Congress, but BJP is hoping to emerge trumps. Since 1999, the Mapusa constituency has given its mandate to deputy chief minister Francis D’Souza. This time, however, D’Souza faces tough competition in the form of MGP’s Vinod ‘Balu’ Phadke. In Siolim, art and culture minister Dayanand Mandrekar is struggling to retain the seat, while in Saligao tourism minister Dilip Parulekar has a better chance at retaining the seat in the light of a multi-pronged battle that is likely to split the votes in his favour. His toughest competitors are Congress’ Agnelo Fernandes and Goa Forward Party’s (GFP) Jayesh Naik.
 
 In Calangute, it is a straight fight between BJP MLA Michael Lobo and Congress candidate Joseph Sequeira, both of whom are strong in the constituency. The only factor likely to work in Lobo’s favour is the development work he undertook last year, say political analysts. Last time, BJP had won all the seats in Bardez, except for Porvorim. This time, all eyes are on the Porvorim constituency, where a neck-and-neck fight is laid out between BJP candidate Guruprasad Pawaskar and independent MLA Rohan Khaunte. 
 
 Of the five constituencies of Tiswadi - Panaji, Taleigao, St Cruz, St Andre and Cumbharjua - BJP is likely to, for the first time, win three seats. The last polls saw Panaji and St Andre notched in the BJP tally. This time, however, it is the seats of Taleigao, Cumbharjua and Panaji that the saffron party has better chances of winning, say political analysts. 
 
 Taleigao strongman Atanasio ‘Babush’ Monserrate has stepped into Panaji, which has hitherto been defence minister Manohar Parrikar’s turf. Even as a multi-pronged battle for the seat played out in the days leading to elections, Ponnjekars remained silent on the subject of who will win the capital city’s seat. 
 
 In Taleigao, Atanasio’s turf, his wife MLA Jennifer lost the edge to BJP candidate Dattaprasad Naik as her husband was unable to devote time to campaign in the constituency. While BJP is likely to benefit from the anti-incumbency wave against Jennifer, AAP could just gather the support of the silent voter. 
 
 In Cumbharjua, political commentators opine that there is no tough opponent for the BJP candidate Pandurang Madkaikar. 
 
 But, in St Andre, the multi-corner fight has titled the balance in favour of Congress candidate Francis Silveira. They rule out making any predictions for St Cruz as there are nine candidates in the fray for the seat. However, independent candidate Rodolfo Fernandes has the support of the BJP workers, says political analysts.
 
