HYDERABAD: Multiple disruptions were reported on   within the   on Monday, following the heavy showers. While several train services were cancelled, many were either redirected or rescheduled. According to railway officials the disturbances were a result of water flowing above the danger level on bridge 588 running between   in Rayagada and Titlagarh Section. 

 Given the current situation, officials said that the repercussions of Monday's rainfall will be felt for the next three days. Many trains scheduled till July 20, they added, have been cancelled as a precautionary measure. As on Monday, the authorities cancelled four trains, while seven were diverted and two were rescheduled. One of the trains was short terminated.
 
 "As of now, the operations of at least 14 trains have been disturbed. The impact of the rain will be seen for at least next two to three days," said M  , chief public relations officer, South Central Railway.
 
 The trains that were cancelled were those running between Bilaspur-Tirupati and Hazur Sahib Nanded-Sambalpur stations and scheduled between July 17 and July 20.
 
 With more rains expected to hit the city over the next few days, officials fear that the operations of a larger number of trains might get adversely impacted, and thus force many passengers to cancel their travel plans for the time being.
 
 "Couple of my bulk booking clients who had scheduled journeys this week, have cancelled their tickets for now as they fear that they might get stranded at railway stations. Even the number of inquiries have gone down considerably as people are currently in the wait and watch mode," said  , a ticketing agent from the city.
 
 Another passenger, who was going to visit his family in Delhi, has postponed his plan after his train got rescheduled. "I was supposed to be home for a family get-together for my niece's birthday on July 19. But my train got rescheduled as so I decided to put it off for later. Anyway, because of the change in schedule I would have reached my destination at least 10 hours late," said Karthik V, who was supposed to board a train from the  
 
