COIMBATORE: Maheshwaran B*, a 27-year-old   in the city, gets caught twice or thrice in a month by the traffic police for not possessing driver's badge. Maheshwaran blames the   (RTO) for not willing to issue him the driver's badge, citing he doesn't have a  . 

 A school dropout, Maheswaran can read and write Tamil. "I can read English to an extent too. But the logic that the   pose is unacceptable. I am the sole bread winner of my family. Do they expect me to sit and prepare for the Class 10 exams while I'm supposed to earn a living," asked Maheshwaran. 
 
 A native of Tirunelveli, Maheswaran ends up paying 200-300 as fine every time road transport officials catch him and 500 when he was caught by the traffic police. "I earn 300-400 per day. If I am caught by the RTO or traffic police, I end up shelling my day's earnings," he said. "Some traffic cops understand our problem. But, there are a few who harass us for the sake of it," said Maheshwaran. 
 
 Like Maheshwaran, there are 25% auto-rickshaw drivers who are struggling to get a driver's badge. Another driver from Ettimadai,   N* has been driving an auto for 16 years now. "The problem is that many of us have become auto drivers after working as a cleaner or a painter. I started working as a cleaner for a truck, and slowly learnt auto rickshaw driving," said the 49-year-old father of two girls. 
 
 Suresh Kumar has been trying to get a driver's badge for the last eight years. "For my age, I cannot afford to give away my earnings and sit for the Class 8 exam. The RTO should understand our problem. As far as I know to drive an auto, read and recognize traffic signs, I should be allowed to give a driver's badge," said the auto driver. "Also, when the RTO officials do not intend to give us the badge, then why do they give us a license," he asked.
 
 An RTO official said the rule for issuing a badge for transport vehicles is that an applicant should have passed Class 8. "This amendment was made in the Motor Vehicles Act long time back. This rule was introduced for the simple reason that drivers should be able to have basic reading, writing and comprehending abilities when they travel to other states," the RTO official said. "We have also suggested the drivers to take the class 8 exams through tutorial college. But, we don't know why they are reluctant," he added. 
 
  (* name changed) 
 
