Reports of   (MSRTC) bus conductors denying entry to pass holder students have been floating around in city. A few angry students of  , who were either denied entry in the bus or asked to board last, also gheraoed   officers recently. City students are constantly complaining that the number of busses plying in city is inadequate. In the wake of such incidences,   Times speaks to students as well as MSRTC officers to know the ground reality.

  Nashik-Pune Highway, Nashik-Mumbai Highway and Nashik-Indore Highway have few medical and engineering colleges at Sinnar, Ghoti and Adgaon. However, it is extremely difficult for students of these colleges to get a bus for their daily commute. “Bus conductors either don’t halt at our college stops or they didn’t let us in if we have pass. Yet somehow we can manage going to college by boarding a bus from main stand. However, returning from college to city is a herculean task because no bus halts there. We have to rely on private vehicles,” says Shirish Jadhav, a student of Sir Vishveshwaraiah Engineering College.
 
  
 
 
  Amidst all the complaints from students, MSRTC officials are assuring that they are doing everything in their power to facilitate students. “Yes, there was an instance of Sandeep Foundation students complaining about unavailability of buses. However, there are many buses on this particular route. In fact, few of the buses are dedicated only to students who go to colleges on that route,” informs  , divisional controller of MSRTC. “Secondly, the students object that conductors don’t let them in if they have daily pass. It’s not true. Yes, sometimes the conductors ask students to wait till other passengers are onboard but it’s a crowd management technique. These buses are usually of long route, but the students get off in merely 10 minutes. If they are allowed to board early, then after a while the whole bus gets empty and we have bear losses. By allowing other passengers to enter first we ensure that there will be minimum losses, but students are never denied boarding the bus,” she further adds.
 
 
