Nagpur: Going purely by statistics, the free education scheme at private schools under the Right to Education Act (RTE) seems to be faltering in Nagpur district. Since the start of free RTE admissions in 2012, 43.61% of available seats have remained vacant because of no eligible takers. As per state’s directive, these vacant seats cannot be opened up for the general paying public, meaning a loss a revenue for schools and more importantly, a very likely increase in fee for the rest to cover the deficit. Shahid Sharif, founder of NGO RTE Action Committee said, “Since 2012, total 15,521 seats in district have been vacant and which defeats the purpose of free and fair education.” The district’s education officer Dipendra Lokhande did not respond to TOI’s calls but his subordinates say the vacancy is a technical and ‘aspirational’ issue.  “It is technical issue because in 2015-16 the software put both pre-primary and primary as entry level points for admission. This meant that for some schools the number of available seats doubled -- on paper. But that issue has been sorted out now. The issue is also aspirational because parents want to admit their children in top private schools where they would not have been able to afford their education. So even if in their locality there are two other schools, parents will forgo that option,” a source said.  Another source in the department said that in the 2017-18 academic session things will begin to change. “The distance criteria has been relaxed which may lead to an increase in admissions. Earlier the child had to reside within 3km of the school but now others can also apply against vacant seats,” said the source. School principals that TOI spoke to said the government needs to rethink its policy of keeping seats vacant if no eligible candidate is found. “Every vacant seat means shortfall in revenue which ultimately will have to be passed on to the 75% general category students not covered under RTE. It is unfair and even we feel bad about it but the government rules are such that none of us can do anything about it,” she said.  Sharif said, “The government can relax some of its rules and allow poor children from other localities to take admission. Also there is a date of birth criteria and many kids miss it by 10-15 days. We believe this should also be reconsidered because it makes no sense for a child to fall behind by a year in school just because him missing the cut by a week.”