ALLAHABAD: Smiles are writ large on the faces of people of more than a dozen villages including Sonvarsa, Juhi, Ramgarh and adjoining areas after  , being revived and restored by them through shram-daan, are now filled with rain water in hilly terrain of Shankargarh. 

 Villagers, after joining hands under the banner of  , had worked tirelessly for more than four months, managed to revive and restore the old and ancient ponds to collect rain water before monsoon. They are now successful in their endeavour. 
 
 Noted social activist and convenor of Bakulahi River Rejuvenation Campaign Samaj Shekhar told TOI, “More than two dozen big ponds in Sonvarsa, Juhi, Chanaura, Bal Kushun, Derva, Gaura, etc in Allahabad and Pratapgarh districts are filled with rain water." He further added “the villagers with the help of local administration were working to restore the ancient ponds for the last five years and their efforts have now yielded the positive results." 
  
 Pradhan of Sonvarsa village, MP Singh said, “Villager's efforts have finally yielded positive results to search extinct ponds, revive and restore them and once they are filled with rain water, they would surely help to increase the ground water level." “Efforts are under way to restore more old ponds,” he said.
 
 “We have sought help from the volunteers of Bakulahi River Rejuvenation Campaign (BRRC) to find out water resources (ancient ponds) in the hills of Shankargarh," said pradhan of Juhi village, Bimal Kumar, adding “after forming Jal Jan Vikas bhiyan, people have united themselves for a novel cause and even sought administration's help also to revive and use the ponds as water reservoirs. The objective was to collect the rain water in an attempt to check the depleting ground water level. 
 
 Shekhar told TOI, "These villagers have made up their mind to restore all the natural resources of water in the region, and for that they first took up cleaning of ancient ponds in April month with the help of local administration."
 
 He also claimed that the administration, while appreciating the efforts of villagers, has offered a helping hand to the villagers willing to restore old ponds and the ancient ponds in the area that often faces water crisis during summers.
 
 Villagers claimed that the ancient pond near Ramgarh Dham, which is the main source of water for them, is also filled with rain water which too dried up in previous summers.
 
 The work in hilly terrain of Shankargarh was started four months back and after a series of meetings and panchayat representatives, it was decided to make their endeavour successful.
 
 Villagers, meanwhile, said that some old wells in the area have too got water level up. However, villagers have now taken up water conservation campaign and even taking door-to-door campaign for the same.
 
 Earlier, during the rainy season, the entire rain water was absorbed by the jungle and hilly area which fed the small seasonal river or went in waste. But since the old and ancient ponds are filled with water, the ground water level would surely be increasing to a major extent.
 
 CDO, Allahabad, Samuel Paul N said that ponds are being maintained by local administration in each and every block to collect rain water which would help to recharge ground water during monsoon. He also informed that new ponds are being dug up in each of 1400 villages of the district under MANREGA to collect rain water. 
 
