NEW DELHI: India would likely auction its future airport contracts to private operators after setting fixed tariffs, potentially enhancing the number of serious bidders and cushioning passengers against arbitrary increases in user fees.
 
  “Airport charges are revenues for airport operators and any change in it impacts their top-line. We would fix that in advance and make the bidders aware of it so that there are no uncertainties or surprises for the airport operators as well as passengers using the airport.
  
  In this case, charges will be pre-determined, and (the move) would require a change in the   (AERA) Act,” said a senior government official, who did not want to be identified. The aviation ministry has initiated the process to amend the AERA Act. AERA is the economic regulator for Indian airports, and has the authority to fix tariffs at all major airports that handle at least 1.5 million passengers annually.
  
  The proposed change will also shield passengers from any increases in user fees after the management of an airport shifts to private ownership, another official added. A   (UDF) was introduced at the country’s two biggest aviation hubs, New Delhi and Mumbai, after privatisation, increasing the user charges at the airports. Pre-set tariffs would shield passengers from any such new charges after privatisation.
  
  Sources said that a meeting between AERA and aviation ministry official were held this week, and the economic regulator for airports has approved the proposal.
  
  Analysts have welcomed the move, saying this would not only help get sensible bids, but also shield passengers from any surprise charges later.
  
  “It would help the government get bids from a large number of serious players. Any transparency and clarity in airport projects would help bidders plan much better and I would want the government to bring as much clarity in bids as possible.
  A large number of international players were interested in the Navi Mumbai airport project but they did not bid, primarily, because of less clarity on bids post the award,” said  , CEO of  , an   advisory.
  
  Sethi also added that an arrangement, where charges are known beforehand, would ensure that there were no additions after the awarding of the contract.
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  The way ahead is to have time-bound project implementation, including online monitoring, to keep costs within estimates.
  
  The priority needs to be no-frills airports, which would shore up air connectivity.
  
  Now that the monetary authority, the RBI, is into explicit inflation targeting, it should be possible to design proactive policy for airports that is able to factor-in price rise during project implementation.
  
  It would boost investor comfort and step-up funds flow into what is projected to be the second or third largest aviation market globally in about a decade.
  
  
  
  
