KOLHAPUR: The boys’ hostels in the campus of the  , Kolhapur (SUK) are all set for a stunning makeover with a new garden, freshly-painted walls and a new   with the improved   with the help of   

 The hostel entry from the upcoming semester will be restricted to the official students only and their thumb impressions will mark their presence with the help of biometric machines.
 
 G B Kolekar, chief rector of the SUK boys’ hostels, said the hostels have been given a makeover using resources made for it and the funds from the varsity. “A biometric machine will soon be installed in the single entry point gate of the university, which will facilitate a stricter security measure for the hostel. We already have three biometric machines installed for three hostel messes in the boys hostel premises, he said.
 
 He added that all the rooms can accommodate two students per room; however, if both the residing students give consent, a third student can be allowed to stay in that room. Regular hostel fee of that semester is charged from such students. This has resulted in generating Rs 4 lakh fee and around 100-150 students have benefited.
 
 “Earlier, we used to have many students staying illegally in the hostels without any fee or authority. As a way out, from last year onwards, we have let them stay in the few hostel vacant rooms by charging Rs 25 per day. This has resulted in generating funds of Rs 1.02 lakh,” he said.
 
 According to Kolekar, the fresh hand of paint to the hostels and the premises is being done from separate university funds. The availablity of guest rooms and temporary stay has resulted in responsible behaviour from the students too. They keep their premises clean and use the resources wisely.
 
 The garden built in the hostel premises will be voluntarily maintained by a few hostel students. “These students are water the plants and maintaining and looking after them. We are going to appoint a separate person for the same from May 1, but students have taken it up on their own,” he said. 
 
 Sanket Patil, first year MA Economics student, said the facilities in the hostels are more than satisfactory and they cannot wait to return once the vacation gets over. “From the water facility to the painted walls, almost everything has changed in the hostel premises. The biometric machines in the mess will keep a check on its use for that particular day,” he said.
 
 While Vaibhav Khot, a M Com first year student, said the new hostels did not any longer bear the look of a typical university hostel. “From the infrastructural facilities to the beautification of the buildings, the hostels can easily give a run for their money to the private hostels in the city. With the annual charge coming to somewhere Rs 3,500, it cannot get more affordable than this,” he said.
 
 After the pathetic condition of the boys’ hostels was highlighted in 2013, the SUK’s management council had given nod to carry out pending repairing works by sanctioning Rs 40 lakh. The university had then set a deadline of six months for executing works such as water-proofing and electric re-wiring and improving basic facilities.
 
 However, in 2015, the three hostels continued to be plagued with open electricity chambers, filthy water, broken windows, bed bugs, parasites, water leakages and superficial cleanliness.
 
