DEHRADUN: For many book lovers in Dehradun, a major reason for visiting Natraj Booksellers, one of the oldest bookshops in the  , is the chance to have an interaction with its 68-year-old proprietor  , who is always seen sporting a big smile and is ever-ready with suggestions on which books to pick up. Even though booksellers -- and books -- have been facing increasing competition from the online medium, Arora has been spiritedly fighting to ensure that physical books remain, and that more people take to reading. He recently initiated a campaign to promote book reading, as part of which he has been visiting institutions, colleges and schools throughout the city as well as other parts of the country.
 
  Having spent over 50 years as a bookseller, Arora says that the magic of holding a book in one’s hand can never be replaced and he intends to keep campaigning to get this message across to future generations. “If we can develop a culture of book reading, all the good things can be attained in no time. Female foeticide, road rage, honking, cleanliness -- all these issues can be tackled head on. Book readers are intelligent minds who are always part of the solution. In fact, the entire face of the country can be changed if more and more youngsters take up the habit of reading.”
  
  Recently, the sexagenarian was conferred the prestigious ‘Golden Award’ by the Federation of Publishers’ and Booksellers' Association in India, given to only a select few who have been in the publishing business for over five decades. Arora comes from an illustrious family that has been in the books business for almost 100 years. His grandfather Narain Das, who established a book shop at Ferozepur Cantt in 1923, is considered by many as the pioneer of the book trade in India. Arora’s father   fell in love with the Doon valley and subsequently established Natraj Booksellers & Publishers here. Arora joined the family business in 1966 and says that he is lucky to be part of “one of the most rewarding professions.”
  
  On the challenges faced by the trade, he says that there is currently a bad phase for the industry but “we will weather the storm.” “I am quite optimistic on that front. In fact, our bookshop’s tagline is ‘There is no such thing as too many books.’ I believe readers will always want to buy real books from their favourite bookstore. Browsing through the shelves, flipping through a book’s pages and having a discussion about it with the bookseller are things that discerning readers value.”
  
  Incidentally, Arora's bookstore is the only 'green book shop' in the country, which was rechristened with that name in 1990. It houses the maximum titles under one roof pertaining to ecology, nature, wildlife, forestry, climate change and disaster management.
