Raghu Dixit, who has composed   for Happy New Year, is ecstatic about the film’s release and says that he is glad to make a comeback in Sandalwood with it. “It is a very neatly made film. I am very proud to be a part of   and cannot thank   enough for letting me be his teammate on this one. I am glad that I have made a comeback in the industry with this film.”
Raghu says that he, as  , and the rest of the team have ‘invested’ a lot in the movie on a personal front. “As a music composer, when there is enough scope to compose songs as well as background score, then every department contributes equally. Right from the cinematographer to the editor, and me, everyone got involved in this film on a personal level.”
 The film’s music has a lot to offer on different levels, be it folk, Carnatic classical, acoustic and some musical elements from Bangkok, keeping in mind the five different stories in the movie. “Keeping in mind the characters, we had to use different elements in the film. Each story has its own sound design. For example, Vijay Raghavendra’s character as a constable is simple and his story is based in Bengaluru, so we’ve used a lot of local elements for his story. On the other hand, for Diganth and Shrusti’s story, we’ve used sounds from Bangkok and pop elements,” he says and adds, “It’s beautiful how all the songs have been used in the film. Personally, I feel that all the songs have justified their presence in the film. The beauty of the songs have been matched very nicely with visuals.”
 Praising the star cast of the film, Raghu says that ‘this is a one-of-its-kind film.’ “The star cast is brilliant and everyone has acted so well, it is tough not to like this movie, which is so true, honest and heartwarming,” he adds. 
 When asked about working with Pannaga, Raghu breaks into a smile and says, “Working with Pannaga was a joy; he knew exactly what he wanted. He is a great friend. I didn’t even know the story initially. All I knew was that it was Pannaga’s film and that I wanted to be a part of it. Very rarely do you see directors with conviction and I saw that in him. His brief about the film was spot on. His theatre background came very handy while shooting the film. With Happy New Year, everything was on schedule. Unlike some of the other films that I have been a part of that never took off, this film was right on track. It’s been a great run,” he adds.
 
 Sandra.Fernandes@timesgroup.com
 
