NEW DELHI:  , the brain behind the record 25,000 promotions awarded to   personnel over the past six months, will now helm the force. The 1985-batch IPS officer, who earlier launched the anti-stalking and anti-obscene call cells to ensure women’s safety in the capital, is expected to have one of the longest tenures as the Delhi Police chief. 

 A recipient of the President’s Police Medal for distinguished service, Patnaik has been serving as the special commissioner (vigilance and administration) in Delhi Police and will take charge from outgoing commissioner   on Tuesday morning. He is due to retire in January 2020.
 
 Patnaik’s reputation of being an efficient, honest and non-controversial officer and a hard task master made him a favourite in the panel of three officers and helped him beat two immediate seniors in the race, said sources.
 
 Known for his eye for details and crisp observations, Patnaik is a firm believer in action and maintenance of discipline. As a young field-level officer puts it, “Patnaik’s leadership will mean return to the basics and emphasis on no-frills policing.” Patnaik, originally from Odisha, seems to believe that the only approach is “boots on the ground” and is also focused on delivering professional satisfaction to every personnel.
 
 His list of achievements is long. As IG of Special Protection Group, Patnaik had chalked out the security plan for the lone train journey ever undertaken by a Prime Minister when Atal Bihari Vajpayee went on it in 2003. He was also at the forefront of the police action to quell riots in two huge public rallies — anti-Dunkel and pro-Uttarakhand. He was even gravely injured during the anti-Dunkel rally in 1994 as the mob turned violent. 
 
 “Patnaik is known for his grip on law and order and investigations. His noteworthy detections include the Bombay blasts case, the parcel bomb case, the sensational   kidnapping of a schoolboy by armed gangsters that was solved in 12 hours and the Asghar gang case,” said a senior officer.
 
 In 1995, an empathetic Patnaik took the initiative to launch Pratidhi, a successful Delhi Police programme to extend counselling and other assistance to victims of traumatic crimes. As a DCP, he had handled the central, east and south districts of Delhi Police and focused on preventive planning and police-community partnership, leading to a drastic fall in heinous crimes. As joint CP, he had the rare distinction of heading both Crime Branch and southern Range. He had also served as SSP (law & order), Puducherry and DGP, Mizoram.
 
 Patnaik, who is from the AGMUT cadre, got the prestigious G-Files Excellent Contribution Award in 2015 for his outstanding track record. A police medal for meritorious service also goes to his list of accomplishments. 
 
 
