VARANASI: Alliance partners Congress vice president   and   chief   toured different parts of the state promising better prospects for UP if they were voted power. Rahul mocked Prime Minister   for fulfilling his promise of 2 crore jobs, while Akhilesh questioned what 73 MPs of BJP in UP had done since they were voted to power. 

 Addressing a public meeting in support of Congress candidate Anil Singh Gond at Duddhi in Sonbhadra district on Sunday, Rahul Gandhi said, "I have not come here to make promises but to take UP to greater heights with support of UP CM Akhilesh Yadav. Despite promise of Modi government to provide employment to 2 crore youths, unemployment continues."
 
 Attacking PM on loan waiver and "step-motherly" treatment meted out to farmers, Rahul said, "Modi waived loans of about 50 millionaires of the country but when I approached him to give waiver of Rs 50 crore to farmers, he looked the other way. May I remind, Congress had waived Rs 70,000 crore loans of farmers within 10 days during Manmohan Singh's rule."
 
 He held BJP-BSP responsible for the dismal condition of the state. "If our alliance wins, Duddhi (village) will be declared a district, farmer loans will be waived and youths will get employment as per their ability," he said. 
 
 Besides, five girls colleges will be established in UP and free coaching centres will be opened for poor students while Rs 500 will be credited into accounts of students of government schools and scholarship of Rs. 30,000 will be given on clearing class XII exam. Reservations for women in police and MSMEs will be promoted after a tenure of two-and-a-half years.
 
 Meanwhile, chief minister Akhilesh Yadav, who was addressing another rally in a different area repeated his rant that PM Narendra Modi does 'Mann ki baat' but no 'Kaam ki baat'. He asked the PM to enumerate what work the 73 BJP MPs in UP had done in their respective constituencies. He also took a dig at the PM on his long visit to his constituency and said people who fail are the ones who re-appear for the exam. "PM has failed and that is why he is holding roadshows," said the CM.
 
 Akhilesh talked about achievements of his government and said SP launched 'Dial 100' service in UP while the PM was touring the world. Besides, ambulance 102 and 108, ration packets, Samajwadi Pension for women were also launched. He said after coming into power, the amount will be increased to 1000 and pension will be offered to 1 crore women.
 
 He also said surplus seats were given to Congress in alliance as we have big hearts and alliance never works with people who have small hearts. "With this alliance, the speed of the cycle will gain pace and after coming to power, we will also distribute bicycles along with laptops and smartphones to students," he said, adding that roads will be widened and 3.5 lakh houses will be built under Lohiya Aawas scheme and houses will be given to every family in Sonbhadra.
 
 CM also took a dig at BSP chief Mayawati and said, "Woh (Mayawati) bua to humari hain lekin rakhi BJP walo ko baandti hain is liye patthar wali party se bhi savdhan rehne ki zarurat hai. (Although she is my aunt, she ties rakhi to BJP members hence one must be aware of her too)." He said Mayawati earlier used to speak extemporily but nowadays she reads out a written speech for hours during her address which bores spectators and they doze off. "People's faith in BSP is lost as its party symbol (elephant) has remained in an idle position for nine years," said CM.
 
