NAGPUR: “Looking at the development around, we might feel that our country is far behind but adapting a few measures can assist our economy to grow by leaps and bounds,” said Sameer Bendre, chief people officer & global HR, Persistent Systems Ltd.

 He was speaking during the inaugural function of International Conference on Clean and Smart City & Village (ICOSMART-2017) conducted by   college of Engineering, Kamptee, at a city hotel on Friday. He was the chief guest of the function.
 
 “Prime Minister Modi has time and again emphasized on Smart Cities and cleanliness which is mandatory for a country’s progress,” he said.
 
 Around 150 technical research papers, including the ones from Sri Lanka, Riyadh and Saudi Arabia, were submitted during the two-day conference. Bendre urged students to come up with innovative ideas to resolve current issues.
 
 “We have attained freedom but we don’t appreciate the responsibility which freedom brought to us. We have to perceive the problems from the micro-level and generate solutions based on what is feasible and practically possible here rather than imitating techniques of our neighbouring countries,” he said.
 
 The keynotes speakers discussed about basic problems such as traffic, garbage and sanitation to widen the horizons of students. Sudhir Sarawat, director of  , spoke about the role of solar energy in Smart City. He said, “It’s your consciousness and awareness that will make your city smart.”
 
 Senior principal Scientist at Neeri Pawan Labhshetwar enlightened about ‘integrated initiative for smart water sanitation & hygiene.’ Anand Manjerkhede, president of  , discussed ‘roadmap of global power of India’, while group director of ITM Engineering Milind Kulkarni threw light on wetland design for wastewater treatment.
 
 Convenor Milind Kulkarni said, “Cleanliness comes before technology and we lag in it. Less developed economies have maintained good sanitation too. Major cleanliness projects in our country have failed due to lack of community participation.”
 
 “The Ganga Action Plan (GAP) launched by Rajiv Gandhi in 1986 came to a standstill without fruitful results. Now, Modi has set in motion this plan again. The reason can be tracked down to casual attitude of citizens and absence of stakeholders from the site,” he said.
 
 Kulkarni suggested that all engineering colleges should adapt one village and work on it. “Villages need technical expertise and students seek live experience. This mutual relationship is an excellent opportunity for collaborative growth and is a win-win situation for both parties,” he added.
 
 Principal Hemat Hajare, co-convenors Mithilesh Pande and Tushar Shende were also present on the dais.
 
