HYDERABAD: If you happen to take a morning or evening stroll along the   or   or pass by   at this time of the year, you will be choking on stench. Though the historic lake is synonymous with stink and pollution, this is the first time Hussainsagar is plagued by bad odour so early in the year. A recent research study revealed Hussainsagar lake has lost its natural ability to 'selfpurify' itself due to heavy load of contaminants.

 'Putrefaction' of Hussainsagar begins around April with stench rising with summer. But this time around, the lake is already reeking of bad smell. Decay in early February is a new phenomenon and experts attribute this to several factors, including chemi cal-laden sedimentation brought in wake of heavy rains in September last year. The rise in minimum temperatures during winter due to climate change has also led to early evaporation of water from lake increasing concentration of pollutants. Reduction in oxygen content in water and release of hydrogen sulphide by decaying planktons have only worsened the situation.
 
 “This is a major environmental problem. Early stench reveals the lake is dead even before onset of summer. It shows a heavy pollution load in the lake. Hussainsagar can no longer take contaminants.Early stench is also a warning that the lake needs immediate conservation to protect it for future generations,“ said environmental and RTI activist V Satyanarayana.
 
 City doctors say, the stench is not just an aesthetic irritant. There is more to it than meets the nose. The air spreading the stench causes skin and eye allergy. They also warn the lake is a breeding ground for antibiotic-resis tant bacteria that could enter the hydrological cycle, causing severe health issues even in people living in places far away from the lake.
 
 Dr Prashant Gupta, cataract and cornea surgeon, Apollo Hospitals, pointed out the lake contains toxins that can affect eyes in varying degrees. “The effect of exposure to these toxin causes watering, itching, and redness of the eye. Sometimes polluted water may cause infection,“ he said, suggesting people who picnic around the lake, should wear sunglasses. “If eyes get affected, avoid rubbing. Apply cool compress to closed eyes,“ Dr Gupta said.
 
 The stench can cause also cause respiratory and skin disease, warns senior dermatologist Dr Manmohan Gavvala. “Pigmentation can occur due to long exposure. It cannot be reversed in the long run. Heavy automobile pollution around the lake can also trigger carcinomas in skin and internal organs. Allergic dermatitis can also happen,“ he said.
 
