Erode: The drought condition that prevails in the state not only affected farmers but wild life too. Animals in Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve (STR) in Erode district are increasingly straying out of the deep forests near Bhavanisagar dam, in search of  . According to wildlife enthusiasts, the natural and artificial ponds in STR have gone dry.

 “The water bodies in STR are dry due to poor rain. It’s natural for elephants to stray out of the forest and search for water in human habitats,” said S Sharavanan, trustee, Wildlife Nature Conservation Trust (WNCT). He further said that wild life from Karnataka and Kerala has also started migrating to Tamil Nadu forests in search of water, as there is even less water in the neighbouring states.
 
  such as leopard, deer, tiger, Indian gaur and elephants roam the STR forests spread across 1411 square kilometers. Asanur, Thalaimalai, Ghermalam, Thalavadi, Dengumarahadaa, Bhavanisagar, Sirahalli, Kadambur and Kongalli are situated on the forest fringes.
 
 According to statistics available with the forest department, a total of 1800 elephants including calves are found in STR. There are 1000 Indian gaurs, 60 tigers and 65 leopards in these forests.
 
 “Except for 2015, animals have been struggling to quench their thirst for the past four years,” said a forest official on condition of anonymity. The animals generally migrate to Karnataka when ponds go dry. But this year, Karnataka forests are also dry due to scanty rain.
 
 When the north-east monsoon failed, animal enthusiasts were hoping that south-west monsoon would be good during October and November last year, but that too failed. “If the Bhavanisagar river had water, forest officials could have transported it to fill the ponds inside the forests. But the river has also gone dry,” said S K Vadivel, another wild life enthusiast.
 
 Wild life enthusiast Sharavanan said that wild animals such as leopard, tiger and hyena have abundant food inside the forest. But they stray out only in search of water.
 
 Apart from the shortage endured by wild animals, residents living along forest fringes are afraid of encountering a carnivore. More than four people have lost their lives after leopards attacked them since 2014. Subsequently, forest officials banned tourists from entering reserve forest areas including Dengumarahadaa. They have regulated vehicular traffic in such areas across STR. “We want to create a safe zone for wild animals where tourists won’t disrupt their routine,” said the forest official.
 
 
