KORAPUT: The Odisha Police Havildar, Constable and   has alleged that senior officials did not follow the standard operation procedure (SOP) resulting in the death of eight policemen in Wednesday's landmine blast near Sunki in   district.

   , the president of the confederation, on Thursday said, "The mishap could have been averted had the senior officers concerned followed the SOP," alleged Mohapatra while speaking to mediapersons at the special guard of honour organized for the dead policemen. Mohapatra alleged that while private vehicles are being arranged for the movement of senior police officers in Maoist-hit areas, the jawans who were to go to Bhubaneswar for a training were sent in a department van, exposing their movement to Maoists.
 
 However, DIG (south-western range) S   brushed aside the allegations claiming that the SOP was not violated. "Its an unfortunate incident and we condemn it. Even officers moving in the area use vehicles supplied by the department. I also use the department vehicle allotted to me while going to Bhubaneswar on official work and on the same route," she said.
 
 On being asked about whether the incident was a result of failure of intelligence network of the police, she said, "It will be looked into. Inquiry will be made and details will be known once we complete our investigation".
 
 The DIG also came down heavily on human rights campaigners for sloganeering against police when an anti-social is killed or arrested but chosing to remain silent when police is targeted. The policemen who were killed were unarmed and not even part of any anti-Maoist operations. "We lost eight of our men. Now where are the human rights activists who make a hue and cry against police whenever action is taken against Maoists," she said. IG (operation) R P Koche and ADG   arrived in Koraput on Thursdary afternoon to assess the situation.
 
 However, DIG (south-western range) S Shyni brushed aside the allegations claiming that the SOP was not violated. "Its an unfortunate incident and we condemn it. Even officers moving in the area use vehicles supplied by the department. I also use the department vehicle allotted to me while going to Bhubaneswar on official work and on the same route," she said.
 
 On being asked about whether the incident was a result of failure of intelligence network of the police, she said, "It will be looked into. Inquiry will be made and details will be known once we complete our investigation".
 
 The DIG also came down heavily on human rights campaigners for sloganeering against police when an anti-social is killed or arrested but chosing to remain silent when police is targeted.
 
 The policemen who were killed were unarmed and not even part of any anti-Maoist operations. "We lost eight of our men. Now where are the human rights activists who make a hue and cry against police whenever action is taken against Maoists," she said. IG (operation) R P Koche and ADG Sunil Kumar Roy arrived in Koraput on Thursdary afternoon to assess the situation.
 
