PATNA/BIHARSHARIF: President   has appointed   as the new VC of  . Currently the VC of Hyderabad-based University of English and Foreign Languages (HEFL), she will have a five-year tenure.
 
  “The varsity office received a communique in this regard on Wednesday evening,” said NU’s director (communication) Smita Polite on Thursday.
  
  Former bureaucrat and former Rajya Sabha member N K Singh, who is the government of India’s representative on the NU’s newly constituted governing board, told TOI over phone from Hong Kong that Sunaina was appointed on the recommendation of a search committee formed earlier this year to look for a successor to  
  
  The search committee members included, besides Singh, NU Chancellor Vijay P Bhatkar, ICCR president Lokesh Chandra, Dr Arvind Sharma from McGill University and Preeti Saran, secretary (east) of the ministry of external affairs.
  
  The search committee had received 125 applications. After shortlisting them, six candidates were called for interview following which a panel of three names were recommended to the President, Singh said, adding Sunaina was appointed the HEFL VC during the UPA regime when Kapil Sibal was the Union HRD minister.
  
  Gopa had been appointed the VC for five years on November 25, 2010 and granted extension for a year. She had to demit office in November last year as President Mukherjee did not okay the then Chancellor George Yeo’s reported move to further extend her service.
  
  The veteran Singapore politician quit the Chancellor’s post of the international varsity in protest.
  
  The NU’s most senior teacher, Pankaj Mohan, had taken charge from Gopa on November 25 last year. The acting VC tendered his resignation late Wednesday evening taking moral responsibility for the unrest on the campus over an alleged incident of sexual harassment of a student by her classmate.
  
  It was after the intervention of Nalanda SP Kumar Ashish that the protesting students met the acting VC on Wednesday afternoon, following which the accused student was rusticated. However, neither the girl nor the university has lodged a police complaint in this regard.
