PUNE: The six-member gang of Nepalese nationals busted by the   on February 6 has admitted to its involvement in six burglaries in the past three months. 

 The police have recovered gold and silver ornaments worth Rs 23.22 lakh from the gang members who were nabbed while they were preparing to steal cash from a petrol pump in Baner.
 
 All the six suspects used to work as watchmen at different housing societies in Baner and Balewadi areas. After noticing locked bungalows in the areas, they used to alert each other and strike during the night, said Dayanand Dhome, senior inspector of Chatushrungi police station.
 
 Police constable   had received a tip-off on February 6 that a six-member gang was preparing to steal cash from a petrol pump in Baner and that they were meeting near Vidhate Vasti on Aundh-Baner link road.
 
 Two police teams led by assistant inspectors Sanesh Kenjale and Pramod Kshirsagar laid traps and nabbed all of them. The police had recovered an air gun, sharp weapons, a hammer, a rope and chilli powder from them.
 
 Kenjale identified the suspects as Deepak Joshi (33), a resident of Nalasopara in Palhgar district, Sagar Khati (33) of Pimpri, Padambahadur Shahi (43) from Bhosari, Jagat Shahi (35) of Wakad, Janak Shahi (40) of Kalewadi and Gagan Kami (27) of Balewadi.
 
 Kenjale said the gang was involved in the five recent burglaries reported with the Chatushrungi police. They told the police that they had sold off the booty to two men in Nalasopara. “We have picked up two persons,   (54) and Ekendra Nath (37), from Nalasopara and recovered 646 gm of gold, six kg silver, all worth Rs 23.22 lakh, from them,” Kenjale added.
 
 Kenjale said the gang members, besides working as watchmen, used to wash cars in the locality. “During the day, they used to recce the areas and whenever they used to come across bungalows locked for two to three days and the car missing in the porch, they used to alert each other,” Kenjale added.
 
 After identifying the bungalows, the gang used to break open the locks and steal mainly gold and silver ornaments and cash. “Later in the morning, one of them used to go to Nalasopara with the stolen goods, while the other five used to go back to their regular duties,” Kenjale said. 
 
 An officer from the Chatushrungi police station said the gang used to mainly target bungalows in the area which didn’t have security.
 
