PANAJI: The Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) has all but forgotten about its commitment under the Global Covenant of Mayors for Climate and Energy.

 Founder and CEO of Earthsoul Bio Products, Perses Bilimoria, who was in the state for a few days to evaluate the steps taken by stakeholders to protect the capital’s vulnerable status, found that not much had been done on ground to mitigate climate change risks.
 
 Panaji along with Rajkot, Shimla and Gwalior are the four cities in the country chosen to participate in the Global Covenant of Mayors for Climate and Energy. According to Bilimoria, Panaji is vulnerable to global sea rise and increasing emissions.
 
 “The state needs to give focus to these issues,” he said.
 
 During the tenure of Shubham Chodankar, the Compact of Mayors and the Covenant of Mayors announced the Global Covenant of Mayors for Climate and Energy, a newly merged initiative to bring these two efforts together. As per the commitment, the Corporation of the City of Panaji had to identify the vulnerabilities of the capital and set achievable targets which could help mitigate the risks of climate change.
 
 “I took over as the mayor in 2016 and was not informed about Panaji being part of this initiative. Nothing has come to my notice,” CCP mayor, Surendra Furtado said.
 
 Commissioner, Dipak   however pointed out that the corporation had taken several steps to identify the risk areas which would later translate into “work on the field.”
 
 CCP has commissioned consulting firm ICLEI   to prepare a report on low emission development strategies and for the Asian cities, a climate change resilient network.
 
 Dessai said that work was on to convert the public lighting to LED lights while it was also working to reduce emissions by introducing bio-diesel or LNG buses through the smart city route.
 
 CCP officials also pointed out that the five-way method of segregation of waste and the elimination of landfill sites had also served as means to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases.
 
 
