An array of films — the raw Shiva, the cool 'Rangeela', the hard-hitting ' ', the spine-chilling 'Kaun', the edgy 'Company', the scary 'Bhoot', the gritty 'Ek Haseena Thi' and the Godfather-like 'Sarkar' series — define his approach to filmmaking. Agreeably, there was a time when his next was keenly awaited. And then came the downfall with a slew of unimpressive ventures. With ' ' and   by his side, Ram Gopal Varma hopes to redeem himself as a filmmaker. Excerpts from our conversation with him:
 
 
 
 I never really had an idea to make another part after 'Sarkar Raj'. Amitji (Amitabh Bachchan) started discussing the possibility of the third part with me two-three years ago. An idea struck and we’re here. It wasn’t a conscious decision to wait for so long. But sometimes, to be removed for a while, has its advantages. You can look back on the strengths and weaknesses of the previous parts and make the new one better, more contemporary and real. Something like 'Godfather 3' came nearly 20 years after the second part. You need to give the subject a break before coming back to it.
  
 
 That was a proposal for another film. There was no plan to make the third part with them (Ekta's company). The rights for 'Sarkar' belong to Alumbra Entertainment. 
 
 
 There's a difference between being inspired by and being based on. Imagine a powerful man who without being an authorised body runs a parallel government purely on his charisma and the faith he instils in people. If Balasaheb Thackeray can exist, so can Sarkar. He was just a reference point. 'Godfather' is not about the mafia. It's the story of a family. With 'Sarkar Raj', the idea was that a public figure will have issues to deal with though I never thought of Enron as the basis of the story. While working on the subject, things just came up. As for 'Sarkar 3', I'd say that in any organisation, there are bound to be egos if it involves family members. How outsiders take advantage of a rift within the group forms the gist of narrative. 
 
 
 When I'm critical, I'm being honest. It comes from the heart. I tell him what I would tell anyone else. I don't say anything behind his back. I believe he sees the sincerity and passion with which I approach my work. 
 
 
 After a long journey and so many interactions, you lose perspective of what had happened. I made one phone call to Manoj for this film and he said yes. Even if we'd put our differences aside, the media will make it a point to bring it up. 
 
 
 Amitji suggested Amit Sadh's name. I called him for a look test and he turned out to be impressive. He plays a cocky, arrogant guy in the film and he nailed the part. As for Yami, we've seen her as an innocent girl in her previous outings but here, she plays an intense role. 
 
  
  
 
 There's a misconception here. The release of a film has more to do with post-production and the number of screens you might get in a certain window. I'm the last person to be bothered. It doesn't make a difference whether the film releases one month or the other. There's an exaggerated perception of release dates. It has never happened that if two films release, I've seen only one. 
 
 
 It is partly my arrogance in a sense of taking things for granted and partly because I was never questioned when I started making those films. Not that I didn't have this kind of mindset before when I was making films that worked. I tried reinventing myself and left Mumbai for a while. 
 
 
 It would be presumptuous to say I won't make mistakes. At most, I may not repeat them. You can intend to not make mistakes but you can't say whether that will really happen. Today, I want to make films different from what others are making or watching. 
 
 
 I'm often criticised that I do too much too soon and I don't concentrate, which isn't true. Very often, I've gone by my instinct. I've made 'Satya' on my instinct. Films don't work by planning. They are not about being careful. If something comes out well, it clicks. No matter what people say, I know I did my best at that point in time. 
 
 
 I never fell in to fall out with them. I used people for myself as resources to make films. So the question of someone falling out doesn't arise. 
 
 
 I don't think people care about what an actor or a director does apart from making a film. They don't have the time or energy to waste on things that are not related to their day-to-day existence. If I want a product, I don't care about the manufacturer's personal life. 
 
 
 I'm married to films now and they are my muses. 
 
 
 I'm working on Arrest with   which will roll out soon. I'm also planning a horror film. And yes, there will be a 'Sarkar 4', but I don't know when.
 
  
  
 
