JAIPUR: If government targets to stabilise population, it should raise the education level of women in the state. The higher level of education among women, the lower will be the total fertility rate (TFR) -the number of children who would be born per woman (or per 1,000 women).

 The latest sample registration system ( ) 2015 shows the correlation between illiteracy and TFR. The plight is that   has 24.9% of its women population, which is completely illiterate, which is one of the major reasons behind high TFR. The SRS-2015 has revealed that the TFR is highest (4.2) in the illiterate women population in the state. 
 
 But in population of women, who are graduate and above, it is 1.7. The figures show that TFR reduces with the level of education increases in the state. Among the women population which is below primary, the TFR is 3.4. The TFR reduces further to 2.9 among women who have completed primary education. Among population of women completed middle education, TFR is 2.4.Among those women population completed class X and class XII, the TFR is 2.0 and 1.7 respectively .
 
 “Evidence clearly shows that education has direct effect on the total fertility rate. Education keeps girls and boys in school and helps avert child marriage, thereby reducing adolescent fertility rate. Education also helps families take informed decisions on the number of children they should have and when they should have children, by delaying and spacing child bearing through use of contraceptives“ said  , country representative, UNFPA India. Rajasthan is in the league of those states, having highest TFR in the country -Bihar (3.2),   (3.1),   (2.8),   and Rajasthan have 2.7. These states have highest percentage of women population which is illiterate. Bihar has 29%, UP has 24.4%, MP 20% and Jharkhand has 26.5% of women population, which is illiterate.
 
 If talking about nationally, India has 16.2% women population which is illiterate.Among such illiterate women population, TFR is 3.7. But, in the country only 10.1% of women are graduates and above, which has TFR as low as 1.6.ome from outside the city.
 
