KOLKATA: In the early hours of January 13 last year, a swish SUV had bulldozed several barricades and barged into a road that was closed to traffic because of Republic Day parade rehearsal. What happened next had caused a stir across the country. The incident has faded from the collective memory but the dramatis personae of the high-profile crime are still waiting to pick up the pieces.

 Former MLA and   Mohemmed Sohrab was accused of shielding his son   — who was allegedly driving the SUV that fatally knocked down Air Force officer   — from the cops. He rejected the allegation then and a year on, he continues to stick to his stand. “I am a law-abiding citizen. I have faith in law. I believe my son will be acquitted,” said Sohrab, sitting at his residence at Mechhua.
 
 When Sohrab is not meeting lawyers, he is tending to his ailing wife and parents. “I normally stay indoors. I only go out to meet lawyers for my son,” Sohrab told TOI.
 
 Besides being a former MLA (he was elected as a Left-supported candidate in 2006), Sohrab wields a lot of clout as the president of the Calcutta Fruits Merchants’ Association. He was elected uncontested in the last election to the association. 
 
 In March last year, police submitted the chargesheet in the Audi hit-and-run case, naming Sambia Sohrab as the lone occupant of the car when it fatally hit Abhimanyu on January 13. He is lodged in Presidency jail but his family has not given up hopes of his acquittal.
 
 “I have faith in our judicial system. I have faith that my son will be acquitted,” said Sohrab. A source close to the family said that the son has been breaking into tears everytime he sees his parents. 
 
 A senior policer officer said the cops have slapped murder charges because they are sure they can prove it in court. “We have enough evidence against him. Both circumstantial evidence and witness accounts suggest that he was driving the car,” said the officer. 
 
 Another important character in the episode was the car — an   SUV — that fatally knocked down Abhimanyu. A source said that the family did not want to have anything to do with the infamous Audi anymore. “The family associates the vehicle with a very bad phase in their life. It will only bring bad memories which is why they do not even talk about it anymore,” said the source.
 
 
