Seeking to arrest the flow of unaccounted cash into the coffers of political parties, the   has proposed a Rs 2,000 cap on anonymous individual cash donations and has introduced a new mechanism for making political contributions through bonds for those who want to remain incognito. 

 The Election Commission had sought to bring down the limit on anonymous cash contributions from Rs 20,000 to Rs 2,000 as parties were often accused of “breaking up” donations to go below the sanctioned limit. This process will now become much more tedious and complicated if a party does look to fudging its ledger. 
 
 There is, however, no such restriction on contributions to political parties by cheque or the digital mode. Going a step further, the government has also facilitated contributions from donors reluctant to adopt transparent methods for fear of being identified. Such donors can now maintain anonymity by purchasing bonds from banks against cheque and digital payments. These bonds shall be redeemable by political parties in their bank accounts within a prescribed time limit. 
 
 “It is time we corrected the system of   in India. Our claim is that we are the largest as well as the most vibrant democracy. We cannot have a political system which is funded by a shadow economy. It is part of the campaign the prime minister has launched for the cleansing of political economy,” FM   said. 
 
 While enforcement of the Rs 2,000 cap will require an amendment to Section 29(C) of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, an amendment to the RBI Act is proposed to allow issuance of  . Jaitley said the bonds would be “bearer in character because if names are disclosed, identities are revealed, then it is as good as paying money through a cheque, which is the present status quo”. Every political party will have to file its return within the time prescribed in accordance with provisions of the Income Tax Act. 
 
 The Election Commission on Wednesday refrained from reacting to the government’s acceptance of its recommendation, which was forwarded in December 2016 as part of a compilation of proposed electoral reforms, in the interest of neutrality ahead of polls in five states. 
 
 In the 10 years between 2004-05 and 2014-15, political parties of all hues had a total income of over Rs 11,000 crore, of which Rs 7,800 crore was collected from unknown sources, according to a report put out recently by the Association for Democratic Reforms.
 
