AHMEDABAD: Two Libyan nationals have lodged a complaint against the owner of a city-based firm and his associates, alleging multiple offences including attempt to murder, illegal confinement, intimidation and so on. The complaint has been received by Sola police from the two Libyans who are currently living in Libyan embassy in New Delhi. They had given a written complaint to the office of the New Delhi police commissioner. The complaint was later transferred to Ahmedabad police.

 Sola police said the Libyan nationals,   and Mohamed   Mohamed Abadraa, were involved in import-export business. In March this year, they had entered into an agreement with Credence Agricultural Commodities Solutions Pvt Ltd to deliver five containers of peanuts and one container of red chilli for US $1,40,000. An advance of US $14,800 was also paid to the Ahmedabad firm.
 
 When the containers reached Tripoli port in June, the contents were examined and the peanuts were not found fit for human consumption. The containers were rejected from the port itself. Details of the same were sent to the company on June 7 and 8.
 
 According to the complaint, on June 14, Mohamed Ramadan was picked up from rented premises in  . 
 
 “On the same night, Adel Giuma was also allegedly abducted at 10:30 pm,” said the police officer. 
 
 “They were taken to the office of the firm and later confined to a room. They were allegedly beaten up and threatened with death if they failed to make full payment. On the second day, they were taken to a farmhouse which is about two hours drive away,” the police officer.
 
 The two abducted Libyans was again beaten up in which Adel Giuma’s shoulder was dislocated and both sustained severe injuries. When their captors realized the degree of injury, they first took the Libyans to a private clinic but the doctor refused to treat them as he did not have facilities like X-ray to ascertain the injuries. The two Libyans were then taken to a smaller nursing home where they were treated but their medical records were not handed over. “From June 14 to 21, they were allegedly subjected to torture and constant threats,” the police officer said. 
 
 “The two Libyans had contacted a local supplier who had business links with them to pay US $100,000 to the captors. After he agreed to this, the Libyans were allowed to go. They immediately left for Delhi telling the supplier not to make payments,” the police official said. 
 
