PANAJI: State Congress president   on Sunday urged the party’s central leadership to accept his resignation and called for a new Goa Pradesh Congress Committee president. The veteran Congress leader also called for strengthening of the Congress organization to thwart   of a “Congress-mukt” India.

 “I cannot continue forever, I have given my resignation and I have told them to ensure that it is accepted. After the elections, you have to get a new president. I will be very happy if new blood comes in. I have said to them to please accept my resignation so that even the election process is free and fair. It is up to them now,” Faleiro said at an event to mark the 26th death anniversary of ex- PM Rajiv Gandhi.
 
 Faleiro said that the Congress MLAs had to reach out to Goans across the state.
 
 He said he had asked the party’s block presidents and MLAs to add more members to the party ahead of the party elections that will be held in August.
 
 He took a dig at the party MLAs who chose to skip the event. Except for opposition leader Chandrakant Kavlekar and MLA Nilkant Halarnkar, no other party MLA was seen at the Congress headquarters.
 
 State party vice president M K Shaikh has written to all block presidents in the state to expedite the ongoing membership drive to enroll as many new members as possible.
 
 Faleiro has also appointed observers for each constituency to ensure that membership drives are organized in each block and a report is filed by May 30.
 
 “It is high time for seniors to step aside and bring new faces at every level,” Faleiro said.
 
 No decison yet on candidate for RS election 
 
 It appears that the Congress has yet to learn its lessons, being slow off the blocks again. While the nominations for the   elections will commence on Monday, the Congress has decided to meet a day later to begin the candidate selection process for the Rajya Sabha elections.
 
 The 16 Congress MLAs are expected to meet on May 23 to shortlist names and formulate a strategy for the Rajya Sabha polls.
 
 “We will discuss with a few senior leaders of the party like Digambar Kamat, Pratapsingh Rane, leader of opposition Chandrakant Kavlekar,  , to apply their mind. On Tuesday there will be a CLP meeting and then we will put it up to the state election committee and thereafter we will recommend it to the party president,” state party president Luizinho Faleiro said.
 
 The last day of filing nominations is May 29 and the Rajya Sabha elections would be held on June 8.
 
 The party has not ruled out the possibility of a non-Congress member being nominated.
 
 
