Looking pretty in a shirt paired with a snug short skirt, Tridha Chaudhury turns up for the interview more than an hour late, apologetic.There's a lot keeping her busy, she tells us, ever since she shifted base to The City of Dreams, Mumbai. But once the interview rolls, the vivacious young actress holds no bars. Post an exclusive photo shoot with CT, Tridha, in town to attend a wedding, speaks about her insecurities, the lack of professionalism in Tollywood and her take on infidelity. Excerpts:
 
  
 
  
  Not at all. It's been a great experience working here with some very talented directors. Getting a break in a  's film is no mean feat. And then I was part of Kaushik Ganguly's Khaad, Sudeshna Roy and Abhijit Guha's Jodi Love Dile Na Prane and Kamaleswar Mukherjee's Khawto. But opportunities from Bollywood were pouring in and I was flying back and forth, so I took the decision to shift. I've been in Mumbai for just two months and good offers are already coming my way . Coming back to Tollywood, I'm all set to play a part in Sankarlal Bhattacharya's directorial debut, Parokiya. I play Megna, who falls in love with a married man.
  
  
 
  
  Divorce rates are soaring because many of us end up with the wrong person. It's always better to date a person for some time and then take the call on marriage.
  
  
 
  
  Bollywood is more professional. We have so many talented people here but the pace is slower. For example, a talented person in Mumbai will take five months to reach a place but here, it would take the same person five years! I said no to too many projects in Mumbai because I felt that it wouldn't have established me as an actor. One good work leads to another and I need to be spotted in meaningful projects so that directors think of cast ing me again. There's no set formula of success in Bollywood and one needs to be constantly in touch with the casting directors to get hold of the right opportunities. I'm determined, not desperate. Good agencies filter your profile before calling you in for auditions so it's important to create a good work portfolio.
  
  
 
  
  I'm taking a break from serials. For now, I'm part of a web series titled Spotlight, directed by Suhail Tatari. It is the story of a small-town girl who lives life on her own terms and her rise to become the queen of the Hindi film industry. Apart from that, I'm part of Mahesh Babu's sister Manjula's film down south.Also, there are many commercials lined up.
  
  
 
  
  It's not insecurity but competition. I believe, hard work has no alternative. When I see girls of my age doing great work, I tell myself, `If I get that platform, I'll do even better'.
  
  
 
  
  To me, the audience's take matters more than box-office collections. There are brilliant films that didn't see commercial success. In Bollywood, the marketing and publicity of a film is tremendous and that matters a lot. Here, despite a pool of great talent, we lack that aggression towards a great packaging.
  
  
 
  
  People said I couldn't act to save my life in that film. It was true -my acting wasn't in great form. But at the same time, Rini, my character, gave me recognition. Kaushikda (Kaushik Ganguly) cast me in Khaad after Mishawr Rawhoshyo. Kamalda (Kamaleswar Mukh erjee) gave me a meaty role in Khawto post Khaad... so it's really about your work getting noticed.
  
  
 
  
  Tollywood didn't extract the best out of me but I hope, in future, I get to do challenging roles. Khub obhimaan aamar Tollywood er opor. Being a trained dancer, I get offers to participate in dance reality shows in Mumbai, whereas Tollywood never utilised that talent of mine.
  
  
 
  
  (Smiles) Perhaps, a little. And why not, I worked hard for it.
  
  
 
  
  Not at all. We went on a trip to Europe with common friends and that's about it.Harshad is not my soulmate.
  
  
 
  
  Love is all about understanding each other. There are thousands of perfect men out there but I might find my comfort zone in a pretty aver age guy . That's love for me.
  
  
 
  
  I'll be in   shooting for an ad campaign. But yes, there's a special person in my life and he stays in the US.
