PUNE: A repeat offender, who would use matrimonial sites to befriend women and then  , was arrested by the   on Saturday.

 The 28-year-old suspect, identified as  , a resident of  , was arrested for allegedly raping a software engineer from Mumbai on the promise of marriage. 
 
  Jadhav, who hails from Baramati, had posed as a software engineer to contact the woman through a matrimonial website. 
 
 Investigations revealed that along with the complainant, the suspect had duped and raped at least four more women using the same modus. “We are yet to receive complaints from the other women,” said Arun More, inspector at   police station.
 
 In April last year, Jadhav had approached the woman through a matrimonial website. He had enrolled himself as a software engineer and pretended to look for a life partner from the same field. After getting the woman’s phone number, Jadhav started calling her frequently. 
 
 “Jadhav had told the woman that he was working with an IT company in Hinjewadi. He had even told the woman that he was going abroad for two years,” More said.
 
 More said that the suspect had insisted that they should get engaged before he leaves the country. “Jadhav had called the woman to Ravet and raped her in a flat. He also took money from her for his visa,” More said.
 
 More said the suspect had raped the woman several times on the promise of marriage. “About two months ago Jadhav contacted the woman and told her that he wanted to end their relationship. When the woman asked him to return her money, Jadhav refused,” More said.
 
 The woman then approach the police station and lodged the complaint. For the past two months, the police have been collecting information about him. “We got a tip-off that Jadhav would be coming near Pune railway station. We laid a trap and took him into custody,” More said. 
 
 He further stated when the police arrested Jadhav, a woman was with him. “We found that Jadhav had duped that woman too. However, she refused to lodge a complaint,” More said.
 
 More said, Jadhav has admitted to duping four more women. “We have also found that Jadhav is jobless,” More said.
 
 More appealed to the victims to lodge complaints against Jadhav.
 
