It has been a little over 20 days since   launched its ambitious digital project with the idea of bringing together all the artistes of the state on one common online platform —
tsdolc.com. And so far, some 3,000-odd aritstes have signed up. “Our target is to make a database of 50,000 artistes from nine categories — folk, classical, tribal, Hyderabad Deccani, theatre, film and television, 3M (Mime, Magic & Mimicry), literature and fine Arts (Painting, Sculpture etc),” says an optimistic  , Director, TSDOLC. “Art, especially folk art, is a highly unorganised sector and we are trying to actually put a system in place as there exists none to date. The artistes just have to fill up a simple form online and register with us. Once they have signed up, they will be given government ID cards. We’ve seen that getting a recognition of this kind itself is a huge morale boost for many of them; it gives the artiste a sense of respect.” 
 But artistes cannot survive on respect alone, can they? “Well, that’s just one of the non-material perks,” Mamidi is quick to point out. “There are other vital benefits too. For example, aged artistes get a pension of `3,300-4,000 approximately. A comprehensive database would help us identify the genuine beneficiaries, apart from extending such schemes to various other deserving people. we are also working on providing various other incentives, which I am not at liberty to reveal right now. But just this Bonalu, some 8,000-odd artistes who performed at temple processions across the city were selected by our Department. Around 126 temples have benefited from this direct access to the artistes.”
 WILL THE GOVERNMENT BE ABLE TO DELIVER ON ITS PROMISES, ASK ARTISTES
 While the intention seems noble, the feasibility of getting the largely unlettered folk artistes from rural parts of Telangana, to sign up on an online platform is being debated. Finally, it all depends on execution, says Kuchipudi dancer  . “If they are able to execute it properly, then it might be a good thing. It will help the government get an idea of who’s doing what and disperse funds accordingly. they can really make a difference if incentives are provided in the form of scholarships, pensions, travel etc to the artists. Many artistes are struggling to make ends meet and feed their families. They are in the art only out of passion. If some kind of relief can be accorded to them, I think it would be great. That said, there’s a lot of mediocre work going on as well, that is being accepted as the standard. So, grading the artists will be a problem as art is a subjective thing.” 
 FILM ARTISTES ARE A TAD TOO SCEPTICAL
 interestingly, Film and Television has also been included in the list of categories. Any professional from the 24 crafts of cinema can register on the site. But the ground reality is usually not rosy, they point out sceptically. “Even in United Andhra Pradesh, identity cards were issued to television artists. But that was it! There was no demarcation either and everyone was tagged as an ‘artiste’. Those cards weren’t of much help except when returning from late night shoots when we were occasionally pulled up by security personnel. But if some help is extended either financially or in other ways, through these cards, then it would be a significant thing for everyone,” said  , President of 'Television Actors Association’. 
 FOLK ARTISTES PIN HIGH HOPES ON ID CARDS; SAY IT MIGHT SAVE THEM FROM ARRESTS AND EARN THEM PENSION BENEFITS
 And yet, the move is being hailed by folk artistes of Telangana who have to otherwise get by with little or no help from the world outside. Says Ravi, a folklore artist, “We are poor people and we travel throughout the State, from one village to the other, often on foot, for practising our art. Many a time, we have been arrested by the police even though we show them our tools and other items of our art form. Sometimes, we perform in other States as well and face the same problem, since language is a barrier there. Many of us die miserable deaths on the roads due to accidents, snake bites etc. note.” 
 Judging by the expectations which artists like Ravi have on the efficacy of this system of identifying and recognising local talent, it is pretty much clear that the Department of Culture has its work cut out. While the idea sounds good in itself, the holistic benefits to the artists would only accrue when there are tangible incentives associated with the card. 
 
