NEW DELHI: After initial rounds of discussions on the  , Opposition leaders have concluded that they will be forced to back off from the resolve to field a joint Opposition candidate only if the government ‘persuades’ incumbent   for a second term at the Rashtrapati Bhavan, many leaders involved in the deliberations have said.
 
  The deliberations noted the fact that the   government and  , to the best of their knowledge, have not communicated to partners or the Opposition on its choice.
  
  Incidentally, media reports have said that a bungalow “is being readied as retirement House” for Mukherjee, whose current term ends in July, leading to interpretation that Mukherjee may not be interested in another term. So far, only Rajendra Prasad had a second term as President However, Opposition leaders concluded it will be ‘improper’ to ‘speculate’ or indulge in ‘pressuring probes’ as it involves the highest constitutional office. For the same reason, the Opposition has decided not to take any initiative on Mukherjee as it doesn’t want to ‘drag’ him into the ‘political lane’ or provide opportunity to anyone to give it a ‘partisan’ colour.
 
  “The onus is entirely on the government to let all know its views on the next President and whether it wants another term for the incumbent President. It has been the tradition for the government to take the initiative on the matter,” said a senior leader involved in the Opposition deliberations. The Opposition camp pointed out that past regimes, including Vajpyee and Manmohan Singh governments, made the first move on the ruling side’s choice known, letting the Opposition camps respond in one way or the other.
  
  The Opposition camps feel Mukherjee’s tenure is rated high widely, especially in upholding the letter and spirit of the Constitution and ensuring his presidency was not marred by controversies, while maintaining a good working relationship with the government and Opposition — even though his decisions or statements may not have suited respective political positioning of one side or other at times.
  
  Hence, if the government chooses to persuade him for another term, it will leave the Opposition with no ground to force a contest, as the Opposition’s preparation is on the premise that the ruling side will field someone identified with the BJP-RSS, thereby giving the Opposition an opening for forcing a contest on ideological grounds by rallying larger opposition camps.
  
  Interestingly, when UPA announced Mukherjee’s candidature in 2012, it received support from even some NDA allies such as JDU and Shiv Sena. The latter even recently voiced support for a second term for Mukherjee. Also, 11 non-UPA parties such as Trinamool Congress, CPM, SP and BSP supported Mukherjee’s candidature. The BJP then chose to back PA Sangma, whose candidature was proposed by AIADMK and BJD. NDA has an upper hand in the current electoral college and many names are doing the rounds as potential candidate of both BJP and Opposition, even though nothing has been formally discussed or decided yet. 
