PATNA: Those seeking   for filing petitions in lower courts suffered for the second day on Tuesday because the supply of red German ink used in franking machines has stopped in the state for the past one month. Even bail petitions could not be filed in around 50 courts of   on Tuesday, sources said.
 
  The franking machines are used to print judicial stamps of different value for filing of petitions in courts. Sources said the crisis may continue in around 50 lower courts this week though efforts were being made to get the supply of ink for franking machines at the earliest. The last consignment of around 2,500 cartridges was supplied to the courts almost a month back. One cartridge costs around Rs900.
  
  Advocates said litigants across the state are facing problems as they are unable to file any petition, including for bail, due to unavailability of ink. “Very few petitions were filed in the Patna civil court for the second consecutive day on Tuesday as there was no ink in the franking machine,” said an advocate.
  
  Official sources said a renowned private firm supplies these cartridges imported from   to the courts across India. “The firm has somehow procured some cartridges from   and Rajasthan for the franking machines at the Patna high court,” he said, adding, “Officials of the supply firm have informed that there is some problem in getting the ink imported from Germany. However, the consignment has been dispatched from Germany and we expect it to reach Patna by Friday.”
  
  Advocates said the three functional franking machines out of four at Patna civil court printed tickets only till 7am on Monday. One machine is already not working, they said.
  
  Patna DM   said all efforts were being made to ensure regular court work in the state capital. “Non-availability of cartridges in Indian market has created the crisis,” he said.
  
  Sources said the franking machines at Patna civil court were kept functional till Monday morning as additional cartridges were brought from Buxar.
  
  Patna high court registrar general   said everything was normal.
