Nagpur: Nagpur University has not learnt any lesson from the infamous Kochade scam, that tarnished its image across the globe, it seems.

 In a reminiscence of the 1999 scandal and the recent Chunodkar-Handa scam, four bachelor of social work (BSW) students from Aniket College of Social Work, Wardha, were passed in winter exam despite failing in social work practicum.
 
 As per the course rules, a student failing in social work practicum needs to take re-admission and the performance is assessed on the basis of fresh work submitted by the student.
 
 The case pertains to two batches of 2013 when the college’s officiating principal was Baba Shambarkar. Sources alleged that this is not the first time as earlier too Shambarkar had tampered a BSW first year student’s marklist. He was convicted by a trial court and the matter is pending before JMFC, sources said.
 
 Shubhangi Jawade of BSW Part II, Prafulla Saddam, Raju Wasekar, and Ravindrakumar Dhurve, all BSW Part III students, were passed in winter 2013 exam despite failing in the summer 2013 exam. As per the syllabus, these students should have taken re-admission and presented fresh work for assessment in summer 2014.
 
 Principal VM Karhade referred TOI’s query to assistant professor Baba Shambarkar, who was officiating principal in 2013.
 
 Shambarkar said, “If the students applies and university accepts the form, what objection should the college have. They were given provisional admissions and they completed the field minimum visits as mandated in the syllabus.”
 
 Pointing at daily life problems faced by students, Shambarkar said some of the students may have failed to appear for viva due to ill-health or some tragedy in family. “All their activities were completed. Just because they couldn’t appear for viva, they shouldn’t be made to repeat an entire year. As teachers, it is our duty to help them.”
 
 Pro-VC Pramod Yeole, who is handling the exam section, didn’t answer TOI’s calls.
 
 Director, Board of Examinations and Evaluation Neeraj Khaty put the entire blame on the principal of the college. “An undertaking is given by the principal that whatever marks are being submitted to the exam section are as per the syllabus and rules. If a complaint comes, an inquiry will be conducted,” he said.
 
 Asked how the results of these students were processed, Khaty said, “If the college sends us marks, we put up the result.”
 
 When asked if it was the exam section’s responsibility that exams are conducted in fair manner, he replied in negative. “We have 1,300 different examinations and can’t check each case individually,” he said.
 
 
