COIMBATORE: The state minister for higher education   on Saturday said that Tamil Nadu tops the country when it comes to higher education.   said the   government in the last five years has set up 67 new government colleges in the state. 

 Speaking at the inauguration of the 18th International Conference, jointly organised by the   and   and Science, on the role of higher education in national and international development, Anbalagan said, "At the national level, there are 27 colleges for every one lakh people between the age group of 18 and 23 years, while in Tamil Nadu, there are 37 institutions. This is why Tamil Nadu's gross enrolment ratio (GER) is 44.8% when compared to national ratio of 23.6%."
 
 The minister for higher education also cited the GER of women in Tamil Nadu. "It is 22.7% nationally, while it is 42.7% in Tamil Nadu," he said. He also pointed out that Tamil Nadu's institutions fared among the top 25 as per the rankings recently released by the  .
 
 The state minister for rural development and municipal administration, S P Velumani, also participated in the inauguration. In his speech, he recalled the schemes introduced by the AIADMK government for the welfare of the people of Coimbatore. He congratulated the Association of Indian College Principals and Sri Krishna Institutions for successfully organising the event.
 
 More than 300 principals from colleges across the country took part in the two-day event. The vice-chancellor of  , A Ganapathi, too participated in the conference as a special guest. He urged the principals to deliberate on various issues concerning higher education. "I will be more than happy to receive suggestions from the gathering here to improve on the quality of higher education," he said. 
 
 During the conference, delegates discussed the various trends in higher education and the new education policy that is being mooted by the Government of India. Dean, college of business, Clayton State University, USA, addressed the gathering on strategic drivers in higher education, innovation, engagement and impact. 
 
