The family of  , who was sentenced to death by a   for  , left their   on Monday afternoon after the news broke and journalists began gathering to get a byte.

 Friends said Jadhav’s wife, his mother, his son Shubhankar and daughter Bharvi, who arrived at the family’s 502 B Silver Oak apartment at Hiranandani Gardens on a vacation from Pune on Sunday, were left shocked by the news of Jadhav’s sentencing. Just like the Indian foreign office, they did not have the slightest inkling of Jadhav having been put on trial in Pakistan.
 
 Jadhav’s father, Sudhir, and his uncle Subhash, both retired at assistant commissioners with the Mumbai police.
 
 His father now leads a quiet retired life in Sangli in south-west Maharashtra.
 
 Jadhav grew up at the family’s home at N M Joshi Marg, where his childhood friends started a campaign ‘Bring Kulbhushan Back’ after his arrest in March 2016. “We knew that Pakistan will make Kulbhushan another Sarabjit,” said Tulsidas Pawar, Jadhav friend, on Monday.
 
 Jadhav was picked up by Pakistani authorities from the Mashkel region of Balochistan on March 3 last year. India has maintained that Jadhav, a  , was arrested from Iran-controlled Baluchistan, where he was on a business trip. Jadhav’s Indian passport bore a valid Iranian visa L9630722 at the time of his arrest.
 
 Pakistan charged Jadhav with subversion and sabotage and he was sentenced to death by Field General Court Martial under the Pakistan Army Act.
 
 A family friend of the Jadhavs, who did not wish to be identified, said even close friends and relatives are not being allowed into the house. He said there has been no official contact from Delhi with the family yet.
 
 Pakistani authorities said Jadhav’s sentence was based on his confessional statements. Pakistan Defence Minister Khwaja Asif said the sentence would go a long way in acting as a “deterrent” for the other ‘spies’ working inside Pakistan.
 
 Pakistan has claimed that Jadhav was “managing” a terrorist financing and training network and used to operate from Chabahar in Iran, Makran in Pakistan and across a few contiguous pockets of Afghanistan.
 
 India’s requests for consular access to Jadhav have repeatedly been denied by Pakistan despite as many as six note verbales being issued to the Pakistan Foreign Ministry.
 
