NASHIK: The decline in average wholesale price has the   mulling over pushing agencies like the National Agricultural Co-operative Marketing Federation of India Ltd ( ) to   under the   (PSF). 

 The average wholesale   prices have declined to Rs 500 per quintal due to a rise in supply. In a bid to match the demand and supply, the union government is planning to export most of the onions.
 
 The onion export of the country has increased to 16.43 lakh metric tonnes in the first seven months (April-October) of 2016-17 financial year, against 5.07 lakh metric tonnes in the corresponding period last financial year. This has not benefited the farmers as the wholesale onion prices have declined due to a rise in arrival of the produce while they are yet to manage their production cost. Due to this reason, the government has asked NAFED to export onions so that prices will get stabilised.
 
 The production of onions this year has been around 25 lakh metric tonnes. The minimum export price (MEP) of onions is zero and the government has introduced 5% subsidy (MEIS) for onion exporters from August 26, which will be in effect up to March 31. The export has not increased though.
 
 It costs farmers around Rs 950 per quintal for growing onions and they incur losses if they get a price below that. The average wholesale onion price at the country’s largest wholesale market, Lasalgaon Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC), has declined to the range of Rs 500-550 per quintal, putting farmers in huge losses. While the daily arrival of onions is around 15,000 quintals a day at Lasalgaon, it has increased to the range of 30-35,000 quintals a day now. 
 
 A NAFED source said, “We have just conducted a survey at the Lasalgaon APMC to check the possibility of onion exports. We are mulling to export 30 metric tonne of onion a day. It is a part of the government policy to export maximum onions and stabilise the wholesale onion prices so that farmers will not incur losses. The money required for the export is to be used under the PSF.”
 
 
