MUMBAI: In a setback to socialite  , the   declined to transfer the criminal cases filed by her estranged industrialist-husband   from Khar police station to the Mumbai crime branch on Thursday.

 It, however, did quash a non-bailable warrant issued by a magistrate last December against her. A bench of Justices R V More and Shalini Phansalkar Joshi held the warrant was issued without following prior steps of issuing summons.
 
 Significantly , the judges directed that the matter be placed before the HC chief justice for action against “persons responsible for the lapses'' in the magistrate's court in “preponing'' a hearing date and issuing warrant. It was found that on December 2, 2016, the additional chief metropolitan magistrate was on leave. The chargesheet against Poonam was filed before an in-charge magistrate and cognizance taken the same day . The case was adjourned to February 10, 2017, but the date was encircled and December 15, 2016, was mentioned without any counter signature.“Who changed the date is not clear,“ said the HC. Poonam, 48, the second wife of Shroff, had moved court last year seeking a transfer from the Khar police station, alleging bias. Her counsel Amit De sai and   argued that the police were hasty in lodging the FIR filed by her husband and had continued with the probe despite an order from the home department transferring the case. But Shroff's counsel Aabad Ponda argued that Poonam was mistaken in believing it was a transfer order.
 
 Shroff had accused his wife last April of conspiring with a Bengali baba to harm him in a complaint to the Khar police (see box). Poonam denied the allegations and requested the police and the CM to transfer the case from the Khar cops.
 
 “We do not find any merit in the allegation about mala fide, partial or biased investigation by Khar police station,'' the HC said on Thursday .
 
 The HC also accepted public prosecutor  's submission that the additional chief secretary (home) had withdrawn last November a transfer order of September 2, 2016. It directed the police to continue its probe against Poonam, including into an alleged cheating complaint filed before a Bandra magistrate and a non-cognizable case last June.
 
