NASHIK: The 68th   was celebrated with pomp and gaiety on Thursday here with guardian minister Girish Mahajan hoisting the national flag and taking the salute at the ceremonial parade by police during a function organized at Police Parade Ground. 

 The 2017 parade of 2017 was special for two reasons — first, the girl students of the Bhonsala Military School’s Army wing participating in it for the first time and, second, mayor Ashok Murtadak averted a major mishap by controlling a horse that went berserk when the parade was just about to end. 
 
 “There was a chaos when the horse went berserk and the rider, a student of  , falling from it. Murtadak, who was watching the parade from the VIP gallery, rushed into the scene and controlled the situation like an expert,” said Aniket Dave, a student who witnessed the event. 
 
 Hundreds of common people were watching the parade barely a few metres from the horse. Cameras of television channels captured these moments and the video clip of it became talk of the town on Republic Day. Murtadak, a former cop, is not only trained in horse riding, but also has horses in his farm. 
 
 Apart from the main administrative functions, divisional commissioner Eknath Davle hoisted the national flag at his office in Nashik Road and district collector Radhakrishnan B hoisted the flag at his office. Social organisations, NGOs and adventure groups also had a number of programmes lined up. 
 
 Cruzing Gods, a leading bikers’ club in Nashik, organized its annual rally from Model Colony square. This year, the theme of the rally was “Beti Bachao“. The rally passed through Ravivar Karanja, Shalimar, Ganjmal, Sarda Circile, Gadkari Chowk and culminate at College Road. 
 
 Academic institutions also celebrated the day with pomp. At Maharashtra University of Healthy Sciences (MUHS), vice-chancellor Deelip Mhaisekar unfurled the national flag while in Yashwantrao Chavan Maharashtra Open University (MUHS), registrar   hoisted the tricolour.
 
 In Kolhapur, the presentations made by the   constituted by the district police administration turned out to be the main attraction at the Republic Day function on Thursday.
 
 The Kolhapur civic administration had formed the squad last year. The all-women squad is known for its work to stop the incidences such as eve teasing and other crime related to women. 
 
 The squads are special teams are formed on the line of the She Teams in Hyderabad. Many such squads have been set up across the state to prevent eve teasing and to create a safe environment for women.
 
  Students from Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC)-run schools also presented a dance performance based on the theme of unity in diversity.
 
 Over 2,500 students present at the event sang the national anthem together.
 
