CHENNAI: With dengue cases on the rise, insurance companies are targeting customers with awareness campaigns and dengue plans.

 Insurance aggregator PolicyBazaar.com, which has 60 million users on its site buying about 1.2 lakh policies a month, says with the increase in cases down south, more people are buying covers for dengue. “In the northeast, dengue cases are rare. But with more cases being reported in the New Delhi-NCR region and south, there is added interest. We also recommend buying such covers,” says  , business unit head, health insurance, PolicyBazaar.com.
 
 Among insurers, who offer diseases-specific standalone covers, are players like Apollo Munich Health Insurance and   Life Insurance Co.
 
 But why a dengue-specific cover? Don’t normal mediclaim policies cover dengue? “One key reason is affordability. A normal mediclaim policy will cost between Rs 6,000 and Rs 8,000. But a disease-specific standalone cover would cost Rs 250 to Rs 300 (up to Rs 1 lakh cover) which is cheaper,” says  , head product development,  .
 
 “Another benefit is that normal mediclaim policies don’t cover outpatients. If you were to take treatment for dengue at home, with nursing care, diagnostic scans and drugs -- a regular policy won’t pay. But with a specific-dengue cover you get coverage up to Rs 50,000 to Rs 75,000 for a minimal cost,” says Sarin. With dengue affecting more children and the elderly, policyholders find homecare more convenient, say experts.
 
 DHFL Pramerica says another inducement for patients is the easy claims process for disease-specific covers. “In a normal mediclaim policy, you will have to go through a lengthy, rigorous documentation process for claims. Here, it is a very simple, short, one-page form with faster turnaround time for claims payment,” says a company spokesperson. “Also at Rs 365 for a policy, it works out to Rs 1 a day -- far cheaper than a regular mediclaim cover.”
 
 Insurers also say they are trying to create more awareness about dengue. Data with   shows dengue fever claims have risen 124% and chikungunya 78% year-over-year with total number of claims reported across India being 18,157 for the south-based insurer. “While Tamil Nadu has seen quite a few claims. Our highest claims are coming right now from Kerala, particularly in and around Trivandrum. We are working with public health officers to create more awareness in this regard,” says Dr S Prakash, executive director, Star Health.
 
 According to claims data with ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company, there has been a spike in the number of dengue cases last year. With the highest number of claims coming from Mumbai (23%) followed by NCR (22%), Bengaluru (7.66%), Pune (6.28%), Hyderabad (4.89%) and Chennai in sixth position (3.05%).
 
