MUMBAI: The new-found affluence—highrises and sleek cars—hardly camouflage Borivli’s darker side: unclean and cluttered streets, overflowing garbage bins,  , lack of medical facilities at civic hospitals and  .

 “Most maidans have been taken over by some or the other trust, run chiefly by local BJP leaders, that instal unnecessary costly amenities,” Ramchandra Bagwe, a retired insurance employee. “We want our open spaces back. Citizens are made to pay to step into an open ground.”
 
 Claiming that Borivli is paying a heavy price for the half-baked development ideas of politicians and the civic administration, entrepreneur Ramesh Patel said, “No one gives a careful thought to development. Politicians do everything for their profit, while the BMC is indifferent to our day-to-day problems.”
 
 Traffic bottlenecks outside the railway station due to hawkers encroaching the pavement and autorickshaws blocking the road, is a mjaor problem, Patel said. “Traffic management is extremely poor in Borivli. If we retain the BMC in the upcoming elections, we will take up this issue on priority basis,” promised Vilas Potnis, in charge of Shiv Sena’s Mumbai north organizational unit.
 
 The hawkers’ menace and scarce parking space are issues that need to be tackled with an iron hand, said Vinod Chavan, a professional from Vazira area. “Also, no one regulates the serpentine queues of autorickshaws and cars outside the newly opened RTO office for registration and ‘passing of vehicles’,” Chavan added.
 
 MNS corporator Chetan Kadam said, “Traffic snarls, lack of parking space and hawkers are the contentious issues in Borivli. The BMC administration should ensure that plots reserved for parking lots are not encroached upon.”
 
 The suburb is striving to strike a balance between slums, SRA apartments, middle-class townships, such as Yogi Nagar and Siddhartha Nagar in Borivli (E), and highrises. Steady influxes, especially from the island city, have added to this suburbs’ woes.
 
 Many locals alleged a rise in cases of unscrupulous builders duping gullible flat buyers, thanks to an indifferent, corrupt civic babudom. 
 
 In a recent case, residents of Hrishikesh Park in Borivli (W) foiled a builder’s plan to usurp FSI worth Rs 232 crore to build a tower. Having failed to find help from the BMC and the local police, the residents filed an online complaint with the Prime Minister’s Office, following which the civic administration was forced to cancel the construction permission given to the builder. “But not all are fortunate to get the PMO to intervene in such local matters,” said Kewal Parpani, an entrepreneur who has been hunting for a decent dwelling in Borivli for long. “Given the rise in the number of new apartments, the BMC should have in place a foolproof system to curb the greed of unscrupulous builders,” he added.
 
