

 Kolkata-based Nina Ray will not forget the morning when her son hit her. She had refused to re store the internet connection that had fuelled his addiction. It had transformed her shy teenager into a violent person she no longer recognised. Ishan had broken the TV , his father's laptop and even started hitting himself, pricking his head with a safety pin or using a blade to slash his fingers. All for the love of computer games.
 
 Ishan was not usually given to angy outbursts. It was only when he started playing computer games endlessly -for 10-12 hours a day -that things spiralled out of control. In class IX, the Rays got him a computer to reward him for his academic performance. Among the top three students in his class, Ishan's day increasingly became about his online scores. He gave up watching TV or talking to friends. He even ate his meals at the computer table fearing a break might affect his score. By 17, his behaviour had become rough and violent.
 
 "The parents came to us in October 2016 at their wit's end," says Dr Manoj Sharma, additional professor at Nimhans' SHUT clinic (Service for Healthy use of Technology), adding that this is not an isolated case. "It is a worrying sign. When we started the clinic in 2014, there were one or two cases a week. Now we receive five-six cases, and some of them are cases of self-harm." 
 
 Excessive internet use is seen as a behavioural addiction, which means losing the ability to stop going online to the point where it impacts on other areas of your life, including relationships, emotions, social life and school. It has spread like a raging virus among teens and young adults across the world. A recent UK study found that 37.3% of 15-year-olds were extreme internet users, spending at least six hours a day on the net. Nearly all of them were on social media. Studies have confirmed that extreme use of social media is linked to anxiety, depression, attention disorder, and poor social skills.
 
 A 2013 India study on about 1,000 adolescents in Mumbai found that while 0.7% could be called addicts, nearly a quarter (24.8%) were "possible addicts".In India internet use above five hours is considered excessive, says Dr Yatan Balhara from the   internet de-addiction centre. "We have even seen cases where children have been online for 19 hours at a time." But just the time spent online is not so alarming, say doctors. There is reason to worry if excessive use is accompanied by loss of control, neglect of other activities and inability to stop despite the harm it's causing.Among the top Net addictions are gaming, social media and porn, in that order.
 
 The challenge is to recognise that there's a problem. Balhara says it is like addiction to heroin, cocaine or alcohol -the user gets a thrill and comes back for more but there is no obvious sign of "wrongdoing", at least in the beginning.
 
 Many just live in denial.  , 24, is on Twitter, Facebook,   and   through her waking hours.The marketing professional checks Instagram the first thing in the morning, tweets over 10 times in an hour, constantly checks for FB updates. She finds going to a dinner or movie pointless. "My friends are all online. I have a different set of friends on Twitter, who I have never actually met or known but we chat about our interests or whatever strikes the mood," Nair says. It doesn't strike her odd that so many of her "online friends" are not people she has met physically. Nair admits not seeing enough "likes" puts her in a bad mood."I wake up thinking I have 1,000 followers, and only six likes, what is everyone doing?" she asks in exasperation.
 
 While Diya has to keep her obsession in check at work, Rhea Jha, 11, had no such barriers. Fond of storybooks, she began to use Facebook to blog and share her stories. Within two years this seemingly creative activity turned into fullblown compulsive behaviour. Rhea was online five-six hours a day and had built up the persona of a loner who was living with parents who did not love or understand her. She had 400 online followers and praise from them outweighed anything her family might say . Soon, she was losing sleep and her grades slipped.
 
 Adil Khan was a single child whose father would shower him with expensive gifts. But Adil's gaming obsession soon led to him failing a subject, then a class, till he eventually dropped out of school.His need to constantly be online would make him issue threats to end his life by jumping off the balcony of their multistoreyed building in Bengaluru.
 
 Both Rhea and Adil had to go for counselling. Experts say regular counselling, therapy and family support is the only way to reach out to such children. "We advise parents and children to spend time together, talk to each other, ask the child to take interest in other activities, cultivate a hobby or sport," Sharma says. But it is an uphill battle, because slipping back into the wonderful world of internet is just a click away.
 
 
 
 
