Coimbatore: Diwali is just a month away and P Sharadha, a   with the  , is extremely worried. It’s past mid-September, but she has not received her   yet.

 Like Sharadha, about 3,000 sanitation workers, drivers, cleaners and other contract staff of the civic body are facing a similar crisis. The city corporation owes a total of Rs 8cr to the contractor, who has employed the workers. 
 
 S Dharmaraj, a member of Tamil Nadu Thuimai Thozhilalar Sangam, said he doesn’t know how to meet the monthly commitments. “I have to repay a loan and also pay rent for this month. I have no idea how my family will manage,” he told TOI.
 
 About 50 sanitation workers gathered outside the corporation commissioner’s office in Town Hall and demanded that their salary be credited on Monday. City health officer K Santhosh Kumar assured them that their salary would be credited by Monday evening. 
 
 Later, assistant commissioner of the corporation’s accounts department Soundarrajan said they had released Rs 2.5cr to the contractor after the issue was raised and the workers were paid by 7pm. 
 
 A representative of Vardhan Infrastructure, which has taken the contract of sanitation workers in Coimbatore corporation, said the corporation has not paid them for eight months and that was the reason in the delay in the salaries. The contractor gets nearly Rs 1cr as workers’ wage from the corporation. “It is difficult to manage if we are not paid on time,” said the representative. 
 
 The plight of the contractors is even worse as the corporation owes another Rs 135cr for various works that were undertaken in the last three years.
 
 It is not just the sanitation workers who are facing the crisis. Salary of the corporation employees was delayed by a week this month. With the central finance commission not granting funds, it is difficult to manage the day-to-day activities, a corporation official said. “We used to get Rs 40cr from the central government as grant,” We have increased the user charges and hope to sail through the year,” said an official.
 
 The civic body had sent petitions to the State government for more funds, he said. “It is not just us. All the corporations are facing the same problem,” he added.
 
 
