BENGALURU: If the   has its way, Indian coaches will be paid on a par with their foreign counterparts and every sport that the country focuses on, as it prepares its contingent for the Tokyo Olympics, will have a paid chief executive officer and a high-performance director (HPD).

 The task force, which submitted its recommendations for Tokyo, said work on the main report, which encompasses the 2024 and 2028 Olympics is still in progress. The 2020 suggestions now await Centre's approval.
 
 One big change mooted is the formation of an empowered steering committee (ESC) to drive Indian sports. This panel, comprising around nine members, will enjoy full financial autonomy and all schemes and camps run by  , including the Target Olympic Podium scheme for elite athletes, will be managed by the committee. A special cell within ESC will take care of all logistical issues of athletes, so that they can focus on training alone.
 
 HPDs and CEOs employed to run the sports and games for Tokyo 2020 will report to their chiefs in the ESC. "We will have a world-class high performance director and a CEO in the ESC who will oversee the work of their counterparts in each of the sports," sources told TOI.
 
 The panel also wants deserving Indian coaches be paid as much as the foreign coaches. "This factor had led to an inferiority complex among our coaches. We were keen on addressing this. Also, we want former athletes to coach or be support staff of national teams. They need to be paid as well and their employers told that they are 'on duty'. Currently, many of them use their leaves and are not paid a penny extra because they draw salaries from their organisation. This has to change. Also, if these former athletes are away for a couple of years coaching teams, their promotions and seniority too should not be affected," the sources added.
 
 The panel also mooted a Pradhan Mantri Gold Card for elite athletes and their coaches as an identity of being a 'national asset.' This card will provide facilities for emergency quota for air, train, bus tickets and hassle-free access at various places.
 
 Sports sciences too will have to be accorded top priority, the task force said. All recommendations may apply to para sports as well.
 
 The task force is headed by Olympic gold medal winning shooter  . Other members of the task force are hockey coach  , sports scientist GL Khanna, former hockey captain  , journalist  , educationist Om Pathak and DG of Sports Authority of Gujarat Sandip Pradhan, who is also the convenor.
 
 
 
 
