PUNE: The residents of Golden Street in Balewadi have raised health and environment concerns because of a ready mix concrete plant in the area and the civic body is now mulling a criminal offence against the unit operator.

 The company , however, said it had the approval from the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board ( ) to set up the unit.
 
 The residents complained that continuous movement of dumpers throughout the day has been posing risk for the children and senior citizens walking in the area. “Besides speeding, these dumpers carry huge rocks and dump them along the banks of the river.This is much hazardous for the environment, citizen reporter K N Peethambaran said, adding that several complaints have been lodged with the   ( ).
 
 Peethambaran said, “The work was stopped for around 10 days, but it has started again.It's a big problem for us.“
 
 He added that the residents received a few responses from the PMC from its official Twitter handle @PMCCare. The residents re-tweeted their concerns to the PMC, municipal commissioner, the offices of the Prime Minister and the chief minister and also the health and environment ministries.
 
 But as the ready mix concrete plant continued to operate, the residents have been stepped up their protests and continued to raise complaints with the PMC. They also filed an   to get information about the unit from the civic body .
 
 The RTI reply , a copy of which is with TOI, stated that plant has been running without proper permission. “Building permission, PMC has not given permission,“ states the reply to the question “Have the owners taken approval from authorities before starting the constructions of concrete plant?“ Civic body officials said they were taking steps to stop the work. Jalindar Chandgude, health inspector of the Aundh ward office, said, “ Action has been initiated and we have served a notice to them. They have been asked to take necessary sanctions from MPCB.“
 
 Officials in the health department said an action like stopping the plant can be taken by the building building permissions department.
 
 When TOI contacted the building permission department, its officials said the civic administration has taken action against the RMC plant.
 
 “We have slapped a notice on the plant operators and asked them to stop the work.But we have observed that the work has not been stopped. We will now file a criminal offence against them. Police will take further action,“ said Santosh Lanjekar, building inspector of the area.
 
 MPCB, in the meantime, admitted that it had given a permission to the company ,  , to build and operate the ready mix concrete production plant in the area as it is a non-commercial venture.“The company uses the concrete for its own projects in surrounding areas. The permission also mentioned that the structure would be temporary and would be folded up and taken away once its use is no longer required,“ an official in the MPCB's Pune sub-office said.
 
 About the residents' concern related to the fly ash, the official told TOI, “Yes, fly ash is a by-product of the concrete production process. But we will ensure that it does not affect people living around. If we find that is not the case, we will take stringent action against the company .“
 
 S J Contracts Pvt Ltd director Bhargav Jangle said they started production at the plant around 10 days ago only after receiving approvals from MPCB. “We completed the plant installation about a month ago, Even before we commenced production, several residents started approaching us. We waited for the permission before we started operation,“ he said.
 
 “We have maintained a minimum distance of 400m from the plant boundary to the building. Whatever permissions are required are all in place. We have even installed water sprinklers and green screens (towards the building end) to keep the dust down. We have also told the PMC of the permission we received from the MPCB,“ he told TOI.
 
 “If the protests continue, we will have to relocate despite having permissions and spending Rs 15-20 lakh to set up the facility. This is the first time we are facing such a situation. We might explore legal options as well,“ Jangle said.
 
