PUNE: The state Women and Child Development Department (WCD) has not paid   to 1,538 beneficiaries of   scheme for the last four years as the department failed to locate the addresses of victims or victims’ family members.

 The scheme, which compensates victims of  , sexual assault as well as acid attack survivors, was introduced in 2013 post the Nirbhaya incident and provides financial assistance between Rs 2 lakh and Rs 3 lakh and Rs 50,000 for injuries and incidental costs.
 
 Department officials said that they have got addresses from the police department and from the district committee that decides on the compensation but over the four years they have not been able to trace most of the beneficiaries due to reasons such as wrong addresses or because some victims and their families have left the state or due to death of the victim and the next of kin failing to establish relationship with the victim. There also have been cases when the beneficiaries claimed that they don’t have any bank account or the necessary documents to open an account.
 
 ‘We send our team to verify each and every case but sometimes they fail to trace the beneficiaries,’’ stated the official from the department.
 
 The scheme has faced several road blocks such as shortage of funds. From the launch of the scheme in 2013 the department has claimed that it has paid Rs 113 crore for 4,318 cases. While the government had been paying Rs 2-3 lakh, it was only recently that   directed it to pay up to Rs 10 lakh considering the merit of the case.
 
 “Out of the 1,538 beneficiaries, addresses of 544 people could not be found, 748 beneficiaries did not have the required documents, in 33 cases the deceased victim’s kin could not establish their relation while in 127 cases it was believed that they have moved out of the state and in 86 cases there were other issues,’’ stated the official.
 
 Earlier, too the scheme came under the spotlight with the state government not providing the required budget for clearing the cases.
 
 The Bombay High Court recently asked the state government to increase the compensation amount for which minister   told TOI that they would have to check for more allocations under the scheme. NGOs working in the field had pointed out that within two years after launch the scheme faced severe financial crunch. Till April 2015, only 1,178 victims were given compensation by the government. The state government had then claimed to have spent around Rs 27 crore between January 2014 and February 2015 to compensate and rehabilitate the survivors.
 
