GUIRGAON: A city-based tech firm has accused one of its former employees of   sexually explicit videos, some of them allegedly featuring   girls, through a   group.

 The incident reportedly came to light after Karan (name changed) resigned as an assistant sales manager with the company, and returned his official mobile phone along with the SIM card on Thursday.
 
 In her complaint filed at the Sector 18 police station on Saturday, a senior executive of the company alleged that Karan was part of a WhatsApp group which allegedly shared “videos of women and minor girls in compromising positions”. The complainant also shared the numbers of nine other people, who were allegedly part of the group.
 
 However, Karan, who was called for questioning to the police station later in the day, said that his friends had added him to the group and sent those messages, the police said.
 
 The company executive said that Karan, who had joined the company on January 6, 2012, had been given an Apple iPhone 6 and a SIM card, along with an iPad and a laptop, for official use. After he put in his papers on May 9, he was supposed to serve a notice period and hand over the details of his dealings to the person replacing him. But when he refused to do that, he was asked to submit his devices and leave instantly.
 
 But, before giving the phone on Thursday (May 18), Karan apparently got the items saved in the phone memory deleted. Nevertheless, when officials at the company reinserted the SIM card in another phone, numerous explicit videos from a WhatsApp group, called ‘Naadan Parindey’, started pouring in. One of the videos was allegedly of a girl in school uniform “crying as a group of men strip her naked”. 
 
 Also, there were some messages from Karan’s personal number, wherein he asked one Sandeep and Gopal to delete his official number (9871****51) from the group.
 
 “Since it was an official number, we could not get rid of the SIM. But as soon as we inserted it into another phone and activated it, disturbing videos started coming in,” the senior executive told TOI on condition of anonymity. “We don’t know whether those videos were filmed consensually,” the official said.
 
 Ram Kumar, SHO of the Sector 18 police station, said an FIR has been registered under sections 66B (stealing computer resource or communication devices) and 67A (transmitting sexually explicit messages in electronic form) of the I-T Act.
 
