NAGPUR: The   (KEMS), Nagpur, recently revived the scholarship given to needy students through an  , which had been stopped after the death of society president  . In fact, the   offered now is too meagre considering the prestige attached to the scheme. However, the British royal family had some 16 years ago turned down a request by the society to increase the sponsorship amount.

 This year, KEMS has fixed the annual scholarship amount at Rs3,000 for undergraduates, Rs4,000 for postgraduates and Rs5,000 for PhD students.
 
 Associate professor of Shivaji Science College SW Anwane, who is member of KEMS, said the interest accumulated on the endowment fund comes to around Rs45,000, which would be distributed among deserving applicants. When asked if the amount was sufficient, Anwane said, “This scholarship is not run to solve the socio-educational issues of India. It is only meant to encourage budding talent in the best possible way.”
 
 In a letter dated October 31, 2000, Buckingham Palace chief correspondence officer Deborah Bean had expressed the Queen’s inability to help the society financially in response to its honorary secretary TM Karade’s letter.
 
 “Her Majesty has noted the financial difficulties which you are facing in funding the university’s scholarship project. However, I am afraid it is not possible for The Queen to help you in this matter. Her Majesty does give generously to a wide variety of charities and appeals, but it is just not practicable for her to accede to every request, no matter how worthy the cause,” reads Bean’s letter.
 
 KEMS was set up in 1943 with the objective of providing scholarship to promising undergraduate, postgraduate and PhD students in the CP & Berar region on the basis of academic merit. In its recent notification, the society has still maintained that the applicant must be a resident of the region known as Central Province & Berar, which is now spread over Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra.
 
 The scholarship is meant only for engineering, medical and science students. Applicants cannot have repeated the qualifying exam, and should not hold any other scholarship or financial aid. 
 
 Records about the amount spent over the years and number of beneficiaries were not available immediately. Karade, who has been named honorary secretary again, said it is difficult to retrieve the records. “KEMS has never had any formal office. It used to be run from the residence of the secretary.” Karade said he would share them in February when the interviews for award of scholarship begin.
 
 Vijay Naidu, director of Exnet International, which works with UK universities, says he has never heard of a query about KEM scholarships. “If you study the economic affairs of the Buckingham Palace, you would know that the Royalty is getting a certain purse from the UK government. But, they may have trimmed their expenses on charitable and social causes.” 
 
