NOIDA: A youth who got two road accident victims admitted to a hospital on Monday had to spend the night in the lock-up of the Sector 20 police station. While the incident raised questions on the Noida police’s compliance with the Supreme Court’s guidelines which stipulate that people who held victims of road accidents and other calamities should not be harassed in any manner, the police said the 19-year-old Sumit Kumar was brought to the police station for his own safety.

 However, the victim was allegedly locked up along with other criminals, and his mobile phone and scooter keys seized. 
 
 On Monday night, Sumit was waiting near Balak Nath Mandir for his friends, Shubham Kumar (21) and Mohit Sharma (21), who were travelling on a mobike towards Sector 71 to meet him. Their motorcycle was rammed by a Tata tempo from behind very near the spot where Sumit was waiting.
 
 “I was waiting for the two near the mandir when their mobike was hit by a Tata tempo from behind. The collision was so powerful that the two were seriously injured. I picked the two victims, hired an autorickshaw and took them to   in Sector 51, which was the nearest hospital,” Sumit said.
 
 He said Shivalik refused to admit the two saying that they were critical and referred them to a better medical centre. “I them took them to Kailash Hospital in Sector 27, where Shubham was declared brought dead while Mohit was admitted for a serious head injury,” he said.
 
 However, according to the police, when Shubham’s family members arrived at the hospital, his brother Rohit and others started blaming Sumit for the accident. “We got information about a ruckus at Kailash Hospital. When we sent a team there, we got to know that Shubham’s family members are trying to beat up Sumit. We then brought Sumit to the station for his own safety,” Ajay Shai, SHO, Sector 20 told TOI.
 
 Sumit was kept in the lock up from 10.30pm on Monday till 1.30pm on Tuesday. Around 1.30pm on Tuesday, Rohit himself came to the police station and said that Sumit was innocent. 
 
 
