CHENNAI: The recruitment scene for 2017 has kicked off across top engineering colleges inj tamil Nadu, albeit on a tepid note. Most of last year’s early super dream recruiters — who pay more than Rs 10 lakh a year — are back, but may recruit fewer this year.

 In a state where colleges churn out nearly two lakh engineers each year, product companies and start-ups get into recruitment mode early followed by large recruiters, IT services companies, in August.
 
 At Thanjavur-based SASTRA University on Monday, Paypal made four offers (compared to 2 last year) with the highest being Rs 21 lakh. “Some companies dropped out, but we are bringing in more,” said  , dean (planning and development). Symantec, Informatica, Freshdesk, MuSigma are among those in the pipeline at the university where 1,700 students are sitting for placements.
 
 Four to five dream recruiters have in the past couple of days visited Vellore Institute of Technology (VIT), where 3,000 students are seeking placements. “Directi, Paypal, Amazon and DE Shaw have come. We are blocked till August 31 and over 20 companies have registered,” said  , director of placements.
 
 Sridhar Vembu-led Zoho is looking to hire 600-700 (against 800 last year) students. “As a product company, our needs our different from IT services companies. We may hire just 5-10 students from a college but visit as many as 40 colleges. We are taking our time in selecting candidates. Our pay packages will remain around the same as last year, adjusted for inflation,” said Vembu.
 
 Industry sources say product companies will play a larger role. Microsoft, Google, Amazon, Paypal and Zoho are among the corporates that walk in during the first few days.
 
 “We can expect more high-value product players and those in high growth areas like fintech to come in large numbers. Paypackets may not change significantly, but those competent in Artificial Intelligence (AI), Deep Learning, Algorithms, will be rewarded better for proven capability,” said K Ramachandran, head of strategy, 361degreeminds, an e-learning startup.
 
 While Michelin, Justpay and Google have taken SRM University students for internships and permanent positions, others like Amazon and Cisco are expected by the end of the month.
 
 Over 35 offers were made at Velammal Engineering College with Amazon offering Rs 10.5 lakh a year to 11 graduates. Other companies that have visited include Coda Global, Zoho, Maveric Systems and Juspay.
 
 At  , companies like Zoho, Odessa and Lucid made close to 25 offers starting from Rs 6.5 lakh. Phillip Praveen, director, training and placement, said. “There are companies coming in for trained students. We have close to 90 students who are Pega certified which is an automation tool.
 
