KOLKATA: Believe it or not, there’s a waiting period for air-conditioners and refrigerators this summer. Retailers are facing a supply problem for the first time on the back of unanticipated demand, with delays running into two to four days or even more.
 
  March and April reported record sales of the two appliances — an over 25 per cent growth year-on-year. In fact, the two months’ sales equal almost one-third the total sales made in the calendar year 2016, driven by demand from the north, west and south. Last year, air-conditioners and refrigerators grew by 15 per cent and 10 per cent, respectively.
  
  “There is a shortage of popular variants like 1.5 tonne air-conditioners, entry-level models and even inverter air-conditioners for some brands. The supply problem is magnified in air-conditioners since a large number of parts is still imported. Refrigerator manufacturing is indigenous, so the delay in supply is not so much,” said Kamal Nandi, business head, Godrej Appliances.
  
  Kim Ki-Wan, India managing director,   Electronics, said the company has missed out on an additional sales opportunity since no one foresaw such high demand.
  
  “While we have stepped up production and capacity, it is difficult to meet demand and importing components takes time.” LG Electronics air-conditioner sales grew 45 per cent in March-April, while refrigerator sales went up by 20 per cent, including a 40 per cent hike for premium variants of 300 litres and above.   also saw more than 20 per cent growth in these two categories.
  
    grew by 30 per cent and is confident about overtaking the previous fiscal’s performance with 25 per cent growth. Voltas president Pradeep Bakshi said almost 65 per cent of air-conditioner buyers are first-time users, reflecting a buoyancy in the economy coupled with brisk rural demand.
  
  “Last year was good but this year has been unprecedented, with brands too helping consumers with easy EMI schemes.” Nor is the bonanza limited to brick-and-mortar.
  
  Online marketplaces such as   had a record year, with 250 per cent growth in AC sales —compared to 80 per cent growth last year — and refrigerator sales expanding 200 per cent.
  
  Suchit Subhas, director (category management for large appliances), Amazon India said the marketplace has invested in nine dedicated fulfilment centres for these products to deliver within one or two days.
 
  Subhas said Amazon has been able to ensure sufficient inventory with respect to demand on the basis of advance planning with brands since November-December 2016.
  
  The marketplace plans to focus on large appliances in its upcoming sale later this week. Rajiv Kenue, chief operating officer, online exclusive brand Kenstar, said the company has increased sales of air-conditioners by 200 per cent since January and its recent foray into refrigerators too has been successful — with inventory selling instantly. 
