NASHIK: Unions of autorickshaws, trucks and taxis have planned a ‘chakka jam’ on Tuesday protesting the hike in driving licence fee, fitness certificates, etc. at the   (RTO). 

 Commercial vehicle unions’ leaders said that all the vehicles will be off the road on Tuesday to stage a demonstration in front of the Nashik RTO.
 
 Bhagwan Pathak, district executive president of the Shramik Rickshaw, Taxi, Tempo, Truck Chalak Malak Sena said that the Centre on December 29 made one-sided changes in the Motor Vehicle Act 1989. He said that they also increased fees related to autorickshaws, taxis, trucks and tempos. The hike was 10 to 30 times more than the existing fees and no thought was given to problems that the concerned commercial vehicle owners or drivers faced.
 
 Pathak said that even three months back the state government had increased the fees followed by the hike in the fees by the Centre. “the concerned governments are up to throwing the poor rickshaw, taxi drives out of jobs.”
 
 The rickshaw, taxi drivers always have to be at the receiving end at the hands of the police and the regional transport officials for parking their vehicles at undesignated places when the rickshaw, taxi and truck unions have been requesting every often to the concerned departments to increase the number of stands.
 
 Radio cabs like Ola or Uber are operating without having any permission of the police or the government, neither the RTO has any control on them when the rickshaw drivers, who are expected to wear uniforms, badges, carry licenses and documents with them every time.
 
 Pathak said that no action was taken against illegal transport of passengers in Nashik city despite a number of memorandums submitted to concerned departments. 
 
 “While being neglected on all fronts, the Centre and state has gone on to rub salt on the wounds of the rickshaw, taxi and truck drivers by hiking fees. On January 31 all rickshaw, taxi, truck and tempo drivers have decided to stop operations for a day across the state,” he said.
 
  of the Shramik Sena said, “The fees and fines have been increased tremendously. Earlier, if owners of small commercial vehicles like autorickshaw, taxi, mini truck, etc owner could not make it for the fitness test of the vehicle on time, he had to pay a fine of Rs 100 for arriving 15 days late, Rs 200 for coming a month later and Rs 2,400 for coming a year later. Now, there is a late fee of Rs 50 per day. According to the revised structure, the charges are Rs 750 for arriving a fortnight late, Rs 1,500 for being a month late and Rs 18,250 for coming a year later for the fitness test.”
 
 Bindra added that if the decision was taken on December 29, the late fees should have been taken from that date onwards which is not the case.
 
