Chennai: The new Motor Vehicle Amendment Bill 2016, which has been passed by Lok Sabha, would help the insurance industry cut its losses, said experts. For years the industry has been undermined by a particular provision that allows policyholders/family members to file claims any time they want — 10 months or 10 years or even 100 years from the date of the accident.

 “But a new amendment to the Act introduces specific timelines for faster processing of third party insurance claims — a problem that used to bleed the general insurance industry for years,” said Mangesh Gandhi, head, third-party claims, Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co.
 
 The Motor Vehicles Act, which is likely to be passed in the next session of Parliament, directs the victim/family to file such application within six months of the accident. The insurance company is then required to make an offer to the claimant within 30 days of receiving the claim. If the claimant accepts the offer the insurer is liable to make payments within 30 days. 
 
 If he does not, the claim can be referred to the claims tribunal for a hearing.
 
 In the last few years, the Bill has faced objections from the opposition and not been passed. “This time we are more confident that the Bill will be passed in its current form as it has incorporated the recommendations of the standing committee. And the committee had representations from all major political parties so this time we do not expect any opposition to the Bill,” said Gandhi.
 
 Insurers say that the unlimited liability clause was really hurting their bottomline and loss ratio. Faced loss ratios of 110% and higher in motor, insurance companies also found themselves increasingly a target of fraudsters because of this clause. “We are seeing claims reported 10 years after the incident. Apart from the losses we are making because of this clause, we are also straining our books - as we have to set aside reserves to cover any possible future claims. With the new Bill, we need not set aside money for IBNR (incurrent but not reported claims,” said Gandhi.
 
 For the first half of 2016-17, as many as 27 general insurance companies did not report underwriting losses; the exceptions were Bajaj Allianz General Company, Agriculture Insurance Company of India and Export Credit Guarantee Corporation of India - which reported profits. 
 
 The losses were largely due to natural disasters, floods and the drought situation in the south. But the losses were also in part due to motor and health insurance continuing to face very high loss ratios. “With the new Bill you can expect our (industry) losses to come down. And our balance sheet to improve; as we’ll need to set aside less reserves,” said Gandhi. The new bill also makes provisions for creation of a fund for cashless treatment of accident victims during the golden hours. 
 
 Additionally, the Bill proposes to make claims non-payable for drivers without proper licence or permit and driving under the influence of liquor or drugs.Drivers will then have to compensate the victims' themselves without the insurer stepping in on their behalf.
 
 
 
