JAIPUR: Leaders of opposition parties in Rajasthan on Sunday welcomed Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s statement that the people have the right to know the source of BJP’s funds. The PM made these remarks while addressing the national executive meeting of the BJP in the national capital on Saturday.

 Reacting to the statement,   (PCC) president   said, “It’s a good idea for the BJP to reveal the sources of its funds. Journalist   recently revealed how the BJP pays people to troll users of social media. The PM should not stop at making statements. He should follow this up with action. If he is innocent, then a fair probe into the Sahara-Birla papers would exonerate him.”
 
 “The BJP’s case is somewhat unique – it is not enough for the political party to put the sources of its funding in the public domain. We should also have access to the manner in which the RSS, the Bajrang Dal and other affiliate bodies of the BJP raise funds. We are also concerned that it’s not just party funds that go into propaganda. In Rajasthan, for instance, we had massive funds thrown into the BJP government’s third anniversary recently – money was drawn not from party funds but government sources. At a time when poor people are denied their monthly Rs 500 pension, such expenses are a shame. We also need to know how the party funded its massive propaganda campaign ahead of the 2014 Lok Sabha polls. Modiji must not just speak, he must lead by example,” Pilot said.
 
 Amra Ram, secretary of the Rajasthan unit of the CPM, said, “The PM’s statement is just that – a statement. In 2013, when he was the chief minister of Gujarat, he was himself the recipient of funds as the Sahara-Birla papers indicate. The biggest use of black money is in funding elections. The BJP has been accepting funds from large corporate houses and that is not a secret. Modiji speaks one thing for public consumption, and his own actions are not always in accord with what he says.”
 
 Asked what he thought of the PM’s statement, political scientist Pratap Bhanu Mehta laughed: “We’ll talk about it once there is a concrete proposal. There is nothing to react to, for now.”
 
