NOIDA/GHAZIABAD: The special task force of UP Police on Friday night arrested Sunil Mittal, whose son Anubhav is accused of orchestrating a multi-crore   from his base in Noida. This was the STF’s fifth arrest in the case.

 Anubhav (26) was arrested in February for what the   believes is a Rs 3,726-crore scam that operated through social media, enrolled customers through subscription schemes and offered returns in exchange for hitting ‘likes’. He had floated Ablaze Info Solutions as a company to run the scheme, Social Trade.
 
 Sunil was, at one point of time, a director in Ablaze, STF sources said, and a co-accused in the scam. He has been booked under sections 420 (cheating), 467, 468 and 471 (forgery), and 120 (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC in a case filed at Phase III police station.
 
 STF officials said 50-year-old Sunil had been moving from one place to another to evade arrest since Ablaze was busted. Police had raided locations in Noida, Greater Noida, Ghaziabad, Kanpur, Agra and Hapur to find Sunil and Anubhav’s wife Ayushi. Amit Pathak, SSP of the STF, said sleuths eventually tracked Sunil down to Ghaziabad’s Navyug Market on Friday. Police also seized a Ford Endeavour from him.
 
 “During interrogation, he (Sunil) revealed the company was registered on September 7, 2010. Sunil Mittal and Anubhav Mittal were co-directors of the company,” Pathak said. Later, Anubhav made Ayushi a co-director in place of his father, who exited in March 2016.
 
 Raj Kumar Mishra, DSP of the STF, said Anubhav had transferred Rs 5 crore into Sunil’s account on January 13, weeks before the scam was busted. Sunil later started an electronics shop named   in Pilkhuwa, where he is from, but went undercover after his son’s arrest. He reportedly told cops he was not in touch with Ayushi.
 
 Anubhav, who holds a BTech degree,   (40), an MBA who rans Ablaze operations, and   (25), who provided technical support, are already in custody. A business relations manager of a private bank, Atul Mishra, has also been arrested in the case.
 
 Social Trade offered subscriptions ranging from Rs 5,750, Rs 11,500, Rs 28,750 and Rs 57,500. Investors were given a user ID and password and told that they would get some URLs on their phone and would be paid Rs 5 per ‘like.’ The investors were given 25, 50, 75 and 125 URLs on their phones every day as per their subscription plans. The accused told the investors that the company got business from a third party to increase the latter’s online hits on digital platforms, a claim the STF has rubbished. Ponzi scheme investors were also located in Nigeria and Muscat.
 
 The Enforcement Directorate (ED) recently attached property worth Rs 600 crore belonging to Ablaze. But Pilkhuwa is still standing by the Mittals. Shivam Kumar, a shopkeeper and Mittal's classmate, told TOI, “I came to know Sunil Mittal has been arrested. He came two-three days ago over here.I don't know if the father and son are at fault. I cannot say anything about that. Have the police found substantial proof against them so far? We still believe in Anubhav’s innocence because he was a good guy.”
 
 Anubhav’s grandfather Ved Prakash continues to run his grocery shop. “A lot of people do not even know about Sunil’s arrest so far in the village,” he said.
 
 
