NEW DELHI: Monday’s showers choked nearly all 65 points identified recently by the traffic police as the most waterlogging-prone. The traffic crawled in several parts with the worst snarls reported from MB Road, Sarai Kale Khan, South Extension, Aurobindo Marg and RTR Marg.

 The rain that started in the morning and continued intermittently throughout the day resulted in choking almost all low-lying areas in south Delhi, including parts of Mehrauli, Govindpuri, Chittaranjan Park, Greater Kailash, Adchini and Malviya Nagar. The situation was not much better in other parts of the capital.
 
 According to a traffic police estimate, the average speed of the city traffic was reduced to 10kmph for more than two hours in the evening. The worst stretches between 6pm and 10pm were Chirag Dilli, Nehru Place, Modi Mill, Dhaula Kuan and ITO that cater to the maximum volume of traffic. Police officers said even stretches like Chanakyapuri, Shanti Path, Tughlaq Road and Teen Murti Marg, considered free-moving, got choked.
 
 The corporations, however, found waterlogging only in Sangam Vihar. “The monsoon report is compiled till 2pm every day. The report after 2pm will be compiled on Tuesday,” said an official from the central control room .
 
 Senior officials blamed the public works department (PWD), claiming choked drains always cause backflow of water leading to waterlogging. “Every year PWD fails to desilt its drains on time. Our drains are connected with its drains, leading to backflow and waterlogging. We have desilted all our drains,” said a senior official of the east corporation.
 
 He claimed that most of the stretches where waterlogging was reported comes under the jurisdiction of PWD. The east corporation deployed 130 portable pumps, the north 144 and the south corporation 150 pumps to pump out water. New Delhi Municipal Council used 12 portable pumps.
 
 The traffic police said it had categorised the stretches in three groups, with areas like Azad Market, Vayusenabad, PTS Malviya Nagar and RTR Marg marked as the worst affected. The police have listed 167 points that require engineering changes to reduce waterlogging. According to its data, the areas that are found waterlogged more than five times in a season has been categorised as ‘A’ while the ones that are waterlogged lesser number of times were categorised as ‘B’ and ‘C’. 
 
 Police officers said never-ending civic work and construction debris choked pavements and roads, which was the leading cause of waterlogging. Traffic police records showed that 100 new waterlogging points had been created in the past one year due to construction work by Metro and PWD.
 
