NAGPUR: With 3.5 kg of gold already mounted on the wall which forms the backdrop of the idol placed at Sai Mandir on Wardha Road, an additional 7kg gold will be mounted on the platform, pillars and throne-like structure on which Sai Baba’s idol is seated. The project is expected to begin in January 2018.

 Avinash  , secretary of Sai Baba Sewa Mandal that runs activities of the temple, told journalists, “We called skilled workers from Amritsar who have worked on Golden Temple to do the job. They started the work on the backdrop on April 16 and completed it by May 9.”
 
 The total cost of the gold panelling was Rs1.25 crore. The gold used was purchased through a tender procedure and a part of it had also been given by donors. Explaining the need to undertake this activity, Shegaonkar said that they wanted this temple which is known as the Shirdi of Vidarbha to look like the original one.
 
 The trust also plans to put up a state-of-the-art shade in the huge courtyard in front of the temple with the help of a corporate donor. “We want a shade and an elevated platform of marble or granite on which devotees can sit and rest,” Shegaonkar said. There are also plans to create a multilevel parking which can accommodate around 100 cars within the temple premises. “We plan to put all the shops on the right side of the premises. Starting from the mahaprasad distribution area to where the shops are, we will develop the parking,” said  , chairman of the trust.
 
 Elaborating on the various social initiatives that the trust has undertaken in the past year since current executive body took over, Yadav said, “We started the distribution of mahaprasad of masala bhaat and sheera after both the aartis at 12pm and 6pm. We are also looking for a 10,000 sqft space around the temple where we can carry out various medical initiatives for the needy.”
 
 The activities to mark the 100 years of Sai Baba’s Samadhi will commence from Dusshera this year and will continue till Dussehra in 2018.
 
