SURAT: While the residents in the walled city have applauded the bold measure taken by the city police commissioner to   from Delhi Gate to   for two hours each in the morning and evening hours, a strong demand has been made to permanently ban the autos on Rajmarg and remove the encroachments on the pavements by the shopkeepers and vendors in order to ease the  . 

 After lifting ban on the entry of four-wheelers following public outrage, the city police commissioner had imposed ban on autos plying on Rajmarg from Delhi Gate to Chowk Bazaar from 10 am to 12 pm and from 5 pm to 7 pm last week.
 
 Hitesh Thakkar, a farsan shop owner at Bhagal said, “The autos are real menace on the entire Rajmarg. Since the day the entry has been restricted for four hours in a day, we have heaved a sigh of relief. They (autowallas) park their autos right in front of our shops and wait for the passengers, thereby creating traffic jam. It is our humble request to the city police to extend the ban for full day in order to ease traffic flow.”
 
 Another resident,  , a shop owner at Bhaga Talav said, “We really appreciate the step taken by the police commissioner. For four hours in a day, the entire road looks really nice without traffic. It is the autowallas who are responsible for the traffic jam in the entire city. At least on Rajmarg, they should be banned for the whole day.”
 
 As the autos have been banned for four hours in a day, the pedestrians and daily travelers have to face difficulties traveling between railway station and Chowk Bazaar. However, many wait for the city buses on the crossroads at Bhagal and Chowk Bazaar for their travelling needs. 
 
 “It is good that the autos have been banned on Rajmarg, but police must think about the travel needs of general public like us. We have to wait for buses for long time as they are less in numbers,” says Niyati Patel, a college student from Varachha. 
 
 RTI activist Rajesh Modi told TOI, “I have written to the police commissioner to implement stringent traffic rules for auto drivers like wearing badge, uniform, metering system and seating capacity. Banning autos for few hours won’t serve the purpose. Police have to work tirelessly by removing all street vendors on Rajmarg to ensure smooth movement of traffic.”
 
 Talking to TOI, police commissioner Satish Sharma said, “The root cause of traffic snarls in the city is the increasing population of auto-rickshaws. We have been experimenting with the ban on autos on Rajmarg for four hours in a day. This is going to be a permanent arrangement. We are also ensuring that the auto drivers follow the traffic rules.”
 
 Sources said that the police have started the exercise of providing permanent auto stands in various parts of the city.
 
 
