New Delhi: The   from  ,  , has been elected for the position of mayor in   Delhi Municipal   in the inaugural session of newly constituted house that took place at Civic Center on Thursday. Vijay Kumar Bhagat, who represents Swami Sharda Nand Colony located near Bhalswa landfill site, has also been elected unopposed as her deputy.

 Speaking to TOI about her immediate agenda, Aggarwal said that her focus will be on “the 3S which is Swachhta, Shiksha and Swasthya. We have also decided to get rid of dark spots in our areas on war-footing.” On being asked about how she will handle the financial crunch of the civic body that has even failed to pay salaries to its employees, she said, “The talks are on about that. We are trying and will soon come out with a concrete step to remove this problem.”
 
 In all, 103 new councillors took the oath of office before electing holders of key posts like mayor, deputy mayor, standing committee chairman. Bypolls will be held in one of the overall 104 wards – Sarai Pipal Thala, where elections could not be held on account of the death of a candidate.
 
 Despite prior warnings, tight security measures and even use of bouncers, many supporters of new corporators managed to enter the house. Many councillors opted to be administered oaths in Maithili, showing the increasing clout of Purvanchali section in the new house. Despite the warnings by municipal secretary, almost every new corporator raised slogans after taking their oath. 
 
 Although there were seven nominations for the six posts in standing committee — a powerful deliberative body where the proposals and policy documents are deliberated upon before being forwarded to house for final approval — and elections were to be held but BJP’s Adesh Kumar Gupta’s last minute withdrawal on nomination paved the way for other six to be elected unopposed.
 
 Apart from Tilak Raj Kataria from Shalimar Bagh who has been nominated for the post of chairman of standing committee, the other five members who have been elected as committee’s members are BJP’s Ramesh Kumar Valmiki (East Patel Nagar) as deputy-chairman of standing committee; Jai Prakash (Sadar Bazar), Jayendra Kumar Dabas (Rani Khera) along with Congress’s Seema Tahira (Bazar Sita Ram) and AAP’s Vikas Goel (Wazirpur).
 
