HYDERABAD: Obesity kills not just your heart but kidneys too.To ensure healthy kidneys,   are focusing on cutting obesity on   that falls on Thursday this year.

 In response to a joint call by the International Society of Nephrology (ISN) and the International Federation of   Foundations (IFKF), city kidney specialists recommend a healthy body mass index (BMI) to keep kidney problems at bay .
 
 According to a joint statement by ISN and IFKF , obesity has become an epidemic. Being overweight and obese constitutes the fifth highest risk factor for adult deaths. “Obesity causes both direct and indirect damage to kidneys. It is also recognised as a risk factor for kidney stones, and for kidney cancer.People, who are overweight or obese, have two-seven times more chances of developing end-stage renal disease compared to those of normal weight,“ the statement says.
 
 Dr Mohammed A Rafey , senior consultant nephrologist and hypertension specialist,  , Hyderguda, says diabetes remains the most common cause of kidney failure. With increasing prevalence in the city, patients with kidney disease are expected to rise. Doctors are reporting higher incidence of kidney failure in young patients too due to hypertension and protein loss in urine.
 
 According to senior nephrol ogist Dr Ravi Kumar of MaxCure Hospitals, diets rich in sodium and carbohydrates have been found to be one of the reasons for kidney ailments in children. “About 20 paediatric kidney stone cases are reported every year in our hospital. This is due to food habits and environmental changes. These cases are seen mostly in the age group of three to 12 years. There is a 10fold increase of this condition every year,“ he adds.
 
 Dr Dilip M Babu, consultant nephrologist, blames kidney diseases on uncontrolled blood sugars and blood pressure. “Uncontrolled blood sugars and high prevalence of diabetes in Hyderabad is predominantly due to rice-eating and non-vegetarian (red meat) population,“ he says. Dr Sanjay Maitra, senior consultant nephrologist, said, “about 30-65% of the urban population is either overweight or obese in India and Hyderabad is no exception.“
 
