PUNE:   who were not ready to go   during the first few days after  , are now ready to do so. 

 Things are slowly but steadily moving towards cashless options in the wholesale market which, until a few days ago, was heavily dependent on cash. A mere 5% of the transactions at the vegetable, fruit and foodgrain markets here used to be cashless. That has now increased to about 25% of the total transactions.
 
 Vijay Kadam, a wholesaler in the city's  , now pays farmers through cheques and accepts cheque payments from retailers. 
 
 An official from the   (APMC) confirmed e-transactions have received a positive response from wholesalers and farmers. The committee held meetings to educate them on e-transactions.
 
 "Initially, there was a significant drop in daily sales because of the cash crunch. The supply has increased in last two weeks and the markets are recovering. To enable farmers and transporters to switch to cashless transactions, APMC provided swipe machines at the petrol pump at Market Yard," the official said.
 
 For the last few days, about 800-900 truckloads of vegetables and fruits are being unloaded daily at the yard. Right after demonetisation, this had fallen to fewer than 500 trucks. 
 
 Prashant Satav, a wholesaler, said unlike other markets, daily business at the Market Yard is cash-driven. "Most farmers who bring their produce to the market don't even have bank accounts," he said, adding that many wholesalers had accepted old notes after the ban, but had since discontinued the practice as it was not sustainable. 
 
 Balu Girme a fruit-seller from the Pune station area, said he would from now make a monthly payment by cheque to his wholesaler. "I take cash for fruits, but the money is sufficient for my family's needs," Girme said.
 
 Sources point out that the local markets in rural areas were also on the road to recovery, after initial losses. "The auctions had remained suspended for almost two weeks in many markets due to cash crunch," sources said.
 
 
