BENGALURU: Instead of discussing civic infrastructure and projects at the monthly corporation council meeting on Tuesday, corporators nearly came to blows over allegations of corruption and the infamous diary scam.

 Mayor G Padmavathi broke for lunch early, but when the councillors failed to settle down after reconvening, she adjourned the meeting without the agenda for the day being taken up.
 
 Only a few items on the agenda were taken up for discussion before Yeswantpur councillor G K Venkatesh held up a blank CD, claiming it contained proof of spurious conversion of B khata documents into A khata.
 
 Corporators said this was resulting in losses to the corporation. In 2015-16, 83 khatas in Chandra Layout and 30 in Govindrajnagar were spuriously handed out, said  . BBMP commissioner Manjunath Prasad said the matter would be looked into by the taxation and finance standing committee and discussed in the next session.
 
 But accusations and allegations flew to and fro, and the infamous diary — which allegedly has details of money paid to the Congress high command — came up. Opposition members, led by Padmanabha Reddy, raised anti-Congress slogans. The mayor adjourned the meeting for lunch before time.
 
 “The people of Bengaluru can see you, and you are letting them down. The council hall demands a sense of decorum and all of you must follow it. You are allowing petty politics to stop you from doing your work,” said mayor Padmavathi but her pleas had no effect on the corporators.
 
 The council was reduced to utter chaos as Padmanabha Reddy, Umesh Shetty and other council members pushed and shoved one another, knocking down furniture and shouting.
 
 After lunch, the situation was no different as opposition members refused to quieten down. The mayor was forced to adjourn the post lunch session as well. Outside the council hall, former mayor Manjunath Reddy and Congress corporators staged an anti-BJP protest.
 
 “This is a black day in the history of BBMP. The opposition leaders and members have allowed a small issue to disrupt the session by resorting to gundagardi,” he said.
 
 Before the commotion broke out, several corporators, including former mayor Shanthakumari, raised complaints about the implementation of welfare schemes in the city. “These schemes are the main way for us to help the poor. Without any progress being made in the last two years, they have again called tenders for 2017-18. There are unnecessary procedural delays,” said Shanthakumari.
 
 Padmavathi said that within 30 days all joint commissioners concerned should have prepared a list of beneficiaries and ensure their accounts are set up to receive the funds, and JCs being held accountable for the same.
 
 Padmavathi also rejected the proposal to rename   in Chamrajpet after meeting protestors led by writer  . The protestors staged a dharna outside the council hall. She said that the road was named in honour of a famous personality and that it should remain as is.
 
 The order on submission of standing committee reports to the council and discussion of the status of the halted skywalk were not taken up.
 
