
 When Dinesh Khattar took over as the principal (officiating) of Kirori Mal College in 2015, he tells that the college was in a state of chaos. "When I took charge, the college was in a state of mess. My first task was to improve the administration so that the staff and students could work in harmony. After that, I diverted my attention to the college's auditorium which had been in a dilapidated condition for almost a decade," Khattar says. "Our college is not only known for its academics, but is also popular for its extracurricular activities across the country," he adds.
 
  
  
 
  Players, which is their dramatics society, has had members like  , Satish Kaushik, Ali Abbas Zafar and  , among many others. "The stage had nurtured all of them. With the help of our alumni like Satish Kaushik and Amitabh Bachchan, we have been able to collect funds for the auditorium. We are yet to do a lot in this regard. Since I am the officiating principal, people also think that the work of the auditorium might stop if I am relieved from my duties. But we have a working committee which will ensure that the working is not affected despite the absence of a principal. Main rahoon na rahoon, auditorium ka kaam chalta rahega," he says. "Though I have been the principal from last two years, I make sure that I start my day by taking one of the classes for the students of Mathematics (Hons)," adds Khattar.
 
 
  
 When I first came to India in 2013, I didn't face much problem with the language, but the course was huge and I needed help in my studies. And I must say, Indians are really helpful. My friends and teachers not only helped me in learning Hindi, but they also helped me with their notes and books. Back home, people are competitive and sometimes, they might not even share their notes. But here, it's different. This is like my second home and I love India for everything it has given me. For all the international students who want to come here to study, I would like to tell them that they are going to be in a good place and will enjoy here thoroughly. It's the beauty of the people living here. If foreign students are fluent in English, all they need is to learn some Hindi words, which can be really helpful.
 
  
  
 
  
 Not many would know that before taking admission at the  , singer and doctor Palash Sen studied at Hans Raj College for a year. "I was there for a year while I was preparing for UCMS. I met my wife (Shalini Sen) at Hans Raj. We both were pursuing BSc (Zoology) and the biggest achievement that I have from that college is my wife," he says.
 
 
  
  During his one year in DU, Palash Sen won competitions at famous DU college’s annual fests, but couldn’t win at IIT-D’s Rendezvous and lost to KK, who was studying in KMC
 
  He adds, "I must say that I have learnt a lot from my alma mater. We got to meet people from different strata of the society and it also made us sensitized towards them. That was also the time when I started my band Euphoria. I remember, all my juniors were the first fans of the band and all my classmates were like my crew members who would help me put posters and always encourage me. I used to stay on the seventh floor of the hostel and all the cool people used to live on that floor. So, whoever wanted to listen to any kind of music, they would come to the seventh floor. That floor of my hostel was also the inspiration for my first song which was called Heaven On The Seventh Floor. While I was in DU for a year, I had won something at almost all the college fests - be it  's annual fest Mecca, SRCC's Crossroads or Miranda’s Tempest. I did not win at only one place, that was IIT-D's fest, Rendezvous. And you know who did I lose the competition to? I lost it to the great KK who was in KMC."
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 The admission season in DU kicked-off with cut-offs going as high as 99.66%. But majority of colleges also saw a dip in the cut-offs as compared to the last few years. While some students, despite getting a decent score, aren't able to get admission in the college of their own choice, some manage to pass through, courtesy the ECA and sports quota. When we asked DU aspirants about whether this quota should be in rule or not, here's what they had to say: 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
