PATNA: The six-lane high speed Kachchi Dargah-Bidupur bridge, one of the country’s longest bridges on the Ganga and a pet project of CM Nitish Kumar, is likely to be delayed by at least two years.

 While laying the foundation stone of the bridge on January 31 last year, the CM had set February 2019 deadline for completion of the project. However, if sources are to be believed, the construction work is unlikely to be completed before 2021 due to delay in land acquisition. 
 
 Sources said the project was delayed despite state government’s decision to acquire over 200 acres of land, as per the urgency clause in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013, by paying four times the current land price. 
 
 On Wednesday, the concrete-laying of the well foundation sub-structure started on the Raghopur side. Bihar State Road Development Corporation Limited (BSRDCL) has signed a joint EPC contract of Rs 3,115 crore with Korean firm Daewoo Engineering & Construction Company Limited and Larsen & Toubro Limited. The project entails an expenditure of Rs 4,988.40 crore, including the cost of 13 km-long approach road.
 
 Upon completion, the 9.76km bridge will provide easy roadway access between north and south Bihar, linking the two major highways – NH-30 and NH-103. The bridge is touted to reduce the load on Mahatma Gandhi Setu and the traffic within the state capital.
 
 Sources in BSRDCL said altogether 67 well foundations will be constructed for the corridor and each well, 53 metre deep, will take six months for completion.
 
 “The bridge, combining elements of pre-stressed box girder and cable-stayed bridge, will be one of the longest in the world. With each navigable span ranging 150 metre, the bridge deck will be 10 metre above highest flood level, allowing even large ships to pass,” said BSRDCL general manager Sanjay Kumar.
 
 Altogether 1,002 pile foundations, 945 viaducts, 70 concrete girders and 16 steel girders will be the major structures of the project. Two large barges with freight capacity of 10 trucks will be used by BSRDCL for material transportation from Patna during monsoon. 
 
 
