RAJKOT: The gang rape   in Naliya town of   has alleged that she was offered Rs 1 crore by the men of  , one of the key accused in the case, to refrain from  

 Addressing media persons in Madhapar near Bhuj on Sunday, the woman said, “When I gave an application to the police on January 12, Solanki’s men came to my house and first offered me Rs 50 lakh. They raised the amount to Rs 80 lakh and finally offered me Rs 1 crore to not lodge a police complaint.”
 
 The survivor also identified one woman, locally known as ‘bhabhi’ whose name has cropped up prominently in the case. “Bhabhi used to make chappatis in Lohana Bhavan. She is not directly involved in the case but she is aware of everything,” the woman said. 
 
 Police have already recorded the statement of ‘bhabhi’ and she has claimed innocence in the case. She also named another girl Payal who she alleged runs a racket of supplying girls in the town. “Payal was along with me when three men had raped and dumped me near the sea coast. She had got down from the car midway,” the rape survivor alleged.
 
 She also alleged that the men who raped her also blackmailed her and abused her verbally. 
 
 Meanwhile, the three arrested accused Govind Parumalani, Ajit Ramvani and Vasant Bhanushali, were remanded to 12-day police custody by a local court. Ramvani and Bhanushali are BJP corporators in the Gandhidham municipality but they have been suspended by the party after their names surfaced in the rape case. Parumalani was the general secretary of Gandhidham BJP unit. The woman also said that Ramvani had helped her get a special card from the BJP. 
 
 The woman has already alleged that a well-oiled sex racket, which involves local politicians and influential people, who victimize several girls, is being run.
 
 Meanwhile, Leela Ankolia, member of the State Commission for Women, has demanded monetary compensation for the rape survivor. The district administration has begun the process to give her Rs 1 lakh while the district protection officer will also give Rs 1 lakh considering this as a special case.
 
 
