 ! Salt is a flavor enhancer, thus if salt is removed from a formulation, the flavor will be negatively affected. When we consume the right quantity of salt, it can be beneficial to our health. Salt is essential because it contains sodium and chloride, which the body doesn't produce on its own. But anything in excess is harmful. People with high blood pressure are often unaware of their high dietary salt consumption. The more salt you consume, the higher your blood pressure rises.
 
  Past research proves that people with high blood pressure crave salty foods. University of Sao Paolo in Brazil conducted a study in which they divided 118 people into four groups, keeping in mind their age, physical health and prior history of blood pressure problems. The groups without high blood pressure were considered healthy. Each participant was given the option of various French breads such as lightly salty, medium salty and highly salty. They found that healthy group (young) chose the lightly salted bread; where as the older healthy group choose the medium salted bread. Both high blood pressure groups went for the highly salty bread.
  
  Unknowingly we eat much more salt than our need. Nearly more than 75 percent of the sodium we eat comes from packaged and restaurant food. In case of ordered packed processed food it is difficult to control how much salt we need, since it is already added to our food. Of course in restaurant we can alter menu by instructing them to use half of the salt quantity.
  
  Tips to reduce salt-
  1. Check the sodium content of the menu items and order less salty food dishes.
  2. Control portion sizes. Check whether smaller portions are available for a dish or share the meal with a friend or pack the extra portion and eat after come time or give to supporting staff like driver.
  3. Foods that are steamed, baked, grilled, poached or roasted may have less sodium.
  4. Lemon and pepper are especially good on fish, chicken, and vegetables and reduces need of salt for taste purpose.
  
  Most of us should keep sodium intake below 2.3 grams a day. If you have high blood pressure or above 50 years of age, cut back to 1.5 grams. Cut the salt not the taste of life your life.
  
  
 
  
  
