CHENNAI:   is an aerospace engineering graduate who decided to take on the toughest public service test in the country - the UPSC exam. The Nagaland native had a pick of choice among institutes in Delhi but eventually enrolled at a centre in Chennai. 

 "The studying environment here is good and I find it a lot safer in Chennai," says the 22-year-old student of Officers IAS Academy in  , who wishes to crack IAS. 
 
 Susheela Kumari A, from Bihar, is a commerce graduate who enrolled last month to fulfil her husband's wishes of making her a civil servant. "By making this career choice, I want to prove that women can do everything and do any kind of profession. I find centres in Chennai as good as Delhi," says the 22-year-old. 
 
 These two aren't the only odd ones in this cluster. Scores of students from across the country are choosing Chennai for UPSC coaching.   S, 21, a native of Madurai and IRS aspirant, finds that the city has good faculty and is different from the large-scale coaching facilities in Delhi. "This helps students pace themselves better and it's not as overwhelming. Also, there's less spoon-feeding," she says. 
 
 Now, there are around 50 UPSC coaching institutes scattered across Anna Nagar, which has become a hub for civil service coaching. Several institutes in this cluster report that the student diversity has been increasing over the past few years."One of our family friends recommended a few centres here and we have come to check them," says a mother-daughter duo from Kozhikode, Kerala who were locating an institute in Anna Nagar.
 
 "We have many students from neighbouring states like Telangana and Kerala. But this time, we have students from as far as Jammu and Punjab, despite a huge chain of centres in Delhi. Upon interviewing them, we found many students find Chennai to be more affordable without compromising on quality," says D Shankar, director of  . 
 
 This has driven up the number of batches across these institutes. Israel Jebasingh, founder of Officers IAS Academy adds that Chennai also offers a safer environment to study as compared to the capital. "We have gone from seven students in 2012 to more than 1,000 students and even more inquiring. A vast number of these candidates are not from  ," he adds.
 
