Cleared/Anil

 Coimbatore: The political drama unfolding in Chennai has badly hit the bureaucrats in the city. Confused and unaware on how to take projects forward, they have held-up several inaugurations and launch of major projects. Though the Kalaiarangam building was recently renovated, authorities are unable to rent it out as it has not been officially inaugurated by the local administration minister, S P Velumani.
 
 Also, construction and debris waste recycling plant has been stuck as the contractors await an official function to start the work. They said they were worried about landing in trouble if they were to go ahead with the work before the project was officially launched by MLAs and ministers.
 
 The construction and debris waste recycling plant was sanctioned in December last at an estimated cost of Rs9 crore. The work order was also issued for the project and the contractors had scheduled to complete the work in three months. But due to the current political situation, they are hesitant to begin the project. They said the minister might get offended if the project was begun without laying foundation stone for it. 
 
 “In our state, ministers are often an important part of project inaugurations. Even de-silting of lakes takes place only after the ministers inspect the lakes. But now, we are confused whether to start the work,” said a corporation official.
 
 Another issue the civic body faces is the inauguration of Kalaiarangam, a corporation complex used for cultural events and commercial exhibitions. “The building was renovated months ago and the minister was to inaugurate it. But after Amma’s demise, cyclone Vardah and jallikattu issue, the minister could not give us the time. Many people are approaching us for bookings, but we do not know if we should take them up or lose the revenue,” said a representative at the Kalaiarangam.
 
 The civic body, however, plans to inaugurate a smart city exhibition at the building, this weekend.
 
 K Kathirmathiyon, secretary of Coimbatore Consumer Cause said it was not just the corporation but all government departments had been facing the same problem. “The highways department had sanctioned many projects, but is unable to take them forward as the ministers and MLAs need to be consulted. Apart from the administrative-level work, ministers’ consent is required for many projects. With them confined inside the Koovathur resort, everything is stalled,” he said.
 
 Other consumer activists said many policy level decisions such as amendments and bills were also pending.
 
 If the MLAs don’t return to their constituencies and tend to their work, the state would soon face a lot of issues, said government officials. “Since demonetisation in November, lot of works have been held up. We want the political crisis to end soon so that works could be carried out in the city,” said a city-based industrialist.
 
 
