The theme for this year’s   is ‘Listening to young voices’. While celebrations across the world to mark this day will veer around this theme, closer home, youngsters are using creative mediums including street plays, birdwatching events and social media campaigns to highlight serious wildlife related issues. We update you on this initiative that aims to motivate the city youngsters.

 
 
 In a bid to enhance awareness about the importance of conservation, habitat loss and effects of de-forestation on wildlife among the common people, city youngsters have decided to use visual medium to draw everyone’s attention. Elaborating on this, one of the organisers of this awareness endeavour, Kumar Ratudi says, “We are staging three street plays today at Tajbagh dargah, Sakkardara and Indora, respectively. The theatrical campaign begins at 10am and ends at 1pm. Each play will highlight different issues related to wildlife. For example, we are staging a play on the life of a deer’s family and how urbanisation in the city has forced these beautiful animals to search for a new home. Also, we are staging a play which will highlight the effects of poaching on a family of tiger. The idea is to strike a connect with the people through these plays and that’s the reason why we have chosen some of the busiest streets in the city to stage these plays.”
 
 
 While some youngsters are resorting to street plays to raise their voice on myriad issues, others are teaming up with local wildlife conservationists. MBA student Sumit Paliwal shares, “We are organising a series of events starting from today for the youngsters. As part of the World Wildlife Day celebrations, we have organised two workshops, wherein we will inform the youngsters about the resident birds of the   region.” To this conservationist Dr   adds, “We are organising a fun activity called Nagpur Bird Race — a birdwatching activity for the youngsters. More than 150 youngsters have registered with us. As a part of this activity, we are sending each team comprising five members to the birdwatching destinations like Gorewada, Tilhara Lake and Ambazari etc., where some of the best species of resident birds can be spotted in their natural habitat. We have also roped in birders who are providing scientific information on these resident birds to all the participants.”
 
 
 
 Quite a few city youngsters have taken it upon themselves to spread awareness on the important issues that are endangering region’s wildlife. And what better way than starting a social media campaign to educate the masses. Conservationist Abhishek Srivastava says, “We are staring a social media camping today. We have already created a group on WhatsApp and we are urging many more youngsters to join in with us. Here, we will share information and videos on the current wildlife issues including poaching and habitat loss in the region. Also, we have created this group so that people can update us on current wildlife issues. We are also planning to start Twitter and Facebook campaigns soon to engage more people.”
 
