Monsoon and music have an eternal bond. For eons stalwarts of both Hindustani classical and Carnatic music have been drawing inspiration from the season and have aptly imbibed its essence in many of their compositions. And celebrating one such maestro on Friday, three eminent artistes —  ,   and   — paid a tribute to   by performing some of the 
legend’s favourite compositions on raags such as Desh and Megh.
 
 The performance celebrated the 16th edition of the thematic musical festival ‘Barkha Ritu’ at Rabindra Bharathi in the city. Around 300 audiophiles gathered at the venue to savor the season’s fervor in the artistes’ renditions and were aptly rewarded. 
 
 
 
 
 
 The concert kicked off with a jugalbandi between flautists Rakesh Chaurasia and S Shashank. Weaving elements of both Hindustani and Carnatic musical sensibilities, both the performers set the tone for the evening with a composition on raag Desh. The audience was glued to their seats as both the wind instrumentalists took turns to improvise on the composition and were aptly supported by   on tabla and Parupalli Phalgun on mridangam. 
 
 The energetic notes on the flutes, subtle rolling on the percussions coupled with rapturous applause from the audience reverberated in the auditorium reminding many of sounds of heavy downpour on tin roofs. 
 Next up was Kaushiki. She commenced her vocal rendition with Garaje Ghata Ghana, a melodious composition on raag Megh, and followed it up with a tillana by M Balamurlikrishnan.
 
 Kaushiki’s mastery over minute intricacies of the raag coupled with Satyajit’s consistent lay and Tanmay Deochake’s aptly blending notes on the harmonium, it was a dreamlike experience for the gathering. 
 The vocalist from the Rampur-Sahaswan gharana concluded her concert with a kajri on raag Majh Khamaj. Titled Savanki Ritu Aayi, the semi-classical composition garnered warm appreciation from the audience. 
 
 As the audience made their way towards the exit, their facial expressions were worth a thousand words — it was an enchanting evening of classical Indian music.
 
 
