BHUBANESWAR: With the capital being accorded the   tag, the   (BDA) is acting smarter by focussing on bringing in reforms into its existing planning and building rules. 

 This will pave the way for organized growth of both commercial and residential buildings that will have the required safety features and amenities. The plan has taken note of anomalies in the previous norms. The move will involve all stakeholders such as developers, architects, planners, archaeologists, government agencies associated with urban development and officials of BDA and Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC). 
 
 Official sources said the new regulation will include how to ensure structural and fire safety, making provisions for differently-abled persons and children and conservation of heritage while planning and giving approval to the applications. 
 
 Civic body sources said the new regulations will be incorporated in BDA (planning and standard) regulations, 2008. A draft has been prepared and after taking suggestions from the stakeholders, the new rules will be incorporated. It will then be on public domain to seek opinion of people. "The final draft then will be prepared and sent to the government for approval," said BDA planning member  . "There are a lot of challenges to redesign the city after it was accorded the Smart City status. We need to have multi-pronged approach so that the plan can be futuristic," Mohanty added.
 
 It will also include fresh provisions related to layout of different sizes of lands for residential, commercial and mixed-use types. 
 
 The city has around 22 shopping malls, eight cinema halls, four big markets, around 700 apartments, around 35 office buildings and 60 private offices.
 
 The BMC in February formed a joint fire safety enforcement squad, which has now started working to identify the buildings violating the norms.
 
 Earlier, in a similar move, the   (NIUA), a Delhi-based autonomous body functioning under  , had given a proposal to the BDA to create a children-friendly smart city hub in Bhubaneswar.
 
 
