When you enter the outpatient department of the Government General Hospital, Park Town — you will encounter a slew of cheerful patients. And they have only one person to thank, their physiotherapist, S   Santhosam. “They look at me as a woman and not as a  . That really makes a difference,” begins Selvi, who owns a clinic at Maduravoyal. She reminisces how Muthuselvan (her earlier name) came to Chennai with the dream of becoming a doctor. 

 “My parents, Raj and Iniammal, always wanted me to become a doctor but I didn’t score enough marks in class 12. So, everyone suggested me a paramedical course. In 2001, I joined Vels University, where I studied physiotherapy. I continued to be a guy during those days, but I did realise the small changes that were happening in me,” shares Selvi, who started her career as a physiotherapist at YMCA, Nandanam. “A professor and his family were my mentors when I was in college,” she adds, “They helped me a lot and were always my support. After my stint with YMCA, I joined Madras Cricket Club (MCC), where I started treating sports persons. In fact, I remember treating Lakshmipathy Balaji during the first season of IPL. By then, the change was evident, I started dressing like a girl. I had to face a lot of issues — the basic one was using bathroom. I used to dress in salwars, and later, changed to sportswear when I went to the ground. A lot of people started making fun of me. They used to say derogatory comments and looked down upon me. Many have a notion that transgenders are prostitutes. Thankfully, with the support from a few friends and club members, I was able to cross that horrible phase of my life.
 
 Selvi finally got her sex reassignment surgery done in 2010. After a month’s rest, she was back to work. By then, the management had decided to oust her from work. “Those were my days of agony. Quite disappointed, I started gaining confidence, and opened my own clinic. But the money I was earning by curing patients was not enough, so I started working as a security guard in a software company. I remember the day when the male watchman recognised me as a doctor on my first day and saluted me. It was actually a moment of humiliation for a doctor to become a security guard. But I believe that life takes its course,” she says.
 
 But things began to change for Selvi when she won the   from the  . She approached a minister and had requested for a job in the government hospital along with her transwoman friend. After much persuasion, Selvi got to meet the dean of the hospital. 
 “Nobody wanted to appoint me and they gave me all kinds of excuses. But I was badly in need of a government job. Thanks to a recommendation letter from the ministry, I was appointed as a physiotherapist at the VIP ward. I only had theoretical knowledge and didn’t know what was to be done. But I did well with the help of doctors. For over a month, they didn’t want me to tell anyone that I am a transwoman. But when slowly people started to find out, things became bad again. While some of them are happy and proud of what you do, a few others feel disgusted by your sight,” says an upset Selvi. 
 Selvi has been associated with the hospital for three years, and she earns around `10,000 rupees a month. She is still not a permanent employee and has to deal with varied ‘politics’ at every stage. She says, “I am a social person, I believe in God and want to serve people. Somehow, a lot of my colleagues cannot accept it. Our struggles are real and different from what normal people face.”As for parental support, Selvi says, “My parents never understood the changes happening in me. I remember my mother visiting me once and went back crying. I took life as a challenge. I wanted to prove it to everyone that I can be successful both professionally and personally. Today, I am doing what I like the most — serving people. I’m also content that I have family that I can fall back on,” she says with a smile. But not everyone is as lucky as Selvi. She says, “There needs to be a lot of awareness among our people. Not all transwoman are prostitutes and they should also be given a chance to get a job. Why is it that we need to struggle at every stage? We have to use separate bathrooms, can’t get a house on rent or find genuine friends? I wish people open up and help us live a better life,” she signs off.
 
