ALAPPUZHA: The SFI workers vandalized Sri Vellappally Natesan College of Engineering, Kattachira near Mavelikkara when their protest march turned violent on Monday. Hundreds of SFI workers led by state general secretary M Vijil and state president Jaik C Thomas took out the march that began around 11.45 am on Monday following an engineering student tried to commit suicide by hanging at Kattachira near here on Sunday morning.

 Though over 100 police men led by Chengannur DySP blocked the march in front of the college using barricades, they have forcefully removed the barricades and barged into the college campus. They broke glasses of the windows and doors of the college. They also damaged the equipment of the college.
 
 However, the district secretary of SFI James Samuel said there were around 400 agitators and they entered the college remises after the goons of the college pelted stones at us. ``So we have entered the college premises. Four SFI workers including state general secretary M Vijil and state committee member and university union chairperson S Ashitha and two other area committee members were injured in the attack of police and goons of the college. We will intensify our agitation if the principal and hostel warden of the college are not sacked from their posts and the college is not ready to end their goonda activities inside the college against students,’’ he said. However, the district police chief suspended Vallikunnam station ASI Satheeshkumar and transferred another civil police officer Ratheesh to AR camp in the failure in the investigation of the case. These police men went to   for recording statement of the student in the car owned by college trust general secretary Subhash Vasu.
  
  The Chengannur DySP Sivasuthan Pillai said five police officers including the sub inspectors of Vallikunnam and Mannar were injured during the attack of SFI. ``There were no stone pelting from inside the college when the SFI march reached in front of the college. The SFI men entered the college during their protest forcefully, ‘’ said the DySP.
 
  On Sunday, the SFI and   workers took out the march and attacked the college after Arsh Raj (20), second year B Tech mechanical engineering student of Sri Vellappally Natesan College of Engineering, Kattachira nearMavelikkara tried to commit suicide after allegedly scolded by the principal of the college. On Sunday too, they have broken the glass doors and windows of the college. The SFI is observing education strike in   on Monday. The Mavelikkara cirlce inspector P Sreekumar said they have registered case against   leader and Sree Gurudeva Charitable and Educational Trust general secretary Subash Vasu and college principal H Ganesan on the complaint of Arsh. The college is owned by the trust'' he said.
  
 ''The student, a native of  , complained to the principal that the food served in the hostel canteen was in low quality and his weight has come down from 70 kg to 60 kg because of the food. He also said he felt the food served in the canteen not healthy. Following this, the principal has demanded him to bring food from his home or vacate the hostel. These were the reasons that forced him to take the extreme step. He was admitted to the Kayamkulam Taluk Hospital and later he was discharged,'' said the circle inspector.
 
