NEW DELHI: The Centre is considering getting states on board for removing restrictions on felling,   and sale of trees grown on private land to encourage agro-forestry. It has also decided to help states with dedicated electronic platforms where trees on non-forest land can be verified through geo-tagging. 

 The move will not only help farmers in earning additional income from farm land but also reduce the country's dependence on import of wood. Taking note of the agriculture ministry's proposal, the environment ministry has written to states asking them to come out with their suggestions so that farmers can be backed for agro-forestry. It requested states to bring rules for liberalising felling and transit regime for tree species grown on non-forest\private land.
 
 The issue was also discussed with representatives of states in a national consultation held last month. Though some states, including  , expressed reservations citing lesser area in states under forest cover, majority of states agreed to such changes in existing rules.
 
 "Presently, many states have rules restricting cutting of trees grown on their farm land. It also prohibits them from taking it from one place to other for selling purposes. These regulations and restrictions should be removed from private land," said  , member of  , who chaired the national consultation. 
 
 He told TOI that registration and geo-tagging can be an answer to find out whether the trees were grown on forest land or private land. "If states relax the felling and transit rules for trees being grown by farmers on their own land, it will encourage agro-forestry which has a huge potential for supplementing their income from agriculture," said Chand.
 
 The environment ministry's guidelines to states are aimed at bringing clarity and long-term certainty so that private land owners, farmers, industries and others who control and own non-forest land can be encouraged to invest in tree plantation. 
 
 It also enlisted the species which can be preferred for agro-forestry. 
 
 Even the NITI Aayog in its three-year action agenda, released recently, has pitched for it. It said, "It is essential and urgent that we liberalise our laws so that wood may be harvested from trees grown on private lands and transported to locations where it can be used more productively." 
 
 
