SURAT: While a common man faces prison term of up to life imprisonment if convicted for abetting accused involved in manufacture of spurious liquor that caused death of any person, a police officer or government officer convicted for the same offence could get maximum punishment of seven years, as per the latest amendments in  . 

 Similarly, a common man faces maximum   and Rs 5 lakh fine if convicted in abetting an accused in prohibition case for possession, transport, selling or buying of any intoxicant. However, for a police officer convicted for the same offence the maximum punishment is just three years and Rs 50,000 fine.
 
 At a time when the state government has tightened prohibition law, the difference in punishment for law enforcers and common citizen may not aid the government’s efforts, feel experts in law. They suggest that the law enforcement officer should get stricter punishment for abetting bootlegging.
 
 As per  , “Whoever attempts to commit or abets the commission of an offence under this Act shall, on conviction, be punished for such attempt or abetment with the same punishment as is provided for the principal offence.” However, there is a separate section 97 for ‘Any officer or person exercising power under this Act and any other officer’ who ‘abets the commission of any offence against this Act.’
 
 It should be noted that section 97 was in the Act before the amendment and the punishment was up to one year of imprisonment and Rs 1,000 fine.
 
 “There is already provision for abetting the crime under section 81, which has stricter punishment. A government or police officer would argue to book him under section 97 since there is a separate section available. If it was required to make separate sections for government officers and law enforces government should have had stricter punishment unlike the current provisions,” said  , a senior criminal lawyer.
 
 On being questioned about the separate sections,  , minister of state for home, said, “Since I am travelling out of state I am not able to check it and provide details. The exact details will be made available once I get it examined by my office.”
 
