NAGPUR: In some good news for the   from Vidarbha region, the Maharashtra   (MNLU) is planning to double its intake capacity from the   commencing next month.

 According to MNLU officials, the administration of premier institution, headed by vice chancellor Vijender Kumar, would be tabling the proposal during meeting of its Executive Council to be held on Tuesday evening on its premises in Civil Lines. The panel comprises senior judge at Bombay High Court justice Bhushan Gavai, justice (Retired) Ravindra Chavan, Patiala-based Rajiv Gandhi National University of Law (RGNUL) vice-chancellor Paramjit Jaswal, along with principal secretaries of state’s higher and technical education, law and judiciary, and finance departments.
 
 They added that only after getting green signal from the committee, the decision would be conveyed to the authority conducting Common Law Admission Test (CLAT) to include it in their database. This year, the MNLU Nagpur has been added in the list of national law universities which admit students through the CLAT, to be conducted by Patna-based Chanakya National Law University. Last year, due to delay, it couldn’t be added to the CLAT list, but was allowed to admit students who clear the entrance and it’s on 19th number currently. 
 
 The new institution still managed to attract over 600 applications for 60 BALLB (Honours) seats last year. It, however, failed to get response to its PG seats as only six were filled up. Interestingly, aspirants domiciled in Maharashtra get 25% concession, as they need to pay Rs1.85 lakh for a year, as compared to Rs2.15 lakh for those hailing from other states. 
 
 Officials said, the increase in seats came at right moment, as number of aspirants registering for the CLAT jumped over 50,000 this year, which is over 6% in comparison to last year when nearly 39,500 had applied. Of them, over 42,000 are for undergraduate programme. Interestingly, the CLAT numbers this year is highest ever in its history, ever since the exam was started in 2008.
 
 The premier institution, which is operating from its temporary campus at Judicial Officers Training Academy (JOTI), also plans to offer a special course in the judicial service to the students from third year. It would prepare them for the joining judicial services. The objective is to train them for the role of judges and other judicial officers. Usually, MNLU passouts opt for corporate sector jobs that grant hefty salaries and perks.
 
 MNLU’s main campus is coming up at 60 acres land at Waranga, near Mihan on Wardha Road. Both BALLB and LLM are fully residential courses and students need to stay in hostel of Pre-IAS Academy run by the state government at old Morris College, compulsorily, as per the officials.
 
