AURANGABAD: Leaders are gearing up to push the government to release   for road work in the city, but have questioned the utilisation of the Rs 24 crore released in 2015 for five   in the city. 

 After the   (AMC) received the funds, construction of the five roads began in October 2016 but the authorities are yet to complete the project. Since then, the civic body could complete two roads amid complaints of irregularities, while 20% work of two other roads is still pending. The work of the fifth road (MGM hospital to   crematorium) is yet to see light of the day. 
 
 While raising the issue on Saturday, BJP MLA   said the inefficiency on the part of the municipal authorities might affect the state government’s decision to release more funds. When the fund was available, the AMC should have built the roads within time. “It creates an awkward situation for MLAs and MLCs while demanding additional funds,” he said. 
 
 However, the municipal authorities attributed the delay to legal issues involved in the work. “We are already completed two roads and construction of two other roads would over by this month-end. And as far as the MGM hospital to Kailash Nagar crematorium road is concerned, we have now decided to complete the work on the land that does have any disputes, said municipal commissioner   Bakoria. 
 
 Bakoria added that they have to build a bridge on a patch, which is causing some delay. 
 
 After the AMC received special fund of Rs 24 crore for city roads in March 2015, the state government had specially directed the authorities to utilize it under the supervision of a three-member committee comprising divisional commissioner, municipal commissioner and district collector. 
 
 However, the municipal authorities allegedly set aside the committee and took most of the decisions on their own. This allegedly lead to a tussle between the AMC and the district administration. 
 
 Apart from this, suspecting the quality of the newly-built concrete roads, the municipal body has recently ordered an inspection by an independent agency.
 
