NAGPUR:   Memorial Hospital, the state government’s only maternity hospital in city, is facing a severe crunch of diagnostic equipment and staff. The reply to a   query by activist Abhay Kolarkar says around 15,000 deliveries take place at the hospital every year, but there is only one neonatal ventilator. The hospital also does not have a senior gynaecologist, even though it gets about 2 lakh Out Patient Department (OPD) patients and 36,000 IPD patients annually.

 On June 9, 2014, a proposal had been sent by the hospital to upgrade it from 300 bed to 500, which was approved on November 27, 2014. The hospital also sent a detailed project report (DPR). Hospital medical superintendent Dr Seema Parvekar told TOI, “Recently, the occupancy of the hospital has been increased to 500, but the government has still not provided us the manpower needed for it.”
 
 The RTI data shows the hospital has only one neonatal ventilator for its 42-bed Sick New Born Child-Birth Unit (CNBCU). As far as diagnostic equipment is concerned, the entire hospital has one X-ray machine (300 mA), which is currently not operational, one laparoscope and five sonography machines.
 
 The hospital has seven sanctioned posts of Class-1 employees, of which three posts are lying vacant. The hospital still lacks a senior gynaecologist, a senior radiologist and a chief administrative officer.
 
 Disputing the official RTI data, Dr Parvekar said, “Currently, we have two X-ray machines. One is a mobile X-ray machine which is quite advanced, and the other one is outdated, which breaks down often. It may not be functional right now.”
 
 Dr Parvekar added, “Apart from the single ventilator, we have recently received a computerized ventilator, which can cater to five patients at a time, it is called as Expiratory Positive Airway Pressure (EPAP).”
 
 The data for the last 6 years shows there is no significant rise or fall in death rate at the hospital. However, it won’t be wrong to say that the hospital is not equipped to tackle serious cases and, hence, whenever there are some complications during or post-delivery, the hospital immediately refers the cases to   (GMCH), said sources at GMCH.
 
 Central Nagpur MLA Vikas Kumbhare, under whose constituency the hospital is located, accepted that the hospital has been referring many severe cases to GMCH as it lacks expert staff. Kumbhare said, “The proposal has been given to the government to increase manpower. We are taking efforts to get over the current staff crunch.”
 
 He added, “The hospital has a lot of problems, but it has improved to a great extent in the last 10-15 years. The hospital has one of the largest rates of normal delivery. Earlier, a number of beds used to stay vacant, but if you see now, there is hardly any vacant bed.” 
 
