NAGPUR: The stalemate between resident doctors and the state government continued on Thursday even as the strike entered its fourth day.

 The high court, meanwhile, struck a calmer tone by directing the government to provide security to resident doctors, and asking residents to give the state some time to provide security.
 
 With the order being uploaded on the court website late on Thursday evening, officials of the   have asked its members to join duty at the earliest. There is every likelihood that the strike/mass casual leave may be called of on Friday.
 
 All efforts to convince the residents on mass leave by CM Devendra Fadnavis and medical education minister Girish Mahajan too failed, with the residents insisting they will continue on leave till they get court orders in their hand.
 
 Fadnavis had called a meeting with the residents and Mahajan, public health minister Deepak Sawant and Maharashtra DGP Satish Mathur at around 1.30pm.
 
 The CM directed the authorities to provide enough security to sensitive hospitals with armed policemen, and start work on a long term plan to install CCTV cameras.
 
 “If doctors are attacked on duty, they will be treated as government servants, and all expenses on their medical treatment and legal aid will be borne by the government,” said Fadnavis.
 
 The CM also proposed to set up an apex council with government representatives and doctors for interaction every three months to address the issue from time to time.
 
 Mahajan told TOI it was sad that despite all assurances from court and the CM the residents were not ready to budge. “What more can we do? We are given in writing that all their demands will be met, but they didn’t call off the strike,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, as   (IMA) joined the strike, private practitioners too struck work but attended to emergency cases.
 
 The resident doctors also got support from all corners of the country as well as all medical colleges in the state. Chandrapur and Gondia medical colleges, which don’t have resident doctors as they do not have post graduate courses , too sent support letters.
 
 The   and many such forums too joined the strike.
 
 Nagpur IMA team met district resident collector KNK Rao and submitted over IMA’s demands. Later, the IMA held a meeting in its auditorium. Dr Avinash Wase, president IMA, briefed members about the demands. He said that “we are deeply pained by the recent spate of events of unabated violence against doctors”.
 
 “Working in an atmosphere free from any coercion is the fundamental right of an individual as enshrined in the Constitution. The agitation will continue till next announcement from Maharashtra IMA,” he said.
 
 Dr Prakash Deo appreciated the role of media in putting forth the plight of residents. Dr SC Karandikar, senior ophthalmologist, said, “By suspending the services of resident doctors, government is not penalizing the resident doctors but poor patients, who cannot afford to go to private hospitals.”
 
 Dr Ashutosh Apte said, “They are fighting for the basic fundamental right of safety at working place.”
 
 Dr KS Rajan, orthopaedic surgeon, extended Rotary’s support through district governor Mahesh Mokalkar’s letter. Cardiologist Dr Uday Mahorkar suggested that life threatening emergencies should be taken up as per the discretion of doctors.
 
 Surgeon Dr YS Deshpande, who is president elect of  , appealed to remain united in this hour of crisis. He said residents were not responsible for deficiencies in government hospitals. “Assault on doctors is due to failure of dean, DMER, health minister and chief minister.”
 
 Dr Milind Naik, Dr Ashok Adhao, Dr Anil Laddhad and representatives of various professional organizations also spoke at the meeting.
 
 
