PUDUCHERRY: Two women reportedly died of dengue in the Union territory of   in the last one week, while dozens, including the two sons G Theva Neethi Dhas, secretary of the lt governor, are undergoing treatment at government and private hospitals.

 The directorate of health and family welfare services, however, maintained that only one woman died of dengue.The other, who was suffering from dengue, died of “cerebovascular accident“ (CVA), it said, claiming that it had taken all precautionary measures to prevent dengue outbreak and to keep the situation “well under control“.
 
 R Vijayalakshmi, 50, of TV Nagar, who was admitted to a private medical college hospital on September 23, was diagnosed with dengue. She was discharged on September 27 after treatment. A day later she developed complications and was rushed to   government hospital and postgraduate institute where she died.
 
 The postmortem report mentioned the cause of death as cerebrovascular accident.“The woman was diagnosed with dengue. She underwent treatment at a private hospital. She was discharged. She was admitted to government hospital following some other complication on September 28. She died the same day . The cause of death was cerebovascular accident,“ claimed a directorate of health and family welfare services official.
 
 Indumathi, 24, an anaesthesia technician in a private medical college and hospital, died of dengue on September 21. Health officials said the resident of   fainted while on duty at the hospital on September 18. She was admitted to the same hospital where she died despite treatment for four days.
 
 Health officials have launched efforts to control dengue outbreak in regions where the prevalence was reported. The directorate procured a vehicle-mounted fogging machine which began operations in affected areas.Puducherry and Olugaret municipalities have five vehicle-mounted fogging machines.
 
 “A pest control team has begun visiting the affected localities and started dropping insect-growth regulator tablets on waterbodies that cannot be cleared. Additionally, six doctors who underwent training in Bengaluru will in turn train doctors in government and private hospitals on treating dengue patients,“ said the official.
 
 The directorate will launch a propaganda van to inform the public on the dos and don'ts of controlling the spread of the disease. It has proposed to hold street plays and erect banners and posters to create awareness among the people.
 
