NAGPUR: Even as dwindling number of sparrows has raised an alarm, citizens have been appealed to be a part of the three-day nationwide house   beginning Saturday. The theme for this year is ‘I love sparrows’.

 As part of the World Sparrow Day celebrations on March 20, Nature   (NFS) specially appealed people to monitor   by participating in the ‘Great Sparrow Count’. The count is a global initiative aimed at counting sparrows across the world.
 
 “Our aim is to document population and distribution of 24 different species of sparrows found across the world. While everyone has heard about house sparrows, few know that there are five different species of sparrows in India.
 
 “The idea is to generate information useful for conservation of sparrows, including data on distribution as well as year-to-year changes,” said Mohammed Dilawar, an NFS member and a crusader for almost ignored common sparrow.
 
 Buoyed by the appeal, many bird watchers in the city plan to install and distribute artificial nests for sparrows in   area. “There are less sparrows in Civil Lines which mostly has government offices. Our group will identify the spots to install nests where we find maximum sparrows. We also plan to place them in gardens and balconies,” said Venkatesh Mudaliar and Parag Pawar, both avid bird watchers.
 
 In Amravati, Honorary wildlife warden Jayant Wadatkar said, “Bird watchers will count sparrows in entire district. We will set up a stall at Gadge Nagar on March 20 for sale and distribution of nests. People can contribute by way of adopting a nest box and pledge to feed sparrows.”
 
 Dilawar says even common man can join people by counting sparrows and celebrating them by organizing local events. The basic activity of the great count is to list not just sparrows, but also all other bird species seen at a particular location over a period of 15 minutes or more, and upload the list to the bird recording platform www.ebird.org. This can be repeated as often as is possible at any time during the three days of the count.
 
 “The sparrow population in many countries around the world is declining. The day is your chance to rise to the challenge of saving them. The humble house sparrow is one of the world’s most common and widespread species. Apart from the house sparrow there are twenty-six distinct species of sparrow. It is an effort to create awareness about all these species which are spread across the three continents of Asia, Africa and Europe,” says Dilawar.
 
 World Sparrow Day is a celebration of our 10,000-year-old association with sparrows! “Counting sparrows raises important questions, including its distribution, how they are affected by changes in habitat and weather,” says bird watcher Gaurav Kadu.
 
 Dr Kartik Chaturvedi, another nature lover, says, “This will be a great initiative to understand the present-day distribution and population status of one of the most common birds in India.” 
 
 and will also help gather information on other birds that co-inhabit its habitat."
 
 Want to contribute? 
 
 Install nest, give a home
 
 Install a bird bath, chance to quench
 
 Use a cloth bag, reduce plastic use
 
 Install bird feeder, give strength
 
 Plant native tree, give forest
 
