KOTTAYAM: Students of   (JNV), Kottayam, have achieved what many can only dream of. All the 99 students being coached at the school for IIT have qualified the JEE (Main) this year, ensuring admission in the   (NITs).

 This is the first time that a school has seen 100% result in JEE (Main). But the students are not resting on their laurels and aiming to score high in JEE (Advanced), so that they get into the top IITs in trades of their choice.
 
 “Students sacrifice two years of their life by living far away from their families and focusing on JEE alone. They study with a goal and that's the reason for their success,“ said school principal G Beena.
 
 The students are selected for a scholarship after Class 10 by the   which focuses on providing world-class educational opportunities to economically and socially disadvantaged gifted students in rural India. The foundation has partnered with the JNV schools set up by the Union government for rural India and the students undergo intensive training 24X7 for two years without any breaks.
 
 They were selected through a test called the Grand Dakshana Selection Test (GDST), where there knowledge in mathematics, logical reasoning, physics and chemistry are tested. The selected students are placed in one of the seven JNV schools and given world-class quality preparation for the JEE. The only such centre in   is at JNV, Kottayam and the coaching partner here is TIME institute.
 
 The only contact they have with their family is once a week or sometimes in a fortnight. All the 99 students are from other states, a majority of them hail from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Orissa. If parents do come down to meet them, which is very rare, as majority don't have resources to travel, they are allowed to meet their wards only for a day.
 
 “The students are very focussed and committed. They arrived at the centre before June, 2015, and will only be going home after two years once they appear for JEE (Advanced). Most of them study with the sole aim of getting into IITs to change the destiny of their family and village,“ said Venugopal N, Dakshana coordinator at JNV, Kottayam.
 
 Dakshana have since 2007 inducted around 1,700 students as part of the program. Over 600 of these scholars have cracked the JEE to secure admissions into IITs while the others have cleared the AIEEE or JEE Mains to pursue education in NITs or other premier institutes.
 
