DARJEELING: Violence continued in the Hills on Saturday with   setting ablaze a panchayat office in Singritam in the Rangli Rangliot block and attacking a police convoy of three vehicles in Mirik's Gayabari. The police convoy was on its way from Mirik to Siliguri with reinforcements when suspected   (GJM) supporters, armed with khukris, attacked it. While two vehicles were damaged extensively and the miscreants doused one with petrol, they didn't succeed in setting it ablaze. The incident occurred around 5.30 pm.

 “Gaurav Lal, DCP (Zone-I),  , was leading a team of specially trained armed company ( ) personnel towards Siliguri when the convoy was attacked. Mobiles were snatched and security personnel were threatened. But the convoy succeeded in returning to Siliguri,“ an officer said.
 
 Meanwhile, some confusion was witnessed within the GJM's ranks during the day with party spokesperson Bini ta Roka reiterating the party's demand for withdrawal of central forces and its youth wing welcoming the Calcutta high court's decision to send in four more companies to the Hills.
 
 On Saturday , Prakash Gurung, president, Gorkha Janmukti Youth Morcha (GJYM), said his outfit respected the orders of the high court and has no issues about deployment of more central forces. “Our fight is not against the central forces but the West Bengal government on the issue of Gorkhaland. This is a political issue. Let the central forces come. We have no problems,“ he said.
 
 Eleven companies of central paramilitary forces are now deployed in Darjeeling and Kalimpong in addition to three columns of the Army .The state is keen for deployment of more forces in the Hills for two reasons. For one, demonstrators don't seem too inclined to take on the CRPF personnel and secondly , maintaining large numbers of state police personnel in the troubletorn Hills is turning into a logistics nightmare. After the Ju ly 8 incident, in which a   (GNLF) supporter was killed in Sonada, the state has desisted from deploying police or central forces personnel on the streets. Only the Army has been carrying out route marches but with so much area to be covered, several pockets are remaining unmanned. Even on Saturday , Gorkhaland supporters marched down the streets carrying national flags and demanding the withdrawal of forces. A section of central GJM leadership feels that deployment of CRPF in the Hills amounts to treating the movement as secessionist and anti-national.
 
 When this was pointed out to Gurung, he said: “We can always make such demands. It must be remembered that seven people have been killed so far. We also know that it was the police who killed our supporters but passed the blame on the central forces.“ During the day , he also told a TV channel that the youth wing of the GJM would launch a fast-untodeath agitation from July 21 unless the Centre intervenes by then.
 
