Samhita, the language, literature and cultural society of Hindu College, recently organized its annual conclave, 'Alfaaz'. Among the speakers that the students invited were UPSC 2014 topper   and BJP’s national spokesperson  . The conclave also saw a power-packed performance by folk singer  . But the highlight of the event was a session by actor and MP  . He was welcomed to a big round of applause and loud cheers that said ‘Khamosh’.

 Interestingly, the actor also began his session with a “Khamosh”. "I am fortunate to be here today. Yeh mere ghar ke bachche hain, Hindu college ke. Yeh ek jawan 118 years ka college hai, aur yeh mera saubhagya hai ki main itne short notice pe bhi yahan aa paya," said Sinha, while addressing the crowd.
 
 
 
 While he addressed the students during his session, Sinha referred to Hindu College as his own college. "Everyone thought that I might not come, but this is our Hindu College. The students were expected to pick me up but they were caught up here so they couldn’t come. Par main bhi ghoom ghoom ke DU pahunch hi gaya aur woh bhi sahi venue pe. Inki bhi koi majboori rahi hogi, nahi toh koi aise hi bewafa nahi hota," he said, making the crowd go, ‘Waah, waah’.
 
 
 
  
  Sachin Yadav, a first-year Sanskrit (Hons) student from the college, presented a sketch to Sinha (BCCL)
 
 
 
 
 Sinha, while giving his gyaan to the students, also said that it is important to take up a field depending on your interest and aptitude. No student should be forced to take up any subject that he/she is not interested in. "Mera hi example lelo, main Patna Science College mein tha, aur main class se zyada notice board ke paas ya canteen mein milta tha. I still remember the notices that were put only for me." He added, "I never had the aptitude of a Science student. Main khoon nahi dekh pata tha, toh meri ek teacher ne kaha ki tum niklo yahan se. FTII mein tab ek naya course nikla tha acting ka, maine wahan apply kiya aur mera selection ho gaya. Main compounder banne ke layak nahi tha, aur mere pitaji mujhe doctor bana rahe thay. I am telling you this because I want you to be focused in whatever you do. Main mann ki baat nahi karta hoon, woh koi aur karte hain, main bas dil ki baat karta hoon."
 
 
 
  
  Folk singer Malini Awasthi (BCCL)
 
 
 
 
 While he was asking students to never give up on their real identity, he said, "A lot of people follow me." When someone from the audience said, "Yes, Kapil Sharma," Sinha replied, "Haan, woh kuch zyada karta hai, utna toh main hath chalata bhi nahi hoon. Par agar mujhe follow karke kisi ki roti chalti hai toh kya galat hai."
 
 
 
  
  Sambit Patra (L) and Ira Singhal (BCCL)
 
 
 
 
 Sinha told the students that they are four brothers, Ram, Lakshman, Bharat and Shatrughan. And the bungalow he lives in in Mumbai is called Ramayan. One of the students then asked him, "Your sons are Luv-Kush, your brothers are Ram, Lakshman and Bharat. So how come you did not follow the same trend for Sonakshi Sinha?” Sinha laughed and replied, “We tried a lot. Par kuch mila hi nahi. Luv-Kush twins thay toh Manoj Kumar aur Hema Malini ne kaha Luv-Kush naam rakh do. But isse pehle hum kuch rakhte, media ne newspapers mein print kar diya. Par Sonakshi ke liye kuch nahi mila. My wife wanted her name to be after my name, so Sonakshi rakh diya. Aap logon ko abhi bhi koi naam milein toh bata dena, main soch lunga."
 
 
 
