BATHINDA: The   (Kadian) has asked the Punjab government to either provide financial compensation or machinery to the farmers as per directions of the   (NGT) to mix crop residue in soil or they would continue with stubble burning.

 The farm organisation on Monday accused the state government of interpreting parts of   as per its convenience. "The state government is paying heed to the directions of the NGT about levying fines on farmers who burn residue in fields but it is not doing anything on the other portion of the order wherein the tribunal has asked the state governments to provide equipment like happy seeders free of cost to marginal farmers having land up to 2 acres and provide cost of using such machines to farmers having land beyond 2 acres," the organisation claims, demanding that either the farmers are given Rs 6,000 per acre compensation to make arrangements for residue or a bonus of Rs 200 per quintal on paddy.
 
 Meanwhile, combine owners have declined to attach   (SMS) on combine harvesters at the cost of Rs 1 lakh per machine despite the fact that the state government has announced 50% subsidy on attaching SMS to combines.
 
 Harmeet Singh Kadian, BKU Kadian state president, said the NGT in its order on December 10, 2015, on a petition of   had directed the governments of Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh that every state would provide machines, mechanism and equipment or its cost to the farmers to ensure that agricultural residue in the field in these states was removed, collected and stored at identified sites in each district. Such equipment like happy seeders would be provided to small farmers having land area less than 2 acres free of cost. For the farmers possessing an area of more than two acres but less than 5, such machines are to cost Rs 5,000 and for land owners having land area more than 5 acres would get these machines for Rs 15,000.
 
 He said the state government was not even looking at this part of the NGT order but was concentrating on the part where the tribunal had asked the state to levy fines for stubble burning. Small land holders having an area less than 2 acres would have to pay environmental compensation of Rs 2,500 per incidence while those with area more than 2 acres but less than 5 acres shall pay environmental compensation of Rs 5,000 per incidence. Farmers with an area more than 5 acres will have to pay Rs 15,000 per incidence as compensation.
 
 Kadian said several memorandums had been given to the CM through deputy commissioners across the state on Monday seeking Rs 6,000 per acre as compensation for making arrangements for residue or give us Rs 200 per quintal bonus on paddy as farmers were not in a position to bear the extra cost.
 
