AHMEDABAD: After Prime Minister   used his ‘chai pe charcha’ programme to reach out to the masses ahead of the 2014 general election, city police have have also brought out the ‘cutting chai’ as a public relations tool this winter, to break the ice with minorities and dalits and build bridges that were largely burned after the 2002 riots.

 ‘Paidal Charcha’, the city police initiative that is informally known as ‘chai pe charcha’, was rolled out last week. Police personnel went out to make contact with minorities, dalits and people in OBC dominated areas on foot, and discussed local issues while sipping hot tea along with them.
 
  Senior police officials said the initiative will make cops connect with locals, earn their trust, and get tip-offs on illegal activities in a particular area.
 
 Joint commissioner of police, sector 1, Piyush Patel, said the aim of ‘chai pe charcha’ is to build bridges between various communities and castes and instil a sense of trust and confidence in the police department.
 
 “The initiative, taken up with the help of an NGO, will be a monthly affair now. The cops, led by the police inspector of the area, will reach out to locals, especially women, to understand their issues, domestic troubles and grievances against cops,” added Patel.
 
 Most recently, the cops held such meetings with residents of Gomtipur, Shahpur, Karanj and   areas of the city.
 
 Social worker Nilofer Mansuri of Jamalpur, who also remains present with the cops during these meetings, said they are focusing on women’s issues, like their domestic problems and eve teasing. “We are also addressing livelihood issues. This initiative has generated so much confidence in the women that they are coming forward to complain about the nuisances in their areas,” added Mansuri.
 
 “On Sunday night, police inspector of Gaekwad Haveli police station   and his team came to our area. There were about 35 women, who are involved in rolling chapattis, who spoke of the difficulties they face in earning their living. Rathwa assured them that he would connect them with the self help group (SHG) run by railways, to help them get regular business as vendors,” Mansuri said.
 
 Police ‘raths’ to register complaints at doorstep
 
 Ahmedabad: The city police force has acquired four ‘grievance reddressal buses’ which will take police to people’s doorsteps, to register complaints.
 
 These mobile units are equipped with computers, LEDs, CCTV cameras and are aimed to limiting the stress people face in going to police stations to register complaints. 
 
  Instead, when they face a problem now, a citizen just has to send a message on a WhatsApp number, to connect with the cops. The mobile unit will directly reach them and file their complaint.
 
 “The police team operating the bus will also be connected to various police helpline numbers. This initiative is has been taken up to make filing a complaint with police simpler and stress free,” said a senior police official.
 
