MUMBAI: Good enough to challenge for a first   crown in five years but not quite 'there at the moment' to battle it out with the likes of European heavyweights   and Barcelona - that's   legend  ' candid assessment of  's men.

 After a mixed first season under the charismatic Portuguese that saw the Red Devils miss out on a top four Premier League finish but still qualify for the Uefa Champions League by virture of winning the Europa League, the pieces do seem to be steadily coming together at Old Trafford. And while Giggs points to the last two English champions as evidence of the Premier League's unpredictability, he believes this season's race to the title could well end up being a Manchester derby.
 
 "Before the season I thought it was between Man United and Manchester City because of the recruitment. It's also a second season for (City manager) (Pep) Guardiola and Mourinho," Giggs told reporters here on Friday. "They have the best squads. City have very very good attacking players, probably the best in the league, but United's squad I think is the best.
 
 "They've got the best squad to help them in the league, in Europe and to handle injuries and suspensions. I could be wrong. The last two years, Leicester won it, then Chelsea came from nowhere to win it, so it's a difficult league to predict, but I think City and United have the best teams."
 
 It's a different story in Europe though with Mourinho himself placing United in 'the second level' despite the three-time Champions League winners marking their return to the continent's elite club competition after a one-season gap with a 3-0 win over Basel midweek. "I think what he meant is, you see Real Madrid and Barcelona. Barcelona have Messi, Pique, Suarez, Iniesta, Real Madrid have Modric Bale Ronaldo Benzema, Ramos - all established world class players," Giggs explained. "With United, because of the turnover of managers and the different players that have come in, it takes a little bit of time. What world class player do United have? David de Gea definitely, who else after that? Potentially (Paul) Pogba, potentially Lukaku. They have a lot of very good players like Mata, Matic, Mkhitaryan but actually world class players, probably only De Gea. United can get there but are probably not there at the moment."
 
 Giggs wasn't just a fan favourite as a dazzling first-team regular from 1991 to 2014 - a spell that yielded a staggering 34 trophies, including 13 Premier League trophies and two Champions League crowns - the Welshman was also a popular choice to succeed the sacked Louis van Gaal on the bench last season only to lose out to Mourinho.
 
 "They went for someone who is proven, someone who, yeah, comes with a bit of baggage also because he doesn't last very long, he's very outspoken, but ultimately he's someone who gets the job done more often than not.
 
 "Yeah, I wanted the job. I felt I was ready but I also understand them going with Mourinho," said Giggs, who is in India to lead the Krystal Mumbai Warriors in the second season of Premier Futsal.
 
 So is the 43-year-old open to returning to his beloved club in the future, possibly as Mourinho's successor? "No, I don't think so, but who knows. 
 
 "There are a lot of things that are up in the air at the moment. Does (Mourinho) stay three, four, five, six years which he's not done before. Is he successful? What stage are the club in when he leaves? So all these things will determine who the next appointment is."
 
