HYDERABAD: There's a theory that fast bowlers make the most impact in T20 cricket, but a closer study has proved that it's the spinners who make a telling contribution in the shortest format.   held this opinion when asked why the   indulged in a bidding war for Afghanistan's leg-break bowler  .

 The Sunrisers' mentor can't be faulted based on what transpired in the first two games of their   X campaign. Word spread quickly that Rashid's googly is hard to pick and it didn't take long for him to make an impact.
 
 In fact, just his fourth delivery on his IPL debut in the tournament opener derailed the Royal Challengers Bangalore's chase, as he cleaned up a dangerous looking Mandeep Singh. If that was the last powerplay over he bowled in SRH's 35-run win, skipper   went to him in the fourth over with Jason Roy on the charge for Gujarat Lions on Sunday. The result was equally good for Rashid (319) and fashioned the Sunrisers' nine-wicket win. Brendon McCullum was the first to succumb, failing to spot a wrong 'un, Aaron Finch fronted up to a googly and skipper Suresh Raina was deceived by a leg break, all three met with the same fate: trapped in front. Eleven of his 24 deliveries were dot balls.
 
 That was just what his Afghanistan and Sunrisers' teammate Mohammad Nabi had foretold after their first match. "Rashid is a brilliant bowler. He was playing his first match and was a little nervous. But he bowled very well on a batting track. Insha Allah he'll only get better with more matches under his belt."
 
 The 18-year-old, who was signed up by SRH for Rs 4 crore, has seven brothers and four sisters, and has enthused everyone in the team with his fearless brand of cricket. "We didn't have Mustafizur and for us he's a big loss, but we found someone like Rashid Khan. Rashid is a superstar in the making and I hope he can continue this way for us in the rest of the tournament," gushed Warner.
 
 It will be interesting to see how the Sunrisers tweak the combination when Mustafizur is available, but Rashid has done enough to a merit a place in the side.
 
 
