COIMBATORE: A city-based consumer activist has issued a legal notice against the state government announcing a special   only to rice ration cardholders. 

 He has petitioned against the government's discrimination in determining the eligibility criteria for the hamper, pointing out that there are several "rich" people with rice ration cards and many "poor" people with sugar ration cards.
 
 Activist with  ,   has filed a petition against the state government's practice of giving Pongal hampers only to rice card holders, police card holders and   staying in camps. "The government states that this would allow the poor to celebrate Pongal with joy, but unfortunately a section of Tamils have been discriminated against," he said. Only rice card holders are considered for such government welfare schemes like 20kg free rice, fan, grinder and mixies, he added.
 
 The activist said there are many poor people like small tea shop owners, sweet stall owners who preferred a sugar card for whatever reason. "It is hard to accept the logic of denying free gifts to sugar card holders," he said. The special Pongal gift hamper contains one kg of raw rice, sugar, cashew nuts, raisin, cardamom and two feet long sugar cane each. 
 
 Originally, at the time of issue and renewal, the public were given the option of either a rice card or sugar card. Anyone could apply for a ration card. There is no eligibility criteria. Once they choose the type of card, the public cannot change it, said the activist.
 
 The activist in his petition stated that out of the 2.05 crore ration cards in Tamil Nadu, 1.74 crore are rice cards. Police cards account for 69,000. There only are 11 lakh sugar card holders. "When the government is prepared to provide free gifts to nearly 1.90 crore card holders, denying the same to 11 lakh sugar card holders alone in Tamil Nadu without any basis is discriminatory, arbitrary and unreasonable. Even the consideration given to Sri Lankan refugees is not given to sugar card holders of Tamil Nadu," he said. 
 
 The activist plans to move the high court if the government fails to respond in this matter.
 
 
