SALURU/VIZIANAGARAM: The death toll in the Maoist   on   reached eight with the authorities recovering the body of   (OSAP)   from the spot on Thursday morning. 

 In all, 15 personnel, all of them drivers, were proceeding for training to Angul district police training college from Koraput in a minivan when the blast occurred between 5 pm and 5.30 pm at Mungurubhumi area, 3 km away from the AP border in Vizianagaram district, on Wednesday evening.
 
 By Wednesday evening, seven bodies were recovered and five of the injured admitted to a hospital in Vizag. The deceased were identified as Havaldar major Somnath, Ganesh Prasad Saha, Arun Kumar Nayak, Pradeep Kumar Rout, Hare Krishna Prusti, Sanjay Kumar Dash and Suvarna Kumar Raj. On Thursday, the authorities recovered the body of Majhi. 
 
 Among those injured, Lipu Kumar Nath’s condition is said to be critical as he received serious injuries on the chest and spine. The remaining four — Pradeep Kumar Mallik, Radhasyam Das, Swetha Kumar Das and Pramod Biswal — undergoing treatment for multiple fractures and injuries at the private Visakhapatnam hospital are said to be stable. 
 
 The Odisha police department gave full state honours to the martyrs at Koraput parade ground on Thursday in the presence of south western range DIG S Saini and other higher officials. 
 
 The Odisha police department has ordered a probe into the incident to be conducted by operations IG RP Koche and intelligence director Sunil Roy. The two met the injured and their relatives in Visakhapatnam on Thursday. The police investigation team would probe whether the department and the victims had followed the standard operation procedure (SOP) while transporting the cops, sources said.
 
 The Maoists blasted the vehicle despite presence of a BSF camp 2 km away from the site. Sources said Maoists had planned to target BSF vehicles but ended up killing the police drivers. 
 
 The officers are to submit a report after visiting the incident spot and completing the inquiry, a senior police officer of Koraput told TOI. 
 
 Meanwhile, anti-naxal forces from Koraput district of Odisha and Vizianagaram district of AP have started combing operations within 20 km of the incident spot, the sources said.
 
