MUMBAI: Rebel Congress leader Narayan Rane’s entry into the BJP may not be a smooth affair as chief minister   and some of his cabinet colleagues are not keen on inducting him.

 A faction in the Maharashtra BJP thinks that Rane’s penchant for strong-arm tactics may not find favour with the Sangh parivaar.
 
 Fadnavis has acquiesced following persuasion from the party’s top brass, but he is of the view that Rane should be given a Rajya Sabha seat so that he is removed from the state's political scenario. Fadnavis has conveyed the suggestion to BJP chief Amit Shah. Union minister Nitin Gadkari and Maharashtra BJP chief Raosaheb Danve are backing Rane’s entry into the BJP. The two think that Rane may help the BJP strike roots in Konkan, where he is said to have considerable clout. However, at least two senior BJP ministers—both Marathas (the community to which Rane belongs)—are not amenable to the idea, sources said on Friday.
 
 Rane’s visit to Ahmedabad on Wednesday night to hold discussions with Shah fuelled speculation in political circles that the former CM and his two sons could be on their way to the saffron party. Neelesh is a former MP, while Neetesh is Congress legislator. However, Rane has scotched all talk of his joining the BJP.
 
 Rane’s style of functioning and his political ambition have made him suspect in the eyes of several BJP ministers, said analysts. The political rehabilitation of his two sons in the BJP is a major glitch too.
 
 "Rane is given to using intemperate language while expressing his views on an issue. His choice of words is a tad too harsh. This will certainly not go down well with our party. Fadnavis, who can never be caught with his foot in the mouth, is worried that Rane could become a liability for him and the state government with his sensational statements," said a state BJP office bearer. “Rane's overarching ambition too could set him on a confrontation course with BJP leaders. If things don't go his way, Rane may start fretting and fuming, and put out statements against the party," he added. Fadnavis’s supporters think that the  , which has brokered peace with the BJP after Uddhav Thackeray attended Prime Minister Narendra Modi's dinner for NDA partners in Delhi last week, may be upset with Rane’s entry into the BJP. Rane belonged to the Sena before he joined the Congress in 2005.
 
 Rane left the Sena and joined the Congress in 2005 after strong differences with Matoshree. He suffered a jolt after son Neelesh lost the 2014 general election. Rane lost the state assembly election and also the subsequent Bandra assembly by-election. Since then he has been sulking in the state Congress despite being given a berth in the upper House.
 
