Trichy: Service providers around the world are striving hard to delight their customers and Trichy international airport is not wasting any time either. Trichy airport began its celebrations for ‘Smile Week’ at the new terminal building here on Thursday. As part of the celebrations, the airport authorities have organised various programmes and events at the airport which would culminate on September 25.

 With a focus on improving passenger service excellence, operational efficiency and to realise greater revenue growth, the Airport Authority of India (AAI) launched project Disha (Delivery-Improvement- Service-Hospitality at the airport). After launching the project at Chennai and Coimbatore airports, where the total passenger traffic is above 15 lakh, the project has been launched at 12 airports including Trichy. 
 
 District collector K Rajamani, inaugurated the programme and week-long events including distribution of chocolates to passengers, soft skill training for CISF personnel, health awareness programme to staff handling baggage and trolley, taxi drivers and talk by renowned personalities.
 
 “In the process of satisfying passengers, airport authorities at Trichy have started to focus on improving toilet facilities, terminal up-keeping, trolley services, check-in facilities, efficiency of security, immigration and customs and customer delight. These critical areas were identified under Disha would be constantly monitored,” said airport director K Gunasekaran.
 
 “Trichy airport has been able to achieve a customer satisfaction index score of 4.7 out of 5 in the last survey conducted between January and June 2017. Considering the persistent efforts of airport authorities in providing world-class infrastructure and services, it has taken various initiatives and to meet the changing customer needs in the competitive environment,” he said. 
 
 Customer delight at Trichy airport will be achieved through activities to improve the aesthetics of the terminal building, he added.
 
 
