BENGALURU: Of the about 4,000 hospitals across Karnataka, only 119 have National Accreditation Board for Hospitals and Healthcare Providers (NABH) recognition. Set up in 2006 to establish and operate accreditation programme for healthcare organizations,   is a constituent board of   and recognizes hospitals based on quality of healthcare and patient safety.

 Only 4 of the 119 NABH-recognized hospitals are government institutions.
 
 City doctors say it is high time the regulatory authorities make NABH recognition mandatory for all hospitals in the state, which at present is only voluntary. The government must ensure all public and private hospitals are NABH-recognized and put in place a process which improves patients’ safety, they felt.
 
 NABH recognition is awarded in two levels — accreditation given to super specialty hospitals with five star facilities and certification to institutions with basic and advanced levels of quality care.
 
 “Also, there is a need to create more awareness among patients about the importance of NABH accreditation so that they opt for hospitals with have the recognition. Treatment in a NABH-accredited hospital ensures quality care and patient safety,” says Dr H Sudarshan Ballal, chairman, Manipal Hospitals.
 
 Doctors also say that many private hospitals deliberately evade NABH recognition that involves investments as patients demand cheaper treatment.
 
 “Improving quality comes at a cost and sometimes it is compromised to cut costs,” says Dr Vishal Rao US, oncologist at HCG Cancer Hospital and member of the state’s high-powered committee on tobacco control.
 
 “NABH accreditation plays a crucial role in reducing medical errors in hospitals,” says Dr C N Manjunath, director, Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research, the only government hospital in the state to get a gold status accreditation.
 
 Doctors think incentivizing NABH-accredited hospitals will go a long way in ensuring patient safety. “Like in the US, if insurance companies and third parties here pay more for a procedure conducted in NABH-accredited hospitals than in other hospitals, both hospitals and patients will go for the accreditation,” says Dr Ballal.
 
 “Also, with medical tourism flourishing, most hospitals will benefit if they are certified for quality standards because that will bring them not only local but also national and international patients,” says Dr Rao.
 
 What is NABH?
 
 NABH is a constituent board of Quality Council of India, set up to establish and operate accreditation programme for healthcare organizations. The board is structured to cater to the needs of patients and set benchmarks for progress of healthcare industry. The board has full functional autonomy in its operation.
 
