Congress   working president Dinesh Gundu Rao cites the income-tax searches on the son-in-law of former external affairs minister SM Krishna to allege such a fate awaits those who join BJP under ‘coercion’. Excerpts:
 
  
 
  Siddartha is a business tycoon, not member of a political party. Yet, I think, the political message is irrelevant of his father-in-law SM Krishna joining the BJP. They took him for a specific purpose, used him and have discarded him. They have left him high and dry.
  
  
 
  They wanted a senior leader to leave the Congress. We had two by-elections and they thought his joining them would damage our party. After the elections got over, they discarded him. They have not given him any importance or position of stature. Even when BJP national president   came to Bengaluru, Krishna was totally sidelined.
  
  
 
  Politically, it did not make sense for Krishna to join BJP. The BJP’s dirty tricks department indulges in blackmailing. They threaten and coerce people. I am talking of the BJP of Amit Shah and  , not of Vajpayee and Advani. I will not put it past them that they pressured Krishna. We heard the taped conversation between BJP state president   and Union minister Anantkumar that Siddartha was there and the appointment had to be fixed quickly. I cannot say more without proof, but there were a lot of questions raised when Krishna joined the BJP.
  
  
 
  There is no comparison to what has been done to our leaders. It is not like they are targeting some powerful BJP leaders like Yeddyurappa, Eshwarappa, Murgesh Nirani or Shobha Karandlaje. In Congress, all politically strong and powerful people like Ramesh Jarkiholi, Laxmi Hebbalkar, K Govindraju and DK Shivakumar have been raided. The message is either you bend down or we will come after you, harass you. Ultimately all this won’t work in politics. The more you try the more it rebounds.
  
  
 
  It shows what BJP is all about. How they ruthlessly exploit people. I think people who are being coerced and pressured to join BJP may now fear that they cannot trust them. They will fear being used and disposed.
  
