AMARAVATI: The state government's decision to amend the Land Acquisition Act, 2013, based on the Gujarat model, has triggered off panic among farmers, who had opted out of the government's Land Pooling Scheme (LPS), in the capital city area.

 The state cabinet on Saturday made a proposal to study the recently-amended Gujarat Land Acquisition Act. The Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition Act, 2013 legislated by the erstwhile UPA regime, prohibits acquisition of multicrop irrigated lands for any purpose, including government projects.
 
 The Gujarat government has removed Section 300 (A) of the central enacted law which makes it mandatory for any government to follow certain guidelines to acquire land from farmers.
 
 It also removed Section 31 (A) which prescribed stringent guidelines for acquisition. As per the guidelines, social impact assessment (SIA) must be conducted before land acquisition. With these changes, the state government can easily acquire land by paying compensation for any project without conducting SIA.
 
 "Making such amendments is nothing but disregarding the democratic process and the law enacted by Parliament," farmer leader Mallela Seshagiri Rao said.
 
 The Gujarat act also did away with chapters II and III which prevented the acquisition of multicrop irrigated lands.
 
 "Acquisition of green fields was prohibited to protect food security of the nation. Removing such a crucial clause is nothing but acting against the poor and farmers of the country," said a farmer G Naresh Reddy of Penumaka.
 
 Defending the need to change certain clauses in the 2013 act, agriculture minister   said the   had offered a decent compensation to farmers under the Land Pooling Scheme
 (LPS) but still the entire extent could not be acquired.
 
 "How is it reasonable for 0.5% of the people not to agree when 99.5% had parted with their lands?
 
 The government is left with no other option but to amend the law," he said.
 
 The state government acquired nearly 33,000 acres of land under LPS and is planning to take over another 6,000 to 8,000 acres through acquisition mode after making amendments to the land act.
 
 It may be recalled that the BJP-led   had made a futile attempt to amend the Land Acquisition Act in 2015. It issued an ordinance to remove certain clauses from the 2013 Act saying they were against development. Following protests and criticism from the BJP's own farming wing Kisan Morcha, the Centre moved a bill in the Parliament. After failing to get enough numbers in the Rajya Sabha, the government gave up on it. But, the BJP national leadership encouraged the states ruled by it to go ahead with the proposed amendments. Gujarat was the first state to make the amendments in August last year.
 
