Panaji:   will soon receive a place among   other   from across the world, in the Holy Land. A ceramic   bearing the verses of the Magnificatthe Virgin Mary’s canticle of praise to the Lordin Konkani, is being installed at the Shrine of the Visitation in Ein Karem on the outskirts of Jerusalem; a site visited by thousands of pilgrims throughout the year.

 The 120x85cm panel of the Magnificat in Konkani is being placed beside those containing the words of the same hymn in Belarusian, Georgian, Amharic and Malayalam. It will be located in the inner courtyard of the shrine; the traditional holy site that commemorates the meeting of the Virgin Mary and her cousin Elizabeth, who was pregnant with St John de Baptist when Mary recited the canticle.
 
 Archbishop Patriarch of Goa and Daman, Filipe Neri Ferrao, along with Vicar General Fr Jose Remedios Fernandes and the Patriarch of   will inaugurate and bless the prayer in Konkani in the presence of 100 pilgrims from Goa and Kolkata, at a special ceremony on Monday evening in Ein Karem. 
 
 With many countries vying for the limited spots on the Magnificat wall, it was a challenge securing a space for Konkani, says Paul Siqueira, proprietor of Zion Tours and Travels, a pilgrimage travel company based in Goa, who took the initiative and has sponsored the panel.
 
 It was only after the intervention of the Archdiocese that a space was reserved for Konkani among the few slots. 
 
 In a letter to Fr Francesco Patton, the Custos of Terrae Sanctae, Jerusalem, on July 1 this year, Archbishop Ferrao had explained that Konkani had been given official status by the Government of India and had been adopted as the state language of Goa. He had further said that the language is spoken by around four million people across India, with approximately another three million Konkanophones spread throughout the globe. 
 
 “It is a great honour for us that Konkani will share space with languages from around the world. The panel will remain for posterity and will be visible to the hundreds of Goans who visit the holy site,” Siqueira said. 
 
 A Konkani translation of the ‘Our Father’, already shares space with over 150 other translations of the venerated Christian prayer at the Church of Pater Noster (Our Father) on the Mount of Olives in Jerusalem.
 
 
