CHENNAI: After city police conducted a study to understand the pattern behind road accidents on Maduravoyal-Tambaram   road, they found that ‘poor lighting’ was a dominant factor. Police have asked the   (NHAI) officials to provide proper lighting all through the stretch from   to Ambattur. 

 The city traffic police wrote to the NHAI demanding they fulfill their request as the NH-32 stretch is maintained by the NHAI. The traffic police also reiterated the same issue during a meeting recently held in Chennai, in which the Tamil Nadu transport authorities also participated. 
 
 According to police statistics, at least 36 people died and 158 people were injured on this stretch in 2016. At least 17 people died so far and 43 people were injured in road accidents reported on the stretch from January to June. Sixteen fatal accidents in 2016 and nine in 2017 were reported on this stretch between 6pm and 6am, which can be corroborated to  . The stretch from Irumbuliyur to Ambattur on the National   - 32 via  , Porur and Maduravoyal falls under the city police jurisdiction 
 
 Data revealed that there were 152 accidents, claiming 36 lives and injuring 158 persons, on the stretch in 2016 and up to June this year there were at least 54 accidents resulting in 17 deaths and 43 people injured making the stretch one of the most dangerous roads in Chennai in terms of road traffic accidents. Police sources said there were at least three dozen crimes reported on this stretch in 2017 alone. 
 
 Analysing accidents in terms of period on Madhuravoyal bypass revealed that at least 16 fatal accidents and 47 non-fatal accidents in 2016 and 9 fatal accidents and 12 non-fatal accidents in 2017 (up to June) have occurred between 6pm and 6am. 
 
 Moreover as many residential apartments have come up on this stretch and accidents have occurred while the vehicles travelled onward and outward journey at the road merging points. 
 
 The study highlighted inadequate illumination, lack of reflective materials/ markings, uneven topography of the road surface, inadequate speed breakers are identified as reasons for accidents on Maduravoyal by-pass. The NHAI officials promised to take immediate steps to save human lives and also to prevent crime incidents. The traffic police requested the highway be provided with street lights to improve illumination along the entire stretch. 
 
 Police suggested increasing reflective signs and installing more number of road equipment like solar studs, delineators, median markers, etc. Installing speed breakers at the mouth of side roads to slow down motorists entering the highway and installing rumble strips and cautionary LED blinkers at the junctions to caution the motorist on highway roads would also help, they said.
 
