JAIPUR: The Jaipur Municipal Corporation’s (JMC) preparations were exposed by the Swachh Sarvekshan-2017 team which reached on Friday to start survey for clean city in Jaipur. 

 Out of three officials who arrived from the Centre in the morning, two women officers carried out survey separately in the city, while one member reached the JMC headquarters to collect the data and check the documentation process. 
 
 As per the plan, the JMC officials took the teams near the airport area for inspection, which was already clean. However, official who was monitoring the survey at Centre directed them to inspect the land filling sites at  . 
 
 This has surprised the officials as JMC has failed to dispose of garbage in a proper manner at both the sites.
 
 The rotten smell at the land filling areas forced the surveyors to call for a face mask. The surveyors also enquired the amount of garbage collected per day and how much is disposed. They inspected nearly 150km area in the city and also took feedback from the residents. 
 
 It appears to be uphill task for the JMC to score points in sanitation ranking as it is still short of fully-fledged preparations. Under  , cities would be marked on a scale of 2,000. Out of this, 900 marks will be based on the feedback from urban local bodies, 600 on the feedback given by citizens and 500 on the observation made by the survey team.
 
 Civic body is yet to ensure proper collection and segregation of waste in the run-up to the cleanliness survey of 500 towns and cities across the country by the Union government. 
 
 One of the parameters of the survey included door-to-door garbage collection and disposal of solid waste. But, JMC has so far, failed to initiate door-to-door garbage collection scheme and proper segregation of waste has not started yet either. Also, waste-to-energy plans have hit a roadblock due to the lack of a   (PPA). 
 
 The city might also lose points on construction of toilets in the houses. The JMC has received application to construct 18,000 toilets in houses, but only 6,000 toilets have been constructed so far. As far as construction of public toilets is concerned, there are only 150 public and community toilets in the city. 
 
