NAGPUR: It may be hard to believe but almost one in five residents of the city is having some sort of crime record. City police crime branch has data of five lakh people having their names in police records for different reasons. City’s population as per 2011 census was just over 24 lakh. The data have been made available to 29 police stations and other units of city police as well as senior officers like divisional ACPs and Zonal DCPs to plan strategies for curbing crime. The data are now being upgraded too. 

 The collating of data, started under former CP SP  , has been fine tuned by Adds CP (in-charge), crime, Ranjan Kumar   over last few months. The crime branch is also nodal agency for analysing and interpreting the records and sending alerts regarding various criminals, especially hardened ones and repeaters, to police stations and other units. It has become a major aid for the cops as CP K   and his second-in-command Jt CP Shivaji Bodkhe are stressing on maximum preventive actions.
 
 Earlier, police units depended upon crime branch for getting background information on crimes registered against any person. This consumed time and also allowed the hardened goons to get away with milder actions. The comprehensive data have now brought the past records of any accused, whether a first timer or habitual one, within a click for any personnel working at any unit in the commissionerate. 
 
 Sharma, who supervised collating and analysing the data, said they had classified the figures on the basis of number of offences registered against a person and the nature of such crimes perpetrated by them and provided it to all units. “The data had been collated on the basis of the available resources in manual records from the past, Crime and Criminal Tracking Network & Systems (CCTNS) and other available sources available,” he said.
 
 Sharma said the broad classification is of the accused having one, two or more, and five and more cases against their name. This would help the police stations decide on nature of prevention action to be taken. “Persons having more cases can expect to be treated with more stringent provisions than those having fewer offences. Also, the period during which a person committed the crimes and lull periods have also been provided. Police stations can use the data in multiple ways to keep the criminals under pressure,” he added. 
 
 Crime branch is also acting like an advisory body for the police units regarding the criminals having records of particular type of offences and their modus operandi to prevent and detect incidents. 
 
