KOCHI: A famous actor from the south Indian film industry was allegedly raped inside her moving Audi on Friday night while she was headed for Kochi from her home in Thrissur. 

 The man driving her car,  , and  , aka Pulsar Sunil, a historysheeter, allegedly connived to stage an accident before she was raped. 
 
 While Martin has been arrested, Sunil, the main accused, is on the run with four others. Sunil was the actor’s   till a few months ago. “An FIR has been registered with sections of rape, criminal intimidation, criminal conspiracy and relevant sections of the IT Act,” said a senior police officer. Police said the actor’s medical examination has confirmed rape. 
 
 The actor was on her way to dub for a film when her car was stopped at Athani, near Angamaly. “The actor’s car was hit from behind by a Tempo Traveller when Martin stopped the car, stepped out and got into a so-called altercation. Three men entered the car and started abusing the actor even as Martin started driving the car. 
 
 The accused also shot a video and clicked pictures of the actor while abusing her for nearly an hour en route,” said a senior police officer.The car was stopped subsequently and Martin got into the Tempo Traveller, which was tailing the Audi, police said. “One more accused entered the car. The attackers later left her in the car near Padamugal when Martin got into the car again,” police said. Martin drove the actor to the house of a film director who informed police about the crime.
 
 “Since sexual harassment is involved, the actor’s identity cannot be revealed. An investigation is on in this regard,” Kochi city police commissioner M P   said. The actor underwent a medical examination at Kalamassery Medical College and gave a detailed statement in camera at the Kalamassery magistrate court. Preliminary investigation revealed that Sunil got Martin the driver’s job. Police have also traced records of phone conversations and text messages between Martin and Sunil. “The duo made over 40 phone calls to each other on Friday, apart from sending several text messages,” said an officer with Ernakulam Rural police.
 
