CHENNAI: Mounting pressure on the Centre, senior   on Thursday met   in New Delhi and sought an exemption for   from the   ( ) for medical and dental admissions. 

 The five-member ministerial team from Tamil Nadu, led by Lok Sabha deputy speaker M Thambidurai, also met three Union ministers to impress upon them the need to get Presidential assent for the two bills passed by the state assembly exempting students from the state from taking NEET for admission to undergraduate and postgraduate medical and dental courses. 
 
 “The Union ministries of health and law are not in favour of the bills passed by the Tamil Nadu assembly seeking exemption. They have sent their opinion to the home ministry. Our MPs also met the home minister on Wednesday and we are hopeful he will take a different view. The Prime Minister said he will consider our request,” health minister C Vijaya Baskar told TOI. TN team also urged the Centre to exempt the state from NEET this year, akin to last year, as medical counselling yet to begin in the state.
 
 The Tamil Nadu assembly had passed two bills in February – Tamil Nadu Admission to MBBS and Dental Courses Bill – to do away with any entrance test for medical admissions and admit students to UG medical courses based on Class 12 board marks. The Tamil Nadu Admission to Post Graduate Courses in Medicine and Dentistry Bill was also passed with the opposition endorsing it through voice vote. On Thursday, Union ministers J P Nadda (health), Prakash Javadekar (HRD) and Ravishankar Prasad (law) gave a patient hearing to the TN team. Thambidurai said the NDA government should not be faulted, as the NEET notification was issued in 2010 by the UPA regime, which the DMK was part of.
 
 Meanwhile, the DMK district secretaries’ meet led by working president M K Stalin on Thursday announced an hour-long human chain rally on July 27 in district headquarters against NEET, and the state’s failure to get the exemption. “Until the DMK was in power, we made sure NEET did not come to the state at all. Larger issues are involved as it goes against social justice and infringes on the rights of the state. It has become such a mess now with the AIADMK not being firm on the issue. The students’ future looks bleak because of the inept government response., which was glad with last year exemptionOnly after the DMK took up the issue in the assembly and Parliament did the AIADMK ministers visit Delhi,” DMK Rajya Sabha MP Kanimozhi said. 
 
 TNCC chief S Thirunavukkarasar said the party would join the DMK protests, if an invite was extended to the allies for the welfare of students.
 
 (with inputs from Pushpa Narayan)
 
 
