
For a boy who studied in a hostel in Puttaparthi, and spent 10 months in a year away from home, Ugadi meant the beginning of happiness because it meant holidays. 
 At home, on the festival day, I woke up early to the shouts of my mum asking me to wake up and help dad with the mango leaves. I remember, plucking the mango leaves from my neighbours mango tree. I just climbed the compound wall and reached out to the best looking leaves. After all this work, I would then be rewarded with some yummy food and lots of Ugadi pachadi, which I would eat as a meal in itself rather then as a prasad. And the day would end with playing cricket with friends and family members in the neighbourhood.
 
 
 
 Ugadi for me is about cleaning up and then decorating the house, specially the mango leaf toran just outside the main door of the house. The bevu bella or the pachadi is a tradition that is characteristic of the New Year celebration. Bevu here refers to the neem leaves, and reflects the bitter in life, and bella is jaggery reflecting the sweet in life. I would always hope for more bella, and less bevu (laughs) whenever I took the prasad after the morning puja at home. 
 
 
 For me Ugadi has always been all about food and sense of freshness in life. What I really look forward to the most festival which I look forward to is the polilu made with jaggery. There’s also this belief that what you do on Ugadi will set the tone for the rest of the year. So we would wake up early, take a shower and do puja the first thing in the morning, so that the year begins on a divine note. 
 
 
 
 Ugadi pachadi is my favourite thing about this festival. Believe it or not, I actually look forward to having it every year. And I think my mom makes the best version of it. I just love it. The pachadi it a mix of emotions and the up and downs of human life. But I always liked the pachadi a little sweeter. I somehow believed adding more sweet will make my life sweeter (laughs). Moreover, I count my year from this festival, like 2015-2016 was a bad year for me but 2016-2017 was good and I hope this year if nicer for me. Ugadi has been a new start of the year for me always.
 
