MUMBAI: Both BJP and Shiv Sena were on tenterhooks all through Wednesday as the two parties mulled over postpoll options as chances of a hung BMC loomed large over the city's skyline. The election results will be out today.

 Going back to the BJP to assume power in the BMC could be the worst scenario for the Sena, party sources said on Wednesday. `Vasant Smriti', the Mumbai BJP headquarters in Dadar, too seemed in a quandary following reports from grass root workers that a good chunk of Mumbai's north Indian voters may have gone to the Congress, a direct fallout of the UP polls.
 
 However, a heavy turnout of the Gujarati-Marwari trading class across Mumbai has warmed the cockles of BJP's heart. “The Sena's anti-demonetisation crusade just didn't work in the election. The mercantile class stood by us in a big way,“ said Atul Bhatkhalkar, BJP MLA from Kandivli.The city Gujaratis turned away from the Sena because of Uddhav Thackeray's bitter attacks on PM   during electioneering, said Bhatkhalkar.
 
 'To BJP or not to BJP' is the Sena's dilemma. “ A sizeable section of the Sena rank and file are stridently opposed to teaming up with BJP after the civic elections,“ said a party functionary. On Wednesday, Matoshree got down to exploring post-poll equations in the Mumbai civic corporation.
 
 It appears that Uddhav's high-decibel attacks on the BJP during the poll campaign will be a major stumbling block for his party to once again team up with its former ally in the corporation.
 
 “We severed ties with the BJP in the run-up to the BMC election. Uddhavji fired salvos upon salvos against the BJP. CM   too launched a broadside against Uddhavji.   made money-laundering charges against Matoshree. This has generated an anti-BJP mood in the party. Uddhavji may find it hard to pacify Sainiks and convince them on the need to go back to BJP,“ he added.
 
 Thackeray has asked the party vibhag pramukhs (a crucial organisational post in the Sena heirarchy) to work on three possibilities based on varying poll results --80, 85 or 95 seats. Should the Sena fail to go beyond 80 seats, the party will swallow its pride and seek the BJP's help to assume control of the BMC. Ditto will be the scenario if the Sena stops at 85 seats.
 
 In that case, the BJP will seek its pound of flesh--the city mayorship for two and a half years, and chairmanship of two statutory committees, for instance.
 
 Again, the spectre of 'transparency in the civic administration', Fadnavis's pet theme during the poll campaign, will continue to hang over the Sena's head. “ Accepting the BJP's 'transparency' condition will mean a climbdown for the Sena,“ said a former party mayor.
 
 The rosiest scenario for Matoshree could be that the Sena bags 90 seats, in which case Thackeray will not need BJP's crutches. The Sena will tap smaller parties such as the MNS or Independents, said BMC observers. The Sena fervently hopes that MNS gets 1012 seats in the civic body, it is learnt.
 
 
  
 
