Visakhapatnam: In an environmental and pocket-friendly initiative, the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation wants to tap into the non-conventional energy sources and produce more than 9MW solar power.

 Addressing the media here on Friday, GVMC commissioner M Hari Narayanan said that they have already floated tenders for a 2MW floating solar power plant on Mudasarlova reservoir. 
 
 “Under the Smart City initiative, solar panels will be mounted on 144 GVMC school buildings and 22 government offices in the city. A 5MW solar power project on Raiwada canal is also under active consideration. The solar energy capacity of all these projects will be more than 9MW and it will cost the exchequer of the GVMC to the tune of Rs 60 crore,” Hari Narayanan said.
 
 On the other hand, GVMC also wants to take the solar street lighting project on a pilot basis. It will also make more households to take up the solar power route.
 
 Hari Narayanan also explained how they are going to augment the capacity of 38 MLD sewage treatment plant near Poorna Market to 70 MLC. “About 32 MLD tertiary treated water from this plant will be supplied to the industries within the vicinity. This will help the civic body to supply more water to the households of the city as it will reduce the burden on the water supply network” said Mr Narayanan.
 
 Hari Narayanan explained the progress of various Smart City projects. 
 
 “The United States Trade and Development Agency will come up with the preliminary report of smart city master plan framework in September 2017. The targeted approach against seasonal vector-borne diseases is giving decent results. If a dengue or malaria case is reported from a particular area, the patient’s health is continuously monitored and spraying and anti-larval operations are intensified in that particular area,” he said.
 
 “The GVMC has been lagging behind in household water tax collections despite reaching targets in property tax collection. I request all the people to pay water taxes on time to take up various development works,” said Hari Narayanan.
 
 
