I have been in a relationship with my girlfriend for 8-9 months and everything between us was pretty smooth until recently. I have always loved her immensely and I have no doubts in terms of her loyalty and love for me. We shared about our past relationships and were quite comfortable with each other ever since we started going out. 

 We then took our relationship to the next level at a certain point by being intimate with each other. I was particularly awestruck by the oral sex I had with her, so much so that I ended up asking her how she got so good at it. She told me that it was because of her learning that came from watching porn movies, which somehow I didn't find very convincing. I asked her again the next time we had oral sex and she finally confessed about a few times in the past where she has had a similar experience with her ex. 
 
 Ever since she told me this, I have not been able to have a good time with her, both emotionally and physically. I have mixed feelings about her past life now and I'm unable to forget about the physical part she shared with me. Sometimes it gets worse to an extent that I think of her as an easy going girl. It bothers me a lot because regardless of all this I still love her. Please help me resolve this issue as I really like her a lot and don't want to jeopardise our relationship because of such thoughts.
 
 
 
 
 
 It is nice to know that you have found someone who makes you happy. Please remember that physical intimacy is just one aspect, but also an important one of having a meaningful and satisfying relationship.
 
 Suspicion can sometimes be more damaging to a couple than actual infidelity. I would suggest that you have an open minded talk with your girlfriend to appraise her about your feelings. Talking to her and valuing her feelings can help you understand her better and how she has taken it up. 
 
 If nothing seems to work, you can seek the help of a mental health professional for couples’ therapy as a means to open up.
 
 
 
 
 Want expert advice for your relationship? Send us an email at expertadvice.toi@gmail.com
 
 
