A visit to the museum of the   at Cholamandal Artists’ Village on the occasion of the celebration of its fiftieth anniversary reminds one of K C S Paniker, the visionary founder’s statement that the village would be Indian in spirit and global when it came to contemporary art. The village, located at Injambakkam, Chennai consists of studios, residential houses, a permanent museum of paintings and sculptures, outdoor theatres, an office and a store and workshop for batik and metal work. Around the central area where these shared facilities are located, a group of painters and sculptors live in houses which they own individually. Forty painters and sculptors who established the village make up the Artists’ Handicrafts Association that administers the village.

 Collectively writing about the concept of Cholamandal in 1964 in their journal, ‘Arttrends’, the artists declared, " Tired of the existing conditions of the life of the creative worker in India today, some of the restless painters and sculptors of Madras resolved that they would henceforth live a fuller life in society as creative artists. As paintings and sculptures do not sell sufficiently they would employ part time, say two or three hours a day in creative handicrafts for independent living. They would extend their art onto these…(they were) convinced that a more complete acceptance of the modern artist by the people will be achieved partly and to a greater extent, at that, by the normal and natural education in aesthetics and tastes of the people through utilitarian craft work created by them. It is felt that the gulf that exists between the artist and the people can be bridged this way, effectively".
 
 In 1977, the journal thus chronicled the history of Cholamandal: "On the 13th of April 1964 the association completed the purchase of the land in a month’s time. In May 1964 the first group of seven artists moved out to the place to live and work. It was hard putting up their huts, painting, making batiks and selling them; going up six miles for vegetables and provisions, walking the distance when bus service broke down, suffering the heat and dust. The rains and the cyclone sometimes blew the huts away and destroyed their paintings. It is ten years now from those days, the studios and store have asbestos roofing now, houses have come up with brick wall and terrace roofing. There is a permanent gallery where exhibitions are held and an open air theatre where performances take place. Sales turnover from handicrafts averages a lakh of rupees a year. The telephone has come, and visitors are constant. Artists paint and sculpt as and when they see fit, assured of a place to work, a roof over them and their families and a community that sustains the spirit." 
 
 In 2017, Cholamandal is a posh suburb of Chennai. Speaking at the event of the 50th anniversary celebrations, artists S Nandagopal, M Senathipathi, P Gopinath, and V Viswanathan elucidated the generosity of Paniker and how the village served as the liminal space for the artists and evolved into a cultural space of modernity and self-reliance. Cholamandal has not received any funding from government agencies, and yet it has become an internationally renowned centre for its artistic excellence and grounding in South Indian culture.
 
 The museum of the Madras Art Movement at Cholamandal exhibits representative sculptures and paintings of 55 artists associated with the movement. Madras Art Movement recognised the importance of drawing and the expressivity of the line (how form and space are represented through lines) as the central elements to embody art in tradition and contemporaneity. Drawing decides the understanding of space and form and no fundamental departure in the ways of seeing could be created unless a new drawing is conceived and executed. Grounding their knowledge of the expressivity of the line in the traditional craftsmanship of South India, the artists of the movement evolved a variety of personal styles and compositions. While the source of objective strength and authority came from the traditional sources of craftsmanship, the personal idiom of the individual artists makes their works modern and contemporary.
 
 (The author is a folklorist and scholar)
 
 
