HYDERABAD: It hasn't been an easy ride for   thus far in the home leg of the  . The hosts have failed to drive home the advantage after a bright start and half-way through their home leg, the Titans look shaky and weak.

 The hosts made a roaring start with a comfortable 32-27 win over debutants Tamil Thalaivas in the opening game but have struggled thereafter. The Titans lost to Patna Pirates 29-35 and to make matters worse, they were mauled badly by  , who won 31-21 on Sunday.
 
 Are the Titans depending too much on the magic of  ? The Titans' talismanic skipper, who has notched up 500 points in the previous game, is on top of the total points table with 21 points but his effectiveness has diminished a bit. The Titans were left clueless against the Bulls as the rivals had bottled up Rahul. The others failed to come to the party and that hurt the hosts badly.
 
 That is one issue which the Titans will have to address when they lock horns with   on Tuesday. The Nitin Tomar-led Yoddhas, who are making their VIVO Pro Kabaddi debut this season, have the potential to be one of the best raiding team in the league. The likes of Rishank Devadiga, Tomar and all-rounder Rajesh Narwal gives the Uttar Pradesh team the best raiding combination and capability of winning matches on their own. The defence is led by experienced Jeeva Kumar, who was a part of the U Mumba team for the first four VIVO Pro Kabaddi campaigns. However, the Yoddhas will depend on Jeeva Kumar a lot as none of the other defenders have played more than 15 VIVO Pro Kabaddi matches.
 
 Gujarat FortuneGiants, also debutants, will take on   in the first match of the day and their skipper Sukesh Hegde is confident of a good start. “We have young and energetic raiders such as Mahendra Rajput, Sachin Tawar and Rakesh Narwal. We have worked hard on the defence front too. Fazel Atrachali and Abozar Mighani are seasoned players and are well aware of what is expected of them. Overall, we have got a well-balanced team. I am sure ‘Garjega Gujarat',” Hegde said on the eve of their match.
 
 It is going to be a double delight for the Hedge as he will not only lead a VIVO Pro Kabaddi team for the first time but will also play his 50th VIVO Pro Kabaddi match. Hegde was previously associated with the Titans.
 
 
