PUNE: The state   is planning to release about 4 TMC (thousand million cubic feet) of   for summer crops, citing adequate water stock in dams.

 The department had not released water last summer because of drought and depleted water levels. Irrigation department officials said that dams would have adequate quantity of water even after making provision for city’s water requirement till July.
 
 The irrigation department said that despite this year’s satisfactory water levels, it has remained tight-fisted over release of water from dams, which has led to a saving of at least 1 TMC of water so far, and there are plans to save another 1 TMC of water till July, the department said.
 
 The four dams ---- Panshet, Varasgaon, Khadakwasla and Temghar---- have a collective storage capacity of 29 TMC, out of which about 14 TMC is lifted by the city and remaining used for agriculture in winter and summer. Water stock in all four dams had reached to full capacity during last monsoon.
 
 Irrigation officials said on Monday that they have initiated release of water as part of second winter rotation, which will continue for another 10 to 15 days. The summer rotation will be taken up in April and continue for a month. Officials, however, claimed that water release will not affect the city’s water supply as city’s quota will remain intact till July. “As of now, we are ready with a plan to initiate summer rotation. But plans can undergo a change as per requirement,” officials said.
 
 Officials, however, asked the   to ensure minimum wastage of water and avoid lifting of additional water in the coming days to ensure that the city does not face water scarcity before the arrival of monsoon.
 
 The department has said that dams release about 8 TMC of water during two rotations of winter. This year, the release will be restricted to 7 TMC (3.5 TMC in each rotation), leading to a saving of about 1 TMC water. The department has claimed that it is lifting treated sewage water from Mundhwa jack well and will continue with the practice in next three months of summer, which will help save another 1 TMC of water.
 
 “We are operating 4 motors at the jack well to lift water and release it for irrigation in rural areas. The motors were shut for a few days because of some interruption in power supply which has been rectified,” officials said.
 
 The city has been drawing 1350 MLD water every day since January as against earlier daily quota of 1200 MLD. A decision to increase daily release for the city was taken at a meeting held by guardian minister   after it was reviewed that dams have adequate water stock to increase daily supply of water.
 
 
