
 
    or Bore is the first   in   taluka that one has to pass through when commuting from Salcete and other parts of South Goa to North Goa and even to the neighbouring state of Karnataka.
  Encompassing a land area of 1,536.07 acres and housing a population of 8,257 persons of which 6,454 are electorates, the village has a rich legacy dating back to the 12th century Kadamba era, when the Kamleshwar temple was built at Deulwada by the Kadamba queen, Kamaladevi.
  Borim, which shares it borders with Bethora, Dhavali and Shiroda, comprises nine wards and has vadde (traditional village wards) like Deulwada, Tolop, Azordem, Tishem, Tanshirem, Taribhat, Shirshirem, Avedem, Betki, Kalmamol, etc.
  The name ‘Bore’ is etymologically derived from the word Bora (berry, zizyphus). It is said that the village had many Bora trees at some point in time.
  Another story behind the village’s name is told by Nitin Laxmidas Borkar, who lives in Kalmamol. “The origin of the village name seems to be from Badrigram, given by the first settlers from north India in ancient times. Almost all Borkars in Goa are from Borim. But, there are several Borkars from villages near Pune, Osmanabad and Nagpur in Maharashtra, where there are villages named Bori, with reference to the fruit. But, they are not connected to Goa,” he says.
  Parish priest of St Francis Xavier Church, Fr Manuel Pascoal Gomes, who is presently writing a book on Borim Christians, describes Borim as ‘Borem Munsiacho Ganv’ (Village of Good People).
  Borim village also has its own presence on the internet through a non-government website run by the Bori Development Trust.
  
  
 
  
  
 
  This Kuldevta (family deity) temple situated at Deulwada is over 500 years old. Its two zatras, of four days each, are celebrated on Kartik Purnima (full moon day between November and December) and Ram Navami (birthday of Lord Rama between March and April).
  
  
 
  Like the other temples of Sai Baba of Shirdi, which are thronged by devotees in India, this shrine constructed at Toribhat is held in reverence by both worshippers and visitors.
  
  
 
  A landmark in the village that one spots before crossing the Borim bridge, it was established and consecrated on December 26, 1946, and January 15, 1947, respectively. The village also has many chapels. A prominent one is Our Lady of Lourdes Chape at Deulwada.
  
  
 
  It is older than the parish church and is another significant spot before reaching the bridge from the Ponda taluka side.
  
  
 
  One of the 12 heritage houses of Goa, it is over 250 years old. There are over 100 living members of the Sawkar clan. Presently, only Subhas Sawkar and his spouse reside in this magnificent abode of the bygone era.
  One of the 12 heritage houses of Goa, it is over 250 years old. There are over 100 living members of the Sawkar clan. Presently, only Subhas Sawkar and his spouse reside in this magnificent abode of the bygone era.
  
  
 
  Almost 150 years old, the house, situated at Taribhat, is of an immense heritage value. No member of Bakibab’s family reside in it and the government must protect and preserve this historic residence, say villagers
  
  
  
 
  A statue of this popular son of Borim was erected around a decade ago in the vicinity of the Shree Navadurga Devasthan
  
  
  
  
 was a poet in Marathi and Konkani, a freedom fighter, author and worked to retain Goa's identity in the Opinion Poll, 1967
  
  
 was a Bhakti saint
  
  
 was an educationist, social worker and physician
  
  
 was a freedom fighter and scribe
  
  
 was India’s second drug controller
  
  
 was among India’s harmonium players
  
  
 is a Dadasaheb Phalke award winner. He was a stunt man and makeup-artiste in the Hindi film industry and later manufactured cosmetics used by artistes in theatre, film and television
  
  
 is an educationist
  
  
 is a noted scientist in the pharmaceutical industry and is founder partner and CEO of VerGo Pharma at Verna
  
  
  
 is a doctor in the village who specializes in obstetrics and gynaecology
  
  
 was former superior general of the Society of Pilar
  
  
 and late 
 of the Society of Pilar
  
  
 of Holy Family Convent, Sancoale
  
  
 of Pilar Sisters Association
  
  
 alias 
 is a criminal lawyer, tiatr producer, director, actor, writer and playwright
  
  
 
  Borim bridge, which is currently undergoing repair work, is handling traffic beyond its capacity. As an immediate priority, an alternative full-time solution has to be found to ease its burden - either by the construction of a new bridge or the repair of the old Portuguese bailey bridge - 
 
  
  
  Borim is home to Siddhanath Parvat, one of the highest peaks in Goa. River Zuari on one side and the hills on three sides further enhance the beauty of our village which houses over 50 temples, including the Shiva temple of Siddeshwar and Suryanarayan. There is the Bhadrakuli Tollem (lake with spiritual powers), the church and chapels which are important landmarks in the village.
  
 
  
  Apart from natural and heritage wonders, our village has also given birth to some outstanding Goans, three who have been bestowed with the Padma Shree award. There is a dire need to upgrade its infrastructure like health, sports and education.
  
  
