CHANDIGARH: The   on Tuesday approved formulation of   voluntary state education service rules, 2017, for taking over teaching and non-teaching staff working in government aided schools across the state. 

  The meeting was held under the chairmanship of chief minister  . Under the new rules, Rs one lakh fine would be imposed for each minor violation committed by managements of aided schools with respect to utilisation of land and buildings of the schools for non-educational purposes after taking over the staff in voluntary education service. 
 
 No objection certificates and recognition of aided schools would be withdrawn in case of major violations. Managements of aided schools would have to ensure clearance of the dues of the employees prior to their appointment under these rules. Ggrant-in-aid would not be payable to the aided schools in respect of posts incumbent of which have been taken over in voluntary education service.
 
 The cabinet also approved Draft Stage Carriage Permit Scheme-2017 under Motor Vehicles Act, 1988, was also approved by the cabinet under which 452 intra-state routes will be given to private operators in the state. 
 
 The permits will be granted to an applicant subject to the clearance of dues in respect of previous permits, if any. The permits already granted under the City Bus Service Scheme, 2004 will be valid. Cabinet also approved the Haryana Motor Vehicles Taxation (Amendment) Ordinance, 2017, and reduced the rate of interest from 1.5 % to one per cent on amount of tax due and penalty. 
 
 The cabinet also approved the onetime settlement scheme of Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC) for clearance of enhanced cost default in one go by allottees of industrial plots. 75% rebate would be given in the amount of interest and delayed interest in default towards payment of enhanced compensation against demands raised from them.
 
 In another decision, the cabinet decided to provide loan of Rs 750 crore to the two power distribution companies (DISCOMs) in the state running in losses at a concessional rate of interest of about 3% lower than the market rate under the Ujjwal Discom Assurance Yojana (UDAY) scheme. 
 
 
