NEW DELHI: With just a few days left for Durga Puja, the organising committees across the city are busy giving final touches to their pandals. In their bid to stand out, most have either opted for theme-based pandals with a social message or gone fully traditional. 

 The organisers at   in Chittaranjan Park have decided to highlight the confluence of the culture of Bengal and the northeastern states. “While the pandal will have the traditional Bengali setting, the idols will be draped in attires from the Northeast states,” said Neil Guha, a member of the organising committee. 
 
 The committee has chosen the theme following Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s emphasis on the Northeast states, said Guha. Craftsmen have been brought from Bengal to design the pandal for the Puja that would cost around Rs 45 lakh, he added. Considering the huge footfall during the Puja days, the organisers have decided not to call any celebrity to perform at its cultural programme in order to avoid any untoward incident. 
 
 The organisers at   in Safdarjung Enclave are focusing on the contribution of women and their empowerment. Their panal will showcase the success stories of legendary Indian women in various fields this year, said general secretary Debashis Saha.
 
 “Besides having lifesize cutouts of these women, three main gates to the pandal will also have woman-centric themes. The first gate will be named after Poorna, the tribal girl who conquered   at the age of 13. The Second gate will be dedicated to Naba Durga — different forms of Goddess Durga depicting the strength to fight evil. The third gate will celebrate the women power through a tree that gives us oxygen,” Saha said, adding that they will spend around Rs 20 lakh on the pandal alone out of their Rs 70-lakh budget.
 
 Many organisers have, however, decided to stick to traditional decorations. The B-Block Puja at Chittaranjan Park will showcase the traditional ‘daker saj’ while Dakshin Delhi Kalibari Association, which is celebrating its golden jubilee year, will have a six-day function based on traditional themes.
 
 Most organisers claimed that they had decided to cut their budget on decoration to focus on eco-friendly measures. Almost all Puja committees have decided to get eco-friendly idols, with many even creating an artificial lake for immersion rather than polluting the Yamuna. Many of them will also replace plastic utensils with those made of leaves for distributing prasad and other food items.
 
