PATIALA: Punjab State Power Corporation Limited ( ) shut down its coal-fired power plant in Bathinda on Wednesday, as it was not able to meet the minimum environmental and emission norms. After having generated electricity for 43 years to meet the power demand of Punjab, Bathinda-based Guru Nanak Dev   generated its last unit at 8.39am, after exhausting the available coal block.

 While unit number 3 and 4 of 210 MW each had been out of operation for the past many days, all operations at unit number 1 and 2 of 110 MW each came to a complete halt on Wednesday morning. PSPCL chairman-cum-managing director ( ) A Venu Prasad said the   (CEA) had laid out certain guidelines to phase out all fuel-based thermal plants which were older than 25 years. Also, the plant was not meeting the minimum environmental and emission norms that were to be followed, he added.
 
 The board of directors (BoD) of the PSPCL had cleared the proposal to shut down the Bathinda thermal plant in a meeting held in early July this year. However, the discussions on the issue had been going on for the last one year. The matter was put up before a cabinet sub-committee comprising health minister  , finance minister Manpreet Badal and minister for higher education Charanjit Singh Channi. 
 
 The CMD said the PSPCL was now examining a proposal to set up a 100 MW solar plant in Bathinda. This proposal would be put before the cabinet sub-committee, which would take a final call for utilization of the available infrastructure at the Guru Nanak Dev Thermal Plant that can be put to good use.
 
 Meanwhile, the PSPCL is yet to take a final call with regard to the 1,028 regular and 750 contractual employees posted at Bathinda thermal plant. PSPCL (generation) director M R Parihar said a proposal to shift these employees was under consideration and a decision would be taken after due approval from the cabinet sub-committee. 
 
 The first unit of Bathinda thermal plant was made operational in September 1974 and the second in September 1975. Unit number 3 was commissioned in March 1978 while the fourth unit started generating power in January 1979. As of today, power is now available at a cost ranging from Rs 2.47 to Rs 2.97 per unit in the open market, while the PSPCL was spending Rs 3.57 to Rs 4.43 per unit to produce power at these units, making it an non-viable option for the PSPCL, the sources said. Considering the merit order, these units were generally kept out of operations and would be fired up only in case the daily demand crossed 11,000 MW. 
 
