AHMEDABAD: This  , have a   milk chocolate to sweeten festivities. Gujarat Cooperative Milk Marketing Federation (GCMMF), which markets Amul brand, is all set to launch chocolates made from camel milk. The Amul camel milk chocolates will hit the market before Diwali, confirmed R S  , managing director, GCMMF.

 “It is known as Amul Camel Milk Chocolate and will be made using camel milk. We will procure camel milk from Kutch and the chocolates will be made at Kaira District Co-operative Milk Producers' Union run Amul dairy at Anand,” said Sodhi.
 
 A new manufacturing facility for various types of chocolates has also been planned at Anand. The capacity of the proposed plant will be 1,000 tonnes per month
 
 According to Sodhi, in the first phase, the camel milk chocolate will be made available through some 2 lakh retail outlets across the country. Camel milk will be procured from pastoral breeds of camels mainly Kharai and Kutchi breeds.
 
 Kutch district co-operative milk producers’ union limited, popularly known as Sarhad dairy and a member union of GCMMF, is in the process of setting up a camel milk processing plant in Kutch district, which will soon be operational.
 
 Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) last year approved camel milk as a food item with specific standards for sale and trade.
 
 “In the past two weeks, some 10,000 litres of camel milk have already been procured by Amul. The first cheque of compensation will be handed over to camel breeder’s association of Kutch, this week, on the sidelines of the exhibition on pastoral life, ‘Living Lightly’, which will be inaugurated in Ahmedabad,” said Sushma Iyengar, lead curator, of the exhibition which is organized by Centre for Pastoralism.
 
 According to   (ICAR), research findings about camel milk present convincing evidence about its medicinal value for human health like in the management of diabetes, liver and kidney disorders, and it has functional food value in cases of autism in children, while boosting immunity to resist many infectious diseases.
 
 Bringing camel milk into the mainstream
 
 Two years ago, Sahjeevan approached GCMMF to help market camel milk produced in Kutch. At that time, a project estimated to be worth Rs3 crore was initiated with support of state and central governments. Interestingly, it was on the sidelines of the first edition of ‘Living Lightly’ organized in Delhi in December 2016, when Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) certified camel milk to be safe for human consumption. Soon after, Amul announced plans to market camel milk in 500ml bottles under its brand name.
 
 
