BENGALURU: Shocking video footage of a   street, where two men on a scooter blocked a young girl's path to her home, got off and groped her, should serve as an eye-opener for Karnataka's powers-that-be.
The incident, which happened on New Year's Eve, was captured by a CCTV camera installed at a house near   in east Bengaluru, at 2.40am Sunday. The girl had got off an autorickshaw, and was just 50 metres from her house when she was subjected to the horrifying experience. She squirmed and wriggled out of the clutches of the perverts. The video, sent to The Times of India by a reader, should overturn many assumptions of the authorities, primarily Karnataka home minister  's sweeping assessment: “It happens in crowded places.“ The minister had said this about the molestation of women by a mob on MG Road and Brigade Road, on the night of December 31.The video shows that even streets in residential areas are not safe in Bengaluru.
 
 It should also serve to jettison the other theory: that women who are molested are dressed in western wear. The girl in the video, who appears to be in her early twenties, was not wearing skimpy clothes when she was attacked by the hooligans.
 
 The reader sent the video following claims by the authorities that they do not have any video evidence to establish that women were molested during the New Year celebra tions. The reader, who did not want to be identified, said: “The incident was captured by the CCTV installed in my house. I did not want to remain silent after seeing what happened on our street, so I decided to alert the authorities.“
 
 The reader told TOI, “I came to know about the incident only when the girl came to my house with her friends on Monday , saying that she wanted to view the CCTV footage as she was intercepted and groped by two youths nearby . What I saw in the video left me disturbed. If residential areas too are unsafe for women, where are they supposed to go?“
 
 SHOT BY SHOT
 
 The video footage sent to TOI starts with an autorickshaw stopping on the main road. A girl gets off and runs towards her house, while another is still in the autorickshaw, settling the fare. She hops out and takes a few steps into the bylane when the revellers zoom past her on a scooter, and intercept her.
 
 As the autorickshaw leaves, one of the miscreants gets off the two-wheeler, walks towards her, hugs her and drags her towards his friend. The girl tries to beat him but he overpowers her and pushes her towards the scooter. The helpless girl tries to wriggle out of their grasp, as the youths grope and try to pull off her clothes. But as she puts up stiff resistance, they push her on to the road and ride away .
 
 The girl told the TOI reader: “I don't know the people who attacked and molested me. It was bad. I realized that my wallet was missing after the incident. I guess they robbed me too.“
 
 She said she did not want to approach the police as it would be of no use, given the fact that the government itself had acknowledged that such things happen in the city . “If we go to the police, they expect us to give them evidence. Why create nuisance for ourselves?“ the girl was heard discussing with her friends.
 
 However, the TOI reader said he would cooperate with the police to ensure that such incidents do not happen. When TOI narrated the incident to additional commissioner (East) Hemanth Nimbalkar, the jurisdictional DCP   got in touch with the TOI reader and commenced investigation.
 
 (With inputs from Arun Dev)
 
 PUB LENSWOMAN MOLESTED ON NYE
 
 On New Year's Eve, a 24-year-old photographer with a pub in Indiranagar was groped by a man when she was helping her friend get a cab. A traumatized   said that a man in his twenties molested her, following which she held him by his collar and hit him. Soon, a mob of about 20 people gathered and pulled her back, letting her molester run away. TNN
 
