KOLKATA: Stepping away from her silver screen persona of romancing heroes and flawlessly delivering dialogues, actor   , also a BJP MP , had to use a common washroom, endure the stifling heat and eat prison fare as she spent the night inside the central lock-up at the police headquarters following her arrest on Thursday . 

 She had refused to avail of bail after being rounded up from the BJP's  
 
 Not every day actors spend nights at the central lock-up.It's little surprising that Rupa and Locket's arrival created excitement among the lower ranks of cops. A source in Labazar said seniors had to rebuke some constables for “crowding outside the central lockup where the two Tollywood actors were lodged".
 
 The reality check exposed Rupa, and her   Locket Chatterjee, to the “pathetic condition“ inside the lock-up. After their arrest, all the 134 BJP activists, including Rupa, Locket, state party chief   and national general secretary   were herded inside a space meant to accommodate only 50-odd people. “It was hot and stifling inside,“ said Rupa, a Rajya Sabha member. One of her associates, who was also in the lock-up, said, “Her (Rupa's) health deteriorated during the protest. 
 
 The heat and humidity was severe.She is also on medication.“ At night, all the 24 women rounded up were sent to sleep in one room. “There was one open bathroom. All the women had to use that," Locket added. It was a tiring day for the BJP leaders, but dinner was not given out till late at night, when they were served only two chapattis and soyabean curry each.
 
 Even the rudimentary co mfort, which people usually take for granted, were not available inside the lock-up, something that the celebrities were apparently not quite prepared for. “I didn't even get a pillow.All of us slept on the floor. I started having breathing problems. The water that was served was too salty . They treated us like petty criminals. I had to request multiple times to get my heart medicine," Rupa claimed. Echoing her, an associate also pointed out the water was too salty .
 
  “The single pedestal fan could do little to beat the heat inside. Rupadi, who has been keeping unwell of late, started having problem breathing . She had to sleep on the floor as no cot or bedsheet was provided," she said.
 
 Even as she stepped out of the police van on Friday , after being released on bail, Locket said, “We didn't have the basic amenities we are used to. No mobile phones. Nothing. Yet, we survived.“
 
