Thane: The forest department’s initiative of launching a website to create awareness about activities being held in the forest areas seems to be picking up pace as over 10,000 lake city residents have already enrolled and are following it passionately. 

 This   website went live on January 14 with an attempt to boost the forest conservation and protection of the forest and wildlife. The website in the state also acts as a social platform to involve citizens in various activities.
 
 In addition to enabling citizens to access information and participate in a number of other green initiatives including trekking activities, forest fire fighting, animal census activities and some more this website will also inform them of the works of the forest department, making the system transparent.
 
 Sunil Limaye, Chief Conservator of Forest (  Forest Department), said, “This platform was created to not only make the laymen aware of these initiatives, but also allow them to actively participate in them and we are really glad that Thaneites have supported us.”
 
 While some youngsters have joined the army of ecologically conscious and participative citizens to do their bit for the environment, many others have enrolled here believing that this drive could be the key to a problem-solving transparent platform that connects the officials and the citizens.
 
 “There have been so many environment-related workshops, seminars, debates and excursions that we have had no idea about because of the lack of a mediator between the forest officials and citizens. Now that we are part of this green army, we are not only updated about each event, but also get a certificate for our participation,” said Amy Dias, a member of Green Army.
 
 Meanwhile Pawan Sharma, founder of wildlife NGO RAWW who recently enrolled his NGO in the website, said, “Everything is going digital today. With such initiatives being put in the web domain, it not only becomes accessible to the masses, but also makes the forest department and officials accountable for the work they promise to do. This initiative, in the long run, could turn into an interactive and participative problem solving mechanism.”
 
