It is a course nature has taken by storm. Biomimicry -a term derived from 'bios' meaning life, and 'mimesis' meaning to imitate, is a relatively new science that explores designs and ideas inspired by nature to solve human problems.

 The applications of biomimicry are far and wide. From bullet trains far and wide. From bullet trains inspired by the aerodynamic beak of a kingfisher to using the structure of a bamboo to understand height and stability in construction, or to model a water filtration system based on the kangaroo rat which survives on moisture from seeds ­ biomimicry is everywhere.
 
 “Biomimicry or biomimetics is a concept as old as time but in terms of scientific study is a new field, especially in India where there are no undergraduate or postgraduate courses in the subject. Biomimicry is offered more as an elective course, or sometimes as part of an elective course at some colleges,“ says PhD student at   Roorkee   K who is researching on parametric architecture.
 
 Prashant Dhawan, an architect, who did a masters in biomimicry from Arizona State University, co-founded   -a regional network of `Biomimicry Global network', which has 30 other regional networks from all over the world ­ with the intention to spread awareness about the subject in the country and provide a common platform for people interested in biomimicry to meet and “crosspollinate ideas“.
 
 “It is one of the hottest areas of study at the moment and there is huge scope for it in any field,“ says Prashant, who is in the process of building a twomonth course module on the subject.
 
 Biomimetics has scope in almost every area of study from engineering to product design, business applications, green architecture -the list, like nature, is infinite.
 
 His organisation conducts elective courses as well as short-term credit courses at Srishti Institute of Art, Design and Technology, Bengaluru; and Centre for Environmental Planning and Technology University, Ahmedabad.
 
 Overseas, there are institutes that offer the course. In the US, for instance, Georgia Institute of Technology, Centre for Biologically Inspired Design (CBID), and  's School of Engineering and Applied Sciences have facilities. The University of California at Berkeley has a bioengineering course. In the UK, there is an Institute of Biomedical Engineering at Imperial College London where students can apply .
 
