PATNA: The fog cover and shallow clouds that have made the sun play hide-and-seek for the last few days are probably the last glimpse of the cuddle weather in Bihar as   on Monday ruled out the return of severe winter conditions this year.

 According to the weatherman, the fog cover is expected to clear within a day or two, which would pave the way for winter to be over in Bihar. In weather parlance, winter in the state is said to have passed off when the minimum temperature remains above 13 degree C for over four consecutive days at this time of the year.
 
 “The maximum temperature in Patna was recorded at 27 degree C last week and we expect similar gradual northward movement in the mercury column from Wednesday onwards after fog disappears,” said   director S Sengupta.
 
 Patna and several parts of Bihar witnessed foggy conditions on Monday due to incursion of moisture from a western disturbance that crossed northern and eastern states over the past few days.
 
 “The western disturbance that caused snowfall and rainfall in north India and some eastern states last week, resulted in dense foggy conditions in Bihar this morning. Since the fog was dense, it looked like clouds in the middle level of atmosphere. Normally, such a fog cover that follows a western disturbance gets cleared in three days. We, therefore, expect clear skies from Wednesday onwards,” Sengupta told TOI.
 
 The Met official, however, also expected a slight plunge in maximum or day temperature till Tuesday owing to high level of moisture in the atmosphere. “The maximum temperature is expected to be around 21 degree C on Tuesday whereas the minimum temperature will be around 13 degree C,” he said.
 
 The western disturbance, which led to fog cover in Patna on Monday, had earlier caused rainfall and snowfall in northern states, including J&K,   and Delhi, around January 26. Trace rainfall (less than 0.1mm) was also recorded in Patna and Gaya on January 27.
 
 Western disturbances are low-pressure areas or extra-tropical storms originating from the Mediterranean Sea, Red Sea and Caspian Sea, which cause winter rainfall in northwest Indian subcontinent.
 
 The local Met office said two more western disturbances were in the offing, but they were unlikely to affect the weather in Bihar. One of these western disturbances is quite weak while the other is expected to move in the upper latitude towards China, said a Patna meteorologist.
 
