PUNE: A two-km stretch called Bund Garden Road — from around   to Dorabjee Wines on   — has become the focus of the highway   that came into effect on April 1 this year.

 Consequently, close to 26 establishments falling within 500 metres of highway — from the likes of Residency Club, Poona Club, Ladies Club, Dorabjee Wines to Nawab of Asia, Central Park Hotel and Chinese Room, among others — officially stopped serving liquor from Thursday evening.
 
 An excise department official said that Bund Garden Road is also a state highway, as per Public Works Department (PWD) records. “Though it had been transferred to the civic body for maintenance, it is officially a state highway. We have received a letter in this regard, mentioning the starting and ending points of the road. After taking measurement of the distance of establishments and due discussion with the collector, we decided to enforce the ban here too as it is technically a highway,” he further said.
 
 The 26 establishments are not only clubs and hotels, but also wine shops, beer shops and permit rooms within 500 meters of the Bund Garden Road. A source in the hospitality industry said that Bund Road approximately stretches from the Dorabjee’s Wines to Sohrab Hall. “Discussions on applying the ban on this stretch have been going on for the past 20 days. The authorities finally decided to apply the ban here on March 18,” he said.
 
 Sanjay Singh, manager, Residency Club, said that the ban has not yet affected footfall in the club. “The clubs host a lot of other family activities like sports and dining, among other things. Patrons do not come only for liquor. Members would not be served liquor till the time the state government takes a suitable decision on the denotification of highways. Nothing else has changed,” he said. 
 
 Singh added that though the move is expected to affect the club’s revenue, the club authorities will have to accept it. “We are sure that the government will take some correct measures. But we are sure that something will work out in future,” said Singh.
 
