JALANDHAR: This is the first time in 48 years that no MLA from the nine constituencies in Jalandhar has been made part of the Punjab cabinet. Chief minister Capt   and his cabinet of 9 ministers, including two ministers of state, took the oath of secrecy on Thursday.

 However, none of the nine is an MLA from the district falling in Doaba region of Punjab. After the reorganization of Punjab, the late Manmohan Kalia, former BJP minister Manoranjan Kalia’s father, became a minister in Justice Gurnam Singh’s government in 1969 and then in the then Parkash Singh Badal-led government in 1970. In the Giani Zail Singh-led Congress government in 1972, two MLAs from constituencies in Jalandhar —Master Gurbanta Singh and Balbir Singh —were made part of the state cabinet. While Gurbanta was the agriculture minister, Balbir headed the health ministry.
 
 In the coalition between Janta Party, Jan Sangh and SAD, led by Parkash Singh Badal in 1977,  , who had won from Jalandhar Cantonment as a Janta Party candidate, became a civil supplies minister. In 1980, there was a chief minister, then Nakodar MLA Darbara Singh, from the district.
 
 In the SAD government formed in 1985, Surjit Singh Barnala, Surinderpal Singh Thammanwal and Sarwan Singh Phillaur represented the district in the cabinet, while Surjit Singh Minhas became the speaker in 1986 and remained at the post till 1992.
 
 The late chief minister Beant Singh, who was assassinated in 1995, was elected as an MLA from Jalandhar Cantonment in 1992. Chaudhary  , another MLA from Jalandhar district, was his cabinet colleague. Following Beant Singh’s assassinations, Chaudhary Santoklh Singh and Avtar Henry, again MLAs from the constituencies in the district, got cabinet berths.
 
 In 1997, when Badal became the CM for the third time,  , Ajit Singh Kohar and Sarwan Singh Phillaur were MLAs from the districts who were made part of the state cabinet. Then, in the Congress government from 2002 to 2007, Chaudhary Jagjit Singh, Henry and   were in the state cabinet.
 
 In the Badal government from 2007 to 2012, Kalia, Kohar, Phillaur and Bhagat Chunni Lal became ministers. In 2012, when the SAD-BJP alliance created history by returning to power, except Kalia, all three remained in the cabinet. Besides, three MLAs from the district – K D Bhandari, Pawan Teenu and Avinash Chnader - were made chief parliamentary secretaries.
 
 Congress performed the worst in 2007 and 2012. It had just one MLA Amarjit Singh Samra from district Jalandhar in 2007 and later all nine MLAs were of the SAD-BJP alliance in 2012. This time, Congress has five MLAs from the district – Pargat Singh, Rajinder Beri, Sushil Rinku, Avtar Junior Henry and Chuadhary Surinder Singh – as SAD managed to retain four seats.
 
