MUMBAI: NCP leader  , agriculture minister Pandurang Fundkar and   Lok Sabha member Anandrao Adsul, facing a probe for their alleged involvement in rampant financial irregularities in the  , may go scot-free owing to the failure of the inquiry officer to complete the probe within the stipulated period.

 A high-ranking bureaucrat on Monday told ToI that the cooperation department will have no option but to wind up the probe owing to the inquiry officer's failure to complete the probe."As per provisions of the cooperative societies act, the probe has to be completed within two years from the date of issuance of notice. As a special case, an extension of six months can be granted. If the probe is not completed in 2.5 years, the case will have to be closed," he said.
 
 The department had appointed additional registrar   to conduct an inquiry against the 44 directors of the MSC bank. "No comments," Pahinkar told TOI when it was brought to his notice that the inquiry had not been completed. The National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development had, in March 2011, submitted a report on the state of affairs in the NCP-controlled MSC bank for 2008-2011to the RBI. It was found that there was blatant violation of the Banking Regulation Act, RBI Act and cooperative societies act. Subsequently , all irregularities were brought to the notice of then CM  , who took the decision to dissolve the board of directors and appoint bureaucrats Sudhir Goyal and Sudhir Shrivastava as administrators.As per section 88 ­ power of registrar to assess damages against delinquent promoters -notices were served on all 44 directors to seek their reply on financial irregularities, in June 2014, but the inquiry is still not complete, so it is now beyond the powers of the cooperation department to initiate action against them for recovery of losses.
 
 As per the NABARD report, MSC bank had a net NPA of 7.5% and a negative net worth of Rs144.22 crore on March 31, 2010; the bank's net loss in 2010 was Rs 775.98 crore, with bad loans totalling Rs 500 crore. It was found the bank had given loans for proposals not within its purview. NABARD had asked the bank to reduce the number of directors from 44 to 28, but the directive was never implemented. Following the appointment of an administrator, the MSC bank is now out of the red as it has paid a dividend to the state government.
 
