JAIPUR: Launched by   government, free medicine and free diagnostic tests schemes have flourished in   regime in the state. While addressing the state assembly on Friday, health minister   said, "Fellow assembly members have a misconception that we have launched   to roll back free medicine scheme and free diagnostic tests scheme. But in reality, we have implemented the scheme in effective manner." 

 Saraf said, "The former government had spent Rs 554 crore till November 30, 2013. But in three years, since 2013, we have spent Rs 1,193 crore so far, which is double the amount of previous government's expenditure on free medicine scheme."
 
 He said in previous government's regime, 14.22 crore patients benefitted from the scheme. During the current government's tenure so far, 28.24 crore patients have benefitted, which is double than that during the previous government. 
 
 He further said that in the previous government's regime, 1.66 crore diagnostic tests were conducted, but during the present government's tenure so far 12.37crore have already benefitted. He said that under the scheme, one lakh patients are getting benefits daily. 
 
 The BJP government will continue to promote public-private partnership. Saraf said that the government will hand over 20 urban Primary Health Centres to private players.
 
 Saraf added that a recruitment board will be constituted under principal secretary medical education department. esides, Saraf announced that from now those who complete PG in medical colleges will have to complete one year of senior residency. 
 
 For appointment of assistant professors in medical colleges in super speciality, Saraf announced to increase the age limit from 42 years to 45 years.
 
 Saraf said that in 2017-18, 500 more seats will be added in medical colleges. Deputy speaker Rao Rajendra Singh summoned chief whip   and deputy chief whip (Opposition) Govind Singh Dotasar to reach at 10.30 am as they were allegedly interrupting health minister Kalicharan Saraf while he was addressing the assembly on health issues.
 
