NEW DELHI: When 80-year-old Sheela Rastogi (name changed) answered a call from a bank official about her   being blocked, she had no idea she was being lured into a trap. After the man offered to reactivate the card, the alarmed woman immediately furnished the confidential details that he asked for. Hours later, she discovered her card had been used to make Rs 1.46 lakh worth of transactions.

 Fortunately for her, the cops got on the trail of the fraud and arrested him on April 4, a fortnight after he had contacted Rastogi. The suspect, Aashish Kumar, a resident of   in  , ran a scam in which he and his alleged associates approached unsuspecting account holders posing as bank officials and convinced them to share important details like the pins of their credit or debit card, cvv number of the cards or the one-time passwords generated at the time.
 
 Confirming the arrest of Kumar, Romil Baaniya, DCP (Southeast), added on Wednesday that a special team has been formed to probe deeper into the activities of the gang.
 
 Greater Kailash resident Rastogi received the phone call from Kumar around 6pm on March 21. He posed as a Citibank executive and offered to reactivate her credit card, which he said had been blocked. He asked her for the expiry date of the card and its cvv number. He then asked her to confirm a code sent to her on her mobile phone. Unknown to her, this was the one-time password for a transaction.
 
 When Rastogi woke up the next morning, she found a number of messages from her bank about some transactions. She called the bank to block her card, but found to her shock that 16 transactions worth Rs 1.46 lakh had already been carried out and the money wired to mobile wallets.
 
 On receiving her complaint, police registered an FIR under Section 420 of the Indian Penal Code for fraud. “We got the credit card details and sent notices to the merchants that had received payments on it,” Baaniya said. This helped track down the IP address of the caller and led the police to Kumar. The phone from which he had made the call to Rastogi was confiscated along with a desktop computer.
 
 After obtaining court permission for custody of Kumar, police subjected him to questioning and learnt that the 28-year-old ran a call centre solely designed to cheat unwary people. He employed 4-5 persons, who were trained on various aspects of the banking processes. They phoned people and tried to get them to reveal details of their cards. The cops are analysing Kumar’s bank account to find out how many others his group has defrauded.
 
 
