NEW DELHI: Seeking to ensure transparency in granting clearances to projects in earmarked coastal areas in the country, the environment ministry on Wednesday turned digital by launching a dedicated website for managing the affairs of India's   (CRZ). 

 Terming the move a key component of "ease of doing business" in India, the environment minister   said the web portal would "promote efficiency, transparency and accountability in grant of  ."
 
 The coastal stretches of seas, bays, estuaries, creeks, rivers and backwaters, which are influenced by tidal action (in the landward side) upto 500 metres from the High Tide Line (HTL) and the land between the   (LTL) and the HTL, are demarcated as 'Coastal Regulation Zone' (CRZ) where the government imposes restrictions on setting up and expansion of industries or other projects. Any project can come up in such areas only after getting mandatory clearances from the ministry and local authorities. 
 
 The Portal, launched by Dave, is a web-based system for obtaining clearances required from the ministry under the CRZ by the project proponents. The system is based on web architecture, similar to the existing systems in place for according environmental and forest clearances. It can be accessed through the ministry's website. 
 
 "The system will enable the project proponents and the concerned state/Union territory bodies like the State Coastal Zone Management Authorities (SCZMAs) and Municipal/Town Planning agencies in tracking the status of their proposals," said an official. 
 
 The user-friendly portal enables submission of applications for CRZ clearance in a single-window interface and facilitates quick flow of information related to CRZ clearances. It allocates a unique identity for each proposal for all future references. It is accessible from any computer with internet facility.
 
 "The objectives of the web portal include enhancing efficiency, transparency and accountability in the process of CRZ clearances; enhance responsiveness through workflows and availability of real-time information on the status of CRZ clearance proposals; ease of business and convenience of citizens in accessing information and services; standardised procedures and processes across Central and State levels," said the ministry in a statement. 
 
 It said, "There are other initiatives underway, like the notification of High Tide Line/ Low Tide Line (HTL/LTL), ecologically sensitive areas falling under CRZ and hazard line. All these steps are aimed at minimising discretion and enhancing accountability at all levels."
 
