We have come a long way from conservative marital norms, into fluid relationships that have their foundations in equality, mutual respect and trust. Yet, the young, vibrant and liberal Pune is in the vice grip of suspicion, going by the 
  being sought at the   (PRFSL) on Aundh Road.

 According to their  , there were only 37 paternity test cases with the laboratory in 2014. But, in a mere couple of years, the tests have increased almost tenfold, with a total of 321   being carried out in 2016. Krishnakant Kulkarni, director of the state forensic laboratory, told Pune Mirror, “The Pune laboratory began its DNA testing facility from 2014. Since then, we have been flooded with cases where couples are seeking a paternity test. Earlier, these cases would go to Mumbai. So, we didn’t quite realise the volume of paternity test cases coming from Pune.”
 
 Earlier, the PRFSL only had the facilities of fingerprinting tests, cyber forensic tests, tape authentication, speaker identification and forensic clinical toxicology while, for DNA tests, people had to go to the Maharashtra forensic science laboratory, headquartered in Mumbai. But, since the head office was overburdened with DNA tests, the state introduced the   facility at the Pune regional laboratory in 2014. And these last three years have seen a steady surge of DNA tests to ascertain paternity.
 
 The officials at PRFSL said that the DNA testing branch of the laboratory is already swamped with cases for DNA testing of bodies, mostly for identification in murder cases or carrying out tests to provide scientific evidences in criminal cases. However, apart from that, paternity tests also form a major chunk of the DNA testing profile.
 
 During its first year, in 2014, the laboratory officials claimed to have conducted 37 paternity tests. In 2015, the number increased drastically to 197, and 2016 saw a further leap to 321 paternity tests. According to the officials, most of the couples who have approached the laboratory come from fairly able economic backgrounds. “The couple has to spend money in thousands to carry out the paternity test. We have observed that those who have been approaching us are from upper middle class families. In such cases, the DNA of mother matches with the child’s. But, it is the husband who has doubts whether he is the biological father of the child, which is why they go for the paternity test. Apart from that, we have also had cases where the couple has undergone a paternity test owing to some property dispute in the family, where the child was also entitled to get some share in the property,” shared one of the laboratory officials.
 
 Curiously, most of these cases were not routed through the family court, but were tests conducted on the onus of the individuals themselves, the officials told Mirror. They refrained from disclosing the positive-negative ratio owing to the sensitive nature of the test and confidentiality clauses. But the statistics do confirm one thing — city residents are increasingly mistrusting their relationships.
 
 ¦ The couple has to spend money in thousands to carry out the paternity test. Those who have been approaching us are from upper middle class families
 
 — A lab official
 
 ¦ Earlier, these cases would go to Mumbai. So, we didn’t quite realise the volume of paternity test cases coming from Pune
 
 — Krishnakant Kulkarni, director, state forensic laboratory
 
 
