CHENNAI:   returned to the Indian side after three years and tried to make the most of opportunities that came his way. After warming the benches for the entire Champions Trophy, the wicket-keeper batsman got a chance to prove himself against the West Indies in the limited-overs series after   aggravated a knee injury. While he struggled in the first match scoring 2, the 32-year-old gave a good account of himself in the next match. He was involved in a match-winning unbeaten partnership of 122 with captain  , where he remained 50 not out, and then went on to score 48 in the only T20. In a chat with 
 on Wednesday, Karthik spoke about playing as a specialist batsman, Kohli's influence on his batting and more. 

 
 
 
 
 
 I was aware that MS   is the first-choice wicket-keeper. So I went in as a proper batsman. But it was a big challenge for me as I waited for my chance. When you are playing matches, you are in the zone and you know where to hit the ball, how to work on the angles. I played in the second practice match before the Champions Trophy and then waited for my chance for the next 50 days. With different conditions, tall bowlers and two-paced wickets in Windies, I struggled. But in the next match, I was batting with Kohli and he gave me confidence. I am fine with playing as a batsman and I have always enjoyed fielding. While setting fields, I don't think Kohli is concerned about my fielding positions. I am not a liability on the field. I want to play all three formats as pure batsman and I am looking for another opportunity in Tests.
 
 
 
 Kohli is a great partner to bat with. He is a great runner between the wickets and pushes you for twos. He has got great ideas in the middle. While playing with him, he identified a couple of areas for me to hit the ball and then I executed it. So I think I have earned his confidence. He is a positive and vibrant person to be around. When it comes to fitness, the one thing I have realised is I don't want any youngster to tell that I am fitter than Dinesh. I always try and be the fittest player in the team.
 
 
 
 We didn't exchange notes but he spoke about his experience over these years. He is honest about what he has done with his batting and shared with me a few tips. Even four years back, during the  , he told me how he prepares before every match and how he visualizes every situation. I inculcated them in my batting.
 
 
 
 Over the years, I have learnt that it's not about what I can do individually. It's about how I am contributing to the team's cause. I have started looking at that way and, in turn, it's helping me as a batsman. But then, stroke-making is my biggest strength and if I stop that - I can't express myself freely. Now, I am able to play my shots with more responsibility. I want to try and make it to the 2019 World Cup squad and want to play Test cricket under Kohli. But, I don't want to add more pressure on me thinking about Test return. With the kind of shots I have I think I can make an impact.
 
 
 
 Those shots are a result of adrenaline rush. When you can predict the delivery and want to upset the rhythm of a bowler, then you attempt those shots. I don't practice those shots at nets because it is very scary. Those shots come to me naturally but I do follow how AB de Villiers uses the crease while playing those shots.
 
 
