CHANDIGARH: Despite tall claims of implementing Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision of ‘Digital India’ and ‘Good Governance’, the BJP-ruled   is one of those four states which have not provided data to the union ministry of home affairs (MHA) about registration of birth and deaths. The state government has blamed it on “lack of computerization and governance issues.” The registration of birth and death is compulsory under Registration of Births and Deaths Act, 1969 and surprisingly Haryana too framed the Haryana Registration of Births and Deaths Rules, 2002. 

 In its annual report for 2016-17, the MHA has mentioned that Haryana, Bihar, Jharkhand and Goa have not provided the data. The report also mentions that Uttar Pradesh has shared a part of the data as a result of which it has not been taken into account. 
 
 However, Haryana’s capital and union territory Chandigarh and neighbouring state Punjab have registered more than 90 percent cases of births and deaths within the prescribed time limit of 21 days. Other states and union territories falling in this category include Delhi, Mizoram, Sikkim, Odisha, Puducherry and Lakshadweep.
 
 The MHA report also states that the percentage of registration of deaths is lower than that of births in most states and union territories except Goa, Karnataka, Sikkim, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Daman and Diu and Lakshadweep. “Lower level of death registration may partly be attributed to non-reporting of domiciliary deaths and deaths of females and infants,” mentions the report. As per the report, the proportion of registered births and deaths has witnessed a steady increase over the years. The registration level of births for the country has gone up to 88.8 %. However, registration level of deaths has reached up to 74.3 %. 
 
 The state government’s excuse has also raised serious questions on its much-publicized chief minister's good governance associates (CMGGAs) programme launched last year. The   government had claimed that it had selected “21 high-caliber individuals” from top institutes in the country and posted them with a deputy commissioner to bring “transformational changes” to ensure accomplishment of government flagship programmes and for executing directives from the chief minister’s office.
 
