KOLHAPUR:   and  's relatives on Saturday said police should ensure immediate arrest of the absconding suspects for some progress in the murder cases.

 The   had on Friday frowned upon the   (CBI) after the agency said it would not pursue taking a ballistic opinion from Scotland Yard to establish a link in the killings of activists Dabholkar,  
 
 Dabholkar was shot dead on August 20, 2013 near Omkareshwar temple in Pune while he was on his morning stroll. Pansare was shot at on February 16, 2015 near his residence in Kolhapur while he was returning home after a morning walk with his wife.He succumbed to his injuries on February 20. Kalburgi was killed on August 30, 2015 by some unidentified assailants. All the three persons were killed in a similar fashion and the investigating agencies have been trying to find out the link in the three killings.
 
 Dabholkar and Pansare's families now want immediate arrest of suspect accused Sarang Akolkar and Vinay Pawar, who are missing on police records.
 
 “The CBI has said in the court that it does not need ballistic opinion from Scotland Yard. Our main demand now is that police should intensify their se arch operations and arrest the two per sons booked in both the Dabholkar and Pansare murder cases. Both are ab sconding and the investigating agenci es claim that they are trying to find out their whereabouts,“ Dabholkar's son, Hameed, said.
 
 On the other hand, Megha Pansare, daughter-in-law of Govind Pansare, sa id, “Till now, there has not been any re markable progress in the investiga tion. We think that if the police can ar rest the two suspects who are currently absconding, it will speed up the probe. Police can then get some more clues. We hope the court asks police to speed up the probe.“ The Kolhapur police, while filing the supplementary chargesheet in the Pansare murder case, had made Vinay Pawar the third accused. Police have al ready arrested Sameer Gaikwad and Virendra Tawade in the case.
 
 Both Pawar and Akolkar are mis sing since the blast at a trade centre in Madgaon, Goa on October 16, 2009. Tho ugh he was not booked in the case, he is missing since then.
 
 Police in Kolhapur suspect that Pa war, along with Akolkar, had met one of the witnesses to get training to prepare the weapons on the direction of Virendra Tawde, the second accused in the Pansare murder case.
 
