BENGALURU: 43-year-old BJP worker and RSS activist was brutally hacked to death near Bomma sandra, south east Bengaluru, early Tuesday morning.

 This is the seventh person from the   to be allegedly murdered in Karnataka and the opposition BJP went on the warpath, blaming the murders on the Congress government's ineptness.
 
  alias  , resident of Kittaganahalli and member of the Bommanahalli town municipal council, left home in his Toyota Innova around 5am after receiving a call. He was attacked later by five armed men near BTL College on Hosur Road.
 
 The assailants wielded daggers, machetes, knives and other sharp objects. They hacked away at Prasad, whose cries for help drew personnel manning the nearby Chandapura toll booth. The attackers fled when the toll booth staffers came runnning. Vasu died instantly.
 
 Police sources said the attack was so brutal that a dagger stuck in Prasad's chest had to be cut away using a hacksaw blade during the post-mortem.His body bore at least 15 injuries and his lungs were ripped apart, sources said. Prasad is survived by his parents, wife, a 11-year old daughter and 6-yearold son. His election as town municipal council president had been stayed by the court after his opponents raised a dispute over reservation for the post.
 
 While police suspect personal rivalry behind the killing, his family , friends and party workers termed it a communal killing.
 
 “We have formed special teams to nab the miscreants and are confident of cracking the case soon,“ said Seemanth Kumar Singh, IG-Central range.
 
 Prasad's body was shifted to   for the autopsy and a large police contingent was deployed.The body was handed over to family members in the afternoon.
 
 Tension prevailed in and around Bommasandra, Hosur Road and Anekal Main Road through the day as thousands of BJP workers blocked Hosur Road and shouted slogans against the Congress government.
 
 More than 100 police personnel and two platoons of the Karnataka State Reserve Police were deployed at Bommasandra and Kittaganahalli.Traffic flow between Chandapura Gate and Bommasandra was affected and police had a tough time convincing agitators to clear the road.
 
 Shylaja, Prasad's wife told the media: “My husband's rivals were unhappy with his political growth and increasing popularity in the area. Today morning, he got a call around 5am and hurriedly left the house in his vehicle, driving alone. Around 7am, I got a phone call from police saying that some unidenti fied persons have killed him.It's a planned murder. My daughter and son are asking me again and again where their father is. What should I tell them?“ By late evening, police de tained 12 men, including a local financier, a realtor and activists from different parties, in connection with the killing. Prasad is the second BJP leader to be murdered in Bengaluru in the past six months.
 
