 might have entered the industry in 2003, but the actor has consciously done only around 15 films. Though he had a relatively easy launch, all thanks to his father Sathyaraj, Sibi says that he took his own time to figure out what works for him. And now, he says, he’s at a stage where he can confidently experiment with subjects. One of those subjects is  , a remake of the Telugu film Kshanam. So, what really prompted him to do this remake? 

 “There is a misconception among people in the industry that remakes are an easy route to success. But honestly, you have to be really careful about choosing the right subject. You also have to look into the process of doing a remake because if you are going to make drastic changes to the original, it wouldn’t work. I saw Kshanam accidently during the time I was shooting for Kattappava Kanom. My wife and I really liked the film. I asked my mother and sister to watch it, as they like thrillers. My sister loved it so much that she pushed me to do this remake. Initially, I was sceptical if this subject would work at the box office. But she suggested that I do it in Tamil as many might have not seen it. I, too, felt I can get into the skin on the character, which eventually led me to buy the rights,” says Sibi. 
 
 After he got the rights, the hunt for choosing the right director began for the actor. “I had made an announcement in the media about remaking the film.  , who is a good friend of mine, called me after he read this news. He asked if we had finalised any director for the project and suggested Pradeep Krishnamoorthy’s name (Pradeep was doing Saithan with   at that time). I got in touch with the director over phone and met him. In our first meeting, he didn’t talk anything about the film and kept the conversation off-topic. I was initially confused, but then we went ahead and roped him for the film. Later, when I asked him about this odd chat of ours, he told me that he did that to study my natural body language. I was like, ‘over ah pandrara illa nijama va’. He also used to go for multiple takes while shooting. 
 
 I used to tell him that I can’t do more than this. But once I saw the final film, I understood that he had done a phenomenal job with my acting and was very happy to have got him onboard.” 
 
 Sibi also has  , which he is presently shooting for. “We recently began shooting for this action-thriller. I play a game designer. We shot some portions in Kashmir, right before the situation there became tense. We were lucky that we didn’t get caught in any issue,” he says.
 
 Though his launch was pretty easy, Sibi says he didn’t really have a smooth journey. Ask him if he regretted taking up films, especially since he was a topper in studies, and he explains, “I was indeed good in studies. But I began following my father’s path when I was young. I used to watch films on the first day of their release and dial up the theatres to know how my father’s films were doing. There was always this interest, which led me to do my first film, Student No 1. I thought that film would have been a good launch pad. But it was only after I did my first few films, I realised that I needed some more training in areas like dance and stunts. I enrolled in acting classes after joining the industry. Also, the films that I did initially were with my father. I was just doing the duet and fight portions, and he had the meatier role. At one stage, I realised I shouldn’t have started so early in my career. And that’s one of the reasons why I took a break after Lee, for four years. I did a three-month acting course in the US and honed my skills. I needed a comeback film, and Naaigal Jaakirathai was just that. It worked well at the box office. In fact, that was my first commercial success. It gave me the confidence to experiment with scripts. I am sure Sathya will be a game-changer for me,” says Sibi.
 
 Did he feel any pressure since he comes from a filmy family? “Expectations will always be there. I cannot catch up to my father since he’s in a different stage right now. I should choose scripts that I feel would work. The kind of content we see now is different. What worked five years ago will not do well now. People expect more realistic subjects… strong emotional content narrated in a sensible manner. I look for stories that would suit me best,” he elaborates. 
 
 The actor also states that, over time, he has learnt to handle failures. He says, “Well, I take failure positively. I still have age on my side, right? I wouldn’t get bogged down by failures. I have done a few films with Appa and those worked. If people recognise my face now, it is because of my dad. I never regretted choosing those films, but I regret the time I came into the film industry.”
 
 He says that he is very choosy about his projects. “I don’t want to take names, but there have been so many actors who have vanished today because they concentrated on the numbers. I don’t want to do that. Even though Naaigal Jaakirathai did well, I took a year to do Jackson Durai. And I generally do one or two films at a time. It’s tough at times because you tend to lose some good films, too,” he explains. Although some of his peers, who had started around the same time he entered films, have gone on to become bigger stars, Sibi feels that comparing him with someone is not going to help him in any way. “I don’t like to compare myself with other actors. Their journey is different and I have nothing to comment about it. I like to it take slowly,” he signs off. 
 
 
