NEW DELHI: The   (CIC) has directed the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) to permit examination of textiles minister  's Class X and Class XII records, overruling the argument that this was personal information. 

  The order was passed by information commissioner Sridhar Acharyulu, who was recently in the news for passing a similar order with regard to Prime Minister  's degree through correspondence from Delhi University. Acharyulu was divested of the human resource development charge after he passed the order relating to Modi. 
 
  The demand to scrutinise Modi's degree was raised by opposition parties AAP and Congress. 
 
  "The CPIO has not put forward any material or justification to say that such disclosure of academic qualification related information shall cause unwarranted invasion of privacy of Smriti Irani in this case," he said. 
 
 “Result or contents of certificate, division acquired, year and number along with father's name cannot be treated as personal or third party information,” he added.
 
 Irani was in a controversy following claims on her college degree in a previous election affidavit. A court last year said a case filed against her was with the intent to harass her.
 
 Irani’s office and Holy Child Auxilium School, Delhi, from where she did her schooling, have been directed by the CIC to provide the roll number or reference number to CBSE, Ajmer, which possesses the records for the years 1991 and 1993 “to facilitate search from huge records which is yet to be digitised”.
 
 The CBSE has been asked to facilitate inspection of relevant records and provide certified copies of documents, except personal details in admit card and marksheet, within 60 days from the date of receipt of this order, Acharyulu said.
 
 He said when a public representative declares his/her educational qualifications, the voter has a right to check the declaration. “Smriti Zubin Irani being an MP and holding the constitutional office of Union minister, is a public authority under RTI Act. 
 
 Under the RPA, 1951, she must have fulfilled her statutory responsibility to submit an affidavit declaring educational status. The information to be furnished under a statute cannot be claimed to be given in fiduciary capacity,” the information commissioner said.
 
 
 
 
