MUMBAI: Sixteen years after a doctor, who was visiting from Canada, was found murdered in a   flat, a sessions court has cleared a family member of all charges after it found he was not even in the city at the time of the murder.

 Granting relief to Narendra Goel, 66, the son-in-law of the victim's brother, the court took into account a travel certificate issued by an airline Goel used to travel to Delhi and the roznama of the Tees Hazari court, where Goel had appeared on August 23, 2003, for a hearing.
 
 The case was registered at Malabar Hill police station on August 23, 2003, by  , brother of the victim, obstetrician Asha Goel, 60. He had told the cops that Asha arrived in the city the day before and retired to the guest room of his house at 10 pm.He discovered her lying on the floor in a pool of blood the following morning. She was declared dead.
 
 Parab, the night manager of a Bhuleshwar lodge run by Sureshchandra, was the first to be arrested after the killing, and based on his information, three others -Pawankumar Goenka, Manohar Shinde and Narendra Goel -were arrested over time. Pointing out that   had mentioned Goel in 2005 -two years after the murder, the court, in a detailed 30-page order, said: “Since there is no incriminating material against this applicant (Goel), charges cannot be framed merely because the prosecution has converted the main perpetrator of crime to the star witness of the prosecution and that too after a long period of the incident and after filing of the chargesheet.“
 
 It emerged that Goel had come to India to sort out a proper ty dispute between her brothers,   and Sureshchandra. Asha wanted to ensure that her third brother,  , got his dues. Sureshchandra and Canada-based Subhash were accused of plotting the murder with the other accused. Sureshchandra, Goel's father-in-law, died in 2004, and Subhash is shown as absconding.
 
 The court said it was only after reading about a Rs 10-lakh reward for information on the culprit that Parab made a confessional statement. He named Goel as being present in the conspiracy meeting.
 
 Referring to the 109 witnesses, the court said none of them had attributed any role to Goel.The report of Goel's narco test was not filed by the prosecution. “There was no motive attributed to this applicant. Only because he is a son-in-law of deceased suspect (Sureshchandra), no presumption arises that he would have participated in the conspiracy,“ the court said.
 
