SRINAGAR: In the autumn of his life, Prof.  , the veteran separatist ideologue may have fallen off the Hurriyat grid that hogs the limelight but he, more than anyone else, talks with the breeze of spring and the passion of summer about why an imaginative compromise between India and Pakistan is the only solution to the Kashmir conflict.
 
 As the April sun warms the balcony of his decrepit house and run-down furniture, the 82-year-old Professor who once taught Persian and remains the original voice of the pro-Pakistan sentiment in Kashmir, speaks with agility: “There is no alternative to bilateral dialogue. Talks must happen between the two sovereigns. They need to go beyond the beaten tracks and yesterday’s intransigence because the situation here is grave.”
  
 Chairman of Muslim Conference and former head of Hurriyat Conference, Prof. Bhat says the current clamor on the streets of the valley remains the consequence of the same 70-year-old story—the unfinished Partition of India.
  
 Stone-pelters and student protests, he says, are a product of the dispute. “Till yesterday, it was in mosques, today it is in educational institutions, and tomorrow it will be in offices. It has already gone to the hearts and souls. It is palpable everywhere. You can’t separate the dispute from the people,” warns Prof. Bhat who sports stubble and keeps his hair short. 
  
 Independence for Kashmir, he says, is not realistic in a region where America and China are engaged in a hegemonic war. “Also, there are sensitivities in Pakistan and India that need to be taken into account. There are different regional aspirations within Jammu and Kashmir which are different and they need to be factored in too,” he says underlining the need for openness, imagination and realism.
  
 Bhat’s eyes pop out and his index finger slashes the air sprightly the moment you question him on Pakistan’s transgressions in Kashmir and remind him of his own public disclosures about how Pakistan got some of the top Kashmiri separatist leaders favorable to talks (Mirwaiz Farooq, Abdul Gani Lone, Maulana Showkat and his own brother), killed.
  
 In 2011 at a seminar in Srinagar, Bhat had shocked everyone when he said, "the time has come" to speak the truth that "our own people killed them." He was widely criticized by other separatist leaders for the revelation.
  
 “Yes, I came out clean on that. But come to think of it, Pakistan did not kill them; the cruel situation of Kashmir did. There may be occasional fault lines in Pakistan but Pakistan is not our suppressor. It is India that has been diabolical in Kashmir. Whatever has been happening is a reaction to India’s excesses here,” he says defensively.
  
 Not part of the separatist club that issues frequent protest calendars and engages in social media propaganda against India, Bhat however, has his daily visitors and admirers, if only for his erudition and candor in Kashmir. The UN resolutions on Kashmir and plebiscite which Hurriyat leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani harps on, for example, he says are irrelevant now. A huge admirer of Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee and President Pervez Musharraf, Bhat endorsed Musharraf’s four-point plan, which was almost finalized by the two countries at one stage.
  
 Following massive violence last year and his interaction with the New Delhi civil society delegation led by Yashwant Sinha, the Professor had told the local press sarcastically that Mirwaiz Umar, Syed Ali Shah Geelani and Yasin Malik were “mullahs” (clerics) who would lead people to the mosque. When asked about himself, he had said that he was someone who would lead people “where they don’t choose to visit at all.”
  
 Commonly known as the intellectual powerhouse of the separatist movement that has its origins in the pre-independence competing politics of the Muslim League and the Congress party, Bhat has come a long way from where he began. Born in 1935 in Botengo village of Sopore in north Kashmir, Bhat got degrees in Persian and law from Aligarh Muslim University. He was a professor before he was found guilty of arson in 1986 and dismissed. The professor became one of the founders of Muslim United Front (MUF) that participated in the 1987 elections, infamous for rigging and the subsequent violent insurgency.
  
 70 years after the line that drew two nations in the subcontinent, “I am yet to decide whether I am an Indian or Pakistani,” says Bhat who spent all his life fighting India ideologically. “If I die today, I would die as a man who did not know whether he was an Indian or Pakistani,” he says desolately.
 
