BENGALURU: In what is being touted as one of the biggest immunization drives undertaken by the Karnataka government, the health and family welfare department is aiming to administer the measles-rubella vaccine (MR-VAC) to 1.65 crore children aged between nine months and fifteen years. Caused by a virus of the same name, rubella is also called German  .

 The three-week drive, which was formally launched on Sunday, is being funded by the central government. The drive itself will start on Tuesday. MR-VAC will be administered in measured doses to children in anganwadi centres, besides private and government schools across the state.
 
 An official in the health and family welfare department said that the new vaccine would help prevent a number of birth defects. “If women contract rubella infection in the early stages of pregnancy, it can lead to blindness, deafness and other defects in infants. This is called congenital rubella syndrome (CRS),” he added.
 
 State health minister   said that Karnataka had been selected in the first phase of the MR-VAC programme, along with Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Goa and Lakshadweep. “It reflects the confidence that the Centre has in our healthcare system,” he added.
 
 He said that the drive was an important part of the national project to eradicate measles and CRS by 2020.
 
 While measles is a contagious respiratory disorder that causes rashes and fever, which could even be fatal in the case of children with a weak immune system, rubella is not such a serious disease. Although its symptoms are similar to those of measles, it cannot lead to death. However, it could lead to grave problems among infants if women contract rubella in the early stages of pregnancy; the vaccine is being administered to all children as part of the project to eradicate CRS. 
 
 Welcoming the campaign launched by the state government, head of department of paediatric infectious diseases at Manipal Hospital, Dr Bhaskar Shenoy said, “It’s a step towards eradicating two dreaded diseased from our country.”
 
 Under the existing immunization programme, children are administered two doses of the measles vaccine – once when they are aged between nine and twelve months, and a second time when they are 16-24 months old. The MR-VAC will replace these two doses.
 
 “For children who have been vaccinated earlier, the third dose will act as a booster dose. And for those who have either been vaccinated just once or have missed their second dose, the MR-VAC vaccine will suffice,” said Omprakash R Patil, joint project director in the health and family welfare department.
 
 Schools asked to ensure attendance of children for drive
 
 Between February 7 and 28, the state government aims to administer the MR-VAC vaccine to 95% of the targeted 1.65 crore children. Schools have been directed to write to parents to ensure attendance of their wards on the specific days.
 
 Auxillary nurse midwives (ANMs) across the state have been trained to administer the MR-VAC vaccine. There are more than 18,717 ANMs and staff nurses in Karnataka. A government official said that each ANM or nurse would be asked to administer the vaccine to 41 children daily. 
 
 The Centre is bearing the entire cost of procuring the vaccine from the Pune-based Serum Institute of India. The state government, on the other hand, is handling the cost of publicty and awareness campaigns.
 
 Public sector ‘drives’ immunization in India
 
 *A global survey conducted in 2008 estimated that more than 80,000 children die of measles in India annually
 
 *According to the World Health Organisation (WHO), 83 cases of CRS and more than 4,000 cases of rubella were reported in the first eight months of 2014
 
 *A WHO report said that 93% of the children in the country need to be immunized to prevent measles and rubella in India
 
 *A survey conducted by the Centre in 2009 showed that private hospitals accounted for just 8.7% of the vaccinations administered to children, while universalised immunization programmes carried out by the public sector covered 89.7%
 
 
