NEW DELHI:   chief minister   said on Thursday that his government will take legal opinion, if needed, on the issue of pursuing case against   officials in the alleged irregularities in the land acquisition case. 

  "We have zero tolerance policy against corruption. No one will be spared for any such act. NHAI officials have put their case of how they have no role in fixing the compensation to land owners. These are decided by the state officials known as CALA. They only provide fund," the CM said.
 
  Responding at a specific question whether his government will exclude NHAI officials from facing investigation,   said, "In case there is a need, we will seek legal opinion including of the attorney general's." 
 
  Just a day before the assembly election results were declared, an FIR was lodged against half a dozen officials from state and a few NHAI officials in   alleging their role in artificially hiking the compensation for land acquisition for four stretches of NH-74. Subsequently, the BJP government had referred the case to CBI for investigation. 
 
  NHAI had raised the issue with highway ministry pointing out how its officials were wrongly dragged in this case. Taking up their case highways minister   wrote to Singh mentioning how such a case would hit the morale of officials, who had no role in the alleged irregularities, and would impact highway projects in the state. 
 
  Sources said NHAI had flagged the possibility of state government officials changing the land use in back dates to disburse higher compensation. 
 
  "In last August NHAI had received complaints of such irregularities and next month the compliant was referred to state for investigation. In 50 cases, NHAI had sought state to investigate. But government responded there was no such case of irregularities. NHAI had also referred 74 cases for arbitration," a highway ministry official said.t
 
  NHAI officials said they kept depositing the compensation in the account under protest. 
 
  The four projects awarded last year have made no progress for lack of land.
 
