Gurgaon: A couple was   while five others, including three children, were injured when the car they were travelling in turned turtle after a crash on NH-8 near Manesar, around 22km from the city, in the small hours of Monday. The children, one of them a 2-month-old, as well as the other couple, are still in hospital, but their condition is stable.

 The   happened around 12.40am, when the two families, all relatives hailing from Uttar Pradesh, were on their way to Baba Mohan Ram temple in Milakpur, Rajasthan, in a Tata Indigo.
 
 Praveen Kumar (28) and his wife Babita (26) died on the spot while his brother-in-law Jai Bhagwan (32) and his wife Parimita (27) sustained serious injuries. Praveen’s daughters Lavi (6) and Tanya (3) and Bhagwan’s baby girl Disha were also in the car, and received injuries. 
 
 Babita and Parimita were sisters. While Praveen and his family used to live at Govindpur Shakarpur village in Meerut, Bhagwan hails from Khaiyaa village in Hapur district, both in UP.
 
 Preliminary investigation suggests that a vehicle, in its attempt to overtake, rammed the Indigo from right side just opposite Fauji Dhaba on NH-8. In the impact, Praveen, who was behind the wheel, lost control and the car overturned, leaving everyone trapped inside. Later, a police patrol team rescued the two families and took them to Rockland Hospital in Manesar, where doctors declared Praveen and Babita dead. 
 
 “They had set out for Baba Mohan Ram temple on Sunday night in Praveen’s car. Next morning, we received a call from the police and learnt about the accident,” said Jai Kishore, brother of Jai Bhagwan, who arrived in Manesar from Khaiyaa village on Monday morning. Investigating officer ASI Satya Prakash said the erring driver managed to flee with the vehicle. Bhagwan and Parimita are still not fit to record their statements, but an FIR has been filed under sections 279 and 304A of IPC. 
 
 “We have handed over the bodies of the couple to family members after post-mortem. We will start a manhunt for the erring driver once Bhagwan and his wife recover and give us their statements,” said Prakash. 
 
 
