JAIPUR: A day before Navratri, the   (JDA) has demolished 125 shops and commercial establishments to widen road between Gopalpura and Gujjar Ki Thadi up to160 feet as per Master Plan-2025. 

 After deploying huge machinery on Tuesday night, JDA team at 8 am on Wednesday swung into action to remove encroachments from both sides of the road that were hampering city’s first 12-lane project. 
 
 The authority’s one of the biggest demolition drive inside the city went peacefully due to huge deployment of police, however, family members and shopkeepers were witnessed sobbing after their shops were turned into debris by bulldozers. 
 
 Many also raised slogans against the state government for destroying their livelihood and employment. Residents termed BJP government’s action ‘inhuman’ and criticized for adopting ‘dictatorial approach’.
 
 Jagish Sharma, one of the protesters said, “Majority of shops demolished are more than 25 years old. As per the rule, no person can be displaced without compensation or rehabilitation, if they have possession for more than ten years. We have left with nothing after working hard for so many years.” 
 
 The Ruling BJP may also lose support of shopkeepers in next state assembly for carrying biggest anti-encroachment drive in the city. Residents demanded that width of the road should have been decreased in public interest as it has affected the employment of several residents. They also pointed, employment of 6,000 people was snatched before biggest Hindu festival of Navratri, Dussehra and Diwali. 
 
 “One shop was providing employment for minimum three to six families directly or indirectly. Rather than generating employments, the state government is destroying the existing employments for developing infrastructure, which was not even required. For vote-bank, the government is rehabilitating people who are encroaching land and developing slums. People who are working hard and contributing for economy are provided with nothing,” added Kamal Sharma, another protester.
 
 JDA officials who were under pressure to complete 9-km road widening project as chief minister   laid the foundation stone, reasoned, “The drive was carried out following the high court directions. These shopkeepers have encroached land and constructed shops which was surrendered for the road,” said a senior JDA official. 
 
 Congress spokesperson Archana Sharma said, “The demolition drive carried out by the JDA is contempt of court. The court directed JDA to cause minimum damage while widening the road. However, JDA has gone against the court orders and damaged even many houses along with shops. The development authority officials turns a blind eye at the time of construction. Moreover, they do not give approval that leads to illegal construction.” 
 
 The JDA will be continued the drive this week at it has to raze nearly 477 structures falling on the route. On Wednesday, machinery was deployed to remove debris soon after the shops were demolished. 
 
 
 
 
 Traffic was thrown out of gear after JDA diverted the traffic and closed the road from both the end . Long traffic jams was witnessed on Tonk Road as many commuters stopped and parked their vehicles at Gopalpura flyover to see demolition drive. The closing of arterial road also affected the traffic at Gujjar Ki Thadi , Madhyaam Marg and New Sanganear road. Residents living in colonies situated near Gopalpura also faced inconvenience as they were not allowed to come out on the main road. Residents who were out were also not allowed to go to their houses. 
 
 
