PUNE: In a relief for Puneites, most   here on Wednesday said theywould continue to render healthcare services despite a call for complete shut down by the state chapter of the Indian Medical Association ( ).

 The state IMA, which has about 36,000 doctors as its members, called for a complete and indefinite shutdown of healthcare service on Wednesday to support resident doctors who have been on mass leave since Monday to protest against rising assaults on their peers across the state.
 
 “Barring emergency services, all medical services will remain suspended in private hospitals till the state government makes adequate arrangement for the security of resident doctors and ensures effective enforcement of the Maharashtra Medicare Service Persons and Medicare Service Institutions (Prevention of Violence and Damage of Property) Act, 2010, among other things,” Ashok Tambe, president of the state chapter of IMA, said.
 
 Ophthalmologist Sanjay Patil, treasurer of the IMA, city branch, said, “We have already communicated our decision to our members. Only admitted patients will get the desired medical services at private hospitals. Although emergency care services will remain unaffected.”
 
 When contacted, most private hospitals in the city said they would extend support to the cause of the resident doctors by wearing   at work and putting up placards condemning the assaults on doctors. “However, we will continue to render medical services,” they said.
 
 “Our hospital is on the government land and hence we cannot observe complete shutdown of medical services. We stand in support of the resident doctors and will register our protest by wearing black badges at work,” cancer surgeon Dhananjay Kelkar, medical director of the Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital, said.
 
 Sharing his view, Bomi Bhote, chief executive officer (CEO) of Ruby Hall Clinic and president of  , said, “We held a meeting of office-bearers of the hospital association and none of us was willing to observe a shut down. That does not mean that we are not in support of the resident doctors and their cause. We understand their concerns, but don’t think suspending medical services would help.”
 
 The Pune Hospital Association has 65 private hospitals as its members.
 
