LUCKNOW: A couple of days before model code of conduct is expected to be implemented, a hope expressed by   chief  , too, Prime Minister   was back to political rhetoric accusing SP, BSP governments of giving "exile to development" in the past 14 years.
 
 Earlier, taking a similar line, Union Home Minister   minutes before the PM's speech, had said after the formation of BJP government, "good governance will do a ghar wapsi" in the state.
  
 Many say that it would be BJP's return from exile after 14 years, however, once the BJP government is formed, it would be return of development in the state that has been on exile ever since BSP and SP governments came to power, the Prime Minister said. 
 
 Presenting himself as a "UP wallah", the term used by Shah earlier in his speech while referring to Modi, the Prime Minister said that since he is also an MP from Varanasi, he knows how a road construction request is assessed in UP. The priority is given on the basis of the allegiance to a party, Modi said and added several MPs from the state have told him about non-cooperation they face when they want their work done in their constituency. All this has pushed development on the backseat in UP, he said. 
 
 Exhorting the gathering to ensure a BJP government is formed in the state with full majority, the Prime Minister took a dig at the three principal players (Cong, SP and BSP without naming them) one by one to claim that only the BJP wants progress of the state. Hitting out at Congress without naming anyone, the Prime Minister said that one political party's boss has been trying to establish his son ( ) into politics for the 15 years but, it seems the effort has gone waste. On Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), Modi said that one political party is busy parking its money and is searching for banks not only remote areas but also far off places. Similarly, one political party was more concerned about what will happen to its family, Modi said in an apparent reference to the ongoing I-am-a-bigger-leader-than-you feud in the  . 
 
 Earlier, overwhelmed by huge crowd presence in Rama Bai Ambedkar Rally Ground, Modi said that he had never address such a huge crowd in his lifetime and went on to invoke former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee's connect with Lucknow and that how satisfied he must be on watching on television such a huge crowd at the rally of the BJP, an organisation that has become a big tree only due to the efforts of great personalities like him. In the same spirit, Modi also invoked Rajasthan Governor and former UP chief minister Kalyan Singh. The huge turnout in today's rally will lay all speculation to rest about the outcome of UP elections, Modi said. 
 
 Coming to state of affairs in UP, the Prime Minister reiterated that ever since he came to power, Rs 2.5 lakh crore more had been given to UP, but to no avail. Had the money been utilised properly, UP have reached somewhere else by now, the PM said and added that the UP government was not ready to take any responsibility. 
 
 Politics between two political parties can be understood but why politics with the common man, he said and added that the existing situation has to be changed. 
 Further taking on SP and BSP, the Prime Minister while raking up the issue of demonetisation said: "Have you ever seen SP and BSP on the same boat? But now they are united against the note ban."
 
 The government has launched a mobile app for digital transaction recently. It has been named BHIM after Babasabeb Bhimrao Ambedkar as he had expertise on economic reforms at that time, the PM said. "I don't know why there is opposition against this name also," he further added. 
 
 The Centre announced a number of grants a few days back. This, too, has drawn flak, the PM said. It is strange that when Modi takes money, there are problems and when Modi gives money, there are problems, Modi said and added: "The politics of opposing for its sake has made these parties irrelevant."
 
 Exhorting the people to vote in favour of the BJP, the Prime Minister said that politically, the people of the state are judicious. "There might be have been some compulsion of casteism or nepotism sometime back. People have experienced all," he said and urged the people to rise above casteism and nepotism and then see whether the state sees a change or not. 
 
 Concluding his speech, the Prime Minister urged the party workers to remember that for other parties, it will be an issue of who becomes the CM, who become the ministers. But for the BJP, this is an election for responsibility.
 
