VISAKHAPATNAM: With around one in four Indians suffering from depression, doctors have suggested use of psychotherapy to address the issue. Nearly 15 lakh people in the state suffer from   or other mental illnesses. Given the alarming rise in cases of depression and suicide, the  's theme for this year's World Health Day is 'Depression: Let's Talk.' 

 The causes of depression are multi-factorial and reasons vary according to age groups. It can be loss or separation with a loved one or due to death, loss of precious objects, wealth, money, prestige, reputation and so on. It can be work and studies related - performance standard, stress, sleep deprivation, lack of positive strokes, poor social support and lack of social networks.   is one of the most common causes triggering depression. It can be failure of love, friendship, marriage, abusive relationships or due to broken homes, marital disharmony, deprivation of parental love, empty nest syndrome and so on. Besides, medical illnesses such as severe pain, cancer, AIDS,   (heart attacks), hypothyroidism, serotonin deficiency, family history or genetics can also lead to depression.
 
 Treatment of depression depends upon its severity. It can range from administering antidepressants, exercise and chocolates to treatment of severe depression with suicide attempts by administering  .
 
 However, in keeping with the theme 'Depression: Let's Talk,' supportive psychotherapy or counselling by talking to the depressed person plays an important role in handling depression.
 
 "Supportive psychotherapy or counselling can be undertaken by friends, teachers, well-wishers and trained counsellors involving active listening, empathy, non-judgemental unconditional positive regard for client, allowing the client to ventilate feelings, catharsis of pent up emotions, providing psychological support, giving prestige suggestions, narrative psychotherapy by telling inspirational or insightful stories, direct teaching or preaching, developing a therapeutic relationship, which provides the structure for change to occur, providing a corrective emotional experience, providing examples of people who faced similar situations and successfully negotiated them, self-help books, videos, computer based psychotherapy are some such techniques," explained psychiatrist Dr C Radhakanth.
 
