Heading towards your big, D-Day soon? The run-up to it is bound to be full of stress, to-do lists, shopping trips and more. And in all that, it’s important to find the time to recharge, lose the fatigue and get prepared for your wedding day. To help you unwind, it’s a good idea to chalk up trips to the   for a mix of massages for your pressure points, body wraps,   and other relaxation  . Here’s more...

 
 Signature facials are definitely a part of the list. “Brides love the ‘blue diamond’ facial, with mineral ingredients and thermal spring water, which gives a brightening and even tone skin effect,” says Husnavaz Dastur, spa director at a hotel at Lower Parel. And grooms get pampered, too. “Popular for men are facials that use minerals to remove dead skin cells and clarifying masks. You also have eye treatments that are part of the facial,” she says.
 
 
  
  
 One of the best ways to de-stress is via an Ayurvedic  , which effectively drains away toxins and restores the energy balance in the body. The masseur uses vigorous strokes (not painful) in order to balance the energy centers. There’s a lot to try — 
 , a hot-oil massage, 
 , where herb-infused hot oil is dripped onto the forehead or 
 , an oil massage followed by a wrap. There’s also an international blend to help you relax and get shipshape. Says Gunjan Chawla, spa director at a five-star hotel at Juhu, “We do an odyssey, a total indulgence trip, which is an hour-long massage followed by a scrub and a facial that enhances one’s glow. Brides-to-be also love the   sojourn — a luxe scrub with marine salt, brown sugar and lemon that softens the skin and the Egyptian one, where you relax in a milk bath with brown algae extracts and gold flecks, that lends the body a silky smoothness.” And to bust fatigue, opt for a de-stress massage. Says Nalini Naegamvala, “This is a scalp, neck, shoulder, hand and foot massage that eases away aches. It’s a lunchtime regimen that can be done without taking off the clothes or having a shower.”
 
 
  
  
 Skin pampering soaks for the bride and couple-to-be are also big on the agenda. Informs Dastur, “In demand are ‘royal baths’ that use rose bath salts, crystals with rose oil and coloured flower petals and Moroccan lamps — all of which go to enhance the whole experience. So it’s really a colour therapy experience, which is very popular, now.” Traditional herbal baths are also a great option. They offer a tranquil and beautifying experience. “You can use herbs such as 
 or 
 which are added to water or milk and poured over the person. Not only does it help with skin disorders but it is also cooling and refreshing,” says Nitin Rajen,   spa co-ordinator.
 
 
 
  
  
 One of the biggest skin woes is tanning and roughness on the skin of the feet. Spa foot therpies are now as exotic as it gets. You can choose from a variety of foot treatments — with roses, chocolate, peppermint oils, Mandarin oranges, lime and honey. 
 
 
 It’s not just for the bride alone. The trend is to round up the gals and head to the spa. The therapies have now translated into girl getaways to places like Goa and Maldives before the big day. “Each spa has a curated menu designed to ensure that the bride and her friends feel rejuvenated. Popular now, are massages using heated coconut sticks and organic scrubs made from pineapple and papaya, followed by lunch, yoga and meditation,” says Lyle Lewis, general manager at such a facility.
 
 
 One of the latest wellness trends, this uses one of natures’ most basic ingredients — salt, which is anti-bacterial and anti-inflammatory. Say hello to the ‘salt therapy’. Opened at Horniman Circle in Mumbai, you check into the salt room here and breathe in the grain, This helps combat respiratory ailments and leaves you feeling calm and refreshed. Salt also acts as a cleanser on the skin and gives it a glow.
 
 
 
 
