Dehradun: With the bickering in the opposition BJP over the allocation of party tickets spilling out on the streets and social media, a delighted Congress has decided to follow the “wait and watch” policy, even in the face of commencement of nomination process from Friday.

  The ruling party in Uttarakhand has not announced candidate on any seat so far. While, the opposition BJP is facing a revolt like situation since the announcement of its list, in which it gave tickets to several Congress deserters.
 
  According to the Congress insiders, the “delay” in releasing the list may prove a “trump card” for the party.
 
  On the other hand, dissatisfied BJP leaders in all the 14 assembly seats-- where Congress rebels were given tickets-- have blown the bugle against the BJP brass.
 
  Several of the dissatisfied BJP leaders may soon join the Congress, giving the ruling party a shot in the arm.
  Initially, the Congress list was to be released in the first week of January. But now, the party brass is claiming to make it public on either January 19 or 20.
 
  According to insiders, the Congress’ initial list may not contain all the names. It may only have the names of sitting MLAs.
 
  Party sources claimed that a marathon meeting of   was held on Tuesday and Wednesday.
 
  While the meeting on Tuesday commenced around 4 pm and continued till 1am, Wednesday’s CEC meeting at the official residence of party chief Sonia Gandhi started at 5 pm and was on till the time of filing of this report.
 
  With nomination process set to begin on Friday, the Congress may take another few days to name all its 70 assembly candidates. It may also accommodate four members of ally Progressive Democratic Front.
 
  BJP leaders like Om Gopal Rawat, Asha Nautiyal and Suresh Chandra Jain-- who have been denied ticket -- have already announced to contest elections. It is a similar situation at Kotdwar, where   was eying the ticket which went to Congress rebel Harak Singh Rawat.
 
  All four have thrown their hats into the political ring.
 
  An insider, on ground of not being named, said that giving ticket to rebels would prove a double whammy for the BJP.
 
  “On the one end, the dedicated BJP party workers are against the move and at the same time it is not leaving a good impression on the voters,” he added.
 
  When contacted Congress state spokesperson Mathura Dutt Joshi told TOI: “Our chief minister   and state chief Kishore Upadhyay have said that the list will be out on January 19 or any time after that. Deserving candidates will be given the priority in the party list.”
