BHOPAL: Chief minister   has 'reprimanded' school   Vijay Shah for not being able to take immediate steps to regulate private school fee, sources said.

 In a high level meeting held on April 24, the chief minister is reportedly to have drawn ire on the minister and asked him to take speedy steps with regard to private  .
 
 “Chief minister was annoyed on several ministers over being absent from cabinet meetings. He was furious on school education departments working which prompted him to pull up education minister Vijay Shah. He asked him to explain such a huge delay in addressing issues of parents with regard to school fee issue and use of NCERT book issue,” sources privy to the meeting told TOI.
 
 Sources said CM told Shah Weather he was waiting for High Court orders or notices. “Are you waiting for High Court to issues an order to you then you will wake up?” the CM had questioned Shah over regulation of private school fee.
 
 Earlier, Shah had put onus of fee regulation bill on chief minister after he told media persons that it was chief minister who has to take a call.
 
 According to official sources, Chouhan was furious over his ministers who had skipped the executive committee meeting and were also found missing from several cabinet meetings.
 
 “During the meeting he directed all the ministers to take party and cabinet meetings seriously. He also asked his officials to monitor absenteeism of ministers at official meeting and report it to him,” sources added.
 
 Chouhan also pulled up the ministers for now showing interest in Gram Uday Se Bharat Uday campaign. Many ministers are said to have failed to review the progress of campaign in the districts under their jurisdiction.
 
 Chouhan said the ministers should tour their home districts and districts under their charge three days a week to review the progress of Gramodaya campaign and take part in Gram Sansad, Mahila Sansad and Kisan Sammelans.
 
 Chief minister has also asked chief secretary, principal secretaries and other IAS officers not to sit idle at offices instead start traveling.
 
