I’ve waited a long time to vote for the first time in my life and I am surprised how it all ended so quickly. 

 I do feel relieved actually, having voted for the first time and for the candidate of my choice, someone who, I feel, will bring about a change and make all our lives better.
 
 I didn’t have to think hard about who I would vote for. The choice was obvious and was made a couple of months ago. Honestly, when I turned 18 and earned the right to vote, I felt all politicians were alike. That they promise the moon at the time of elections and fail to deliver, making me wonder if it was worth going through the exercise. Even if I had voted, I would have chosen NOTA, as all politicians seem alike, until my parents urged me to see reason.
 
 The choice of candidate was firm in my mind. The person was someone who could deliver, according to my parents, and when I tried to know more about the candidate, it seemed everyone had a point. I made my choice and I know it was the best.
 
 Nobody really has great expectations from our legislators. I would be happy if the MLA delivers on just two things: solving the problem of unemployment, which affects a large section, and protecting the environment, which I really care for. If both were taken care of, Goa would be a much better place.
 
 When I woke up, the first thing I wanted to do was to rush to my polling booth to vote. That didn’t happen because my father, who would accompany me, got delayed and we reached the booth just after noon.
 
 There were not too many people waiting in queue and the process was complete in just five minutes.
 
 Five minutes is all it took for me to act responsibly. I am sure I have made the right choice. I hope we get the right representative and the right government which will create enough jobs for us to work here rather than look for avenues outside the state.
 
 If there was any disappointment, it was that I didn’t get to vote at a pink booth. I love that teddy bear!
 
 The writer voted from Nuvem and is interning with TOI
 
 
