NAGPUR: Despite severe attempts by the city police to curb the  , Nagpur is turning into a heaven for thieves and robbers. Burglars broke into Raju Lonkar’s house in   at Dabha and decamped with valuables worth Rs54,000 on the intervening night of Friday and Saturday. 

 Another similar incident was reported in the jurisdiction of Kalamna police station wherein thieves sneaked into Ramabai Gondule’s locked house and decamped with valuables worth Rs67,500. The family was out of town when the incident happened. 
 
 Gittikhadan and Kalamna police were prompt to register both the cases. But the chances of recovering the stolen items appear bleak. Since the past couple of years, the detection rate of theft cases in the city is less than 30%.
 
 City police recorded 72 cases theft cases between February and March 4 this year — which virtually adds-up to at least three cases of theft, house break-in or vehicle theft a day. The total loss of property was estimated at Rs1.17 crores. The cases reported include 13 instances of robberies or chain snatching. Most of the cases are being reported, especially on the outskirt of the city.
 
 According to the police reports, houses are a soft target for criminals. They generally strike during intervening hours when owners are out of town. Goons usually steal cash and saleable goods like gold and electronic gadgets.
 
 The police have made modest progress in the fight against organized crimes like extortion, forgery and drug peddling. However, they have not been able to tackle theft and burglary cases effectively.
 
 According to investigators, night burglaries will decrease only if house owners or tenants take care of their cash and valuables. They should deposits valuables in banks and install security systems. Houses should not be left unattended.
 
 Despite nakabandis, night patrolling and vehicles inspections, theft cases have hardly reduced. The men in uniform have failed to live up to the expectation when it comes to burlgry.
 
 Citizens have expressed their dismay over the poor recovery of stolen property. According to them, robbers are targeting houses in various localities which are empty and have easy escape routes. They said that police must take note of the grievances of residents staying in isolated areas and patrolling must be intensified during late nights. 
 
