BHOPAL: The Madhya Pradesh government is going to introduce a “legislation” for   for rapists in the monsoon season of assembly, home minister Bhoopendra Singh told TOI on Friday.

 MP will be the first state to do so and hopes to lead the country in enacting tougher laws for crimes against women, especially sexual abuse of minors, SIngh said. “The formalities are being worked out and the bill will be tabled in the  ,” he added. 
 
 Just about a month ago, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan had said at a police event that his government will bring about a legislation to hang rapists.
 
 Sources say the government wants to push for the death sentence particularly in rape of minors. It is also determined to ensure that accused in not only rape but also sexual harassment and molestation cases do not get bail before 90 days and that the prosecution must be heard before grant of bail to accused for any crime against women. This was again a public announcement by the CM.
 
 As Leader of Opposition in Lok Sabha, in September 2013, Sushma Swaraj had demanded death for the   rapist-killers. Madhya Pradesh has long felt the need for tough laws in sexual crimes as it has the tag of the rape capital of the country for years. Officials told TOI on Friday that they are determined that laws for crime against women in MP would be the made the toughest in the country.
 
 When it was pointed out that states cannot change a law that needs amendment of IPC, officials said that the “proposal” would be sent to the Union government and President for approval after being passed in the assembly. The bill for the proposed amendments in IPC is being drafted at the secretariat and police headquarters and will be ready in time for the next assembly session, say sources.
 
 Officials said they want the capital punishment at least in child rape cases, which would necessitate amendment of IPC. Right now, the punishment for rape of minor is 10 years to life under POCSO and 10 years to life under IPC.
 
 Officials said the MP government is hopeful of getting the Union government’s nod and expects the state to lead the country in this regard. Stricter punishments are proposed in cases of sexual harassment in public.
 
 The first time CM Chouhan made a pitch for capital punishment for rapists was on January 12 at the Narmada Seva Yatra at Sandiya village in Hoshangabad. “Deliberations should be held across the country for a stringent law that allows death penalty to rapists. Political parties, religious leaders and social activists should initiate action in this direction,” Chouhan had said. He reiterated it on March 31, announcing that the state will bring about a legislation on this.
 
