MADURAI: As usual,   launched the annual exercise of ‘Operation Muskaan’, a Union government initiative to locate missing and destitute children and reunite them with their family, from July 1. However, missing from the scene this time were several agencies which are usually part of the exercise — Childline, district child protection unit (DCPU) and district social welfare (DSW) department.

 The anti-human traffic unit of the city police claims that it has been regularly carrying out inspections at various places from the beginning of the month. But, officials from Childline and the other related departments are wondering why the police are doing it alone when they are readily extending their cooperation to make the exercise more effective. 
 
 ‘Muskaan’ has been carried out since 2015. While the police used to convene a meeting much before the start of July and plan a schedule and teams in consultation with the other agencies like Childline, an NGO, DCPU, DSW and labour department for the last two years, similar cooperation is missing this year. The ministry of home affairs in its communication clearly suggests that the inspections need to be carried out with these agencies together as they are competent in their fields in one way or the other. 
 
 An official from the social welfare department said that the search conducted by a combined team last year had proved to be effective as at least 60 children were rescued from various places including district and city. “When various agencies are involved, the motivation would be high. Each one of them will be busy with their work and there would not be any room for laxity in the name of inspection,” the officer said. 
 
 A police officer involved in the search was clueless as to why the concerned agencies were not involved this year unlike in the other districts. However, she said they had managed to rescue 24 children so far including four on Friday. 
 
 When contacted, assistant commissioner of police   refrained from explaining about the unusual practice. She said she will ask the officers to make the required communication and take the others on board.
 
