NEW DELHI: Crisis deepened in  's ruling   on Saturday with deputy chief minister   skipping an official function with chief minister   in Patna.

 Tejashwi, who is RJD supremo  's younger son, was scheduled to attend a programme marking the first anniversary of 'Vishwa Yuva Kaushal Divas' at Patna's Gyan Bhawan. He was listed as a distinguished guest in a promotional pamphlet for the event.
 
 According to officials,   Yadav's name plaque was earlier arranged along with that of Nitish Kumar on a table at the event, but it was first covered with a piece of cloth and then hurriedly removed before the programme officially began.
 
  
  
  
 
 
 Accused of corruption in the land-for-hotels case, Tejashwi has been facing pressure to come clean on the allegations, which he and his party has vehemently denied. There's also been a growing clamour for his resignation from chief minister Nitish Kumar's cabinet.
 
 After CBI filed a case against Tejashwi Yadav on July 5, JD(U) has stepped up pressure on RJD chief Lalu Prasad and his family members to disclose the source of "massive property" that they allegedly own.
 
 Without taking any names, JD(U) spokesperson Neeraj Kumar referred to the allegations by the opposition   that Lalu's family members had acquired benami properties at various places in the country, saying these needed to be explained.
 
 A defiant Tejashwi had said that he has no intention of stepping down and the allegations against him were a conspiracy desgined by the BJP. Backing up his son, RJD chief Lalu Prasad, who is also under investigation in connection to a number of scams, insisted that Tejashwi was blameless. He also rubbished reports of fault lines emerging in Bihar's grand alliance .
 
 "Tejashwi will not resign. There is no question of his resignation... Mahagathbandhan (ruling Grand Alliance) is intact in Bihar," Lalu said after a party meeting on Friday.
 
 Meanwhile, senior JD(U) leaders are looking to party chief Nitish Kumar to take the final call on Tejashwi's political fate in the face of a recalcitrant RJD that has made it clear that the younger Yadav son will not resign at any cost.
 
 "Nitish Kumar's stand on corruption is well known. He will never compromise on it," JD(U) spokesperson K C Tyagi previously said.
 
 
 
 
