KOLKATA: Bengal officials, including health secretary R S Shukla and special secretary (medical education)  , have rushed to Delhi to meet Medical Council of India and health ministry officials after the MCI recommended to the Centre to cancel 395 out of the 445   increased in Bengal over the past five years. The suggestion was made after the statutory body, in charge of maintaining the standard of medical education, found most medical institutes in Bengal lacked the infrastructure to accommodate the increased number of students.

 In a letter to the ministry of health, the MCI said it should not renew the increased intake of several medical colleges in Bengal. The MCI suggested 95 increased seats at   and 50 added seats at each of IPGMR, Burdwan Medical College, North Bengal Medical College and   be cancelled. Besides, it said, the permission for ESI (Joka) Medical College, which had a capacity of 100 seats, be cancelled. Apart from ESI, which is a central institute, all the other colleges are run by state and their capacity was raised in 2013-14 and 2014-15. The MCI in 2014 had also suggested cancellation of over 500 medical seats but chief minister   intervened to stop the move. 
 
 At present, the 17 medical colleges in the state has 2,450 seats; if 395 are cancelled, the state’s intake will come down to 2,045. As 637 seats are set aside for candidates from the All India medical joint entrance exams, only 1,418 applicants to the West Bengal joint entrance examination will be eligible for medical studies effectively. 
 
 State health officials, however, claimed the scene wasn’t as bad as back in 2014 and it didn’t call for seat cancellation. “The MCI said the distance between two beds is less than 1.5m, below the specification. They also said the hygiene of student, nurses and residents was poor. They have also cited shortage of equipment, such as OT table, x-ray machines and audio-visual aids,” a senior official said. Admitting to shortage of nurses and doctors ranged from 9% to 22%, he said, “We have told the MCI the recruitment process was on and we will fill the vacancies soon.” 
 
 MCI president Jayashree Ben Mehta said, “I cannot talk about all the details but if the medical colleges present their cases, we will definitely take the matter up seriously.” Though Mehta seened sceptical, a source in medical body said, “There are two parameters, the basic infrastructure and the facilities that includes apparatus, medical equipment and faculties. The state medical colleges have more or less fulfilled the basic criterion and so, there is a strong possibility that we may not lose the seats.”
 
 
