BHOPAL:  , heading the commission probing the   and their   in Bhopal, checked out of his official residence at the circuit house and left with his belongings in a   on Saturday evening sparking rumours of his resignation.

 Senior officials on learning about it rushed and met Justice Pandey and pacified him after which he agreed to return to his official residence on Sunday.
 
 Justice Pandey however denied the reports that he had quit. He said he went on leave and has returned to his official residence.
 
 The head of the SIMI probe commission has been irked by the state’s inability in providing infrastructure for functioning of the panel. Commission was provided with staff and office almost a month after it was notified while its term was ending in February. The panel has already sought for extension in its term.
 
 It so happened that around 6.30 pm on Saturday Justice Pandey, rushed to government rest house and informed the concerning bureaucrats that he is leaving. Though, the top government officials tried to pacify him, he checked out of the circuit house with all his belongings. He took a cab and even refused the services of the official vehicle allotted to him, said sources.
 
 Room number 10, was allotted to justice Pandey at the circuit house in Professors’ Colony on December 5, 2016 and he had been living there since then.
 
 Sources said that Justice Pandey had written to the state for some funds for official work, but he did not get a favourable response. Bureaucratic red-tape seems have irked Justice S K Pandey.
 
 Earlier when he went to his hometown or on leave, the justice had never checked out, said sources. On Sunday morning the staffers at the circuit house were instructed by senior officials that the room number 10, should not be allocated to anyone else.
 
 “We came to know that Justice Pandey had resigned but we did not receive any papers. However, he has been convinced and we are also looking into the issue and if there is any mistake or clerical error from the part of any official strict action would be taken,” principal secretary, chief minister’s secretariat, S K Mishra told TOI.
 
 Mishra also said that government will not accept his resignation at any cost.
 
 Divisional commissioner Ajatshatru Shrivastav who is nodal officer responsible for ensuring all the facilities for the commission refused to comment on the issue.
 
 The panel was constituted by the state government on November 7, a week after the jailbreak by SIMI men and their encounter at a hilltop on Bhopal outskirts in the night of October 30. The 8 SIMI men managed to escape after killing a jail guard and later died in an encounter. The panel was supposed to file its report in three months.
 
  Sources said that the government is likely to increase the tenure of the commission.
 
