NAGPUR: Chancellor C   has sidestepped   vice chancellor SP Kane and handed over temporary charge of Kavikulguru Kalidas Sanskrit University ( ) to Pro-VC Pramod Yeole, who would take over on Monday at Ramtek.

 NU officials and academicians say this is perhaps the first time ever in Maharashtra that a full time vice chancellor of a traditional university has been overlooked by   while delegating the high profile charge. Though the official reason cited by NU is that Kane is headed for UK, academicians say, even in that case, the order should have been in the name of Nagpur University vice chancellor not the pro-VC.
 
 VC Kane told TOI that since he is going on a personal 10-day tour to  , there must have been difficulty in assigning the role. “I had applied for leave two months ago. So, the chancellor must have taken this into consideration,” Kane said.
 
 Asked if he would take over from Yeole on his return in October, Kane said, “The pro-VC would continue to hold the charge until a new VC for Sanskrit University is appointed.”
 
 Pro-VC Yeole said there is no question of the full time VC being sidestepped. “Any senior professor of Sanskrit University too could have been named by the chancellor,” Yeole said.
 
 Sources had informed TOI about the development on September 12. But, on Tuesday, Yeole had denied any knowledge about the order that was issued by the chancellor on September 12 but signed on September 15.
 
 Late on September 16, former dean of faculty Rajendra Kakde, who is close to Yeole, confirmed to TOI that Yeole was indeed being handed over the charge.
 
 Sources say chancellor’s secretary BVG Reddy has taken a serious view about several letters demanding Kane’s resignation over mishandling of recent NU affairs. Over the last few months, Kane and Yeole were slammed for clubbing pharmaceutical sciences in faculty of interdisciplinary studies, appointing Kakde as dean, allegations of nepotism against Kakde, and Kane’s complicity as controller of examinations.
 
 Senior academician Ved Prakash Mishra had said Kane must resign on moral grounds. “This, to my understanding, is not an ordinary event to be dismissed without specific and pertinent notice. It, in a way, is a definite certification of palpable inefficiency as noticed by the Chancellor of the vice chancellor,” Mishra’s letter to Kane and Yeole read.
 
 In the letter, Mishra also said, “I feel that this incident voluminously speaking in its own way should stir your conscience to tender your resignation on moral grounds as a face saving device.” 
 
 
