MUMBAI: Investigations by the   into the recent blaze that had engulfed the iconic   have found that the   was operational, but had lasted for only 30 minutes. Firefighting systems are required to help douse flames for least two hours, said fire officials. 

 On September 16, a major fire gutted the set of a television show and damaged shooting equipment, clothes, imitation jewellery, decoration equipment, furniture and AC duct area on the ground floor of the one storey structure. Firemen said the load-bearing wall structure was being used as a studio. Fortunately, no one was present on the television set at the time of the incident. 
 
 Fire brigade has also zeroed in on two probable causes for the blaze: short-circuit or an overheated electrical gadget.
 
 The final report is likely to be released by Monday. Senior fire officials explained that a huge premises, like a studio, is expected to have courtyard fire hydrants and an upgraded sprinkler system. “The fire pump, which is a part of the sprinkler system’s water supply, needs independent power supply as when fire breaks out, all electrical units are switched off first. Also, the water tank should have enough stock to last for around two hours,” said a senior fire official. 
 
 The official added, “The firefighting system at the studios operated for at least 30 minutes, but as the blaze raged for hours, it didn’t help douse the flames. It being an old studio, the compliances might have of the time when the no-objection certificate (NOC) was issued. Currently, several additional compliances are required to get a fire  .” 
 
 “We are trying to verify if the fire was caused by a faulty electric gadget, erroneous operations or overheated electrical gadgets, which commonly happens at studios,” the official said. “We should be able to zero in on the exact cause soon.” Officials are relying on eyewitnesses’ accounts to investigate into several aspects of the blaze like a loud explosion which occured on the roof when firefighting operations were on.
 
