AMRITSAR: Employees’ unions of the municipal corporations in   have alleged that the four suspended superintending engineers (SEs) and three charge-sheeted former municipal commissioners are bearing the brunt for following orders of the senior functionaries in the government. Earlier, on July 6, local government minister   had ordered action agianst these officers on charges of allotting corporations’ civil work on a single bid and bypassing the law.

 “Bureaucracy takes orders from the elected government representatives. The officers are never in a position to say no to them. Accordingly, the elected representative concerned is responsible for the functioning of its department,” said Harjinder Singh Walia, president, Karamchari Talmel Dal (KTD), a constituent of Joint Action Committee (JAC) formed by various MC unions after the suspension of Amritsar municipal corporation SE P K Goel.
 
 The JAC suspended work at the   for second day on Tuesday. It is seeking reinstatement of the penalised engineer within 72 hours.
 
 Other SEs who were suspended included Kulwinder Singh of Jalandhar MC and Dharam Singh and   of Ludhiana MC while the chargesheeted IAS officers are Sonali Giri, G S Khera and Ghanshyam Thori, former municipal commissioners of Amritsar, Jalandhar and Ludhiana respectively.
 
 Refraining from naming any minister of the previous SAD-BJP government, Walia said, “Even if for a moment we presume that someone may have taken a decision under some kind of consideration, it is unlikely that four SEs and three MC commissioners in three different civic bodies of Punjab take a similar decision. This proves that decisions were taken under some pressure.”
 
 Sources, seeking anonymity, alleged that an atmosphere was being created to eventually lay hands on the former local government minister Anil Joshi. “Ministers often issues both written and verbal orders and we are bound to abide by their directions or face strict action,” said a senior employee of Amritsar MC, who did not want to reveal his name.
 
 However, all union leaders were unanimous on the need to check corrupt practices. “We have no doubt about Sidhu’s honesty and integrity but the manner in which the decision to suspend and charge-sheet officials has been taken, is not correct. Being union members, we will stand by any employee, be it a sewer man or an SE,” said Walia.
 
 
