Mumbai: Observing that the lawyers’ co-mmunity knows that it has to abide by Supreme Court judgment against striking work, a bench headed by the chief justice of   disposed of a challe-nge to a day’s   called by Bar Council of India (BCI) for Friday.

 “In light of various SC judgments, we hope that wisdom would prevail,” said the bench on Thursday. “A strike would mean abstaining from work...We hope the lawyers’ community would appreciate their responsibility in discharging their duties. One has to remember fundamental rights of the litigant.   have a significant role to play, in the mechanism of dispensation of justice,” added the bench. It, however, did not pass any specific order to prohibit the  .
 
 The HC was hearing two PILs against the call by the bar councils to abstain from work for a day to protest against the proposed ‘undemocratic’ amendments to the Advocates Act. The proposed amendme-nts include that disciplinary panel should have two non-lawyers and be headed by a retired district judge, capping the number of terms for elected members and bringing lawyers under the ambit of consumer protection law.
 
 Advocate Manoj Shirsat, who had filed and argued one PIL in person, said the SC had held against strikes by lawyers. The second PIL by businessman Yawar Oomatia said the strike call was illegal and in contempt of SC orders. His lawyer Tanveer Nizam said the SC had said “lawyers have no right to go on or give a call for boycott, not even a token strike”. The call was premature as the amendments were only at a recommendation stage by the Law Commission, he added.
 
 But BCI counsel Amit Sale said the law commission had disregarded its suggestions and those made by retired SC judges and as the recommendations form the first step in the process of law making, it prompted the protest call. To a query from the court, he said the SC order too has held that in a rare case, “a blind eye may be turned to a day’s strike or abstention from work”. 
 
 Advocate Makarand Bokare for the state bar council sought to distinguish between strikes called by the national body, like BCI, and local advocates’ association. He said the state bar council had merely appealed to its members in keeping with the BCI resolution. 
 
 Advocates Association of Western India, with over 8,000 members, later released its resolution supporting the BCI call.
 
