IDUKKI: Even as Munnar is decking itself up for the next Neelakurinji flowering season in 2018, the proposed   at   is still in limbo due to the delay in conducting settlements.

  On October 6, 2006, the then forest minister Binoy Viswam had announced plans to establish a Neelakurinji sanctuary at a 32-sq-km area under Devikulam taluk. However, the hitches in fixing correct boundaries of the proposed sanctuary still remains a headache for the government, which hinder any progress in the project. Though the government is mooting delimitation of boundaries, revenue officials point out that the move would actually help land   and Vattavada.
 
  Former Idukki MP and present Thrikkakkara MLA P T Thomas said, “The state government’s boundary fixing plans are to help Idukki MP Joyce George from facing music over his large scale encroachment in the area. A Perumbavoor-based company has also encroached over 300 acre of land in the 52th block of Kottakambur," he said.
 
  In 2010, former Devikulam RDO submitted a report to the district collector pointing out the hurdles of settlement at the proposed   at Kottakkambur. "After understanding the local issues thoroughly I decided to ask for the claim and appointed a special officer to collect the claims of inhabitants. When the special officer had collected almost 80 %(452) claims, he was assaulted. Now the land record verification and further process are blocked in the area. When I reached Vattavada to conduct a hearing, an all-party group expressed their unwillingness to take part in the hearing," said the report. “Many times the Devikulam sub collector sought the original land documents for awarding compensation and settling the issue. But nobody submitted the original documents and tried to sabotage the settlement action,” said P T Thomas.
 
  In 2014, former land revenue commissioner Nivedida P Haran also submitted a report on the proposed Neelakurinji sanctuary at Anchunad village. The report also pointed out: “The government should check the validity of the title deeds and other documents to these areas.The illegal eucalyptus plantations in the area badly are affecting the ecology of the proposed Neelakurnji sanctuary and they should be immediately removed”.
 
