HYDERABAD: The   has clarified that   can be prosecuted by the state for corruption.

 This follows an opinion sought by the   (CID) of the state police on the issue on April 1, 2015, in a case involving an alleged corruption case amounting to Rs 1.04 crore by a central government employee.
 
 The home department which studied some court ca ses on the controversial is sue across the country issu ed a clarification to the CID and gave its nod to prosecute Central government employ ees in this particular case.
 
 According to Govern ment Order (Rt No. 88 dated 7 2-2017), permission was accorded to try central go vernment employees under Prevention of Corruption Act involved in crime no. 42 2011 under Sections 403, 409, 468, 471, 420 and 201 of IPC under Section 66 (C) of IT Act and Section 13 (2) re ad with 13 (1)(c)(d) of Preven tion of Corruption Act, 1988. Permission to investigate central government staff by the state government is significant as this is the first of its kind in the state. Even in undivided  , trial of central government employees in corruption cases was not executed by state police.
 
 “So far, we have only prosecuted state government employees,“ a senior police officer said.
 
  (CBI) can only act against central government employees in corruption cases across the country .CBI's jurisdiction has been challenged in courts, which offered their own view. CBI was established under the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act.
 
 The Telangana government has quoted judgment of a division bench of the MP High Court in Ashok Kumar Kirthwar's case in 2001 that Delhi Special Police Establishment Act does not deprive state police of its jurisdiction to investigate offences of bribery and corruption against government employees posted in the state.
 
 
 
 
 Division bench of Jabalpur HC quashed an FIR against public servant Ravindra Kumar Dubey on July 8, 2016. Judges ruled, the probe conducted, charge-sheet filed by police was without power in regard to special offences punishable under Prevention of Corruption Act 1988. 
 
 
