In today's fast-paced world filled with increasing demands, managing your stress level is very important. Stress activates the   continuously which is associated with the fight-or-flight response. When our sympathetic nervous system gets activated, it produces excessive Cortisol and adrenaline which flows in blood and after reaching to heart it increase heart rate, constrict our  , and increases blood pressure. Some people cope with stress by overeating or eating unhealthy foods, smoking, drinking that raise their risk for heart attack, stroke and high blood pressure.

 Mindfulness meditation has been found to be an effective complementary tool against managing  . Study published in Psychosomatic Medicine Journal in 2013 has demonstrated that it is possible to use our mind to lower blood pressure and this pill free approach may be just as effective as drugs. In this randomized clinical trial, 56 men (43%) and women (57%) averaging 50 years of age with non-medicated BP were randomized to 8 weeks of MBSR (Mindfulness Based Stress Reduction - body scan exercises, sitting meditation, and yoga). They found that Individuals in the MBSR group had an average reduction in systolic pressure of nearly 5 mmHg and a drop in diastolic pressure of nearly 2 mmHg. It was concluded that MBSR is a drug-free approach may be a suitable complementary approach for people with prehypertension.
 
 To reduce blood pressure naturally, one of the best things we can do to lower stress is to learn to manipulate with sympathetic nervous system activity with the techniques to calm our system, defuse emotional anxiety, and promote optimal physical and mental balance. Mental balance can be achieved by spending time enjoying nature. You can simply kick off your shoes and practice grounding. The Earth's surface contains a limitless number of free electrons that are continually replenished through solar radiation; our body naturally absorbs these particles when we make physical contact with the ground. The simple act of walking barefoot on the earth reduces stress, increases calmness, and lowers blood pressure.
 
 Let's pack your bag and de-stress yourself along with family to achieve mental peace and healthy life.
 
 
 
 
 
