HYDERABAD: On the Telugu new year day of Ugadi, parts of   and Andhra Pradesh reeled under intense heat with the mercury zipping past the 40 degree Celsius mark. Many places in Telugu states recorded 41 degrees Celsius forcing people to stay indoors.

 The India Meteorological Department ( ), Hyderabad, on Wednesday issued an alert for Telangana and Andhra Pradesh forecasting that the day temperatures will be above normal by at least two to three degrees in the next three days.
 
 The common capital of Hyderabad recorded 40.5 degrees on Wednesday . However, the feel-like temperature was higher by a few degrees due to rapid concretisation and denudation of greenery. The day's highest maximum temperature of 41 degrees was recorded in Adilabad and Medak in Telangana and Anantapur, Kurnool and Nandyal in Andhra Pradesh. At other places, it was above normal.The coastal districts, which are known for their hot and humid weather, were relatively cooler on Wednesday .Visakhapatnam recorded 31 degrees while   in the   capital region recorded 37.5 degrees. Rayalaseema region will however, continue to be hotter.
 
 The rise in the tempera ture is attributed to the absence of rain-bearing clouds along the coast and the lack of a favourable weather sy stem. IMD officials said the day temperatures would continue to be on the rise.They predict that Hyderabad's temperature would reach 41degrees Celsius by the week-end.
 
 “Since March 19, there has been no weather system (trough or cyclonic circulation) along the sea coast.Usually , these systems help bring the temperature down by pulling over cloud cover.But, in the last two weeks there has been a lull in such activity,“ said Dr K Naga Ratna, a scientist with the weather department.
 
 The rising temperature is taking a heavy toll on wild animals in the Seshachalam and Nallamala forests in AP and wildlife sanctuaries in Telangana. Reports of waterholes drying up early due to failure of monsoon last year have come in from various districts. Though forest officials have initiated measures, they are not sufficient in view of the vast forest cover. In Chittoor, forest officials are faced with an `elephantine' problem with pachyderms entering human habitations in search of food and water. A few cases of the wild fauna venturing into villages apparently to quench their thirst have been reported from different areas in Telugu states.
 
