NEW DELHI: If one were to see the   of an accident that took place in south-west Delhi’s Sagarpura on New Year’s Day, the survival of the woman caught between two vehicles can only be described in one word: miracle. A Maruti Ertiga swerves into her at speed and flings her against an incoming Maruti WagonR. Then as the Ertiga plow into the WagonR, the latter overturns and falls on the woman, trapping her upper body under its rear portion. Amazingly, when people frenziedly pull her away after lifting the WagonR, she is still alive.

 The incident took place around 3pm on January 1 when  , 40, a resident of Pink Apartments, was waiting by the roadside for an autorickshaw.  , another resident, had just driven out past the apartment gates when the white Ertiga came careening from the direction of Nasirpur, hit Anand and then rammed into Joyal’s car.
 
 After freeing Anand from under the WagonR, people hurried her to a police van that providentially stood nearby. The people also put the WagonR upright, leaving a shaken Joyal to emerge from it without much harm. The driver of the Ertiga tried to reverse and flee, but a broken axle put paid to the idea and he was thrashed by the crowd until rescued by a police team.
 
 According to the Pink Apartments resident welfare association, police took Anand to a private hospital in the locality, which turned her away for lack of facilities to treat the severe injuries on her lower body and her head. She was instead referred to the  . There, surgery on her lower limbs was carried out on Wednesday. 
 
 The cops found the Ertiga car was driven by a 17-year-old boy, a resident of neighbouring Dasrath Puri. The car carried a VIP sticker imprinted with “Vigyan Bhawan” and “CC Crime” on it in fonts used by Delhi Police and central government offices. The sticker was later established to be a fake. The boy’s father, who runs a security agency in Noida, rented out his cars to government offices.
 
 The minor has been sent to a juvenile justice home. “We shall invoke the harshest possible penal provisions against the father and owner of the vehicle and will submit a social background report about the juvenile to the juvenile justice board,” assured Surender Kumar, DCP (Southwest). The father has been booked under the Motor Vehicles Act for allowing a minor to drive a car, and the cops are also likely to charge him with impersonation for using the stickers to give the impression that the Ertiga was a Delhi Police vehicle.
 
 The boy’s parents claimed that they had left home for a religious ceremony and the youngster had driven the car in their absence. “We apologise about what happened and will ensure it doesn’t happen again,” said the mother. She rubbished allegations that the boy was intoxicated at the time of the accident.
 
 
