ISLAMABAD: With the appointment of Pakistan’s outgoing foreign secretary   as ambassador to the United States, several diplomats are in the running for the country’s top bureaucratic position in foreign affairs. These include former ambassador to France Ghalib Iqbal, high commissioner to India Abdul Basit, permanent representative to the UN in Geneva  , and high commissioner to the UK Syed Ibn-i-Abbas.

 Foreign office sources said Janjua is the frontrunner. Sources told TOI that Sharif gave her name the nod as far back as last summer when she was in Islamabad for envoys’ conference. Janjua, who’d earlier served as ambassador to Italy, also worked as spokesperson of the foreign office for two years. Her spouse Mansur Ahmad too is a diplomat, currently serving in Switzerland.
 
 Had seniority been the only criterion, Abdul Basit would have been a shoo in for the next FS. In fact, he was Sharif’s first choice for the job in 2013 when he was asked to return to Islamabad from Berlin. But, Sharif changed his mind and picked   to head the foreign service.
 
 Basit was sent to India as high commissioner. But, sources said this time Basit is out of favour with Sharif, who is believed to be displeased with his hosting of Kashmiri separatists in New Delhi ahead of a planned FS-level meeting between India and Pakistan in Aug 2014. It had led to the cancellation of bilateral talks and sent ties into freeze.
 
 Leading English daily Dawn reported that the meeting with Kashmiri separatists was just one incident, and there were series of Basit missteps that sowed misunderstandings with Sharif.
 
 The post of FS will fall vacant after Chaudhry moves to Washington to replace ambassador Jalil Abbas Jilani. Jilani, on extension after completing his earlier contractual period, will relinquish his charge in February first week.
 
 With the change of the foreign secretary, major reshuffle would take place in Pakistan’s envoys in important capitals. Changes will also take place within the foreign office as well. The new foreign secretary will authorise the changes, the sources added.
 
 
