KOZHIKODE: The   is strangling the livelihoods of even the forest dwelling tribes who used to earn a living by collecting and selling   (MFP) in   

 The vital lifeline of the tribal people, who live far off from the trappings of the digital society, has been snapped as tribal cooperative societies in the district have almost stopped the procurement of forest produce due to currency shortage caused by restrictions for the societies to withdraw money from their bank accounts.
 
 The crisis has particularly hit the ongoing procurement season for the rare and exotic spice 'Black stone flower', locally called Kalpasam, which used to fetch over Rs 300 per kg for tribal people.
 
  The edible lichen, which grows on trees and rocks, is used as a food flavouring agent and had over the years emerged as one of the leading minor forest produce in the district.
 
 "More than a currency crisis, the situation is becoming a humanitarian crisis. The tribal families who come here after painstakingly collecting the minor forest produce by spending upto four to five days in the jungles are forced to return empty handed as we have no money to procure it. It is really a very sad situation," Rajitha K A, an official at the Scheduled Tribes Cooperative Society and Kallur in Sultan Bathery said.
 
 She said that prior to demonetisation the society used to procure forest produce worth up to Rs 2 lakh daily from the tribals. "But now the business is down to a bare minimum due to the weekly currency withdrawal limit of Rs 24,000 applicable to the society. We are making part- payment for tribal people, who are desperate to hand over the collected produce to us," she added.
 
 The society has stopped the collection of Kurunthotti, Chunda and other medicinal plants due to the cash shortage.
 
 "We used to make the MFP procurement through cash transactions alone. Cheque payment is not viable as many of the tribal MFP collectors don't have bank accounts," she said.
 
 Bhaskaran, a tribal hailing from Ponkuzhi, said that the currency shortage has crushed the livelihoods of many tribal families.
 
 "We have stopped collecting forest produce as the societies are not buying it due to the cash shortage. We didn't expect that the withdrawal of currency notes would affect us this badly. With no cash at hand, our families are struggling to find means for daily sustenance," he said.
 
 Officials at the federation of SC/ST cooperative societies in Wayanad said that the entire procurement and auctioning activities have been hit due to the currency shortage.
 
 "This year even the auction of minor forest produce was delayed due to the impact of demonetisation. Also the buyers had quoted less to many products," an official at the Federation office at Kalpetta said.
 
