Panaji: Impacts of demonetization and the mining ban, issues related to land resources, the   (RP) and nationalization of rivers, corruption, gambling and casinos, social schemes for people and employment are major issues expected to power the February 4 assembly poll.

 The run-up to the March 2012 election was dominated by cases of illegal mining, corruption, RP 2021, special status to Goa, constitution of the Lokayukta and a few other issues. Political leaders and people across the spectrum said voters are now likely to be swayed by the same emotive matters besides a few additional ones.
 
 “Failure to implement the RP, issues concerning tenants, demonetization and corruption, among others, will go against the BJP government and give Congress a chance,” Congress spokesman Ramakant Khalap, said.
 
 The BJP government commenced its term in 2012 with a surgical strike against mining in the state. “Mining activity came to a halt in entirety and as per figures provided in the Goa assembly, more than a lakh of people lost their jobs, including truckers and barge workers,” he said.
 
 The saffron party’s tenure at the helm of the state’s affairs is ending with yet another blow, Khalap said. “Before people could come out of the mining ban shock, demonetization dealt them another one. Those who have money in banks have no right over their own money. This is the greatest violation of human rights,” he said.
 
 Goa Forward Party president Prabhakar Timble, said the RP, land resources slipping out of the people’s hands and nationalization of rivers will be key issues. “Protecting the rights of local youth to employment and attacks on social harmony will also figure prominently ahead of February 4,” he stated.
 
 But Cleofato Coutinho, a former judge and political analyst, said only a few serious issues figure ahead of the election, pointing out instead, that the quality of BJP’s governance may be in focus.
 
 “The election will be fought on the issue of the present regime’s five years of governance and not the RP, or casinos, which have ceased to be major issues,” he said.
 
 The government’s doling out of popular schemes is likely to be a talking point for voters. “Which party offers better schemes will be a crucial issue. Finally, governance is being reduced to governance by schemes, though it should not happen,” Coutinho said.
 
 
