Bharuch: Frequent fires in scrap godowns between Ankleshwar and Panoli industrial estates have brought its owners under suspicion. With a series of such incidents on National Highway (NH)-8 the district administration formed a committee to identify the reasons of frequent fire. The committee was formed upon direction by the Gujarat Pollution Control Board (GPCB) and will be headed by a sub-divisional magistrate of Ankleshwar and comprise members of revenue department, GPCB, Director Industrial Safety and Health (DISH), mamlatdar and Notified Area Officer. They will submit a detail status report in 10 days’ time.  Rajan Trivedi, regional officer of Gujarat Pollution Control Board, Ankleshwar told TOI, “It is going to be tough for all scrap traders who have illegal business. Preliminary reason for fire in past two months turns out to be intentional to wipe out evidence of their illegal trade.” It was observed that most scrap traders between Ankleshwar-Panoli do not have proper land title, registration of business, facilities to dispose of waste. Hence, for the first time in the state, efforts are put in to define policy for scrap traders and their method of disposal.  “More than seven fire incidents in scrap godowns were reported in past two months. However, no one was injured in any of these fires. Most of the godowns are located in and around Ansari Marker, which is a cluster of scrap traders, who mostly deal in waste chemicals, drums, carboys, bags, plastic waste, machinery and all kind of scrap. Around 200 traders are doing business since two decades,” said Trivedi. “We have asked industries association to develop common decontaminated facilities so that at least hazardous scrap is sold only after it is safely treated. Prime responsibility always remains with waste generator, they have to be equally responsible,” he added. Arvind Agrawal, additional chief secretary along with GPCB officials will visit Ankleshwar on Wednesday to review the environment condition, post lifting of moratorium and issues to regulate scrap trading business. 