MUMBAI:   chief   has given a dressing down to his ministers following widespread resentment in the Sena legislature party (SLP) over non-availability of state funds. The MLAs' resentment over party ministers' indifference to their problems has become a cause of concern for  , said sources.

 Thackeray tried to quell dissension in the SLP by holding discussions with MLAs and ministers at his Bandra residence on Thursday. He pulled up his ministers for not doing enough to ensure that adequate state funds are allocated to MLAs and assured the latter that the party will back them on the issue. But   is in no haste to give marching orders to some of the ministers who have become the target of the SLP's ire, sources said.
 
 Adelegation of Sena legislators will meet chief minister Devendra Fadnavis on Friday to demand adequate and judicious allocation of state funds, senior ministers Eknath Shinde and Ramdas Kadam told mediapersons after the Matoshree conclave.
 
 There is also unrest in the SLP over Matosh ree's “brazen bias“ in fa vour of Mumbai. Seve ral MLAs from the hin terland have met senior party functionaries over the last two weeks to convey their ire on the issue, said sources. “Many MLAs are of the view that Uddhavji should devote more attention to the heartland--Vidarbha and Marathwada--where there is ample scope for Sena to deepen its organizational roots,“ said a Sena functionary .“We can't lose sight of the fact that BJP is expanding its base in rural Maharashtra.“
 
 The inclusion of four Sena leaders from Mumbai into the state cabinet--Subhash Desai, Divakar Raote, Ramdas Kadam and   --has long been a thorny issue as rural MLAs allege that none of them have been “responsive“ to their problems.
 
 Stating that BJP ministers were prompt in allocating funds to their MLAs, the Sena MLA pointed out that paucity of funds could derail some key projects and this may adversely affect the party's poll prospects in 2019. “None of our Mumbai ministers are ready to see beyond their noses and some of them are happy to cosy up to the chief minister,“ he said. Also, the fact that Desai, Raote, Kadam and Sawant are members of the legislative council has added to the MLAs' ire. “A directly elected MLA needs to be made minister as it helps him acclerate development in his region,“ he said.
 
