NEW DELHI: The   (IMA) has asked its state and local units to raise   from member   to organise   and functions instead of seeking sponsorship. According to  , the decision was taken at a meeting on Wednesday in view of allegations about pharmaceutical companies and the device industry shaping the content and style of medical conferences.

 “If doctors want to meet at a five-star hotel, they should be willing to pay for it. I would prefer that meetings are kept low key and the focus is on academic/educational update,” Dr K K Aggarwal, national president of IMA, said. 
 
 He added that IMA had also decided that Continuing Medical Education (CME) programmes, organised by their units, should have a disclaimer that the update was organised purely on evidence-based medicine and was not influenced by the industry or any other external factors.
 
 According to an IMA circular, a copy of which is with TOI, the pattern of organising CME) programmes could be: CME over a contributory cup of tea or coffee, CME over contributory lunch and dinner, sunshine CME over contributory breakfast and moonlight CME over contributory dish. 
 
 “The concept will help IMA focus on academic contents and not fund-raising. It will also remove the myth that CME programmes are dependent on pharma and industry support,” the circular says. It elaborates that the whole concept of IMA is based on the concept of film shows, where no meals are served during interval and one has to buy his/her own snacks.
 
 It has been alleged that medical conferences have become promotional events for drugs and devices from sponsoring companies and doctors often act as cheerleaders. 
 
 This was highlighted in a TOI report on the trade brochure of the Indian Arthroscopy Society conference slated for October. It said that a platinum sponsor, who has to shell out Rs 65 lakh, will get “two-three live surgeries for demo of company product” and three product workshops, among other things.
 
 The gold sponsorship worth Rs 45 lakh is offered in exchange of two product workshops and one surgical demonstration, while the silver sponsor paying Rs 25 lakh has to choose between a surgical demo and a product workshop.
 
 Another report on funding of Indian Academy of Paediatrics (IAP), the body representing over 23,000 paediatricians in India, revealed most of its industry funding came from IAP’s annual conference, ‘Pedicon’, and funding for the association’s activities under the Presidential Action Plan.
 
 In 2016, IAP earned Rs 5.5 crore, of which almost 30% was the combined income from Pedicon (Rs 55 lakh) and the Action Plan (Rs 1.1 crore). 
 
 Pedicon’s share is usually much larger, touching Rs 93 lakh and Rs 94 lakh in 2013 and 2014 respectively, including the bidding charge of Rs 15 lakh, which the central IAP receives from the organising branch.
 
