PUNE: Tukaram Mundhe, chairman and managing director of   Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) sprang a surprise on Friday by hopping on buses plying on BRT routes -- Katraj, Hadapsar, Yerwada, Sangamwadi and Vishrantwad, and pulling up 16 employees for deriliction of duty.

 Mundhe also interacted with passengers and took real time feedback from them on the quality of service and ways to improve it.
 
 “During the travel, the CMD took action against four employees for breaching rules. While immediate action was initiated against one of them, two were fined while one faced a day’s suspension. In addition, six employees were slapped with pay cut for a day and two more were fined. The CMD checked the systems on buses and whether they were in working condition,” an official said.
 
 At the Katraj bus stand, it was found that many two-wheelers had encroached on the spot, making it difficult for passengers to embark or disembark. The CMD instructed that the vehicles be locked immediately with the help of wheel lockers.
 
 “A driver was found to be late for duty and instructions were given for his suspension. The CMD became angry after inspecting the washroom as it was dirty. There was garbage lying all around and a ticket roll had been thrown too. The in-charge was fined Rs 5,000 for the same. In addition, he found another bus which had its doors tied with the help of a rope. Orders for the suspension of drivers and conductor were passed immediately. Five employees faced suspensions while rest were either fined or were slapped with no pay for a day or suspended for a day,” the official pointed out.
 
 Earlier, the manager of the Swargate depot was fined Rs 8,000 as he was found to be  
 
 “Checks and surprise inspections will continue. The employees will not be able to take things lightly when it comes to doing their job. Today, a majority had no clue about the visit and many even didn’t recognise him,” another official said.
 
 Jugal Rathi, the head of the PMP  , said that such action was necessary.
 
 “This will give a strong message to all concerned and hopefully bus service will improve. We have been raising all these issues but all our concerns had fallen on deaf ears,” Rathi said.
 
