Chennai: With nearly 90% of Indian mobile users on pre-paid cards, security experts say that UIDAI might face roadblocks when it comes to Aadhaar-based financial transactions. Security experts said the biggest problem with OTP-based authentication is the frequency with which India’s 95 crore cellphone users change their SIM cards. K Sankaranarayanan, strategic business head, South, Aircel said that more than 33% of customers in India keep changing their SIM yearly. “Of more than 25 million customers that Aircel has in South India, only 15-20 lakh customers have retained the same SIM card for a period of more than 5 years,” he added.

 A Vodafone executive said that it was this frequent changing of SIMs that causes particular hardship to customers when it comes to getting updates, OTPs from their banks, other government bodies. “Continuity in the registered mobile number becomes crucial as India steps up digitisation” said the executive. Banks primarily are finding ground-level implementation of Aadhaar-based platforms a hurdle because of the prevalence of pre-paid cards. For instance Kotak Mahindra Bank found that only 20-25% of OTP-based Aadhaar transactions in its securities business were successful. 
 
 “Given the dependency on prepaid SIM cards in India, it is difficult to get exact statistics on the challenges of implementing Aadhaar-based authentication. However, basis insights from the securities business, we noticed that only 20-25% transactions were successful when an OTP was sent for verification using the Aadhaar platform,” said Deepak Sharma, chief digital officer, Kotak Mahindra Bank. 
 
 Banks are finding the huge prepaid SIM market particularly irksome in terms of business continuity.
 
 “People frequently buy new SIMs trying to capitalise on some ongoing offers. People also exchange SIMs between family members; many have dual SIMs; some let the SIM with which they registered with UIDAI go inactive. Hence, tThere are multiple reasons for failed transactionswhy a transaction can fail,” said Sharma. 
 
 “Most often people just cannot remember the number to which the OTP might have been sent to — this poses a challenge,” he said. Another problem is that most customers use their primary SIM only for 18-20 days a month. “Only a minority, in particular post-paid users, use their SIMs 24/7, 30 days a month,” said Sankaranarayanan. Telecosm providers said that the problem could be solved if companies and banks made an active push to promote postpaid connections. "Postpaids today are prevelant only in metros like Mumbai, Delhi, Chennai, Bengaluru. Getting postpaid connections are also difficult as you have to prove to your telecom provider that you have a stable income. Authorities should also create more consumer awareness on the need to retain one SIM, along with the Aadhar promotional campaigns," said the Vodafone executive.
 
 
