AURANGABAD:   major irrigation project is filled to half of its live storage capacity due to fresh heavy inflows from upstream dams located in Ahmednagar and   districts, during the past 24 hours that ended on Sunday evening. 

 The dam has received addition of a whopping around 3.33 TMC water during the said period, taking its live storage to around 47%. Nathsagar, the reservoir of the dam, was receiving water at the speed of 60,000 cusec from upstream areas at one point during the concerned 24-hour period. 
 
 Incidentally, the dam is also filled to nearly half of live storage capacity even though its catchment areas have reported relatively lower rainfall.
 
 Jayakwadi dam in-charge A H Chavan said, “The fresh inflows could continue for some hours that would further increase the dam level.”
 
 “The upstream dams have started releasing water since Saturday morning, resulting into fresh inflows towards Nathsagar. Without substantial rainfall in catchment, the dam is reaching half its live storage capacity,” he said. 
 
 The live storage of Jayakwadi was around 42% before fresh inflows and it escalated to 47% within 24 hours. During the corresponding period last year, the dam was still in dead storage as extraction from dead storage had occurred during the drought year of 2015. 
 
 Jayakwadi major irrigation project had received an additional of 15 TMC water in the past only 10 days due to inflows from upstream areas owing to good rainfall in Nashik and Ahmednagar districts by July 25.
 
 As per updates shared by the flood-control cell of the Irrigation department, Nagamthan River Gauging Station released water at a speed of 30,200 cusec towards Jayakwadi, while   witnessed a discharge of 12,620 cusec towards Jayakwadi by 6pm. Darna, Gangapur and Kadwa group of dams were also releasing water at a speed of 3,952 cusec, 2,055 cusec and 1,518 cusec, respectively among other inflows. 
 
 Meanwhile, the India Meteorological Department has predicted no major rainfall activity in   and nearby areas in the next couple of days. The weather is likely to remain cloudy with the possibility of light rain or drizzle. 
 
 The overcast conditions resulted into rise in mercury level with the maximum temperature hovering at around 30.2 degrees celsius, which was above normal by 1 degree celsius on Sunday. 
 
