PATNA: The holy month of   is expected to begin from Saturday or Sunday, depending on when the moon is sighted, according to Islamic lunar calendar ( ).

 It is during this month the Muslims observe the fast from dawn till dusk and abstain from food and drink. It falls on the ninth month of the Islamic calendar. 
 
 Traditional markets in Patna, such as  , Phulwarisharif and Patna City, have donned a festive look to welcome the holy month. Vendors have imported varieties of dates from countries like Saudi Arabia, Turkey, Tunisia and Spain.
 
 Mohammad Raju, owner of a dry fruit shop at Sabzibagh, said five varieties of dates – Al-Fard, Kimia, Barari, Kurma and Ajwa – are much in demand this year. “These dates range from Rs 280 to Rs 2,400 per kg depending on quality. The local ones like Kash, Al-Fada and Sari are priced between Rs 250 and Rs 600 per kg,” he added. Devotees eat dates to break the fast.
 
 Supermarkets and malls, too, are ready to woo customers with attractive offers. Small vendors with makeshift stalls are also ready with dates and other essential items for Ramzan like topis, ittar, tasbee, prayer mat and Arafat scarf. 
 
 Jamal Ahmed, owner of an ittar shop, said devotees prefer light and long lasting fragrance. Dear musk, Al-rehab, Jannat-ul-Firdaus and black musk are finding many takers. There is also demand for sandalwood agarbatis.”
 
 Bakeries in the city, including the ones at Sabzibagh, are offering a variety of baked delicacies like cheery toast, butter toast, gol badami, mitha kaju, chocolati, pakizah, makuti and gulfam. 
 
 Md Afsar Ali, a bakery owner, said sale of shahi bakarkhanees, the special rotis enriched with dry fruits, increases manifold during Ramzan. It costs Rs 150 per piece.”
 
 Many hotels have also set up tents to entertain the visitors. 
 
 Mohammad Imran, who runs a makeshift tea stall at Sabzibagh, said, “It takes 14 hours to prepare this special tea enriched with nuts and almonds. It costs Rs 12 per cup. After breaking the fast, people prefer to drink sheer chai. We sell this tea during Ramzan only.” 
 
 Various mosques in the city will also arrange evening meal and ‘taraweeh’, a special prayer at night. 
 
 
