BURDWAN/KOLKATA/KALYANI: The pre-Mahalaya period is perhaps the only time of the year when the technological clock is turned back and old-fashioned radios are pulled out of the attic.Long substituted by its more modern and handier versions like the cell phone and car music systems, there are still many who prefer to usher in the festive season by tuning in to  's shlokas on a conventional radio set, which is now scarce across the city. But a handful of shops selling and repairing radios across central Kolkata spring to life in autumn to cater to the need.

 This year has been no exception.   shops say they have repaired dozens of radios over the last two weeks. Sales have also been brisk. “The pre-puja period sees a spurt in sales and repairs every year. This happens due to Mahalaya, which, many insist should only be listened to on a proper radio set,“ said Sheikh Mujtaba, a Chandi Chowk radio technician. Mujta ba said he has repaired close to 20 radios last week. Owner of another   radio shop said it has been selling close to a dozen radio sets everyday since August-end.
 
 The trend is reflected in many other parts of the state as well. Demand for radio sets is soaring in Burdwan, too, while radio mechanics too are making a killing with many customers approaching them to repair their old radios.
 
 A mechanic in Burdwan town said he had repaired some 80 radios in last 10 days. “Most customers were aged men and women with only a few in their middle ages. Some also came to buy new radio sets for Mahalaya. During this time, the demand for radio sets rises,“ said mechanic Debashish Das.
 
 The scene is less encouraging for those looking for new radio sets, though. Show owners say though they are trying to stock up new radio sets to meet the Mahalaya demand, supply isn't enough.Most radio manufacturers have long stopped large-scale production of radio sets, say shopowners.
 
 Be that as it may, things change prior to Durga Puja. Listening to the chants of Mahalaya is an inevitable part of Bengali life. Moreover, people listen to the pre-dawn chants in groups. This makes radio sets the only medium. Moreover, many in the older generation want their children and grandchildren to imbibe the tradition of listening to Mahalaya chants from the early hours. It is this urge that has propelled the demand for radio sets.
 
 Radio shopowner Debu Dutta said, “This year, I witnessed a huge demand for radio sets. I managed to sell 15-20 radio sets a day.“
 
 Sukumar Batobyal, 78-year-old retired mining engineer of Sealdanga, Burdwan brought his old radio to a repair shop in Raniganj Bazaar before Mahalaya. His eightyear-old granddaughter Sourasmi was with him. He told TOI, “From my childhood I have been listening to   path and have always enjoyed the programme with my family .“ Manik Das, a radio sales and services shopowner at Kalyani, has been working round-theclock since last week. “While we hardly get to repair radios throughout the year, the scenario changes before every Mahalaya. I have received 15 radios for repairs since last Sunday .“
 
