HYDERABAD: A ruling   MLA,  , was embroiled in a controversy on Wednesday after he was   by a woman collector during the launch of the third phase of  .

 After   Preeti Meena's allegation against the MLA threatened to dent the TRS' woman-friendly image, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao was forced to fire-fight. A statement from CMO said the MLA was warned if “he does not change his behaviour (sic)' he would be suspended from the party“. Later, the MLA apologized to the collector.
 
 On Wednesday morning, during the launch of Haritha Haram in Mahbubabad, the TRS MLA allegedly grabbed the collector's upper arm. In a video grab, the collector can be seen flinching and wriggling out from the MLA 's grip. The collector immediately shot off a complaint to the chief secretary SP Singh and the IAS Officers' Association. The incident triggered an inferno when staff of Mahbubabad district collectorate launched a lightning protest wearing black badges and threatened to boycott duty . If the collector is treated in “I this manner by the MLA, what would be our fate?
 Who will protect us from such politicians,“ asked an official at the collectorate. Chief secretary SP Singh took strong exception to the high-handedness of the legislator.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Singh said, “Even though the MLA is saying it was unintentional and happened in a hurry , it warrants an apology . A woman IAS officer cannot be pushed even in a melee. Decency and decorum should be followed. The government will ensure such unfortunate incidents don't recur.The MLA was forced to tender an apology and the government will not spare anybody who misbehaves with women.“
 
 According to sources, the collector asked the district SP to register a criminal case against the MLA. Sources told TOI, she was prevailed upon not to lodge a police complaint.
 
 According to a statement from his office, KCR 'expressed anger' at Shankar Nayak's 'rash behaviour'. The CM expressed regret over the incident and instructed the MLA to meet the collector and tender an unconditional apology .
 
 Late in the evening, Shankar Nayak, accompanied by tourism minister A Chandulal, met the Mahbubabad collector.Nayak said, “I did not misbehave with her. She is like a sister to me. I apologised to her if I hurt her feelings by my action.“
 
