NAGPUR: The   medical officers and pilots, who claim to have been on strike since Sunday, claim that more doctors and drivers have joined hands with them. The associations of doctors and pilots working in 108 ambulances across the city claimed services were severely hampered today, with 35 out of 42 ambulances not working, and only extreme emergency cases being taken up.

 However, ambulance operator   continued to stick to its stand that the strike was just a rumour, and none from the association have put up any demands. To support their claim, BVG released data that 108 ambulances on Sunday attended and completed 37 calls in the city, with another 36 calls attended till 8pm on Monday.
 
 However, Amol Parmar, president of pilots association, said, “Due to lack of proper maintenance, we, the doctors and patient are putting our lives on risk. Even if something happens to us, the company doesn’t provide us medical insurance or provident fund for our security. We have been living in this condition from last three years, we have had enough.”
 
 Dr Syed Faheem, president of the doctors association, said, “Our association in the city is acting as per orders given by Mumbai association. We have decided to be on indefinite strike till our demands are heard at the branch office. Most of the ambulances on strike here are from inside the city. We are not stopping ambulances located in rural areas and outskirts on compassionate ground. Besides, we are attending extremely severe cases unofficially at all locations.”
 
 The pilots and doctors are demanding BVG should reveal to them the   with the state government, to know on what ground they have been employed. Pawar told TOI, “We have been working for 12 hrs, according to Labour Act, we should not be made to work beyond 8 hrs, and we should be paid and given hike according to the act. We deserve annual leave too.”
 
 A doctor said, “While joining, we were told that we will be given 10% salary hike, but nothing of that sort happened. Ambulance doctors should have accidental insurance of Rs15 to 50 lakh. We should be given a rest room at every ambulance source point. The company should promptly take action whenever we point out some fault in ambulance. The company pressurizes us to travel in faulty ambulances and puts our lives at risk.”
 
 The head of   ( ), Dr Deepak Ukey, said, “The services are still intact. All pilots and doctors have taken their shifts and are doing their duty. All the calls throughout the day have been attended. We haven’t been communicated any demand; officially or unofficially. Instead. if someone comes forward to share their problem we can try to solve it. Knowing about the rumour, we communicated with several pilots and doctors this morning but nothing came out.” 
 
