 It’s fascinating! Every time the Central Board of Film Certification ( ) refuses certification (because the film is “lady oriented” or has a woman masturbating, maybe), society kicks up a stink. Soon, all fire around the issue is extinguished. But, puh-lease! Don’t cry unfamiliarity. These conditions — why it’s not cool when a woman owns her sexuality, why there’re gender labels on art, or why art addressing slut shaming is taken down — have been around for long. 
This International Women’s Day, women and men who’ve confronted societal notions head-on through their work, dialogue with us around the issue. They’ve succeeded notwithstanding regular backlash, but believe that work has only begun.
 
 
 
 CBFC’s reasons for denying certifying ' ' are so preposterous, we rather not speak of them. Yet, one questions society’s problem with women owning their sexuality. With her upcoming film being suggested 11 cuts by the CBFC, actress   says, “The CBFC is not an entity outside society, so there’s a larger problem. The problem lies in the discomfort we as society have with unapologetically-sexually-confident women (like the film’s protagonist), female sexuality and with the desires of women, especially if they are sexual.” 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Jayan K Cherian, director of Malayalam film ' ', that contains a scene of a Muslim woman masturbating, was also refused certification, this being one of the many scenes CBFC objected to. There’s a problem with society’s image of womanhood, believes Jayan. “We can’t tolerate the idea of a woman taking charge of her body, her desire or her pleasure. Society’s idealised image of womanhood is something to be protected and preserved for procreation and man’s pleasure,” he says.
 Meanwhile, think actress  , and most would laud her for taking on bold roles (be it housewife Jyotsna, who enlivens her dull marriage while giving Mandar a sexual experience in Hunterrr, or the bikini-clad Bobby in No Entry – Pudhe Dhoka Aahe). But why call such roles ‘bold’ altogether? Sai says, “I don’t let this labelling bother me, but that’s why my struggle is endless. I want filmmakers and audiences to go beyond what we call bold and look at more interesting characters.” Between Hunterrr and Duniyadari, it’s the former that will gain more attention, she says. “Society hasn’t taught us to be vocal about owning our sexuality, so a woman seeking sexual liberation, is bound to pique public interest,” Sai adds.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 — Jayan K Cherian, on CBFC’s objection to the scene from Ka Bodyscapes, showing a Muslim woman masturbating
 
 
 
 “A guy friend told me that it’s okay if he has casual sex, but if I do, I’m a w***e; I’m trashy.” Responding to this, Symbiosis School of Liberal Arts (SSLA) student Saakshi Rajpurkar started Trash AF. Seeking nude and semi-nude pictures of people who’d been slut shamed, she illustrated and released them on her page, ‘Acrylic Elephant’, captioning them with poems she received. 
 
 Watch:
  
  
 The experiment revealed a far greater concern that society seems to have. “I got e-mails; from men and women who felt bad thinking all these stories were about me,” says Saakshi. Thinking so, a man wrote, that ‘she would be okay, if she stopped having so much sex’. Another group of women said that she could have chosen something less controversial. “Artists face flak for their work, but I received lots of unnecessary concern,” adds Saakshi, who took on these conditions through her art. 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 On Instagram, Saakshi tries to stick to the given guidelines, so that they don’t take down her art. “It’s funny; there are accounts where men have uploaded nudes of their exes. Those stay. But an artist’s uploads of nude artworks get taken down,” says Saakshi.
 NID Ahmedabad design student Sarah Naqvi, whose artwork centres around the female body in relation to image and shaming, agrees with this online hypocrisy. “Instagram raised issues where my work did not fit in with their guidelines. But when someone looks sexually at artwork that uses the biological female, there’s a problem with the gaze, not the artwork,” says Sarah. During media interactions too, Sarah has to filter through her work to provide something that’s “suitable to publish”. It’s like the problem we had with period blood, when artist-poet Rupi Kaur’s post was taken down in 2015. 
 Social media’s double stands notwithstanding, both artists feel that more than authorities, the problem lies with those who report the post. “It’s simple; when a woman bares herself, in someway, she’s taking power away from a man to do that to her; that’s what really troubles people, and society,” says Saakshi.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 Using her experiences as a student of the form, when Bengaluru-based Sharanya Ramprakash explored feminine representation in her Kannada play Akshayambara, through the prism of Yakshagana, an male-dominated folk form of Karnataka, it yielded interesting results. 
 Was she questioned for critiquing an 800-year-old traditional art form, or for being a woman who was doing so? “Interestingly, it was a bit of both. ‘Who are you to critique this tradition? How can you bring questions of gender into it?,’ were the most common responses,” says Sharanya. Akshayambara imagines role reversal in the ‘Draupadi Vastrapaharana’ Yakshagana plot, interpreting gender when a man plays the ‘stree vesha’, while the woman, ‘purusha vesha’. “Gender is so vital, that if somebody breaks the rules, they face dire consequences. Society really looks at gender as non-fluid, where you aren’t allowed to cross borders. What is scary is when this ownership forms the core of our culture,” Sharanya adds. 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Interacting with female-to-male transgenders as part of her project, Sharanya realised how there’s patriarchy there too. “In society and culture, representation of male-to-female transgenders is common. But you rarely hear about the reverse. It’s almost like the perceived ‘downgrade’ (going from being a man to a woman) is possible, but you can’t do the opposite; you can’t become a man,” rues Sharanya.
 Pune-based Arun Bhardwaj, one of the country’s few male belly dancers, questions the labels often assigned to dance as well. He shares, “My videos online receive eight lakh-plus views. Yet, there are posts questioning my sexual orientation, or how a man can do something as feminine as belly dance. I fail to see why art should be assigned gender-specific labels, when art forms seldom validate the performer’s sexuality,” says Arun.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 Actress Emma Watson fired back at critics for questioning her feminist views after she exposed her breasts partially for a recent cover shoot. It “reveals to me how many misconceptions and what a misunderstanding there is about what feminism,” she mentioned in an interview, adding, “Feminism is not a stick to beat other women with. It’s about freedom, it’s about liberation, it’s about equality...”
 
