The light music competition, one of the high-profile events of the state school arts festival, is often considered a launch pad for singing talents.Several singers like Chithra, Sujatha, Arundathi and Minimini who won the light music competitions of school arts fest later went on to become playback singers.
The competition for girls under higher secondary category was notable because of the high standard of performances by almost all the contestants including the renowned playback singer and state film award winner of 2016, Madhusree Narayanan. Many of the candidates who performed at the   were experienced performers of different reality shows and stage shows.
 
 Keerthana S K of Silver Hills HSS Kozhikode, popular through stunning performances in TV reality show Mylanchi and Star Sing er, won the first prize in the event. She sang the popular light music number Sindhu Bhairavi Ragam Moolum. Navaneetha Praveen of THS Ang adippuram who sang Sindhu Bhairavi padum Sandhyakale... won the second prize while Anjala Nasreen of GVSS Kalpetta in  , who sang the song Vaidehi Athmavin Parnasalayil... won the third prize. It is to be noted that the first and second prize winners got the chance to participate in the event through appeal. Anjala, who is also popular through   reality show, had won `A' grade in light music competition in two previous editions of the fest.
 
 Madhusree Narayanan, daughter of musician Ramesh Narayanan, who is a plus two student of Carmel EM Girl's Higher Second ary School, T hir uvananthapuram won an `A' grade for singing Sruthi Sagarathil Neeradi Varum... song by K S Chithra.
 
 Madhusree, who had won the state film award for best singer in 2015, for the song Pashyathi Dishi Dishi of the film `Edavappathy' composed by her father is participating in state school arts festival for the second time after 2013. Commenting on the performances, Madhusree said all contestants sang very well and performances were amazing.
 
 Out of the total of 19 contestants, 16 managed to secure `A' grade. The rest were awarded `B' grade. The judges were of the view that if the singers focus on the literary quality and meaning while delivering the song, it would make the rendering more beautiful.
 
