KOLKATA: A terminally   from the seventh floor of  ,  , early on Saturday. 

 Durgaprasad Chatterjee, a   patient who had been admitted on Thursday, was suffering from depression and had suicidal tendencies, said hospital sources. At 7.30am, Chatterjee strode down the corridor of his ward, unlocked an emergency fire exit next to an elevator door, climbed on to a stool and plunged to his death. He was a resident of Purba Jadavpur.
 
 Seventy-five-year-old Chatterjee had been fleeting in and out of AMRI for treatment over the last eight months. He was an end-stage kidney cancer patient and was depressed. “On Saturday, he was supposed to attend a psychiatric counselling session. He suffered from acute depression and would often talk about killing himself to spare his family members the trouble of caring for him,” said an AMRI official. On Friday night, Chatterjee had refused medicines and had to be goaded to have them. His son-in-law is a senior medic at the hospital.
 
 It was common for cancer patients to suffer from depression, said oncologist  . In fact, depression might set in at the time of diagnosis itself, Sarkar pointed out. “But the disease is certainly not the end of the road even for those at an advanced stage of illness. Hundreds of end-stage cancer patients are leading a meaningful and normal life, despite their disease. There are support groups that encourage interaction, counselling and make them participate in activities that keep them engaged. This is the best option for cancer patients and families should go out of the way to ensure that they don’t turn a recluse,” said Sarkar.
 
 Oncologist Gautam Mukhopadhyay cited the instance of several advanced-stage cancer patients who have not only survived but were leading an active life. “One of the scores of survivors who have been under my treatment is a hospital manager who has recovered completely. She has not only survived the disease but works extremely hard. This proves that with proper counselling and treatment, cancer can be defeated,” said Mukhopadhyay.
 
 Families should make sure they communicate regularly with cancer patients, said psychiatrist J Ram. “Elderly cancer patients often tend to believe they are burdening their families with the cost of treatment. This leads to depression and suicidal tendencies. Counselling and interaction can prevent such deaths,” said Ram.
 
 
