Noida: At least three   in   and   have raised their fees across the board by 10-20% despite a Supreme Court orderagainst   by private unaided schools without the government’s permission in neighbouring Delhi and yearlong protests by aggrieved parents.

 The three institutions — The Khaitan School, Sector 40; Somerville School, Sector 22; and DPS Indirapuram — have not just raised the fees by 10-20% just before admission time but have also collected fees under heads which are not prescribed by the UP government.
 
 Citing the Supreme Court’s order on private unaided schools in Delhi, parents of NCR schools called it ironic that the schools in Noida-Ghaziabad continue to raise the fees without any permission from the education department of the state government. Most schools are also taking annual charges and smart class fees, which are not prescribed by the education department of the UP government.
 
 Parents said that fees should not be hiked since schools in Noida get land at cheaper rates under the land allotment policy of the Noida Authority. “Private schools and hospitals are treated as non-profit organisations and are allotted land at almost one-fifth of the total land rate of commercial property,” a senior official of the Noida Authority told TOI.
 
 According to documents received from parents, while Khaitan School, Sector 40, has raised the fees by 15%, Somerville, Sector 22, has raised it by about 10%.
 
 The former is also taking Rs. 21,840 as annual charges. Telephone calls and emails to Khaitan School authorities by TOI went unanswered. However, in a reply to a parent, the school said the fee has been increased to absorb annual increments, revision of salaries commensurate with recommendations of the 7th Pay Commission, inflation, etc.
 
 Similarly, Somerville has increased the tuition fee by 10% and charges Rs 10,000 as annual charges, parents said. 
 
 Arul Raj, Principal, Somerville School, attributed the fee hike to the 7th Pay Commission.
 
 DPS Indirapuram charges annual fees, smart class fees, tuition fees, computer fees and bus fees and has increased all the charges by over 10% except smart class fee, which has been raised by over 12%.
 
 Vikas Sharma, the administrator, DPS Indirapuram, said that while previously the fee was hiked by about 25%, the management committee of DPS Society decided this year it should be only 10%.
 
 DPS 132 hs increased fees by a few hundred rupees.
 
 
