BENGALURU: Traditionally,   was always a Shanthinagar was always a quiet, residential neighbourhood, close enough to the central business district to reap the benefits of good connectivity and amenities but far enough not to get bogged down by traffic congestion and extended commercialization.

 Today, residents say the locality is on a slow decline over the past five years. Ankit Jain has been a resi dent of this area for the past 20 years. He has moved home twice and now lives near the hockey stadium behind  .
 
 “In the past five years, many shops have come up all over. The roads have not been widened so there is traffic congestion. More commercial buildings with office are coming up,“ he said. Ankit claimed that an apartment complex near his house had violated BBMP regulations and constructed a couple of unauthorised floors.
 
 According to residents, Shanthinagar has transformed into a   with stores selling everything from clothes to  , alongside   and offices. G S Renukaprasad, president, Shanthinagar Residents Welfare Association, says parking was a problem residents face on a daily basis.
 
 “None of the offices which came up in recent years has designated a parking lot of its own. That's why these officegoers park wherever they find space, even if it's in front of somebody's house or on both sides of a narrow road,“ said a resident of Nanjappa Road.
 
 Anil Jain, a resident of 8th Cross, Wilson Garden, agrees.“The road leading up to the bus depot is fully gridlocked from around 5.30pm to 10 pm.Most houses here were constructed 20 years ago. Parking space was never allocated so everyone parks on the narrow road. If you park on one side, then two vehicles cannot go side by side. It's the same story in almost every lane of Wilson Garden,“ he said. To add to the traffic woes, the roads and bylanes are in very bad shape.
 
 They're full of potholes which are full of water when it rains and residents worry about damage to their cars or being splashed with water by speeding vehicles.
 
 Susheela Bansali, a resident of 1st Cross, 5th Main, Laxmi Road said almost all roads are potholed, making it hard to ride a two-wheeler. “The roads are pathetic. Sewage water flows onto the streets when it rains. The main pipes were damaged recently and new ones had to be laid. Sewage started coming onto the streets.   officials inspected it and said it needed to be replaced. But they were not responsive for days. We feel we speak in vain,“ she said.
 
