JAIPUR:   has asked the police department to give   to the wife of a constable who was given compulsory retirement due to mental illness.

 The single bench order of the court followed a letter petition by the wife of the constable.
 
  in her petition said that her husband Bhanwar Lal was compulsorily retired by the department on June 30, 1981 as he was declared mentally unstable. She said he joined the service on February 2, 1970. In the order terminating his service had mentioned that the petitioner’s husband would be paid pension and gratuity as per rules but no pension or gratuity was paid to her husband.
 
 The department said Bhanwar Lal remained in service for 10 years three months and nine days and out of the same, 446 days have been treated as extraordinary leave and therefore the total service was treated as nine years 17 days. As the service was less than 10 years, pension could not be paid.
 
 Amicus curie Hanuman Chaudhary argued that the absence of constable Bhanwarlal could not be said to be professional misconduct as he was suffering from mental problem. Besides, he argued that as per the provisions of Rajasthan Service Rule 1951 as they existed at the time of his compulsory retirement as chapter XX section III, the petitioner was entitled for grant of invalid pension under Rule 228. 
 
 After the government counsel accepted it as a mistake, the court asked the department to provide invalid pension as well as pension for the period of 10 years of service to the petitioner.
 
 Regularize JMC employee: HC
 
 Rajasthan High Court has asked the   (JMC) to regularize an employee who was first appointed on daily basis and later hired on the same post through a placement agency.
 
 The single bench order of the court came on a petition by Hukum Chand. He said, he was first given appointment on daily wages as a helper in 1992. Two years later, the JMC placed him under a placement agency which he challenged in the Labour court but was dismissed. He then approached the high court. The high court asked the JMC to regularize his service.
 
 File FIR against SHO 
 
 Jaipur: Additional Chief metropolitan magistrate court (Railway)   has ordered to register FIR against SHO Surendra Singh of Railway police in the infamous Rhino horn case.
 
 The court directed police superintendent Ajmer to ensure compliance of the order. The main accused in the Rhino horn case Shanker Rao had field a contempt petition in the court that the railways police had fabricated cases against him and made to accept the charge under duress. He has also alleged that the police deliberately destroyed the   footage to hide the truth.
 
 The court on last December 21 had ordered an enquiry by senior officials against the SHO and eight other police officials on the petition by the accused but it was not complied by the railways police.
 
