THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The assembly on Monday saw the   raise a hue and cry over chief minister  's “premature statement“ regarding the alleged abduction and rape of a film actor in Kochi 10 days ago. The opposition leaders alleged that the chief minister's statement has scuttled the ongoing probe into the case. The day's session also saw a sit-in-protest and boycott of the proceedings by the opposition.
Denied discussions on an adjournment motion moved by   on women's safety in the state, including the sexual assault on the actor, the UDF staged a walkout during the question hour and opted for a sit-in-protest during the zero hour. Though the Speaker adjourned the session for half-an-hour, the opposition members decided to boycott the day's proceedings as the assembly proceeded with the discussion on motion of thanks to the Governor's address.
 
 Despite the chief minister's repeated statements on “government's commitment to women's safety“ and against unnecessary politicisation of his comments on the probe into the attack on the actor, the opposition came down heavily on him for “giving an ultimatum to the police not to probe further into a possible conspiracy behind the crime“.
 
 “The chief minister's statement that there's no conspiracy behind the crime has given a wrong message to the police.Women are unsafe under the LDF rule,“ said opposition lead er  , before deciding to stage a protest inside the assembly.
 
 The mayhem began with heated arguments between the ruling and opposition benches as P T Thomas moved the motion questioning the stand of the chief minister, the CPM and the party television channel in the case. Thomas questioned the stand of `Brinda-SreemathiSeema' triumvirate on the issue and the silence of `women's crusader' V S Achuthanandan inside the assembly. This provoked the chief minister to make a counter-attack on the UDF, citing attacks on women during the UDF tenure. “When a woman is attacked, some are happy thinking that they can exploit the situation, while the entire society should be staying firmly behind her to isolate the culprits. The government is committed to ensuring the protection of women, which was evident in the Governor's address that announced a sex offenders register and increased women's representation in the police force,“ Vijayan said.
 
 In response, Chennithala said the state wanted not a register, but a safe environment for women to move freely and independently . “The chief minister has no right to give a final verdict when the probe is at an early stage. His statement, in effect, has helped to sabotage the probe,“ he alleged.
 
 BJP member O Rajagopal also staged a walkout accusing both the LDF and UDF for engaging in arguments, while the attack on actor has put the entire Kerala to shame. “The public opinion is that the government is trying to protect the real culprits, and the LDF government has miserably failed in ensuring women's safety,“ he said.
 
