Bhopal: The Bhopal-based regional head office of National Council for Teacher Education ( ) is likely to shift to Delhi. An official announcement will be made soon, said sources.

 Colleges feel it will make things difficult for them as they would be required to travel to Delhi to get their works done. NCTE, Bhopal has the responsibility of eight states.
 
 For running important courses such as D Ed, B Ed, M Ed, B PEd, M PEd and others, NCTE gives a one-time recognition to its affiliated colleges at the time of its opening. But, in the new process they have decided to make it an annual affair. 
 
 The headquarter is based at New Delhi and four regional committees at Bangalore, Bhopal, Bhubaneshwar and Jaipur to look after its statutory responsibilities. 
 
 To enable the NCTE to perform the assigned functions including planned and coordinated development and initiating innovations in teacher education, the NCTE in Delhi as well as its four regional committees have administrative and academic wings to deal respectively with finance, establishment and legal matters and with research, policy planning, monitoring, curriculum, innovations, co-ordination, library, documentation and others.
 
 On the condition of anonymity, a senior official at NCTE confirmed to TOI that the process of shifting the office is on at the higher level. “A proposal was mooted and it is going on. Official announcement will be made later,” he said pleading anonymity. 
 
 Sources said shifting the office to Delhi was initiated to centralise the working of the council. “As entire work is being converted online, there is no need of any office at the regional level. Hence, it will be shifted to one office in Delhi. Other regional offices will be also shifted,” said an official. 
 
  The NCTE headquarter has been receiving several complaints regarding the inspection which has forced the authorities to handle the functioning from Delhi only. Colleges said that it would be tough for them after the shifting of the office.
 
 
