THANE: The work on a   connecting   and   running parallel to the tracks will soon become a reality with the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development authority (MMRDA) awarding work orders for the same recently. 

 The development comes as a relief for thousands of Vitawa and Digha residents, who used to walk down the tracks to reach the railway station as the other alternative was a circuitous route via Kalwa naka. 
 
 “MMRDA has awarded work orders for the skywalk between Vitawa and Thane railway station. The district guardian minister will perform a bhoomipujan ceremony on Sunday morning,” said MP Shrikant Shinde. 
 
 The 550-metre-long skywalk is being constructed at a cost of Rs 21 crore and will connect   with Vitawa in Kalwa. The proposed skywalk will run parallel to the railway tracks and over the Ulhas river.
 
 An MMRDA official said, the skywalk was planned years ago and was the need of the hour as many people from Kalwa and Digha use the route daily. The development body earlier had developed cold feet over executing the project and concentrated only on major projects. About eight years ago, MMRDA had planned to build 56 skywalks across the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), but it could complete just 39 due to poor response from pedestrians and advertisers. The planning authority had expected to earn significant revenue by selling advertisement rights on skywalks. 
 
 “A notable number of mishaps, mostly run overs, happen on the Thane-Vitawa belt due to people walking along the high density corridor that sees a train passing every four minutes,” said a railway police official. 
 
 Meanwhile, the project has fuelled yet another tussle between the Sena and NCP that seem to be claiming credit for the work. Close on the heels of Sena announcing the bhoomipujan work, NCP MLA Jitendra Awhad alleged the Sena has hijacked the project and said the bhoomipoojan was already done in 2014 by the then state minister Uday Samant. 
 
 The Sena said that the NCP tried to misguide residents by hurriedly holding a bhoomipujan even though all the permissions from the forest department, Thane civic body and others were yet to be secured. 
 
 A notable number of mishaps, mostly run overs, happen on the Thane-Vitawa belt due to people walking along the high density corridor that sees a train passing every four minutes
 
