Having suffered a heart attack and thankfully surviving is not the end. One should consider the further manifestations and understand what symptoms are normal and what not.

 Considering that the patient has an angioplasty, or a stent, they ought to have almost no heart-associated signs.
 
 Symptoms co-relating to   viz. chest pain, shortness of breath, leg swelling must not be neglected and must be addressed immediately.
 
 The most important aims of the recovery process are to gradually restore your physical fitness so you can resume normal activities known as   and to reduce your risk of another heart attack.
 
 Almost all of the patients recuperating from a heart attack will encounter some amount of weakness. Simply getting up, washing up and dressing might debilitate at first. Once you return home, it's usually recommended that you rest and only do light activities, such as walking up and down the stairs a few times a day or taking a short walk. Once you've made a sufficient physical recovery from the effects of a heart attack, it's recommended that you do regular physical activity. Gradually increase the amount of activity you do each day over several weeks. How quickly you can do this will depend on the condition of your heart and your general health.
 
 After a heart attack, it's normal to feel fearful, depressed and anxious. Family members may worry that another heart attack may soon follow. Do not ignore such concerns and try to face them by discussing with a support group or counselor. If the condition persists consult your specialist.
 
 Having a heart attack can be frightening and traumatic, and it's common to have feelings of anxiety afterwards. For many people, the emotional stresses can cause them to feel depressed and tearful for the first few weeks after returning home from hospital. It's important to seek advice, because serious   often don't get better without treatment. Your emotional state could also have an adverse effect on your physical recovery.
 
 Everyone who experiences a heart attack will face different problems and challenges, and any guidance or advice you receive will be tailored to your needs. Reducing your risk of having another heart attack involves making lifestyle changes and taking a long-term course of different medications.
 
 Recovering from a heart attack can take several months, and it's very important not to rush your rehabilitation.
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
