NEW DELHI: Reacting to a recent international report that said India had the highest number of  , scientists from the   said exposure to ozone cannot lead to premature mortality and that the report was only putting India on the spot with “observational data”. 

 In its “State of the Global Air 2017” report, US-based Health Effects Institute (HEI) had analysed the impact on health of air pollution across the globe and found India had the most fatalities due to chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder (COPD) caused by ozone. 
 
 The report said 2.54 lakh deaths occurred in 2015 globally on account of ozone exposure, of which India accounted for over more one lakh and China, 71,900. The report also said India’s record contributed substantially to the 67% rise in ozone attributable COPD deaths since 1990. 
 
 Refuting the findings, Dipankar Saha, head of CPCB’s air lab, said, “Ozone exposure cannot be linked with mortality. If it were true, by now we would have seen a very large number of deaths in the US, which has high ozone concentrations. Our data shows India rarely exceeds the safe standard for the gas.” 
 
 While CPCB shared annual average concentrations of the highly hazardous and reactive gas for 33 cities and 56 stations, though not the daily or monthly concentrations, experts who declined to be quoted said annual concentrations could mask ozone peaks. Ozone is formed when nitrogen dioxide emissions react with volatile organic compounds in hot weather.
 
 Contradicting even the death figures associated with respirable pollutants in the HEI report, Saha said, “It’s an observational study. Our data is robust and comparable because India is the only country that has specified pollution measurement methods and techniques.” S
 
 Scientists TOI spoke to also confirmed that proof of ozone’s link with mortality is only now being studied. “Current research only looks at ozone’s association with worsening COPD, asthma and inflammation and increased risk of premature mortality,” a public health expert pointed out. “The link is strong, but stronger evidence base is necessary before a conclusive declaration can be made.”
 
 Referring to the report, Union environment minister   too had pointed out, “These reports are often based on extrapolations without due scientific validation and there is a need for caution before arriving at any conclusion.” 
 
 The HEI report stated that “over the last 25 years, India experienced a nearly 150% increase in ozone-attributable deaths, while China’s number remained about the same. The ozone-attributable COPD mortality rate decreased by about 1% over this time period in the United States and Indonesia, and remained relatively stable in Russia and the European Union”.
 
 CPCB’s own “Epidemiological study on effect of air pollution on human health in Delhi”, published in 2012, admitted that the combustion of fuels produced outdoor pollutants, including ozone. “There is increasing evidence to suggest that exposure to these pollutants elicits adverse health effects often at levels well below the current WHO guidelines,” the report said.
 
 The “Delhi commitment on multi-sectoral action for addressing air pollution”, the result of a workshop organised by the union environment ministry and WHO, recommends making air pollution impact assessment mandatory for public policies of various ministries. It also advises investment of “additional human and financial resources” to reduce exposure to air pollution.
 
 
