ALLAHABAD: From middle age women stepping out from the shadows of their husbands, to a national spokesperson of the ruling party at the Centre, at least 10 candidates from prominent political parties are joining electoral politics for the first time in Allahabad. 

 The pattern of selection of these candidates reveals that   and Bahujan Samaj Party have banked on winnable candidates while   and   Party have trusted young women power. 
 
 All parties seem to have studied the caste combination in detail before choosing contestants. 
 
 Among the newcomers is Richa Singh. First woman president of  , Richa had became the first choice of SP president   after she sat on indefinite fast to stop the entry of BJP firebrand leader Yogi Adityanath in the university in 2015. 
 
 Months after joining SP, she has been given the responsibility to take on BJP's national spokesperson and party stalwart Siddharth Nath Singh. 
 
 The party leader, also contesting for the first time in Allahabad, had been in-charge of Andhra Pradesh and co-incharge of West Bengal and is being considered in some sections as a probable face as BJP's chief ministerial candidate. 
 
 Another novice of mainstream politics is Nidhi Yadav on whom CM Akhilesh Yadav had relied. The LLB and MBA youth has no political background. Despite this she has been pitted in Handia constituency against BJP-Apna Dal (S) alliance candidate, Pramila Tripathi.
 
 Pramila, also a new entrant, is wife of former BSP cabinet minister Rakeshdar Tripathi and has been pitted against Nidhi Yadav.
 
 BJP too has banked on a new face, Neelam Karwariya from Meja seat. A postgraduate, Neelam is wife of former MLA Udhaibhan Karwariya, who is in jail. 
 
 Others contesting for the first time include Ashok Gautam (BSP) and Suresh Verma (Congress) from Bara constituency. Amit Srivastava from BSP is nowadays canvassing hard to give a tough fight to sitting MLA from Congress, Anugrah Narayan Singh and Harshavardhan Bajpayee (BJP) from Allahabad North. 
 
 
