KOTKAPURA: Seeking votes for the   in Punjab on Sunday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi invoked the issue of security threat from neighbouring Pakistan and asked people to elect a “strong government in the border state”. 

 In his second rally in the state since polls were declared, the PM said, “The elections in Punjab are not just to determine the future of the state, but are equally important for the future of India. Punjab being on the border, the neighbouring country remains on lookout for opportunities to strike. 
 
 “Punjab is very important to safeguard the security of India as the state has to suffer through misadventure by the neighbouring country. We need a strong government. This capability is only with Parkash Singh Badal.” 
 
 In the past year, Pakistan-sponsored terrorists twice sneaked into Punjab and carried out terrorist attacks at Dinanagar and Pathankot airbase where security forces and citizens were killed. Also, to assuage hurt Sikh sentiments following several incidents of desecration of religious scriptures last year, Modi promised probe into the cases. 
 
 “The CBI is investigating the cases of desecration in Punjab. The agency is working to identify the culprits and those responsible for it will be given stringent punishment,” he said addressing a SAD-BJP rally at the grain market in Kotkapura. 
 
 Targeting Congress, the PM accused it of branding Sikh youths as terrorists during and after the era of militancy. “With it, wherever Sikhs used to go in India or abroad, they were seen as terrorists,” he said. 
 
 Attacking rival parties, Modi said, “The outsiders and those deeply indulged in living luxurious life cannot provide a stable and strong government in Punjab which could resist the misadventure of neighbours.” 
 
 Earlier taking on AAP, Modi said, “AAP has even raised question mark on the sincerity of the Election Commission of India (ECI).   thinks that ECI want that his party (AAP) to lose.” Modi further added it is not because of the ECI but due to sheer failure in running the Delhi government that loss of AAP was inevitable in Punjab and Goa.
