RANCHI: Rekha Munda of   in Ranchi is not convinced if she would be a beneficiary of the increased allocation of fund under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA). It has been difficult for her to find a job because most of the work taken under the scheme was related to earth work and digging of farm ponds. She is one among the 37% of the state's women labour population who somehow got work under   when most of them were related to earth-cutting. 

 In the budget proposals tabled in Parliament on Wednesday, participation of women was increased from 48% to 55%. "We expect that suggestions of gram sabha will be considered while drawing plans this year. If the focus remains on construction of farm ponds alone, most of the women will not be able to get a job," she said. 
 
 Rekha and several other women are often counselled by activists working for better implementation of MGNREGA.   of Jharkhand NREGA Watch said that during a recent visit to villages close to Ranchi, they found most women labourers sitting idle because their husbands moved to the city area for working in the real estate sector. "These women cannot take up work of farm ponds unless there is a male member in the family for digging work, which is tedious and tough for them to take up independently," he said, adding that women are mostly engaged in head-loading.
 
 Balram, advisor to commissioner appointed by the   in a case related to food for work, welcomed the decision to increase MGNREGA annual funds to Rs 48,000 crore. 
 
 "It's a big leap as central funds never crossed the Rs 40,000 crore mark," he said, adding this would mostly benefit the backward states where scope of human labour is more. 
 
 He however sounded sceptical about implementation of the scheme properly if there was ample money. "We have observed delay in wage payments and fake muster rolls in the past, when there was a fund crunch. There was a need to plug in the loopholes," he said.
 
 Spending in Jharkhand has been poor under the scheme. Sources in the government said around Rs 1,100 crore of the total fund of Rs 1,800 crore meant for the state for 2016-17 has been spent.
 
 Ritika Kher, visiting professor of economics at the Delhi-based Jawaharlal Nehru Uiversity, said despite the 'highest ever' allocation under MGNREGA, the government's announcement was disappointing.
 
  "There has been a huge surge in demand for work under the scheme and, given the current rate of inflation, the increase in allocation would become insignificant," she said, adding that the finance minister failed to mention that the revised estimate for MGNREGA was Rs 47,499 crores in the previous financial year.
 
