AHMEDABAD: Vancouver, located on the Canada-US border, has emerged as a major infiltration point for   from Gujarat who want to make a fortune. During interrogation of an arrested travel agent, Bipin Patel of Kadi, it came to light that apart from the three families from Gandhinagar, Kalol and Ranip, he had sent 10 others from different parts of the state to Canada who later crossed over to the US from Vancouver.

 According to SOG officials, the agent had   of a Muslim family based in Mumbai to send the three families to Canada and later arranged their sneak into the US. 
 
 “The Muslim family was totally unaware of the scam as their passports were with their agent in Mumbai during the time the three families flew to Canada,” added the officials.
 
 Patel said that he had sent a family of three — Mitesh Patel his wife Dolly Patel and their five-year-old daughter — on the same forged passports to Canada.
 
 “However, the three were detained at the Montreal airport by the immigration authorities and kept in custody for about 20 days. Patel along with his wife and daughter were later freed. The three then crossed over to the US from Vancouver and are currently underground in the US,” said assistant commissioner of police (SOG) B C Solanki.
 
 SOG officials said the other seven had gone to Canada on a tourist visa and later crossed over to the US. “We are gathering their details to write to the CID crime (Gujarat) for issuing a red corner notice for all illegal immigrants who had crossed over to the US from Canada and were sent by Bipin Patel,” added Solanki.
 
 Patel and many others like him have a common contact in Montreal who manages the crossover to the US from Vancouver. “We will also alert the Canadian immigration department about the details which have emerged during the probe,” Solanki added.
 
 The scam came to light only after police received a complaint from   (FRRO) of the bureau of immigration about the misuse of passport from   where three people travelled to Montreal in August, September and October last year.
 
 SOG officials said they are also in touch with Mumbai police to track the agent with whom the Mumbai-based Muslim family had kept their passports. “We suspect that Bipin Patel could have procured their passport details from the Mumbai agent,” added an SOG official.
 
