KOCHI: Indian women’s team captain   knows she will never be able to lay her hands on a World Cup trophy. It was a trophy that seemed within her grasp until the lower-order Indian batting imploded in spectacular fashion against England in the final at Lord’s on Sunday. The 34-year-old did well to keep her emotions in check at the post-match presentation ceremony but admits that she broke down during the team meeting after the final. A day after the heartbreaking loss, the Indian captain shares the disappointments and joys of a memorable World Cup campaign with TOI. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 No, it’s not even 24 hours. The Cup was ours for the taking but we couldn’t complete that final step. It will take a while for me to make peace with it. Maybe, it was not written in our destiny.
 
 
 
 
 If I knew the answer to that I would probably be speaking to you in a much better frame of mind. After the loss of two early wickets, we were cruising with two partnerships that Punam (Raut) built with Harman ( ) and Veda (Krishnamurthy). But then we lost our way. I had my hopes till Shikha (Pandey) got run out. I think it was the inexperience of playing on such a big stage on such a big occasion. Cricket experts always talk about keeping things simple. But what I have figured out in my long career is that the hardest thing to do in a crisis is to keep things simple. We made mistakes but I won’t blame anyone .
 
 
 
 
 Certainly. Things are better for women’s cricket in terms of facilities since BCCI took us under their wing in 2007. We had sports psychologists taking classes for us during camps. But what we need is a sports psychologist who can be with the team throughout. I am sure it’s something that can be looked at and it would be of immense help to the girls.
 
 
 
 
 I saw some weird stuff written about my run out on social media. Actually, what happened was my spike got stuck on the pitch. Punam called me for a run and I responded. Before I reached the half way, this thing (spike getting stuck) happened and I don’t think the TV cameras captured it. I couldn’t push myself hard and couldn’t even make an effort to dive. I was helpless. I was gutted.
 
 
 
 
 That’s what I am most happy about. People have seen the quality of the games and have started appreciating us. Women’s cricket is now being seen in a different light. It’s just not just cricket lovers but even random people are acknowledging us now. Broadcast of women’s matches has made a huge difference. People are talking about us on social media. I have been playing for over 20 years now but I have never experienced such a big following.
 
 
 
 
 I would think so. You learn from failures and even Sunday’s defeat is a huge learning curve. This team is only going to get better from now on. We have experienced campaigners like Harmanpreet, Veda, Punam and they should see to it that they pass on the experience to younger girls. It’s their duty to mould the youngsters after Jhulan and I leave the stage. I really like the way Harman has shaped up. She is showing the responsibility of carrying the team along. I think the experience of playing BBL in Australia was of immense help to her. Something on the lines of an IPL for women cricketers in India would be beneficial.
 
 
 
 
 It’s not about a man or a woman. It’s a national team and we need to have the best coach and support staff helping us out. Our present coach Tushar Arothe has done a good job so far. He has made a huge difference. So I think we should stick with him now. Having said that, if good women coaches come along, then we should consider them too.
 
 
 
 
 Well, I have not given it a thought. It depends on the next series and when it is going to be. And it’s not me alone who decides on who leads the country. But as captain, I have got great support from the players, the coaches, the BCCI, the selectors and the former players. I have enjoyed that responsibility and that has helped me grow as a person.
 
