 is the new feel-good as it holds the answers to many health problems

 Bespoke facialists and aestheticians are a big thing internationally. There are trained biologists devising face treatments for Hollywood stars and holistic skin therapists dishing out energy healing facials where they massage with mantras. They believe, every facialist, massage therapist and nail technician who touches you is working on your energy. Facials are good for your skin, but a facial done inside out is an exercise for your mind and body. 
 
 
 
 The first sign of anything wrong in our body shows up on our face. The energy field of the face represents the entire body, so anything we do to rejuvenate the face works for our brain and body. It goes beyond exfoliation – one can gain increased blood circulation, improved nutrient delivery and stress relief. “A good facial repairs and produces cells and helps release happy hormones in the body which, in turn, improves sleep quality,” says Dr Apratim Goel, dermatologist and laser surgeon. 
 
 
 
 New-age facials can work on your nervous, lymphatic, circulatory and endocrine systems. “A thorough facial can kick-start the lymphatic drainage system which helps in eliminating toxins from the body and reducing stress,” says Dr Mohan Thomas, cosmetic surgeon. Reduced stress brings down the BP and also improves blood circulation. Most people doze off in between facials – a sign of stress relief. The health benefits of facials even extend into the nasal passages. The combination of steam and gentle massage can relieve chronic congestion.
 
 
 
 Celebrity facialist Nichola Joss, who works with Keira Knightley and Kate Moss, famously incorporates buccal massage (undertaken inside the mouth). The gums, cheek muscles, soft tissue and skin are massaged in a rhythmic uniform fashion so as to improve the muscles of the lips, jaw bones, mandible joints and cheeks. “These areas are most tense when a person is sad, angry or stressed,” says Dr Thomas. It’s a non-invasive anti-aging treatment.
 
 
 A facial can build your immunity by filtering out toxins and keeping your lymphatic system healthy
 
 
