AMRITSAR: Even as 21 ‘sabat surat’ (uncut hair) Sikh leaders completed five-day religious atonement pronounced upon them by the SGPC-appointed jathedars on Sunday for violating the 2007   edict, their acceptance in the panth remains a question as they have also been summoned at the Akal Takht by Sarbat Khalsa-appointed jathedars on May 8 in the same case.

 “We have obeyed the orders of the Akal Takht and will not appear before anyone else,” said former minister and Akali leader Sikander Singh Maluka while talking to TOI on Sunday.
 
 On April 17, SGPC-appointed jathedars had pronounced religious atonement upon Sikh leaders who had approached Dera Sacha Sauda in violation of Akal Takht directives to seek Dera’s support ahead of the recently concluded assembly elections. The SGPC’s sub-committee constituted to investigate the role of Sikh leaders had categorized Sikh leaders into ‘sabat surat’ and ‘patit’ (apostate). The sub-committee had identified 21 Sikh leaders as ‘sabat surat’ and 18 as ‘patit’. ‘Sabat surat’ Sikh leaders were given five days religious punishment while the others were asked to perform 10 days service at their respective local gurdwaras.
 
 Maluka said that there was some confusion about the Akal Takht edict. “We had thought that the edict was only against Dera chief and not his followers but we apologised and accepted Akal Takht’s punishment,” he said. On the other hand, Sarbat Khalsa-appointed jathedar of   said that: “Panth knows who represents their sentiments.” 
 
 Alleging that the SGPC appointed jathedars on the recommendation of the SAD, he said in recent past former SGPC-appointed jathedar of Takht Damdama Sahib Giani Gurmukh Singh had made it amply clear as to how they were always under political pressure for taking decisions on religious issues. “All Sikh leaders have to appear at Akal Takht on May 8, they have already been declared ‘tankhaiya’ (guilty of religious misconduct) and we will pronounce religious atonement upon them,” he stated. 
 
 In recent past Haryana   president Jagdish Singh Jhinda had set a precedent by appearing before Sarbat Khalsa-appointed jathedars, that too after completion of the religious sentence pronounced upon them by SGPC-appointed jathedars. 
 
