PANAJIi: The slaughter of animals is slowly picking up at the Goa meat complex at  , after various requirements of modernization and sanitation have been met with by traders.

 Beef ban in 2014-15 had led to a brief decrease in slaughter of cattle in Goa (78 animals) following which traders sourced their meat from Karnataka. Cattle was therefore slaughtered in Belagavi, meat of which was then brought to the state for traders to sell locally. Things seemingly fell into place when the ban was lifted, however renovation works at the meat complex again restricted operations to Eid until the premises was reopened in May 2016. The capacity of the complex is 150 animals per day.
 
 “All animals by private parties are brought to the complex and only then slaughtered. This certifies the meat is hygienic for consumption,” said Rajaram Naik, assistant director of animal husbandry department.
 
 In 2016-17, till March, 4,987 animals were slaughtered at the complex compared to 497 in 2015-16.
 
 “We cannot see this as an increase in numbers because modernization work at the complex restricted slaughter activities only to qurbani meat for Eid in Goa,” said Uday Pednekar of the Goa meat complex.
 
 Figures shared by the complex show a drastic drop in the number of slaughters compared to five years earlier. To elaborate, in 2012-13, 15,368 cattle were slaughtered at the complex compared to 4,987 in 2016-17. Meat traders attribute reasons for this to a drop in clientele and alternative sources of beef, besides the brief ban on the meat.
 
 “A significant amount of our Catholic clientele (our primary customers) have moved to the UK and other countries in the last five years. Among the Muslims, some health conscious clients prefer to avoid beef. The consumption pattern is still there but not as much as it used to be,” said Panaji-based beef trader Hussain Khatib.
 
 President of the meat traders association, Manna Bepari, said, “Strict rules implemented by the complex has stopped many traders, notorious for selling unhygienic meat, from bringing their livestock to the complex. There is a drop in the number of animals coming in for slaughter.”
 
 He added that many cold storage owners are still sourcing their meat from Karnataka. “The cattle doesn’t go through health parameters and is slaughtered in unhygienic conditions. There is no veterinary doctor onsite either, thus the quality of such meat is in question,” he said.
 
