Kolkata: Residents of 42, Strand Road and 2, Raja Woodmunt Street returned to their houses on Wednesday after a brief stay at a MG Road hotel. 

 A collective sigh of relief was hard to miss as they stepped into their respective homes. That not a single crack had developed on their buildings even as the tunnel-boring machine passed below was enough for them to feel ecstatic. The creases on their forehead gave way to a wide grin on their faces. The younger generation was busy discussing their ‘weeklong picnic’ at the hotel.
 
 “We really enjoyed our stay at the hotel. We have been staying in this building for so many years, in separate rooms. But at the hotel, we stayed like one big family. We got everything served hot on the table. It was a like dream,” said   Dubey, a third-year student who returned to her second-floor home of 42, Strand Road with his parents.
 
 Shreya was all praise of Kolkata   Rail Corporation ( ), the executing agency of East-West Metro, and Afcons, its tunnel construction agency, who did everything to make the hotel stay a memorable one. “Those of us who used go to school and college early in the morning, long before the hotel kitchen got functional, Afcons officials organized milk, bread and fruits for us,” said Shreya.
 
 Manju Dubey, who was fasting on the day of Guru Purnima, found milk, fruits, fruit juice for breaking at the end of the day. “We are overwhelmed by the promptness with which they took care of small issues of everyday household,” said Manju. 
 
 “Even today, the hotel served us breakfast and lunch before KMRC vehicles came to pick up us. I was bit tense about our house. But otherwise, I was relieved from the daily chores,” said Arati Sonkar, a resident of 2, Raja Woodmunt Street.
 
 However,   was a bit worried as the 11 members of his family would have to move to the hotel again on July 22, when the second TBM passes right below the building. “We have not been told about the stability of this building. My family members are extremely worried whether we would at all be able to return to this house,” he said.
 
 With the residents, all the traders were also allowed to return their business establishments. “The only takeaway for us from this trouble we took is perhaps the strengthening of the building. The grouting they did extended the life of the building by 100 years, which owner of these building don’t want at all. They want the building to crumble so that they could build a modern multi-storeyed buildings,” said  , a trader of 42, Strand Road.
 
