NEW DELHI: Auto manufacturers may have to contribute to the government coffer for selling BS-III vehicles after March 31, when BS -IV compliance comes into into force, as the   said on Friday that the companies should compensate for aggravating the pollution crisis by selling vehicles with  .

 A bench of Justices Madan B Lokur and Deepak Gupta said the Centre had spent thousands of crores of rupees to upgrade technolo gy to produce BS-IV fuel and the companies could not be allowed to frustrate the government's initiative to check increasing pollution levels by selling around 8.2 lakh BS-III vehicles which they are holding in stocks.
 
 As Bharat Stage IV (BSIV) emission norms are to come into force from April 1,   had rushed to the court seeking permission to allow them to dispose of their stocks. They contended that they had stopped  .
 
 Senior advocate Harish Salve and lawyer Aprajita Singh, who are assisting the court as amicus curiae, told the bench that the companies were well aware that BSIV norm would kick in from April 1 but they kept manufacturing vehicles with older technology . They urged the court to ban manufacture and sale of BS-III vehicles as the Centre had spent Rs 18000-20000 crore for producing cleaner fuel.
 
 The court said there are three options available--to take a drastic step to ban registration of vehicles or allow its registration but ban plying of such vehicles from major cities or ask the companies to pay some additional cost for creating health hazards and reimburse the Centre which spent enormous money in upgrading fuel standard. The court said it would take a call on the issue on March 27.
 
 Complying with the apex court's order, Society of Indi an Automobile Manufacturers (SIAM) produced data on manufacturing and sale of BS-III vehicles on monthly basis from January 2016. It informed the court that the companies were holding a stock of 8,24,275 such vehicles which included 96,724 commercial vehicles, 6,71,308 two wheelers, 40,048 three wheelers and 16,198 cars.
 
 The manufacturers contended that companies were allowed to sell their stocks with old emission norms when new technology was brought in force twice in past. They said on the previous two occasions when the industry switched to BSII and BS-III in 2005 and 2010, older vehicles were allowed to be registered till the stocks lasted and only manufacturing of vehicles with older emission standards was not allowed.
 
