Cleared/Anil

 Coimbatore: A team from the Central government, comprising agriculture, home and finance ministry officials, visited the district on Wednesday to take stock of the   situation and also assess damage to standing crops.
 
 Dheeraj Kumar, managing director of Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board (TWAD) and Vijay Rajmohan and Santhosh Kumar of the   told reporters that they met farmers in Tirupur and Coimbatore and found that the areas were badly hit by drought.
 
 “The situation is very bad and there is drought situation as mentioned by the state government. We will submit a report to a high-level committee within seven days and it will cross-verify the report and release compensation within a few months,” Santhosh said.
 
 Farmers took up their issues with the committee members and described their deplorable situation. They said the current compensation of Rs3,000 per acre wasn’t enough when they suffer a loss of more than Rs1 lakh per acre. “The compensation is very less. We want a permanent solution to this issue. We request the Centre to implement the 50-year-old delayed Athikadavu-Avinashi project to enhance the groundwater level in the area. Stuck between Bhavani and Noyyal, the area is completely dependent on rain for agriculture. With groundwater levels going down to 1,500ft, we are desperate and helpless. If the project comes through, the groundwater level will be better in the region and it will help agriculture,” said Padamavathi, a farmer from Muthugoundenpudur.
 
 The officials listened to their demands and promised to take necessary action. The farmers were, however, disappointed at the team’s hurried visit. They had to cover the district in half-a-day. “I wanted to take them to my farm to show them the dried up bore well but they said they did not have time,” said S Thangarasu.
 
 There are 295 revenue villages in Coimbatore district and the cultivable land for grain alone account for nearly 60,000 hectares, of which 18,104 hectares was badly hit by drought. The team said the compensation demanded for Coimbatore alone was nearly Rs500 crore. “A team had been assessing the damage and have compiled a ground truth report for 26 revenue villages. It has been sent to the Centre. We have also videographed the entire fields and uploaded details in the Central government application, Bhuvan FS,” said Mohammed Iqbal, deputy director, agricultural department.
 
 The team also visited Kunnathur village, 15km away from Coimbatore, located in Annur Taluk. Farmers here mostly cultivate cholam, turmeric, pulses, coconut, sugarcane and other vegetables. “Of the 11378 hectares in Annur taluk, 70% of the land was drought-hit. We receive 555.6mm of rainfall every year but this year, we received only 155mm of rainfall,” said K Sundara Vadivel of Annur Block.
 
 The state government had on January 16 requested the Centre to sanction Rs39,565 crore from the National Disaster Response Fund towards drought relief measures.
 
 
