The stream of classical music and dance continues to flow through the city sabhas, but outside, the villages of TN -from Kancheepuram to Vizhupuram -are getting set for a season of Kattaikoothu festivals. And this time round, it isn't just the costumes that are bold but the themes too, which are swinging between mythology and Section 377.

 Apart from its hour-long and sometimes all-night long therakoothu performances, the   in Punjarasantankal, Kancheepuram, being hosted by the Kuttu Kalai Kudam, will also feature the production `Queen-size' by Delhibased choreographer Mandeep Raikhy , created in response to Section 377 which criminalises homosexuality. The dance production explores the intimacy between two men.
 
 “This is the 26th edition of the annual kattaikoothu festival to celebrate nual kattaikoothu festival to celebrate the power of theatre, music and dance,“ says Hanne M de Bruin, who along with her husband P Rajagopal, founded Kuttu Kalai Kudam to promote and contemporise kattaikoothu and ensure sustainable careers for its professional performers. “ All events are free and accessible to everyone. They are meant to create a greater awareness of TN's prominent theatre, and offer audiences access to performing art forms that usually do not travel to rural areas. We are adding other productions like `Queen-Size' too to give people variety at the festival,“ adds Bruin, originally from Holland. While the schedule of events is posted on the organisation's website, the finale is on February 18.
 
 “We know that koothu will not be shown in a Chennai sabha during the Margazhi season, so we want to give people a chance to see the variety and complexity of kattaikoothu with a short drive out of the city,“ says Bruin.
 
 With the festival receiving zero corporate funding, it is performers and patrons who are getting the show on the road. Rajagopal and Bruin, for instance, have decided to sponsor one of the kattaikoothu performances as a 30th wedding anniversary gift to their friends and families.
 
 For his performance in   in Villupuram district on January 14, therukoothu performer and advocate of the dance form, T   is hoping his “name and fame“ as art director for the 2016 Rajinikanth-starrer Kabali will bring in a larger number of spectators. “The goal is to revive interest in therakoothu. My father was a performer and I perform too when I get a break from production design,“ says 38-year-old Ramalingam, who is the “star“ attraction at the Vizhupuram festival, which is otherwise being performed by vil lage members. Though his January performance is from mythology, Ramalingam says there are more con temporary-themed thera koothu performances too, citing the example of the one based on Madurai Veeran, which is the story of a Dalit man marry ing an upper caste woman. Ramalingam has also tried to in corporate ele ments of the art form in the film `Vaarayo Vennila', slated for a 2017 release.
 
 Chennai too will get its share of therakoothu as a troupe headed by G Suresh will perform at the Kapaleeswa rar temple on Sunday. “We travel all over the state to perform, doing about 175 shows a year in a bid to revive the art form. But we usually perform in villag es. This is the second time we have been called in to Chennai to perform for the Mylapore festival,“ says Suresh, whose troupe will perform their version of Arjuna's Penance between 8:30pm and 10:30pm on January 8. “Maybe taking centrestage in a city will help grow the art form.“
 
 
