Are they not your hands, 

 You are looking at them as
 
 if they are somebody else’s. 
 
 I am only looking at my hands
 
 as if they are somebody else’s, 
 
 What is there in looking at
 
 mine as mine". 
 
 Perhaps the above lines, a rough translation of Vannadasan’s poem, ‘Your hands’, summarise his approach to storytelling.
 
 Vannadasan creates in his stories an aesthetic distance from the characters he knows very intimately, and sets out to narrate their personal world through a loving attention to external details. His latest short story collection ‘Oru Siru Isai’ (A Short Music) which won the Sahitya Akademi Award for Tamil in 2016 is the pinnacle of an achievement perfecting his style of storytelling. 
 
 In all the fifteen stories in the collection, Vannadasan names his characters either by their kin relationships or by their nicknames. A person named Gandhi is never referred to as mere Gandhi but always as Gandhi Annan. Similarly, Mookkamma is always Mookkamma Atchi (grandmother). Thus, drawing the reader into an intimate space of storytelling, Vannadasan sets out to sketch the characters as if they are in a painting. As his pen name — Vannadasan meaning a devotee of colours — he invites the attention of the reader to the intricate and colourful details of everyday life. Nothing escapes his observant eye. From the black polyethene cover used for selling fish to the purple leaf that is used for packing curd rice, Vannadasan captures them in their delicate strokes so that they contribute to the mood and the theme of the story. 
 
 He surprisingly never attempts to describe the inner psychological turmoil or the thoughts of his characters. For Vannadasan, everything is there out in the open as acts, interactions, gestures, and spoken words. The interiority of his characters emerges from the aesthetically distanced intimacy. Vannadasan is never judgmental. In the short story, ‘Kaniyana Pinnum nuniyil Poo’ (A flower at the edge even after becoming a fruit) the narrator goes to buy pomegranates and encounters another man holding the hands of a girl with wide eyes. The narrator’s daughter, Dinakari pulls him away and tells him that the stranger was a thief caught snatching the chain of a lady. The narrator refuses to judge the stranger and requests him to choose the best pomegranates for him. He says that at that moment the stranger is only a buyer of guavas and he himself a buyer of pomegranates.
 
 The significance of things in temporary settings and people in contexts is something familiar to Vannadasan’s short stories and the observant poetry he writes under the name Kalyanji. In one of his Facebook posts, Vannadasan explicated how his short stories grow out of his poems. He also said that he is among many other poets who drink from the same magical river that runs its course through their bodies and landscape. In the short story, ‘Oru Paravaiyin Vazhvu’( The story of a bird) he uses a line from Piramil’s famous poem, ‘Epic’ to narrate the life of Janaki. 
 
 Vannadasan who started writing in 1962, has published 12 short story collections, one novella, five collections of poems and a collection of essays. Oru Siru Isai definitely marks a departure in the glorious literary career of Vannadasan in a sense that it deals with themes such as old age, unrequited love, death, loss, and sacredness of memories. Vannadasan excels in conveying the untold. Many literary critics would point out that he shares Tamil literary heritage passed on by masters of modern literature such as Ku Pa Rajagopalan and T Janakiraman and Vannadasan’s excellent narration is only paralleled by Sa Kandasamy.
 
 However, it is increasingly recognised that Vannadasan has created a unique style of writing like Mouni and La Sa Ramamirtham. For a writer who is both popular and literary for more than four decades, it is strange that critical acclaim and the Sahitya Akademi Award have come to Vannadasan only now. This may also be the historic time when we have come to understand the value of tenderness, romantic inclination and the purity of human spirit Vannadasan espouses. Most importantly Thamairavaruni is the perennial river that runs magically through Vannadasan’s writings and if at all there is one word that would characterise Vannadasan and his writings it would be, ‘moisture’. And that is what we need in the dry weather and landscape of Tamil Nadu.
 
 (The author is a folklorist and scholar)
 
 Email your feedback to southpole.toi@timesgroup.com
 
 
