NAGPUR: After justice Ravi Deshpande, now its turn of two more judges at Nagpur bench of   to flay lawyers for not being attentive during final hearing cases.

 Justice   and Justice Rohit Deo conveyed “dissatisfaction” about lawyers on not being attentive during final hearing cases. A notice in this regard was also published in the causelist of   (HCBA) that is available on its website.
 
 “A few matters in which legal aid panel lawyers appear, are listed before the courts for final disposal. Members are therefore, requested to be attentive in all the final hearing matters, so that proper assistance is rendered to the courts,” the notice mentioned. It was published on behalf of judges by HCBA secretary Prafulla Khubalkar.
 
 Last year in June, justice Deshpande warned the lawyers of imposing heavy cost if they were found underprepared during arguments. Citing past instances, he stated that the lawyers appeared before courts without preparation on facts and law, many a times. He further directed the lawyers not to seek adjournments of cases.
 
 According to court officials, justice Deo had criticised this tendency of lawyers skipping final hearing matters while delivering one of its verdicts. The judges had also called on the HCBA president Anil Kilor a couple of times for discussing the issue.
 
 However, HCBA’s new team, like its predecessors, defended the lawyers while passing the buck on late instructions received from the judges and registry. “Most of these cases are related to legal aid which somehow couldn’t be listed in the causelist as instructions arrived after 7pm. Subsequently, the lawyers couldn’t get any intimation and didn’t attend hearings,” Khubalkar said.
 
 He further clarified that it was difficult for the lawyers to contact the clients of final hearing cases, some of which came up for hearing after a long gap of ten years. “The lawyers can’t plead without contacting the clients. They also need to verify whether the clients are alive or dead.”
 
 The officials made a startling revelation that lawyers were disinterested in the pleading old cases, primarily on account of their fees issue. Most of the times, poor clients can’t pay exorbitant fees charged by the lawyers and, therefore, they skip such hearings. Earlier, the courts used to dismiss such cases in default where lawyers couldn’t appear, but   had stopped this practice while directing the subordinate judiciary to dispose of all cases only on the basis of merits.
 
 Hailing the judges move to flay the lawyers, social activist Anil Wadpalliwar, who had filed many PILs, accused the lawyers of not performing their statutory duties enshrined by the law to help the clients. “They’re termed as friends of litigants. But due to their non-cooperation, the pendency of cases is piling up regularly. Poor clients arrive at Nagpur bench from far-flung areas like Buldhana, and what’s the point if cases are being continuously adjourned. Ultimately, the common man suffers due to such attitude of lawyers and even the judiciary suffers,” he said.
 
