NAGPUR: Newly-appointed Vice Chancellor of   (YCMOU)   on Sunday said that the university will offer free courses to   of the farmers across the state.

 Vayunandan was speaking at a press conference organized by the  . He is on a tour across the eight regional centres in the state.
 
 “The farmers in the Nashik belt have been successful because they are well informed about their produces and are able to market them too. But those in the   have been struggling to do so. If farmers here would be equally informed, it would only help them. I hope some of the courses offered by YCMOU would aid them. Hence, we will offer free courses to farmer suicide-hit families across Maharashtra,” he said.
 
 He added that society relevant courses like for cancer patient care, certifying prior knowledge of electricians and cobblers too are being done.
 
 Vayunandan came down heavily on University Grants Commission (UGC) over its decision regarding distant education.
 
 “The UGC people have no understanding of distant education concept. In universities, we have a full fledged management of more than 20 officer-bearers. A retired person becomes its (UGC) secretary and starts issuing unnecessary directions. They had issued a circular about the online exams shouldn’t be conducted but they didn’t know it was stopped long back,” he said.
 
 He said many distant courses like BA (Army), BA (Police) etc which were discontinued will be restarted soon.
 
 On initiatives by YCMOU, he said lots of innovation are going on in the institution. “One is learn and earn. We have technical courses like BBA in Nashik where students are working and studying. So by the time they complete their degrees, they have relevant experience also,” he said.
 
 On infrastructure, he said, “In open system, we depend on outside infrastructure and colleges. So there has been a gap between study centres and regional centre. We are trying to reform the system.”
 
 He said many times students grievances don’t get addressed because of the gap so regular interaction with study centres will be done.
 
 Village adoption too is in the works and YCMOU would be adopting Kelapura in Wardha district. Besides this, there are several issues affecting the smoothly functioning of the open university. The biggest among them is key posts lying vacant and study material. Vayunandan said vacancies would be filled up soon while a statute to hire specialized people will be framed.
 
 YCMOU registrar Dinesh Bonde, director Prakash Antkare, and associate consultant Arvind Bondre were present.
 
 Meanwhile, Union surface transport minister Nitin Gadkari flagged off two vans launched by YCMOU to create awareness about cashless transaction in villages.
 
