LUCKNOW: BJP chief Amit Shah brought the clamour for Ram temple into sharper focus, promising to push for a quicker Constitutional resolution to the dispute and emphasising that the saffron issue could go “hand in hand” with development.

 Speaking to the media at the release of the party manifesto for the UP election here on Saturday, Shah underlined that if elected, BJP would issue a white paper on the reported Hindu exodus from restive Kairana. He also unveiled populist promises such as farm loan waivers and laptops with free data. Free education for girls up to graduation and for boys up to Class XII have also been promised.
 
 Shah also said a BJP government in the state would be willing to implead itself in the ongoing litigation on triple talaq in the Supreme Court after ascertaining the opinion of Muslim women — a pledge intended to agitate UP’s political fault-lines.
 
 “Ram mandir aur vikas saath-saath chal sakte hain,” Shah said. While the reference is unchanged from the 2014 BJP Lok Sabha polls manifesto, the emphasis is significant in the context of UP’s polarised politics even as Shah made it clear that he was referring to speeding up ongoing legal proceedings in the case. The manifesto calls for “exploring all possibilities within the Constitutional framework in construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya”.
 
 The manifesto also focuses on issues BJP has been raising – law and order, corruption, illegal mining and the menace of politically sponsored land grabbing and promises separate task forces on all three areas.
 
 Countering the suggestion that BJP has borrowed from Samajwadi Party programmes, Shah said the distribution of laptops will not be guided by community interests and that the party has added the promise of 1GB free data. But BJP also seemed keen to shore up its flanks against populist themes such as loan waivers and clearance of sugar cane dues promised by Congress leader Rahul Gandhi.
 
 By referring to the ongoing court process, Shah seemed to be hinting that BJP will await for the court’s decision instead of considering measures such as a Bill for the construction of Ram Temple as demanded by seers and VHP leaders.
 
 Not mentioning Kairana in west UP directly, where BJP MP Hukum Singh created a storm by raising the issue of exodus of Hindus fearing violence at the hands of Muslims, the manifesto promises to make district magistrates and superintendents of police responsible, apart from setting up a special department in the government.
 
 The manifesto reads: “To stop exodus due to communal tension, a special department would be created and in each district, especially West UP, a deputy collector would be appointed.”
 
 Speaking on the issue of triple talaq, Shah said: “The issue is pending in court. However, once BJP comes to power, the state government would take opinion of Muslim women on the issue and, if need be, would become a party in the ongoing case, presenting the opinion of the Muslim women from the state.”
 
 On law and order front, the manifesto promises to put all criminals, who are absconding after ‘been given parole, behind bars within 45 days if BJP government is formed in the state. To check corruption, the manifesto promises a special helpline in the CM’s office (CMO) while the task force too will be directly under the CMO.
 
 While promising loan waiver to UP farmers, the manifesto made a special mention of plight of sugarcane farmers, promising to clear due to the tune of Rs 6,000 crore within three months. “Farmers will be provided post-dated cheques, which can be encashed 14 days after sale of cane,” said Shah.
 
 The manifesto promises a start-up venture capital fund worth Rs 1,000 crore to “encourage youth to be self reliant”. Every college and university will get free wi-fi facility and 10 new international level universities will be set up, the manifesto said, also promising a Rs 500-crore Baba Saheb Ambedkar scholarship fund for poor students pursuing higher studies. With a special focus on SCs and STs, the manifesto promises 25 special courts to expedite cases under the SC/ST Prevention of Atrocities Act.
 
 On the power front, BJP promises to provide subsidised electricity to the poor for the first hundred units, the rebate being Rs 3 per unit.
 
 Focussing on the two underprivileged regions of UP – Bundelkhand and Purvanchal -- the manifesto promises two “development boards”. A road corridor connecting Mathura-Varanasi-Jhansi-Gorakhpur has been promised, while a helicopter service to connect tourist and pilgrimage centres has been added.
 
 The manifesto promises filling up of a staggering 1.5 lakh vacancies in the police department, “keeping merit as its basis and without any discrimination on the basis of caste or religion”. “This will end politicisation of the police force,” said Shah. It also promised scrapping of the interview process for posts in grade 3 and 4.
 
 
