Being an entrepreneur is no easy job — it requires a lot of self-motivation, focus, planning and steadfast belief in oneself. It’s even harder when a person is trying to do the same online, not fully knowing the kind of audience or the responses that one is likely to get. But there are many who crack the code to being a   sensation, posting videos of what they are passionate about, doing exceedingly well, and earning from it too. On Mother’s Day, we take a closer look into the lives of new-age moms who manage their time between their families and being an online star with ease...

  
  
 
 
 What started out as a pet project with no particular vision in mind for Kabita Singh has turned out to be one of the biggest cooking shows in India today. The self-confessed foodie used to watch a lot of cooking shows online, but always felt that they weren’t too beginner-friendly, and that prompted her to start her own channel in 2013. “I was never really interested in the subscribers and views count, until one recipe of mine — Bread   — went viral in 2016. Once I realized the kind of impact my videos were having on people, I become more serious and regular about it,” says the self-taught video editor and producer. The mum of two — a five-year-old and a five-month-old — adds, “These days, I shoot and edit during the hours that my toddler naps, or whenever my husband keeps them occupied. It’s quite a challenge, especially not being able to follow a schedule, but I never compromise on the time I spend with my kids. It’s great to be an online sensation, but family comes first.”
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Every Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday, at around 1 pm, eager fashion and beauty enthusiast wait for Shruti Anand’s videos — simple hacks that break down seemingly complicated beauty techniques, fashion sense and fitness myths. It all started in 2011, when she was in the USA, where she used to spend long hours commute watching videos online and getting the idea to make her own. As a person who has always been interested in beauty and makeup, she started her own channel. “It was just me posting videos of the beauty and health challenges that my friend and I were facing. I didn’t realize that they would connect so well with the audiences.” She has earned many followers, but not without her own challenges. “The toughest phase of my life was when my now two-year-old was a newborn. I just could not deal with both her and the channel at that time. That’s when I realized that by delegating my work, I could get a lot more done. I hired an editor for my videos and got a maid to help me chores. That way, I get to do what I love and also spend a lot of time with my daughter,” she says.
 
 
 
 Nisha Madhulika is a celebrity in her own right. As the producer of one of the biggest non-celebrity cooking channel in India, she has uploaded over 1,000 videos showing recipes of vegetarian dishes (minus onion and garlic) and has followers all across the globe. One look at the comments section will give you an idea of how much her followers love her. “A lot of people refer to me as their second mom or virtual mom. Those are probably the best compliments I receive for my videos.” The 56-year-old mom of two tech entrepreneurs, fondly referred to as Nisha Auntyji by her followers, she makes cooking very easy and fun to learn, and strictly claims she’s not in it for the money. “Money does not drive me to make these videos at all. I just take pride in what I do, and tell me how I cannot, after seeing all the affection that people shower on me.” Initially, it was her husband and sons who helped her out, right from shooting to editing and uploading. She now has her own team, but is eternally grateful to her family. “They showed me the true meaning of love and support,” says the proud mother.
 
