JALANDHAR: In an attempt to reach out to Dalits, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) has invited Dalit (Ravi dassiaAdidharmi) religious leader   from Jalandhar as the chief guest for its mega function on Dussehra at Nagpur headquarters.The function will also be addressed by RSS sarsanghchalak  .

 Chief of Sri Guru Ravidass Sadhu Sampardai Society, Dass also heads Sant Protam Dass Dera Babe Jaure dera in Raipur Rasoolpur village near Jalandhar whose followers are not only from the Ravidassia community, but also include Jat Sikhs.
 
 The society has over 300 sants who head different RavidassiaAdi-dharmi community deras in Punjab. The RavidassaAdi-dharmi community also has a strong presence in Uttar Pradesh and a few other states.
 
 Talking to TOI, Sant Nirmal Dass said a senior RSS functionary had come to him to invite him to the Dussehra function. "They had helped us to construct a big and magnificent gate in the memory of Guru Ravidass in Haridwar. I can't forget that support," he said.   chief minister B C Khanduri had laid the foundation of the gate in February 2009, after his government had given approval for its construction.An ashram and bathing ghats along the Ganga were also built by him in Haridwar.
 
 Senior RSS functionaries at Nagpur, who confirmed the invitation to Nirmal Dass, said he was working among dalits.
 
 Dussehra holds special significance for both RSS and the Dalit movement. The RSS was formed on this day in 1925, while three decades later B R Ambedkar led millions of dalits to renounce Hinduism and become Buddhists on this day.
 
 
 
 
 Sant Nirmal Dass proved his mettle in 2009 and 2010 when he played a crucial role in narrowing the widening chasm between Sikhs and RavidassiasAdi-dharmis by deciding against shifting of Sikh holy book Guru Granth Sahib from their shrines and deras in Punjab. A very vocal section of the community was trying to spearhead the campaign to shift the Sikh holy book from Ravidassia shrines and deras after killing of Sant Ramanand of Dera Sachkhand Ballan, the most influential in the com munity, in a temple in Vienna in May 2009.
 
 The decision of the society to stick to the Sikh holy book was not only seen as a courageous step but it also stated reversing the trend of widening chasm between Sikhs and Ravidassias ­ who are second largest community of Dalits in Punjab.
 
 "We can't get away from Guru Granth Sahib as that strongly enunciates `sarbat da bhala' (universal welfare) and emancipation of those inflicted by the caste system.The holy book contains the bani (compositions) of Guru Ravidass also and time has proved our decision correct," he said while speaking to TOI on Monday.
 
 Though Dera Ballan later announced to found a separate religion, Ravidassia, with a separate Granth Smrit Bani Sri Guru Ravidass Ji -in January 2010, Sant Nirmal Dass and other sants of the Society never accepted it.
 
 These days he is focusing more on a school, Sri Guru Ravidass Public School, at Chooharwali village. "Education is a strong tool of emancipation and empowerment and that is why I am focus the school," he said.
 
 
 
 
 The RSS is trying to reach out to Muslims too. A few days back, RSS children's wing invited Muslim homoeopath doctor Munnawar Yusuf to be the chief guest at its annual Shastra Puja function. Yusuf runs his medical practice at Shanti Nagar, a locality dominated by the Shias with whom the Sangh Parivar has better relations among Muslim sects. Yusuf told TOI that some RSS activists, including its former deputy chief Laxmanrao Pardhi, were his friends.
 
