LUCKNOW : The special   court had to defer the framing of charges against former deputy PM  , Union minister   and BJP veteran   as well as three other BJP leaders – MP Vinay Katiar, Sadhvi Ritambara and Vishnu Hari Dalmiya – on Friday as they were not present in the court due to personal reasons.

 Directing them to appear in the court on May 30 for framing of charges, the special judge SK Yadav cautioned the above accused that no further adjournment or exemption from personal appearance, or any further date, would be granted.
 
 The court had fixed Friday for framing of charges in compliance of the Supreme Court’s April 19, 2017 order, but lawyers representing the aforesaid accused persons – Vimal Kuamr Srivastava and Manish Tripathi – moved an application for exemption from their personal appearance. The application cited two reasons for exemption -- First, that the they were unable to appear on Friday due to personal reasons and secondly that they were out of station.
 
 CBI counsel Lalit Singh and B K Yadav opposed the application and said the court had fixed Friday for framing of charges against the accused and that it should be ensured that the accused were present on next date.
 
 After considering the entire facts and circumstances, the special court accepted the application moved by Advani and others in the interest of justice with the condition that the exemption was being accepted for Friday only. While passing the order, the court fixed May 30 for framing of charges and directed the accused persons to remain present on that day without fail.
 
 The court has already fixed May 30 for framing of charges against six other accused -- Mahant Nritya Gopal Das, Mahant Ram Vilas Vedanti, Baikunth Lal Sharma alias Prem Ji, Champat Rai Bansal, Dharma Das and Satish Pradhan.
 
 All these 12 persons are accused of conspiracy behind razing of   in 1992. A CBI court and later the Allahabad high court had dropped conspiracy charges against them, but the   on April 19 this year restored the charges and asked the special court to finish the case within two years.
 
 
