NAGPUR: Nineteen-year-old Drushti Sonarkar died on the spot after the car she was travelling in crashed at high speed into an electricity pole near Ambazari garden on Tuesday night.

 Drushti, an engineering student, was travelling in a car that was being driven by her friend Darshan Tiwari (20). Other occupants were Atharva Joshi, Rajesh Patrikar, Dipesh Mirchandani and another youngster identified only as Ayush.
 
 According to statements of some of the survivors, all of them were at Tiwari’s place at   for a night out. Tiwari’s father is a central government employee and the family was away at Raipur on the day of the incident. The youngsters enjoyed liquor there and later drove to Futala to have food, police said. But because they didn’t find anything there, they decided to go someplace else.
 
 This was when the accident took place. As the car sped down the sloping road next to Ambazari lake, it crashed into the pole by the side of the road. Footage from a nearby   camera, bearing a timestamp of 11.22pm, shows the car jumping several feet in the air on impact and landing on its right side.
 
 Drushti was in the back seat and was thrown out of the car, probably because the door near her flung open as it hadn’t been locked properly. She suffered grievous head injuries and died on the spot. All others escaped with minor injuries and were rushed to Wockhardt hospital by passers-by. Drushti was declared ‘brought dead.’
 
 Images of the mangled car show that the electricity pole, having bent after the accident, had sliced through the lower half of the front passenger door. The rear left door was also open, giving credence to the theory that Drushti was thrown out of the car by the force of the impact.
 
 Senior PI Achyut   from Ambazari police station said the car, an upmarket sedan, probably belonged to Tiwari’s family and Tiwari was driving the vehicle. Ambazari police have registered an offence of negligent driving, culpable homicide not amounting to murder and other offences against Tiwari, following a complaint of Drushti’s father Milind. Tiwari had who not been arrested until late Wednesday night. The section of   might be added based on statements of survivors, a source said.
 
 Mirchandani, one of the occupants of the car, informed Drushti’s father about the accident and also took her to the hospital. Police were summoned to the spot after Drushti was taken to the hospital. Tiwari didn’t go to the hospital out of fear, sources said.
 
 Police said they had recorded statements of Atharva Joshi and one other survivor until Wednesday evening. “We will examine the footage from CCTV cameras installed at Ambazari garden,” PI Sabnis said. 
 
