NAGPUR: After voting ended on Tuesday,   claim that BJP’s prospects now seemed very strong as a large number of voters from the Muslim community, dalits and other backward sections kept away from polling.

 Though rates for other parties mostly remained the same as it was before Tuesday, bookies are offering odds at par for   winning 85-90 seats. This, even though, they were complaining about punters keeping away due to the confusing four-member prabhag system.
 
 While   has steadily slumped in the speculation game, BJP has only strengthened its chances in the post-poll calculations. The bookies, who were offering 76-80 odds at par for BJP last week, has increased their stakes after the poll observing the voting pattern and percentage share for each party. 
 
 Low turnout from slums and lukewarm response in Muslim-dominated localities have further propelled the conviction of the bookies to back BJP. Proportionately, the chances for Congress beating the bookies speculations of garnering less than 35 seats too have dwindled but the odds till now after couple of hours of polling did not change. 
 
 It’s reliably learnt that some political activists and candidates have targeted some Itwari-based bookies. Sources claimed that a biscuit trader-cum-political bookie from Itwari was seriously targeted by a section of political parties for having heavily favoured BJP. 
 
 Some local bookies too have offered odds for certain hotly contested ‘prabhags’ where bigwigs are pitted against each other. 
 
 According to another section of the bookies, the seat sharing percentage of the parties is led by BJP with 65-70 seats while Congress would have to remain contended with 45-50 seats followed by   with 10-12, BSP winning 14-16 and NCP’s only 6-8 candidates are expected to become corporators.
 
 Punters are learnt to have faced trouble in placing bets in the bifurcated ‘prabhag’ system with confusion in the contest. “The punters kept on confusing with the equation of who is fighting against whom. The caste-based system left many punters in further quandary. There was no interest generated after such chaos reigned during polling which further brought down the amounts of bets placed,” he said. 
 
 Another punter said that the one-sided BJP wave too has restricted the speculation game in some prabhags like 31 where BJP candidate and deputy mayor Satish Hole and Congress’s Prashant Dhawad (80-80) along with BJP’s Dr   and Congress’s Yogesh Tiwari (80-60) are contesting a hot battle. 
 
 “Some punters have gone with the heavyweight candidates. In fact, the hard-core punters are preferring to place bets on some crucial candidates while the emotional and pro-party ones are investing money on seat share,” he said.
 
 (With inputs from Amit Sampat)
 
 
