PATNA: “Please inform the local police station if you are going out of the city during   vacation,” appeals   (Patna)   to the residents, keeping in mind the theft and house burglary cases in locked houses during the last festive seasons.

 Patna tops the theft chart prepared by Bihar police for all the 38 districts in the past 16 years.
 
 The SSP has made the appeal so that the police station concerned could instruct the constables and night patrolling jeeps to remain extra vigilant in their localities.
 
 There has been a large number of theft cases in Patna during vacation periods and festive seasons. The most theft-prone areas are under Kankarbagh, Agamkuan, Danapur, Digha, Rupaspur, Rajeev Nagar and some other police stations in eastern and western Patna. Most of the thefts cases remain undetected as police fail to nab the suspects.
 
 The Bihar Police crime data also suggest that Patna remained on top in theft cases throughout from 2001 to 2016. Altogether 1,568 thefts were reported in 2001 and the figure increased more than double to 3,802 in 2016. Patna is followed by   where 2,170 theft cases were registered in 2016 compared to mere 442 in 2001.
 
 Patna is also on top in burglary with 772 incidents reported in 2016 against 426 in 2001. Muzaffarpur is second with 337 cases last year compared to 111 in 2001.
 
 Last year, Patna police had taken an initiative of ensuring night patrolling by baton-wielding constable on cycles in the theft-prone areas, which continues but failed to create any impact.
 
 In addition, the district administration has also appealed to people to avoid burning of tyres, plastics and other polluting objects in the ‘Holika’ on March 12. “We urge the people not to burn tyres, plastic and other polluting objects during ‘Holika dahan’ as the state government is also trying to create awareness on the issue for the past few days,” said Patna district magistrate Sanjay Kumar Agarwal. He also said the   has been ordered to keep an eye on people burning tyres and plastics in the ‘Holika’.
 
 “A joint order for deployment of magistrates and forces has been issued. Some police stations have been provided with reinforcements. Excise department officials with police teams will be on the roads with extra units of breathalysers to detect liquor consumption and preventing hooligans from creating law & order problems,” Agarwal said, adding that all security arrangements would be in place from March 12 to 14.
 
 Patna IG Nayyar Hasnain Khan had a review meeting with DIG Shalin and SSP Maharaaj for security arrangements on Holi in communally sensitive areas and take action against antisocial elements.
 
