GREATER NOIDA: The   of 39 villages, protesting against the construction of  , have threatened to stall the attempts of the   to   from Tuesday.

 A meeting of the officials and the farmers on Monday ended in a deadlock after which the district magistrate addressed the media saying that the farmers have been explained that the work has to be continued and they would not be allowed to stall work.
 
 While the farmers said they have been given lower compensation as compared to the counterparts in Ghaziabad, the district magistrate has said that their compensation has already been enhanced during the previous arbitration process.
 
 The 135-km long Eastern Peripheral Expressway aims at a signal-free connectivity between Ghaziabad, Faridabad, Gautam Budh Nagar (Greater Noida) and Palwal.
 
 The Supreme Court, which had passed an order to construct the expressway around Delhi in 2005, in order to decongest and de-pollute its roads, had rapped the National Highways Authority of India in January 2015 asking the NHAI to “beg, borrow and steal money from the Central Government and start constructing road.”
 
 Subsequently, the apex court had also asked the DGP of UP to provide security for construction work of Eastern Peripheral Expressway when the work in the 41-km patch in Gautam Budh Nagar district was forcibly stopped by farmers.
 
 Farmers of Gautam Buddha Nagar are demanding an increased compensation saying that their counterparts in Ghaziabad have received between Rs 11,000-17,000 per square meter as land rate.
 
 “There are 39 villages where gram panchayats are still functional. As per the land acquisition act of 2013, farmers should get four times the prevalent market rate of their land as compensation. However, the Greater Noida Authority has said that the villages come under the area which will be developed as city under Master Plan 2013 and hence our land is being termed as falling in urban area. Moreover, we should be given employment or Rs 5 lakh each to the family member who is above 25 years of age,” said Balraj Bhati, one of the farmers who was present in the meeting with the district magistrate in the collectorate office on Monday around 12 noon.
 
 Some of the farmers have received compensation even lower than what was decided, he said. “Some of us have received as low as Rs 1,700- Rs 2,400 per sq metre,” he said.
 
 However, district magistrate BN Singh said the work of the EPE, which is being monitored by the Supreme Court, has to be resumed.
 
 “Farmers have been explained that their compensation was enhanced in the last arbitrary proceedings to Rs 3,500 per square metre with an additional 4% interest. Rs 5 lakh each will be given to them as relief and rehabilitation. A committee has been formed, comprising additional district magistrate (land acquisition) and project engineer (NHAI) to prepare the files for the farmers and it will speak to them every Saturday. These are scattered pieces of land in some villages,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, farmers said in case the work is resumed, they would lie in front of the machines and stop the work.
 
 
