Known for his on-screen character Rinku Bhabhi, who always complains about her husband, or the famous Dr Mashoor Gulati, comedian  , charmed Bengalureans with his performance on Saturday. Right from the moment he walked onto the stage, till the very end, he had the   in splits. In an exclusive chat with 
 , he talks about his onscreen characters, his views on standup   and his upcoming plans. Excerpts:

 
 
 I don’t know about standup comedy because it’s a very difficult thing to do, a very difficult profession to be in. But as a kid, when I was in school I would mimic my teachers. I would mimic them in their absence and many times I have been caught doing so. I would mimic my relatives at family gatherings and they would all laugh but as a child, I never understood why they all laughed. But still I would enjoy that. My mechanism of   and performing comedy is such that I always become someone else. I am not comfortable as myself.
 
 I do different characters, because as a child, I wanted to get into many professions. Performing arts allows you to become all the characters you want to be. I once told someone I always wanted to become a doctor but it wasn’t possible. But whatever we want, at times it comes true, because the other day when I was going somewhere, an autorickshaw driver pointed out and said, “
 ”
 
 
 
 It’s been a while since I’ve been on TV and people have seen me in different getups. I wonder sometimes, how do they recognize me, but yes, most of the times they do.
 
 
 
 It is a show and they are entertaining people and are making them laugh. That’s a good thing. But I also want to say that it was a platform and I am thankful to that platform. I was able to make people laugh through that platform, which I cannot forget.
 
 
 
 They all are, in some way, an extension of me. They are my experiences, my milieu, and the place where I was brought up, all of it translates into these characters. These are the people that were around me when I was growing up. I feel good and enjoy doing it, in such a way that I look for things that my inner mechanism translates into and people enjoy it. Most of the time it works and sometimes it doesn’t. But you have to be true to yourself. If you fake anything, whether internally or externally, people will come to know. In their subconscious, they know whether it is connecting with them or not.
 
 
 
 I have grown up only observing women. I think they are the better gender. They are aesthetic, powerful and sensible. ‘
 ’ (laughs). He’s useless. ‘
 ’. I am not observant intentionally, it’s more like a hobby. For me, it’s not about a boy or a girl or a man, it is about a character, a person. So I have to get into that character and I feel comfortable doing that. For me, playing a woman is easier because I only like women. 
 
 
 
 These days when I go out and perform live, people sometimes don’t want to watch you. They prefer to listen to you. For e.g, when I was performing for the audience here (Bengaluru), I had some 30-40 jokes prepared in my mind, but it was amazing to see the love I got. And then I had to respond in a similar way. There were a few magical moments for me. When I was performing, I began narrating a joke which I thought I would, but suddenly I had to withdraw it and start talking to the audience, do one or two impromptu acts, for which I thought I will have to go backstage and prepare, but I did it on stage. For my second act, I told my team ‘I may call you on stage’ because that’s the vibe I got. I told them to be ready — either I will come backstage or I will call you on stage.
 
 Live of course is ‘live’, the word says it all. You are prepared with your script, but you never know how it will go, how the audience will react, what’s the outcome. In an auditorium-based show, the connection is different.
 
 
 
 There is immense talent in India. Television is limited and time bound, beyond a certain limit there can’t be performers or programmes. Internet has given a platform to many performers and comedians, who are getting recognition and it is good. Things are changing and people are getting to see more talent and they laugh more.
 
 
 
 I want to entertain and want to continue entertaining people. I want to work hard and keep this connection with the audience and the love going. I feel blessed, because sometimes hard work is not answered, and I feel lucky about the immense love I get and I feel so connected with the audience. I also feel that I should do something which again entertains people.
 
 
