Chandigarh: For many schoolchildren here, the daily auto-rickshaw ride from home to school and back continues to be a perilous one. In a reality check by team TOI, one thing which was found common among private schools in Sectors 15, 7, 27 and 47 was overloaded auto-rickshaws, caring little for safety. It was further observed that there was no supervisor to look after the kids except the auto-drivers.

 Just before Chandigarh schools closed for summer vacation this year, checks by Chandigarh Commission for Protection of Child Rights, the state transport authority and traffic police had revealed violations by auto-rickshaws. With these schools reopening, violations have also returned. According to students and their parents, the callous attitude of bus drivers and their attendants is one of the main reasons for their opting for auto-rickshaws.
 
 Outside a school in Sector 47, some auto-rickshaws were found overloaded with 10-12 students. A visit to some Sector 15 schools revealed that there were no teachers to supervise transportation of the children. On being asked some students said auto-rickshaws were more convenient than buses. A student of a Sector 15-based school, Harmanjot Kaur, said that, “I prefer to take an auto-rickshaw because the bus stops quite far from my house.”
 
 She was not the only one to have this view. Most students said auto-rickshaws were convenient and less time consuming. When asked if the driver had been ever challaned for overloading, Harmanjot said, “No, there has been no such incident.” Another student said bus drivers did not always drop them at the stop and they had to walk a lot. “I used to reach my home 45 minutes late as the bus did not have any specific route. At times the bus went via other long routes, therefore I prefer   than the school bus,” said another student.
 
 When asked about overloading, auto driver Saroj justified by quoting, “Carrying just five children will not be sufficient to earn my bread.”
 
 While on one hand some of the auto drivers take risk with regard to children’s lives by overloading, some in order to avoid this, drop the children in shifts, which leads to more problems as most of the children are left outside the school premises, waiting for the auto driver to return, alone without any security. “We have to wait for half an hour for the auto driver to return,” said Ishita, a Class V student of a Sector 27-based school.
 
 When asked about the reason why she and most of her friends prefer autos rather than school bus, she added that, “The school bus drops us way far from our homes whereas the auto driver drops us at our colony gate.”
 
 Some parents who do not send their children on school bus or auto revealed other problems. “They take 12 children in an auto-rickshaw having a maximum capacity of six children. Besides, bus drivers are known for rash driving. So, I prefer to take my child on my own,” said Aadesh Kumar, parent of one the students who prefers neither bus nor auto.
 
 BOXES | officials speak
 
 ‘Crackdown soon’
 
 Chandigarh state transport authority (STA) additional secretary Rajiv Tewari has said they are conducting checks for auto-rickshaws ferrying schoolchildren. “We had issued challans before summer vacation. We will be at it again soon,” he maintained.
 
 When asked about overloading, auto driver Saroj justified the scene by saying that, “Carrying just five children will not be sufficient to earn my bread as most of the auto remains vacant.”
 
 “The auto-rickshaw fair is much less than the school bus, plus it is less time consuming,” said Nancy Aggarwal, a student of a Sector 27-based school.
 
 BOX--- Autos not safe
 
 It was observed that most of the autos were not at all safe as children were made to sit on a wooden plank with no proper handles. Also both sides of an auto is open, making it dangerous for students.
 
 BoX—Preference for autos 
 
 Parents said they prefer autos for their children rather than school buses because these have a very high annual fare, no specific route, leading to a lot of time consumption and above all rash driving by bus drivers.
 
 
