PUNE: A city without streetlights at night can hardly hold a candle to being a ‘smart’ one. 

 A part of Pune-Solapur Road passing through Pune Cantonment, which used to be a part of the first Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS) route in the city, is plunged into darkness every night and is full of danger as it is a part of the Pune-Solapur highway which witnesses heavy traffic. 
 
 The road has remained poorly lit for several years due to what local residents and authorities say is a dispute over maintenance of streetlights. 
 
 Meanwhile, the fear of accidents hangs over the residents and commuters. 
 
 The   ( ) says it is willing to take over the maintenance of the streetlights. The 250-odd streetlights were put up by   to service the   nullah to Shankarsheth Road stretch of the BRTS in 2007. Their maintenance was halted in 2013 due to the expiry of the warranty period.
 
 Once the maintenance stopped, many lights fell into disuse, and stopped working completely, resulting in poor lighting on a stretch which has particularly heavy traffic, even at night. Locals and elected members have complained to the PCB.
 
 “Streetlighting is a huge problem on this stretch. When one travels towards Shankarsheth Road from Hadapsar in the evening, the streetlights are sometimes on, but they are off on most of the days. It makes the stretch unsafe for driving or for walking. This has been the case for years, and nothing has changed,” Suresh Shivdasani, a resident of   intersection in Camp said.
 
 PCB officials say that “numerous” reminders have been sent since 2013 to the PMC to renew the maintenance of the streetlights.
 
 “There may have been a plan to hand over the maintenance of streetlights to the PCB for maintenance after the end of the warranty period,” a PMC official said.
 
 A PCB official added that the board can maintain them now after a resolution was passed in April.
 
 “ The board has written to the PMC so that its maintenance can be done by the PCB itself. The handing over of the streetlights should take place by the end of this month,” a PCB official said.
 
