KOLKATA: Kolkata Police closed the   in north Kolkata for around 14 hours from 1.15am till 3.15pm on Saturday after sparks and smoke were allegedly seen at a chandelier in the pandal in the early hours of Saturday. 

 The puja was reopened only after a team of PWD civil, electrical, CESC, fire department and police inspected the pandal on Saturday afternoon and gave a no objection certificate to the puja clarifying that there was no major fault in the electrical line.
 
 According to a senior police officer of Kolkata Police, smoke was seen coming out of the chandelier at the pandal around 1.15 am and a bursting sound was heard following which cops took the decision to stop the public viewing. 
 
 “There was a bursting sound inside the pandal and smoke was seen from a chandelier. Several thousand people were at the pandal at that time. Our officers immediately evacuated the visitors out of the pandal and closed it for public viewing for the sake of public security,” a senior officer at Lalbazar said. “Short circuit at Santosh Mitra Square sometime back. 'Darshan' closed. All evacuated safely. No injuries” – Kolkata Police tweeted around 2.20am.
 
 Puja organisers had rubbished any incident of fire or short circuit and had a verbal duel with the cops over the closure. They even gheraoed the local Muchipara police station for long hours on Saturday alleging the police had “conspired” to close the public viewing as it had failed to control the huge rush of visitors. “There was no smoke or fire at the pandal. There are no signs of any flame. This is nothing but conspiracy on part of the police who failed to control the crowd visiting our puja and are also playing into the hands of the popular south Kolkata ministers whom we have easily beaten this year in terms of popularity and crowd count,” said the puja committee president,  .
 
 The inspection team however said signs of sparks were evident on the chandelier that has got blackened at parts but added that no major electrical fault were in place. “Signs of sparks have been seen on the chandelier but it was nothing major. Further, the electrical lines are also fine, hence we allowed the puja to be reopened,” said a senior officer of the PWD electrical department, who was part of the inspection team.
 Santosh Mitra Square puja pandal has been a big hit this year drawing laksh of visitors from Tritiya courtesy a gorgeous London-themed pandal and a golden attire of the goddess idol who has been clad in a 22 kg gold saree of 22 carat. The pandal has also been decked with replicas of the London Eye,  , Big Ben and  .
 
 In 2015, the Kolkata Police had stopped the public viewing of Deshapriya Park’s Durga Puja on Panchami evening following a near-stampede situation and complete shutdown of roads around the puja pandal as lakhs had gathered to see an 88-feet Durga idol that was promoted as the world’s tallest Durga.
 
