Burdwan: “He is a very simple man,” says 56-year-old Ganga Koli, looking warily at the reporters flocking to her two-room rented home in Burdwan’s Burabazar. “He calls me boudi (sister-in-law),” she says, beaming with pride.

 The “he”, whom Ganga refers to, is none other than Ram Nath  , sworn in on Tuesday as the nation’s 14th President.
 
 On the night of July 21, Ganga had received a call from her New Delhi-based sister-in-law, Savita, the President’s spouse. When Savita told her the good news, Ganga’s voice choked with emotion, and could barely utter “Badhai ho (congratulations)”. And while Savita invited her to Delhi, Ganga didn’t have the heart to reciprocate. “This rented house is too small to invite the President. One day, when we will have our home, we will invite him,” she explains.
 
 “Nandai Jamaiji, you know, came to this home twice,” says Ganga. “The first time, in September 1996, when my husband died. He and his family stayed with us overnight. We didn’t even have bathrooms or toilets then. But they never made us feel they were inconvenienced in any way. He only ate dal-roti. A vegetarian, he prefers roti over rice. The second time he came was in 2001, that time only for a few hours. He had to attend a hearing in Calcutta high court and ensured he spent a few hours with us before he took a flight to Delhi.”
 
 It wasn’t without reason that a jubilant Ganga and her two sons — Arun (34) and Barun (26) — couldn’t hold back their happiness after receiving the phone call five days back. A local vernacular newspaper had run a small article on Sunday headlined “The new President’s in-laws stay in Burdwan”. Since then, reporters have not spared them a moment, but Ganga and her sons are not complaining.
 
 “My late husband, Om Prakash Koli (the President’s eldest brother-in-law), had settled here four decades ago,” Ganga says. “He was known as a good refrigerator mechanic, and wanted to marry a Bengali girl.”
 
 Ganga says she hailed from a poor family in Nadia’s Krishnagore. They had an arranged marriage. “I come from a poor family but never for once did they (the President’s family) make me feel that. I was welcomed with open arms. That says a lot,” she says.
 
 After her husband’s death, her two sons now run a gift shop in Burabazar. “We go to Delhi to buy gift items from wholesale markets. We then try to drop in at their home. I last went there two years back,” Arun says.
 
 Ganga and her sons couldn’t go to Delhi on Tuesday morning, unlike other family members. “We couldn’t go. But we will definitely like to visit Rashtrapati Bhavan once. Not now, but later. We’ll definitely go, why wouldn’t we ?” Ganga says. Watching the swearing-in ceremony in their 14-inch portable colour TV, Ganga says: “He will be a remarkable President. He is humble, doesn’t forget his roots and has worked hard to be where he is today. He will work for the people.”
 
 She also hopes that he ups his game in at least one respect. “I wish he spoke a bit more. He hardly does that,” she signs off.
 
 
