RANCHI: Former Bihar chief minister   on Tuesday recorded statements in his defence before a   in Ranchi in connection with the   of  . 

 The Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief - an accused in the Rs 1,000 crore scam - appeared before the court of special CBI judge Swarna Shankar Prasad on Tuesday morning. The court was hearing a case involving fraudulent withdrawal of Rs 38 crore by the then Bihar animal husbandry department (AHD) from Chaibasa treasury when Yadav was the CM. 
 
 Yadav's counsel Prabhat Kumar said he was asked around 25 questions during the proceedings that lasted for one hour. "He replied to all of them," Kumar said. 
 
 The court asked Yadav to reply on charges that he did not act on the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) report during the period. In its report, the CAG had pointed anomalies in the AHD. 
 
 Yadav, in his defence, told the court he did not get the report as they are sent to the Governor as per the protocol. The Governor then sends the report to the cabinet which then forwards it to the public accounts committee of the state assembly. 
 
 The former CM was also asked about a transfer of Rs 40,000 in bank draft to a boarding school in Rajasthan as fees, where his two children were studying. The draft was made by RJD MLA R K Rana on the instruction of Yadav's wife Rabri Devi. It was alleged during the trials that Yadav had diverted money from the AHD for funding his children's education. Yadav rejected the charge saying that bank rules dictated that one person can prepare one draft in a day. "Since Rana was there, Rabri Devi asked him to prepare the draft in his name," Yadav told the court. 
 
 Yadav was asked about his alleged role in the service extension of two AHD officers. It was alleged during evidence proceedings that Yadav had taken favour in return of the extending the services of AHD's Ranchi regional director SB Sinha and one accounts officer RK Das. However, in his defence, Yadav told the court that he signed the file that was moved by the department. "There were no criminal cases against these two officers. The department had recommended for a two-year extension but I reduced it to one year," he told the court. Yadav islikely to appear before the court again on Wednesday.
 
 
