MUMBAI: The game of  , one of the simplest sports in the world whose popularity remains undiminished despite the high stakes involved in cricket and football, is celebrating its 125th   this year.

 Credit for its invention and continued success goes to   (Young Men’s Christian Association).
 
 The Mumbai YMCA is hosting a special tournament to celebrate the milestone at its centres in Ghatkopar, Borivli, Andheri and Bandra from May 22 to June 3. Each team will be gifted a basketball, while each player will be given special   year T-shirts.
 
 “Few people know that basketball was devised as a way to keep football players warm and active during winter. Dr James Naismith, physical education instructor at YMCA’s college in Springfield, Massachusetts, invented the game,” says Melvin Louis, general secretary of YMCA. The first match was played on March 11, 1892.
 
 Coach Amulraj says, “Originally, Naismith used fruit baskets nailed to the lower railing of the gym balcony. Every time a point was scored, the game was halted so that the janitor could bring out a ladder and retrieve the ball. After a while, the bottom of the peach basket was removed.”
 
 One of the keenest proponents of basketball is former police  , whose love for the game shines through in his earnest tone. “YMCA is the cradle of basketball. I have played at their courts in Ghatkopar and Mumbai Central. Mumbai Central particularly during the monsoon since it is located indoors in a basement. I even recruited players for the police team from YMCA,” he says.
 
 Mastan YMCA at Nagpada has thrown up some of the best players in the country, including former India captain Abbas Moontasir. He says, “Basketball is a simple inexpensive sport but one that places a premium on fitness. It does not matter if a player is rich or poor as long as he is fit.”
 
 Melvin Louis debunks the theory that basketball players must be of tall stature. “I am 6 feet 3 inches but our captain Kumar is only 5 feet 5 inches, yet he is so agile and accurate that he strikes like a bolt of lightning. In fact, I look up to Kumar,” he laughs.
 
