Barcelona: Founder and chairman of Bharti Enterprises   backed consolidation in the telecom sector and called for network sharing as he detailed a road map for the industry to get back into “healthier shape”.

 Mittal, chairman of the GSM association, also declared a “war on roaming” as a measure to improve the sector ranking on the reputation index. He also said that the “hand of the exchequer” was too heavy on the industry. 
 
 “The governments have got it wrong for too long: Giving out new licences means more money for the government and more competition for customers. Quite the contrary. You don’t want one or two healthy operators, one or two struggling operators and three or four in the  ,” Mittal said in his keynote address at the  , the annual meeting of the mobile industry.
 
 “You really want a few sustainable solid operators who can put up the investments that are required for new technologies, the demand for data at speeds that you want. It’s extremely critical that regulators recalibrate their stance. I was delighted to hear that the Indian government is comfortable with operators to come down from 12 to 5. Probably, it will be down to four. Let’s see where it ends up,” he said.
 
 Mittal said that 55% of people in the developed world switch off mobile data while roaming and about 90% of travellers from the emerging markets switch off their mobile data, perhaps even voice when they travel. “They grab the local sim cards, they go to the nearest Wi-Fi hotshot, they wait to get to their hotel to then look at their mails. what have we done to our industry? This must stop. As we leave this room we are going to shake this system. I can promise you within my term at  , roaming charges and bill shocks will be a thing of the past,” he said to a round of applause from the huge gathering.
 
 Referring to network sharing, Mittal said the industry is building too many highways. “Active sharing of infrastructure sharing in the form of the full network needs to be pursued. There are problems, issues because there are operators having a significant lead in the market and don’t want to be slowed down by those who don’t have the market share or the balance sheet or the wherewithal to roll out the fanciful new networks,” he said.
 
 “It’s a challenge, but it’s something that we have taken upon ourselves in GSMA to put a group together to see how far we can go on network sharing which can lower the cost of the network dramatically and provide more value in the hands of customers,” Mittal said. The GSMA chief also said that high spectrum charges, taxes and duties put a huge load on the industry.
 
 “It’s time the government views us as a means to the future and not an end in itself. This industry can do some magical things for society and the basic needs to the most complex puzzles that technology can solve sit on the back of a vibrant telecom network,” Mittal said.
 
 
