LUDHIANA:  ,  , is in the centre of a row again. Jail’s medical officer on Tuesday afternoon accused a group of inmates of attacking him with sharp-edged weapons on the incitement of jail superintendent. He suffered cuts on his forehead, hands and stomach. 

 Dr Sawarndeep Singh, who joined around three months ago, alleged that at 12.45pm on Monday when he was inside the  , a group of armed inmates came and attacked him. He said all those present in the room, including his subordinates, did not help him. When he raised the alarm, jail officials came and rescued him. He was taken to civil hospital, from where he was discharged after treatment. 
 
 In his complaint to police commissioner RN Dhoke, Dr Singh said the jail inmates tried to kill him with a knife and other sharp-edged weapons on the provocation of the superintendent. Seeking protection, Dr Singh told the commissioner that the reason was that he refused to give them narcotics as asked by superintendent SP Khanna, who allowed weapons inside the jail. 
 
 He said ever since he joined, inmates have been against him as he refused to given them narcotics. He said he had written to the superintendent about the problem, but he took no action. 
 
 However, the jail superintendent rubbished the allegations. Following the incident, Khanna gave a complaint against Baljeet Singh, an undertrial in an attempt to murder case and his accomplices who are yet to be identified, and also marked an inquiry to deputy superintendent Kamalpreet Singh. 
 
 Accused Baljeet also gave a complaint to the jail superintendent against the doctor and four other inmates for thrashing him. He alleged that he was a TB patient and admitted to the jail hospital. On Sunday night, four inmates, on the provocation of the doctor, beat him up, he said. 
 
 Khanna said, “I will not comment on the allegations of the doctor against me. An inquiry has been marked and report will be submitted by Wednesday. A complaint has been submitted to the division 7 police against Baljeet and his accomplices for attacking the doctor.” 
 
 Inspector general of police (prisons) R K Arora said, “An inquiry has been marked to DIG (Patiala Circle) Lakhminder Singh Jakhar. He will visit the Ludhiana Central Jail and record statements of the jail superintendent and the medical officer. Jakhar will submit the inquiry report the same day.”
 
