NEW DELHI: Rio Games quarter-finalist   has admitted to being close to shattered at having come agonizingly close to an Olympic medal last year, in what was the defining moment of his badminton career. 

 The only player to represent the country in the men's singles event at the 2016 Olympics, Srikanth entered the round of 16 of the men's singles by beating Lino Muñoz and Henri Hurskainen. He then upset then World No 5 Jan O Jorgenson 21-19, 21-19 to make the quarter-finals, where he was beaten by China's Lin Dan, at the time World No 3 and double Olympic champion, in three intense games. 
 
 Speaking to TOI Sports on the sidelines of the first Badminton Association of India conclave in New Delhi, the 24-year-old shuttler - recipient of the Times of India Sports Award (TOISA) for Badminton Player of the Year [People's Choice] - from Hyderabad revealed how he still has sleepless nights when he recalls his clash with Dan in Rio de Janeiro. 
 
 "The Olympics is the most important stage for any player in their career. I think I really lost a medal by two points there. That still keeps me awake at nights. After losing in Rio, I didn't sleep for many nights. I just kept thinking about that quarter-final. But that changed me as a player. I lost the most important match of my career, and there won't be anything bigger than that fore sure," he said. 
 
 "I stopped thinking after a while, and looked at winning because all I know is badminton. The next tournament I played after the Olympics was the  , where I played [Parupalli] Kashyap in the first round and Ajay [Jayaram] in the second round, which felt like I was playing a national tournament. I just wanted to go play well and not think about what had happened in Rio."
 
 That he has managed to put it behind him is testament to Srikanth's drive. Forced to skip several tournaments as he worked his way back to peak fitness was a tough choice, but Srikanth stands justified after reaching the final of the Singapore Open last month. In doing so, he became part of history when he joined compatriot   in the summit clash of the Singapore Open, the first time that two Indians reached the final of a Superseries. 
 
 "You need to have a base fitness before you start playing tournaments. I was lacking that before I started playing international tournaments in March," he said. "Until the Olympics I had about 70-75% of base fitness throughout the year, and I was able to train for two weeks before a tournament to get back to 90-95% base fitness. But over the past six-odd months I was at about 15-20% base fitness, so I had to really push myself to get to 75-80%. It was satisfying to play well in Singapore, though the end result could have been a lot better. That said, going into the tournament I didn't believe that I would be in the final. A quarter-final would do, was the way I looked at it. Doing well in Singapore gave me a lot of confidence."
 
 Earlier this year, Srikanth was recognized for his success in 2016 - in addition to reaching the quarter-finals in Rio, he won two gold medals in the men's team and men's singles at the South Asian Games - by receiving the People's Choice awards for badminton at the Mahindra Scorpio TOISA in Mumbai.
 
