PUNE: Residents of 34 villages are upbeat to be a part of   after their inclusion in the  , but citizens who came into the city limits in 1997 with similar hopes are disillusioned now.

 “Dhankawadi is the best example of what merger has done to villages coming under the Pune limits. This locality has become the hub of haphazard development and the quality of life has deteriorated after merger,” said senior citizen Tukaram Konde, adding that the burden of taxes had increased but the   had not developed the basic infrastructure in the locality.
 
 Homemaker Nirmala Kakade of Katraj said the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) had failed to develop amenities like playgrounds and roads in the locality. “It is like living in a village in the city limits. For us, Pune’s mid-city areas remain the city and we still live in a village lacking basic infrastructure,” she said.
 
 A total of 38 villages were merged in PMC in 1997. But the state government approved their development plan (DP) only in 2014 keeping the decision on biodiversity parks in abeyance.
 
 Senior Congress corporator Aba Bagul said, “Despite repeated demands the civic administration has not paid attention to develop the road network in the 23 merged villages (after 15 merged villages were delinked). The execution of DP is delayed and citizens in these localities feel deprived.”
 
 A senior civic official said, “The merger in 1997 has helped only a few villages like Baner and Balewadi and that too because of Commonwealth Youth Games. Kharadi was developed because of IT companies. The condition of the other villages is pathetic. The civic body has no funds to provide basic facilities like water supply, sewage lines, gardens and footpaths. We don’t know what will happen to the villages proposed to be merged now.”
 
 Experts stressed planning new cities instead of merging villages into urban areas was the best available option. “The impact of all these growths on space, environment and quality of life will be huge. The provision of infrastructure facilities required to support such a large concentration of population is lagging far behind the pace of urbanization. As a consequence, the urban environment, particularly in large cities, is deteriorating very rapidly,” observed experts K C Sivaramakrishnan and   in their research paper on urbanization.
 
 Senior town planner   said, “The merger will be a mechanical process because PMC has no funds to carry out the development works. It has failed to implement the 1966 and 1987 DP in the old city area. The implementation of DP in 23 villages is a pipe dream and so integrated development will remain on paper. The state must instead encourage development villages and connect them to Pune,” he said.
 
