HYDERABAD: The Reserve Bank of India has no idea how much currency was printed post-demonetisation. This is what RBI itself said in reply to an RTI query by RTI activist Anil Galgali. Considering the reply given, former chairman of National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) in a letter to the Election Commission of India (ECI) on January 7 has asked it to make the RBI part with the information.

 The RBI had also refused to part with any information regarding distribution of currency by banks from November 9-19, 2016. In its reply it said: “Office-wise/currency chest-wise information about supplies of notes and stock position with respect to a reasonable time prior to the date of receipt of request is exempt from disclosure under Section 8(1)(g) of Right to Information Act, 2005.”
 
 RBI refused to part with the information quoting Section 8(1)g which reads like this: Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, there shall be no obligation to give any citizen, information, the disclosure of which would endanger the life or physical safety of any person or identify the source of information or assistance given in confidence for law enforcement or security purposes. RTI activists from Mumbai had got the reply from RBI made public the reply he got on December 31, 2016.
 
 “It clearly shows that the RBI wilfully avoided giving the information sought,” said former vice-chairman of National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) Marri Shashidhar Reddy who has written to the Election Commission of India (ECI). In his letter to the Chief Election Commissioner (CEC) expressed apprehensions that in the run-up to the polls in various states, the NDA government at the centre would use the distribution of supply of cash to various states to the advantage of the the party.
 
 He urged the   to call for all the information from RBI pertaining to the printing of new notes and supply of notes of all denomination to different states since 8th November 2016, Seek information from RBI about the procedure followed to supply notes to different states in the past and in the post   phase.
 
 “Direct the RBI to seek clearance from the EC for release of bank notes to all the states so that parity could be ensured with regards to the supply to all the poll-bound states,” he said in his letter.
 
 When RTI activist Galgali sought information about printing of Rs 10, 20, 50, 100, 500 and 2000 notes between November 9-19, both number-wise and value-wise, RBI said it did not have the information. “The information sought is not available with us. Bank notes are printed by presses under BRBNMPL and SPMCL.” RBI said the query was transferred under Section 6(3) of Right to Information Act, to: The CPIO, Bharatiya Reserve Bank Note Madras Pvt. Ltd., Nos 3 & 4, 1st Phase, BTM Layout, Bannerghatta Road, Bangalore – 580 029 and The CPIO, Security Printing and Mining Corporation Ltd, Corporate Office, 16th Floor, Jawahar Vyapar Bhavan, Janpath, New Delhi 110001.
 
 “The reply was given only to wilfully evade the information sought. Can it be presumed that BRBNMPL and SPMCL print currency notes on their own without the knowledge or orders from RBI? Can it be said that the large quantities of the new Rs 2000 notes recovered from by the enforcement agencies as black money were actually printed without RBI keeping track of it. This will lead to the suspicion that RBI may have also been a party to printing to printing of the notes which were recovered as black money? I think nothing could have been more absurd than this,” Marri Shashidhar Reddy said.
 
