It’s strange how familiar I am with every nook and corner here,” says  , as she enters the erstwhile  , once home to  , the then British Resident. The 18th century mansion, now Koti’s famed Women’s College, still brims with the opulence of Palladian architecture. Once inside, it’s almost as though Sravanthi goes into a meditative state — giving us a glimpse into how an abstract artist’s mind works. A carving here; a piece of rotting wood there; a beam of muted evening light trickling in from a creak in the door elsewhere — everything seems to move Sravanthi. “Not just move; they evoke certain emotions in me,” she says, trailing off. The artist tells us why she considers this crumbling legacy of a Hyderabad long forgotten, her muse. 

 
 
 I always had a fascination for old and abandoned places and buildings. It helps me cut-off from the present, from the reality of now, and discover something new. peculiarly enough, I end up finding a connection with my inner self too. 
 If there are two places that have inspired me as an artist — one has to be the Hill Fort Palace and the other is here, where we stand right now. I only faintly remember my first trip to the building many, many years ago. Back then, it was about the history; It was about seeing a mansion that was built in 1798 for a British Resident. 
 But, for the past two years, I have been haunting this place and looking at everything here, differently. In its present state of decay, I find in it a strange beauty I cannot express in words. Good thing I am an artist (laughs). 
 
 
 It feels like a time warp. I feel like I am in a time zone connecting with what the space has witnessed — the glory; the macabre. The way certain objects are lying around teleports me into a different zone. And everything I feel when I am here, spills over onto my canvases. In fact, Most of my works were conceived during my trips here. Of all the crumbling, decaying things here, my favourite has to be these pieces of rotting wood. Over 200 years old, this wood was part of the upper floor of the original structure. During restoration, it was replaced by new material. To me, this rotting wood symbolises life and decay; as well as the earth and fire elements of nature. I explore the different spaces within the building during different times of the day; different seasons... I sit in a particular place one day, wander around somewhere else on another day... Each time, I experience different emotions. It feels like I am conversing with the wood, the screws, the locks, the mirrors. When something like this tickles my imagination, I usually capture it on my phone, so that I can take the inspiration back with me to the studio, literally. And as soon as I get back, I try to translate the emotions I felt there on to my canvas.
  A pile of wood from the decaying floor board inspired one of the canvases that was as part of my multimedia and performance show Tvamevaham, based on the navarasas. It was the grains on the wood; its texture that inspired my abstract work (shows us close-up shots she had earlier captured.) 
 
 
 
 In fact, I really wanted to stage my show here; where the idea was born. Sadly, we couldn’t get the permission on time. Nevertheless, the British Residency will continue to be that one place in the city where I escape to when I am looking for inner peace, or seeking my muse.
  (Her pace slows down as she approaches the exit). No matter how many times I come here, leaving the place is hard, every single time. (She sighs and gives the building one last glance) But I know, I will be back soon.
 
 
 
 
 
 
