THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: A   researcher has bagged the Khalifa International Award for Date Palm and Agricultural Innovation, instituted by the UAE government.  , hailing from Thodupuzha, and who has already won a fellowship of the   of London for his extensive research on date palms, is currently working as assistant professor at King Saud University in Saudi Arabia.

 The award, instituted in 2007 by UAE President   to honour individuals or organisations for outstanding agricultural breakthroughs which benefit the Gulf and surrounding regions, was bestowed upon Antony at a function held in Abu Dhabi last week. The award carries a cash prize of Dh 1 million (approximately Rs 1.75 crore). Around 200 participants from 37 countries had took part in this year’s edition.
 
 Though issues such as climate change, temperature, water and salinity are the main concerns of agriculture in the region, innovations benefitting agriculture all over the world are included in the scope of the award. The Date Palm Award split into five categories – distinguished innovative studies and modern technology, pioneering development and productive projects, distinguished producers in date palm sector, pioneering and sophisticated innovations serving the agricultural sector, and influential figure in the field of date palm and agricultural innovation – is awarded to those who have significantly impacted the date palm sector.
 
 While the first and second categories carry cash prizes worth one million dirhams each, it is Dh 750,000 for the rest. Antony won the first prize in the first category for research ‘which has benefitted the date palm industry immensely’. “The award has attracted the best researchers, experts, farmers and others interested in the date palm and agricultural sector,” said Abdelouahhab Zaid, secretary general of the Khalifa International Award.
 
 “This award is dedicated to everyone working in the date palm sector all over the world. I am obliged to the university for providing me with the state-of-the-art facilities for my work,” said Antony on his achievement.”
 
 Antony, who started his teaching career as assistant professor at  , and worked as entomologist in   in Assam, was a post-doctoral researcher at Lund University in Sweden and later at University of Tokyo, Japan. During his current tenure at King Saud University, he worked in molecular characterisation and functional gene expression and the development of a viable trapping system for Saudi Arabian date manufacturers.
 
