KOLKATA: Commuters in the city will now have to change their age-old practice of zooming past blinking amber   lights at night. Following a   at  , the cops have re-introduced round-the-clock traffic signals at 200 major crossings. 

 Meant to act as a warning for motorists to slow down and cross the intersection carefully, the amber light seemed to have lost its purpose. With regular signal system even at night, which was in place till 2011, police brass believes roads will turn safer and there will be a significant drop in the number of accidents.
 
 With the change in traffic arrangement, motorists will no longer be able to drive through an intersection at will. They will have to stop when the light is red and drive only when it turns green. Not adhering to it will result in prosecution. To ensure that motorists don’t flout the signal at night when traffic cops aren’t present at intersections, police will now carry out surprise checks after midnight. 
 
 Last year alone, trucks, involved in around 70 accidents each day, have been major killers in past two years. Maximum accidents were reported between midnight and 3am in the morning.
 
 Motorists, however, want the cops to keep two things in mind before implementing the new traffic cycle. “On any given day, we are forced to stop between 70 to 120 seconds at Rashbehari or Tollygunge Phari crossing. I wonder how long we have to wait at night,” said Tathagata Mukherjee, a resident of east Behala who drives to his IT firm every night.
 
 Police sources said they had made necessary changes in the signal cycle. “The normal cycle will be continue from 8am to 10pm. At certain signals, this will remain till 11 pm. Between 11pm to 6am, we have a different cycle. A third cycle will be in place between 6am to 8am.
 
 “Motorists in Kolkata think the golden yellow light is as good as green. We have, therefore, little option but continue with the arrangements that are applicable during peak traffic hours. In addition, we have now installed night vision cameras across Maidan-Hastings area as we found it was prone to accidents at night. We will add new areas in the next two months,” said DC (traffic) Solomon V Nesakumar.
 
 Among other measures, police are redesigning road furniture at certain places. For example, maximum focus is on EM Bypass where medians are being created. “We are writing to PWD and KMC to illuminate certain stretches like   and Taratala Road,” said a top officer in Lalbazar.
 
 
