Sreemoyee.Chatterjee

 Sreemoyee.Chatterjee@timesgroup.com
 
 Bengaluru: He’s an author, public speaker, organizational coach and campaign strategist. A multi-faceted personality, Henry F De Sio Jr is known for designing and executing the Obama for America campaign, initiated in 2008 when Barack Obama took over the reigns of USA for the first time.
 
 Former deputy assistant to Obama, Henry is the global chair for framework change at Ashoka, an organization supporting 3,600 social entrepreneurs from 90 countries. He was in the city for a lecture organized by Dream-a-Dream Foundtion to speak about how young people can thrive in the 21st century. Excerpts: 
 
 What major change is the world facing now?
 
 The world is experiencing a dramatic change. Earlier, the world was defined by repetition, which led to efficiency or perfection of repetition for millennia. Now, the world has agencies accompanied by massive digitalization and personal computing devices, where we all are changemakers and not meant to follow the existing order. We too undergo a change in the process of changemaking.
 
 What impact has the shift from repetition to changmaking had on job opportunities?
 
 A recent study by the World Economic Forum shows that 65% of job types that existed before have become extinct. Jobs of repetition are on the decline and jobs of changemaking are coming up. So, there’s a need for a framework that will direct youngsters to face this change and thrive in the 21st century. However, our social structure is still clinging on to the world of repetition and our education system still imparts the skills needed for those 65% jobs. There is no framework to guide the youth in this world of dynamic change.
 
 What should the new framework be like?
 
 Empathy and teamwork are the two most important pillars of this framework. Young people have to be empathetic in order to thrive in an interactive world. They will need empathy based ethics because rules can’t always facilitate change. Also, they should be able to work in huge teams, solve problems and pursue opportunities. Now, an individual’s skill is no more confined to four walls. One needs to collaborate with others who are working as changemakers to take the agency forward. One should view everyone as a leader and is not required to obey orders. One should come up with innovations and be a changemaker himself. Parents, teachers and educational institutions have a major role to play in incorporating the new framework.
 
 How can youngsters easily adapt to the new framework?
 
 All pre-teens need to be law-breakers and should be able to define themselves. This will enable them to recognize their passion. Then they should learn more about their passion, gain knowledge and develop soft skills. They should connect with friends, discuss their passions and strive for self-improvement. The other point to be noted is the need of a disruption in the prevalent system. Youngsters should be encouraged to opt for a gap year, step out of their shoes and experience new things, which will help them make their own decisions and be changemakers.
 
 
