BENGALURU: Chief minister Siddaramaiah on Sunday said his government would include topics on creating awareness about civil services exams and preparing for them in the school curriculum. 

 After inaugurating the   at the J N Tata Auditorium, IISc, he said, "Anyone can crack the civil services exam provided proper guidance is given. Talent is no patented property of the rich or particular communities. Even poor children can reach the top when opportunities are created for them."
 
 DRACS wa s founded by the late thespian Rajkumar's family and conceptualised by his second son Raghavendra Rajkumar. Raghavendra said the academy's objective is to provide affordable coaching for the civil services exams. He suggested the government create awareness among children about the IAS and IPS exams by including relevant topics in the school curriculum. 
 
  The CM said the government would be happy to oblige. "We'll consider including lessons about civil services in the school curriculum," Siddaramiah added. 
 
  Raghvendra said while his father served the state through art, his family was all set to it in education. He recollected how Ra jkumar, a school dropout, was humbled when the   bestowed on him an honorary doctorate. 
 
  "My father was embarrassed to be called 'Dr Rajkumar' since he felt he was not so educated. However, he started his career in IAS in 1954 but it was in the Indian Acting Service. In his memory, we have founded this academy for civil services," he said. 
 
  The academy has a training centre in Chandra Layout in Bengaluru and Raghvendra said coaching centres would be opened soon in all districts. 
 
  Vijyalakshmi Bidari, regional director, Staff Selection Commission, government of India, said Karnataka's representation in the civil services has been dismal and needs to be improved. "Earlier, it used to be in single digits and now it has touched double digits. But it must cross the hundred mark," she said. 
 
  Director General of Police  , senior IAS office T M Vijayabhaskar, principal chief commissioner of income-tax (Karnataka & Goa) Nuthan Wodeyar and retired IAS officer C S Kedar spoke on the occasion. 
 
