PUNE: If one has to draw a parallel between   and  's careers, their art of passing on the captaincy baton would be first on the list. Kumble announced his retirement suddenly, in the middle of a Test, in 2008, handing over the reins to Dhoni, making him India skipper in all formats.

 Dhoni has followed a similar pattern, paving the way for   without fanfare. Back in 2008, Kumble witnessed a transition of eras as a player. In 2017, he is seeing it happen as coach. Kumble feels that if Dhoni was the apt choice to take over in 2008, Kohli too is ready for the responsibility now.
 
 "The first phase (of transition, as player) was probably easy for me. Because I was old and it was easy for me to say, 'Here, MS, take over'. It was very difficult for me to continue at that point of time. The body was not willing but I thought it was the right time for me to leave as well because MS was ready to take over the Test captaincy," said the India coach, who had announced his retirement on the last day of third Test against Australia at the Feroz Shah Kotla in 2008.
 
 Talking about Dhoni's accomplishments, Kumble mentioned Dhoni's ability to manage senior players well, apart from winning three big trophies.
 
 "He (Dhoni) won the World T20 and in the one-day format in Australia, for the first time, in a triangular series. From 2007 to 2017...ten years as captain is phenomenal. It goes to show the capabilities of MS as a leader and also what he has been able to achieve during the transition phase and also when the seniors left. It is not easy coming into the team as captain and having so many senior players. He managed them really well. He not just got the best out of them but also got the best for the team," Kumble said.
 
 Talking about Virat Kohli, the newly-crowned captain in all formats, Kumble said Virat has all the qualities to take Dhoni's legacy ahead. "Virat came into the side when MS was captain. The bonhomie and the bond they have will only help Virat to grow as leader. Virat has shown exceptional quality (in terms of) what he brings to the team both as an individual and a leader. That certainly rubbed off on a lot of other individuals. And we have seen the results in the Test format. I am sure in the one-day format he will be equally good," Kumble, 46, said before Team India's training session at the MCA stadium in Gahunje on Thursday.
 
 Talking about the   against England, India's only ODI series before the Champions Trophy in England, the coach felt the series would serve as ideal preparation. "If you look back at the one-day format, we didn't play much in the last year. The last series that we played against New Zealand was a good one. So we would like to think that this (England series) is the only preparation we have before the Champions Trophy. We would like to start on a good note."
 
