PUNE: Enthusiasm and positivity prevailed in the   at   on Bund Garden Road as about 700 students from various non-government organizations in and around the city joined in for the   of Bollywood film ’Dangal’.

 The screening was organized by the Manjett Singh Virddi Foundation for the underprivileged and differently-abled children. It has been operational since 1999 and organizes movie screenings on special occasions. About 15   member students from Epiphany School and Moledina High School were also present for the event.
 
 The NGOs that participated included Ayodhya Charitable Trust, Care India, Tayabia Orphanage, Anjuman Islam Trust, Kayakalpa and Mahavir Nivasi Matimand Vidyalaya among others.
 
 Prashant Jagtap, mayor of Pune who was present on the occasion, said, “We can see that even today society is not considerate to the needs of the special children. Manjett Singh Virddi has been working for them for years now. His efforts will surely instil faith and give them confidence to build a career.” 
 
 Yogesh Dodke, winner of Hind Kesari title in wrestling championship, was also present at the screening. The sports biopic that portrayed an undying spirit of winning proved to be an inspiration for the students to follow their dreams and break stereotypes. 
 
 Manjett Singh Virddi said, “We only see affluent people going to multiplexes. I want to give the same experience to these children. It helps them forget their pain.”
 
 Stargazing event at Trinity school 
 
 Students of Trinity International School organized a stargazing event recently under the guidance of director and principal Shakuntala Jaisinghani, school supervisor Kajal Chhatija and teachers. The event, titled ‘Stargazing Live’, was aimed to provide an opportunity to the students to view the stars, planets, constellations and galaxies.
 
 The evening started with information on which celestial bodies the students were going to view from Pune’s largest 16-inch telescope. The students observed Mars, Venus and moon along with the Antlia constellation and Andromeda galaxy. The students also hosted games and quizzes, food and art corner for the audience. 
 
 Sanskriti student shines at contest
 
 Keyuree Patil of Std V from Sanskriti School, Wagholi, bagged two bronze medals at the seventh state-level equestrian competitions held recently. She won the medals in two events, including ball and bucket and pole bending. 
 
 The contest was organized jointly by the Maharashtra State Equestrian Association and Digvijay Horse Riding Academy. Keyuree participated in the under-12 category with other students from the school, including Rishab Mahajan and Dhruv Joshi, also from Std V. 
 
 
