CHANDIGARH: Resentment is brewing among the officers of the Haryana Police Service (HPS) and   (HCS). After the Prakash Singh Inquiry Committee, which had probed officials’ laxity in handling the Jat reservation agitation in February 2016, submitted its report, the Manohar Lal Khattar-led BJP government in Haryana had placed 10 DSPs and three SDMs under suspension in March 2016. However, nearly eight months after their suspension, the government is yet to initiate any departmental action against them.

 According to the Haryana Civil Services rules, the government has to chargesheet officers within 90 days of their suspension. This deadline has come and gone long back. At the same time, the government is not able to reinstate the officers either.
 
 The HCS officers placed under suspension include: Pankaj Setia, Jagdeep Singh and Dharmindera Singh. The DSPs placed under suspension are: Sukhbir Singh, Vinod Kumar, Sandeep Malik, Jagat Singh, Surinder Singh, Bijender Singh, Pawan Kumar, Sunil Kumar, Satish Kumar and Rajbir Singh. All the suspended HCS and HPS officers are based in Chandigarh now.
 
 One of the main grouses of the state services officers is that the state government has not initiated any action against the IAS and IPS officers who were also indicted in the Prakash Singh panel’s report. Except for Shrikant Jadhav, who was suspended during the agitation, no IPS officer has been suspended in Haryana. Jadhav’s suspension was also revoked as the government had failed to file any chargesheet against him.
 
 In addition, only two IAS officers faced any action at all. Then Jhajjar deputy commissioner (DC) Anita Yadav and Rohtak DC were shifted out.
 
 Notably, the Prakash Singh committee has also been under fire. Couple of suspended DSPs, who have taken the plea of legality of the report, have also questioned the government’s decision of not reinstating them.
 
 “Why is government protecting the IAS and IPS officers? Either they should also place them under suspension or reinstate us. The Haryana government has not taken even a single step of communicating with the department of personnel and training (DoPT) of the Union government for action against the IAS and IPS officers,” said one of the DSPs placed under suspension.
 
 The report was prepared by Prakash Singh, who is former DGP of Uttar Pradesh, Haryana DGP K P Singh and state’s additional chief secretary Vijay Vardhan.
 
 The suspended officers have already had one round of meeting at Chandigarh. They have also sought time from the chief minister to give their representation. “Though we dismiss the report, at the same time we are disheartened by the government’s stand in our cases,” said a suspended HPS officer.
 
 While chief secretary D S Dhesi and ACS (home) Ram Niwas remained inaccessible, a top bureaucrat with the CMO said, “This is an administrative issue, hence the government will not prefer to comment about it.”
 
 
