LUDHIANA: A seminar was held at United cycle and parts manufacturers association (UCPMA) on Monday about awareness of quality standards in bicycle manufacturing. A team of officers from   (BIS) addressed industrialists and gave them indepth knowledge about the benefit of taking the BIS certification and the procedure for the same. The guests were welcomed by UCMPA’s president   and general secretary Rajeev Jain. Director of Micro Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) development institute   was also present in the meeting.
 
 Speaking on the occasion A.K Ahluwalia General Manager of Research and Development (R&D) centre informed that cycle industrialists can avail the services of R & D centre and can get tested all type of the parts and complete bicycle. He also said that the centre is being upgraded with latest technology and would soon be having the facility of testing of Reflectors of International standards.
  
 R.R. Singh and Sharad Kumar of BIS answered the queries of businessmen and gave them a presentation about their organisation. HS Bains, manger of R&D Centre, K.B Thakur from All India Cycle Manufacturers Association (AICMA) and TPS Kocchar also addressed the industrialists during the seminar.
  
 Meanwhile Rajeev jain, General Secretary of UCPMA said that the cost of certification for getting ISI mark is very high and it should be reduced and one BIS should open one office in Ludhiana since 95% of the bicycle industry is situated in Ludhiana. Charanjit Vishkarma,President of association also presented his views during the program and said that the items like disc brakes, alloy levers and other components do not have any standards and BIS should fix those, also government should promote local industry as well.
  
 Other businessmen present during the meeting included Avtar Singh Bhogal, Rajinder Singh Pappu (Secretary), Rajinder Singh Sarhali (Propoganda Secretary), Harmohinder Singh Pahwa, Surinder Singh , Rajesh Seth, Satinder Atuom, Ashwani Garg, Pardeep Mital, T.P. Singh, Sumit Jindal, Harpreet Singh, Jatinder Pal Singh, Amit Sharma, Sachin Sharma,  , Harminder Singh, Gunjeet Singh and Balbeer Singh Kharbanda.
 
