The next time you pick some flowers, they won’t just be for your centerpiece or the window sill, but the dining plate. That’s right. Edible flowers are being added to leafy green salads, puddings, rice dishes, bakes and more. For instance, did you know   makes for a great garnish on soups? And pansies can be added to cakes? How about giving your food a sprinkling of foliage right in time for the summer? Read on...
 
  
  An overlooked ingredient source, the culinary use of flowers actually dates back thousands of years to the Greek, Roman and Chinese cooking. Cherished for their burst of colour and distinct flavour, chefs are increasingly opting to use them in preparations. Chef   has gone beyond the usual. “I’ve done   jam and pickled hibiscus flowers in vinegar. Same for nasturtium flowers, which I steep in white wine vinegar for some months. It makes for a nice vinaigrette. Another fun idea is to make flower ice cubes for cocktails, using chives, coriander, thyme etc. Flower pollen and pollen pesto is also set to be the next big ingredient,” he says. 
 
 
 Edible flowers are increasingly appearing in mainstream menus. What’s more, the flowers do not require fancy tools or equipment in their usage. It’s just important to buy fresh blooms that are chemical and pesticide-free. They must be washed well and used immediately. Most flowers contain antioxidants and when added to healthy veggies like zucchini, makes for a nutritious bite. 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 Flower-infused recipes are another way to get a healthy reboot. Try apple-beetroot-carrot or the popular ABC with coriander flowers, rosebuds to strawberry juice and petals of calendula to your morning juice. Hibiscus rosella also makes for a refreshing drink on its own. 
 
 Want to go healthy? Toss up a whole bowl with greens and edible flowers. From nasturtiums to zucchini blossoms and pansies, you can be spoiled for choice here. Add a dressing of your choice — olive oil with honey-mustard or lemon-pepper vinaigrette.
 
  
  
 Chef Mikhail Shahani has used flowers on pizza. “The trend as such isn’t new. Zucchini flowers have been used in old Italian cuisine and Indian cuisine does use rose petals in preparations for flavour. We made the most expensive pizza with it — priced at `10,000 —where we added lobster caviar, Alaskan thin crabs, Atlantic salmon with fresh truffle and gold shavings with chive blossoms (similar to chives) and micro greens (for a peppery flavour). Basil flowers also go well on pizza as a topping,” he says. 
 
  
  Now, this is something guests will love! Add a few floral ice cubes to their glass. These edible flower ice cubes impart flavour and benefits to the drink. To make it, simply add violets, geraniums and pansies to the ice cube tray and freeze this. You can also mix and match here. 
 
  
  Foodie Jyotiee Balani shares her experience. “I was once pleasantly surprised to have soup made with flowers. The petals were first put into a bowl and then the chef poured the soup on it. He used just the right amount of flowers, which lent a subtle hint of the flowery taste in the soup and not an overpowering one. This is the key to using edible flowers,” she says.
 
  
  We already use edible flowers and microgreens in regular food preparation, you can also add blossoms to your dessert, says chef  . “Add herb flowers to a lemon ricotta, pansies on pavlovas and cupcakes, a jasmine-spiked tiramisu, rose petals on kheer, doughnuts and more.” 
 
 
 
  
  Flowering teas are the next big thing, says tea expert  . “Rosella from Thailand, when had cold becomes hibiscus and its Indian version is kokum. The flowers are apt for the summer as they have cooling properties — they are calming, act as an anti-depressant and aid weight loss. In addition to the above, chrysanthemum can also induce sleep. Baby rosebud infusions are also apt for the hot weather. All flowering teas are good for people with caffeine issues. Blue tea from the butterfly pea flower is packed with antioxidants,” she informs.
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 Wash the flowers and remove stalks. Let them dry. Mix the remaining ingredients. Cool and add this to the moulds and freeze. When semi-soft, add sticks to it and re-freeze.
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 Says chef  , “My secret to using edible flowers is that I keep the dish simple as the flowers have a delicate taste, which should not be overpowered with other flavours in the dish. They should also be plucked and served fresh. I use lavender in my tea-time cakes and edible flowers in a version of syrups by infusing my panna cottas.” Here are a few other pointers to keep in mind.
 
 
 
 
 
