CHANDIGARH: After campaigning for the elections ended on Thursday , the haze on the ground looked denser. The state votes on Saturday to elect a 117-member assembly . What has complicated matters is that this is Punjab's first triangular poll battle on all seats. So far, the contest had been between the Akalis and the Congress. Since 1966, Congress has ruled seven times; this is the Akalis' eighth stint in office.   and Congress have thrown a sharper challenge at the Akali Dal, fighting to hold its ground.

 The popular response that AAP has drawn has made the race tight and the reason not many are ready to make cocky predictions. Arvind  's party is popular in the Malwa belt that has 69 assembly seats, the maximum in the state. The Akalis won 34 seats in the region in 2012. But here the imponderable is the significant Hindu Bania vote. The support the AAP got begun looking iffy after allegations of AAP's alleged closeness to radical Sikh groups.
 
 Tuesday's blast at Maur added to the confusion, especially since these radical groups are being accused of triggering it. The AAP is riding one-time stand-up comic and MP Bhagwant Mann's popularity in Malwa. Mann has taken the fight to deputy CM Sukhbir  's home turf Jalalabad, drawing crowds with rustic satire and one-liners.
 
 The Congress has looked energetic. But its campaign has been personality-driven, banking on Captain   Singh and cricketer-turned-politician Navjot  . The former BJP member, who switched to the Congress weeks before polls and declared it a homecoming of sorts, has brought to the campaigning his brand of chutzpah, but it is to be seen if it brings in the votes. The party looks well-entrenched in the 25 seats in the Majha region, that include the border districts of Amritsar, Gurdaspur and Tarn Taran. Taking on the challengers are the Akalis. Can it still emerge the shock winner? Possible, say some, if the anti incumbency vote gets di vided between the Congress and AAP .
 
 What's working against the Akalis are allegations that the government failed to stop instances of the Sikh holy book being desecrated, and also the widespread perception that some ruling party functionaries allegedly have links with the drug trade, an issue in this election.
 
 Also facing a fight on his home turf is deputy CM Sukhbir Badal's brother-in-law Bikram Singh Majithia who won by the second-highest margin in 2012. He faces AAP's Himmat Singh Shergill. Some say instead of looking at Punjab's election as one, it should be seen as 117 contests, each constituency grappling with a set of factors. If anti-incumbency is playing out in some seats, powerful sects like Dera Sacha Sauda and Radhasoami influence results in the others.
 
 The Dera, which has an army of supporters in Malwa, declared support for the SAD-BJP alliance on Wednesday . Dera supporters, or `premis', seldom go against their guru's diktat. SAD functionaries say that in many seats, especially in Malwa, the Dera has 15,000 or more voters. But how this will play out on polling day remains a question, for many Sikhs aren't well disposed towards the Dera.
 
 To shore up Congress chances, Rahul Gandhi addressed voters in key constituencies such as Lambi and Sangrur hours before campaigning ended on Thursday. He promised to end drug abuse and tackle the scourge of cancer.
 
 Kejriwal canvassed for advocate H S Phoolka in Ludhiana's Dakha and alleged that the state had appointed a commission to look into the many instances of sacrilege but never made the report public. Sidhu campaigned for his friend, former hockey captain Pargat Singh, in Jalandhar Cantt.
 
