BHAGALPUR: Awareness rally, workshop and motivational conventions marked the 33rd Establishment Day of   ( ) at Kahalgaon super thermal power station (KhSTPS), having 2340 megawatt production capacity, on Tuesday.

 After unfurling the flag and reciting the NTPC song,  , group general manager of KhSTPS, said the corporation has taken rapid strides in production of electricity and its aim now is to make India an electricity-surplus nation.
 
 Applauding the role of KhSTPS employees, Samuel said the NTPC is the largest power producing organization in the country having an operational capacity of 51,410MW with its 20 coal-based, seven gas-based, nine joint ventures, 11 solar energy and a hydro-based energy stations across the country.
 
 Recalling the foundation laying of KhSTPS by then chief minister of Bihar late   on this day in 1984 at Kahalgaon, Samuel said the power station has achieved all the targets so far. While urging the employees and associates to contribute their best to meet the vision and mission of the organization, Samuel said employees’ dedication and hard works are the keys to success of the organization. 
 
 The NTPC was established in 1975 with an aim to make the country self-sufficient in electricity generation and transmission across the country. It has an ambitious plan to become 128GW (gigawatt) plus company by 2032.
 
 Referring to corporate social responsibility of the organisation, Samuel said apart from distributing solar lamps, school bags, sweaters and blankets during financial year 2016-2017, the NTPC has also constructed library buildings, community hall, marriage hall and toilets in many villages. “Various link roads, including the one from ancient   Mahavihara excavation site to Vikramshila railway station and PCC road from Ladma to Maheshmunda were also constructed by the NTPC.
 
 Earlier, awareness rally and other activities were organized at KhSTPS under the leadership of Samuel. Hundreds of employees and their family members, representatives of employees’ unions and CISF officials participated in celebrations. S Sarkar (GM-O&M), Neeraj Kapoor (GM-O&M), S M Jha (GM-FM) and Prabhat Ram (AGM-HR) were also present on the occasion.
 
 
