CHANDIGARH: The UT Administration’s allowing the conversion of leasehold residential property to freehold hasn’t ended the worries of the flat owners, as most group housing societies are yet have land transferred in their name.

 Most societies don’t even have occupation certificate (OC) from the administration. The document certifies that the construction is by the building code and the structure in a condition suitable for occupancy. Of the city’s 112 group housing societies—in Sectors 48, 49, 50, and 51—only 10 have land in their name and only 35 are on freehold land. The societies account for 1,000 flats. 
 
 After four years (on August 18), the   lifted the embargo on transferring leasehold residential property to freehold. However, to get the benefit, the group housing societies will have to first get the land transferred in their name, which requires hefty payment.
 
 In February last year, the administration had framed the guidelines for the transfer of shares, flats, or dwelling units in the housing societies. Each society is required to get its land transferred in its name by executing a deed of conveyance or lease deed by paying a prescribed stamp duty on actual amount paid to   or the UT Administration. However, no society has got the land transferred in its name since the policy was announced.
 
 Group Housing Co-operative Societies Welfare Council chairman Satish Chandra Sharma said the administration had framed a policy but its process was unclear. “They took their own time framing a pro forma for applying for executing the deed of conveyance,” Sharma said. “The   has also not made clear the rates to be charged for executing the deed.”
 
 The residents will have to pay a heavy amount for getting the leasehold residential properties converted to freehold. The rates for plotted houses will be calculated using the formula prescribed in the Chandigarh Conversion of Residential Leasehold Land Tenure Into Freehold Land Tenure Rules, 1996, while for the flats, the rates will be fixed on a pro-rata basis (proportionate allocation according to share).
 
