GUWAHATI: Assam finance minister   on Monday tabled the Assam   ahead of the Centre rolling out the new   regime nationwide from July.

 The bill, which will be discussed in the house on Tuesday, will be put for voting on Thursday. Eight states, Telangana, Bihar, Rajasthan, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Uttarakhand, Madhya Pradesh and Haryana have already passed the respective state GST bills.
 
 Under the GST regime, tax revenue presently collected under VAT, CST, entry tax, entertainment tax and luxury tax, except VAT and CST on liquor for human consumption and five petroleum products, will get pooled into GST.
 
 The financial memorandum of the bill states that “due to subsumation of taxes, inclusion of tobacco products under GST and shrinking taxable base due to exclusion of excise duty, state might face drop in revenue in the initial years. Such revenue will, however, be offset to a great extent by taxing the service sector by the state, the most buoyant source of revenue.”
 
 The memorandum adds that the Constitution 101st Amendment Act provides for compensation to the states by centre for five years for loss of revenue arising out of the implementation of GST. The compensation payable to states in any financial year shall be the difference between the projected revenue for that financial year and actual revenue collected during the year.
 
 The GST council has decided four slabs of rates of 5%, 12%, 18% and 28%, “but the exact fitment of commodities into the above slabs is yet to be done. Therefore it is not possible to ascertain the exact impact of introduction of GST on revenue of the state,” the memorandum added.
 
 Apart from VAT and state excise duty on alcoholic liquor for human consumption and VAT on petroleum crude, petrol, diesel, aviation turbine fuel and natural gas, the other state indirect taxes which will not be subsumed under GST are stamp duty on transfer of immovable property, electricity duty, road and passenger tax, toll tax, property tax, entertainment tax to the extent levied and collected by panchayats or municipality or regional council or district council and specific cesses other than relatable to supply of goods and services.
 
