MUMBAI: Questioning the  's claim that   had earned the number one tag in transparency and accountability in the Centre's latest economic survey , chief minister   said on Wednesday that Mumbai had in fact got a poor rating on grievance redressal, on a par with that of Patna. “Ab Mumbai mein itna vikas ho gaya hai ki Mumbai Patna ban gaya hai (Look at the development in Mumbai, it is now at par with Patna),“ he said. He was addressing a poll campaign rally in the party's Mulund stronghold.

 Sena president  , addressing a rally in Kandivli the same evening, said the statement that Mumbai had been placed on a par with Patna was “an insult to Mumbai.“ Uddhav also said, “There's no comparison between the two cities. If Mumbai is on a par with Patna, I will quit politics, else the CM should.“ He termed PM Narendra Modi as `magrur' (arrogant) and ridiculed Modi's `desh badal raha hai' claim, saying, “Because Modi travels to a new country every day , he thought the nation is changing.“
 
 Fadnavis said the Sena had made “false claims“ about the economic survey , presenting what he called the “real report card“ to prove his claim that BMC had got five “zeroes“ and was third in ranking after Hyderabad and Bangalore in transparency and accountability. The CM pointed out that of the 12 parameters on which the civic body was judged, four pertained to the role of the state government, where it scored 1010.Of the eight other criteria, the BMC failed completely in five and one of the parameters for which it got scores was maintaining audit reports in the public domain. “There is no audit of civic work for the past seven years. The audit reports they have shown are for grants given by the state,“ he said.
 
 Fadnavis reiterated that  's agenda was to bring in transparency and development for Mumbai. “In MMRDA, we have a budget of Rs 4,000 crore but we have recently announced projects worth over Rs 60,000 crore. BMC has a budget of Rs 35,000 crore, but look at the state of affairs in 20 years,“ he said.
 
