VADODARA: Students will have to put in extra efforts to clear chartered accountants (CAs) course. 

 As the   (ICAI) has revised its course curriculum, only those students who have cleared their HSc (class XII) will be eligible to appear in the entrance level of the CA programme. 
 
 So far, irrespective of whether a student had cleared his or her HSc exams, students could appear for the common proficiency test (CPT) – the first of the three examinations of CA course after appearing in HSc exams.
 
  “We have now re-christened CPT as foundation course. Also, to ensure that students don’t blindly enrol into CA programme, we have made it compulsory that only after they clear their HSc, they can appear for foundation level exam,” said  , vice-chairman of ICAI’s board of studies, who was in the city on Friday. 
 
 Kinare was in the city to attend two days CA students conference organised by the Baroda branch of the Western India Regional Council of ICAI and the Baroda branch of the Western India Chartered Accountants Students Association ( ). 
 
 While talking to media persons regarding the revised course curriculum which was launched on July 1, Kinare said that at entry level the number of subjects too have been increased. 
 
 “Instead of MCQ based 200 marks paper, there will be 200 marks paper which will be descriptive in nature,” he said, adding that two papers in economics and business communication have been added at the foundation level. 
 
 At the integrated professional competence course (IPCC) – the second level exam – that will be now known as intermediate, the number of papers have been increased to eight instead of seven.
 
 Also, the institute for the first time in its history has introduced the concept of open book exam for an elective subject which students will have to choose from the list of six elective subjects which will be offered to them at the final level. 
 
 “At the same time, students will now be able to undergo articleship after clearing their first or second group exam at intermediate level. Earlier, it was compulsory for students to clear their first group exam before starting their articleship,” he said.
 
