KOLKATA: A bed in the female medicine ward in   (RGKMCH) has been   for a decade now. No relative has come to take her home even though the octogenarian needs no medical attention.

 But the hospital, with the help of an NGO, will not let the likes of Anjali feel left out during the Durga Puja. On Thursday, patients who have been abandoned by their families, were given new clothes. “Is it really for me? It has been ages since I wore a new dress. Thank you so much, “Pal told the representatives of  , an organization which brought her the new clothes.
 
 Like Pal, there are at least 16 other  , who have been abandoned by their families. When Bansdroni Hridhi proposed that they wanted to gift new clothes to such patients, the hospital gave a nod without thinking twice.
 
 “No one wants to stay in the hospital for long but for some patients the hospital has become their home as no one wants to take them back. They also long to be loved and cared. That is why we said yes when this organization came up with the proposal, “said Dr Sudhhadhan Batyabal, principal of RGKMCH.
 
 Gopal Patra was brought to the hospital on October 20, 2014 after he met with an accident near Haldia. The 55-year-old had to get both his legs amputated from knee down as they got crushed in the accident. Two of his sons, who had admitted him to the hospital, never returned to take him back.
 
 “When both my sons have erased me from their life, I do not expect anyone to remember me during the festival. I am touched by this gesture, “Patra told TOI.
 
 Apart from the abandoned patients, children fighting thalassaemia, too, were gifted new dresses for the festival. Indian Medical Association state secretary Dr Satnanu Sen, who is also the chairperson of the hospital's Rogi Kalyan Samity, himself handed over the gifts to some patients.
 
 “It is a great initiative and a noble gesture to bring smile to these helpless patients. In fact, in future we can organize many more such initiatives so that they do not feel left out, “said Dr Santanu Sen.
 
 Bansdroni Hridhi has similar plans for Sambhunath Pandit Hospital and  .
 
