NEW DELHI: All departmental inquiries against IAS and IPS officers for alleged misconduct or misbehaviour will now have to conclude and a report submitted within six months, according to new rules notified by the   to ensure swift action against those found guilty.

 The   (Discipline and Appeal) Rules, 1969, also require an officer facing inquiry to submit his written statement of defence against charges of misconduct, within a period of 30 days of receiving a copy of articles of charge. He may also specify if he wishes to be heard in person. This period of 30 days may be extended after recording reasons in writing by the disciplinary authority.
 
 Under no circumstances shall the extension of time for filing written statement of defence shall exceed 90 days from the date of receipt of articles of charge, say the amended rules.
 
 As per the new norms, the inquiring authority should conclude the inquiry and submit a report within six months from the date of receipt or order of his appointment as inquiring authority. This authority may however seek extension, not exceeding six months, for its proceedings from the disciplinary authority. The reasons shall have to be recorded in writing by the disciplinary authority.
 
 The disciplinary authority may, based on the findings of the inquiry, make an order imposing penalty on the officer found guilty. A copy of the inquiry report, however, must be submitted to the  , along with comments of the disciplinary authority on representation of the officer and disagreement note, if any.
 
 The advice of the Commission must be shared with member of the service who may submit a written representation within a fortnight. The Commission’s advice and representation of the member of service on such advice shall be considered before making any order imposing penalty.
 
 “The change (in rules) is to ensure that the guilty is punished swiftly. This will also send a message to all employees that they need to perform up to expectation and without any acts of omission and commission,” minister of state for personnel   was quoted by the agencies as saying.
 
