A group of teenagers once told MC, pro ducer and music organiser  , popularly known as `Noyz', that they didn't believe   could do great things in hip-hop music, but he proved them wrong. He found their response to his video most humbling and the  .

 It is difficult to describe Amit, who apart from being an MC is a spoken word artist and medical professional.The Brampton-based Canadian rapper has his extended family in Jalandhar and started rapping as a child. He explains, ``The earliest raps I recall writing was when I was in grade 5, aged 9 or 10.I've been actively recording music and performing at shows since 2009.“
 
 He factors in personal experience into his work, whether it's his struggles and successes, journeys of the people around him, a conversation or a book His recent participation in the mental health movement “Bell Let's Talk“ has a personal link. “I was diagnosed with depression, but struggled with the symptoms for more than a decade before finally seeking and receiving help. I wanted to participate in this cause to share my own experience, as well as be a voice in the South Asian community that is willing to speak on this issue openly and honestly because there aren't a lot of us who are willing to acknowledge it...By speaking about it, I was hoping to empower those who may be struggling and let them know they're not alone.“
 
 Indeed, he is broaching topics that are often taboo in the Punjabi community.“Growing up, I didn't have a lot of Punjabi or Sikh role models in mainstream media. Representation counts for a lot. I'll continue to do my best to push the culture for the next generation coming up.“
 
 In light of recent events such as Trump's immigration order, Singh feels he has even more responsibility . “I feel hip hop as a whole is more important right now.It started as voice for coloured people living in poverty. Since its inception, it has always been the most vocal, raw and uncompromising art form when it comes to speaking of what people living in poverty are struggling with... Rappers now need to speak up louder because we need unity in the people and accountability in the government now more than ever.“
 
 Singh says he has lot of Punjabi and non-Punjabi people followers. “I think the youth understand where I'm coming from as we share a lot of the same experiences, and the older generation, when I've taken the time to break down the context and content of my rhymes, appreciates the message as well.“
 
