NAGPUR: “Societal and environmental pressures over recent years have led to a growing movement for industry to reduce its waste water and treat it before discharge. Waste water is now seen as a potential resource and its use or recycling after suitable treatment can provide economic benefits,” said   Bhole, former chairman of   (IE).

 Bhole was speaking at a programme organized by Sinchan Sahayog Nagpur, Nivrutta Abhiyanta Mitra Mandal ( ) and   of Engineers (India) to mark World Water Day 2017 on Wednesday. 
 
 Chairman of IE DP Mase, secretary MA Pathak, chairman of   MD Date, president of Sinchan Sahayog SS Doifode and secretary UP Wankhede were present on the dais. 
 
 Bhole said, “Globally, over 80% of waster water generated by society flows back into the ecosystem without being treated or resused. 1.8 billion people use a source of drinking water contaminated with faeces, putting them at risk of contracting cholera, dysentery, typhoid and polio. Unsafe water, poor sanitation and hygiene cause around 84 lakh deaths every year.”
 
 According to him, waste water management is completely neglected and it should be seen as a resource rather than a burden to be disposed of. He said, “Water should be carefully managed at every stage, from fresh abstraction, pre-treatment, distribution, use, collection and post-treatment.” By 2030, global demand for water is expected to grow by 50%. Most of this demand will be in cities and will require new approaches to waste water collection and management. So, reused waste water may help in addressing other challenges, including food production and industrial development.
 
 Bhole spoke on how use of chemical fertilizers and pesticides had increased in recent years to maximize yields and meet demands. He said, “This makes agriculture a potential source of environmental pollution and it is a major issue in many developing countries where such irrigation is practised.” Farmers are increasingly looking for non–conventional water resources, mainly waste water, due to its high nutrient content. If applied safely, waste water is a valuable source of both, water and nutrients, he added.
 
 Better waste water management can improve health of workers by reducing the risk of pathogen exposure. It can also create direct and indirect jobs in water-dependant sectors and beyond, said Bhole.
 
 Doifode said, “On this day, we try to focus on the importance of fresh water and advocate sustainability of resources. The theme for this year is waste water.”
 
