DEHRADUN: The 5.8 magnitude earthquake that jolted many parts of North India and had its epicentre in  , has revived fears of a ‘mega-Himalayan earthquake’ in the region. Experts have been talking about a massive earthquake due in the Himalayan region for many years and questions have been asked whether the series of small tremors that the region has been experiencing is simply a run-up to the big one? Geologists have warned that the anticipated jolt could be of magnitude 8 and above and have the potential to wreck tremendous havoc. The precipitating factor could be a 700-km-long “central seismic gap” on the Himalayan front spanning the Uttarakhand region. The gap has not ruptured in any major earthquake in 200-500 years and it’s a matter of time before this pent-up energy is released, say experts.
 
  Elaborating on these concerns, Sushil Kumar, a scientist at the Doon-based Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology (WIHG), told TOI, “Four major earthquakes occurred in the Himalayan belt which included one in Assam in 1897, another in Kangra in 1905, on the Bihar–Nepal belt in 1934 and in Assam in 1950. All these tremors were of more than 8 magnitude. In a way, the pent-up energy is being released gradually over all these years but we really don’t know for sure if this pattern will continue and culminate in a major earthquake of high intensity.”
  
  Pointing out that it was difficult to predict an earthquake, AK Gupta, director, WIHG, said, “The Himalayas are an active mountain chain because the Indian tectonic plate, which is fractured and incoherent, is dynamic and moving. Sedimentary and fractured formation under the ground in the lesser Himalayan zones is responsible for the collective energy emanating through these fissures and causing earthquakes. In Uttarakhand, tremors of 4 to 4.5 magnitude have become common occurrences every year. However, no geologist can predict if a major earthquake is round the corner or not.”
  
  Nevertheless, the temblor of Monday night has unsettled many. “I had a terrible fright when my bed suddenly started shaking. Along with all my family members, I rushed out of the house. I shudder to imagine what would happen if a massive earthquake strikes the area,” said  , a college student.
  
  Meanwhile, the Geological Survey of India (GSI) is sending a team to Rudraprayag which will study the triggering factors, impact and gradient of vulnerability in the area in the aftermath of the Monday earthquake.  , director, GSI, said that Uttarakhand falls under zones 4 and 5 so the state “would always remain vulnerable to tremors.” ‘The key is in being better prepared. People are no longer building stone and wood houses which is why no damage to property and lives has happened despite the comparatively high magnitude of the earthquakes in the region.”
