From Arthur Road Jail, where he has been lod ged for almost a year, NCP leader Chhagan Bhujbal is keeping a watch on the ongoing budget session of the state legislature.The legislature secretariat recently released a booklet on amendments suggested by members on the motion of thanks to the governor's address. Of these amendments, Bhujbal has suggested nine. He expressed shock over the state's failure in declaring a loan waiver to farmers. The NCP leader also said that it was unfortunate that the governor's address did not take cognisance of the contribution made by Jyotirao Phule or of farmer suicides in Vidarbha and Marathwada regions owing to the agrarian crisis. Bhujbal, who had taken up the cause of OBC community , submitted that in the absence of a comprehensive survey , a large number of people from economically weaker sections and backward communities have been deprived of financial aid under government schemes. Further, he said the governor did not address the problems of housing for textile workers in Mumbai. It was expected that the governor would announce a Marathi Language University and unveil an action plan for rehabilitation of people in and around big cities. On March 14, 2016, Bhujbal, along with his nephew Sameer, was arrested by the Enforcement Directorate in the Maharashtra Sadan scam, while the state anticorruption bureau booked him in a disproportionate assets case. Since then Bhujbal has made many attempts to get bail, but failed.

 
 
 Chief minister   has been making all possible efforts to halt farmer suicides, but in vain due to the dismal performance of bureaucracy and ground-level staff. A year after he took over as the CM, Fadnavis asked farmers' leader   to draft an action plan to tackle the crisis. The CM even allowed him to prepare a policy and ensure that it is implemented in letter and spirit. On the advice of Tiwari, the government issued more than half a dozen orders for the welfare of farmers, but there was absolutely no respite. Last year, 3,052 farmers committed suicides across the state, while in January and February 2017, 268 farmers killed themselves. It was found that there was lack of consistency in the relief and rehabilitation department, which is responsible for implementing policies. Since Fadnavis became the CM, the department's head has changed several times, leading to lack of supervision at all levels. Though orders issued are quite impressive but there is no mechanism to ensure implementation. Barring a few collectors, no head of district administration took serious efforts to implement the orders. Fadnavis also drafted a scheme wherein guardian secretaries would monitor implementation of measures, but so far, there is no progress on that too. Says a former chief secretary , it's high time to mention in confidential records of the district-level bureaucrats the the initiative taken by himher to halt suicides.
 
 
 
 
 A quick look at the offences registered by the ACB over the last week leads one to believe that despite putting in place an online payment system, there is no end to corruption. It has been found that even after making online payments, citizens are being made to pay bribes to high-ranking officials, talathis, clerks or peons, to get orders issued. In Nanded, a social welfare officer and his assistant demanded Rs 21,000 for forwarding an application for financial assistance for inter-caste marriage. The applicant   had completed all formalities and the application was to be endorsed by a social welfare officer, who demanded the money. At Kolhapur Municipal Corporation, a peon demanded Rs 2000 for a copy of old records, which are available online, while in Palghar, a talathi sought money to make online changes to ownership of land records. In Thane, high-ranking officials of the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board demanded Rs 1.6 lakh to grant consent to a pharmaceutical firm.
 
