NEW DELHI: Perhaps inspired by US President  , AAP chief   today went on an extended rant against journalists for carrying what he called “paid/fake news”, after a media survey showed his party losing the upcoming   elections. And a la Trump, he did this on Twitter.

 “There are some (power) brokers walking around disguised as journalists. It is time they are named and exposed to the public,” Kejriwal tweeted last night. “Could this survey (result) be even possible unless someone’s been paid to carry it. This is the limit of shamelessness,” the Delhi chief minister tweeted.
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 Kejriwal’s party colleague   also tweeted about the survey which gave AAP only between 14 and 19 seats in the Punjab Assembly:
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 For AAP, the February 4 Punjab and Goa elections will determine whether it can emerge as a truly national party. 
 
 Kejriwal continued blasting the media today. When someone on Twitter suggested to Kejriwal that a “difference of opinion is entirely feasible”, he shot back, implying journalists just watch each other’s backs.
 
 “If your friends are engaged in such power-broking you call it a ‘difference of opinion’. If we raise our voice against injustices, we are called wrong,” he said.
 
  
  
 Then, he and party colleague Ashutosh tweeted each other agreeing with what the other said.
 
 Ashutosh: “When we called politicians corrupt, the media was thrilled. Now, when we expose the media’s corruption, our journalist friends don’t like it.”
 
 
  
  
 Kejriwal’s reply: “Just like the BJP and the Akali Dal protect each other, journalists are protecting other journalists.” In referring to the BJP and the   (SAD) – who are in an electoral alliance in Punjab – Kejriwal was regurgitating an earlier allegation that the two parties have “looted Punjab” in concert. In fact, Kejriwal believes the   and the SAD also have some sort of secret deal going on.
 
 
  
  
 
 The Delhi chief minister then said “it’s time the media’s corruption is discussed openly, by naming names. Who has how much wealth, who has invested in which TV channel.”
 
 
  
 
 And all of this before it was even noon.
 
 
 
 
