
The CM says corruption is “a very mild term“ to describe the extent of kickbacks in contracts given out by the Shiv Sena-controlled BMC. Mehta's report on key deals provided startling findings, he says, and has prompted him to initiate criminal proceedings against both officers and contractors.
 
 In an interview to TOI, Fadnavis spoke on his plan to instill more transparency in BMC and the future of BJP's ties with the Sena. Excerpts:
 
 
 
 A: That's not the correct situation. Negotiations on seatsharing were in progress, we were insisting on 110-115 seats, while   offered us less than 60. It was not acceptable, and we were waiting for a communication when we were told that Shiv Sena has unilaterally terminated the alliance.
 
 
 
 A: Not in the recent past.When negotiations were in progress, he did speak to me.Then his contention was that BJP should concentrate at the national and state level and leave Mumbai to the Sena.That was not possible...In my opinion, it is the first time in the state's recent history that Sena's been challenged and that too in Mumbai. Until now, there was tacit understanding between   and Sena.In fact, Congress and NCP never contested the BMC polls seriously . I am sure we`ll im prove our performance and secure a majority in BMC and neighbouring TMC too. For Sena, it's a question of prestige, the BMC gives it bread and butter. That is not the case with BJP , which is a national party.
 
 
 
 A: It will not be a referendum but certainly , it will clearly indicate whether the policies drafted by my government have been accepted by people.In BMC, local issues are important and people exercise their franchise on the basis of quality of service offered by the local body.
 
 
 
 
 A: I found that corruption has taken deep root in BMC owing to the contractor-politician nexus. I am not focusing on the amount; it will be more than the annual budget of several states. From a preliminary probe, we found the quality of 30 roads taken up for tests were in a very bad condition.Against a life of 20-25 years, the roads did not survive beyond 2 and a half to 3 years.Later, we found the condition of 200 roads across the state was very bad, there was no concrete at all. I personally studied the tenders, found that in most cases tenders were allotted (on bids) at 25 per cent below the cost of the project.Unless there is underhand dealing, no contractor will quote below 25 per cent price. I have asked Mehta to conduct a comprehensive probe and submit a report as early as possible.
 
 
 
 
 A: There have been restrictive practices. As a result, only a few contractors were eligible to secure work. There was no audit for the last 7 years, no plan for handling solid waste and sewage treatment. I want to bring in total transparency in tendering, prepare an action plan for treatment of sewage and above all, make bureaucrats more accountable. I will call for a quarterly report from the municipal commissioner.
 
 
 
 A: There is no scope for midterm polls, I will complete the 5-year term in any eventuality.In my opinion, following the split, BJP will be the biggest beneficiary.
 
 
 
 A: Indeed, it's unfortunate. It's a fact that the Prime Minister was directly targeted by Shiv Sena. I never expected it. It's in bad taste. I think that Uddhav is directly targeting Modi out of frustration.
 
 
 
 A: That is wrong. As a home minister, I have information. I have been informed that Sena has fielded the largest number of criminals, followed by MNS and Congress. BJP picked a few candidates who are facing minor criminal cases.
 
