CHENNAI: Asserting that the DMK was his political enemy, sidelined AIADMK leader T T V Dhinakaran said that `his party' would not align with M K  's DMK now or in the future. He said he would go to any extent to protect the party, as popular sentiment among the oneand-a-half crore cadres and the people was to end the rule of the “treacherous“ EPS government.

 The reaction comes in the midst of a sustained campaign of the EPS-OPS camp against the TTV faction that it was hand-in-glove with the DMK to topple the government. The allegations resonated at the general council meeting convened by the unified party on Tuesday, when jailed leader   was expelled from the post of general secretary. “That is incorrect. How can we go with them (DMK)? Not today, not in the future. They are our enemies and we have to fight them. They are our political enemies,“ Dhinakaran told reporters, at his Adyar residence in Chennai. He clarified that they were `political and not personal enemies.“
 
 His rivals in the unified camp, however, have used it to discredit the TTV camp. K P Munusamy, a voracious critic of the Sasikala clan, said Dhinakaran was all out to take revenge and was looking for parties like the DMK to team up with. “He is working on destabilising the government installed by Amma, by aligning with her opponents,“ said Munusamy, nominated by the general council to be deputy coordinator of the steering com mittee. Earlier this month, V K Dhivakaran, Sasikala's brother, surprised his own partymen by announcing that MLAs supporting Dhinakaran will participate in DMK's all-party meet on NEET at the party's HQ Anna Arivalayam. But Dhinakaran later denied any such move.
 
 Hardening his stance, Dhinakaran, who had been demanding that chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami be replaced, has now threatened to topple the government, presumably with the help of DMK's 89 MLAs. Stalin had pointed out that along with his MLAs and those of his allies, besides the TTV rebels, those opposing the EPS government add up to 119 MLAs. “Both (TTV and DMK) have taken a similar stand,“ said K C Palanisamy, former MP and a senior leader of OPS camp. Incidentally, the OPS faction voted against the EPS govern ment during the trust vote in February. TTV's deadline for governor C Vidyasagar Rao to act against the 'minority' EPS government ends on Thursday.
 
 The DMK camp is thrilled. “The EPS government has fallen short of a majority. If someone moves a no-confidence motion now, we will support them. Having said that, we have no truck with any faction of the AIADMK,“ said DMK spokesperson T K S Elangovan.Senior ministers say that the hidden agenda of TTVDMK combine would not succeed and the government would embark on a mission to gain strength by way of numbers. The unified EPSOPS camp is gearing up to take action against the 19 dissidents under the anti-defection laws. They have been asked to appear before speaker P Dhanapal to explain their stand on Thursday.
 
