AMRAVATI: A total of 32,644 graduates and 29 diploma holders will be awarded degrees and diplomas at the 33rd   of Sant Gadgebaba Amaravati University here on February 23.

 Informing this at a press conference on Monday, Vice Chancellor Dr Murlidhar Chandekar said that 105 gold medals, 22 silver medals and 24 cash prizes will be given away to the meritorious students. He further added that 456 research students will be awarded Ph. D. degrees while two will be awarded D. SC. Degrees.
 
 Dr. Chandekar informed that Padmabhushan Vijay Bhatkar, Vice Chancellor, Nalanda University, Rajgir in Bihar, will be chief guest and deliver convocation address while Maharashtra Governor and Chancellor Ch.   Rao will preside over. The convocation ceremony will begin at 11am.
 
 Chandekar said that a grand sculpture of   has been erected in front of the varsity gate and it will be unveiled at the hands of the governor at 10am. He said that the sculpture has been erected at a cost of Rs. 74.85 lakhs, including Rs. 42 lakhs incurred on Gadgebaba’s message sculpture (Sandesh Shilpa). He said that the governor would also inaugurate the new building of Physics department, constructed at a cost of Rs. 8 crore in the varsity campus while a book written by Vijay Bhatkar on the life and work of Sant Gulabrao Maharaj will be released at the hands of the guests.
 
 The V-C also said that the varsity would be organizing Marathi Bhasha Gaurav Din on February 27 at Sant Dnyaneshwar sanskritik Bhavan from 11am to 9pm. “The daylong activities would include book exhibition, granth dindi, lecture by Dr. Akshay Kumar Kale on ‘Future of Marathi Language’ and a cultural programme,” Chandekar informed.
 
 Coming from a poor farmer’s family, Pradnya Ravindra Sarode, an M. A. student of Sant Gadgebaba   University PG Department of Marathi, has carved a niche for herself and did her family proud. The moderate girl is all set to receive the highest number of five gold medals, including that of Chancellor’s, at the 33rd convocation of the varsity on Wednesday.
 
 A native of village Khanapur near Nandgaonpeth here, Pradnya is the only girl from her village to complete eduction up to M.A. “ Girl students of my village are not allowed to go to Amravati for higher education. They are married off once they pass their Std. XII,” she told ToI, adding, ”I am very grateful to my elder brother, who quit his education after XII to enable me complete my education. More than my parents, it was his dream that I should study, which enabled me to complete my M.A. I am indebted to him for his sacrifice.”
 
 Born and brought up in a farmer’s family, Pradnya’s father and brother do farming on their two-acre piece of land. ”The financial condition at home is so-so. Had my brother continued his education, I would have to discontinue mine. But my brother decided to focus on agriculture and let me prosecute my higher studies.”
 
 “I chose Marathi because I found it a subject that shapes life. Every day, new literature pours in, which teaches you different shades of life. I love reading and read a lot. I also love watching movies but I have never been to a cinema hall. I watch them on TV, but couldn’t get time to do that in last couple of years,” she said frankly.
 
 “My immediate goal is to procure a job and then go for my Ph.D.,” Pradnya said adding,” I want to be an IAS officer and am preparing for it,” he said.
 
 What does she think about Marathi.” Well, it’s very enriching language. As a mothertongue, it has ben neglected. Everyone should learn it in a grammatical way. Marathi should be loved by all native speakers.”
 
