JAIPUR: The Jaipur district’s rural area have slid to number 3 in the construction of toilets under clean india campaign(rural) in the recently released ranking. In the year 2016 it has topped in the country while this year district’s rural area has bagged number 3 position in the construction of toilets under Clean India Mission in its rural category. It excluded the areas under   and 10 Nagar Palikas and included almost 20 gram panchayats of the district.

 TOI had run a campaign in which it was shown how people living in colonies and slums in   near legislative assembly and Jawahar Nagar continue to relieve themselves in the open. Many community toilets built around the city remained locked and unusable.
 
 However, as per the recent survey which was on rural parts of the country, Jaipur district’s rural area is at number 3 position by constructing 5,40,785 toilets since 2013-14 when the Clean India Mission was launched. “Jaipur (Rural) district is ahead of other districts in the state in construction of toilets. In the country, 24 Parganas (West Bengal) is at the top position by constructing 5,98,000 toilets while Murshidabad (West Bengal) is at number 2 position. Not only that, our targeted construction and what we have achieved is just double and triple of the targets of other districts including Bharatpur which is targeting to construct 2,89,714 toilets or Barmer which is targeting 3,59,670,” said  , district collector, Jaipur on Sunday.
 
 In the year 2016 Jaipur ‘s rural area was first in the country by constructing maximum number of toilets under Swach Bharat Mission(Gramin) (Clean India Campaign, Rural). 
 
 He added that the number of toilets constructed in Jaipur district is double than the total target of a district like Chittorgarh and Tonk. Officials added that Jaipur district has got a target of constructing 5,80,310 toilets. “We are hoping to achieve the target of making 40,000 more toilets by November 14 this year,” he added.
 
 Mahajan also praised the efforts of various gram panchayats and authorities as 3,40,000 toilets out of the total figure were constructed between September, 2016 and September, 2017 alone.
 
 At many community and personal toilets situated at Dudu and Pavta areas, wall paintings with messages on cleanliness have also been designed.
 
 
