JAIPUR: Normally they would have passed off as a group that’s just stepped out from office for an engagement of some kind. But this conglomeration of the women were out on the streets on Thursday had something else in mind. No sooner had they come on to the Tonk road they blocked traffic on took to protesting the numerous   shops that have sprouted by the road side.

 Not to be cowed down when the cops appeared after some time, one even went to the extent of gripping the collar of the   SHO and literally pushed him. The policeman was taken aback. “We will not let any single liquor shop to run in our locality,” shouted a woman. 
 
 Far from rural areas of the state that has been witness to such acts by women in veils, protests against liquor shops are fast filling in the urban landscape and this time office going women to lawyers to schools kids and their ilk. Infact, since the past month 70 such protests have been recorded in the capital alone -- a far cry, from the days when former MLA Gurusharan Chabbra ex-MLA died following a hunger strike demanding ban on liquor and tobacco in 2015. There was not much reaction then. 
 
 But things suddenly changed after after the Uttar Pradesh polls. On Thursday ugly scenes were witnessed outside the Jaipur municipal Corporation (JMC) office near Bapu Nagar when the group of woman blocked the traffic demanding liquor ban and man-handled the on duty officer Surender Kumar. However, there were also allegations from the women that the officer had initially pushed them. Meanwhile, in the evening responding legally to the act police registered a named FIR against eight women and four women.
 
 “We have registered a named case against 12 persons including eight woman and four men under section 353(Assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) and other relevant sections of IPC,” said Kunwar Rastradeep, Deputy Commissioner of police(East). 
 
 In a similar protest a large number of children from a school situated at   area organised a sit in dharna against liquor ban.
 
