PATIALA: It seems that measures taken by authorities to challan violators of the ban on crop burning in the state are hardly proving to be a deterrent as farmers continue to set their fields on fire to get rid of the stubble. And as a result, train movement had to bear the brunt on Tuesday. 

 Railway authorities suspended movement in the   section for over an hour after farm fire from a nearby field reached the station creating mayhem. While, the   had to be halted for 20 minutes, another passenger train was stop for over half an hour.
 
 Fire tenders from Patiala and Rajpura were rushed to the   to bring the situation under control, after which the traffic on the track was restored. Railway authorities said that fire had reached near the tracks because of which trains could not be passed. 
 
 Following this fire alert one tender each from Patiala and Rajpura reached the site to douse the flames after which normal traffic movement was restored.
 
 The   government had on April 1 started using satellite imagery and facilities of the Punjab Remote Sensing Centre to identify geo-spatial spots were crop is set on fire and take action against farmers after alerting the district monitoring committees in real time.
 
 However, a visit to the Kauli village on the   on Tuesday revealed that these measures had failed. “The farmers maintain that alternate to stubble burning were financial unviable and until government chips in with more subsidies, they have little option but to set the residues on fire,” said Mahinder Singh, a local farmer who was passing near the burnt farm.
 
 Dr Charanjit Singh, Deputy Senior Scientific office of the Punjab Pollution Control board said that while the details of the challans were being complied, action was being taken against farmers found violating the norms. He said that the National Green Tribunal was very clear over the issue and farmers should understand that burning crops only leads to health risks and affect soil fertility and should stop this practice immediately.
 
