GALLE: Ravi Shastri seems all fired up to begin his second innings as India coach with a bang. Re-appointed after leg spin great   quit in controversial circumstances, the former India all-rounder and commentator wants to make a statement on his first tour itself.

 The forthcoming Test series against Sri Lanka may not generate much excitement as the hosts hardly boast of any starpower now. However, the determined pair of captain-coach are aware that they're under pressure to deliver right away given what has transpired in the recent past and they do not want to leave anything to chance.
 
 It's learnt that the duo adopted innovative methods to prepare the batsmen ahead of the first Test, which commences here from July 26. In what surely must be a first, even as a few Indian batsmen were collecting some useful runs in the two-day warm-up game against President's XI at the CCC grounds Colombo, their colleagues were simultaneously batting in the nets, instead of waiting for their turn for a hit in the middle. "This will enable the batsmen to get into the groove as soon as possible," a source told TOI.
 
 Apparently, a similar exercise was undertaken to ensure that the bowlers hit their straps quickly too. "Immediately after the practice match was over on Saturday afternoon, all the bowlers went through a rigorous 90-minute net session at the ground," he informed.
 
 The extra time put in practice may benefit the Indian team, which was given a wet welcome in the southern city, thanks to rain, to be better prepared in case their net sessions are washed out.
 
 This new batting practice routine that Shastri and Kohli experimented with during India's warm up is similar to what the Australian team did in 2008 in India, when former Australian skipper and India coach   helped the team prepare for the tough four-Test our which Australia lost 0-2.
 
 In his first press conference upon landing in Sri Lanka, Kohli had made it clear that he won't take he hosts, who suffered another blow on the eve of the Test when senior batsman  , just named as the Test captain, was ruled out of the first Test after being diagnosed with pneumonia, lightly.
 
 "Sri Lanka are very strong at home and that is something we are aware about. It is something we will always keep in our minds throughout this tour," Kohli had said. It must be noted here that only last year Sri Lanka beat then No. 1 ranked Australia side 3-0.
 
 Meanwhile, the Sri Lankan team sweated it out for three hours at the scenic   here on Sunday morning. Like India, the hosts too have seen the support staff change with former South Africa wicketkeeper-batsman Nic Pothas, who was the fielding coach of the team, being appointed the interim coach after Graham Ford quit the job, following the team's groupstage exit at the Champions Trophy early this month.
 
 The bowlers were being guided by left-arm pace great  , who's replaced Champaka Ramanayake as the bowling coach.
 
 A key figure 'missing in action' was former Galle stadium curator  , who was suspended by the   ( ) early last year for three years after the former Test player failed to cooperate with anti-corruption officials during an investigation. 
 
