MUMBAI: A 28-year-old city woman injured in a 2011 road mishap has been granted Rs 60.56 lakh as compensation by a  . In what is a rare instance, the MACT has included in the payout Rs 2 lakh for “loss of future marriage prospects”. 

 “It is clear that due to the injuries she has missed out on marriage prospects. Hence, an amount of Rs 2 lakh is awarded towards loss of marriage prospects,” the tribunal said on Saturday. 
 
 The woman, who was a grade A student doing her first-year BCom, was knocked down by a speeding car on November 1, 2011, in front of her grandfather and sister, resulting in brain and pelvic injuries that needed hospitalisation for over a month. The injuries have now limited the woman’s physical and mental capacities.
 
 The woman filed an application before the tribunal in December 2011 against the alleged car owner, Less Oil & Natural Gas Corporation Ltd, and the insurer, ICICI Lombard General Insurance Co Ltd. The victim said while she was crossing the Sion-Trombay Road near Somaiya ground at around 8am on November 1, 2011, when the car came from Chembur towards Sion in a “rash manner” and hit her from behind, resulting in her serious injuries. After being treated at Sion Hospital, she was shifted to a hospital in her hometown Meerut, where she was admitted from December 9, 2011, till January 9, 2012. Her treatment continued at a specialised neurology hospital until October 2012. 
 
 The woman told the tribunal that due to the injuries, she was under severe pain and unable to do her daily work with the same stamina and power as prior to the accident. She also complained that she was unable to attend college. The doctor, who deposed on the nature of the injuries, explained that it was a “generalized injury to the brain, affecting motor function, thought function, memory and speech functions, leading to hampering of normal day-to-day activities”. The doctor described it as “the most severe injury before death” and said the victim had to depend on her relatives for her daily activities. 
 
 The company denied that it owned the car. Claiming that it had only leased the vehicle, it said there was no liability against it. The insurance company denied the car’s involvement in the accident. The court, however, said the FIR revealed that the road was 60-ft-wide and despite the sufficient space, the driver had failed to take reasonable care and caution.
 
 
