In the build-up to  , the dining table, where the family gathers, will play host to various preparations, all significant of Christ’s death and rising to new life. But this said, there’s no denying that these make for wonderful holiday indulgence! So, we decided to head out on an   hunt of our own, and boy, were we spoilt for choice!

 
 
 Giving into her cravings for some warm, home-crafted bread, chef and food blogger Sneha Bhave is planning a real bread feast or sorts at home, this time. 
 She’ll start with Pane di Pasqua: traditional Italian Easter bread. “It’s sweeter than regular bread,” says Sneha, who admits that the dough takes longer to ferment owing to its rich consistency of milk and sugar. The highlight, however, is the coloured egg that the dough is braided around. “The raw egg needs to be dyed before braiding and putting the bread for baking,” says Sneha. Since it contains sugar, the bread tends to brown faster, so keep a watchful eye, she warns. Throw a generous lot of raisins into the dough for more taste and texture. For garnish, silver sugar sprinkles would seal the deal.
 Next up are some fine jam orchocolate-filled   rolls (a fancy spin-off from dinner rolls). But stuffing the dough demands precision. “Make sure there are no creases from which the filling can ooze out. You also need to be quick with shaping; there’s no time for retakes!” says Sneha, adding that thick custard could be another option for the filling.
 Those who prefer something more savoury could make these rolls with sour dough. But Sneha’s bunny with a cooling yogurt dip (spiced with crushed black pepper corn, green or red chilly flakes, mint leaves and grated cheese) might be worth a try, too.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 After everyone at home said they’d skip the   and marzipan and be more health-conscious this time, home baker Shradha Menon has decided to bake some wheat cookies for a change. She says, “Making them isn’t difficult, though the rising temperature can give you quite a tough time!” Keeping in mind the symbols of the season, all significant of new life, Shradha is fashioning her cookies to look like eggs, bunnies and chicks. “I’ll top them with royal icing and fondant art,” she adds.
 But if making these healthy Easter treats sounds like a task, Fedora Fernandes’ healthy Easter goodies are your saving grace. “We’re excited to be doing healthy treats for the first time. All of them will be sugar, dairy and gluten-free,” says Fedora. 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 They might be ‘one a penny, two a penny’; but there’s reason why the golden-glazed hot cross buns are synonymous with Good Friday (which was observed yesterday).
 Food blogger Hilda Mascarenhas, who specialises in Goan cuisine, says, “After forty days of fast and prayer, these buns are made to symbolise that Lent is over and we now look forward to Easter.” Containing milk, sugar and a generous lot of currants or raisins, the highlight, however, is the cross marking each bun, a reminder of Christ’s death on the cross.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 Before you set out on an Easter goodie-buying spree, you might want to take a look at some of the most adorable creations we came across…
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 (Pics: Nikhil Vidyasagar and Hilda's Touch of Spice)
