NEW DELHI:   on Wednesday urged BSP supremo   to withdraw her resignation from the  , with deputy chairman P J Kurien holding that “a misunderstanding” led to her getting upset for not being allowed to speak on atrocities against Dalits.

 Mayawati had quit Rajya Sabha on Tuesday after getting angry over Kurien asking her to conclude her speech on the violence in Saharanpur after the prescribed three minutes. “None of us are happy about her resigning. I have utmost respect for her. It was just a misunderstanding. We all have a lot of respect for her and regard her as a senior leader. The House will ask her to reconsider her decision,” Kurien said.
 
 Kurien said Mayawati had not given notice about being included among the eight or nine speakers on the issue under Rule 267. “I want to set the record straight... When I came, I saw her standing and gave her three minutes (to speak)... I bypassed the leader of opposition and allowed her to speak,” he said. Leader of opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad said Mayawati should be requested to reconsider her resignation.
 
 MoS for parliamentary affairs Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi too indicated that the government had no objection if all parties wanted Mayawati to return to the upper House.
 
 BSP member Satish Chandra Misra said the treasury benches had been instructed to obstruct Mayawati when she stood up to speak.
 
 “They did not allow her to speak. She spoke for two minutes and nine seconds in breaks and would have even finished in three minutes,” he said.
 
 Top opposition leaders had thrice tried to dissuade Mayawati from resigning on Tuesday but she refused to relent, leading most to believe that she was unlikely to return to the House.
 
 Many viewed the resignation as Mayawati’s attempt to find an issue to rally her support base of Dalits. After the poor performance in the recent UP assembly polls and with BJP working aggressively, BSP is seen to be faced with an existential threat with a need to consolidate Dalits.
 
 A senior leader said the resignation could pave the way for non-BJP parties — SP, BSP and Congress — to come together to form a “grand alliance” for the 2019 polls.
 
 There is speculation that Mayawati may contest the Lok Sabha bypoll for Phulpur seat vacated by former BJP MP Keshav Maurya who is now the UP deputy CM.
 
 Meanwhile, RJD chief Lalu Prasad offered a Rajya Sabha seat to Mayawati, saying if she agreed, his party would help her get elected. 
 
 
