MYSURU: Former MP Adagooru H Vishwanath should have taken up issues within the party forum instead of raising them in public, which will not serve the purpose, former minister and KPCC vice-president BK Chandrashekar said on Thursday. 

  While indicating that Vishwanath is leaving the party, Chandrashekar, who is KPCC in-charge of Mysuru district, said that the former MP should have fought within the available platforms within the party. 
 
  "Vishwanath is a senior party leader. He should have tried to resolve the issues he had within the party," he told reporters, and disapproved of his public criticism of party leaders. There is internal democracy in the party and senior leaders, including B  , should utilize it, he said. 
 
  Chandrashekar had held a meeting with Congress leaders along with AICC secretary P C Vishnunath, when the latter visited the city earlier this week, and discussed the possible fallout after former MP Vishwanath's imminent exit from the party. 
 
  The Congress is focusing on strengthening the party in the CM's home district, and has devised strategies to tackle the situation after Vishwanath's possible departure later this month. 
 
  However, Chandrashekar said Vishwanath should not quit the party. He said he respects Vishwanath and former minister V Srinivasa Prasad, who should not have quit the Congress and pushed Nanjangud towards a bypoll. 
 
  He said the appointment of a new KPCC chief is not a matter of importance to him. "It is not an earth-shattering development," he stated, and said he doesn't want to talk about it. 
 
  Lobby for KPCC chief 
 
  Nanjangud Block Congress Committee's ST unit has demanded that Chamarajanagar MP R Dhruvanarayana should be appointed KPCC president. 
 
  General secretary of the ST unit Heda tale Shivakumar told reporters that Dhruvanarayan is a mass leader who represents the dalit community in Old Mysuru region. He is a skilled organizer and the party should utilize and reward him, he stated, pointing out his involvement in the bypoll to Nanjangud and Gundlupet assembly segments last month. The Congress won both segments as the MP involved himself and strengthened the party from the grass root level, Shivakumar said. Dhruvanarayana has served as MLA twice and elected MP for a second term, and is young and capable, he argued. 
 
  'Farm loan waiver not possible' 
 
  Chandrashekar said it is not possible for any party to waive farm loans, but asked the three major political parties in the state to jointly devise a strategy to attend to farmers' issues. 
 
  Referring to the claims of JD(S) state unit chief   and  's B S Yeddyurappa that they will waive farm loans if voted to power, he said: "They are misleading the people. It is not possible to waive loans of Rs 52,000 crore. Instead, we should join hands and devise a strategy to attend to farmers and seek the Centre's help. 
 
  According to him, nationalized banks have lent Rs 42,000 crore to farmers while the cooperative sector has extended Rs 10,000 crore. 
 
  After losing to Congress in the bypolls, the BJP has made it a focal theme of their campaign while the JD(S) too is promising to waive farm loans. But they lack clarity on the issue, he said, arguing that PM   has also disapproved of the Uttar Pradesh government's move to waiv e farm loans after Yogi Aditya Nath came to power. 
 
