PANAJI: Amazed at the crowds at campaign rallies for “popular” politicians? It would be advisable to take a closer look at the enthusiastic faces waving those banners and listening rapturously.
 
  Notwithstanding the surgical strike on unaccounted cash, paid crowds continue to make a quick buck in the run-up to the February 4 state assembly elections.
  
  For 42-year-old single mother Swati, the Rs 2,000 that she earns to gather local women and children for a political rally or campaign helps augment the meagre income she earns as a house help. The women are paid anywhere between Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 for their presence, Swati says.
  
  She has already arranged crowds for two right-leaning parties, and a regional party that is a new entrant in the Goan political scene.
  
  Crowd strength has often been considered as an indication of the popularity of political parties. A large mass of people enthusiastically waving banners and dancing can sway voters sitting on the fence, say political strategists.
  
  The crowd members are carefully calibrated. Unemployed youth, children out to earn some pocket money, and housewives keen to meet their household expenses, are all up for hire if the money is right.
  
  The idea of paying for an excited audience buys into the belief that a political campaign’s fortunes are rooted in the creation of a buzz, which can then bring in media coverage, which, in turn, could morph into real support.
  
  “It is party workers that usually work for the candidate. But when a senior functionary from the Centre comes, other party people are roped in for a fee to project a bigger crowd. Sometimes, migrants who don’t even speak the language are brought in,” Nandesh, who works as a driver for a private company, says.
  
  If cash is in short supply, food and drinks fill in the blanks.
  
  One such slum dweller from north Goa could not stop talking about the good time she and her husband and neighbours had at a rally held across the constituency, where softdrinks, snacks and beers went around freely in exchange for shouting a few slogans in endorsing the candidate.
  
  Distribution of money or freebies to those brought in to augment the crowd is not a recent phenomenon, a fact that is widely acknowledged in Goa. Delhi chief minister and   (AAP) national convener   recently found himself in hot water after he encouraged people at a public rally to accept money from rival political parties.
  
  “During earlier elections, there used to be several people, the “fixer” types, who would help arrange crowds. Now, with mobile phones having cameras and social media, political parties are a little more cautious, but it still happens,” a former panch member from Chandor said.
  
  Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s shock ban on high-value banknotes on November 8 reportedly served as a body blow to the war chests of several political rivals, but, if people are to be believed, the problem persists.
  
  “Every time I step out, my neighbours look at me as if I have eaten their money. The party says that due to the frequent police checks, the money cannot be transported,” Swati says, explaining her predicament over not being able to make immediate payments to the crowds she arranges for political rallies.
  
  Right or wrong, the crowd fixers must be given credit for loyalty. Despite campaigning for several parties, these “crowd managers” claim that they will vote for the same candidate who has helped them for years.
