MADURAI: The Madurai bench of the Madras high court on Wednesday refused to accept the state   that only 17 farmers have committed suicide in Tamil Nadu due to recent  .

 “We had been watching media reports, as per which the number of farmers committing suicide was much higher. Please file a fresh report about the death of farmers,“ a division bench said.
 
 The bench also directed the central government to file a report on steps taken to provide relief to the state government.
 
 The division bench, comprising justice A Selvam and justice P Kalaiyarasan, was hearing a public interest litigation filed by KKC Balaganesan of Sivakasi. The petitioner had sought direction to the Union cabinet secretary , secretaries of finance and agriculture and farmers welfare ministries to declare Tamil Nadu as drought-affected and demanded Rs 20,000 crore as drought relief. The petitioner also sought direction to the state's chief secretary and agriculture secretary to provide Rs 50,000 per acre as drought relief to all farm ers in the state, besides 30 lakh to the legal heirs of the farmers who committed suicide due to crop failure.
 
 The state government lawyer submitted a report before the bench, which said that the state usually receives 440mm rain during the northeast monsoon from October 1 to December 31. “But, it received only 168.3mm rain this time. There was a reduction in rainfall from 35% to 81% in all 32 districts. Of the state's 16,682 revenue villages, 13,305 villages were affected and out of that, 87% of agriculture land was affected in 1,564 villages,“ the lawyer said.
 
 Pointing out the welfare measures launched by the state government for farmers, the lawyer said that 17 farmers committed suicide in 11 districts from November due to various reasons.
 
 “They included three farmers from Thiruvarur, two each from Erode, Nagapattinam, Thanjavur and Madurai and one each from Cuddalore, Tuticorin, Dindigul, Thiruppur, Tirunelveli and Villuppuram.The government issued orders to provide 3 lakh each to the families of the deceased after considering their plight,“ the lawyer said.
 
