JAIPUR: The state assembly resumed work on a fairly peaceful note on Monday, though some Opposition members did try to raise the   (SBC) quota issue without the speaker’s permission during zero hour. Social justice and empowerment minister Arun Chaturvedi and Parliamentary affairs minister Rajendra Rathore effectively countered the opposition members who stepped into the well demanding a government reply. The opposition was firmly told to raise the issue under the house rules if it wanted a reply.

 During the question hour, the opposition and the treasury benches got into arguments when Congress legislator from Sanchore, Sukhram Vishnoi demanded compensation against Centre’s ‘note-ban’ order of November 2016. Vishnoi reasoned that farmers had to throw away their agriculture produce like vegetables and fruits on the roads as there were no buyers due ‘note-ban’, which drained away cash from the citizens.
 
 Disaster management and relief minister Gulab Chand Kataria, who was then responding to a question on compensations to farmers hit by natural calamities, took a swipe at Vishnoi and said, “Who suffered because of ‘note-ban’, you know it well.”
 
 Kataria informed the house that the ‘girdawari’ report on crop damage assessment would be received on March 5 and the state government would accordingly compensate the farmers. The minister said crop damage above 33% has also been included in the ‘girdawari’ report. “Of the Rs 1713-cr allotted to state for Kharif 2072, Rs 1482-cr (86%) has already been paid online in all districts to farmers with 50% crop damage or more,” Kataria said. He added, “Similarly, of Rs 63.54-cr for Rabi 2072, Rs 23.82-cr have been paid till February 22.”
 
 The minister said crop loss due to cold wave or frost was earlier not entitled for compensation against natural calamities but these have now been included. Kataria said, as per the collectors’ reports, three districts (Alwar, Kota, Sirohi) were hit by cold wave and 11 districts were hit by hailstorm.
 
 Project tiger to end by Dec 2018 
 
 In response to another question,   said that reintroduction of tigers to   would be completed by December 2018. The department was developing grasslands and introducing herbivorous animals for survival of tigers there, the minister said.
 
 Khimsar added, “We are working out a package that would be so lucrative that villagers in the reserve area will be eager to get relocated. The package introduced in 2002 was amended in 2008 but, as long time has lapsed, we will bring a new package.” Of the 14 villages to be relocated, two have been relocated, the minister said.
 
 Later, replying to MLA Shakuntla Rawat’s adjournment motion, the forest minister said children of persons killed in leopard attacks at Sariska were being trained as ‘nature guides’ to earn a living. Khimsar said the kin of deceased were given Rs 2 lakh from Sariska Foundation, in addition to the Rs 2 lakh given by the state government.
 
 Uproar in House over bribe remark 
 
 There was uproar in House when Independent MLA Hanuman Beniwal remarked that officials of Ambuja Cements Ltd claim paying bribes to ministers and state government personnel to get extensions for setting up a plant at Mundwa in Nagaur district. Parliamentary affairs minister Rathore objected to the remark and demanded its expulsion from the House proceedings. The Speaker, however, let the remark remain when Beniwal said the allegation was not against anyone in particular.
 
 Industries minister Rajpal Singh said the company had been trying to set up a cement plant in Nagaur since 1986 but could never get enough land from the state government. “Successive Congress and BJP governments have, therefore, been giving extensions to the company for setting up the plant,” Singh said. As per the latest MoU signed in September 1, 2006, the plant was to be set by December 31, 2008. “On December 12, 2016, the company requested for another extension till December 31, 2019. The government is considering it but we will ensure that the plant is set up soon,” the minister said.
 
 ‘Bring ordinance for Tonga race’
 
 During Zero Hour, Independent MLA Hanuman Beniwal asked the state government to permit Tonga races in Nagaur district during Tejaji Fair or face public disobedience similar to that witnessed in Tamil Nadu for Jallikattu (bull race).
 
 Beniwal said the government stopped the traditional Tonga races in 2015 just because the high court asked it to examine if there were cruelties committed against the horses. “High court did not ask the government to ban these races,” the MLA said. Beniwal went on to challenge the government saying, “It is a matter of people’s faith. The race will take place this September during Tejaji Fair, whether the government allows it or not. He added, “If the government fails to bring an ordinance by September, the state will witness Jallikattu like protests.”
 
 Debate on Guv’s address
 
 The debate on Governor Kalyan Singh’s address, delivered at the start of the   on February 23, began on Monday. On day one, however, the legislators from Congress as well as BJP spoke mostly on Centre government’s decision about demonetisation and Army’s surgical strikes against Pakistan. The legislators barely touched issues related to the state or their constituencies.
 
