KOCHI: How about travelling to the historic Cochin   railway station built in 1943, by the first week of April, on the   (Memu) passenger train, currently running between Angamaly and Piravom? It might be the first train chugging into the station after a gap of more than a decade.

 But since only diesel engine trains can run on this track, electric engine in the Memu will be replaced with a diesel one at the  .
 
 The railway officials are working on a new timetable to adjust the current train timings so that the service can be extended up to Harbour Terminus. There will be two services per day, one in the morning and another in the evening. The facility will mainly benefit West Kochi residents and tourists travelling to   and Fort Kochi. 
 
 The renovation work on the 74-year-old railway station is undergoing in a fast pace. The train service to the station was stopped when the Navy objected to the move to electrify the five km track a decade ago. 
 
 “Only diesel engines can be used in the train, the service of which will be extended to the Harbour Terminus. The final decision on operating the Memu service to the renovated station would be made in February end. We are yet to fix the timing of train services to the renovated station,” area manager R Harikrishnan said.
 
 If the service of more trains have to be extended to the Harbour station, the track needs to be electrified mainly because there are hardly any diesel engine trains in Kerala. “Railways is against extensive use of diesel engine as it is not good for the environment,” said a railway official.
 
 To accommodate trains (with most of them having 18 coaches), the railways have also increased the length of the platform from 300m to 530m. The old platform could accommodate only 10 coach trains.
 
 Most of the passengers from this station will be the employees working in   and surrounding areas and the train timing will be based on that, a railway official said. Officials said that they have got several requests from passengers asking them to divert the train from Piravom on Kottayam route to reach Ernakulam Junction and then take a diversion to Cochin Harbour Terminus. From there it would return to Ernakulam Junction and proceed to Angamaly and vice-versa. “We are studying the proposal,” said a railway official.
 
 Currently the work on rooftop of the extended platform, painting, digging ducts for laying cables and other works are underway at the station. The officials are also re-laying sleepers on the 2.6 km track from Mattancherry to the Terminus. Ticket counter will be set up in the place where currently computer train reservation room is functioning. Other public amenities will also be ready by March end.
 
