With the   firm on banishing liquor from highways, many Mumbai kars might find that their favourite watering hole has had to down shutters on Saturday . Any bar, permit room, restaurant or liquor shop on the megacity's three internal   -the Eastern Express Highway, the Western Express Highway and the   -or within 500m of the arteries cannot serve or sell alcohol from April 1.

 In all, 290 establishments will be affected in the city . Across the state, affected in the city. Across the state, 9,925 shops and bars near state and national highways will have to close down or go permanently dry .
 
 The move, said excise department sources, will eventually hit almost half of the state's excise revenue. The amount could be as high as Rs 5,000-6,000 crore every year.
 
 After Friday's Supreme Court order, the   government issued a circular stating that licences for liquor shops, bars and permit rooms within 500m from highways will not be renewed from April1. Yearly permits of a majority of the 9,925 affected outlets expire in March and are usually renewed from April 1. The government directed excise officials to strictly follow the Supreme Court order.
 
 Going by advocate general  's opinion that the SC order pertained only to liquor vends, the state had initially proposed to remove 850 shops from near highways and let 9,075 bars go on functioning.
 
 The two express highways that reach almost 25 km into Mumbai have some of the busiest stretches of bars, permit rooms and restaurants, many housed in starred hotels, in Andheri, Goregaon, Bandra, Borivli, Thane, Dahisar, Mira Road, Kandivli, Chembur, Kurla, and so on. If the   is taken into account, the number of affected establishments co mes to about 2,000, of which nearly 1,200 are bars and 800 shops.
 
 Besides Mumbai, cities like Pu ne, Nagpur, Satara, Solapur, and Kolhapur will be hit badly as almost 90% liquor joints are located along highways passing through them.
 
 Adarsh Shetty, president of Ahar, an association of over 8,000 bars and restaurants in Mumbai, called it the saddest day for the hospitality industry . “None of the bars will be able to shift as relocation is a very tough job. Who eats food these days without liquor? Some of the shops may shift but ultimately the businesses will get affected badly, and so will government revenue,“ he said.
 
 Sources in the state   department said a possible denotification of all highway stretches passing through cities and towns is under consideration. Taking out the “highway“ tag from the roads and asking the local authorities to maintain them could save many of the bars, vends and permit rooms. But the move has yet to gain momentum.
 
 After the SC's December 16 order, the state government had been cagey about giving out one-day party or club permits for Christmas or New Year parties in Mumbai on hotel lawns, banquet halls, terraces and other halls near highways this winter. It had relented at the eleventh hour, but now, these permits cannot be given anymore. About 500 such permits used to be issued in the city every year.
 
