It’s   today. And along with all the patriotic fervour, why not dish out some flavour on your plate too, as you watch the grand parade? Bring in the   flag, orange-white-green balloons and get started. There are a whole lot of delectable dishes that you can tuck into! Here’s what you can enjoy...

 
 
 You can never beat tradition and the city’s mithai shops have swung into the fray, showcasing mithais in a tricolour theme. At most sweetmeat shops across Mumbai, special   barfis are being made for Republic Day. Says owner Rishabh Jhha of a sweetshop at Malad, “We have prepared a malai barfi using rich condensed milk and khoya. Once it was set we added some saffron and a dot of green on the top. We made about 15 kilos of this and already it is almost sold out.”
  White laddoos with bands of green and orange are also selling like hotcakes. “People love the colour theme and taste. We made these last year too,” reveals Jaival Shah of a sweetmeat shop at Goregaon. Mawa barfi in three colours and ice halwa are also popular buys. And for those who love Bengali sweets, a sweet shop at Bandra has sandes, in three colours. “It’s essentially made of paneer and has flavouring of vanilla (white) kesar (yellow) and pista (green),” says the shop manager. City-based dessert maker Shradha Agarwalla, has creayed a few themed cupcakes, too. “I tried a basic chocolate one with tri-colour sprinkles. You can also make a sponge cake, frosted with white icing. Slice in half and place a cookie inside to represent the Ashoka Chakra,” she says.
 
 
  
  
 This time how about moving away from tradition and trying special tri-colour macarons to celebrate Republic Day. “This is a real treat for the palate. Macarons very easily lend themselves to getting creative with the flavours and it’s fun to do an orange, which isn’t on our usual menu. It’s light and satisfying and the dessert thus makes a scrumptious twist to the traditional confections,” says Rachel Goenka. 
 
 
  
  “Take a vanilla cake, add green colour, a layer of butter cream icing, more vanilla cake, white Ganache and vanilla cake again with orange colour,” says chef Rakhee Vaswani. Here is her recipe. 
 
 
 Flour — 100g
 Sugar — 100g
 Butter — 100g
 Baking powder — ¼ tsp
 Eggs — 2
 Vanilla essence — 1 tsp
 
 Mix the flour and baking powder. Cream the butter, vanilla essence and sugar. Add egg one at a time. Add the flour mixture. Divide the batter in three bowls. In one, mix green colour, in the other bowl mix orange colour. Pour the batter in a greased loaf tin. Bake at 160 degrees for 25 minutes. When cooled, crumble the cake and keep aside.
 
 Butter – 50g
 Icing sugar — 100g
 
 Cream the butter and add the icing sugar till smooth. Pour it in a piping bag.
 
 Cream amulet — 50g
 White chocolate — 100g
 
 Heat the cream. Add the chocolate and whisk till it’s creamy. Pour it in a piping bag.
 
 
 
 By executive chef Sudhir Pai
  
  
 
 
 Rice — ½ cup
 Split black gram skinless (dhuli urad dal) — 2 ½ tbsp
 Sour yoghurt — ¾ cup
 Gram flour (besan) sieved — 1 cup
 Haldi — ¼ tsp
 Oil — 2 tbsp
 Lemon juice — 2 tbsp
 Soda bicarbonate — ¼ tsp
 Salt — to taste
 Green chillies — 4 to 6
 Sugar —1tsp
 Mustard seeds —1 tsp
 Coriander leaves, chopped — 2 tbsp
 Grated coconut – ½ cup
 
 For the white dhokla, grind rice and urad dal into a powder. Add two tablespoons yogurt and three fourth cup of warm water. Mix thoroughly to make a batter of pouring consistency, making sure no lumps are formed. Set this aside to ferment for eight to ten hours.
 For the khaman dhokla take gram flour and haldi in a bowl. Add remaining yogurt and approximately three fourth cup of warm water and mix well to avoid lumps. Set it aside to ferment for three hours.
 Heat water in a pan. Place a ring in it. Take the fermented white dhokla batter and add a mixture of half tablespoon oil, half tablespoon lemon juice and one fourth teaspoon soda bicarbonate and mix. Add salt too.
 Heat water in a steamer. Grease a thali and pour the white dhokla batter till half full. Place it on the ring in the pan. Keep it in the steamer, cover and steam for five minutes.
 Grind together coriander leaves, mint leaves, green chillies, one tablespoon lemon juice, salt, sugar to a smooth paste. Mix the remaining lemon juice, half tablespoon oil and haldi. Add remaining soda bicarbonate and stir to mix. Add it to the khaman batter and mix. Remove the white dhokla from the steamer and spread chutney on it.
 Now, pour the khaman batter over the chutney layer and steam again for 10 minutes. For tempering, heat remaining oil in a pan and add mustard seeds. Pour this over the tri-coloured dhokla. Cut into squares and serve. 
 
 
 
  
  
 Malai kofta is a classic North Indian dish from Mughlai cooking. “These creamy paneer koftas are served in palak gravy, a makhani gravy and cashew nut gravy so as to give the dish a tiranga appearance,” says executive chef Ashvini Kumar who presents a recipe.
 
 
 Paneer — 200g
 Salt — ½ tsp
 Garam masala — ¼ tsp
 Raisins — 10-15
 Maida — 1 tbsp
 Oil — for frying
 Three gravies (ready-to-use)
 Palak, makhani and cashew nut gravy — 75 ml each.
 
 Grate the paneer, salt and garam masala. Mix and knead into dough. Divide this into six parts. Take a single ball and make it into a flat roti on your palm. Place 2 -3 raisins in the 
 centre and then roll it back into a ball koftas. Sprinkle one tablespoon of maida on a plate and roll the koftas in it. Coat them with corn flour and keep aside. Repeat the same process for all the remaining balls. Heat oil in a kadhai and fry the koftas lightly. When they turn light golden brown, take them out.
 
 Heat all the three ready-to-use gravies. Place two koftas in a serving dish. Top it with makhani gravy. Now, add two koftas and top that with cashew nut gravy and lastly, add two koftas and top it with the palak gravy. Serve hot with green salad, tandoori bread and garam masala powder as garnish.
 
 
 
  
  
 Chef Amruta Rao shares a recipe
 
 Watermelon — 150g
 Squid — 100 gm
 Fresh arugula lettuce — 50g
 w Black olives
 
 Balsamic vinegar — 10g
 Olive oil — 30g
 Honey — 3 ml
 Salt — to taste
 Crushed pepper — to taste
 
 Craft it your way.
 
 
