MUMBAI: Campuses across India have seen a spurt of   travelling down to conduct   courses. While some institutions are offering credits to students picking up these programmes, others are building deeper links to conduct joint research and develop content collaboratively.

 American   members have been the most popular in the year-old Global Initiative of Academic Networks initiative that invites   faculty members to conduct courses on Indian campuses. Of 650-odd completed courses, the lion’s share was held by the Indian Institute of Technology-Madras.
 
 Engineering institutes took the lead with the family of Indian Institutes of Technology hosting the largest pool of foreign professors.   had 95 courses, ranging from fire dynamics to data analytics. 
 
 The National Institutes of Technology came next, followed by autonomous engineering institutes. Universities like Jamia Millia Islamia invited faculty members to teach programmes like studies in human security, civilizations and world orders. 
 
 After the US (91), comes UK (67) and faculty members from Australia (43) and Germany (40) who have flown down to hold lectures. Canada, France, Singapore, Japan and Spain too have sent professors to be a part of the programme. 
 
 Most courses are either week-long or for a fortnight. In fact, experts claimed India as a host is among those that paid the highest to a visiting foreign faculty members $300-350 for a lecture.
 
 But at most institutes, 20-30 students take these courses, and while there is no data on how many candidates attended all GIAN courses conducted to date, some faculty members said they hoped student numbers would rise.
 
 “Compared to other countries, India is paying visiting professors very well,” said Sundararajan Natrajan, co-ordinator of GIAN courses at IIT-M. “The fact that we pay for guest faculty members’ travel, the stay and a very honourable per lecture honorarium, has allowed us to attract very senior lecturers,” said a faculty member of Mumbai University, which has hosted six GIAN lectures. 
 
 The process of the programme, open for government institutions, works thus: A department proposes courses and the respective board filters them and forward the list to the institute’s board. The final list is sent to IIT-Kharagpur, which approves the programme based on need assessment, faculty profile and content framework.
 
 “The ideas, foreign collaboration and co-operation we are building is the start of a conversation that is allowing institutes to build deep relationships with some of the finest faculty members. Also, students are getting fresh global perspectives in many areas,” added Sundararajan. Many institutes are even recording lectures and building a repository of courses. 
 
