Lucknow: For those looking for alternative therapies in cancer treatment, two upcoming therapies, one being expensive- immuno-therapy and the other being cheaper metronomic chemotherapy are available for patients on a lookout in Lucknow. Discussed at the   conference organized by medical oncologists from Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences and Command Hospital, that concluded on Sunday, facts around the therapies were revealed along with an awareness drive against tobacco, held in city colleges.

 An oncology conference was organized by experts from Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences and Command Hospital, and it concluded on Sunday. During the conference, facts related to the therapies were revealed along with an awareness drive against tobacco, held in city colleges
 
 Dr Gaurav Gupta, organising secretary and associate professor at RMLIMS medical oncology department, said, “In Immunotherapy, substances made of body material or in the laboratory are used to boost the body’s immune system to fight cancer cells. “Through the therapy, reactivation is done to fight cancer cells.”
 
 He added that trials in western countries suggest that the therapy success rate is anywhere between 20% and 25% while its after-effects are long term, with some patients not being able to recover even till two years of treatment. 
 
 Dr Manish Kumar, organising chairperson of the conference and associate professor at the department of medicine and oncology at Command Hospital, has already performed the therapy. 
 
 At RMLIMS, experts are available to use immunotherapy drugs on concerned patients. “The therapy is extremely expensive at the moment and suitable for only specific cases,” added Dr Gupta. 
 
 Metronomic chemotherapy, on the other hand, being a low-dose continuous chemotherapy, is comparatively a cheaper one. “It is still experimental and we perform it only after patient’s approval. But it is a simple therapy that uses non-cancer and some chemo drugs in select cases. It keeps the cancer cells in control, and in some cases, can give long term benefits too,” added Dr Gupta.
 
 
