GURUGRAM: How you run depends on who you are. Some prefer the solitary solace of the long-distance runner, others the group camaraderie. But whether you’re an introvert or extrovert, running at its purest is a pastime for anyone and everyone. And increasingly, it’s being embraced by anyone and everyone.

 On Sunday, the fourth edition of the Intelenet Trail-a-thon saw around 1,100 runners and fitness enthusiasts gather just outside Bandhwari, for a trek past Mangar, towards  , and back. Juniors as well as grown-ups competed in 56km, 28km, 14km and 7km runs, as well as a 12-hour  , which got under way at a chilly 5am, when only the most eager runners are up and about.
 
 There was shallow fog in the morning, but otherwise the conditions could not have been more perfect for a winter run. Rita Dagar, taking part for the third time, had entered for the 14km. “I wait for this time of year!” she told TOI. “The weather’s great today, and it was a lot of fun!” Sentiments that encapsulated the experience of all on the day.
 
 Not surprisingly, Rita loves to run, and does so often, having taken part in her share of half marathons. For the record, she completed the Trail-a-thon in 1 hour and 32 minutes.
 
 Meanwhile,   and   both ran the 7km. For Sujit, it was his first outing after the Mumbai Marathon. In his own words, Gaurav has, of late, gone “off the boil” when it comes to logging kilometres in his legs, following his move from Gurgaon to Hyderabad three months back. So he’s been missing the comforts of road running, which to him is more than just about physical well-being. “Running helps keep me fit mentally,” he admitted. 
 
 Then there were children, as content as their mums and dads running up and down the trail. “What surprised me was they were camera shy, which you don’t usually see with kids these days!” shared Umesh Gupta, one of the event’s organisers. Maybe these boys and girls were just too focused on the task at hand!
 
 This year, MCG joined as event partner. Hopefully, the   – to ‘run, reclaim and revive’ the   – will be borne in mind through the year, rather on just this one day. For, this ancient range of hills, with its wonderful biodiversity, is crying out for care and sensitivity.
 
 
