BHADOHI: Simply put, the Yadavs of Ashogapur village in   took their dairy trade to Mumbai in the 1980s and made a better life for themselves in the big city , “away from the Brahmins“.

 Now well-off, they've have bought land in their village, something they couldn't have dreamed of had they not left. What they lost, they say , is their right to vote in UP . This poll season, many of the Mumbai Yadavs are back in their village “for a first-hand feel of the elections“. UP “I moved to Mumbai in 1992. Before that, I was a carpet weaver like others. But there were no returns. So I joined other villagers in Mumbai,“ says Sheshmani Yadav. Yadavs are in the majority in the 10 gram sabhas, including Ashogapur, in Bhadohi's Amwanyay panchayat. While Bhulaipur has an 87%   population, Ashogapur has over 50%.
 
 “My father Munni Lal migrated to Maharashtra in the 1980s and set up a dairy there. My uncle followed and then many others joined the dairy business across Maharashtra,“ says Ashogapur pradhan Jilajit Yadav. Some set up dairies in Mumbai, others run shops selling milk and dairy products. Many, like Mangta Prasad, fell off the electoral roll over the years. He does not regret that.
 
 “It's okay . In Ashogapur, Brahmins used to hold big chunks of land. But now, much of the land's been bought by us Yadavs. Had we stuck to carpet weaving, we'd have been starving like other ar tisans here,“ he says. Yadavs are traditionally not carpet weavers but alongside Muslim artisans in these villages, they learnt the craft. Of the 500 Yadav villagers, at least 150 work in dairies in Mumbai -a member per family .
 
 “Yadavs had to pay a Brah min 1 kg desi ghee to simply tether a cow in his field. But now the game's changed,“ smiles the pradhan. But they rue that they can't avail `sarkari' favours. “Our village has no solar light but Dhanapur, a Brahmin village, has eight,“ says Phaguram Yadav, referring to a central scheme.
 
 They have barely benefitted from the Samajwadi Pension Yojna either.
 
 “That's because the former pradhan was not a Yadav,“ says Mangta Prasad. The 12-beegha land alloted for girls' college has been encroached and is under culticvation. Girls cycle up to 16kms to go to school. The Mum bai Yadavs don't want to come back as Little has changed from how it was two decades ago when the first Yadav villager migrated.
 
