NAGPUR: This happened about two months ago, when Kavita Shelke (name changed) used to be harassed everyday by a boy in her neighbourhood in Siraspeth, while going to school. She didn’t tell about this to her parents out of fear of being stopped from going to school. Instead, one fine day, she left for school with a lathi and hit the boy on the knees and head when he tried to play smart. She then shared the incident with her   Mangesh Karole. Waghmare, studying in Std 9, has been learning to use Shivaji Maharaj’s weapons as a self-defence measure and as means to improve confidence.

 Like Shelke, over 50 girls are being trained in self-defence by Shivaadnya Mardani Talim Pratishthan at Reshimbagh ground every evening for the past two years. These classes are held for the girls free of cost. “We have about 12 swords, 4 ‘danda pattas’, four spears, four arrows and about 200 kathis. My team can fight a mini-war,” laughs Karole.
 
 “The idea behind training girls to use Shivaji’s weapons is to empower them and build their confidence in a way that they can protect themselves in any circumstance. Amol Waghmare helped get the ground available,” says Datta Shirke, founder of the Pratishthan. Girls as young as five have been coming to the class and handling weapons weighing 5kgs or more. “The reaction and pride on their face when they first hold a  . They feel like they can win the world,” says Karole.
 
 “We also want to take Shivaji Maharaj’s legacy forward. We hope the youth of today will teach the next generation,” says member Sonal Deshmukh. Age is no bar at this class. Moreover, all the weapons are blunt, to prevent anyone from getting hurt. About 30 boys also come to learn, says trainer Chetan Bhosale.
 
 Most girls in the group are here so that they can venture out without fear. “Why wait for anyone to save us? Who knows what circumstances we might be presented with? I wanted to feel independent,” says 27-year-old Neha Kunte, who has been a regular since a month. Former lecturer Vaishali Charde, 31, says the training has increased her confidence to take on any attacker.
 
 Aanchal Tiwari, studying in Std 11, is already a karate champion. “I want to join the Indian army when it is time, and knowing to use the weapons makes me proud of myself,” she says. Priyanka Puri, who has pursued Karate, volleyball and swimming, admits her interest in weaponry grew after she watched Bollywood movie Bajirao Mastani. “My father has learnt to use the weapons, and my grandma was a homeguard. This was also why I wanted to try my hand here,” she says.
 
 When a newcomer joins, he or she is first trained to perform ‘pavitra’ or the footsteps required in the discipline for a month. They then learn to use kathi and slowly graduate to using other weapons. The funds to run the class come from the various events where the group is invited to showcase sword wielding skills and weaponry. “We recently performed during Shivaji jayanti, and are invited round the year during festivals such as Ganesha Chaturthi, Navratri, etc,” said a member of pratishthan Pankaj Waghmare.
 
