Mohali: With the Hero TOI Green Drive, a Times of India and Hero Motors Initiative, Mohali will have a thicker green cover. Trees will be planted in Peer Muchhalla, Zirakpur and Dappar Army station, Lalru on September 23. The plan is to plant 20,000 saplings of citrus and medicinal plants. The   is an award-winning CSR campaign which was organised in Delhi-NCR in 2015 and 2016 with a topline of Rs 1.8 crore and Rs 1 crore respectively.

 The campaign aims at enhancing the green cover in areas which have suffered the brunt of rapid urbanisation, like the peripheral areas of Chandigarh and Mohali. Expanding cities have come at the cost of green spaces, turning them into concrete jungles. The only way to reverse the damage is by supplementing the thinning green cover. 
 
 TOI has been running campaigns to boost the green cover for past several months. Efforts are being made to sensitise Tricity residents about trees, their names, significance and benefits. Environmentalists feel such initiatives are the need of the hour, given rising pollution levels. Santosh Kumar, director, environment, UT said, “The only way to save the environment is to plant more trees. The survival rate of citrus and fruit-bearing trees is more and saplings must be four to five feet in height.”
 
 Suman Mor, an environmentalist said the environmental consequences of reduction in green cover ranges from increase in air pollution, ground water depletion, frequent flooding in the monsoon and rise in temperature. “Planting 20,000 saplings is an admirable initiative by TOI and Hero. We need to concentrate on planting more trees, which lead to improved green cover. The most important thing is to take care of the sapling and make sure it grows into a healthy tree.” 
 
 Photo quotes
 
 ‘Replace felled tree with 10 others’
 
 The private developers have cut down trees in large number for housing projects. These trees have not been replaced. Sometimes they have planted saplings of smaller heights which have very less survival rate. Each tree cut must be replaced with atleast 10 trees
 
 N K Jhingan | Secretary, environment society of India
 
 The state governments of Punjab and Haryana should learn from Chandigarh and must prepare green action plan like Chandigarh did. They should work dedicatedly to increase the green cover. One tree cut must be replaced by planting 10 tree saplings. Also more green belts must be developed
 
 Santosh Kumar | Director environment, UT
 
 Choosing right place and species of tree is highly crucial, and requires inputs from experts. It is not about the number we gain or lose but number we manage to sustain to maintain the oxygen content of the air. We should also see to the fact that the planting of such tree saplings do not prove to be hazardous for public for their longevity
 
 Suman Mor | Environmentalist
 
 
