Nagpur: An initiative undertaken by prison department across the state would soon enable jail officials to know the background of any inmate instantly. This would help them provide proper couselling by skilled counsellors from Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS) for inmates who have a violent tendency or those prone to provocation.  The department, which uses a software ‘Prison Management Systems’ or ‘Prisms’, is working to link it up with police department’s ‘Crime and Criminal Tracking Network and Systems’ (CCTNS) and official portal of the state judiciary ‘e-court’. The linking of Prisms with CCTNS and e-court would make data of every offender available to them. Using biometric enabled Prisms, any prison official would be able to peruse background of any offender simply though a thumb impression. DIG, Prison, Eastern region, Yogesh Desai said knowing the background of each inmate would help the department earmark them for counselling so as to improve their behaviour. “We will place inmates who have a history of committing a crime under sudden provocation, whether substantial or trivial, under counselling. This would act as a preventive measure to stop crimes such as murder of Ayush Pugaliya by Suraj Kotnake in Nagpur Central Jail on Monday. Kotnake’s temperamental side was not known earlier,” he said.  Desai also said linking of Prisms with CCTNS and e-court would help personnel from any region know about the background of an offender from any part of the state or even outside. “At present, a personnel from Mumbai posted in Nagpur would not know the local criminals as well as those who have spent considerable time here,” he said. The DIG said at present inmates were classified on the basis of age and other criteria but not on their mental make-up. “We have opened an ‘adolescent barracks’ for the prisoners between 18 and 21 years of age. Many times we try to classify the inmates on the basis of their gang affiliations to avoid clashes too,” said Desai.  He said State government and prison department had already entered into a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with TISS that shall now provide counsellors for the prison inmates across Maharashtra. “There are already two clinical psychologists at Nagpur Central Jail engaged in counselling the prisoners. We shall have more trained cousellors from TISS focusing on individuals deemed dangerous,” he said. Desai stated TISS counsellors would start functioning in Nagpur central jails and other prisons in the region soon.