INDORE:   on Friday claimed that area of the city coming under the limits of   (IMC) were declared   (ODF) by the centre.

 The mayor, in a tweet, expressed gratitude towards the people of Indore in assisting the civic body in achieving the feat.
 
 “I have recently received information from the prime minister’s office that   has been declared ODF,” Gaud told TOI.
 
 The mayor said the IMC has been on an overdrive for the last several months constructing 12549 individual toilets, more than 200 urinals, near about 190 community and public toilets, 400 modular and 16 mobile toilets.
 
 “We were working on it from last 1 year and 6 effective NGOs and their teams did the triggering activity for ODF. There were near 128 major ODF spots in city which were tackled mainly along with other locations,” she said.
 
 Apart from constructing toilets in the city, the civic body ran many programs to create awareness related to cleanliness and  . All the senior officials of the city were conducting inspection of all the wards of the city to check open defecation. 
 
 They came up ‘Roko- toko’ initiative under which they stopped the people from going put in the open. They also came up with another initiative called ‘Dabba Gang’. Under this initiative, residents were urged to make groups to stop open defecation by making noise with the dabbas they carried.
 
 Several NGO’s were also roped in awareness campaign. The volunteers also went in many parts of the city and helped in creating awareness through traditional media like Nukkad Natak.
 
 With the announcement of city area being declared ODF, Indore is poised to receive 150 extra points for the ranking of cleanest city under Swachh Bharat Abhiyan. The list is prepared on basis of marks scored for availability of infrastructure and service levels related to sanitation such as individual household toilets, public and community toilets and collection, transportation and processing of municipal solid waste.
 
 In January last year, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan declared 610 villages under 312 village panchayats in Indore district as open defecation-free.
 
