MUMBAI: Seven months after a 27-year-old man allegedly slit the throat of a woman commuter waiting at  , the   has cited the issue of “women’s safety” to reject the accused’s bail application. Justice Sadhana Jadhav said that Firoz Shaikh, who is facing attempt to murder charges, does not deserve to be released on bail. 

 “In the facts and circumstances of the case, especially where the safety of women is concerned, Shaikh does not deserve to be enlarged on bail,” said Justice Jadhav. Additional public prosecutor Veera Shinde, while opposing the bail plea, pointed out that Shaikh had been released from prison in an illegal arms case just a day before he attacked the woman with a knife. “This reflects upon the culpability of (the accused). Criminal mentality is writ large,” added the judge.
 
 The incident dates back to July 17, 2016, when the victim, Pooja (23), was on her way to her home in Sion from Virar. She crossed over from the Western line to the Central line at Dadar and was waiting on platform 1. Around 8.30pm, Shaikh, who was travelling in the second-class compartment, waved the knife at her when the train was moving and slit her throat. Other passengers in the train and on the platform caught hold of Shaikh and handed him over to the police. The victim was rushed to the hospital. The police booked Shaikh on charges of attempt to murder under the Indian Penal Code. If convicted, Shaikh faces a jail term of up to 10 years or life imprisonment. 
 
 The prosecution informed the court that the police had recovered CCTV footage that pointed to Shaikh’s involvement in the crime. Prosecutor Shinde, in a bid to show his criminal antecedents, told the court that Shaikh had been arrested in an illegal arms case in 2010 and was lodged in Arthur Road jail. On July 16, he was discharged from the arms case and released from prison. Shaikh was reportedly drunk when he committed the crime. The high court clarified that its observations were prima facie and should not be considered at the time of trial.
 
