CHANDIGARH: : The Punjab assembly passed a much awaited bill on Wednesday that sets a procedure and criteria for   as law officers in the state’s   (AG) office.

 With the assembly giving its nod to   (Engagement) Bill, 2017, with a voice-vote, the legislation — the first in Punjab that governs employment of law officers by the state government — will now go to the governor for the  .
 
 If cleared, the law will make it compulsory for the government to issue advertisements for engaging law officers. The new law has been passed by the state in line with directions passed by Supreme Court in March 2016 to Punjab and Haryana for bringing transparency in such appointments, which includes consultation with the chief justice.
 
 In August 2016, Haryana had passed the Haryana Law Officers (Engagement) Act. As per the bill, law officers to be engaged in the office of AG include: senior additional advocate general, additional advocate general, senior deputy advocate general, deputy advocate general, assistant advocate general and advocates on record (for supreme court). They would represent the Punjab government before the Punjab and Haryana high court, Supreme Court and various other courts or tribunals.
 
 The law officers would be engaged by a scrutiny committee and a selection committee. The selection committee comprises AG as chairman, legal remembrancer as member secretary and three members to be appointed by the government. The new bill also empowers the AG to engage up to seven advocates with the approval of the state government. The bill also reserves 5% seats in the AG office for those working as district attorney or above rank in the state’s prosecution department. The appointments would be purely contractual and lawyers shall not have any claim of engagement.
 
 Regarding removal of law officers, the bill clarifies that the government, in the consultation of AG, may disengage or dispense with any law officer from his office with immediate effect. Though the total number of law officers has not been determined in the bill, it has clarified that the number can be fixed by the government in consultation with AG and on the assessment of workload.
 
 
