LUCKNOW: The fresh phase of police investigations will revolve around three key stakeholders of oil businesses apart from dealers—government employees posted in weights and measures department, oil companies and service engineers of companies which manufacture   dispensing machines. The oil company issues licences and sets out the procedure for the other three stakeholders.

 On April 27, special task force cracked down on diesel and   in Lucknow. The special investigation team constituted to look into the fraud has decided to summon oil company employees, service engineers and government employees to record their statements. Legal action might be initiated against them in the days to come.
 
 Incidentally, officials from weights and measures department are part of the joint squad carrying out raids at fuel stations. While service engineers are supposed to keep the dispensing machines free of technical glitches and anomalies, weights and measures department act as the first gateway or custodian the job of which is to ensure customers are not short-changed.
 
 Heading the SIT, ASP Lucknow crime branch Sanjay Kumar said, “If the dealer resorts to fraudulent means, the onus to prevent it lies with oil companies, the licensing authority, while weights and measures department comes second. Only service engineers know the technique to breach into the machine and hence some of them are under our scanner.”
 
 Rajinder, the man who is in STF custody for selling electronic chips and remote control to petrol dealers, learned to hack into the machine from a service engineer. Rajinder worked as a fuel attendant at Lalta Prasad Vaishya   in Chowk for 17 years.
 
 
 
 Soon after petrol pump dealers proceeded on a flash strike on the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday, special task force scaled down its crackdown on fuel pumps with no fresh raids reported in the past 48 hours. IG STF Ram Kumar said STF cannot go after 6,600 fuel stations in UP and hence it was decided to rope in the district administration for the drive in the meeting held on Tuesday. “We have a limited workforce of not more than 200 people in Lucknow and have to look after organised criminal gangs too. We cannot go after all the fuel stations. We have shared the nitty-gritty of raids with administrative officers over video conferencing and have sent out the procedure through email to them to continue the drive,” said Kumar.
 
