VARANASI: Applauding Yogi government for naming toilets, the foundation of which he laid at Shahanshahpur on Saturday, as "Izzat ghar", Prime Minister   said that if a house will have  , it would upkeep the dignity of the house.

 After inaugurating the cattle fair and laying foundation stone of a toilet at the village about 30 kilometres from Varanasi, amidst protest by shiksha Mitras and a few women demanding separate Purvanchal, the PM said for him country was above the party.
 
 "Political parties otherwise work only for vote bank, but cattle fair organised by us is meant for betterment of cow breeds and animals are no vote bank,"   said. He also added saying, work on animal breeds have never been done on this scale in the past 70 years as have been done now.
 
 "When I was laying foundation stone of toilets at village, I saw izzat ghar written on them. I was happy to see the name. I congratulate state government for coining this name," Modi Said.
 
 Listing out his other priorities, PM said his government has planned to provide houses for all poor be it from rural or urban area by 2022. It's an uphill task but then if difficult task is not done by Modi then who else will do.
 
 Interestingly, even as Modi was addressing the gathering, three women reached the media and VVIP gallery and raised the placards and began shouting Purvanchal banao....
 
 Even as security forces pushed the women away, shiksha mitras who it looked had sneaked in PM's rally in huge number proving it to be complete intelligence failure, began raising slogans and showing demand letters.
 
 Additional force was called to take shiksha mitras away.
 Interestingly, it was third incident in the last 24 hours during PM's programme raising serious question on local intelligence inability to gauge the mood.
 
 On PM's first day visit on Friday, he was taken from an alternate route after BHU girls staged a sit in demanding action against those involved in harassing them. The dharna by girls was still continuing.
 
 The PM while concluding his speech on Friday, patted Yogi governments back for implementing so many decisions in just six month of coming to power.
 
 
