Deputy Chairman of   
  says repeated washout of   is a threat to democracy. In an interview to 
 , he says legislators are getting around the anti-defection law and a revisit of the statute is in order. Excerpts:

 
 
 If this session is also a washout, then it is very dangerous for democratic polity. I hope the leaders of opposition and government will be mature enough to ensure smooth running of the House. There should be negotiations between the government and the opposition, there will be some issues where they will agree to disagree. Opposition, instead of disrupting the House, should speak what they want and, if necessary, they can oppose the government bill or motion. Disruption does not serve any purpose, it is undemocratic and the government should also come forward to appreciate and understand the views of the opposition.
 
 
 
 I am of the view that what happens in Lok Sabha should not be a reason for members of Rajya Sabha to act in a particular way. Both are independent Houses. Rajya Sabha need not consider what is the strength of a particular party or government in Lok Sabha. Rajya Sabha should consider issues on merits. But unfortunately, it seems that may be members are influenced by what is happening in Lok Sabha. It should not be, but in practice perhaps, it is happening.
 
 
 
 MPs of a state where election is being held would like to be more vocal so that their voters know they have taken up their issues in Parliament. That is natural, there is nothing wrong with that… but then, if such issues are raised in the form of a submission or speech or a question, the publicity they get through media is much less. Some MPs feel it is better to do something a little abnormal so that media catches it and they will get political advantage. So media is also partly responsible for that. In my view, if media can stop mentioning names while publishing disruptions, then at least some people will stop it.
 
 
 
 
 Resigning from party membership is only a technical matter. Whether you resign from a party or not, when you function as Speaker, you should act impartially, objectively. Take the case of MPs after the anti-defection law. Technically, they are in a party but they are working for another party which they have already decided to join. However, on an issue of whip, they vote for the party they are in (to avoid disqualification). So, resignation is not the issue. The issue is when you are Speaker or deputy chairman, you have to be impartial.
 
 
 
 
 Anti-defection law has been there for more than a decade. With the experience of its working, certainly there is need for a relook because in some cases, the law has become ineffective like MPs who have mentally defected to another party but technically continue to be in their own outfit (to escape disqualification). I have no remedy for this, but there is no harm in taking a relook.
 
 
