JALANDHAR: As newly appointed   has rolled out his agenda of   in Punjab through first interaction with school principals   on Saturday. He appeared to be bringing teachers at ease by sorting out their issues.

 In a major reprieve for the teachers, he told the schools heads and district education officers that they can do away with hard copies of reports from the teachers and urged them to use only email for the purpose. He also said that it would be responsibility of the education department officials to give increments and promotions to teachers in time while doing away with the earlier practice of teachers applying for the same.
 
 "They should get what they deserve in time and there should be no delays. If anybody would be found delaying the dues or other benefits of the teachers then the responsible official would face action," he said. "There should be no delay in distribution of salaries and the issues of the teachers should be resolved within fixed time frames," he added. 
  
 Interestingly, it is for the first time that a top officer or education department has used the Edusat network for reaching out to the school heads directly and he even shared his mobile number asking the principals to send him a message if they thought that his intervention was required. The new education secretary even took direct calls from the principals during the interaction and addressed their queries and took note of their suggestions. 
 
 Krishan Kumar was earlier credited for bringing government school education system back on tracks in Punjab during his stint as Director General School Education. While he pushed the reforms for around three years while enjoying backing of then education minister  , he was transferred in 2011 after   became education minister. He was known for his no-nonsense approach while making himself accessible to one and all.
 
 On Saturday, he also issued instructions that physical training would be a must in schools and no relaxation would be given in that. He also asked the school principals and teachers to be punctual. In another major step for the benefit of teachers he told that the teachers would also undergo medical examination and this was being facilitated while working in tandem with health department. He issued strict instructions for clerks and said that wherever clerks were available in the schools no clerical work would be given to teachers and they would have to keep the all records updated.
 
