BENGALURU: Higher   minister Basavaraj Rayaraddi on Friday said all 17 state   are under the cloud of corruption and have been charged with misappropriation of funds.

 Replying to M Narayanswamy (Congress) and Mahantesh Kavatgimath (BJP) in the legislative council, Rayaraddi said the government has received reports from at least six universities which have been under the scanner. “An example of such misappropriation can be seen at Kuvempu University, wherein an infrastructure project worth Rs 4.6 crore has been excessively and wrongfully billed at Rs 11 crore, and funds have been released,” he said.
 
 In the last six to seven years, such wrongdoings have surfaced across all these universities, the minister said. He said the department has now formed three-member committees at the district levels to look into the accounts of the universities and identify cases of misappropriation. The committees comprise the superintendent engineer (PWD), additional deputy commissioner and the finance officer of the local zilla panchayat. 
 
 Rayaraddi said the reports are expected to come by March. “Once we receive them, we’ll take all possible measures to plug the loopholes. The same will be included in the comprehensive universities regulation act to be brought in near future,” he said. Rayaraddi said the bill is already in its draft stage, and has now been sent to the law department for its opinion.
 
 Replying to M B Bhanu Prakash (BJP), the minister listed the names of six retired vice chancellors who have allegedly indulged in acts of misuse of office and corrupt practices. From recruitment scams to misappropriations in infrastructure projects, the V-Cs and registrars of these varsities have been found guilty by judicial commissions and Lokayuktas. While a few of the offenders have obtained a stay from the high court, other reports against them are pending before the state government.
 
 
 
 
 Rayaraddi said the government has already got 165 acres of forest land denotified by the ministry of environment and forests (MoEF). “We have already proposed to give alternative land to the MoEF in Khanapur taluk, instead of the denotified land. The issue should be resolved by this month end,” he added. The state has allocated Rs 150 crore for the purpose.
 
 
 
 
 The government will rename theWomen’s University at Vijayapura after the 12th century social reformer and poet Akka Mahadevi. Rayaraddi said chief minister Siddaramaiah will officially rename the university on the occasion of International Women’s Day on March 8.
 
 V-Cs under scanner
 
 B R Ananthan (retd) -- Rani Channamma University
 
 H Maheshappa (retd) -- Visvesvaraya Technological University
 
 K S Rangappa (retd) -- Karnataka State Open University
 
 Sherigar (retd) -- Kuvempu University
 
 Manjappa D Hosmani (retd) -- Vijayanagara Sri Krishnadevaraya University
 
 B B Walikar (retd) -- Karnatak University
 
 
