GREATER NOIDA: A 27-year-old woman was arrested on Wednesday for allegedly murdering her husband with the help of her paramour in Surajpur area of  .

 The woman, Mohsina, originally from Dhaulana in Hapur, had been living with her husband Nazakat, a scrap dealer, in   in Greater Noida. The couple has two daughters and two sons. Nazakat had objected to his wife’s   with a man from her hometown. 
 
 The family had shifted from Hapur to Greater Noida nearly six months ago.
 
 According to police, Mohsina was in a relationship with a man named Rahul Kumar. The two frequently saw each other and Nazakat had warned her against it. 
 
 On March 10, Mohsina visited Surajpur police station and told the police that her husband had left for work in the morning but did not return home till late.
 
 Anuj Kumar, SHO, Surajpur police station, said that an FIR was registered. “We put the victim’s mobile phone on surveillance but it was switched off. We formed a team to further investigate the case,” Kumar said.
 
 On Wednesday, police found a semi-decomposed body near railway tracks in Rupwas village in Dadri. 
 
 The police contacted Mohsina and also the family members of Nazakat in Hapur. They confirmed the victim’s identity.
 
 However, Nazakat’s family members alleged that Mohsina had murdered him. “Nazakat’s family members had doubt over Mohsina’s behaviour. They said that she was in an extramarital relationship with a person named Rahul,” the SHO said.
 
 Kumar said that the police picked up Mohsina and questioned her. 
 
 “The woman first feigned ignorance but soon broke down. She admitted to have spiked the food with poison and offered it to her husband,” said the SHO. She and her paramour then allegedly strangulated him and dumped the body near Dadri railway tracks. Rahul fled after committing the crime.
 
 According to the woman, she plotted the murder as her husband objected to her meeting Rahul. The duo had planned to marry once the matter settled down.
 
 The SHO said that a case for murder, destruction of evidence and criminal conspiracy has been registered against the duo under sections 302, 201 and 34 of IPC.
 
 The police have informed their counterparts in Hapur about the absconding accused. 
 
 “We have arrested the woman. We are trying to nab the other accused. The body has been sent for post-mortem and the report is awaited,” said the officer.
 
 
