HYDERABAD: Handlooms have brought state textiles minister KT Rama Rao and actor-politician   together. So much so that they even took a selfie together. 

 Jana Sena leader Kalyan's latest film "Katamarayudu" released on Friday to mixed reactions from the film-going public. On Sunday, KTR tweeted a selfie with Pawan Kalyan saying, "Watched KatamaRayudu. Appreciate the subtle but strong promotion of handlooms." "You have a sure winner," the minister said about the movie Pawan Kalyan and producer Sharrath Marrar in his tweet.
 
 There has been no love lost between Pawan Kalyan and the   (TRS) in the past. Owing to his comments against those seeking to divide the state (before bifurcation), Pawan Kalyan was at the receiving end of the acerbic tongue of TRS president K Chandrasekhar Rao. The chief minister's daughter   too poked fun at Kalyan who had targeted her as well.
 
 However, the bonhomie between the minister and Kalyan did not go down so well among fans of KTR.
 
 With the chief minister's son not just watching Kalyan's movie, but calling it a winner, and taking a selfie with the actor, KTR's followers were livid on Sunday. 
 
 Reacting to the post, one Sudhakar said, "We Telangana people don't like this." He pointed out that Pawan Kalyan had opposed the bifurcation of the state. Srikantha Aitha reminded people of the sharp comments KCR had made against Pawan Kalyan in the past and how the situation had turned with KTR now showing enough interest to take a selfie with Pawan Kalyan.
 
 Murali Reddy described the meeting of KTR and PK as 'great politics'. "You divided us but you'll have met," he commented.
 
 Pawan Kalyan's fans, however, were okay with the situation with many even expressing happiness about the new-found support their hero was getting.
 
 Kalyan, who is also active on Twitter did not react to the selfie that KTR posted on Twitter, but producer Sharrath Marar did. "Thank you very much for your words of appreciation KTR garu. I am so glad that you liked Katamarayudu," he said.
 
 "You both are real leaders. Proud to be a fan of yours," one Abhinav commented, appreciating the selfie.
 
 Actor Kamal Kamaraju, who plays a role in the film "Katamarayudu", also got involved in the discussion and said thanked KTR, PK and Sharath Marar for .
 
 There has been no love lost between Kalyan and the TRS in the past. Owing to his comments against those seeking to divide the state (before bifurcation), Pawan Kalyan was at the receiving end of the acerbic tongue of TRS president K Chandrasekhar Rao.The CM's daughter Kavitha Kalvakuntla too poked fun at Kalyan 
 
