HUBBALLI: The   call given by   protesters and   evoked a   in the town and surrounding villages with business and   remaining shut and public transport vehicles staying away off the roads on Monday.

 Schools, colleges, banks and government offices were either shut or wore a deserted look. However, the bandh did not affect Krishi Sinchana, the annual mega event of farmers, organized by Deshpande Foundation at Ballarwada village in Navalgund taluk.
 
 Farmers from various villages reached Navalgund on their own to participate in the protest rally. At one point during the day, the news of the arrest of farmers on the outskirts spread among the protesters. When they demanded the release of arrested protesters, police officials announced that some people were detained and released later. Farmer leader Lokanath Hebsur urged the protesters to cooperate with police in maintaining law and order.
 
 MLA N H Konaraddi said that the protest will intensify if the Centre continues its silence over the issue even after the assembly elections in Goa. Leaders, who addressed a rally at the tahsildar’s office, alleged that the Centre is much interested in issues like Jallikattu in Tamil Nadu, but least bothered about the Kalasa-Banduri agitation which is going on for the past one-and-half years.
 
 Stating that their agitation has been peaceful, the leaders reiterated their demand for the Prime Minister’s intervention in the issue. They alleged that the state government is deliberately delaying withdrawing cases against the protesters. 
 
 The protesters raised slogans during the procession, criticising the Union and state government for neglecting the Kalasa-Banduri project. Women protesters decorated the places covered in the rally with rangoli, flowers and welcome boards. This was seen as an answer to the police department’s campaign to ensure public security.
 
 The women agitators alleged that the police campaign was aimed at discouraging the bandh. There was exchange of words when police objected to the bursting of crackers by the protesters. Leaders like Hebsur, Subhashchandragouda Patil, Ramesh Halagatti and Venkanna Karadi led the rally.
 
