Cleared

 Chennai: Sidelined factional leader T T V Dhinakaran on Tuesday complained to the election commission about chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam, accusing them of misusing their official position and falsely implicating him in a sedition case. The Salem police on Monday booked 37 persons, including Dhinakaran and supporters under various sections, including IPC section 124A (sedition), for distributing pamphlets allegedly containing defamatory remarks against PM Narendra Modi and chief minister.
 
 “I would like to bring to the notice of your good self that in order (to) prevent me from effectively contesting this election dispute, the petitioners (E Madhusudanan, O Panneerselvam and S Semmalai) and the impleading applicant Edappadi K Palaniswami are mis-utilising their official position,” Dhinakaran said, in an affidavit filed before the commission. 
 
 He said he was highlighting the situation faced by him while contesting the present dispute and the fact that he was not getting fair opportunity. The affidavit has been filed five days after the deadline set by the commission to submit fresh submissions by parties ended. Dhinakaran was, however, allowed to file the affidavits on Tuesday. 
 
 In a separate petition, the leader alleged that a number of affidavits of retraction were filed by OPS and EPS groups last week, where persons had gone back on their earlier position of supporting Sasikala and himself. The OPS camp filed 63 volumes of documents and Palaniswami 62. “I humbly submit that these affidavits contained fabricated and false signatures, signatures obtained under duress and with undue influence,” he said, requesting the commission to permit him to adduce evidence and examine and cross-examine those who filed affidavits of retraction. If their names were disclosed, Dhinakaran said they would be subjected to undue harassment and may not be able to appear before the commission.
 
 Refuting the charges, senior leader of the OPS camp, P H Manoj Pandian said the affidavits were genuine. “TTV does not have the requisite support in order to even prima facie argue and maintain the case. He is not entitled also to use the name and symbol of the party as OPS and EPS enjoy the support of the legislature and party organisation. It is only an attempt to thwart the process,” Pandian said. 
 
 EOM
 
 
