RANCHI: A few people from   and Bihar are taking   to the  . An alumni wing of St Xavier's College, Ranchi along with other people from the region set up a   at an   of United States of America (USA) few months ago. 

 One among these non-resident Indians (NRI) Abhishek Sinha, working as vice-president manager in Bank of America who pursued intermediate (Science) from 1994-96 and Bachelor of Science (Chemistry honours) from 1996-97 in St Xavier's College while sharing details of this American inclination during the college alumni meet on December 31 told TOI, "In mid-September, we had thought of participating in the fair with homemade litti-chokha, samosa and mutton rice. It was a surprise to see Americans loving these items and litti-chokha more because our dishes are spicier than theirs." 
 
 "They were relishing and constantly asking us to offer another plate of litti-chokha. On the first day, all the food we made got sold out in four hours and on the second day, it was sold out in the first two hours. 
 
  USA has strict rules regarding preparing dishes for fair. We had to rush to our houses, prepare hundreds of litti-chokha and return to the fair," he said. 
 
 Accepting the love for Bihar-Jharkhand's traditional dish, Deveshi Halder, an artist settled in Bellevue, Washington, who had graduated in Economics at St Xavier's College from 2006-09 said, " Litti-chokha is undoubtedly famous on the east coast of United States including North Carolina, South Carolina, New York, New Jersey, Maryland and Florida but not the same on our side." 
 
  Litti is prepared by flour wherein cereals and ground pulses are mixed. This kind of flour is called Sattu. Onion, lemon, garlic and salt are added in it. The material is roasted and served with or without ghee. Chokha is the smashed potato including salt, garlic, onion and chilly flakes. Both litti and chokha is served with tomato chutney. 
 
 Sinha said the group displaying such Bihar-Jharkhand customs is called Sparsh and has 150 members. 
 
 
