KOLHAPUR: Subham Salokhe, an engineering student from Kolhapur, spent the whole of Thursday afternoon in the search of an   (ATM) of nationalised and   loaded with cash, but failed to find one. 

 Like Subham, many citizens are experiencing shortage of cash in the ATMs of private and nationalised banks since past several days. The experience is a reminder of the post-demonetisation days when the ATMs did not have cash and the government put ceiling on withdrawals.
 
 “ATMs run dry on most days in the afternoon and you can get money only in the morning. These days, it feels like we are back in the demonetisation period, when ATMs would mostly be shut. Banks and government should make efforts to ensure ATMs run for the whole day without any interruption,” Subham said, 
 
 Pramod Jadhav, a resident and businessperson from suburban Sambhajinagar area, said he could not understand why such a situation has returned. “There are few ATMs in the suburban areas that do not have cash since last week. We fail to understand whether this is a implementation crisis or the effect of some policy level decision to reduce dependency on the cash,” he said. 
 
 Jadhav said that it is not always possible to approach a bank to withdraw cash. “It is a time-consuming exercise. In emergency cases, one can directly approach ATMs. In the past, banks made consumers habituated to use more cash and now they are following government instructions to reduce dependency on the cash,” he said. 
 
 A top official from a leading nationalised bank said there were several reasons for the ATMs running dry in the past few days. “After the restrictions on withdrawal from ATMs were lifted, we have seen an increase in the cash drawn from the ATMs compared to demonetisation period. In pre-demonetisation period, we would put Rs 10 to 12 lakh per day into the ATMs. But now, we are putting Rs 16 lakh daily basis and it is proving to be insufficient to cater to the demands of customers,” the official said. 
 
 He added that the banks have noted a sudden withdrawal trend in the last few days. Moreover, banks have stopped allocating money to cash distribution agencies for emergency period due to some theft cases. “Therefore, recapitalisation of ATMs has not been taking place in the afternoon and ultimately affecting customers. We are working out ways to overcome this problem,” he said. 
 
 After the demonetisation period, employees of a private cash distribution firm stole Rs 3.33 crore from ATMs of three banks in Sangli. Thereafter, banks stopped recapitalisation of ATMs at the night time. 
 
 Meanwhile, cash transactions have increased in retail market as well.  , a trader in  , said customers had started asking for cashless mode of transactions during the demonetisation period. “The picture is different now. Cash transactions have returned and have once again become the norm in the   The only increase that has been noted is in the percentage of cheque payment,” he said. 
 
