HYDERABAD: The state government has informed the Chennai bench of   (NGT) that it obtained permission from forest authorities to cut or translocate 1,394 trees in and around   Park, Road No. 45 junction, Film Nagar junction and Maharaja Agrasen Chowk in Hyderabad for its Strategic Road Development Plan (SRDP). 

 The government filed a counter before the NGT and sought lifting of stay imposed on the project work by the tribunal to allow it to construct the multi-level flyover bridges all over the city aimed at decongesting the traffic. It held that SRDP authorities have submitted an application for permission to cut trees to the designated authority (divisional forest officer) under the Telangana Water, Land and Trees Act.
 
 The authority referred the application to the district-level tree protection committee officials pertaining to Hyderabad and Ranga Reddy districts. The panel examined the application and gave its nod for felling of trees, the state said in its counter.
 
 The counter, filed on behalf of the chief secretary, environment secretary and forest conservator, opposed the queries raised by senior counsel M C Mehta, who was assisting the tribunal that took up the series of news items published by The Times of India as a petition and stayed the construction of the project.
 
 Contrary to objections raised by Mehta, the project does not require any prior clearance as the multi-level flyovers will not come under the environment clearance regulations, 2006, the state said. Moreover, they are scattered across the city and each one is a separate project and none of them is exceeding limits prescribed under the building and construction category, the counter application said.
 
 The state also tried to derive its strength from a   judgement that said actual built-up areas have to be taken into consideration and not the whole area of the project. This order binds NGT too, the state contended.
 
 Maintaining that KBR Park was a notified a national park, the state government said it was never an eco-sensitive zone and an extent of 13.8 hectares of the park area has been earmarked for future widening of road around the park.
 
 The southern bench of NGT took suo motu cognizance of the matter in May last year after TOI ran a series of stories about the state government's plans of axing 3,000 trees in and around KBR Park to make way for the SRDP.
 
 Subsequently , three parties filed implead petitions before the two-member bench - K Purushotham Reddy (representing the people's collective Hyderabad Rising), D Narasimha Reddy and Thakur Rajkumar Singh. The project has since then been put on hold.
 
