MUMBAI: When scientist   returned to Mumbai from Switzerland in 2010 after completing his second doctorate in genomics, there was limited information about the role of genetic mutations in   among Indians.

 It was known around 15% of the Caucasian patients of lung   had a particular gene mutation known as the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR). Japanese studies showed EGFR mutations in almost 50% of lung cancer patients, but no corresponding data was available for the Indian patient pool. As medicines to nullify the effects of the EGFR mutation were readily available, diagnosing the mutation would have helped faster treatment.
 
 Dutt’s first study after returning home found just that: between 23% to 25% of lung cancer patients here have the EGFR mutation. As scientist F grade with the Advanced Centre for Treatment, Research and Education in Cancer (ACTREC) — better known as the research wing of Mumbai’s   — Dutt collaborated with medical oncologist Dr Kumar Prabash to study 1,000 patients to deduce this.
 
 It’s not just the hospital’s doctors who have helped create its reputation as India’s best cancer-care centre; its scientists too have contributed.
 
 Dutt was earlier this week named one of the young scientists to win the Shanti Swaroop Bhatnagar Award.
 
 “Research has to translate into work done in clinics. This has been possible in   Centre because scientists and doctors work together,” said Dutt. The award citation mentions his contribution to lung cancer research in India. With a team of 17, the Dutt lab has managed to publish 25 research papers in high-impact medical journals since 2011. Of these, eight relate to lung cancer. His second paper had an effect on treatment costs.
 
 “The EGFR test used to cost between $200 and $300 till five years back, but with Dr Prabash’s team we worked out a diagnostic test using nonproprietorial (non-patented) material that reduced the cost to $12 or between Rs 800 and Rs1,100,” he said.
 
 Dr Prabash said the hospital was constantly looking to develop cost-effective interventions. “We have Indian data regarding molecular profiling to develop more effective treatment. In Dr Dutt, we found someone eager to investigate all these aspects,” he said.
 
 While scientists across the world have found 50-off genetic mutations that could lead to lung cancer, treatment is available for nine.
 
