BATHINDA: Taking a leaf from   chief Capt Amarinder Singh’s electoral campaign ‘Punjab da Captain’, the Aam Aadmi Party has come up with a similar one-liner, ‘Punjab da Jarnail’, to counter rival parties’ claims of its Lambi candidate, Delhi MLA Jarnail Singh, being an outsider.

 Jarnail, who represents Rajouri Garden constituency in the Delhi legislative assembly, has been fielded against chief minister   for the upcoming assembly elections. Though the MLA whose claim to fame is hurling a shoe at a Union minister, P Chidambaram, in 2009 is yet to start his election campaign, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has already started pasting posters and painting walls with the one-liner. The party has also targetted Badal by coming up with the slogan “Badal nahi, badlav” ( Not Badal, but change).
 
 To counter the “outsider” claims, Jarnail has said he was ready to vacate his seat in the Delhi assembly, but would not leave Lambi. AAP has already prepared half-a-dozen open vehicles for campaigning. Though it is expected that   (SAD) may field Badal from Lambi, the candidature is yet to be announced. Congress, too, has not announced its candidate. “It is the toughest fight of Punjab. AAP wants to conquer Punjab with a bang. For that, defeating Akali patriarch Parkash Singh Badal is most important. We will fight to demolish Badal’s regime from his own stronghold,” Jarnail told TOI.
 
 He said AAP workers had pulled up its socks and was making plans to start campaigning in all 74 villages of Lambi. “At present, I am getting my vote deleted in Delhi, so that I can enroll as a voter in Punjab. Hopefully, I will start my campaign in a day or so,” Jarnail said.
 
 The Election Commission had asked Jarnail to get his vote deleted in Delhi if he wanted to contest in Punjab, citing Section 4 of the Representation of the People Act, 1950.
 
 AAP’s Bathinda   constituency observer, Romi Bhati, said the party had prepared an “extensive plan” for “aggressive campaigning” in Lambi to take on the senior-most SAD leader. “We are putting in more energy to manage campaigning in a systematic way; we will try to make a place in the hearts of people,” he said.
 
 The SAD has, so far, rubbished AAP’s claims of winning from Lambi. “Akali Dal is ready to give a crushing defeat to the AAP candidate. Jarnail should worry about saving his security deposit from being forfeited in Lambi,” SAD spokesperson Manjinder Singh Sirsa said.
 
 
