PUNE: Shiv Sena president   on Monday questioned why the BJP, which has promised to waive off farmers’ loans in Uttar Pradesh if it came to power, was not doing the same in Maharashtra despite having its own government.

 “If (chief minister) Devendra Fadnavis waives off farmers’ loans here, I will assure him my party’s full support forever,” Thackeray said while speaking at a rally in Pimpri Chinchwad. He said he had also made a similar request to Union finance minister Arun Jaitley.
 
 “The BJP knows it will not come to power in UP. Despite this, it has included humbug in its manifesto, promising to waive off farmers’ loans and saying that all future loans will be interest-free. But I’m saying the same thing. You will do this if you come to power in UP. Here, in Maharashtra, you already have your government. We are with you. Why don’t you immediately waive off farmers’ loans? Who has stopped you from doing this?” Thackeray asked.
 
 A Sena delegation had recently met Fadnavis at his residence and demanded a loan waiver for farmers. Political circles are abuzz that the Sena might take a call to withdraw support of the government by raising the loan waiver issue just before the   (BMC) elections. 
 
 Thackeray again targeted Prime Minister Narendra Modi, saying 200 people had lost their lives because of demonetization. “The PM had asked for 50 days (for the note crunch to end), but the days seem to be unending. Common people have been standing in queues for the last many days. There is unemployment, and people have lost their jobs,” he said.
 
 The Sena president questioned why the state government had not acted on its promise of waiving of toll on the highways. He also accused the BJP of wrongly taking credit for projects. “The Congress had implemented the metro rail project in Mumbai and the state government is taking credit for it. Even the bullet train between Mumbai and Ahmedabad was proposed by the Congress government,” he said.
 
 Referring to the politics in Pimpri Chinchwad, Thackeray said the NCP and BJP were “two sides of the same coin”. “The BJP has promised to make Pimpri Chinchwad ‘bhay mukt’ (free of fear) but, at the same time, has inducted criminals in the party who are accused of murder and extortion,” he said.
 
 The Sena has been maintaining an aggressive stance against the BJP for some time now, with Thackeray threatening to withdraw support to the state government if the senior partner did not clear its stand on issues his party had raised. On Sunday, Thackeray went a step further by threatening to sever ties with the BJP and spoke of the likelihood of a mid-term poll in the state. 
 
 A few days back, Sena mouthpiece   put out an editorial which lauded the Congress reign in the country for 60 years, hailed Indira Gandhi for breaking Pakistan into two in the 1971 war and praised Rajiv Gandhi for bringing in the telecommunication age. It asked what changes Modi had brought about in the country.
 
