NASHIK: City MLA   raised the matter of the gynaecologist from  , who is under scanner for an alleged  , running a hospital and   without permission. 

 Moreover, the BJP leader has questioned how the gynaecologist could run the hospital and practice there while working at the government set-up. 
 
 Doctors working in government hospitals and drawing the non-practising allowance (NPA) are not allowed private practise. Pharande has instructed the civil surgeon to check all the government doctors, who are having their own private practice. "The hospital and sonography centre were running illegally, without any permission. The gynaecologist was also performing medical termination of pregnancies without permission. These are serious violations of the Pre-Conception Pre-natal Diagnostic Techniques Act," Pharande said. 
 
 The gynaecologist from the Nashik civil hospital has been under the scanner since an   team raided the premises based on a tip-off. The team was informed about a medical termination of pregnancy performed on March 22 to abort a 24-week foetus. 
 
 Senior government officials said that doctors get non-practising allowance, which is approximately 35% of their basic salary. The basic aim of the NPA to doctors is to ensure that they do not overlook their basic duty for their private practise. Every month, a sort of undertaking is also signed by them. The doctors can certainly face action if found doing private practise. 
 
 The officials added that while the doctors cannot run their own clinic they can always lend help to their practising friend, spouse, relative, etc doctors use this freedom to the hilt for their private practice.
 
 Senior officials of Nashik civil hospital said there are rural hospitals in almost every taluka and the government has also set up primary health centres at the village level. In case of emergency, if treatment is not possible at these rural centres, the ambulance on call has also been made available, apart from other financial schemes for the needy patients and a host of helpline numbers. While all such schemes are in place and it is finally the government doctor, who has to treat the patient. In the meantime, the district health department has started a drive from March 15 to check hospitals in the city and across the district if they are registered with them.
 
