LUCKNOW:   movement within 2km radius of the Vidhan Bhawan came to a standstill for three hours when hundreds of Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) workers staged   against UP government near the BJP office on   Marg on Tuesday. The barricading on Darulshafa road paralysed the traffic movement on three linked routes. 

 Around 2.30pm, RLD workers started gathering on Darulshafa road. Traffic   barricaded the road from two sides—from Darulshafa to Novelty cinema crossing and from GPO to Hazratganj Crossing.
 
 As a result, vehicles were stranded on roads leading to Novelty crossing, Kaiserbagh road, Hazratganj, Vidhan Sabha, MG Marg and Burlington crossing for hours. The workers of the Ajit Singh-led party also clashed with the police when they were stopped at the barricades. Three ambulances were stuck in traffic jam for over 45 minutes on MG Marg while two more were stranded near Sikanderbagh crossing for over 30 minutes. Sarvesh Kumar Gupta, who was with a patient being taken in an ambulance, said the patient had sustained head injuries and it was crucial that he reached the Trauma Centre immediately. 
 
 Stuck in traffic near Sikaderbagh crossing, Shresth Tiwari said, “I had to pick my daughter up from school but have been stuck here for two hours. I had to call up the school in charge.” 
 
 Even students who walk it everyday had a tough time negotiating the crowd of protesters who were getting aggressive with time. Police on duty at the BJP office helped them out. Many other students were stuck in the traffic for hours near Hazratganj crossing.
 
 Another commuter, Mayank Pandey, said, “I was stuck in jam more than three times since I left my office for official work. I had to reach Hussainganj from Hazratganj and it took me over an hour to cover a stretch of 100 meters.”
 
 Hazratganj Police CO Abhay Mishra said they succeeded iu confining 5,000 protesters to Darulshafa.
 
 ASP (east) SK Mishra said, “We did not cane-charge any worker and some, who crossed the barricade, were only shown ‘lathis’ as a warning. Nobody was detained and the group was allowed to meet the governor and hand over their eight-point agenda.” Two PAC platoons, 20 sub-inspectors, 10 inspectors, three ASPs and 10 Dy SPs had been deployed to contain the protest. 
 
 
