AHMEDABAD: The victim-witnesses of the   -   and   - have approached   and questioned the special SIT court's verdict that brushed aside the theory of  . 

 Both of the victims had lost sons in the communal violence at the colony in Chamanpura on February 28, 2002, one day after the Godhra carnage. The film 'Parzania' was based on Roopa Mody's loss of her son Azhar. 
 
 On June 17, 2016, the SIT court convicted 24 persons and acquitted 36 others for the killing of 69 persons, including former Congress party MP Ehsan Jafri. Eleven persons were awarded life imprisonment and 13 others received jail terms of up to 10 years for minor offences because they were not held guilty of murder.
 
 The appellants are seeking the enhancement of punishment for the 13 of 24 persons, who were punished for minor offences. They raised questions over the conclusions of the SIT court, which discarded the contention of prosecuting agency that the killings at Gulbarg Society were a pre-planned conspiracy or a larger conspiracy. The court in its verdict said evidence with regard to conspiracy was "extremely flimsy and cannot be relied upon". 
 
 In discarding allegations of criminal conspiracy, the trial dubbed a witness's statement as "uninspiring and downright ridiculous", when he told the court that he had heard Hindus saying they intended to kill Muslims. The court also refused to accept the sting operation carried out by Tehelka, which showed the accused confessing the crime, as corroborative evidence.
 
 The appellant duo also filed an appeal against the lower court's decision of exonerating 36 persons in this case. They have submitted that the court did not properly appreciate evidence in their case and there is enough evidence to convict them. A bench of Justice S R Brahmbhatt and Justice A J Shastri admitted this appeal against acquittal on Friday and decided to hear it along with the appeals filed by the convicts challenging their conviction, said advocate MM Tirmizi. 
 
 Meanwhile, more than seven months have passed, but the SIT and the state government has not challenged the special court's decision of acquitting the 36 persons, neither has it sought enhancement of punishment. SIT officials as well as the special prosecutor had told media persons on the day of verdict that the court's decision would be challenged before the high court.
 
