PM Modi will lay the foundation stone for an   hospital in Bilaspur, Himachal Pradesh, on October 3, intensifying BJP’s campaign for the upcoming   in November-December.
 
  The run-up to the event is also bringing into the open aspirations of state party leaders keen to be portrayed as BJP’s CM face. Union health minister  , who is from Bilaspur, has said the institute is an achievement of the NDA government in health sector.
  
  He has been in the state for over a week now, reaching out to party workers in every constituency to ensure the PM’s rally is a grand success.
  
  Another contender for BJP’s CM face is former Himachal Pradesh CM PK Dhumal’s son Anurag Thakur, party insiders said. Thakur recently congratulated the PM for the project and also talked about the efforts he made for the project. Earlier, he had said that he wrote letters to CM   and Nadda to know the status of the project, concerned over its delay.
  
  His father Dhumal had last week said the party must declare its CM candidate considering “Himachal is a small state where people would want to know who they could approach in time of need”.
  
  According to sources, another senior BJP leader Shanta Kumar has already made peace with Nadda.
  
  The situation is similar in the ruling Congress. On Saturday, CM Virbhadra Singh met Congress VP   to talk about his differences with state chief SS Sukhu, party insiders said. According to sources, the CM “even threatened he would not contest” if Sukhu was not removed. But efforts are being made to pacify him, they said. “The leadership is clear that the party has to fight like a team, but the differences are huge,” a Congress leader said.
  
  With early predictions giving an advantage to BJP in the upcoming elections, the Congress government has rolled out various sops for government employees and job benefits in the last few days. The BJP in its campaign is expected to highlight corruption charges against the CM, former Union minister Sukh Ram and AICC secretary Asha Kumari.
