PUNE: The   junior college (FYJC, standard XI)   was marred by   on the first day.

 The website (http://pune.11thadmission.net) for the process failed to load for initial four to five hours, hitting online filling of forms. Also, the information booklets failed to reach some zones further aggravating the problem.
 
 The students were told to fill up Part-I of the admission form with basic details from 1pm. However, the admission portal was able to load only after 5pm.
 
 The distribution of information booklets was also slow. Some zones received the booklets only after 2pm while a couple of others did not receive them at all. The booklets were to arrive from the deputy director of education.
 
 Officials of the centralised admission process (CAP) committee said there was some technical snag in the website. “As far as information booklets are concerned, they will reach all zones by end of the day,” they said.
 
 The colleges were told to collect the information booklets from the main zone. They were to distribute them to the students thereafter. Each zone has about 50 to 60 colleges and till 4pm, a couple of zones had not zones received the booklets. As a result, college representatives that had come to collect the booklets went back empty-handed.
 
 A zone officer, who did not wish to be named, said, “We have close to 65 colleges under us. Since morning, the college representatives have been queueing up for the booklets. When we contacted the CAP committee, we were told that the booklets are expected to arrive any moment. However, it is 4pm now and the booklets are yet to arrive.”
 
 Around 5.30pm, assistant deputy director of education   said, “The information booklets were sent to all the zones on Wednesday itself. It is taking some more time for these booklets to reach some zones. However, they all will get the booklets by Thursday night.”
 
 On the admission portal, Raut said, “Initially the website failed to load due to some technical snag. We took help of the technicians and got it fixed. The website was running by 5pm.”
 
 Principal of a school in Shivajinagar said, “Our students tried to fill the forms repeatedly but to no avail. We will start the process again on Friday.”
 
 Students have been advised to collect the information booklet containing the password and login ID from their respective schools or guidance centres and fill in the forms at respective places.
 
