CHENNAI: With automation set to reduce manpower requirements across various industrial sectors by 60-70%, engineering graduates will struggle to find jobs if institutions prioritise marks and outdated framework to learning concepts, according to vice president of  , Sandhya Chintala. 

 He was speaking at a seminar as part of the inaugural Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Innovation Ecosystem Awards - 2017, hosted by  . Chintala said engineering graduates will need to accept the reality that employers will not fancy them unless they possess a skill set that can make them coveted. "What you have learnt (in classrooms) so far is good but the things you cannot do without are the skill sets the industry demands," she said.
 
 This requires a shake up in the faculty circuit as well, Chintala said. Training a student to fit an individual job profile, like coding for example, will ill-equip the candidate as his/her abilities outside of it is redundant. "An engineering graduate needs to have multiple skill sets. A mechanical engineering student should be able to problem solve in the field of cyber security as well," she said.
 
 Earlier, chairman of Sairam Institutions, Sai Prakash Leo Muthu, said as many as 1,398 student registrations for the contest. 
 
 After 500 were shortlisted, 100 exhibits made it to the grand finale on Saturday. The best three projects would be rewarded with 15 lakh cash prize on Sunday, the final day of the programme. "Thinking out of the box will serve the engineering graduates well," Sai Prakash said, stressing upon the importance of innovation and invention, two key highlights of the programme. 
 
 During the programme, a hologram image of former President Abdul Kalam was projected on the screen, complete with life like voice-overs. The virtual avatar of the former president fielded questions from students of Sairam Engineering College amid loud cheers of approval from the students. 
 
 Among several noteworthy projects, a carbon sponge technology that could help with clearing oil spills, produced by an IT engineering student Mehul Ashok from Mumbai, impressed many.
 
 
