With India hosting its first ever FIFA event — with the upcoming   next month, it also presents a field of opportunities for the hosts and fans.
And running with the ball will be Kerala as the State will be organising a first of its kind event titled   on September 27, with the focus to create a few records of its own.
 
 The event aims to have one million people participating by kicking the ball into empty goal posts across the State.
 
  says that the programme has been organised to boost the spirit of football among Malayalis, ahead of the World Cup matches that will be held in Kochi’s Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium.
 
 “As our State is getting international exposure with the World Cup, we wanted to organise some unique promotional events with public participation. That’s how One Million Goals happened and it will also be an attempt for a world record as 10 lakh goals must be scored within four hours,” he says.
 
 As part of the State-wide affair, posts will be erected at various centres in each district, including government institutions, schools, colleges, stadiums and playgrounds. Any one can score goals from the penalty spot and the size of the posts will differ depending on the venue.
 
 According to the  , each panchayath, municipality and corporation will be given targets of 2,000, 10,000 and 15,000 goals, respectively. Volunteers assigned at respective venues will calculate the number of goals using a mobile app. The forums scoring maximum number of goals will also be awarded.
 
 D Mohanan, president of   and convener of One Million Goals Thiruvananthapuram committee, says the event will encourage more youth to get involved in sports.
 
 “Being a promotional event, people of all age groups can kick goals and that will be a novel experience for many,” he says, adding that each person will be allowed to kick only one goal.
 
 Ace footballer   hails the event, saying, “It is going to be cheerful affair with people from all walks of life including kids and elderly shooting goals. This event will also attract people to football and will reach out to the common folk across the State.”
 
 Meanwhile, other promotional events planned include celebrity football matches. “There will also be matches between the Chief Minister’s XI and Speaker’s XI, and also between IAS and IPS officers at the   in Thiruvananthapuram on September 27,” says Mohanan.
 
