NAGPUR: Fearing Congressmen’s fury during a promotional event of his film ‘Indu Sarkar’ in Nagpur, filmmaker   cancelled the function on Sunday and tweeted to party vice president   to ask him if he approves of “this hooliganism.”

 Bhandarkar cancelled the event after the   workers gathered at his proposed press meet venue to lodge their protest against the alleged defamatory content of the movie. The Congress has objected to the film, saying it may have portrayed Indira Gandhi and her son Sanjay Gandhi in a bad light. Bhandarkar had to face Congressmen’s ire in Pune too on Saturday after which he had to cancel the promotional events there.
 
 A senior police official said Congress workers were waiting to meet Bhandarkar at the venue where he was supposed to brief media about the upcoming film.
 
 However, after they came to know that the filmmaker was not going to come to the spot, they went to the hotel where Bhandarkar was staying. But by then he had already checked out of the hotel.
 
 After cancelling the events, Bhandarkar tweeted to Rahul Gandhi’s Office saying, “Dear @OfficeOfRG after Pune I have 2 cancel today’s PressCon at Nagpur.
 
 Do you approve of this hooliganism? Can I have my Freedom of Expression?”   congress spokesperson Atul Londhe said, “The people of India will not accept any attempt to malign the image of late Prime Minister Indira Gandhi who laid down her life for the unity and integrity of the country.
 
 “If the producers had nothing to hide about the movie, they should have first shown it to the Congress leaders and the members of the Gandhi family.”
 
 Nagpur Congress chief Vikas Thakre, said, “We wanted to meet Bhandarkar and know as to why he was not showing the movie to the concerned Congress leaders. What is he hiding?” Speaking to reporters at the airport, Bhandarkar said he was going to appeal against certain cuts suggested by the Censor board.
 
 “I have already said that the Censor board asked for some cuts in the movie. These cuts I have not accepted, and we will be appealing for revision and going to the (appellate) tribunal for it... I appeal to the film industry and people believing in the freedom of expression to support the film,” he said. Due to Congress workers’ protests, he was not able to promote the film, Bhandarkar said. “We have cancelled promotions in Bangalore and Ahmedabad due to fear of agitation,” he said.
 
 On the charge that the film maligns the image of Indira Gandhi and other Congress leaders of the past, Bhandarkar said, “I have not made the film to malign anyone. Otherwise I would have made a 100% documentary, and not a film.” 
 
 
 
