PUNE: Interviews are on full swing. Confident   with   are pitching their big-picture ideas with gusto.

 Well, the talking point is not campus interviews at premier business schools. The candidates facing the   boards these days in the city now are wannabe  .
 
 All major political parties have started interviewing aspirants ahead of the municipal elections. The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress recently completed the preliminary rounds, while the BJP is expected to complete it in the next two days.
 
 Among the interviewees are sitting corporators, confident of their renomination. The new aspirants want the parties’ top guns to give a chance to young faces. Besides the usual show of “strength” comprising a huge number of supporters, they are trying to secure candidature with an impressive biodata and proof of social works in their wards.
 
 The BJP’s head office has been full of action for the past two days. The rush of aspirants has been significant.
 
 A young aspirant from Kothrud area said after arriving at the office with his supporters that he deserved candidature because of his consistent work for the past few years. “I have been associated with the party for long. Election is a platform where candidates can present their vision before citizens and if elected, can push ideas of development,” he said.
 
 Another aspirant said the parties must decide the candidature on merit and caste, religion or financial strength should not be the criteria. The younger generation must get a chance and seasoned leaders must make way for the young blood, the aspirant added.
 
 Political observers iterated caste equations still played a key role while deciding the nominations because the parties did not want to lose the voter base. They added seasoned candidates still had the edge over newcomers.
 
 A senior NCP leader present for the interviews said aspirants turn up in large numbers for civic elections. Everyone projects him/herself as the most eligible candidate. Parties consider various parameters before giving nomination. There is a check on candidate’s capability in handling civic issues, his study of the city, vision and reasons why he or she wants the candidature.
 
 “This time, aspirants came with their own agenda of development during interviews. Some assured of a comfortable win, while others tried to convince about the huge support they enjoyed at the local-level,” the leader added.
 
 Sources in the political circles stressed the BJP had seen the most number of aspirants queuing up for tickets, followed by the NCP and Congress. “Hopes are high for the BJP this time and aspirants are sure of a win. Many sitting corporators have also joined the BJP recently to ensure their presence in the civic body for the next five years,” a source said.
 
 A source in the NCP said its first list of candidates could be out by next week. The other parties are likely to postpone the announcement to avoid defection.
 
