On the morning of September 29, when some of the daily commuters travelled to   to get to work braving an annoyingly rainy day, little did they know that it would be their last. 

  Since it was pouring, some took refuge in the already packed foot-over-bridge (FOB) that connects the station to   on the Central Railway line. Suddenly, someone shouted, “The bridge is about to fall.” The killer stampede that followed that fateful morning claimed 23 lives and left 39l in a critical state. 
 
  Five days later, the city is back to work after a long weekend and is channelling its emotions in whichever way it can — while some are fuming with anger over the government’s negligence, others are petrified to walk on that bridge again. Right outside the bridge, a collage of the deceased victims’ pictures with oversized garlands can be seen hanging on a billboard. Partially melted candles act as testament to the fact that   have not forgotten their friends and fellow travellers, but there is a sense of detachment when they speak about the tragedy that had befallen them.
 
  “We are used to these tragedies now,” says Vishal Dabale, an employee of a reputed bank who lost his classmate-and-colleague in the tragedy. “Hiloni (one of the victims) was from my college and had completed her CA in 2016. Her life had just started and it was really sad to see the way she left us. I am assuming we will maintain two minutes silence in our office in her memory. Mumbai is such a place that people move on and go to work the next day. I don’t think there will be much of a difference,” he reasons.
 
  No matter how big the tragedy, Mumbai seems to have designed an internal system to combat accidents or terror attacks. “It is like a normal day for me. Tragedies happen in the city, but we cannot stop using the train or this bridge. In the past, the government said they would build a bigger bridge, but see what happened. There is nothing we can do about it. All we can do is give our sympathies to the bereaved families. Life has to go on,” said another young banker, Ravi Bengani.
 
  DA Parab, a street vendor, who has spent 32 years of his life selling newspapers outside the station, has witnessed many incidents in his life, but nothing like the Elphinstone Road stampede. “I have never seen a tragedy like this before. I have been selling newspapers at this station for so many years, nothing like this has happened in the past. Not too many people came forward to help. I don’t know if they visited the hospital, but they were nowhere on the day of the incident.” One particular victim has left a lasting impression in his fading memory. “I still remember that moment when I was trying to save a commuter; I gave her water to drink, but within a few minutes, she died. This tragedy will haunt me forever,” he says.
 
  For 23 people, life was cut short in the blink of an eye; however, some got lucky. “I got saved because I bumped into my friend who offered to walk me out of the station, as he had a spare umbrella,” shares Dinesh Devnani, a chartered accountant. College students Nalini Pathade and Sayali Patil, both 16, are glad that they did not step out of their homes that day. “We are neither sad nor angry, we are scared. What happened that day was very sad. People are now worried about travelling on this bridge, but there is no other option. I hope the tragedy will bring about some positive change and our rail infrastructure is improved,” says Sayali.
 
 
