AHMEDABAD: They saw death at close quarters and escaped, only to be trapped in a life which is living hell with every breath they take. Some 116 Muslim families — survivors of the 2002 Naroda Patia massacre where 97 persons were killed — have been living at Citizen Nagar for 15 years, next to Ahmedabad biggest dump site, Pirana. The dump has eight lakh tonnes of legacy waste and life next to the smouldering heap is a daily struggle that literally leaves them gasping for breath.

 Of these families, 26 persons were witnesses to the massacre and were provided police protection. However, the cops are conspicuous by their absence. “The cops come once in a while and leave, saying the stench is unbearable and the air too polluted,” says eyewitness  .
 
 At the entrance is a board that says: “Residents of Citizen Nagar will gather to pray for the lives lost in the 2002 massacre on the 15th anniversary of the riots on February 28”. 
 
 Behind any door in the locality and you will find someone with respiratory problems. The most common medication at homes here is a cheap plastic inhaler, pumping a dose of medication into the lungs, to make breathing easier.
 
 Mayyudin, the 13-year-old son of eyewitness-survivor Shayra Shaikh, carries his inhaler with him all the time. “Mayyudin has acute respiratory problems. He got an asthma attack last night and the table fell on his legs as he scrambled to get to the inhaler.”
 
 Shayra said doctors advised her to leave the colony to save her son. “We are facing slow death everyday, but moving is not an option, as our income is barely enough for survival.”
 
  (60) lost her husband and son at Citizen Nagar. Both died of respiratory problems. “My husband   died struggling with respiratory problems in 2013 and my son Riyaz, who was around 30 then, also died due to respiratory trouble,” she said.
 
 Basu Shaikh (42), a tailor who lives in a small house with just a wall separating him from the 53-metre high waste mountain, says he cannot live without his inhaler. “I started facing respiratory problem in 2003. Doctors advised me to move but I do not have money to rent or buy a new place,” he said.  , a social worker who filed a public interest litigation in the high court, said the riot survivors were literally dumped near the Pirana dumping site. “They deserve better housing as citizens of the state,” Siddique said.
 
 Forced to send daughter back to Naroda Patia
 
 Faruq Shaikh, an autorickshaw driver and witness to the 2002 Naroda Patiya massacre, was rehabilitated in Citizen Nagar. After this 17-year-old daughter developed asthma from inhaling the polluted air, he sent her back to Naroda Patia, to live with her grandmother. “My heart aches to see my daughter living where so many people died, but I also want her to live,” Shaikh said.
 
 No bride wants to come here 
 
 Asif Nawab (32) is a manufacturer of water purifier machines for industrial use and earns a relatively decent monthly income of Rs 30,000 to Rs 40,000. He is unable to find a bride because don’t want to send their daughter to the polluted Citizen Nagar. “No family is ready to give their daughter in marriage to live in this polluted area. There are around 20 boys like me who are looking for brides,” he added.
 
 
