HYDERABAD: If weight loss is on your mind, junk crash diets and elaborate plans. Instead, doctors say just eating and sleeping well might be the best option. Sleep experts are recommending eight hours of sound sleep a day to fight weight-related issues to stay healthy.

 The World Sleep Society (WSS) describes sleep as one of the “three pillars of good health“, the fourth pillar being balanced food and physical exercise. On the occasion of  , that falls on March 17 this year (Friday before the vernal equinox), it urged people not to take for granted time for rest and to “sleep soundly, nurture life“. According to experts, there are about 100 types of sleep disorders and 90% of them can be solved by regulating sleeping hours and pattern.
 
 “Individuals, who get an entire night's sleep without any interruptions, experience lower rates of high blood pressure, diabetes, obesity and other chronic illnesses,“ says a WSS document on the eve of the World Sleep Day. Good diet and good sleep not only help the body physiologically and psychologically, but also bring down extra weight. “Sleep is a basic human need, much like eating and drinking,“ the WSS sad in its 10 commandments on good sleep and sound health.
 
 Sound sleep is especially essential for children as any disturbance in their health patterns in this growing age may have a severe impact later on.“There is evidence of a link between sleep duration and childhood obesity,“ the WSS says.
 
 Doctors back home in Hyderabad say that undisturbed sleep for eight hours a day can help in fighting obesity in adults too.
 
 One of the major factors affecting sleep patterns is sleep apnea. It is seen more in men than women, with men being twice more prone to the problem than women. City doctors also link certain types of cancers to poor sleeping patterns.The most common outcome of irregular sleep is depression and anxiety. Bad mood is also blamed on lack of sleep. Dr Vijay Kumar Chennamchetty, senior   and sleep disorder expert at Apollo Hospitals, Hyderabad, said that though sleep disorders are quite common in Hyderabad, there are no official statistics with regard to associated morbidity or mortality. “In my clinical practice, at least 10 to 15 new cases are diagnosed per month.   (OSAS) has emerged as the major public health problem,“ he said, blaming smoking and alcohol for aggravation of cases.
 
 According to Dr  , sleep specialist at KIMS Hospitals, lack of awareness about good sleep is telling on the health of people.“We can't live without sleep. We spend nearly a third of our life in sleep. Yet, many of us do not pay attention to the phenomenon of sleep or recognize its profound effect on our personal health and well-being. Perhaps we even think of ourselves as “lazy“ for feeling tired or needing to get a full night's rest,“ he observed.
 
 Doctors also relate increase in diabetes cases to sleep deprivation. Those sleeping for less than six hours or more than nine hours a day are more prone to diabetes. A study on breast cancer has pointed out people sleeping for less than six hours are at risk of breast cancer.
 
