PUNE: Soon, city-based Armed Forces Medical College may increase its   of students for the Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (MBBS) course. 

 Director-General of   (DGAFMS) Lieutenant General M K Unni on Wednesday said they are in the process of raising the number of medical students from 130 to 150.
 
 Lt Gen Unni, who is also Senior Colonel Commandant,   (AMC), was in the city as the chief guest for the commissioning ceremony of the 51st batch of medical graduates. 
 
 He said that after increasing the intake, the   would fulfil the 50% requirement of the armed forces. “We have to fill up half of its vacancies from the civil medical institute. It is a good mix, having students from civilian institutes and AFMC. When students come from two different streams, they mingle well and ideas from each other are imbibed,” he added.
 
 Unni further hinted that there is a possibility of establishing another medical college on the lines of the AFMC in the near future. “At present, the plan is on the drawing board,” he said.
 
 On Wednesday, 100 medical graduates were commissioned into the Armed Forces Medical Services. As many as 84 graduates joined the Army, 12 joined the Air Force and four joined the Indian Navy.
 
 Earlier, while addressing the newly-commissioned officers, Unni advised them to serve the nation with dedication, courage and valour. 
 
 “Compassion, empathy, commitment, understanding and effective communication are essential ingredients for effective patient care. Science and technology have revolutionised medical practice but can never replace the dependence on human counsel. Work hard and learn about the practice of medicine,” he said.
 
 Commissioning ceremony
 
 This year’s graduation event was AFMC’s 51st ceremony.
 
 As part of this landmark event, the parade was concluded with a display of synchronised gymnastics by a contingent of BEG Centre in Khadki, representing the  , and Brass Band of INS Shivaji, representing the Navy.
 
 The parade started with a flypast by helicopters of 141 SSS Flight, representing the Air Force, underscoring the tri-services’ affiliation to the armed forces medical services.
 
