Sleeping is important not only for mental but for physical wellness too. But the role that   plays in our well-being is something that is rarely taken into consideration. Let us know why power nap is important and what all incredible benefits it provides. 
 
 Sara Mednick, a sleep scientist and author of “Take a Nap! Change your life” says that without a mid-day power nap, an individual cannot perform at an optimum level throughout the day. A short snooze has the ability to improve dexterity, skills and aptitude. It refreshes mood and makes our mind more attentive. You must have noticed that young children and elderly people usually have a habit of taking a nap during the day around the same time, every day. And some people tend to   soon after lunch. Sometimes, when you feel exhausted or tired, you feel a need to take a power nap. 
  
 A nap for ten to thirty minutes is sufficient as a longer duration nap can lead to grogginess. The best time for a power nap is between 1 to 4 pm, as after that it can disrupt the natural sleep cycle.
  
 Research shows that when we are sleeping, our brain goes through a pattern of sleep comprising   (non-rapid eye movement) and   (rapid-eye movement). During NREM sleep, our mind enters into a slow-wave sleep or deep sleep. This is useful in refreshing mind, helps us to remember facts, places and faces better. A power nap also helps us to do this.
  
 Interestingly, power naps clear the information from the temporary storage areas of our brain and rejuvenate it for new information. So, taking a nap is like pressing the refresh button.
  
 How to power nap at work?
  
 Did you know Albert Einstein, Thomas Edison and Leonardo da Vinci, were all passionate power nappers! Quite obviously, offices don’t have a room labeled as “NAP ROOM”. If couches are available in the office, use them. Find a quiet corner maybe in the lunch room or conference room. A safe place where you can put your head down, without any distraction is an acceptable place to take a power nap. While travelling, stick in some earplugs and imagine yourself in an isolated place and doze off.
 
 (Image Courtesy: Shutterstock)
 
 
