GURUGRAM: A 19-year-old   allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself from the ceiling fan of his hostel room in a private engineering college near Bilaspur on Wednesday night.   was in the   of BTech in   at  . A native of Telangana, he had shifted to the university hostel some five months ago.

 Police said Manideep’s body was found hanging from the ceiling fan by his university mates around 8 pm. When he was taken to a nearby hospital, doctors declared him brought dead. No suicide note has been recovered from his room. His family members told police that Manideep was upset over staying away from his family and had gone into depression. His body was handed over to his family members on Thursday after an autopsy.
 
 Manideep had been staying in room number 22/4 on the second floor of the hostel’s A block. On Wednesday, he neither attended classes in the university nor met any of his classmates. When he did not turn up at the mess in the evening, his friends went to check on him and found his room was locked from inside. They became suspicious when Manideep did not open the door despite repeatedly knocking it, and informed the university authorities.
 
 When varsity officials and the students finally forced open the door, they found Manideep hanging from the ceiling fan, using a rope. Cops were soon informed, who in turn called up his father, Ranga Krishna Rao, in Telangana. The family reached the university campus on Thursday morning.
 
 “A report has been lodged at Bilaspur police station. But his family members told us that Manideep had visited his native place in December and he clearly told them that he felt lonely in the university. Krishna Rao, who runs his own business, said he thought his son would gradually acclimatise to the new environment and continue his studies. But he took his own life. He was the only child of his parents,” ASI Hawa Singh, the investigating officer, said.
 
 When contacted, Dr Deepak Mathur, forensic expert at Civil Hospital, who had conducted the post-mortem on Manideep’s body, told TOI, it was a case of suicide by hanging.
 
 In a statement, the university said, “We are hurt by the untimely death of a valuable member of our university family. We expressed sympathy to the family and friends of the deceased student. We are taking every necessary step into the matter. Officials and faculty members are in touch with the family.”
 
 
