CHANDIGARH: Three expectant mothers on one bed. This is the extent of overcrowding in the antenatal ward of   in Sector 32 (GMCH-32), Chandigarh, revealed a letter written by a nursing staff in the ward on Tuesday. 

 The nursing staff wrote the letter to the head of the hospital’s gynaecology department to highlight overcrowding in the ward and gave the example of the three pregnant women sharing the same bed. The head of gynaecology happens to be GMCH-32 officiating director principal Dr A K  .
 
 In the letter, the nursing staff has written that the movement of patients is restricted as the bed is for a single patient. 
 
 She said overcrowding made it difficult for these pregnant women to even turn or change sides. At present, there are 12 beds in the antenatal ward. At any given time, there are 24 patients admitted in the ward. The complaint letter of the nurse mentioned : “But sometimes the senior resident on duty instructs to take more than 24 patients. It is difficult for full-term pregnant women, especially those with hypertension, to take rest.”
 
 When contacted, Dr Janmeja said, “We cannot refuse patients for admission. Also, since the government has made it mandatory for institutional delivery under the  , a Government of India programme, most patients come here.” He said, “We are working on setting up a mother and child care centre, which can cater to surplus patient intake.”
 
 Sources in the hospital said there is no regulation in the gynaecology department in the absence of a regular head of the department for the past year. “The former director principal, Dr  , also held the additional responsibility of the head of the gynaecology department since the head left for voluntary retirement scheme a year ago. And since then doctors in the department are not accountable to any head,” said a senior faculty at GMCH-32.
 
 In addition to setting up of the mother and child care centre, which will be set up on the premises of GMCH-32, Dr Janmeja said, “We have added 12 more beds in the ward.” 
 
 However, the complaint mentioned that there was no place even for additional trolleys. 
 
