PUNE: A   lost two years of his  , besides Rs 23 lakh to a tout who had taken the amount on the pretext of helping him   to a leading   here in 2014.

 The tout had provided the student a fake identity card of the college in Dhankawadi, apron and also books of MBBS course. 
 
 The student and his father approached the college administration when they did not receive any communication from the institute three weeks after the classes had started. They were shocked to learn that the student’s name was not in the list of admitted candidates. 
 
 When they contacted the tout, he gave them cheques that were subsequently returned by the bank owing to inadequate funds in the account. The tout, too, had stopped responding to their calls. 
 
 The student’s father, Pramod Gundu, an Ayurveda practitioner, lodged a complaint with the Samarth police. “On Tuesday, I saw the man again in the Nana Peth area and immediately alerted the Samarth police,” he told TOI.
 
 A Samarth police team, led by senior inspector  , swung into action and arrested Zahir Pirani (38), a resident of Bhavani Peth. He was booked under IPC sections 420 (cheating) and 406 (criminal breach of trust).
 
 “Investigations revealed that Pirani had duped a medical aspirant from Mumbai to the tune of Rs 20 lakh,” said S D Chavan, assistant inspector of the Samarth police.
 
 A glib talker 
 
 Gundu said in 2014, his son had got the admission for  . Some of his friends, however, introduced him to the suspect, who assured him admission for MBBS course in the institution. “We met Zahir Pirani in the Nana Peth area. Irani, who is a glib talker, impressed us by saying that he knew the college authorities well and can ensure my son’s admission,” he said.
 
 Convinced by his assurance, Gundu gave Rs 23 lakh to him for his son’s admission to the college. “Irani gave me the identity card, books for MBBS course and other things. My son got suspicious when he found that classes had begun and he was still at home,” he said.
 
 He added that when the college authorities confirmed that his son’s name was not in their list, he realised that Pirani had duped him. “I contacted him and asked him to return the money. He agreed and gave me three cheques. But all the three cheques bounced. Pirani gave me three more cheques, which too were returned. I went to the bank and found that there Pirani’s bank account had no balance,” Gundu said.
 
 Since then, Pirani started avoiding him. Whenever he used to call up Pirani, some person at his home would receive the call and say that Pirani had gone to China. “
 
 Two years wasted
 
 Gundu said his son lost two years of his academic career because of Pirani. 
 
 “In 2014, he did not get the admission for MBBS course and, at the same time, lost his Ayurveda seat. He, however, studied hard and secured an MBBS seat in 2016. Now, he is in his first-year MBBS class,” he said.
 
