NEW DELHI: In a rare departure from escalating tensions with India, Pakistan aided the return of Delhi girl  , who was trapped into a forced marriage with a Pakistani man she had met in  . 

 Addressing the media after Uzma’s return, foreign minister   thanked the Pakistani government in an unusual show of warmth in the midst of fierce exchange of fire on the border after the beheading of two Indian soldiers. 
 
 Swaraj said it was significant that the Pakistani government had helped India’s efforts to bring Uzma back despite the tension in bilateral ties. The lawyer who argued the case told the judge that it was a matter of Pakistan’s prestige that Uzma should be allowed to exercise her choice. 
 
 “It’s easy to go to Pakistan, but tough to return. Pakistan is a well of death. Even those who go there after an arranged marriage are crying,” Uzma said as she broke down several times during the press conference called by Swaraj. 
 
 Uzma’s return was made possible through cooperation between the Indian high commission, whose efforts were led by deputy high commissioner  , and Pakistan’s foreign and interior ministries. 
 
 Swaraj described Uzma as India’s daughter and tweeted that she was welcome home. Uzma claimed she was forced to marry at gunpoint. 
 
 "I am proud to be an Indian citizen.   madam would call me every day to say, ‘we are fighting for you, you are our daughter, you are India’s daughter’,” she said, recalling the time spent at the Indian high commission. 
 
 The actions of the Pakistani foreign ministry may also be seen as driven by the civilian government rather than the military as was the case with Indian national Kulbhushan Jadhav who was tried and sentenced to death by a secret military court for allegedly being a spy. 
 
 The Pakistani foreign ministry has staunchly justified Jadhav’s sentencing but its actions in the Uzma case are a contrast. The   high court had earlier agreed to Uzma’s plea that she be allowed to return home and ordered police to escort her to the Wagah border. 
 
 Swaraj thanked the judge and Uzma’s lawyer, saying he had fought her case well. She said the Delhi girl’s return was made possible also because of cooperation extended by Pakistan’s foreign ministry. 
 
 Swaraj said while the counsel treated Uzma as his child, the judge dealt with the case on humanitarian grounds and not through the prism of India-Pakistan relations as some people wanted him to. “I heaved a sigh of relief as soon as she crossed the Wagah border,” Swaraj said. Uzma said she was not the only woman duped into marrying a man from Buner in Pakistan. 
 
 “There may be lots of girls in Buner. Buner people are mostly in Malaysia and they get girls from Malaysia. It is a dangerous area. You hear gunshots every day. Every man has two wives there. I don’t want this to happen to anyone,” she said. Uzma added that she was forced to marry Tahir Ali at gunpoint.
 
