MEERUT: A day after   MP   blamed a particular community for the population explosion in the country, the   sought a report on the incident from the district magistrate on Saturday. This came even as police booked the leader for making “objectionable and communally charged statements against a particular religion”.

 Mahender Das, mahant of Balaji temple and organiser of the event at which   spoke, had been booked on Friday itself as he had allegedly held the function without the administration’s permission.
 
 The administration has now sent a detailed report to the EC along with the video of the event in which Sakshi made the controversial remarks.
 
 The   MP had said at a ‘sant sammelan’ in Meerut on Friday that “those with four wives and 40 children are responsible for the rapid population growth in the country. He said that Hindus are not responsible for the increase in population and that there should be a “strong law” to deal with issues relating to birth control. He then went on to say that money from India’s substantial beef exports was being used to foment terrorism.
 
 The MP had two years ago said at the same venue that “every Hindu woman must produce at least four children in order to protect the Hindu religion”.
 
 Facing severe criticism, Sakshi remained unfazed, saying he did not name any community and that he was “merely expressing concern”.
 
 He said, “I did not make any communal speech. It was a gathering of sants during which I expressed concern about population explosion in the country. My speech has been videographed and nowhere did I name any community.”
 
 Earlier in the day, Meerut district magistrate B Chandrakala told TOI, “We were asked for a report in the matter by the EC. Following this, city superintendent of police and additional district magistrate were deputed to look into it and produce a report within two hours.”
 
 Meerut senior superintendent of police J Ravindra Goud told TOI, “After getting evidence that Sakshi Maharaj had made communal statements, he was booked for violating model code of conduct.”
 
