If I can share my life with my better half, can’t I share some of her workload too?, asks  . The Nashik-based business development manager belongs to a new crop of husbands who believe in sharing household chores. “We don’t have any rules about who’ll do what, but yes, there is a fair division of household chores,” Prafulla adds. This revelation points out the fact that more an more men are willing to help their wives and mothers at home, without letting the age-old custom, of having women wait on their husbands, cloud their minds. 

 
 
  Fortunately, we are moving towards an era where women aren’t possessed by the ‘superwoman complex’. “I have learned it the hard way that I don’t have to do everything by myself,” says Janhavi Lele, an IT professional. “Earlier, I used to make sure that I would take care of every task, in office as well as at home. It took a toll on my health. I used to be always agitated, but then my friend told me the importance of delegating work. Now, my husband happily takes care of things when I am not around,” shares Janhavi.
 
 
 
 
  As both, the wife and the husband, work nowadays, many husbands have no qualms about helping their wives in daily chores. “I don’t like it when men say they ‘help’ their wives sometimes at home. It implies that taking care of household work is a woman’s job, and when she is unable to do so, the man comes to her rescue. Why can’t there be an equal division of work? Husbands should take up some chores as their own responsibility,” insists Shraddha Chaughule, an architect.
 
 
 
 
   , who works as a cameraman with a local news channel, believes that there is nothing wrong in sharing  . “We recently got married and my wife has a demanding job. Sometimes she has to work odd hours, which is the case with me as well. Therefore, I always take the responsibility of some household chores. I can cook too,” he informs. For other like him Mangesh has an advice, “Guys, nothing makes your wife happy than a hot steaming meal that you serve her.”
 
  
 
 
