KOLKATA: A request by   to have the gravel pathway around the two-centuries-old mansion replaced with a driveway paved with concrete has left PWD officials squirming.

 Raj Bhavan sources said governor Keshari Nath Tripathi wanted the gravel path to be done away with as visitors found it difficult to walk on it. The proposal was placed on the table a couple of months ago by   functionaries during a meeting with officials of the state public works department (PWD) that is in charge of the upkeep of one of the most prized landmarks of Kolkata.
 
 Raj Bhavan confirmed the development but refused further comment.
 
 Though a 'request' from the governor's official residence is usually acted upon promptly , PWD officials have managed to delay the work till now, fervently hoping Raj Bhavan does not press further and they can leave the state's most prestigious heritage site unchanged. “We have not taken a decision yet. Had the suggestion come from anywhere else, we would have turned it down as it is an outstanding landmark that is steeped in history. Since the request is from the state's first citizen, the situation is rather delicate,“ a PWD official said. Officially , the department is preparing an estimate.
 
 Heritage architect Partha Ranjan Das, however, sees nothing wrong in the change. He says it's a good idea as walking on it is difficult and at times even treacherous. He recounted an instance when a pebble flew off the tyre of a car driving out of Raj Bhavan and smashed his car's windshield. “In an exigency when every second counts, evacuation will be difficult and painfully slow on the gravel driveway, both on foot and in vehicles,“ he said. Heritage architect Part ha Ranjan Das has an alternative suggestion that will do away with the gravel pathway without a major visual change. “Instead of using stone chips in the concrete mix, use the pebbles. The unfinished terrazzo or brushed mosaic will retain the pebbled drive look while doing away with the inconvenience,“ he said.
 
 The pathway around the Raj-era Governor's House is similar to  , another British-era monument built more than a century later.
 
 Built in 1803 by the East India Co on the initiative of  , it was designed by Captain   on the lines of the Kendleston Hall in Derby shire, the family mans ion of Lord Curzon who later came to occupy it as the Viceroy of India after it became the official residence following the transfer of power to British monarchy in 1858.With the shifting of capital to Delhi in 1911, it became the official residence of Lieutenant Governor of Bengal. Since Independence, it has served as the official residence of the Governor of West Bengal.
 
 Many illustrious residents and their guests at the threestoried mansion with large halls, curved corridors and detached wings have walked the gravel path, from Lord Wellesley to Lord Metcalfe and Lord Curzon, to C Rajagopalachari, Padmaja Naidu, Saiyid Nurul Hasan, A R Kidwai and Gopalkrishna Gandhi post-Independence.
 
