PUNE: Seven years after the   came into play, the number of admissions at the   has crossed 10,000 in  . 

 After the end of eight rounds of admission in Pune and against 15,693 vacant seats in 849 schools, 39,248 applications were received of which 10,986 admissions were confirmed.
 
 Officials said the online admission process, allowing single women to enrol their children and other facilities led to the rise.
 
 Vaishali Pandhare, state coordinator for RTE, said, “This is the highest number of successful admissions since the implementation of RTE Act in the state in 2011. First of all, there is more awareness about RTE among the disadvantaged sections. Secondly, more schools have accepted the process and are taking in students allotted to them.”
 
 Pandhare added that the increase in the number is also due to the easier form-filling method. “The process has gone online. Moreover, this time, we made the form extremely easy. Only basic information was to be filled and no documents had to be uploaded. Instead, documents were to be shown at the time of admission after the allocation of the school to the child,” Pandhare said.
 
 There are 8,303 schools for RTE admissions in the state with 1,20,822 vacant seats which received 1,53,801 applications of which 63,901 have confirmed their admissions.
 
 RTE activist Mukund Kirdat said while the admission process was simplified, there needs to be a corrective measure in the verification of documents. 
 
 “Schools verify the documents due to which even a minor change in the application and the certificate is taken as grounds for rejection. This needs ironing. Secondly, block education officers too need to be better educated to help parents rather than just writing to the school. Mobile vans with internet facilities should move around slum areas where parents can get their applications filled up. This will also improve participation,” he said.
 
 Schools in suburban areas which extract high fees and refuse admission to RTE students, Kirdat added. “The schools don’t even register their names in the list where admission under RTE admission should be given. Stricter checks should be there to make sure that all eligible schools give RTE admissions and action must be taken against all defaulters. Last year, the number of total admissions was around 8,000 that has increased to  ,000. The next year, with better process in place, more admissions will be confirmed,” Kirdat added.
 
 
