THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The LDF was voted to power at a time, when public sentiment against corruption was quite high. 
  , 46% feel there has been an improvement in fight against corruption in one year of LDF government rule. More than men, its Malayali women who believe that LDF government has been strong in its fight against corruption. This feeling is common amongst all age groups.The survey shows that 48% women and 44% men believe that LDF's rule of one year has seen an improvement in fight against corruption. The feeling varies slightly in the rural and urban areas, with 48% in urban areas and 44% in rural areas agreeing to this. While majority in the age group of 36 to 50 (57%) have given a thumbs up to  's fight against corruption, the youth (18 to 25) don't seem to be too convinced as only 38% have endorsed it.

 "Initially, in some of his statements after assuming office of the chief minister, he sounded tough on corruption. However, subsequently in the rift with the CPI and recently in the DGP Senkumar episode he cut a sorry figure. His attempt to justify minister M M Mani showed that nothing had changed. The CPI seems to take a stronger position on corruption effectively than  ," said  , associate professor, Centre for Development Studies.
 
 People also believe that the state has seen infrastructure development and employment opportunities have improved in the last one year of LDF rule. While 32% believed that there is infrastructure development, 30% said that employment scenario has improved.
 
 Experts said that in the last one year, no new infrastructure project has been announced. "All projects that we talk about are the ongoing projects that started much before the present government came to power," said S Gopakumar, president, Better Kochi Response Group. As per the survey, while 34 % women and 31% men believe that there has been infrastructure development in last one year. People in both urban (32%) and rural (33%) agree to this.
 
 
 "This government has not done anything new on the social security front or adopting austerity measures. The transgender policy is gathering dust. It seems like there are strong rifts within the government that are blocking governance," added Kodoth.
 
 "Do people have any count of the crimes against women and children. They don't really know what is happening in society and to that extent this is a short coming of the survey," said activist Rajeena V P.
 
 UNCAGED PARROT' EARNS GOODWILL
 
 TEAM TOI
 Reassuming the office of the director of vigilance and anti-corruption bureau on June 1, 2016, exactly a year after he was removed from the post by the previous UDF government, Jacob   had hinted that the corrupt would face the music.
 
 Though the 'uncaged parrot' was asked to go on leave after repeated adverse remarks from the high court for 'interfering in matters beyond his powers', the overall public impression he made during his tenure as the vigilance chief seems to go in his favour. Fifty-two percent of the respondents of the survey feel that Thomas could tackle corruption in a big way, which is in tune with the survey's finding that the LDF government had its biggest achievement in the fight against corruption.Thomas has more number of respondents from urban Kerala voting in his favour (57%) and those aged between 36-50 years (60%) and 51-64 years (56%), lauding his anti corruption drive.
 
 However, only 41% of voters aged between 18-25 years were in his favour whereas 38% voted in negative.
 
 His bold stand in the bar bribery case against former finance minister K M Mani, which put the previous UDF government in a tight spot, and his instrumental role in the raid against former PWD secretary T O Sooraj have earned him good reputation.
 
