NEW DELHI: Stay alert and don’t sleep over Europe,   is likely to tell its pilots after the recent scares there with incommunicado Indian aircraft. The Maharaja’s flight safety wing has recommended that pilots take controlled rest – sleep one by one on long flights as per rules – before entering or after exiting European airspace.

 AI’s flight safety has recommended that when the pilots are sleepy or intend to take controlled rest, a cabin crew member be present in the cockpit so that the place has two fully conscious people.
 
 “Europe has several small countries and flying over it means frequent frequency change as the plane crosses from one country to another. Problems usually happen due to inadvertent mistakes in changing frequency while flying between different ATCs. In such a situation, it is best that both pilots remain fully aware of the situation. These recommendations have been made to the flight operations department (which is in charge of pilots) and they have to take a final call on the same,” said a source.
 
 Indian aircraft flying from India mostly enter Europe after crossing the Black Sea near Turkey. Flying from Indian cities to the Black Sea is usually two-third of the journey time when going to mainland Europe destinations. “Pilots should take controlled rest while flying between India and the point of entering or exiting Europe,” the official said.
 
 On March 10, Hungary scrambled fighter jets for an Air India Ahmedabad-London flight and before that on February 16 Germany had done so for a Jet Airways’ Mumbai-London flight. On both these flights, one pilot is believed to have been taking controlled rest.
 
 Senior pilots, however, say that airlines must have three pilots on over eight-hour long flights. “Most of these flights are in the window of low circadian (between 2 am and 6 am) when human alertness is at its lowest. Most international airlines follow this rule,” said a senior pilot who has been doing long haul flights for almost three decades now.
 
 “It is humanely impossible for anyone not to feel sleepy at that time (2-6 am). With three pilots on board, they form a rotation pattern where one of them is always resting. The resting pilot will after a while relieve a colleague on controls and allow him/her to rest. This way a level of situational awareness is always maintained in the cockpit, especially during odd hours of operation. But due to pilot shortage and cost factors, airlines don’t do so. The regulator must act and not give in to pressure by airlines, after all human lives are at stake” the senior pilot added.
 
 The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) had on Friday directed that before going into controlled rest, pilot will inform the cabin crew in charge (CCIC). “After the first 20 minutes of controlled rest, the non-resting pilot will establish contact with the CCIC. In case no contact is established, the CCIC will contact the cockpit crew,” the DGCA circular issued Friday said. This process has to be repeated after 20 minutes.
 
