HYDERABAD: How safe are   in Hyderabad? If things are any indication, they definitely are vulnerable. Because while the   ( ) data says that senior citizens in the city are  , police seem to be doing precious little to focus on this.

 This despite the existence of the `Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Act,' enacted by the Centre a decade ago.
 
 As per NCRB data published in November, the city stands in the sixth position in the country for crimes against senior citizens. As per the records, 44.1 % of senior citizens in the city have filed police complaints, while the country average stands at 20%. Delhi has reported the maximum rate of crimes against the elderly with 108.8 percent followed by Madhya Pra desh (60.5%), Chhattisgarh (53.7%),   (51.6%), Andaman & Nicobar Islands (47.2%), Telangana (44.1%) and Maharashtra (41.1%). According to Rule 21 (2) of the Act, a police official of the area shall visit at regular intervals the senior citizens living on their own or at least once in three months.
 
 In addition, police should respond as quickly as possible on receipt of a request for assistance. Another important rule in the Act enjoins police stations to maintain a separate register for complaints received from senior citizens. But this rule is simply ignored.
 
 President of Association for Senior Citizens of Hyderabad P Vyasyamurthy , a septuagenarian from Karkhana, says that the officials hardly have done their duty to uphold the law for protection of senior citizens.
 
 “Whenever there is a complaint from a senior citizen, the police must take it up on priority . But in the city that is not the case. Each time the officials spoke to us, they only told us about the new CCTV camera plan, but there has been nothing remotely close to what the Act says,“ he said.
 
 As per the Act, if a senior citizen complains of harassment or abuse, police officials are supposed to register a case and investigate.
 
 “But city police officials ask to approach court and not to file a police complaint,“ said M Gupta, a 68-year-old resident of Chikoti Gardens.Even the Comptroller Auditor General's report, published early this year, says there are no annual plans for protecting life and property of senior citizens nor have they -state governments -submitted any budget requirements for the purpose. “Rules framed thereunder were deficient in many aspectscomponents. These included lack of efforts in raising the awareness levels of older persons about the provisions of various welfare measures under the Act and Rules,“ the CAG report reads.
 
