MUMBAI: The Navy has blocked real estate development in large swathes of the city’s eastern suburbs with an estimated 300   stalled for months.

 In a major blow to builders, the BMC has stopped giving construction permissions after the Navy objected to building activity around its installations. Ironically, most of these installations are not sensitive naval bases, but housing colonies. The Navy insists on its NOC for any construction within 500 metres from its establishments.
 
 A civic official told TOI the municipal building proposals department stopped processing permissions three months ago after the Navy’s objection. Ghatkopar, Kanjurmarg and Mankhurd are among the locations that have been badly affected.
 
 The Navy’s objections have stunned the construction industry in Mumbai because just last October the defence ministry had relaxed its construction ban around defence lands. The ministry’s circular had brought huge relief to around 3,000 families living in dilapidated buildings around the Army’s central ordnance depots in Kandivli and Malad. The circular reduced the security barrier to just 10 metres for defence establishments and installations at 193 stations across the country, including the Kandivli and Malad depots.
 
 But in December, the Navy wrote to the BMC that the defence ministry’s circular is applicable only to Army installations and not to the Navy assets. Captain Atul Raut, the Navy’s controller of technical services, wrote to the BMC’s executive engineer (building proposal-II) that the circular “may not be misconstrued for naval units or establishments”.
 
 “It is requested that the applications for grant of NOC for construction activity in vicinity of naval establishments or units be continued,” said the letter, which was also marked to the flag officer commanding-in-chief (SSO works), Western Naval Command.
 
 A prominent developer whose   is stalled because of the Navy’s fatwa told TOI, “This will affect the lives of lakhs of people and especially delay redevelopment projects in Colaba, Worli, Ghatkopar, Kanjurmarg, Kandivli, Malad, Borivli and Thane. The Navy must follow the defence ministry’s circular dated October 21, 2016, restricting the radius to 10 metres. The ministry must resolve this issue immediately.”
 
 According to municipal documents, construction projects in Kanjurmarg and Ghatkopar have been severely hit. In Ghatkopar, there are currently 148 ongoing projects in the vicinity of what records describe as the “Ghatkopar Naval Base”. In Kanjurmarg, about 40 ongoing projects have been affected close to the “Kanjurmarg Naval Base”. In the L ward (Kurla) documents show 32 ongoing projects as affected.
 
 The BMC said there are many pockets that belong to the defence forces, but are not shown on the development plan sheet. “A request must be made to the defence authorities to submit the gazette showing notified areas. At present, there is no way to detect or identify defence land,” said a BMC note.
 
 Last month, the municipal commissioner remarked on an internal file on this issue, “In the meantime, the proposals should not be processed till we get the Navy’s NOC.”
 
 
