CHENNAI: P David Jawahar, registrar of the University of Madras (UNOM), presented a white paper on the university’s finances a fortnight ago; but he himself is facing a charge of financial irregularity regarding a transaction to the tune of Rs 5 crore. Though the university senate resolved in March, 2016 to set up a judicial enquiry to investigate the charge, there has been little movement.

 A section of UNOM professors petitioned the Governor-Chancellor two days ago to conduct the enquiry before Jawahar retires in February. The registrar is the official keeper of accounts.
 
 The issue pertains to the diversion of Rs 5 crore out of a conditional grant earmarked by the   (UGC) specifically for projects relating to the   of the university.
 
 The UGC directive clearly mentions that the funds should not be used elsewhere; despite this, Rs 5 crore from the corpus was used to pay building contractors, flouting multiple procedures. The clearance was obtained only from one of the members of the three-member vice-chancellor convenor committee; it was neither placed before the buildings committee nor before the syndicate for approval.
 
 The only member to sign the file was Selvi Apoorva IAS, the then higher education secretary, who is also the ex-officio chair of the VC convenor committee. On March 26, the senate resolved to constitute a judiciary committee to probe the diversion of funds and another committee to investigate the utilisation of funds in the university for the last six years.
 
 Jawahar himself admitted to TOI that the diversion of funds was a violation, but he had only acted on the instructions of his ‘senior officials.’ “But I’ve a clean record, I’ve not apportioned a single penny,” he said.
 
 Jawahar revealed that the university was in dire straits financially and that money was being reapportioned from whatever funds were available to pay salaries.
 
 Apoorva told TOI that it was normal for universities to divert funds from one corpus to another. “Only because such a procedure was possible that the registrar sent an official note to me,” she said.
 
 Professor S S Sundaram, syndicate member and general secretary of the  , said they had tried to meet the current secretary to apprise him of this issue. “But we have not been given appointments despite repeated requests,” he said.
 
 
