GURUGRAM: Huda’s move to allot a 4,000-sqaure-metre plot to   for building its district office at   in Sector 41 has raised a few eyebrows. Villagers in the area alleged prime land was allotted to the party for a rate that is lower than the prevailing price for any residential and commercial land in the area, and demanded a probe into the “dubious” deal.

 Huda had allotted the plot to BJP for Rs 10.20 crore at the rate of Rs 25,500 per square metre in October 2016. Sources said a letter to this effect was issued by estate officer 11, Gurgaon, on October 14, 2016, and it was sent to BJP, 30,  , Rohtak.
 
 The government rate in Sector 41 is Rs 30,000 for a square metre of land for residential area and over Rs 1 lakh for commercial area. Huda, however, claimed that allotment was done as per the prescribed rule on a fixed price.
 
 Clarifying the difference in rate, Huda administrator   said, “The state government has fixed the land rate, which is higher than the rate fixed by the previous government for religious, social, charitable and political parties. The rates for such land are lower than the rates fixed for residential and commercial land. We had invited applications from political parties and received one from BJP. The plot was allotted as per the policy and there are no discrepancies.”
 
 The controversy began in the first week of May when a group of villagers from Silokhra objected to allotment of land to BJP, and even wrote to the prime minister and the chief minister, demanding an immediate action. “We don’t even have a community centre, and Huda is busy allotting land to political parties,” said Atar Singh Sharma of Silokhara, urging authorities to investigate the “dubious” land deal.
 
 BJP media in-charge   said the party was allotted land through an open and transparent process. “Huda had invited applications from political parties. We applied and paid the price fixed for the land,” said Chouhan. TOI had carried a series of stories in January, March, July and September 2016, highlighting the government’s intent to allot land to political parties and make changes in Huda policy.
 
 In January 2016, the state government directed the department of town and country planning to identify plots that can be allotted to parties to set up district headquarters. Later, Huda announced a new policy guideline in March 2016 for allotting a plot of 4,000 square metre to national and state-level parties that have presence in the Assembly.
 
 Huda kept a reserve price of Rs 10.20 crore for the 4,000-sqm plot in Gurgaon and Rewari. In October, it invited applications for 12 plots in eight districts — Gurgaon, Panchkula, Rohtak, Fatehabad, Palwal, Sirsa, Sonipat and Hisar. Huda had identified five plots (4,000 sqm each) — three in sectors 26 and 41 of Gurgaon and two in Rewari — and sought applications from political parties for allotment. Of these, four plots are still up for grabs.
 
 As per the new Huda policy, political parties have to deposit 10% of the amount (Rs 1.2 crore) as earnest money along with their application form for allotment of plots.
 
 
