DUMKA:   on Wednesday took strong exception to the role of the   in blaming the   for the failure of the 20  . 

 Das was addressing a divisional-level workshop of block and district level members of the 20 point programme implementation committee here.
 
 "The 20 point programme implementation committees were introduced by the Union government in 1975 for eradication of poverty but the previous governments, both at the Centre and the state, failed to fulfil the aspirations," Das said. 
 
 He added that it was his government that resolved to make it useful by organising such workshops for the members who belong to a cross-section of political lineages.
 
 Das said that it has become a common practice for the opposition parties to blamer the state government for the 'ineffectiveness' of the body which otherwise was meant for the implementation of different government schemes for the downtrodden.
 
 "Instead of rushing to the media and blaming the state government they (opposition) should bring the drawbacks, if any, to the appropriate forum and help sort them out," Das said. Das added that by virtue of their association with these committees the opposition parties become part of the government irrespective of their political affiliations.
 
  "The Narendra Modi government at the Centre and the state government of   have declared the year 2017-18 as 'welfare of the poor' year and budgetary provisions were made accordingly. The results of a few ambitious schemes will reflecting in the next few months," he said. 
 
 Das, who was accompanied by his cabinet colleagues including Lois Marandi, Raj Paliwal and Nilkanth Singh Munda and secretaries of different government departments, also attended a divisional-level conference of the newly-appointed panchayat volunteers at Birsa Munda outdoor stadium here. A section of panchayat volunteers demanded introduction of honorarium in lieu of their services, but the chief minister rejected the demand.
 
 "Those considering this service to be a job opportunity are free to quit. On the contrary, one should extend their service for the larger interest of the society by ensuring benefits of government schemes to the actual beneficiaries," Das said.
 
 
