THRISSUR: Police, on Tuesday, launched an investigation to decipher the   of the currency seizure case.  , valued at Rs 78.82 lakh, were seized from a car after two gangs clashed at Pudukad on Monday afternoon. 

 Police said that the money, in denominations of Rs 500 and Rs 1000, was meant to be taken abroad and sent back using carriers. 
 
 They added that the gangs were two rival hawala transaction outfits. Police arrested six persons who were part of the first gang and seized two cars.
 
 Intelligence sources the gang was probably trying to use the provision that NRIs could change demonetised currencies till June 30 in Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Bengaluru and Nagpur. Intelligence suspects that the gangs must have international links. Police is of the view that the seized amount could only be the ‘tip of the iceberg’ and the currency exchange networks could have links outside the state as well. 
 
 Police said that one of gangs was transporting the sum to agencies involved in note exchange, while the other was lying in wait for them. The first gang came in a Maruti Swift, while the other used an Alto to ram the car. The second gang attacked them with swords, looted cash and tried to escape in their car. Fearing police presence, they escaped after abandoning their car and cash, said Chalakudy DSP Shahul Hameed.
 
 The arrested persons are Babu from Thiruvananthapuram, Jithin from Cherai in Ernakulam, Saji of Vypeen, Radhakrishnan of Edvanakkad, Jenish of Vadanappilli, and Faizal of Thrithala. They were arrested for fighting in a public place and charges were also field under the provisions of the recently-enacted Specified Bank Note Act. Under the act, possession of demonetised notes is a punishable offence.
 
 Intelligence agencies suspect that a well-organized network was controlling the operation as each NRI can only bring a maximum of Rs 25,000. This would mean a large number of people will have to be deployed as carriers from abroad.
 
 Also, customs officials at Kochi and Karipur airports said that instances of bringing Indian currencies by NRIs had declined drastically of late. “We see one or two such persons a day and that too mostly from the US and Europe,” said an official at Cochin international airport. “NRIs bring now only a couple of notes and there was hardly any report of someone bringing currencies Rs 25,000,” said officials at Kozhikode airport. This could mean currency exchanges rackets are using airports outside the state.
 
 NRIs bringing Indian currencies have to get a certificate from the customs authorities at the airport and approach designated RBI offices with the certificate, passport and Indian bank account pass book.
 
 However police and intelligence agencies are shocked that such rackets are active even now. According to Thrissur Range IG   the case was likely to be handed over to the crime Branch. 
 
