NAGPUR: The fund-starved   (NMC) hasn't thought twice before affording luxury for the city's first citizen. The civic body's general administration department purchased a new 14.53 lakh luxury sedan   for the mayor, Nanda Jichkar. Apparently, the corporation continues to see cars for officials as a necessity and not luxury. 

 Though the NMC got a rebate of almost 1.5 lakh from road tax as the transport department give rebate to mayor's car. The NMC spends almost 10 lakh per month over maintenance of its 130 vehicles, including 28 vehicles allotted to senior officials. 
 
 The move has drawn sharp criticism from people, as NMC has consistently refused to appoint more personnel in various departments to keep a check on the establishment expenditure. But this hasn't stopped it from shopping for a brand-new car.
 
 The NMC purchased the vehicle withmunicipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar's approval.
 
 At present the mayor has a   bought some seven to eight years ago, said a senior official from the NMC's motor department. The department also provides for the fuel for this official car.
 
 Congress corporator   said the post of mayor is to serve the people, he said, but the first citizen is wasting taxpayers money.
 
 He expressed anguish over the BJP-ruled NMC's spending spree at a time when the civic body was reeling severe financial crisis. Gudadhe pointed out that the civic administration recently paid salaries for February to its staff which was supposed to be disbursed in March. The administration is lagging behind by almost a month to pay salaries, he said.
 
  "Besides this, the financial crunch of the NMC has forced many projects to linger includingcement road works," he claimed. 
 
  It was not the first time that NMC has gone overboard with spending taxpayers' money. A couple of years ago, the fire department was forced to purchase Tata Manza sedan for the then deputy municipal commissioner  . Generally, the general administration department spends money for purchase of vehicles, but in Siddiqui's case, the fire department spent around 7 lakh to buy the car. 
 
