MUMBAI: A special Protection of   ( ) Act court on Friday convicted and sentenced a 47-year-old man to life imprisonment for raping his 16-year-old daughter. Additionally, an auto rickshaw driver (32), who took the child in after she left home due to the assault, was sentenced to 20 years in jail for repeatedly raping her, resulting in the teen getting pregnant.

 The minor told the court that she left home in 2013 due to her father's repeated  . She said he used to touch her inappropriately and make lewd gestures when her mother was not at home.
 
 The minor said she complained to her mother, but she did not believe her. It was only later when she swore on a religious text that her mother confronted her father. However, he denied the allegations.
 
 The minor further stated that on one occasion in October 2013 when she had a toothache her father forcibly made her have tobacco and when she felt giddy, he raped her. The teenager said the ordeal continued over the next few months. She was scared to tell her mother as her father had threatened her.
 
 On October 25, 2013, she left home and slept in an auto rickshaw. Around 8am the following day, when the auto rickshaw driver saw her, he expressed concern about her situation and took her home. The victim said the accused lived with his mother, his sister and three children. She said that his wife had left him. He, too, then began to rape her.
 
 He refused to let her step out of the house. In May 2014, the victim contacted her mother and informed her about being pregnant. Her mother asked her to return home, but the accused physically assaulted her and forbid her from leaving. When her mother called again, he finally took the girl to her house. She then revealed the sexual assault she had suffered at the hands of her father and the auto driver. Her mother consulted her brother and lodged a police complaint and both the accused were arrested.
 
 The teenager, her mother, doctors and cops were among the 11 witnesses to depose in court. The mother told the court that after the case was registered, the minor expressed a desire to have an abortion and the procedure was subsequently carried out. She added that after the girl had gone missing, they tried to look for her and had even published an ad in newspapers.
 
