NEW DELHI: Will the government do away with the VIP red beacon culture entirely or prune it drastically? The proposal to restrict such number of dignitaries entitled for red beacons on their vehicles is back on the government’s table. 

 The Prime Minister’s Office ( ) has called a meeting this week on this politically sensitive issue.
 
 Sources said the proposal to do away with red beacons for vehicles attached to dignitaries is very much on the agenda.
 
 The road transport ministry had forwarded three options to PMO after holding consultations with senior   ministers and one of the options is to end the use of red beacons.
 
 Another option is to reduce the list to only five constitutional authorities — the President, Vice-President, PM, Chief Justice of the Supreme Court and Speaker of  .
 
 TOI has learnt that the proposal has been pending for more than one-and-a-half years.
 
 During this period, PMO had referred the issue to cabinet secretary and it was discussed threadbare. States were asked to submit the details of persons entitled to have red beacon on their vehicles.
 
 The PMO holding the meeting this week gains importance in the light of two newly formed state governments taking steps to either end or restrict such VIP culture. 
 
 While Amarinder Singh government in Punjab has done away with red beacons,   government in   has stopped the use of hooters.
 
 The   government in Delhi was the first one to withdraw the use of red beacons by ministers.
 
 “This decision has to be taken at the highest level. In all probability enforcement agencies will be allowed to have them considering their nature of work,” said a government source. 
 
 As per norms, red beacons are allowed on vehicles of 32 Cabinet ministers and a few others, who are in the rank and status of a Cabinet minister. The number of such dignitaries is much more instates.
 
 
 
 The use of beacons should be restricted to vehicles used for emergency purposes –ambulances, fire engines or police vehicles in specific situations – or for a select few high constitutional offices on grounds of security. 
 
 This is the global norm and there is no reason why India should be any different. A flashing beacon ought not to be merely a symbol of authority. 
 
 Authority may be feared but never respected when used arbitrarily. Indeed, beacons flashing on top of vehicles for no apparent reason than as a status symbol only evoke anger from common people. Such anger and resentment erodes the authority of those who use them needlessly.
 
