GURUGRAM: Suspecting she was cheating on him,, a 31-year-old man allegedly   his wife by stabbing her more than 25 times in their rented accommodation in Kadipur village on Thursday. Chandan Mishra, who fled after committing the crime, was arrested on Friday morning and the   weapon has also been recovered, police said.

 The woman has been identified as 28-year-old Gunjan, who was from Bihar’s   district. Chandan, also from Bihar, and Gunjan got married in 2013. While Chandan is a vegetable vendor, his wife worked as a domestic help. The couple had been living in Kadipur for the past one year.
 
 Police said Gunjan had a criminal past. She had spent some time in jail in two separate cases of murder and kidnapping of two minor children in Delhi, and was currently out on bail.
 
 Gunjan’s body was discovered by her landlord,  , who had gone to meet the couple in their room around 12 pm on Thursday. When he knocked their door, Chandan opened it but he soon ran away. Kuldeep called the cops after finding Gunjan lying in a pool of blood. 
 
 A police team from Sector 10 A police station soon reached the spot and rushed the woman to a nearby hospital where doctors declared her brought dead. On the complaint of the house owner, an FIR has been registered against Chandan under Section 302 (murder) of IPC at the police station.
 
 During preliminary interrogation, cops said, Chandan has confessed to his crime. The accused told police that he had married Gunjan despite knowing her criminal past, but she often used to disappear from the house and would return only after four to five days. An argument broke out on Thursday and Chandan stabbed her to death.
 
 “The accused suspected his wife of having an affair and stabbed his wife more than 25 times. He stabbed at least 10 times on the victim’s back, three times on her chest and stomach, and also on her right hip. We have kept the body in a mortuary and waiting for her family members to arrive from Bihar,” said Jai Prakash, the investigating officer.
 
 Cops said they would produce the accused in a city court on Saturday. “We will seek his police custody,” said Sumit Kuhar, DCP (crime), Gurgaon.
 
 
