KOLKATA: This year, Durga Puja is likely to be rain-soaked and the weather could play spoilsport on at least two days during the festival, the Met office predicted on Wednesday. 

 While the showers may not last very long, they may strike in multiple spells throughout the day and disrupt pandal-hopping. The weathermen, however, could not yet specify which two days are likely to be affected. A cyclonic circulation that is likely to form in the north Bay of Bengal around September 25-26 could be the trigger. On Wednesday, Kolkata received 11.9mm rain till 5.30pm.
 
 A wet Puja is likely to be preceded by a relatively dry period. With the low pressure, which has been triggering rain in Gangetic Bengal since Monday, having receded to Jharkhand, it will have minimal impact on the weather now, said GK Das, director, Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC).
 
 “The showers will now lessen. Though sporadic, light spells are likely on Thursday. From September 22 to 24, we expect a relatively dry period with very little rain. But the weather could change during the Puja period,” said Das.
 
 It is a cyclonic circulation that could break Puja revellers’ hearts. Likely to form and strengthen early next week, it could generate multiple spells of rain. “It is still too early to predict the intensity of the showers, but they could last significantly long to disrupt pandal-hopping. On Panchami and Shashthi, however, the rain is going to be light and the spells could be shorter. But once the circulation gathers steam, this could change,” explained Das.
 
 The Puja could still be relatively dry if the circulation doesn’t form or moves away quickly. “Cyclonic circulations and subsequent low pressures generate rain during this period. This month has been dry due to the absence of strong circulations. Monsoon clouds have been triggering sporadic rain. But if the circulation forms next week, we are headed for a significantly wet period, which is unfortunately coinciding with the Puja,” said Das.
 
 The India-Australia match on Thursday, how-ever, is unlikely to be affe-cted. With the low pressure losing steam, sporadic morning and afternoon showers are on the cards. But they are unlikely to continue in the evening, allowing the match to go ahead without much disruption.
 
 This month has been exceptionally dry so far with very few heavy spells. Over the last week, the average humidity had been around 70% and often touched 90%. The principal trigger behind the choking weather is the absence of rain, said a Met official. “Once showers stop, the mercury shoots up and the humidity makes it uncomfortable. It is the temperature that is making the difference here, not the humidity, which remains high even when it rains,” explained the official.
 
 
