LUCKNOW: Are the lakhs of beneficiaries of the  , slowly but surely turning into message carriers of the Bharatiya Janata Party to counter UP chief minister Akhilesh Yadav’s Samawadi Pension Scheme?

 To woo women, mainly from vulnerable and impoverished sections, chief minister Akhilesh Yadav had launched   Scheme to give Rs 500 a month to female member of households among weaker sections of the society. He claimed that more than 55 lakh women had received pension under the scheme.
 
 To counter Akhilesh’s Samajwadi Pension Scheme and to make access to “half the population”, Union petroleum ministry also started Ujjwala scheme last year. An extensive tour of parts of eastern UP which is going to polls in the two final phases on March 4 and March 8 reveals that the   has made inroads in the hinterlands through the Ujjwala Yojana. Prime Minister Narendra  , along with Union petroleum minister of state with independent charge Dharmendra Pradhan had launched the national scheme from Ballia on May 1, last year.
 
 “We chose to start this scheme from eastern UP because in a state with only around 56% availability of LPG connections, eastern UP was further behind with only 52%,” Pradhan had said at the time of the launch of the scheme for which the prime minister has campaigned to make lakhs of villages smoke-free. Only a female member of the family can enjoy the benefit of the scheme.
 
 “In the last 11 months, four oil companies have distributed 53.61 lakh LPG cylinders free to women, mainly in rural parts of the state,” a senior functionary of the petroleum ministry told the TOI, adding that the national average of LPG availability went up to 72% in less than a year’s time.
 
 When TOI visited villages in Deoria, Kushinagar, Gorakhpur and Basti, Faizabad, majority of the women were grateful for free LPG connection. “We are very thankful to mantri ji (Dharmendra Pradhan ),” was the general refrain as women who said they had never dreamr of such facility in their life while using fuel wood collected from nearby forests. On being asked how did got the LPG connection, they said oil companies had organised camps for registration after verification of personal details.
 
 This could be the game changer as a good number of women have supported her, claimed Swati Singh, BJP Mahila Morcha’s state chief and also a candidate from the Sarojininagar assembly constituency in Lucknow, adding that during the campaign she met a number of women in rural areas who were still dependent on fuel wood but a large number of other families got connections. She said she had not met any of the lakhs woman who have benefited from the Samajwadi Pension Scheme of Rs 500 per month as claimed by chief minister Akhilesh Yadav, though she had met hundreds of women who received free LPG cylinders. 
 
 BJP leaders admit that compared to Ujjawala, no other scheme of the NDA government from Namami Gange to Start UP had reached the rural populace. 
 
 Dharmendra Pradhan could not campaign in Uttar Pradesh as he was busy in Uttarakhand assembly elections, being in charge of the state and after that he turned focus to panchayat elections in Orissa, where that party gained by more than 300% in rural elections. Pradhan may not have visited UP for campaign, but his footprints are visible wherever Ujjwala scheme has burned the homefire.
 
 
