NAGPUR: A three-day   commenced on Tuesday at   involving women recruits from city-based   (RPTS).

 Around 100 trainees were exposed to various sorts of sabotage and subversive activities, which are generally adopted by anti-national strengths to target railways.
 
 In the backdrop of repeated targeting of railways by terror outfits and their sleeper cells to corner the government, the state police took the decision to train the future crop of police cadets. A training programme, labelled as ‘railway security model’, has been launched across the state by the police department following a meeting between state director general of police Satish Mathur and additional DG (railways) D Kanakratnam.
 
 The aim of the programme is to groom the cadets on various issues of  , which is a mode of transport for lakhs of people and also considered one of the most vulnerable targets.
 
 The training module, to be conducted jointly by the   (GRP) and Railway protection force ( ), took off with women cadet cops undergoing a combination of theoretical and practical classes. The cadets would be exposed to the functioning of anti-sabotage and bomb detection and disposal squad of the railway security forces.
 
 Senior GRP inspector Abhay Panhekar said the cadets were imparted knowledge on various enactments, rules and regulations, at the Ajni headquarters to introduce the trainees to the subject.
 
 “After the theories, the cadets were taken to the Nagpur railway station where they practically learnt various strategies adopted by anti-national strengths to create situations leading to major mishaps. The common traits of terrorist activities to target the railways were shown to the cadets which included various sabotage on the tracks and so on,” Panhekar said.
 
 GRP SP, Sahebrao Patil and additional SP Dattaram Rathod too were present to guide the cadets and supervise their training.
 
 On the first day, the cadets visited the RPF thana to know their activities where they were also imparted preliminary information regarding modalities of the crucial CCTV surveillance.
 
 During the training, the cadets were informed about the safety and security of railways and its properties, apart from the lives of lakhs of commuters. “The cadets would be also taken to Wardha and other places for training,” Panhekar added.
 
