LUCKNOW: In its preliminary report submitted to divisional commissioner, Lucknow, the   ( ) has accepted that the   in its various hospitals, including the Trauma Centre, is not fully functional due to paucity of funds.

 The university has also accepted that it has no fire tender of its own on the campus. The report states that there are four exits, a ramp and two staircases in the trauma centre. However, the four-story building has only one fire exist on each floor except for the first floor.
 
 In the point-wise details that the commissioner had sought, the university has accepted that fire extinguishers, pump house and water tank, retaining valve and work for extension of pipeline to departments is still incomplete in most of departments except Shatbadi Hospital (phase I and II), new OPD block, new dental building, cardio-thoracic and vascular surgery (CTVS) department and trauma centre.
 
 As per the report, KGMU claims a budget of Rs 10.62 crore was approved by the state government in December 2012 for installation of fire hydrants and fire alarm systems in departments other than the ones mentioned above. The executing agency laid water pipelines and cables for fire hydrants, smoke detectors and fire alarms. However, the remaining work was not completed due to lack of funds. The university has sent a proposal of Rs 13.20 crore for remaining work, which is yet to be approved. 
 
 In the report, the university has also claimed that the fire alarm   and fire hydrants in the trauma centre were installed. However, in the fire incident that took place on Saturday, neither did the fire alarm function nor was the smoke detected by the machinery. The water sprinklers also were not working on the day. 
 
 Further, as per its own record, in the absence of a fire tender at the university, KGMU had to wait for 20 minutes for the fire department to get to it from Hazratganj. By then, the fire and smoke had spread to other parts of the building, apart from the second floor where it had started. 
 
 
 
