CHANDIGARH: Upset over the non-compliance of its orders by various departments of the  , which is leading to unnecessary litigation, the   has directed the state's chief secretary (CS) to appear in person before the court. While summoning the head of the state bureaucracy, the court also asked him to come with explanation as to what steps he would take to curtail the unnecessary litigation.

 "Let chief secretary of Haryana be present in the court on the next date of hearing with the proposal as to how the unnecessary litigation is curtailed and all the heads of departments be asked to comply with the orders within the stipulated time just to save the time of the court and to save the cost amount," observed Justice   in her order released on Friday.
 
 The chief secretary has to appear before the court on April 19.
 
 In her detailed order, Justice Chaudhary also observed that in a number of cases the orders passed by the high court are not being complied within the stipulated period and many times orally, it has been brought to the notice of the concerned state counsel as well as to advocate general.
 
 "In some cases, even the orders passed by this court have not been complied with in spite of expiry of period of three to four years. Every day many contempt petitions are filed for non-compliance of the orders. Thereafter, contempt petitions are proceeded like regular matters and dates are sought by the state for filing reply," Justice Chaudhary observed. These orders from the HC has come in the wake of a contempt of court proceeding initiated against the officials of   (Huda) and department of town and country planning for not taking any decision on the representation filed by farmers of Ghata village in Gurugram district against alleged fraudulent acquisition of their land.
 
 Seeking an independent probe into the alleged fraud by state authorities in connivance with the builders in acquiring their land, the villagers had filed a petition before the HC in 2014. Acting on their plea, the HC on November 11, 2014, had asked the Haryana government to decide the representation filed by petitioners expeditiously, preferably, within a period of three months. However, despite these orders, the state had not taken any decision on their plea after which they had to file a contempt petition.
 
