PATNA: Residents can expect some respite from surging temperature as the local met office has issued forecast for thundershowers at isolated places in Bihar on Tuesday and warning for thunder squall along with hail on Wednesday and Thursday.

 The warning for thunder squall with hail is primarily for north and southeast Bihar. Patna, on the other hand, is likely to witness windy conditions along with very light showers on Wednesday and Thursday. 
 
 The all-India weather bulletin issued from the headquarters of   ( ) on Monday also predicted isolated showers in Bihar on Tuesday and scattered showers on Wednesday and Thursday.
 
 Meteorologists have attributed the expected turbulent weather to Nor’wester, also known as kal baisakhi in local parlance.   is a weather system that brings sudden thunderstorm activities in summer season, which do not last more than an hour or two.
 
 Weathermen claimed that Nor’wester activities have started early this year. In fact, this would be the second Nor’wester hitting Bihar and neighbouring states in eastern India in March. “Its impact would be more in northern and southeastern parts of Bihar. A strong Nor’wester activity is expected to be witnessed again in Patna on April 4,” said Anand Shanker, meteorologist at Patna Meteorological Centre.
 
 As per meteorology, excess heating of the land during summer season results in convective currents that in turn help in formation of low cumulonimbus clouds, bringing rain accompanied by gusty winds, brewing a typical Nor'wester.
 
 “Convective clouds started entering Bihar from Nepal from Monday. Besides, easterly winds blowing at the surface level is bringing moisture from  , while dry and hot south-westerly winds are blowing in upper layer of atmosphere. All these factors are leading to ideal conditions for Nor’wester activities leading to thunder squall along with hail over the next three days,” said Shanker.
 
 Nor’wester apart, the mercury column is witnessing gradual northward movement from the past few days. Weathermen are expecting the maximum temperature to reach 39 degrees C over the next three to four days.
 
 Weathermen have claimed that the mercury column is expected to witness northward movement hereafter. “We are expecting maximum temperature in Patna to surge to 39 degrees C by the end of this month and surge further under the influence of westerly winds,” said Shanker.
 
 IMD’s long range forecast based on climate models has suggested that the actual temperature in April would be 1.25 degrees C above the respective normal across the country.
 
 
