BAREILLY/BIJNOR: An impressive turnout of over 65% was recorded in 67 assembly constituencies across 11 districts of western Uttar Pradesh in the second phase of the crucial state elections on Wednesday. 

 “Polling was held peacefully amid tight security,” Uttar Pradesh chief electoral officer T Venkatesh said. The districts where polling was held in the second phase included Bijnor, Saharanpur, Moradabad, Sambhal, Rampur, Bareilly, Amroha, Pilibhit, Lakhimpur Kheri, Shahjahanpur and Badaun. 
 
 Other than reports of minor clashes in Bijnor and Badaun, polling was mostly peaceful. Seven persons were injuredin a clash between SP and BSP workers in Bijnor, while there was a scuffle reported between SP and BJP workers at a booth in Badaun. 
 
 A total of 2.28 crore voters, including over 1.04 crore women, were eligible to cast their ballots in 14,771 polling centres and 23,693 polling stations in the second of the seven-phase polling. Meanwhile, in Delhi, the   applauded all the segments, including voters, political parties, media and its staff, for leading a free, fair and inclusive second phase of UP elections. “We would like to compliment all the voters of this phase because they showed exemplary commitment for the maintenance of public peace, law and order,” said deputy election commissioner   Dev while addressing a press conference in the national capital. 
 
 The poll panel expressed hope to conduct the upcoming phases in the same peaceful and fair manner. A total of 721 candidates were in fray, including 82 women candidates and a transgender from Lakhimpur Kheri district. Some of the important leaders in poll fray here include senior SP leader   (Rampur), Congress’s Jitin Prasada (Tilhar in Shahjahanpur), BJP legislature party leader   Khanna from Shahjahanpur city and state minister Mehboob Ali from Amroha. The voter turnout in the first phase was recorded at 64.2% — an increase of nearly 3% from the first phase turnout in the 2012 state assembly elections.
 
