NEW DELHI: Two-time   champions   have in the past been guilty of focussing more on the who's who of the game rather than investing on fresh and local recruits. This time however, they have done exactly that, having purchased quite a few domestic talents on the back of an impactful domestic season. That being said, the franchise ensured they did not overlook few of their past servants.
 
 
 
  
 Karn Sharma grabbed eyeballs in 2014 when he fetched Rs 3.75 crore from   to become the highest paid uncapped Indian. He justified the tag by taking 15 wickets and even went on to represent India in all three formats the same year. But a string of average performances once again put him in obscurity.
  
 Sharma has shown negligible growth in his bowling in the last two years. But the moment his name was announced during the auction, Mumbai Indians and Gujarat Lions went on a splashing spree before the two-time champions finally secured him for 3.2 crore, making him the costliest Indian buy this year. His bowling has shown negligible growth in the previous two years but Sharma's ability to operate like an old-fashioned legspinner might just give Mumbai Indians that little edge in the spin department. He might be the perfect foil to   and a handy option with the bat down in the order.
  
 
  
 Johnson is back for the side with which he had reasonable amount of success in 2013. In 17 matches for Mumbai that year, Johnson snared 24 wickets in 17 matches at an average of 19.12. Those are wonderful figures by IPL standard. That year,   predicted Johnson to be the 'difference' during the 2013 Ashes - and we all know how that went. 
  
 Even after retiring from international cricket, Johnson is actively involved in the Big Bash League and is coming off figures of 3/3, 2/15 and 3/33. In fact, his 3/3 against Hobart Hurricanes got Perth Scorchers into the final, which they went on to win. Also, Mumbai were at their best when they had Johnson and Lasith Malinga bowling in tandem. A fired up Johnson steaming in from one end will give breathing space to Malinga; though the same can't be said about the batsmen.
  
 
  
 Gowtham is a 28-year-old offspinning allrounder who this domestic season made it back to Karnataka's Ranji Trophy squad and claimed 27 wickets in eight matches, including a career-best 7/108. His success helped Karnataka into the quarter-finals, where they were hammered by Tamil Nadu, and earned Gowtham a spot in the India A squad that played Australia in Mumbai last week. Between the Ranji Trophy and that practice match against Australia, Gowtham took five wickets in five matches for Karnataka in the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy. In 20 career T20 games, he has taken 16 wickets at an average of 26.75 and economy of 7.01, and has best figures of 4/19. Even in the Karnataka Premier League, Gowtham pocketed 11 wickets from eight T20s at an economy rate of 5.58.
  
 Gowtham will get a chance to play alongside Harbhajan Singh, the man he has looked up to. In a recent interview, Gowtham said how Harbhajan's inputs have played a role in his action for stiffer, tighter bowling.
  
 
  
 Even though he and Malinga will miss the first few matches for Mumbai, Gunaratne will be a tempting option for Rohit Sharma to go with. A batting allrounder, Gunaratne is a hard-hitting consistent batsman who averages 42 in T20s with two half-centuries in seven matches. Gunaratne hit two match-winning fifties in the recent T20I series in Australia, and had struck a maiden ODI hundred in South Africa earlier in February. Besides, Gunaratne bowls handy medium pace which gives Mumbai Indians an option in the bowling department to sneak in a couple of overs if needed.
  
 
  
 Like Johnson, Tiwary also comes back to Mumbai where he had an impressive run during the franchise's road to the IPL final in 2010. Tiwary scored 419 runs from 16 games but since wasn't consistent enough to keep his place in the side. He has been made to hop from one franchise to another. Signed by Royal Challengers Bangalore in 2011, he spent three years before moving to   for two years. Last season, he was with Rising Pune Supergiants, scoring 170 in 10 games.
  
 It is widely regarded that Tiwary hasn't just done justice to his talent - his inconsistency being the biggest reason. However, the past domestic season has been quite fruitful for the 28-year-old. He is coming off a wonderful campaign in the Vijay Hazare Trophy for Jharkhand where he reeled off two centuries - against Services and Hyderabad.
  
 
  
 After six wicketkeeper-batsmen went unsold, 21-year-old Pooran was snapped up by Mumbai Indians. He shot to fame because of his exploits during the Caribbean Premier League where a 24-ball 54 for Trinidad & Tobago Steel saw him pull off a sensational win against Guyana Warriors. In fact, even Sunil Narine wasn't spare a hammering. Pooran seems to be a nice little addition to the already meaty stock of Mumbai's wicketkeeper-batsmen that included Parthiv Patel and Jos Buttler.
  
 
  
 Delhi's 25-year-old hejroliya is raw and inexperienced. But he is coming off some really good figures in the Vijay Hazare Trophy that includes figures of 5/22 against Uttar Pradesh. As a matter of fact, in seven List A matches, Khejroliya has picked up 17 wickets which is really impressive to say the least.
 
 
