NAGPUR: Alleging connivance between failed bidders and   (NMC), water tanker owners have moved the Nagpur bench of   over breach of   by the civic body. 

 The civic body had invited bids for hiring 207 vehicles and another 25 as stand by for distribution of water across the city. Total 394 had applied for the contract. A merit list was prepared and work orders were issued to the eligible persons. However, the NMC also started allotting orders to around 125 water tanker owners who didn't qualify for the work. 
 
 A bench comprising Justice   and Justice Swapna Joshi issued notice to the NMC commissioner and its executive engineer giving them time till March 1 to respond.
 
 The bench pointed out that if the shortlisted bidders are ready and willing to provide more tankers, then preference shall be given to them.
 
 The petitioners submitted that the “illegal” inclusion of more vehicles is likely to severely impact the financial viability of each tanker owner as it will result in less work or trips per day. They added that there is also restriction on private work being undertaken simultaneously. 
 
 SS Voditel appeared for petitioners   and nine others. 
 
 On June 23, 2016, the NMC had issued e-tender notice for hiring 207 tankers and 25 additional water tankers. The merit list was prepared after tenders were opened on July 15, and 394 persons were shortlisted on the basis of year of manufacture of vehicle and other terms and conditions.
 
 On November 11, work orders were issued to the 207 tanker owners selected as per the merit list and work commenced.
 
 In their submission, the petitioner alleged that “arbitrarily and in colourable exercise of authority, the respondents also started allotting work to tanker owners placed serial no 233 to 358 which action is illegal and mala fide.”
 
 The petitioners then filed objection to the move and requested discontinuing their work. After the NMC failed to respond despite repeated reminders, the petitioners moved the court.
 
 They requested the HC to examine the necessity for inclusion of vehicle owners from serial no. 233 to 358 for allotment of work in breach of the e-tender notice. The petitioners also requested to examine whether the respondents have acted arbitrarily and in breach of Article 12 and 21 of the Constitution by including these owners and, whether the respondents are duty bound to justify with adequate material on record as to how the requirement of vehicles as on June 23, 2016, was 207 + 25 additional and suddenly jumped to 358.
 
