NEW DELHI | MUMBAI: This placement season has already turned out to be the best for the Indian Institutes of Technology that are less than a decade old, even as the older, more established IITs saw fewer eye-popping job offers for their students. As the first phase of the placements has ended and the second is set to begin soon, IITs in Hyderabad, Indore, Ropar, Mandi,   and Patna — all established in 2008 and 2009 — reported an increase in top as well as average salaries that recruiters offered to their students. Indore, Ropar and Mandi received also their first international offers this year, with salaries touching as high as Rs40 lakh a year.
 
  For these IITs, the brand is gradually gaining traction among recruiters even as they are setting the ground for companies to visit the campuses. Ropar and Mandi invited more companies across sectors this year. This seems to have worked well, resulting in a higher number of offers this year.
  
  “The strategy has been to invite more and more companies from different backgrounds. The number of companies visiting the campus has increased,” said Samar Agnihotri, faculty adviser-career and placement cell at IIT Mandi.
  
  
 
  
  “The placement looks better this year compared to last year,” said Ravi Mohan Prasad, head of training and placement cell at  . The average salary has risen, too, by as much as 30%. “The average salary last year was Rs11 lakh, whereas this year the average salary in the first phase of placements is about Rs14.5 lakh,” said  , spokesperson for IIT Indore.
  
  One of the big recruiters at IITs, Amazon, visited 17 IITs including the young ones in Indore, Jodhpur and Bhubaneswar this year. “Our focus is to build a strong ecosystem where we continue to strengthen our relationship with old IITs and build relationships with the new ones,” said Raj Raghavan,   HR director for Asia-Pacific.
  
  Unlike the older IITs that have seen a slump in the number of overall international offers, the new ones, which hardly got any foreign offers in the past, scored on this front as well this time. The majority of these global offers are from Japanese recruiters. At IIT Hyderabad, there were 16 offers for international positions — all from Japanese firms — compared with six last year.
  
  At IIT Mandi, four students got international offers from a Japanese company. The highest (international) salary this year there was Rs40 lakh. The average salary has increased to Rs13.5 lakh from Rs12 lakh last year. IIT Patna received this year’s first international offer of 6 million Japanese yen — about Rs35 lakh — from Works Applications. “This year has been great so far as B-Tech offers are already 106 in the phase I compared to a total of 118 offers received last year in phase I and II,” said   of the training and placement cell at the institute.
  
  The highest salary at IIT Indore increased from Rs28 lakh last year to more than Rs30 lakh, offered to four students by DE-Shaw and Arcesium. The highest international salary at Hyderabad increased by Rs4 lakh to Rs38 lakh. Pre-placement offers at IIT Hyderabad increased from 15 last year to more than 25 this year. At  , 20 new companies visited the campus this placement season. 
