THANE: Two ground-plus four storied buildings, that were declared   by the   Municipal Corporation some days back, came crashing down on Wednesday morning. Nobody was injured in the crash, as the structures were evacuated a few months ago. The buildings were located in Maharashtra Nagar Complex behind Kashinath Ghanekar theatre.

 The Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (MHADA) buildings no.4 and 5 from Maharashtra Nagar Complex were in shambles due to its dilapidated condition.
 
 “The two structures were adjoining each other   at the same time. As the building was evacuated there were no casualties or no injuries. On Wednesday, a slab of a room’s building no.17, Saidarpan society collapsed, so the resident there had complained about it. After hearing the complaint the municipal corporation’s executive engineer, anti-encroachment officers reached the spot to do inspection of the structure. While they were inspecting, the two buildings opposite the structure i.e building no. 4 and 5 suddenly collapsed and immediately the RDMC officials were asked to rush to the spot,” said Santosh Kadam, chief of Regional Disaster Management Cell.
 
 The officials claimed that it was an old structure and was even declared as dangerous.
 
 “Few years back we had declared all the 18 buildings of Maharashtra Nagar as dilapidated, following a survey done by the engineers. The buildings were around 30 to 40 years old and after the residents became aware of the structure’s dangerous condition, many evacuated their homes. The complex had even gone to a builder for redevelopment, but few families still stayed in some buildings,” said Ashok Burpulle, in-charge of anti encroachment department of TMC.
 
 The families which were still staying in the structures were asked to vacate immediately after the incident occurred on Wednesday.
 
 “There were around 15 families, seven owners and others who were staying as tenants in some of these buildings. They were asked to leave and we had to evacuate the place, so that no life was in danger. While some families shifted to their relatives place others went to rental houses which were provided by the builder. The main gate of the complex and the structures were sealed by Wednesday,” added Kadam.
 
 
