PATNA: Demolition of western flank of   is unlikely to commence by the end of this month even though Prime Minister   is slated to commission the rehabilitation work of the 34-year old bridge on January 15.

 Two alternative traffic arrangements for diverting vehicular movement from the dilapidated bridge – two pontoon bridges underneath Setu and Ara-Chhapra bridge (around 60km west of Gandhi Setu) – are unlikely to be ready before the end of this month. One pontoon bridge underneath the Setu is expected to be ready by the end of this month, while a bridge over the Ganga between Ara and Chhapra is likely to be opened for vehicular traffic in June.
 
 The state government had on Monday rejected a proposal from Union ministry of road, transport and highways (MoRTH) to commence dismantling of the western flank of the bridge from January 15.
 
 “The government is saying Gandhi Setu is a lifeline bridge, connecting north and south Bihar over the Ganga and it would be extremely difficult to regulate traffic unless alternative arrangements are made. We have been told to start the demolition work only after the alternative arrangements are made,” said a senior official in MoRTH, Bihar region.
 
 As far as alternative traffic arrangement is concerned,   (BRPNNL) is expected to construct a pontoon bridge underneath Gandhi Setu by the end of this month. The length of the pontoon bridge is 1.5km and it would start from Alamganj police station on Patna side and Gandhi Setu police station on Hajipur side. “One- way traffic movement would be allowed on the pontoon bridge. Another pontoon bridge is expected to be ready after the completion of the first one,” said P K Das, Patna traffic SP.
 
 Pontoon bridge apart, the four-km long Ara-Chhapra bridge, which was initially scheduled to be completed by December 2015, is expected to be ready by mid June. The foundation stone for Ara-Chhapra bridge was laid in July 2010 by CM  . “Deputy CM Tejashwi Prasad Yadav said in the meeting held on Monday that Ara-Chhapra bridge is targeted to be opened on June 11, which would take significant vehicular load of Gandhi Setu,” said a senior official in road construction department. 
 
 
