Bengalureans — both old and young — are warming up to paint-and-wine parties. The  , which are popular abroad and are also becoming a common occurrence in the city, help you discover the Michalangelo in you in little over three hours, and make friends while at it!
BrushPlay, one of the pioneers of sip-and-paint parties in Bengaluru, has been hosting these events since July last year, but say the concept has just caught up. “Till December, we were only hosting the events once a month. But since January, we have been hosting many more events, all of which are going houseful,” artist Reshma Venkatraman says. The concept was introduced when one of the founders, after having stayed abroad and seen such parties, felt stifled in the city. “After coming back to Bengaluru, I found no time to   in a household with kids. I yearned for a place where I could just go and paint. But here, we only had schools that would teach from the basics and that did not appeal to me,” she says. 
 The idea is for everyone present to use painting as a medium of communication and bond at the event. “The   and snacks also help with networking. Moreover, at the end, from a blank canvas, you create something that you can call your own, and get to take home,” says Rhea Raghavan of Couple of Us, who hosted one such event Wolfpack Café.
  
  
 Rashmi Shivappa, a dentist, who participated at a paint party this month at Church Street Social, says, “We were recently in Bali, where art is taken seriously, with beautiful masterpieces sold on the streets all the time. That steeled my determination to do more on the art front. I wanted to learn how to paint, but didn’t know where to start as I did not want to commit to classes every weekend. So, when I learnt of this event, I readily agreed. I loved painting as a kid, and had forgotten how doing something you like can give you so much happiness.” However, you do not need to be an artist to attend this party. Agni Janikaram, who conducted one of the meets, says, “We have had people who have never picked up a paint brush, so we encourage them to try marble painting, dot painting and abstract art, with our guidance of, course.”
 An event of this sort generally sees around 25 people and costs `1,500 per person, which is inclusive of all the necessary painting equipment like canvas, paint and brush, apron, a drink and hors d’oeuvres.
 Still thinking why you should go for one? Rashmi Kothari of  , who regularly conducts such classes, says, “What better way to spend a weekend than by picking a skill set, at your favourite café/pub while making friends and getting to eat your favourite grub?
 Social media manager Yamini feels Bengaluru definitely needs such events, because we don’t have a beach. “It’s a good way to kill time. We need more such events here, because we need more entertainment options than just clubbing or hanging out at boring malls.”
 
  
 Also, the participants range from 20-year-olds to those in their 40s. Sunita Kriplani, a lawyer in her late 40s, says, “I love art, and used to paint regularly in my college days. However, I have lost touch with it over the years. This class revived my happy memories and I will definitely come back for more. Apart from the art, it gives me a chance to mingle with youngsters.”
 However, though most of the events see a majority of women, men like Karthik Krishnan, a 29-year-old software engineer, also turns up. He says, “The ideal combination of painting, food and drinks, and networking got me here. I am glad I came, because it was a fun and creative evening, where I could get rid of my anxieties and just play with colours.”
 The activity is a good way for couples to spend time together. Keeping this in mind, Valentine’s Day saw many such events being conducted across the city at places such as The Open Box, Three Dots and a Dash, and Harry’s Bar and Café. “It is a unique experience that blends painting, music, friends, food and, of course, fun. I had a feeling that many of the paintings will represent my kids’ canvas, but all of them churned out masterpieces — maybe, because it is not a typical art class where you are weighed down by expectations of perfection. These events have the potential to awaken the sleeping painters in many, all they need is a positive mindset,” said Amit Ahuja of The Open Box.
 
 
