THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The   will set up dengue fever   at seven district hospitals, in the   in   in the district. The counters will start functioning at Neyyatinkara district hospital, Nedumangadu district hospital, Peroorkada district model hospital, taluk hospitals (Varkala, Chirayinkeezhu and Vithura) and General Hospital, with the support of Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology (RGCB). 

 Experts from laboratory medicine and molecular diagnostic division of the centre would conduct the tests.
 
 “In remote areas like Vithura, it takes seven days to confirm if a patient is infected with dengue fever. The samples are sent to public health lab and it takes time. With the counters at hospitals, diagnosis of disease would be faster. 
 
 The counters would continue to function until the situation is brought under control,” said district panchayat president V K Madhu.
 
 R Ashok, registrar of RGCB, said test results would be ready in twenty minutes at the counters. “We have arranged 10,000 kits for the hospitals as part of the initiative,” he said.
 
 Only those patients who register at the seven hospitals and are referred for sample test by doctors would be able to avail the facility. 
 
 Dengue diagnostic centres will start functioning at Neyyatinkara hospital on Sunday.
 
 Health minister K K Shylaja will inaugurate the lab at General Hospital on Monday. Supporting staff from each hospital will also be deployed at the diagnostic counters, said Madhu.
 
 District medical officer Jose G D'cruz said mosquitoes that spread dengue lay eggs in clear water and public co-operation was required to keep the disease under check. “We don't have any vaccine for this disease. The eggs can remain intact for almost a year and that makes it extremely dangerous. The only way we can prevent this is by making sure that we destroy the breeding grounds of mosquitoes,'' said Jose.
 
 He added that dengue cases usually soar during the months of May, June and July and this year it has been on the higher side. “Last year dengue 2 , dengue 3 viruses were spotted here and now it’s only dengue 1 type virus,'' he said.
 
 In panchayats like Pallichal, which has recorded the highest number of dengue cases, it is observed that people collect water and store in containers and barrels for weeks which lead to breeding of mosquitoes. A total of 252 dengue cases have been reported from Pallichal so far.
 
