MUMBAI: The international cricket fraternity , until recently dictated by India's show of strength thanks to the  's financial clout, will now congregate in Dubai next month to pass a resolution that has serious potential to cause Indian cricket losses in excess of Rs 900 crore for the financial cycle between 2015-2023.

 This will be a direct result of policy changes ­ regarding revenue distribution ­ being planned by majority full members of the   ( ).
 
 According to figures accessed by TOI, ICC expects $ 2.5 billion as revenue for the cycle 2015-23. BCCI is expected to receive at least $ 507 million (Rs 3400 cr) as contribution costs during this cycle. However, the decision of the world governing body's independent chairman,  , to reduce the income of Big Three -India, Australia and England ­ from 21.9% to 15% will hurt the Indian board massively (projected at Rs 900 cr). For the next cycle ­ 2023-31 ­ the loss is expected to be to the tune of Rs 2000 cr.
 
 Therefore, the total losses likely to hurt India's interests in the next 14 years (between now and 2031) could be pegged at Rs 3000 cr.
 
 ICC's position paper for the 2008-15 cycle clearly suggests that the parent body generated a total revenue of $1.57b which was distributed in the following manner: Each Full Member (FM) received $52.5m Associate & Affiliate (A&A) distribution was shown at $315m but only $125m was directly distributed to A&A members and the remaining $190m was spent by ICC as grants, distribution or costs ­ details of which was not approved by the ICC Board nor its all-powerful Financial & Commercial Affairs Committee.
 
 Costs for ICC events during this cycle were pegged at $512m and the administration cost at $212m.
 
 When the position paper for 2015-23 was drafted, the above details were included to introduce a revised model. Distribution and costs were allocated based on total revenue ICC would generate. It categorically states that distribution of revenue was earlier done based on India contributing to revenues but it would change now.
 
 The move to bring about the Big Three financial model first began when former BCCI president N Srinivasan came on board as the chairman of the ICC.It was then pointed out that more than 85% of media rights income that accrues to ICC for ICC events are coming from Indian market and almost 100% of the sponsorships for ICC events are from Indian companies.
 
 BCCI was made a member in all important committees of the ICC for taking decisions. However, the recent bosses of the In dian board now blame Manohar for deliberately keeping them away after taking over.The BCCI's sacked regime says it was Manohar who insisted that some full members of the ICC were unhappy with BCCI earning a larger share in revenue and gave himself the authority to renegotiate.
 
 Those who understand the affairs of the ICC, from India's perspective, say “The fact of the matter is that BCCI can terminate the arrangement with ICC to participate in ICC events in case ICC unilaterally changes the earlier arrangement.“
 
 The question is, in the prevailing circumstances, who takes that call?
 
 Insult to injury
 
 As if the financial loss alone is not enough, the BCCI will also see majority of the full members at ICC give a go-ahead to restructuring of a revenue pool of world cricket's overseas media rights this February , one that India had been opposing all this while.
 
 Overseas rights for India's 2018 tour of England are still up for the taking and broadcasters too are playing the wait and watch game.
 
 
