It's been 10 days since model TV host   passed away in a fatal accident that left   facing a crossfire of questions, which has left him and his well-wishers rather uncomfortable. Sonika is gone and with that, it seems, the friendship that she once shared with Vikram or Bunty , as she fondly addressed him. Sonika and Vikram were once friends. But the clear demarcation on social media today is saddening and disrespectful towards both of them.The world of virtual reality tells us, almost dismissively , what it must feel like to lose a friend.

 The two trending hashtags are in stark contrast -one reads #JusticeForSonika and the other, #VoiceForVikram. And who among them is the saddest? It's neither party - it is, but the friendship that the duo once shared.The friendship that pictures, posts and reply threads on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram are standing proof of.
 
  
  
 Sonika's friends and family are seeking justice but Vikram's followers are looking for a voice too. When CT got in touch with Vikram's best friend, actor Ankush, he was disheartened at the comments on social media. “I want the law to take its course but one cannot blame me for morally being by my friend's side.Whether he was intoxicated will be proven once the evidence is made public but till then, why must we take part in this circus? My heart goes out to Sonika's family and friends.“
 
 Sonika and Vikram's common friend, actor Anindya Chatterjee, too is saddened by what's happening. “We are seeking answers -whether it's for Vikram or for Sonika. It's important to treat the matter with dignity .Some of the comments under the hashtags are dumbed down to a ridiculous degree. People are jumping to conclusions,“ he said.
 
 On Monday, Sonika's friends and family held a candlelight vigil in front of Tollygunge police station to demand justice, while fans on social media raised questions on whether Vikram was too drunk (read beyond permissible limits) to slam the car. Supporters say , no one, least of all him, could have predicted the accident. Vikram, today , is ironically making a wish and cursing himself at the same time.There's no easy way to lose a friend. He survived the crash but sadly , not the aftermath. 
 
