Nashik: Along with asking the government to promote wine tourism here, the   to continue the 16%   (VAT).

 These demands are being made ahead of the presentation of the   by Maharashtra finance minister   on March 18. 
 
 Wine producers have also asked the government to not impose duty on wine blending in the state budget.
 
 President of All India Wine Producers Association Yatin Patil said, “Currently, there is 20% VAT on wine. Of which, we get refunds of 16% after we pay full tax. Recently, there were reports that the government may close the subsidy. But, we want the government to continue it on VAT. There is another issue of duty on wine blending. As of now there is no duty on wine produced by the wineries.”
 
 Recently, the excise department had issued a circular of levying duty on wine blending. “We think that levying duty on the wine produced by one that is blended into another, is not right. We want the government to not impose such duty on wine blending,” said Patil.
 
 Moreover, the wine producers want the state government to concentrate on boosting wine tourism in the district. “There is huge potential for wine tourism here. We want the state government to promote wine tourism in the district and take measures towards this.”
 
 Of total 95 wineries in the country, 77 are located in Maharashtra. Of which, 39 wineries are in Nashik district alone. The state accounts for almost 90% of the total wine grape production in the country and Nashik contributes 80% of the total wine production in the country. 
 
 Earlier, the sales of wine were limited to tier I cities like Mumbai, Delhi and Bangalore. Now, there have been good sales in tier II and tier III cities too. There is also a rise in the numbers of visitors in Nashik district.
 
 During the financial year 2015-16, around 1.40 crore litres of wine was sold in the country, against 1.15 crore litres during 2014-15 financial year. Of which, 80% of the wine sold in the country was produced by Nashik wineries.
 
 
