MUMBAI: Campaigning for civic elections ended at 5.30pm on Sunday. The campaign for the five-yearly battle saw candidates put their best foot forward; some led colourful motor cavalcades and others padayatras, while a few opted to go door to door, in a quest to impress voters.

 The collateral damage caused by this blitzkrieg was visible in Worli and Dadar. Residents were tired of the constant knocking at the door by candidates and their supporters on a lazy Sunday. They were also annoyed by the blaring loudspeakers and live bands that accompanied every aspirant.
 
 “Every time, a candidate walked into a building, the supporters burst firecrackers. Also, they caused traffic jams,” said Sudhakar Gokhale, a resident of Shivaji Park. 
 
 “A   candidate led a trail of bikers behind her jeep and they continuously honked to get our attention. Senior citizens and students were all inconvenienced,” said Pratima Wagh, a resident of Dadar (E). 
 
 There was lasting damage to contend with as well. “Candidates of at least five parties stuck their posters on the walls of our building. We tried talking them off, but the paint peels off with the posters,” said Rukmini Patel, a resident of Worli.
 
 Elsewhere, citizens were amused when candidates promised to pave the streets with gold, almost. Independent candidate Saira Patel, a former nurse with Bombay Hospital, who is contesting from Lokhandwala Complex in Andheri promised to turn “Lokhandwala into Sonawala”. Her husband Mohammed Patel had fought the presidential election against  .
 
 Parlekars swallowed hard as steeped in the wool ex-MLA Krishna Hegde, who recently defected to the BJP, got former cricketer Vinod Kambli to canvass for BJP’s Sunita Mehta. In Chandivli, Congressman Naseem Khan led a massive bike rally, stopping only to accuse the BJP of failed promises and MIM of being its “agent”.
 
 Congresswoman Tulip Miranda, one of the richest candidates in the city whose assets are pegged at nearly Rs 40 crore, led a rally from Kalina market. At every junction of Kalina, she asked people to vote, irrespective of the party they choose.
 
 Two-time Congress corporator from Bandra Asif Zakaria opted for a padyatra to meet residents of housing societies and slums alike. Deputy mayor and sitting BJP corporator   held group meetings in Saraswat Colony, Santacruz.
 
 City Congress president   met auto and taxi union leaders at the domestic airport. “We have been supporting the cause of the auto-taxi trade and had also opposed the mandatory Marathi rule for new permits,” he said, targeting the north Indian voters.
 
 Mulund saw three bike rallies with 100 motorcyclists and as many autos canvassing for BJP’s Prakash Gangadhare. The Sena rally had the biggest flags with one of them bearing the portrait of Chhatrapati Shivaji. Women wore saffron saris and turbans at a Sena rally in Bhandup. Congressmen in white joined a padyatra led by AICC spokesperson Charan Singh Sapra. Kids danced near slums as an NCP vehicle blared out   lyrics set to the tune of Marathi song ‘Zing Zing Zingat’.
 
 In Ulhasnagar, BJP city president Kumar Ailani and Omie Kalani joined several rallies. Only a few state-level leaders campaigned in Ulhasnagar.
 
 
