PUNE: The Commonwealth War Grave   (CWGC) has decided to   the   of a British   who fought in World War I, nearly a century after he died.

 The soldier, Ethil Bird Mahy, was laid to rest in Dhamangaon in   district on May 10, 1921.
 
 The CWGC ensures the 1.7 million people who died in both world wars are remembered. The commission takes care of the cemeteries and memorials in 23,000 locations across 154 countries.
 
 Mahy had served with the 2 Manchester Regiment of the   army. It was only recently that CWGC authorities managed to trace his grave. 
 
 During a scrutiny of old records, the authorities came across details of Mahy’s services. The infantryman’s service number was 2518. 
 
 The officials asked M S Bahanwal, manager of the Kirkee War Cemetry, to trace the soldier’s grave. Bahanwal is responsible for the war cemeteries in Maharashtra, Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka.
 
 Bahanwal told TOI, “As per CWGC records, Ethil sustained injuries in war, and later stayed with his family at Dhamangaon where he was laid to rest after his death.” 
 
 With help from a local resident, Bahanwal managed to trace the whereabouts of the grave recently. He authenticated the grave with a photograph of the CWGC.
 
 Bahanwal said, “The grave is not in good shape, as it has not been maintained for over a century. It requires immediate renovation.”
 
 However, CWGC authorities have found it difficult to obtain the requisite permission from the local revenue department under whose jurisdiction the land comes under. 
 
 Bahanwal said, “I met local authorities and I have showed them the necessary documents. The paperwork clearly shows that the grave belongs to a soldier. Local authorities gave an in-principle not for the grave’s renovation, but we have yet to get the permission in writing. We will proceed with the renovation once we get clearance.”
 
 The CWGC requires 10 soft piece land for the purpose. Bahanwal said an expert CWGC team would visit the plot and decide the renovation plan.
 
 Amravati’s British link
 
 Amravati district was a part of the Central Provinces and Berar, assigned to the British East India Company following a treaty with the Nizam of Hyderabad in 1853. The province had two districts, and Amravati was part of North Berar with its headquarters in Buldhana. Later, the province was reconstituted and Amravati became a part of East Berar with headquarters at Amravati.
 
 
