Do you dread wearing high heels because they leave you with  ? Worry no more…

 We’ve all been there -- limping home after a party with tired, swollen feet! For most women, wearing high heels is a painful experience. In a recent survey, 2,000 women and men were asked how long it took for heels to start hurting their feet. Almost 20 per cent respondents said pain started within 10 minutes.
  
 Says Rita Majumdar, a 29-year-old advertising professional for whom high heels are an occupational hazard, “Since I am in the corporate industry and have client meetings to attend, I have to wear formal clothes everyday. And, since flats don’t go well with formals, I have no other option but to wear heels. Eventually, I limp back home with an aching feet.”
 
 
 
 Apart from leaving you with an aching feet, heels also lead to corn, callus, bunions and back pain. At times, it even causes disfigurement. For example, if you’ve been wearing heels for a long time, it can change the way you walk. Says foot physiotherapist Dr Nayan Shah, “Wearing heels on a daily basis is not recommended because it takes a toll on your posture. It also puts pressure on your forefoot, which in turn causes pain in the knee joints, thighs and back. So, when you choose a heel, pick one with a little cushion. Also, rest your feet once you take off those heels.”
 
 
 
 Manek Singhal, fashion professional says, “Opt for a heel that is stable when you know that you will be walking around in them for long hours. Wide heels provide comfort as opposed to stilettos. Any heel higher than three-four inches causes pain in your limbs. The best way out is to wear wedges." Heels that don’t fit well can also cause pain. Wear heels with ankle straps for support. Also, don’t run around or walk too fast in heels; they will definitely make your feet hurt.
 
 
 
 
  Move over cotton, place some moleskin in your shoes to walk around comfortably. It prevents blisters, which are common when you wear heels. This soft adhesive will protect your feet; it will also last longer, so you don’t have to worry about it coming off while you walk.
 
 
  They distribute pressure evenly and make your heels much more bearable. Though a bit tight, they loosen up in due course of time. Choose insoles that you can wear with different pairs of heels.
 
 
 The ball of your feet suffers the most when you wear heels. Toe insert will provide a cushion around the area, thus making it easy for you to walk. It’s easily available and not very expensive. 
 
 
  If you have narrow feet and wear slingbacks often, this insert works the best. These adhesive strips keep the heel of your shoe in place and also prevent painful blisters at the back of your feet.
 
 
 
 
  Though it is advised to soak tired and aching feet in lukewarm water, ice pack works wonders. Your feet is bound to get swollen after wearing heels the whole day, and cold water/ice pack relaxes the muscles and reduces the swelling immediately. Keep the ice pack on for 15 minutes, apply a generous amount of cold cream on your feet and massage until absorbed. This will keep your feet smooth and also reduce the pain.
 
  Massaging your feet with essential oils before you retire for the night will ensure that they don’t hurt. Lavender, chamomile and geranium oils are great to soothe tired heels.
 
  According to a research, it takes 1 hour, 6 minutes and 48 seconds for your high heels to start hurting!
 
