CHENNAI/MADURAI: With the Centre asserting that the archeologiscal site in Keezhadi is 2200 years old, experts have raised a demand for an open site museum on the lines of Harappa and Mohenjodaro. 

 "The Keezhadi excavation is the only opportunity available to the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) to scientifically define the Sangam era, like the Harappan civilization.The carbon dating results which have put it at 2200 years ago is reason why we should intensify this excavation and collect more samples," said Superintending Archaeologist K Amarnath Ramakrishna, the man who was instrumental in unveiling Keezhadi to the world.
 
 He said Union minister Mahesh Sharma’s statement in   on Thursday confirmed their observation that this was a Sangam era sight, belonging to the 3 rd century B.C (300 B.C). The samples that were sent for carbon dating were taken at a depth of 2.5 meter at the site, as buildings emerged at this depth, providing proof that a civilization had flourished at this stage. But, the excavation should go on to a depth of 4.5 meters over the entire 110 acres, for the period to be defined accurately.
 
 Though permission had been sought to send ten samples for the previous carbon dating, only two were sent, Amarnath said, adding that he had 20 more samples which could go a long way in confirming the carbon dating results. Carbon dating should be done at least for 15 to 18 samples from the bottom to top layers of the excavation sites, and at regular intervals.
 
 Twenty six samples from Kalibangan site in Rajasthan, 15 from Khirasara in   and 18 from Dholavira in Gujarat were sent for carbon dating. But, only two from Keezhadi. Hence, there is an urgent need to test more samples including those collected from deeper pits, he said.
 
 Meanwhile, archaeological experts have urged the Centre to convert the excavation site into a site museum. "Tamil Nadu government must pressurise the Centre to make Keezhadi as open site museum on the lines of Harappa and Mohenjodaro," said B Athmanathan, assistant secretary,   for Historical Research. Underscoring that Tamil-Brahmi scripts dating back to the second century BC was discovered from Keezhadi, he said, the site must be subjected to further excavations.
 
 It may be recalled that Sharma had announced that the third phase of the excavations at Keezhadi would begin in May. Later, the Madurai Bench of the Madras high court had directed the ASI to establish a site museum at Keezhadi to preserve the artefacts discovered during the excavation.
 
