NAGPUR: In theory, the government intends to boost credit offtake by spending more on developing infrastructure. However, there needs to be a direct link to employment which was not stressed upon in the union budget, said former vice-chancellor of   Vinayak Deshpande on Saturday.

 Deshpande delivered a talk on ‘Union budget 2017-18’ organized by   at Dharampeth High School’s Shahapurkar Hall, North Ambazari Road, on Saturday. He talked about the implications of the budget in the backdrop of demonetisation.
 
 Although finance minister Arun Jaitley announced a record allocation of Rs48,000 crore for schemes under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MNREGA), Deshpande believed not many will benefit from it. “Most of the unemployed people have had formal education and they do not fall under the purview of the social initiatives,” he said.
 
 If private companies do not have sufficient workforce they may not consider buying credits from banks, said Deshpande. This is where implementation of universal basic income (UBI) may benefit unemployed graduates, he said. “The government has delayed introduction of UBI, but if implemented, it will give a minimum income to unemployed which, in turn, will boost markets,” said Deshpande.
 
 He suggested a work around for the unemployed. He believed that MBA and engineering graduates can work in rural areas thereby encouraging development there. He also suggested establishing an agricultural training institute in Nagpur which will train students with rural development at the core of the curriculum.
 
 The upward trend of non-performing assets (NPAs) is a subject of worry which is inhibiting growth in credit market, said Deshpande. In order to mitigate its effects, the Centre announced recapitalization of public sector banks with an allocation of Rs 10,000 crore. The move, he said, will save bad banks.
 
 In a question-and-answer session after the lecture, a member of the audience asked about the prospects of contract farming in Maharashtra. Deshpande said, “It is viable”. He exemplified contract farming in Gujarat where farmers are in contract with private firms and have implemented cold storage facilities for their produce.
 
 
