AMRITSAR: Preventing three jathedars of Takhts from Punjab to attend the 350th anniversary celebration functions of   in Bihar could be a   among religious heads even as Jathedar of   Giani Iqbal Singh, in past, had refused to accept the supremacy of  .
 
 But whether invited or not, the Jathedar of Akal Takht Giani Gurbachan Singh has announced to go to Patna Sahib to participate in the anniversary functions.
 
 "Nobody can stop a Sikh from going anywhere to pay obeisance and I will go to Patna Sahib,” said Gurbachan Singh while talking to TOI on Monday.
 
 Sources in Panthic circles said that Giani Iqbal Singh had always been on a war of words over supremacy of Takht Patna Sahib at par with Akal Takht.
  
 In 2008 during the time of the then Jathedar of Akal Takht Giani Joginder Singh Vedanit, Iqbal Singh had openly refused to accept the supremacy of Akal Takht and had advocated that Takht Patna Sahib could also take decisions on significant religious affairs forcing the then Sikh high priests to announce before media that only Akal Takht could take decisions on significant religious matters concerning the entire community whereas other Takhts, including Takht Patna Sahib, could take decisions on local issues.
 
 When asked about Giani Iqbal Singh’s letter advising him and other Punjab jathedars to not attend the function, as they could face the ire of Sikh bodies in case of pardoning of Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Raheem, he feigned ignorance about the letter. However, he said Giani Iqbal Singh was also one of the high priests who was signatory to the decision taken by them with respect to Gurmeet Ram Raheem.
 
 He said there were certain forces which were trying to create controversy out of nothing. When asked to identify those forces, he replied “You also know them”.
 
 He, however, made it clear that he was going to Patna Sahib and will pay obeisance there. “Who can stop a Sikh from paying obeisance at Gurdwara,” he questioned. 
  
 He said that there was a religious function at Kanpur following which he would leave for Patna Sahib.
 
