Special screenings of Jackie and Lion, more shows of 'La La Land' and 'Hidden Figures', and the re-release of 'The Arrival' – the   season (which begins with the announcement of the nominations and ends with the Academy Awards ceremony) means a Hollywood high for Gurgaon. 
Till some years ago, Hollywood films which were released in Gurgaon in the Oscar season were not able to draw the same crowds as in Delhi, so Gurgaon had very few shows of Oscar-nominated films. But now that has changed. The demand for movies in the Oscars race has increased, and cinemas allot more shows of these films to Gurgaon’s theatres.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Cinema hall owners in Gurgaon tell us that till a few years back, Oscar releases used to be a "market gimmick" and it was only the   crowd that was more interested in Hollywood films. But now, it’s unthinkable not to release them in Gurgaon. As a cinema owner puts it, "If Hollywood films cater to a niche audience, then your niche audience is more in Gurgaon than in any other city."
 
 Kamal Gianchandani, CEO, PVR Pictures, says, "The demand for Oscar-nominated films or those that win the other awards has increased manifold in Gurgaon. The shows are getting a good response, the occupancy has improved, and they have advance bookings. The demand for these films is much more visible in Gurgaon. It has not happened in just one year. Over the years, the demand for these films has increased in Gurgaon. The reason for this change is that the people who live and work in Gurgaon prefer Hollywood films."
 
  
  Pic: Ajay Kumar Gautam; Location courtesy: PVR Cinemas, Ambience mall, Gurgaon
 
 
 The box-office success of Oscar-nominated films in the last few years has also encouraged more cinema halls to release Hollywood films in Gurgaon, which was not the case earlier.  , group president, SRS Cinemas, says, "It’s not just new Hollywood films that are released in February. Older films who get nominated are also re-released in Gurgaon. Indeed, the release dates are timed to coincide with the Oscar season. Like 'Moonlight' released worldwide last September, but was released in India in February. If one hall is showing Oscar-nominated films, others also have to catch-up, else you lose your audience. We can’t take the risk of not releasing them in Gurgaon because that would mean losses."
 A staff member at   tells us, "Gurgaon is obviously anything but a regular 'desi market', given its expat crowd, so the demand of this market is different. Not just Oscar-nominated films, but all Hollywood films get a better response in Gurgaon than in Delhi."
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 MNC employees and expats have also determined how the shows are timed in Gurgaon. Late night shows are more preferable, and most Hollywood shows are being slotted for 8pm and 11pm.
 Gianchandani says, "Most of the shows for Hollywood films are slotted for 8pm, and then we are also giving the option of 11pm and 11:30pm shows. The time slots are given considering that the audience in Gurgaon will be able to come for the shows at this hour. We did the same for the Oscars festival too."
 
 A staff member at SRS Cinemas adds, "People who come for late night shows are those who use their own transport to commute in Gurgaon. The shows are decided according to the demand of the movies, but yes, 11pm shows are a must for Gurgaon."
 
 
