BHOPAL: Soulful Sufi musical hits by Nooran Sisters – Jyoti and Sultana Nooran – had the audience swaying to their tunes on Monday evening at concluding ceremony of mega cultural festival  .

 The Nooran Sisters began with popular Sufi hit Allahu-Allahu and other numbers, including Bollywood hit ‘Patakha kudiyu’, ‘Pardemai rehne do’, The audience was in for a surprise, when the sisters took the stage and asked audience to join them in singing.
 
 A rising name in the field of Sufi style of singing, as well as in Bollywood mesmerised the Bhopalies with their live performance on the occasion.
 
 Jyoti and Sultana shot to fame after their stint with MTV-Coke Studios and the Sufi song ‘Allah huu-Allah huu’, besides belting out Bollywood blockbusters, including Dangal, Highway Tanu weds Manu etc.
 
 The sisters signed off with ‘Dama Dum Mast Qalandar' and also belted out popular Punjabi songs, including ‘Long Da Lashkara’ and ‘Mitti Da Bawa’.
 
 The duo belongs to the Sham Chaurasia Gharana of classical music and had trained with veteran singer Gulshan Mir, their father and the inheritor of the tradition. They are the great granddaughters of Bibi Nooran, the classical Sufi and folk singer.
 
 To observe the death anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi as Shaeed Diwas, India classical singer Parveen Sultana gave a fascinating live performance of classical songs.
 
 She opened the evening with Raag Purya Dhanasree and closed her performance with compositions of maestro Dilshaad Khan’s Raag Basant. Her voice possessed the power to stun listeners who thronged the venue in thousands. Her reach of voice and playing with tones drew huge applause.
 
 A multidimensional five-day long programme of tribal, folk and Indian art and culture Lokrang 2017 was organised at Dusshera ground BHEL and concluded on Tuesday with superb performances.
 
 Thousands of people from all walks of life turned up to enjoy colourful culture fest. People were not only listening to Nooran sisters and Parveen Sultana, but enjoyed shopping at different stalls with variety of traditional item.
 
 In this Lokrang edition, 445 stalls were put up and as many as 15 movies were screened for children besides Malkham and puppet shows.
 
