AHMEDABAD: On his last day in office, outgoing vice-chancellor (VC) of   (GU), M N   on Tuesday said that the senate and syndicate system should be abolished in the interest of the varsity.

 Speaking to reporters on his last day in office, Patel said the BJP’s student wing, Akhil Bhartiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP), had disturbed him the most during his tenure. “They came with various demands and most of them were very small and frivolous issues. They would pressurize me to withdraw many of GU’s decisions,” Patel, who was VC during from February 20, 2014 to February 21, 2017, said on Tuesday.
 
  He said members of the   (NSUI) of the Congress were the most systematic in pressing their demands to the varsity authorities.
 
 With Patel’s farewell, all of GU’s main top posts will be governed by in-charge office-bearers.  , the in-charge registrar and dean of science, has been given additional charge of acting VC. Piyush Patel, who is holding the post of examination controller, will be given charge of acting registrar.
 
 Elaborating on his views about abolishing the senate and syndicate system, he said that the varsity should be governed by a board of directors which should have persons from different background like industry and academia.
 
 “The appointment of the VC should be apolitical and he should be given freedom to work without political intervention. The government should also interfere the least in university affairs,” Patel said.
 
 Patel also said that one syndicate member appointed by the Gujarat government made the most interventions in his work.
 
 About his achievement in the last three years, he said the digitization of all documents and online admission procedures for undergraduate and postgraduate courses were the most remarkable works of his tenure.
 
 Expressing anguish, Patel said, “Had I been given a second term I would have got the chance to work for the development of the university. I am sad because I could not make the Rs 100 crore research park for students.”
 
 
