LUDHIANA: A 40-year-old cable operator of   at   was shot dead at his residence after some unidentified assailants pumped three bullets into his body on Wednesday midnight.

 The deceased has been identified as Harwinder Singh alias Bittu. The neighbours said they did not hear any gunshot. They came to know about the incident on Friday morning when his family members raised an alarm.
 
 The Meharban police have registered a murder case against unidentified accused in this context. As there was no sign of loot or scuffle in the house, the police suspected known persons behind the killing.
 
 The victim used to live alone at his lavish house in   despite having two wives. One wife lived nearby and the other resided in a different area.
 
 Santosh, first wife of the deceased, told police that she used to serve food to her husband. On Friday morning, her son had come to serve breakfast to her husband. The door was open and Ramandeep returned after keeping breakfast on the table.
 
 Santosh added that after sometime when she went there to collect utensils, she found that he hadn’t touched the food. When she went to the room, she found her husband’s body lying on the bed. She raised an alarm following which neighbours gathered and police were informed.
 
 According to police, the TV of Bittu was switched on at high volume due to which the gunshot was not heard by neighbours. The police also said that it was friendly entry. Bittu was a drug addict and his friends used to visit him daily to have drinks with him.
 
 Additional deputy commissioner of police-IV   said Bittu had been living separately from his wives for the past 10 years. He has three children from his first wife Santosh, who lives in Meharban and two children from second wife Inderjit Kaur, who lives with her parents in Basti Jodhewal area.   and her children run his cable business.
 
 The ADCP further added that the police have been trying to dig out if there was any family feud over property or business. According to the prima facie, he was gunned down on intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday. The police have been scanning CCTVs installed in the area to get a clue about assailants.
 
 
