BENGALURU: Having derived political mileage by supporting the   protesting against what they deem unfair prices of app-based cab aggregators   and  , JD(S) state president H D Kumaraswamy has now decided to cash in on the booming cab industry. Candid in admitting the move would definitely translate into a vote bank for him and his party in the 2018 assembly polls, Kumaraswamy told TOI that he has decided to launch the HDK cab services as an alternative mode of campaigning and also to break the monopoly of the major aggregators.

 
 One-and-a-half years ago, some Ola and Uber cab drivers approached me seeking my intervention to solve their problems like irregular and under-payment to them. I tried to take up the issue with the state government, but was told that it could not intervene in a private negotiations between the companies and drivers. So, I decided to give the drivers a capital investment and seed money to start their own. I’m not in it for the money. It will be a no-profit-no-loss set-up from my side.
 
 
 I admit, 100 per cent, that it will translate into a vote bank. In fact, the cab drivers will give me more publicity and edge than my own party workers. But this selfish motive is not the reason for the project. It was to ensure that the problems of these boys (cab drivers), who come from the hinterlands of Karnataka, pledging their lands and homes, are resolved.
 
 
 I agree, a good number of cab drivers are from parts of Mandya, Old Mysuru region and Tumakuru. There are many from Naragund, Navalgund, Bagalkot etc. There is also a sizeable number of people from the minority community. This project is not to appease or help any particular community.
 
 
 At present,   are charging 30 per cent of the earnings as commission. I have contacted my supporters and well-wishers, who are in senior positions in software companies, to provide the same services----maintaining the back-end office and creating a mobile application for consumers--- at 2 per cent commission. The rest of the money will go to the cab drivers. I will be initially providing a seed money of Rs 1 to Rs 2 crore to set up the system. The total investment is being worked out.
 
 
 I have several other public commitments, so personally I will not be involved. I will be seeking the office-bearers of the 13 or 14 driver associations to be part of the board and manage the show. It will be managed as a society or association.
 
 
 We’re expecting the services to be launched in another month. If the model succeeds in Bengaluru, then it will be extended to other cities. I have also got enquiries from New Delhi and Mumbai where cab drivers are on strike.
 
