Nagpur: Lack of endurance and increasing feeling to get social identity are the major reasons behind youngsters committing suicide, said Dr Sushil Gawande, a psychiatrist, on Tuesday.

 Speaking at a seminar on ‘Suicide among youth: Reasons and remedies’, organized by Tirpude College of Social Work under the banner of Child Guidance and Students Counselling Centre and Medical and Psychological Social Work (MPSW), in collaboration with Rotarian Action Group on Mental Health Initiatives, Dr Gawande said that many youths are immature, impatient and possess impulsive personality traits. These characteristics often lead to shattered expectations and depression. It is estimated that around 40% people suffering from depression attempt suicide and approximately 15% of them succeed.
 
 He said that an individual does not suffer from depression overnight as it is a gradual process whose indications are not understood immediately. It takes time to get rid of depression. Internet is like a nuclear bomb and Blue Whale game many youngsters are hooked to shows its destructive nature, he added.
 
 Psychologist Rita Aggarwal spoke on the importance of emotional intelligence in preventing and handling stress. Constant motivation can shape an individual’s personality and drastically reduce depression and suicidal tendency. Introspection and a sense of social responsibility can work wonders and boost self-confidence of children to understand how important life is. Life skill lessons taught everyday at an early stage can make children mentally strong and guide them through the rebellious adolescent phase, Aggarwal added.
 
 A film titled Phoenix, made by students of Tirpude College highlighting the devastating effects of suicide and methods to prevent the same, was shown during the seminar.
 
 After the lectures, a panel discussion was held on ‘Social dimension of suicides’. Psychiatrist Sandhya Durge, Aggarwal and S Dharmadhikari, associate professor, took part in the panel discussion which emphasized the role of the society and measures to counter-attack negative influences. 
 
 KS Patil, principal, said that such events help clear doubts among children and give solutions to avoid depression. 
 
 Shubham Ukey, student coordinator for the event, spoke on depression and called for creating awareness to take preventive measures to stop suicides.
 
 (Reporting by Praveen Tewari)
 
 
