A group of students, all  , have landed in trouble for trying to help their friend elope with her boyfriend while her mother had locked her up in the house and gone to work. The students — all studying in a PU college — reportedly used a hacksaw blade to cut through the iron gate of the girl’s house to help her flee. But while they were at it, the mother returned and all of them ran down from the first-floor apartment and stood near the gate.

 The girl insisted that she wanted to speak with her friends downstairs regarding her forthcoming exams, and the mother allowed her to. During this time, she eloped with her boyfriend who was waiting at a distance on a scooter.
 
 After the 17-year-old did not return home, her mother filed a police complaint, mentioning the names of all the friends who helped her daughter elope.
 
 The girl, residing in an upscale apartment in Mallathahalli (west Bengaluru) had met her 20-year-old boyfriend on Facebook five months ago. She is in II PU at a women’s college in Rajajinagar.
 
 According to a police officer, the mother had come to know about the affair and had advised her to keep away from the boy. But when she refused to stop seeing the boyfriend, she stopped sending her to college and would often lock her up in the house before going for work. (The girl’s father had passed away a few years ago.)
 But the girl kept in touch with her friends and the boyfriend over the phone – her mobile was taken away too, so she would use the landline.
 
 Last month, she had gone to college to attend a practical exam. “There, she met two of her friends from college and together they hatched an escape plan. A few days later, when the mother was not at home, they went to her place and used a hacksaw blade to cut through the iron gates of her house and help her escape,” said the officer.
 
 The minor found her boyfriend waiting on a scooter and reportedly eloped with him. After her daughter did not return home, her mother filed a case with the city police.
 
 The woman in her complaint has mentioned the names of her daughter’s friends. The girl eloped on February 10 and was traced on February 22.
 
 “The two were traced on February 22, which happened to be her 18th birthday. They were traced at Chintamani and were brought back to the city. The girl in her statement confessed that they had sex without her consent (between February 16 and 19, when she was still a minor). The girl’s friends who helped her elope will also be questioned. Since they are appearing for their PU exams, we are not disturbing them. However, the girl’s friends have done what most friends do. In all likelihood, they would be warned and sent away. If need be, even their statements will be recorded along with the girl,” the officer added.
 
 Meanwhile, the police have arrested her boyfriend. He has been booked for procuration of minor girl (IPC 366A), rape (IPC 376) and under Section 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012.
 
