PUNE: The Indian army has raised a new mechanised infantry battalion for operational preparedness in forward posts located in the north and northeast sectors after 23 years, sources in the army told TOI on Saturday .

 According to the Army , the 27th battalion of the mechanised infantry has been chanised infantry has been raised at Bhusaval. It could not be set up earlier the way it was desired due to acute shortage of BMP -a Russian-origin vehicle that is used to carry soldiers.
 
 In 2015, the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) had categorically mentioned in its report that army faced a 47% shortage of BMP vehicles. The major reason for the shortfall was the delay in supply of 389 BMPs by   since 2009. The CAG report had also added this not only affected the operational preparedness of the mechanised forces but also entailed a minimum extra liability of Rs 270.97 crore due to cost escalation.
 
 The former director-general of the mechanised forces, Major General  , who retired in 2016, told TOI on Saturday , “Due to failure of OFB Medak, where BMP vehicles are manufactured, the Indian army failed to raise more mechanised infantry battalions in the past.“
 
 Army sources said raising mechanised infantry battalions is costly affair.Hence, fighting arms that are involved in operations in forward areas are prioritized.
 
 A senior army officer said, “One mechanised infantry battalion consists of around 62 BMP vehicles and about 800 personnel, including officers.It requires huge budgetary allocation. Considering the current threat perceptions in Jammu and Kashmir and the northeast regions, the Indian army has been paying more attentions to its fighting arms as they are directly involved in operations. As a result, adequate budget was not allocated to the mechanised infantry in the past two decades.This has hampered its expansion plans.“
 
 Explaining the importance of the mechanised infantry , Lieutenant General   (retd), former director general (mechanised forces), said, “The mechanised infantry works in tandem with the armoured regiment and plays pivotal role in operations. It is a   that one more battalion has been added in the force.“
 
