CHANDIGARH: Former Mewat deputy commissioner (DC) Maniram Sharma, who came under the judicial scanner for humiliating villagers during his raids against those defecating in the open, has blamed his staff for "drafting wrong words" that were used on his social media platforms. The officer, however, has also offered an unconditional apology for his acts before the   and Haryana high court.

 These assertions were made by Sharma, now posted as Palwal DC, in the affidavit submitted before the HC in response to a petition accusing him of degrading people by posting their pictures on Facebook.
 
 The officer stated that during the campaign launched against   in the district, he had involved some staff, who were asked to write a positive message on social media for behavioural change of people in the region. It was claimed it was normal that the officers have been dependent on their staff for writing such messages on his various social media platforms because of their engagement in other administrative works.
 
 "Due to their limited comprehension abilities, staff drafted wrong words and posted it on social media. As soon as it came to my notice, staff was reprimanded for their negligence in their drafting of a positive message," Sharma has claimed.
 
 The officer added that campaign on social media was launched as an additional measure to involve young and educated population who are receptive to positive behavioural changes messages. It has been used to trigger discussions among youth for the cessation of open defecation and its hazards, he added.
 
 Submitting that all the allegations levelled against him are false and made to harass him, the DC has stated, "However if the court came to a conclusion that he has done soothing wrong in the eyes of law, then he seeks unconditional apologies."
 
 In his affidavit, the officer has also tried to defend him by showcasing his achievements and the development undertaken as DC of Mewat.
 
 The issue reached the court when one Islam, a resident of   village, and others from nearby villages in Mewat district filed a petition against Sharma. The villagers told the court that no law had been enacted or rules notified against open defecation and yet Sharma had been "harassing, torturing and humiliating" people of the area by misusing his powers to enforce the open defecation free (ODF) mission.
 
 "Most of the people in Mewat area have to go to the fields early in the morning because of their dependence on agriculture, but the DC had been wrongly correlating that with the ‘call of nature’ and defaming the dignity of the people by clicking their pictures and making them public on social sites. The DC has been labeling them hardcore criminals who have committed serious crimes," argued Mazlish Khan, counsel for the petitioners.
 
 The villagers say the DC’s actions violate their fundamental right. Khan has sought directions to the authorities concerned both in the Centre and in Haryana "to issue chargesheet and punish the officer for his undemocratic, improper and illegal attitude towards the people of the area".
 
 In June, Sharma was criticized by several groups after he uploaded on Facebook a picture of four men detained for defecating in the open. The picture showed the four men squatting in front of a police jeep. The post had drawn protests for ‘inappropriate’ language used by the officer about the men. The picture was later removed from Sharma’s Facebook account.
 
