Bhubaneswar: Contrary to general perception, Maoists, who posed the biggest threat to the panchayat election, have so far not played the spoilsport. 

  Still, the first two phases of the election have not been completely free of tension as political violence took place at many places. Police fear the situation may escalate in the remaining three phases.
 
 Notwithstanding several directives from the state   to ensure incident-free elections, the ground reality appears to be worse. So far, four persons have been murdered either due to political rivalry in the run-up to the polls or during post-poll violence. While a BJP worker was allegedly gunned down at   in Dhenkanal district before the elections, a political supporter was killed at Niali and a woman was hacked to death in Gajapati district during post-poll violence on Tuesday. 
 
 "We have directed police to prevent snatching of ballot papers and vote boxes. We hope the remaining phases of the elections do not witness such problems," said state election commissioner  . 
 
 The election commission re-polling in 62 booths owing to violence, involving snatching of ballot papers and boxes during first phase election on Monday. "In the second phase also we found disruption in elections at some places due to violence," Senapati said. 
 
 At most places, violence took place after counting of votes. "Unlike the general elections, the rural polls involved leaders of grassroots, leading to more flow of money. Since crores of rupees are coming to panchayats these days from the Centre, all parties are leaving no stone unturned to win seats," said Malaya Mohanty, a lawyer. 
 
 BJP believe the violence is likely to rise in the coming days as the ruling BJD received a jolt in the last two phases of elections. "We apprehend the BJD might misuse the power and resort to violence after our party performed well in the first two phases. We have already drawn the attention of the election commission. At most places, BJD supporters were responsible for the violence," said BJP spokesperson Sajjan Sharma.
 
 BJD denied the charges. "Our party continues to be the no. 1. Our political rivals are playing mischief at many booths and shifting the blame on us," said BJD spokesperson Sasi Bhusan Behera.
 
 Police said only stray incidencts of violence were reported in the last two phases. "We have successfully managed to conduct the polls peacefully at many places. In the first phase, we have information that violence was reported from 23 booths out of nearly 23,900 booths. In the second phase, the number of violent incidents could be even less. So far, no incidents of major violence like booth capturing or rigging have been reported," ADG (law and order)   told TOI.
 
