LUCKNOW/JALAUN: The political rivalry between Prime Minister   and BSP chief   turned uncharacteristic on Monday when with the two leaders directed personal barbs at each other. Modi termed Mayawati's   as ‘Behenji Sampatti Party’, while the BSP chief shot back punning on the initials of the PM’s name—Narendra Damodar Modi—changing it “Mr Negative Dalit Man”.

 Addressing a rally in Orai (Jalaun), Modi mocked at Mayawati's opposition to note ban saying BSP is no longer Bahujan Samaj Partybut ‘Behenji Sampatti Party’, in an apparent allegation that Mayawati amassed immense wealth through corruption. He said those who amass wealth for themselves can never solve the problems of people. 
 
 “Where has BSP reached today...when I announced note ban on November 8 last year, arch-rivals SP and BSP, who never see eye-to-eye, came together...I was amazed when I launched war against corruption and asked for details of black money. They came together and all including the Congress started speaking the same language,” Modi said.
 
 He said the main concern of political parties of Uttar Pradesh was not note ban but that they did not get enough time to stash away the ill-gotten money. “She (Mayawati) alleges that government was ill-prepared. Was it the government or it was you who was not prepared? Mayawati said one week should have been given (before implementing note ban)...Mulayam said the same,” said Modi. 
 
 The PM also said that when money started getting deposited in banks, Mayawati started asking why it was only during election that the account of her brother (Anand Kumar) was made public. 
 
 Mayawati was quick to retort at an election rally in Sultanpur, saying that Modi did not know that BSP is a movement first and then a political party. “I have dedicated my entire life for empowering dalits, deprived and the Muslims,” she said, adding that it was the weaker section which considered her as a big “sampatti (asset)” for them. “The PM has compelled me to define Narendra Damodardas Modi as ‘Mr Negative Dalit Man’ considering his work and behaviour,” Mayawati said, adding that the PM does not like common people making small contributions to run the BSP movement.
 
 Mayawati said the PM was perturbed with the growing popularity of BSP and was therefore indulging in cheap publicity and indulging in petty talk about BSP leadership. “He (Modi) is an expert in jumlebaazi (rhetoric) but when he will get tit-for-tat he will forget it all,” she said.
 
