KOCHI: There would be no cancellation of   or trimming the number of trips in the city when the Kochi   begins operations between Aluva and Palarivattom.

 Private bus operators said in the initial stage there wouldn’t be any rerouting or disruptions in services. “However, as   (KMRL) extends service to Ernakulam (Maharaja’s College) and later to Pettah and Tripunithura, 166 city services operating between Aluva and Tripunithura would be taken off the roads,” said K B Suneer, district secretary, private bus operators association ( ).
 
 Regular commuters who travel along the Metro corridor are a worried lot. They fear their travelling expenses would shoot up if bus services are curtailed. Currently KMRL has fixed a fare of Rs 60 for travelling from Aluva to Pettah.
 
 “If private buses and ordinary KSRTC buses are pulled out of the roads it would make commuting in Kochi an expensive affair. It seems there are plans to operate KURTC’s a/c buses linking Metro stations. This could also prove a burden for ordinary folks as a/c buses charge higher fares,” said Salila PJ, an employee of a private company.
 
 While it is possible for those travelling to get down at bus bays closer to their destinations, most Metro commuters will need feeder services. “People will be forced to take autorickshaws, taxis or other modes of transport to reach their destination after getting down at Metro stations. In short, regular commuters will have to shell out extra money for these services. Such expenses might not be an issue to those belonging to the high income category,” said James Chacko, a shop owner.
 
 The private bus owners said they have raised the issue with KMRL and stated the need to allow them to operate along the Metro corridor. Suneer said that as roads along the Metro route has been widened it would be possible for the buses to cover the distance from Aluva to   within an hour.
 
 “In the initial days, people from other districts will come down to travel in Metro in order to get a feel of it. Youngsters will crowd Metro stations. But after this phase Metro will require regular commuters,” added Suneer. It would be a great challenge to make people used to the comfort of their cars to opt the Metro, he said.
 
 It is being pointed out that rescheduling and rerouting of private buses would be done only after getting approvals from the state government. The private bus operators’ association said it would be a time-consuming process and the government has to enact the Unified Metropolitan Transport Authority Act. 
 
 The PBOA said seven societies have been formed for operating private buses in the city. These societies together will operate 1,000 buses. Suneer said a co-ordination committee to facilitate smooth functioning of these societies has been formed.
 
