BHOPAL: The   has found a way to get around the   — by replacing the  . And then there some willing to bulldoze the law for might of way on the road.

 Day 1 of the   to ban beacons on vehicles of   had a mixed response — while the bigger netas played follow-the-chief-minister and removed lal-battis, as did senior bureaucrats, lower-level politicians clung their symbols of status.
 
 Quite a few went for the fig-leaf approach and had the beacons covered, but some that grudgingly followed CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s example planted hooters and sirens on their cars as the new VIP symbol, although it is illegal under the Motor Vehicles Act.
 
 Only emergency vehicles can use beacons and hooters, said officials.
 
 What makes it all the more confusing is that RTO officials and traffic cops say their hands are tied. They say they are still waiting for an official guideline on what action to take against those violating the beacon ban. Thanks to the muddle, you could still see cars with beacons, covered or not. Many of them were seen at parking lots of malls and in front of government offices.
 
 Bhopal ARTO Sanjay Tiwari told TOI that there is no intimation regarding the ban on beacons and the penalty for defaulters. “We have not received any notification in this regard. I can comment on it only after receiving any instruction,” he said.
 
 Asked about the use of sirens by some politicians and bureaucrats, Tiwari said, “Only the transport department and police have the right to use hooters. No one else can. We will fine vehicles using hooters Rs 5,000 each.”
 
 Even traffic cops were confused. ASP-traffic Sameer Yadav refused to comment, saying he would speak “only after receiving the guidelines”.
 
 Officials using the beacon also ducked behind this argument. “People removed beacons voluntarily after the announcement made by PM Narendra Modi. The rule was to be implemented from May 1. I have not received any intimation and till then if anyone uses the beacon, I do not think there is anything wrong,” a senior bureaucrat told TOI, asking not to be named. “We are clueless,” he said.
 
 The sight of hooters upset citizens who welcomed the beacon ban. “Beacons are gone, but what about hooters and sirens? Why are they being used by so-called VIPs? Traffic cops should fine these people to send out a message,” said Vineet Sharma, a private firm employee. “It’s irritating when vehicles blaring sirens tailgate you and try to overtake even on narrow roads. Sirens have no use, apart from emergency vehicles, and only add to noise pollution. Those using it should be penalised.”
 
 In December 2013, a bench of Justice G S Singhvi and Justice C Nagappan had directed states to amend the Motor Vehicle Rules to restrict the use of the red beacon and impose “exemplary fine” on those who misuse it. The court said that only constitutional authorities would be allowed to use the red beacon.
 
