Kolkata: The Calcutta high court on Wednesday told the Bengal government that it could not block a citizen’s constitutional right to practise religion on the mere assumption that there could be disruption of law and order. “Let them (Hindus and Muslims) live in harmony, do not create a line between them,” Acting Chief Justice Rakesh Tiwary said, referring to the government’s decision to disallow the immersion of Durga idols on October 1, when Muharram would be observed.

 The acting chief justice asked the state government to provide a “concrete ground” for its decision to stop immersion of Durga idols after 10pm on September 30 (Vijaya Dashami day) and disallow it completely on Oct-ober 1. “The administration is hiding its inability by imp-osing restrictions,” he said.
 
 The bench hearing three PILs, which have challenged the restrictions imposed on immersion of idols at the end of the Durga Puja festival, also includes Justice Harish Tandon. It is expected to give its verdict on the issue on Thursday. But its observations on Wednesday were cat-egorical: a mere assumption that a law-and-order situation might arise because Dashami and Muharram fell on consecutive days could not be the basis of imposing curbs on immersion timings.
 
 “If you say there is complete harmony, are you (the state administration) not creating a line of division between the two communities by your action?” asked Justice Tandon.
 
 “People have the right to practise their religious activities, whichever community they may be from, and the state cannot put restrictions unless it has a concrete ground to believe that two communities cannot live together,” the acting chief justice said. “You must clarify why are you apprehending a law-and-order situation,” the bench told state advocate general Kishore Dutta.
 
 The acting chief justice also reminded the AG: “The CM is saying that (communal) harmony in Bengal is an example for others, and this is what is happening?”
 
 “If a superintendent of police thinks that any breach of peace can happen, he has to inform the district magistrate. The DM has to say it in writing. Where is that? If you presume a breach of peace, then it is unfortunate. We too have Muslim friends. If the two communities are in harmony why create a wedge?” the bench asked.
 
 “Why cannot two communities observe (religious occasions) together if no untoward incident has happened in the past?” the bench said. The administration could regulate the routes for the immersion processions to follow and those through which the Muharram Taziya processions could pass, it suggested.
 
 “Public order and law-and-order are administrative issues,” Dutta submitted, while claiming that the court’s interference in it would amount to trudging on the administration’s domain.
 
 “In the interest of maintaining law-and-order and in order to prevent an untoward incident, the administration can regulate a religious congregation or procession,” the advocate-general submitted. “It is a preventive action to rule out any possibility of a law-and-order situation,” he said.
 
 The court observed that it was not disputing the state’s right to regulate but the administration could not restrict the observance of one’s religious rights. “We are asking you to eliminate the element of arbitrariness and provide a concrete ground for your action,” the bench said.
 
 
