Instead of five interlaced circles, this ‘Olympic’ logo looks more like a take on Lamborghini’s raging bull. 

 Emblazoned on a “pure gold” trophy worth Rs 30 lakh, it shows a racing bull with a tiny cart. Around the rustic stadium are enlarged photos of bulls charging wildly, their turban-sporting jockeys hanging on. There’s just one tiny problem at the ongoing Kila Raipur   Festival — there are no real bulls here. 
 
 Every winter, Kila Raipur, a village around 20km from Ludhiana, hosts a sports festival that’s come to be known as the ‘Rural Olympics’. But ever since the Supreme Court banned bovines from any sort of sporting activity in May 2014, the dry-fruit-fed speedsters — once the centrepieces of this sporting gala — have been ploughing fields and chewing on the fact that horses now serve as their stunt doubles and take home their share of the prize money. On Friday, the first day of the 81st edition of the event at Kila   — a Ludhiana village still warm from selfies with   and Salman who shot films here — it was clear what happens when a star leaves the ecosystem. 
 
 Instead of lakhs of villagers crammed into the 40,000-seater Grewal stadium, there were only a smattering of onlookers. This, despite the usual roster of colourful contests — a few men held up tractor tyres to win Rs 1,000, a beefy gym owner lifted dumbbells to warn against drug use, and in the dog race, 20-odd imported greyhounds chased a dead rabbit stuffed with cotton down a 400m course. In a corner, 60-year-old Charanjeet Singh and his bearded mates, all dressed in pathani suits and festive mojris, cheered like kids for these hounds. Till three years ago, these former bullock-cart jockeys were the ones racing down the same course in a car drawn by two dust-raising Nagori bulls. “At that time, you could never find a place to sit,” said Charanjeet Singh of Bhaini Rora village, pointing to the empty seats. This year, in the wake of Tamil Nadu passing an ordinance to allow the bulltaming sport of jallikattu, and the Karnataka assembly passing an amendment bill to legalise kambala, the Grewal Sports Association (GSA) — which organises festival — hoped to revive its showpiece event. But the pleas of the committee members fell on deaf ears. “The governor has granted us a meeting but sadly, that’s on the day after the event ends,” said  , secretary of  .
 
