NAVI MUMBAI: The Navi Mumbai   project has cleared yet another hurdle at a spot near   station, which will help   expedite work in a run-up to the proposed 2018 flag-off. Cidco commenced excavation work on Wednesday to lay two concrete foundations on both sides of the   tracks across Panvel-Diva rail line for connecting the stalled portion of the elevated line since Central Railway, after inordinate delay, has given its initial nod for the stage-I of the civil work inside its boundary.

 Cidco officials said the remaining four permissions at this spot will follow in the next few days once the design of the overhead rail bridge is approved. 
 
 Talking to TOI, Sunil Darade, chief engineer, Cidco, said, “Railway’s permission to construct the bridge over the tracks near Taloja station had been pending for a long time. We finally got the first permission to carry out civil work inside the railway boundary. This is a critical spot in the entire 11-km stretch metro line due to the railway crossing. We kicked off excavation work to construct concrete foundations for laying the gigantic steel structure weighing 1,200 tonnes over the tracks.”
 
 Based on the design submitted to Central Railway, Cidco will execute the metro over bridge on the tracks in four stages for which separate permissions have been sought. The first phase will have a 48-meter concrete span, followed by two 60-meter concrete spans on either side of the tracks to be laid in the second and third stages, respectively. 
 
 “The fourth stage will include installation of a 100-meter long steel structure over the tracks. We are expecting the remaining approvals soon,” said an official.
 
 Cidco has commissioned a 65-meter high pylon to elevate the existing high-tension line coming in the way of the metro line at  . 
 
 “We have almost completed the civil work for shifting of high-tension line and carried out most of the pending work on the viaduct portion across Sion-Panvel highway, which will be complete by this month end. Coaches have already been made in Zhuzhou, China, and are on factory trial run before being shifted to the depot any time now,” said an official.
 
 
