NAGPUR: Going by the   (IMD) forecast, the city will witness the second coldest Holi in last five year on Monday, with the minimum temperature expected to be around 17 degree. The coolest Holi was in 2015 at 15 degree. The IMD has also predicted rainfall at isolated places across   a day after Holi.

 The weatherman said ‘the western disturbance is causing upper cyclonic circulation in Northwest region, hence there is a dip in temperature and there could be slight rainfall for couple of days. Dry weather is likely to prevail across Vidarbha,   and Chhattisgarh in coming days”.
 
 According to past data, city’s minimum temperature on the day of Holi usually ranges between 18 and 21 degree and the maximum temperature ranges between 35 and 39. Only once has temperature gone this low earlier, on March 6, 2015, when the minimum temperature was 15 degree and maximum temperature was also a low of 31.4 degree.
 
 Even as IMD predicted the minimum temperature on Monday to be 17 degree and maximum at 34 degree,   Weather (Nagpur) predicted minimum temperature to be 16 degree and maximum temperature to be 32 degree. According to BBC, the temperature will be around 16 degree on the intervening night of Sunday and Monday. The day of Holi is likely to start with 21 degree temperature at 8.30am, with temperature expected to peak at 2.30pm at 32 degree.
 
 Even after the evening rainfall on March 7 and 8, there was no respite in day and night temperature. Instead, the minimum temperature went up to 21 degree, two notches above normal, on March 9.
 
 After this the minimum temperature started going down gradually and reached 17.8 degree (-1) on March 11, further dipping to 17.1 degree (-2) a day later. The city’s minimum temperature will continue in the same range.
 
 IMD forecast says there is a possibility of rainfall occurring at isolated placed at Vidarbha on March 14 and 16, while at scattered places on March 15. Talking of the city specifically, IMD predicted possibility of development of thunder or lightning on March 16, while on March 17 there could be partly cloudy skies with possibility of rain or thunderstorm.
 
 The rainfall will not, however, affect minimum or maximum temperature.
 
