LONDON: Portuguese couple Inés São Pedro and Filipe have no idea that the flat they rented two months ago is steeped in history. Nobody told them that this address -on  's 21 High Street -was once home to the family of Margaret Elizabeth Noble, later christened   by Swami Vivekananda.

 They also don't know that British Heritage will commemorate the birth anniversary of Sister Nivedita by installing the prestigious   there in the presence of West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee.
 
 The two other tenants of the building weren't around when TOI visited the house. But the landlord was aware of the history.
 
 “A lady had got in touch with me a year ago. That was when I got to know about Sister Nivedita having lived there," said Pritin Patel, who had bought the property some 20 years ago. “I shared the news with some people in my family too. I'm told the plaque will be installed on the wall between two large windows."
 
 Earlier photos of the address show The Giraffe Café on the ground floor. Today, that space is a bustling coffee shop called Brew. The only Bengal connection of this coffee shop is that the menu card shows `Bengali Aubergine' as a speciality dish. Otherwise, nobody at the café is aware of anything to do with Bengal or Sister Nivedita. “I didn't know this building has so much of historical significance," said waitress Phoebe Victory, in between attending her customers.
 
 Inés is more curious and keen to know about Sister Nivedita. “My husband is an IT professional. I am looking for a job. Apart from ours, there are two other flats. One has a Spanish couple; the other is rented by another woman. The façade is still the same as it was during the 19th century. But the décor inside looks very modern," she said, doing a quick Google search about Sister Nivedita.
 
 Sarada Basu, the London-based science teacher at Catholic Boys School who took the initiative to apply to British Heritage for installing the plaque, is excited. “The British census of 1901 mentions that it was in this house in 1901 where Acharya Jagadish Chandra Bose and wife Abala Bose had come to stay. Swami Vivekananda had rented a house on 35 Woodside, a 15-minute walk from this house. He used to walk up the hill from there to visit the Noble residence," Basu said.
 
 That house still remains, though the interiors have been changed.There are two other houses in Wimbledon where Sister Nivedita had set up schools. The address of one is 10 Berkeley Place. Initially, the plan was to install the plaque there.
 
 “But one house now has eight flats. It was difficult to get everyone's consent to install the plaque there," Basu explained.
 
 “In 2003, the BBC had done a documentary on Sister Nivedita, where parallels were drawn with the form of Kali (the imagery of death and destruction) and IRA terrorism and how it may be influencing suicide bombers in Sri Lanka. It was unfair to be clubbing the freedom struggle movement with terrorism. Many discouraged me saying the British Heritage might not want to honour her with a Blue Plaque. But I still went ahead and got four applications to be sent by four people from different places."
 
 Finally, the nod came and a plaque that describes her as `Educationalist and campaigner of Indian Freedom Movement' will be installed in November. “It was earlier supposed to be installed on her birth anniversary on October 28. Due to some reasons, the date has been shifted to November. Mamata Banerjee will be the keynote speaker of the event that will be held at the Wimbledon Library," Basu said.
 
