 hasn't been under too much pressure as a captain at home since he took over the Test reins in 2014-15. The Australia series, for the first time, has put the 28-year-old in a tight corner and there are signs that he is feeling the heat. Kohli has already moved away from his five-bowler theory, and on Sunday, there were some decisions which can come under scrutiny. On a pitch where the margins are less, a 48-run lead is handy and if Australia can stretch it to 100, India will find it extremely difficult on this deteriorating track. 

 TOI takes a look at some of the baffling captaincy decisions on Sunday that can have far-reaching impact in this series.
 
 
 
 
 Jadeja has been a matchwinner for India, especially on pitches which turn. But on a track where the spinners were calling the shots, the left-armer got three overs in the first three hours of the day, in which he got   out. Jadeja was again given the ball only an hour after lunch and he got two more wickets off nine, only to be taken out of the attack after tea, when Australia were under pressure. “It's a little perplexing, I don't see any logic why Jadeja was given only 16 overs through the day... But then, it's difficult to read Virat sometimes, he has his own ideas which don't always match ours,” former India keeper Deep Dasgupta, who is one of the commentators for the series, told TOI.
 
 What could have prompted Virat to underbowl Jadeja was the fact that two lefthanders were at the middle. But then, Jadeja knows how to bowl at left-handers and is fresh off a series where he got Alastair Cook out six times. “On a pitch like this, the ball coming in is extremely dangerous. So `left-handers play left-arm spinners well' theory doesn't exactly work either,” Dasgupta said.
 
 The captain though, found a backer in  , who felt it might have been because Umesh Yadav and   were bowling well. “They were creating opportunities and that is probably the reason why Virat chose to stick with them from one end,” Vengsarkar reasoned.
 
 But there wasn't too much explanation as to why Jadeja was given only four overs after tea and was replaced by part-timer Karun Nair just as new man Mitchell Starc walked in towards the end of the day.“Again, I don't know why he did that, it's inexplicable,” Dasgupta said.
 
 
 
 
 India used it thrice on Sunday and got it wrong on all three occasions. Dasgupta, a former Bengal captain, feels it's more on   than Virat. “Don't blame Virat for that, Wriddhiman has to be more assertive about these decisions if India are to get better with DRS. It's the keeper's call,” the former keeper said.
 
 
 
 
 India took the new ball in the 93rd over, when Australia were 192-5, only three ahead of India. It immediately released the pressure on Australia and in the next 13.5 overs that followed, Australia scored at a rate of over three per over, while through the day their run rate was a shade over two. It could be noted that Kohli's decision to take the new ball in the Pune Test with the last Australia pair batting cost India 50 runs which proved to be extremely costly.
 
 One hopes a similar situation doesn't arise at Chinnaswamy and India are in a position to make a fight of it on Monday morning.
 
