KOLHAPUR: The state transport corporation is finding it difficult to stay on course with a cumulative net loss of Rs 2712 crore in last five years.

 The   ( ) is one of the largest public transport utilities in India having fleet of 18,000 active buses and 60 lakh daily passengers. But it has been suffering from financial losses due to expenditure on salaries, fuel and passenger tax charged by the state government. 
 
 Abhijeet Bhosale, assistant public relation officer of central office of MSRTC, said the corporation has registered cumulative loss of Rs 2,214 crore in last five years and expecting net loss around Rs 498 crore for the financial year 2017-18. The state transport corporation is envisaging expenditure of Rs 9,208 crore as against revenue of Rs 8,710 crore in the next fiscal. 
 
 “The payment of salaries, expenses on fuel and payment of passenger tax to the state government make for almost 90% of the total expenses of the corporation. After that, we are left with just 10% amount for capital expenditure and expenses. The good thing is that state government returns 10% of the passenger tax in the form of investment,” he said. 
 
 Another official in   division said, “The passenger tax is another concern. There is no need to charge passenger tax from MSRTC as it is government establishment. It could save the big amount and reduce net losses.”
 
 The official in MSRTC Kolhapur division said the corporation had been suffering the losses due to “mismanagement and lack of professional attitude.”
 
 “Earlier, the MSRTC bus service was only an option for passengers. But now, passengers have other modes of transportation. MSRTC has failed to acquire new business skills to face the competitive environment. It continues to act like another government establishment,” he said.
 
 He felt that the state transport utility, which once ruled Mumbai, Pune, Nasik, Thane, Aurangabad, Solapur and Kolhapur, has lost its ground to private operators in these important cities.
 
