In the latest episode of  , Sodhi is seen talking to the rest of Gokuldham men on a video call and tells them that he is having a lot of fun there.
 
  Gokudham members in Goa enjoy water sports such as para sailing, jet ski one by one, when   comes from behind and starts shouting at Tapu for the surprise. He says that his stomach is filled with salty water, when Tapu asks him to eat salt less food for the day, making everyone laugh. The thief is seen following them to the beaches as well.
  
  Sodhi goes to Bhide and says that they should do ‘party sharty’ (there code word for drinking alcohol) and also informs him that he has already set things right for them to sneak out and party without letting anyone know. Roshan overhears their conversation.
  
  On their way, Bhide and Sodhi see a girl sitting with her umbrella and think of fixing her up with  . They walk up to her and talk to her. She introduces herself as a Russian journalist. She tells them that she is not dating anyone and is unmarried.
  
  Sodhi calls up Popatlal and talks to him over video chat and tells him about the girl. Popatlal then talks to Totu through video call and asks her is she would get married to him, but she refuses and says that she wants to become a sadhvi in Haridwar and if he would accompany her as a sadhu for the rest of his life. Popatlal disagrees with her and asks her to hand over the phone to Bhide. The foreigner sitting next to Totu tells Bhide and Sodhi that she wants to get married. The woman tells him that she has five husbands already and if Popatlal would be her sixth husband. He gets shocked on learning that the woman wants to set a record of having most husbands in her life.
  
  
 
  
  Sodhi is talking to Bhide on the phone telling him that the drinks are really cheap in Goa when Roshan listens to his conversation and starts questioning her. Roshan goes to Madhvi's room and tells her about all that happened and tells her that she overheard her husband's conversation with Bhide.
  
  They go to Tapu's room and the latter tells them that Champaklal has also gone with them. Madhvi and Roshan see Bhide, Sodhi and Champaklal drinking at the bar. They are shocked to see Chacha ji having fun with them. While they are having fun, Madhvi and Roshan come there.
  
  Keep watching this space for more updates on Taarak Mehta Ka Ooltah Chashmah.
