GURUGRAM:   students appearing for the class 12   exam on Thursday found themselves in spot of bother after they had to face a   question paper. According to the students the paper was too technical and hardly had any direct questions. The paper, which the students found to be lengthy, had 14 questions on case studies out of the total 25.

 Ranvijay, who studies in Suncity School, was one of those students who had a tough time finishing the paper. According to Ranvijay it was a difficult paper which was more application based. 
 
 “There were hardly any direct questions. Most them of were case studies. It is not easy to answer a case study. It takes a lot of time. Nearly all my classmates felt the same way, ” said Ranvijay
 
 A particular question, carrying 6 marks, served as a googly for most of the students. The question confused most of the students who were not sure how to approach the particular question.
 
 “There was this one particular question from the chapter ‘Organising’ that got the whole classroom divided. One group of students said the question was based on the ‘Delegation’ topic while the other half believed it was based on ‘Decentralisation’. They are different concepts but there are many similarities, ” said Vishu Surana of Delhi Public School, Sushant Lok.
 
 There were also students who welcomed this unexpected question pattern and style.
 
 Sidakpreet Singh of Delhi Public School, Sector 45 said he was comfortable with most of the questions and pointed out there was trick to answer the questions
 
 “The paper was more conceptual. I am not good with memorising my answers so I didn’t mind the case study questions. Examiners framed the questions to confuse us. The way to go was to read the questions first and then the paragraph. My exam went well, ” said Sidakpreet 
 
 The trickier questions and recurring case studies didn’t go down well with the students. 
 
 “The paper was quite lengthy. There was a lot of confusion in the exam hall. No straightforward questions made life more difficult. My paper was not as good as I was expecting it to be. My classmates also said they were expecting the paper to be little easier,” said Aarya Dewan of Delhi Public School, Sector 45.
 
 
