NAGPUR:   was 22 when he brought his first tie, in 1988. Little did he know then that he would go on to hold a record for having the largest collection of ties owned by any Indian. Currently, he possesses nearly 4,000 neck ties, an investment that he claims is worth Rs 22 lakh!

 A manager at Punjab and Sind bank, Sharma recounts how ties became a passion. “I was from a lower middle class family. I was once told that a tie is an ornament for the personality. I asked my friend to teach me how to wear it. He asked me to purchase a tie first. That’s how it began.”
 
 After learning to tie the   knot, Sharma brought another tie the next month, and then the next. Now, he holds a record for not repeating a single tie since 2006.
 
 Popularly called the ‘tie-man’, he displayed his prowess by tying the Windsor knot with a neck tie in 17.91 seconds in December 2013, the fastest any person has achieved so far. 
 
 His collection of ties lies neatly packed in their covers, filling eight cartons in his house. “I also have ties from Korea, America and China, most of which were given as gift to me by friends and acquaintances,” he says, adding that he even aspires to create a tie museum.
 
 Sharma has tried his hand at motor biking and underwater swimming, carving a niche for himself there too. As part of Sky High Adventure Club, Sharma rode from Kanyakumari to a height of 18,380 feet to Khardung La Road, near Ladakh in 2013. He has also remained underwater without breathing for 109 seconds.
 
 In 2010, in Ahmedabad’s ‘Swarnim Bharat’ chess event flagged off by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to spread awareness about chess, the Sharma family gave an inspiring display of their chess prowess. Sharma, his 10-year-old son, 16-year-old daughter and wife played and won 20 games of chess each against 20 players simultaneously.
 
 Sharma has a total of 54 records to his name, including two Guinness world records, two Limca world records, and an array of others, including   record, Asia book of record, India book of national records, world records of India and URF, Calcutta.
 
 
