NEW DELHI: Lieutenant governor   has ordered cancellation of the allotment of a bungalow on Rouse Avenue to   for its office after receiving a response from the PWD of Delhi government on the issue. This follows submission of the   report on the government’s decisions which had bypassed former LG Najeeb Jung’s approval.

 Sources claimed PWD has observed that the allotment was indeed in violation of norms. Following this, approval for cancellation of allotment was ordered. However, government sources denied that the PWD had made any such observation, claiming that it had only sent a file for post-facto approval late last year. They wondered why the LG’s office was waking up after such a long time and questioned the timing of the Shunglu Committee report being leaked. They indicated that the cancellation may be challenged in court.
 
 Sanjay Singh of the party alleged that the decision to cancel the allotment was taken at the behest of the BJP-led Centre. “It is unjust and unfortunate and against democratic values,” he said. He pointed out how many ministerial bungalows had been allotted to political parties, including BJP and Congress.
 
 At a public meeting in Nangloi, chief minister   blamed BJP for the move. “Thirty minutes ago, I learnt that LG and BJP have put a lock at AAP's office. They want to shut down our office," he said. Kejriwal said Centre first got a CBI raid conducted against him but found nothing. “Then they said they would recover Rs 97 crore from me. I don't even have 97 rupees... My only fault was that I worked for people's welfare.” 
 
 The Shunglu committee has pointed out that the chief secretary circulated a decision of the cabinet on October 10, 2015, approving allotment of land to political parties for construction of offices. The cabinet note said the government “feels that there is an elected government in the National Capital Territory of Delhi and it has the prerogative to frame its own guidelines to allot land to the political parties having their representation in the Delhi legislative assembly”.
 
 The committee report said that since land is a reserved subject, the decision should be declared null and void.
 
 It also pointed out that the decision had approved allotment of a building/bungalow, meanwhile, till land could be allotted and a building constructed for a period of at least five years. “It is clear that this decision to allot land to political parties was really to validate allotment of government accommodation to AAP and nothing more because it is common ground that the elected government does not have the power to deal with the subject of land, let alone allot it,” observed the committee.
 
 This accommodation was occupied by AAP on January 25, 2016, and fully furnished as per entitlement of a minister, says the report. There was no mention of any rent.
 
 AAP members allege that a party elected with a thumping majority was being subjected to gross discrimination. “14 Pant Marg, which was a minister’s residence, was allotted to BJP to run its state office. The land meant for a school building at ITO was also allotted to BJP by the former LG. 24  , also a minister’s bungalow, was allotted to Congress for its office while Youth Congress set up its office on Raisina Road. The place from where BJP’s national office functions was also a minister’s bungalow,” pointed out Sanjay Singh.
 
 Singh dared the Centre to ask the Election Commission to cancel the registration of AAP and let only one party, BJP, function in the country. “What is our fault? Did we do any wrong by giving free water and electricity at half the rate to people? Are we being punished for opening mohalla clinics which are being praised in USA,” he asked.
 
 With the decision coming after AAP’s announcement to waive house tax if it wins in the municipal elections, Singh said that was the reason for this decision. He also alleged that the CBI cases lodged against Delhi government ministers were politically motivated.
 
 “People will respond to LG’s decision in the municipal elections,” he said.
 
 AAP’s Delhi convenor, Dilip Pandey, said integrity, patriotism and honesty helped AAP win the assembly elections. “BJP can never snatch these values from us.”
 
 
