GHAZIABAD: You will no longer have to jostle your way through a crowded first floor to reach the platforms of  . 

 Ticket counters at Blue line’s terminal station in   were shifted to the ground floor on Monday, enabling the Metro security streamline entry into the station. 
 
 Navigating the chaotic first floor was a daily torment for commuters, more so in hours that normally see a footfall surge, because queues for tickets and security checks would run into one another. This led to confusion, frayed tempers and people jumping queues. CISF personnel tried but could never quite bring order to the mess. 
 
 That will change now because the first floor will no longer see two sets of queues. The ticket counters and vending machines on the ground floor were thrown open on Monday and the difference on the first floor was instantly visible. 
 
 “The ticketing counters have now been shifted near the ATMs for the convenience of the commuters,” said a   spokesperson. “The commuter rush was unmanageable during peak hours as people would queue up near the ticketing counters as well as the entry and exit gates. The four ATMs on the ground floor, that were earlier facing each other, have now been re-installed in a linear fashion. One side of the foyer is for tickets and the other is reserved for ATMs.”
 
 Besides, the distance between the two sets of AFC (automatic fare collection) gates used for entry and exit on the first floor has been increased from 10 feet to 27 feet to decongest the space. The two customer care kiosks have also been moved much further to expand the area.
 
 “Vaishali being a terminal station needed these changes more than any other station. It is also bigger in terms of area, so it was easier to carry out the re-installation work. We will collect feedback from commuters to understand if the move is helping them or not,” the DMRC official said.   station has an average footfall of 45,000 a day. 
 
 Priyanka Chauhan, a daily commuter who travels from   to Vaishali, welcomed the move. “The two sets of queues will not happen anymore,” she said. Rajat Wadhwa, another daily commuter, added, “The first floor was always cluttered. I hope this solve the problem.” 
 
 
