AHMEDABAD: Seven years ago, when Kajal, then 9, came to live at her shanty,   didn’t know how to feed the extra mouth. Her husband had abandoned her a decade ago, and Kushwaha faced her own struggles to raise her own kids –  . She pulled through by working as a   in various units in  .

 But Kajal was her daughter Ravina’s best friend, and her father, too, had abandoned her. Looking into her eyes, Kushwaha found the same pain borne in the hearts of her children. So, she decided the family would shelter her till further developments. That’s how Kajal found her new mother.
 
 “Ever since she came to my family, the thought of her leaving us has never crossed my mind,” said Kushwaha about Kajal. “Today, she is 16, and one of the brightest of my kids.”
 
 But that was not all. Two years after Kajal had started living in the family, a five-year-old girl came knocking on Kushwaha’s door, asking for shelter. Kushwaha says that to date, there is no information on the background of the girl, who had forgotten even her name. The family named her Ankita, and also embraced her. Today, Ankita has reached 14 years.
 
 “The girls have been lucky for me,” says Kushwaha. “I had started working extra to make ends meet. But after their arrival, I got a job as security guard at Kankaria Lakefront. Now, I am a security guard at the LG Hospital.”
 
 “We have shifted to a better residence in Trikampura and my 17-year-old son has also started working in Vatva GIDC to help me,” Kushwaha added.
 
 Ankita, who aspires to be a teacher, says that Kushwaha is more than a mother for her. “She is a true role model for Mother’s Day as her kindness knows no limits,” said Ankita. “I don’t know where I would have been, if I had not been accepted by her and her family with open arms,” she added.
 
 Mother Courage & her dreams 
 
 For Trupti Nagar, 39, a resident of Maninagar East, when problems came, it came from all quarters. Three years ago, her husband, Arvind, went missing, hounded by moneylenders. Trupti was suddenly required to shoulder the burden of both parents for her two daughters, Devanshi, 14, and Nashita, 12. Her in-laws were ill. “For the past three years, she has been preparing snacks to be delivered to various eastern city areas and also works at a handicrafts unit that makes wall hangings,” said Harshad Patel, a social worker. “She took it upon herself to look after her in-laws.” Trupti says one child wants to become an airhostess and the other, a nurse.
 
