GHAZIABAD: A timber businessman was shot dead right outside his shop in Pasonda,  , near Karan Gate police chowki around 11am on Friday.

 The victim, identified as   Ali (40), was shot at least six times in his chest and his head by two bike-borne assailants, who were allegedly his neighbours with a history of rivalry with him over the plot on which his shop is located. The body of Ali’s was found half inside a small room used as a store. It appeared Ali was trying to escape from his killers when he was shot inside the room.
 
 Ali succumbed to his injuries on the way to Narendra Mohan Hospital, Mohan Nagar, where he was declared brought dead. The body was sent for a postmortem.
 
 At the time of the shooting, the victim was with his maternal uncle’s son   alias  , who was said to have been chased away by the assailants who parked their black Pulsar bike outside the shop premises and walked through the gate asking for Ali, according to some eyewitnesses.
 
 Ikramuddin, a neighbour, said he heard the noise of ‘firecrackers’ when he was sitting outside his house with his family. “Soon after the noise I saw two men with their faces covered with helmets hurriedly coming out of Mohabbat’s store room on his shop plot and quickly driving away,” he said. According to neighbours and eyewitnesses, the assailants seemed to be their early 20s.
 
 Altamash Anwar, another neighbour of Ali, said, “They came up to the shop plot, parked their bike and went inside the shop premises loudly asking for Mohabbat. Just then, his cousin Abid ran out of the shop and we heard gunshots from inside. Then the assailants sped away on the bike towards the main road, which is half a kilometre from Karan Gate police chowki.”
 
 Speaking to TOI, Jitendra Singh, sub-inspector, Sahibabad police station, said, “We have recovered eight bullet shells from the spot but the victim had more than 12 bullet injuries on his body. The postmortem is still under way and we are awaiting the report for clarity.”
 
 The police further said that according to their source, even though two men who were riding a single bike entered the plot premises to kill the victim, another bike with two other accomplices perched on it was parked nearby as backup. “An FIR under sections 302 (murder) and 506 (criminal intimidation) has been filed against three suspects, namely, Hashim, Tahir and Naseem, while the fourth one remains unknown. All three of them were Mohabbat’s neighbours and Hashim had a history of rivalry with the victim regarding a piece of land,” Singh said.
 
 According to Rizwan (18), the victim’s elder son, there was brawl some time ago between his father and Hashim regarding the plot where the victim’s timber business has been operating out of for nearly three months. “Even though we have this shop on rent, Hashim claimed that the land belonged to him. He also threatened to kill my father,” Rizwan said.
 
 The victim, who is from a village in Baghpat district, is survived by wife Raeesa, sons Rizwan (18), Arif (15) and daughter Aarzoo (12).
 
 
