Vadodara: When the road behind the railway station was widened some months ago, the commuters had collectively heaved a sigh of relief. The single lane road known as Faramji Road had been witnessing traffic jams due to increasing vehicle flow and a fleet of auto rickshaws that blocked a major portion of the road. The chaos had only increased after some important trains began halting at the platform number 6 and the number of passengers exiting from the rear gate shot up. 

 After the road was widened, it was expected that the traffic flow will ease. But the stretch still witnesses utter chaos during the peak hours as auto rickshaws still block a portion of the two-lane road. During early mornings and evenings, dozens of autos are seen lined up on both sides of the road. As the passengers exit the railway station, the auto drivers literally block the gate and try to woo the passengers. 
 
 It not just causes inconvenience to the passengers but to the commuters who pass from the road. “Earlier, the road was a single lane.After road widening there is more space for vehicles. The stretch is yet to be developed completely. Once it is ready, the plan for solving the auto rickshaw issue will be implemented,” Manoj Sashidhar, police commissioner said. 
 
 “We are in talks with the railways and Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) for having a separate auto parking space on that road. Right now we are focusing on solving the traffic issue on the front side of the railway station. We will be able to focus on the rear stretch from next month,” Sashidhar added. What escalates the traffic congestion is that commuters visiting the shops and tea-joints near the railway station too park their vehicles on the road. 
 
 Auto drivers too echo the sentiments and say that if provided a proper parking space, they won’t have to park their vehicles on the road. 
 
 The civic body had to face lot of hurdles as it had to acquire a portion of the railway premises and private properties for widening the road that connects to Alkapuri and Rhino Circle Road. 
 
 
