CHANDIGARH: Taking suo motu notice in the case of a private school based in Sector-20 here, which failed to provide admit cards to around 15 of its students for board exams, and offered admission to students based on fake class XI pass certificates of a school based in Sector-8, the Chandigarh Commission for Protection of   (CCPCR) has summoned the school's principal and officials of the UT education department on March 21.

 “The school principal has been summoned at 4pm on Friday to give her statement on the issue, and officials of the UT education department have been called to find out what action they have taken,“ confirmed   from CCPCR.
 
 It was on March 9 that the education department had received a call from parents and students who claimed that at the last moment, the Sector-20 school refused to provide roll numbers to them. While arguments between school authorities and the parents lasted for almost an hour, officials from the education department intervened at around 10am that day. Later, the school provided the roll numbers, and students were able to appear for the exam.
 
 However, sensing irregularities, an inquiry was initiated by the UT education department, and the director   formed a committee headed by  , deputy district education officer.
 
 The committee visited the school the next day (March 10), and a report was submitted to the DSE that day, stating 'irregularities', TOI had reported last week. However, follo wing meetings for budget approval going on in Delhi since the beginning of the week, no action has been taken by the department yet, informed officials.
 
 A member from the committee informed that the condition and atmosphere of the school was also not satisfactory. “It did not look like a school. We sensed that students don't come there on a regular basis.There was no discipline or decorum. The students who had called the department abused the principal in front of everyone, which showed how the school was functioning.
 
 Also, the school failed proved to provide school leaving certificates of admitted students. The students alleged that the school gave admission based on fake pass certificates,“ said the member.
 
 Education department sources said they had recommended withdrawal of affiliation from the board and recognition from the education department, confirmed Sekhon. School authorities were not available for comment.
 
