JAIPUR: This monsoon, the picturesque ‘Monsoon Palace’ will be out of bounds for   

 As a precautionary measure, the forest department has restricted entry into the Sajjangarh Palace, Udaipur popularly known as ‘Monsoon Palace’ to prevent any untoward incident with the tourists. The crumbling monument built in 1884, for over a year been held together with ropes. 
 
 “In the absence of any restoration or repair work, this was the best that the government could do,” said a tourism stakeholder. 
 
 Perched on the top of a hill in the middle of a sanctuary, the over 133-year-old palace is crumbling by the day due to government apathy. The condition is such that the forest department had to 'tie' certain portions of the fort with a rope, just to hold them together.
 
 On September 2016, TOI had reported about the crumbling monument in a story, “A monument in Rajasthan held together by ropes”. Nearly a year has gone by but with so many   strewn around the state, it was of little concern for the Rajasthan government to restore the historical, ‘Monsoon Palace’ on war-footing. The fort even in this condition, earns the Rajasthan government over Rs 3 crore annually and attracts over 2 lakh domestic and foreign visitors.
 
 The government, though, couldn’t care less. But on the flip side, as a precautionary measure, the Rajasthan forest department has restricted entry into major portions of the palace. “Major portions of the palace that gave a picturesque view in monsoon are now out of bounds for the tourist. We were told that the fort was in a condition of disrepair and tourists were not safe, taken there,” said a tour operator.
 
 The picturesque palace, built in 1884 with white marble, has high turrets that have developed cracks in several places. One of the marble pillars in the fort can be seen ‘tied’ with a rope to the main structure so that it doesn’t fall off. Located on Bansdara peak of the Aravalli range at an elevation of 944m (3,100ft), the palace by the virtue of its location in the sanctuary comes under the administrative control of the forest department. Remarkably, the ingenious traditional rainwater harvesting system in the palace is still working and had collected three lakh litres of water last monsoon.
 
 In the past, letters have been written by  , CCF to the   warden and secretary tourism, apprising them of the situation and requesting them to take stock before it's too late. Five years back, the Amber Development & Management Authority AD&MA did restore part of the palace, the front facade and the falling railing. But the work was discontinued without completion, owing to frequent departmental transfers, in both forests and tourism.
 
