VISAKHAPATNAM: Amid uncertainty over the alliance with BJP for the 2019  , the  ,   (TDP)'s annual party gathering, gets underway in the   after a gap of 16 years on Saturday .

 Having hosted the threeday meeting way back in 2001, Vizag too has its own concerns. Primary among them being losing the tag as being the number one city in the Andhra region to Amaravati that is in the making as well as facing the threat of the port city being an IT hub slipping away from its hands.
 
 According to TDP sources, AP chief minister Chandrababu Naidu chose Vizag as the venue for this Mahanadu mainly to assure its residents that the development of Amaravati would not be at the cost of Vizag. 
 
 This would be made official when among the 11 resolutions that will be passed on Monday , the last day of the meeting, would be one titled 'Decentralisation-14 Smart Cities' “This is the first time that such a resolution will be passed in Mahanadu as we want to tell people that our focus is on urbanizing the entire state and not just the capital area and the port city is the ideal place to make this clear, " a top leader told TOI. 
 
 Interestingly, among the other resolutions will be one on Amaravati. In all, 30 resolutions including 8 on Telangana are expected to be passed during the three-day event held to coincide with the birth anniversary of TDP founder and former chief minister N T Rama Rao. The Andhra University grounds, venue for the meet, is slated to accommodate about 50,000 delegates.
 
 The ruling party is disappointed that though a lot of efforts were made to develop Vizag after Cyclone Hudhud, including ensuring that several industries set shop here, the feeling on the ground still is that the port city is being neglected. “After bifurcation, we have conducted Mahanadu in Tirupati and Hyderabad. Now, with decentralization being the focus both of the party and the state government, Visakhapatnam naturally became our choice for hosting the annual event.
 
 We will make sure the message of decentralised development reaches the delegates and the people of Vizag through them," said TD Janarthan, party central committee member.
 
 Each of the 30 resolutions will be supported by one MP, one MLA, a district level leader and four party workers. For the first time, the TDP has introduced a registration procedure for delegates who support a resolution being given an opportunity to speak.
 
 As with the previous Mahanadus, a notification will be issued on the first day of the meet for the party president's election and the same will be confirmed on the third day. And as usual, Chandrababu Naidu's will be the only name that will figure in this exercise. Of interest this time would be the role played by newly elected MLC and newly inducted minister Nara Lokesh in the event.
 
