

 
 
 I definitely believe that I have created my own space. My team and I did not have any other option. We worked really hard and we believe in business ethics and being professional. And I hate to say this, but I love those people that don’t want to work as hard as me, because they make room for me to get through. And I think over the years, people in the industry have started believing, ‘Oh, she might be here to stay. Maybe we should say hello’.
  
  
 
 
 I don’t go to too many. But over the last few months, I feel like we’ve gone out a lot more than usual. So it’s been interesting meeting new people and hanging out with people I never thought I would hang out with. I actually make sure that wherever I go, I meet at least one new person and just say hello. Usually, I love going into a corner in big crowded rooms and have a glass of wine, and not move because I get really shy. I know that it’s really hard to believe, but I am a shy person.
 
  
  
 
 
 I think it’s absolutely amazing. This song is a hit, it is a classic. The film’s makers remade it and made it uppy and people love it. The first day that the film was released, I watched some videos where people were going crazy. It was such an overwhelming, emotional moment because you say to yourself I can’t believe that the song is doing this to people. So it was a really big wow moment for me. I have to go back and buy a ticket and actually watch the song again and see people’s reactions. 
 
  
  
 
 
 I think everything is a stepping stone to something bigger or better. I’ve always believed that since, I think, I was 16 or 17. So everything that I’ve done up until this song needed to happen. I have learnt so many different things along this entire five-year journey that it’s helped me be a better person on screen for this song. I hope it only gets bigger and 
 better and my two and a half minutes on screen change into five minutes or more. It’s also about the quality of the product that you are putting out there. This particular song proved to me that if you put in the hard work and if the production is right, if the people backing you are correct, it is possible for it to be wow.
 
  
  
 
 I get an offer to do a song almost every single day. But I don’t do them all. This was one where all the puzzle pieces fell into place. I don’t look at songs negatively. It’s the only thing that makes Bollywood so different from any other film industry in the entire world. But everything needs to fit. It’s not always about money. Like when you work on someone else’s film that is not your own, you have to weigh out the other options. It’s not about money, usually. What I got out of working with Shah Rukh Khan is way more than any amount that anyone could ever offer me.
 
 
 
 I think, as entertainers, the really nice thing about social media is you get to block anybody who is a jerk. I think I have one of the largest block lists ever in Bollywood. I block people all the time. I block people who are verbally abusive either to one of my other followers or to me or threatening me or posting things that are extremely inappropriate. Trolls don’t ruin my day. I actually feel sorry for them. They probably have very low self-esteem.
 
  
  
 
 
 It is very important to stand together and raise our voices because that’s the only way people will be discouraged to repeat such acts. I don’t understand what makes someone so angry that they form a group, break into a set and beat up somebody. It breaks my heart. I really hope that things change. We live in a democracy. I think it is important that we stand together now.
  
  
 
