BHOPAL: Two children, aged 9, were found in a train at Bhopal station on Saturday in a couple of hours after they went missing. The kids travelling with their parents, hailed from Sagar. A volunteer, who works at station, swung into action and reported the matter to GRP. Thanks to an alacrity of a volunteer and   childline, the kids were reunited with their parents the same day. 

 The  , launched recently, is proving a big help to trace and hand over kids to authorities or parents. 
 
 Over 24 children are reported missing every day in the state. As per NGOs working to rescue and, in some cases, offer them a shelter and rehabilitate such kids, about 60-70% of them are found on train or nearby railway stations. And these are places where some people are looking to pick and push these children into dark world.
 
 An NGO, Aarambh, accredited a group of 20 coolies, vendors and auto drivers at Bhopal station. Now, they keep a watch and help prevent these children from falling in hands of wrong people. Each member is given an identity card, Childine Volunteer Card. The idea is they do not face problem in handing over children to authorities. The NGO works closely with  , GRP and RPF. 
 
 These are the vendors holding stalls at different platforms or move around the train and auto drivers standing outside the railway station on either side. The group started working two years ago, with the help of NGO and have reported over 20 cases of missing children and helped them to reach at right shelters with help of GRP and RPF.
 
 R L Prajapati, a vendor, also a volunteer for railway childline, told TOI, “We found many cases. We also face pressure from people who try to take child away from us before reporting to police.
 
 They made a strong pitch for opening a special de-addiction centre on station premises for children hooked to gelly-like stuff and roam around the railway station.
 
 Aarambh director Archana Sahay said, “They have been working for past one year to report and help missing or lost children at the station, but often face problem in handing over these children to GRP and RPF, who asked them several question. Being identified to help and with accreditation they can report and begin work. This will encourage other vendors, coolies and auto drivers to join the group.”
 
 “We have given this list to GRP and staff members so that they do not face problem in recognising them and help children. They have helped us solve many cases. Many new members joined in. They help by promptingly informing us,” she said.
 
 These members, with a president, hold a meeting in once or two months and discuss problems they face. They get lessons in child rights.
 
 Railway Childline launched: 
 
 Though volunteers were working and reporting cases to GRP or RPF for long, it was still taking time for childline team members to reach Bhopal station due to distance between office and station. Thus much-awaited railway Childline was launched at Bhopal station in December 2016. Over 180 cases were reported so far.
 
 Sanjeev Joshi, centre in-harge at Bhopal station said, “We have set up the office recently and each day we are getting at least one missing child every day. People and volunteers can report us if they suspect any child found missing on railways premises or station or suspect trafficking through 1098.” 
 
 Currently, responsibility has been given to an NGO, Aanchal, which is taking care of railway childline at Bhopal station.They can also be reached at station, where there is a designated office. At Habibganj and Bairagarh station,   is taking care of child-related cases. 
 
