KOTA: A 21 years old girl was on Wednesday evening was picked up by two bike born youths and raped in an isolated temple later the two joined with the other three and five one by one took turns to rape her through put the night in an isolated place near Jawatikhurd village under   area of Bundi city. The victim was found today morning in bleeding state crying with pain and but could be rushed to Bundi district hospital at noon from where she was in the evening referred to Medical College hospital in Kota. None of the accused in the matter has been arrested so far, however the negligence of the police in the matter surfaced when the victim with family members was sent from one to another police station and eventually the matter was lodged in   station, where none of the responsible police officials responded to the calls. 

 A 21 years old girl of Meena community, a resident of Jawatikhurd village today lodged a case against one Shyoji Meena and other four other youths of her village and alleged to have raped her, told DSP, Bundi city Samandar Singh. Police have lodged a matter under relevant sections and investigating the matter, he said avoided elaborating on the incident and crime saying the investigation in the matter is underway but the statements of the victim and the spot of crime are not collaborating. The key accused Shyoji Meena and one another youth involved was familiar with the victim, he said. None of the accused in the matter has been arrested so far, he further added. 
 
 The victim was yesterday evening allegedly picked up by bike borne Shyoji Meena and his friend from Jawatikhurd village while she was coming from school and raped by the two in a nearby isolated temple. Later the two took the victim to another isolated place at a distance where three other joined them and took turns to rape the girl throughout the night. 
 
 The Victim and her family members were reportedly denied of lodging report at Sadar police station and were sent to Mahila Police station where the matter was lodged in relevant sections of IPC but no official attended the calls to elaborate the incident. The victim was in the evening referred to Medical College Kota. 
 
 
