PATNA: Churches around the city will celebrate Palm Sunday with processions and holy mass on Sunday. Thousands of devotees with palm leaves will gather at different churches at 7am to take part in the processions.
 
  Palm Sunday is celebrates to mark the triumphal entry of Jesus Christ into Jerusalem the week before his death and resurrection. “On Sunday morning, a ceremonial procession will be organized on the church campus followed by Mass,” said Patna Archbishop William D’Souza SJ, who will lead the procession and Mass at St Joseph’s Pro-Cathedral Church, Bankipore.
  
  “It is one of the major feasts of our Lord and it is the day on which Jesus Christ entered Jerusalem as a king. It also marks the beginning of the   during which Christians celebrate the mystery of their salvation through Christ’s death and his resurrection on Easter Sunday (April 16),” said  , parish priest, Queen of Apostles Church, Kurji.
  
  The church members will distribute palm fronds among the believers before the procession. The church will host a tableau on Good Friday in a prayer-focused Stations of the Cross event, which recreates the 14 different images depicting Jesus on his final day of life. Around 25 followers will act the scene and spread the message of peace, prosperity, unity and cooperation among people.
  
  Holy Week, or the series of sacred gatherings that commemorate the last days before Jesus’ crucifixion, is one of the busiest times of the year for churches. “Though it’s a day of mourning, it is called ‘Good’ Friday because Jesus Christ died for the good of mankind. His death is mourned as his sacrifice for the mankind and not celebrated,” said Fr Kevin David, priest of Padri Ki Haveli, Patna City. The procession will be led on Sunday morning from Gurhatta to the church premises.
  
  The Wednesday after Palm Sunday will witness regular prayers and Passion of Christ. However, the Thursday of the Holy Week will commemorate Christ’s last supper with his disciples and betrayal by his own friend Judas Iscariot. On Good Friday, believers across the world observe fast and pray to remember Christ’s sentence to death by  , the Way of the Cross and his death on it. Easter Sunday on April 16 will mark Christ’s resurrection.
