MUMBAI: UK-based   (IMG), the backbone of the Indian Premier League (IPL) over the last 10 years, has won the bid to be retained as events rights holders of the multi-million-dollar tournament. Associated with   since its inception in 2008, IMG-UK left behind three other bidders in the race to hold on to the contract which they had first claimed 10 years ago at a value of Rs 27 crore per year for a period of 10 years. In 2009, when the IPL shifted to South Africa, the annual contract between   and the   got hiked to Rs 33 crore and was pegged at Rs 28 crore per year between 2012 and 2013 when the league remained the 10-team affair.

 At today's incremental value, the renewed deal will see BCCI pay IMG close to 40% more of the previous one for services to be rendered over the next five years. The media rights auction, for which a tender will be floated on July 17, will also be allotted for a five-year term starting next season.
 
 An official announcement on the IMG-IPL deal is expected to be made by the cricket board on Saturday. The other three bidders in race for the contract were Rhiti Sports, run by cricketer MS Dhoni's managerial team;  , an event management company that specialises in Bollywood and Group of 4, a company with logistical expertise.
 
 Of the bids that were submitted in two different parts ­ technical and financial ­ only the technical aspect of the bids were opened by a select team of BCCI officials, including IPL governing council chairman   and CEO  , on Thursday based on which the BCCI decided to renew its contract with IMG.
 
 Following the valuation of the technical bid, IMG's financial bid was opened after which the two parties worked on negotiating a lower price, the details of which are not known. The renewed working relationship between IMG and BCCI is a shot in the arm for IPL considering the UK-based firm was first involved in strategizing the league back in 2007-08 and then worked towards keeping the tournament on firm grounds from an events perspective year after year. 
 
 
