THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The illegal   and wetland for major   -which had created a furore during the final months of the previous  's tenure -has received sharp criticism from the   (CAG) in the audit report of revenue sector for 2015-16.

 The report, tabled in the assembly on Monday, finds that five major infrastructure projects initiated by the UDF government in its final months were in gross violation of provisions of the   of Paddy Land and Wet Land Act, 2008.
 
 The Methran kayal project and the Medicity project at Kadamakudy panchayat, which were cancelled by the government itself later, were sanctioned by violating provisions of the act. It notes that the Methran kayal and Kadamakudy projects were sanctioned without obtaining approval from the agriculture production commissioner. The report also found laxity in evicting land encroachers in several places despite court orders to do so. Comptroller and Auditor General Of India (CAG) has unearthed tax evasion worth over Rs 126 crore by banks and jewellers in the state in connection with the import of gold, diamond and platinum during 2011-2015 period.
 
 The authority discovered the extent of evasion through analysis of import data obtained from Central excise and Customs, New Delhi and the import details furnished by the dealers. Six dealers in four assessment circles had imported gold, diamond and platinum amounting to Rs 4,191.16 crore but reported only Rs 496.69 crore. “The suppression of import purchase worked out to Rs 3,694.46 crore and the resultant short levy of tax, interest and penalty worked out to Rs 126.70 crore'', CAG report on revenue sector of the state tabled in the assembly on Monday said.
 
 Later addressing a news conference, Principal Accountant General (Economic and revenue sector audit), Amar Patnaik told reporters that “the most benefitted assesse was The Dhanlaxmi Bank Limited from whom short levy of tax was Rs 118.40 crore, including the interest and penalty for the year 201112 to 2013-14.“
 
 South Indian Bank and the Federal Bank also suppressed the import volume, which the CAG assessed at Rs 4.37 crore and Rs 2.36 crore respectively. The report also names three jewellers which suppressed import amounting to Rs 1.57 Cr. “We don't know why these banks suppressed their import figures. We have not probed into the why factor. It has to be investigated. The list of tax evaders in this category is not complete. We have only examined the dealings of six dealers in four assessment circles'', Patnaik said. The auditor report has cited lack of coordination with other departments in collecting data useful for the completion of assessment as the reason for the large scale tax evasion.
 
 The white paper published by the empowered committee on state level value added tax emphasised the need for cross verification of data between various implementing and taxation authorities so as to check the tax evasion.The Audit found that the government departments concerned were not collecting these details from any other centralstate government agencies.
 
 The CAG report also rapped the government for not collecting purchase tax from jewellers. According to the report, from 2013-14 and 2014-15 period, nonlevy of purchase tax resulted in the loss of Rs 2,475.55 crore.
 
