MUMBAI: The   of Mumbai, which is in the process of standardizing marksheets for first year undergraduate students, may need lessons on drafting a format.

 The first cut circulated among institutions is riddled with errors, say college  . Missing conspicuously from the intended document is the name of the university. There are spelling mistakes too. 
 
 Not only is the title, “University of Mumbai” missing, there is no provision to mention that the college, which the student belongs to, is affiliated to the university. 
 
 “The specimen copy is a joke,” said a college principal. “Results are so important to students and what the university has designed is an ordinary sheet of paper, filled with mistakes. How can there be no university name? Also, that we follow the British system of affiliation has to be indicated by stating that the college is affiliated to the University of Mumbai so that universities and companies abroad identify the institution.”
 
 It was in 2016 that the varsity began to take over the task of conducting first year undergraduate exams. Until then all exams were organised by respective colleges except those held at the end of the final year, which were under the university’s purview.
 
 This year, in a bid to bring about uniformity in undergrad education, the MU designed question papers and held common exams simultaneously across colleges. Standardizing the results was the next step.
 
 But clearly no one’s happy with the effort. “The regulation passed earlier had said this sheet would be termed a Grade Card. Suddenly now in the specimen, it is being referred to as a ‘Certifiacate (with a wrong spelling) Showing The Result of the Candidate’,” said a college head.
 
 Among other errors, educationists said there was no provision to put the college logo or the student’s photo. “There is also no mention of the overall grade table. And printing of earlier grades from the second semester onwards is not shown,” said another principal. Description of symbols used to indicate grace marks is also missing. There is no provision to mention scores on internal tests or practicals either.
 
 University officials said the errors had been pointed out and the design was being altered. “We are now making provisions for all that was missing and rectifying the mistakes,” said a university officer.
 
