GURUGRAM: Nearly 35,000   of six units of   Suzuki and its vendors in the district observed a token tool-down   on Saturday night. The one-hour strike — from 9pm to 10pm — was in protest against the life sentence handed down by the district court to 13 workers in the 2012 Maruti violence case.

 The workers have also decided to take out a mass protest rally in Manesar on March 23, the martyrdom day of Bhagat Singh, and appeal against the district court’s order in the Punjab and Haryana high court.They have also agreed to pool in money to provide financial assistance to the families of the convicts.
 
 The decisions were taken in a meeting of representatives of 150 Maruti unions, which was held soon after the court pronounced the quatum of   for the 31 convicted in the case.
 
  Unions participating in the meeting included six from Maruti Suzuki and Gurgaon chapters of AITUC, CITU and Hind Mazdoor Sabha (HMS). 
 
 “These workers were framed by the management and we want to show them that the verdict has affected many lives. We do not want to retaliate by disturbing peace, so this is how (the token strike) we are expressing our anger and pain,” said Kuldeep Janghu, general secretary of Maruti Udyog Workers Union.
 
 The workers had shunned Holi celebrations on March 13 and skipped meals on March 16 to show solidarity with the convicted workers.
 
 Labour union representatives also said that they would appeal against the court’s verdict. In the case of 13 who got life imprisonment, it would be for reducing the punishment, while those who have to serve one more year in jail, it would be for their immediate release, they said.
 
 The unions would also seek compensation and rehabilitation for all the convicts in the case, they added.
 
 “The workers have been falsely implicated and they not only deserve to be released, but they should also be compensated for the years they lost due to this case,” said Khushi Ram, head of provisional working comm-ittee, Maruti Udyog Workers Union.
 
 
