TRICHY: Despite repeated advice to the people not to fall prey to  , instances of residents of Trichy parting with their   about   have been on the rise. Faced with a lot of hurdles in cracking such cases, the police have reiterated their plea to ignore such calls. 

 The latest modus operandi of the fraudsters was to transfer the money to mobile wallet as soon as they obtained the ATM card number and   (OTP) from the  , said the cyber crime police officials. The cell received at least a complaint a day. 
 
 They said that most of the complaints being received by them at the office of the commissioner of police in Trichy were related to incidences of money being withdrawn by unidentified persons within a fraction of a second. All they did was to call up people from their list and introduce themselves as executives of a bank in which the receivers were holding the account. Next, they would ask for the ATM card number to renew the card. 
 
 The moment the account holder gave the number, they would enter the number for the transaction through mobile wallet. Further, they would ask for the OTP that was sent to the registered mobile number of the account holder. Soon after it was disclosed to them, the money would be debited from the account. 
 
 According to the cyber crime police, it was no easy task to trace the fraudsters who mainly operated from north India with fake identity proof and address. The lost money could not be recovered. An officer said that most of the victims were educated. Taking this into serious consideration, city police commissioner A Arun advised the people not to disclose any such vital details to anyone claiming to be the staff of banks because no bank would call up the customers asking for such details. In most of the cases, people disclosed such information to them when the caller said that the card will be blocked if it was not renewed now. 
 
 The police said that there was no such procedure in the banking setup. If the account holders need clarification about their transaction, they can either meet or call the bank manager. The police also asked the people not to note down the PIN of the ATM on the backside of the card.
 
