NEW DELHI: Burglars broke into the house of Nobel laureate  's house at Aravali Apartments in south Delhi's Kalkaji locality on Tuesday morning, and fled with the gold-plated replica of his   and other valuables.Satyarthi, 63, is away in America, attending the world summit of Nobel peace laureates.

 The replica of the prize is awarded along with the actual medal, which Satyarthi had given to the President. The thieves prised open a locker in which the replica was kept.They also broke into an almirah and took away other medals and honours given by heads of state, including a set of expensive shawls that Satyarthi had received as gifts.
 
 Police said the bur glars broke into two other houses in the complex and decamped with valuables. The owners of the apartments too were away on vacation. The Centre has sought a report on the theft and six police teams have been formed to crack the case.The theft was discovered around 9am on Tuesday. 
 
 Satyarthi's colleague, Ra kesh Senger who parks his car near the Nobel laureate's house, found Satyarthi's washerman outside the house. “He told me the main entry door to his house was open though he could not find anyone inside. I stepped in and found the rooms ransacked. The red velvet box in which the Nobel was kept was lying on the floor along with the boxes containing other medals and certificates,“ said Senger.
 
 He alerted Satyarthi's son who lives nearby, after which police were informed. Preliminary investigations suggest that the burglars had entered the colony through a gate near Satyarthi's house and broke in through the window beside the entrance door at the ground floor apartment. “One of them might have removed the grille and entered the house and then opened the door for the others. It seemed that the men had ripped the lock of the safe using a grille cutter or an iron rod,“ said Senger.
 
 The men then opened a door behind the kitchen and fled. The access leads to a second gate towards the exit which they might have used to escape. “ A police probe has been initiated and I have complete faith in the authorities and the legal bodies of our country . The Nobel belongs to the country and its children,“ said Satyarthi in a statement.
 
 A police team led by the area DCP , reached the apartment during which the two others thefts were reported. It was found that the thieves had broken into another ground-floor apartment belonging to a businessman named Arnab Mukherjee and then targeted the firstfloor flat of one Sameer Tiwari. Police said Mukherjee had left for Shimla on a vacation on Monday , while Tiwari was visiting his home town in Madhya Pradesh with his family .
 
 “We have formed a joint team, comprising members from the district and the crime branch to probe into the matter. An FSL team has been called in to lift fingerprints which would be analysed,“ said joint commissioner and police spokesperson Dependra Pathak.
 
 It was found that the complex is covered by 17 CCTV cameras, out of which 10 were functional. Police officers scanning the clips are yet to come across footage showing the accused.
 
