BHOPAL: Elections will be held for 37   bodies in 15 districts and panchayats in 51 districts through EVMs on August 9. Releasing the schedule, Madhya Pradesh State Election Commissioner (SEC) R Parasuram on Friday said counting will be done on August 12.

 Elections have been deferred in   and Dhar districts where authorities have to shift and rehabilitate nearly 15,000 families, from the areas which will soon get submerged in   waters.
 
 Addressing the media, Parasuram said state government had expressed their inability to deploy staff for election in these two districts as they would be required for the rahablitation of project affected people. He said the government machinery is already busy there in complying with deadline set by the Supreme Court hence polls in these districts would be held in November.
 
 Parasuram said the candidates can now file nominations online and voters can download an election app which will have all their details. The entire exercise will start from July 17 and end on August 13, with the actual polling taking place on August 9.
 
 This is for the first time, that EC has started the option of online nomination filing for candidates. Specialized software   has been made available availed to all districts going to polls for that purpose.
 
 Voters can also download the Android smartphone based application Chunav from the MP State Election Commission’s web portalmplocalelection.gov.in. This app was used successfully in the local body polls held in Mandu, Amarkantak and Harda recently.
 
 It will help voter get e-voter slips bearing their pictures for exercising their franchise in the polls besides details about candidates and polling booths.
 
 “With this announcement, the model code of conduct has come into force for these elections with immediate effect”, he said. Liquor shops will remain closed and sale of liquor will be prohibited on five kilometre stretch on both sides of the state highways, national highways and district roads passing through the areas where model code of conduct is in force and this would start 48 hours before the voting till it ends.
 
 In box
 
 POLL SCHEDULE
 
 August 9: Polling will be held in 37 Nagar Palika Parishads and Nagar Parishads across 15 districts, including Khandwa, Ratlam, Betul, Jhabua, Alirajpur, Khargone, Burhanpur, Chhindwara, Seoni, Mandla, Dindori, Balaghat, Shahdol, Anuppur and Umaria.
 
 By-elections: For posts of chairpersons of four Nagar Palika Parishads and Nagar Parishads in Khargone, Satna, Gwalior and Morena. 
 
 Right to recall: Elections will be held for president’s post in three local bodies in Narsinghpur, Vidisha and Morena districts
 
 Fresh polls and bypolls would also be held in the state for the posts of panchayat members, sarpanch, janpad panchayat members, district panchayat members across the state.
 
 Filing of nominations: July 17 to July 24. Scrutiny of nomination papers will be done on July 25 and candidates can withdraw their nominations by July 27. 
 
 Results: August 12 and August 13.
 
