MADURAI: The Madurai bench of the Madras high court has directed the secretary of the   (Trichy) to ascertain the wishes of inmates in   in   and to file a comprehensive report in that regard before the court. 

 The court also directed the district social welfare ( ) officer to be present and record the views of each inmate in the form of a statement.
 
 The home is at present under the custody of the district social welfare department following the court's order on a petition alleging that the children were trafficked by pastor   of the home. 
 
 The inmates of the home filed a petition before the court seeking to release them from the control of the officials monitoring the home.
 
 The division bench of Justice T S Sivagnanam and Justice N Seshasayee heard it. 
 
 The petitioners' side said that the pastor who ran the home gave Rs 28 lakh in the last one year after the government took control, but the inmates' basic needs like food and medical treatment were not met besides the authorities (DSW and police) exercising excessive restrictions inside the premises.
 
 The child welfare committee chairman S Indira Gandhi, its members Muthumaladevi and Rajalakshmi and DSW officer S Usha who appeared before the court said that a committee, formed under the chairmanship of the district collector, wanted to speak to the inmates individually and directed them to appear before the committee. But, the children wanted the committee to meet and speak to them collectively. 
 
 The committee was of the opinion that it would not be appropriate for it to get opinion collectively, regarding which a report was also submitted to the district collector for suitable action, they said. 
 
 Following it, the court said, "We feel that proper exercise should be conducted so as to ascertain the views of all the inmates to assess as to whether they have focus in life and they are clear about what they would do after they leave the home, besides, above all to ensure that they are not tutored to give certain statements. 
 
 "To ensure absolute transparency to obtain the best feedback, the secretary of the legal services authority is directed to ascertain wishes of the inmates. The DSW department is also directed to provide all infrastructural arrangements to facilitate the process including food and refreshments for the inmates."
 
 
