GUWAHATI: Assam Police has registered a   of sedition against an   who had openly sought help from leader of banned Ulfa-I,  , to ask film distributors not to take his film off screens to make way for the Shah Rukh Khan-starrer ‘Raees’ and Hrithik Roshan’s ‘Kaabil’ last week.

 Police were waiting for an individual or organisation to file an FIR, but when that did not happen, it chose to take up the suo moto case.
 
 City police commissioner Hiren Nath said, “This is a serious offence, sedition, to seek help from the leader of a force inimical to the interest of the nation. By seeking help directly from the leader of such a force, he (filmmaker) has projected the person as a savior and has undermined the law of the land. We are taking the matter very, very seriously.”
 
 The 35-year-old NSD graduate,   Das told TOI, “I have been summoned to the police station tomorrow afternoon. I have been told that police want to ask me certain questions on my appeal to Paresh Barua.”
 
 Assam Police had initiated an investigation to establish prima facie crime before registering a case against him.
 
 Police fear that unless serious steps were taken, anyone facing a problem might follow Das’ footsteps and seek Ulfa-I chief Paresh Barua’s help. This, in turn, can be interpreted as people’s support for the rebel outfit.
 
 Das’ released his film on January 20 and four days later he wrote an open letter to Barua in social network after film distributors said they would take off his film, ‘Shakira Ahibo Bakultolor Bihu Loi’, for the two Hindi movies the following day. Barua responded by immediately calling up media houses to extend support to Das and urging hall owners to respect Assamese films.
 
 Das said he had made similar appeals personally to Aasu, Assam Jatiyatabadi Yuba Chatra Parishad and Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti and because it was not possible for him to call up Barua, he had chosen the social network to make his appeal.
 
 Police see Das’s move as unprecedented. “It was unnecessary to seek help from Paresh Barua which appears like extending support to him,” a police official said.
 
