Crazy Sumit, whose ‘kiss and run’ videos caused quite a stir online and had Delhi Police’s cyber crime cell chasing him, turned into Crying Sumit after the cops finally caught up with him at his friend’s house in Ashok Vihar, Gurgaon. Sumit and his cameraman were detained by the   on Friday, but have been let off for now after they insisted that the women in the clip were crew members and not strangers. After the kissing   caused outrage, DT spoke to other YouTubers who also post similar prank videos, and they said that 90% of such videos are staged. Although the kissing prank video earned him over `70,000 on Friday, Sumit told the cops, 'Main yeh line chhod dunga, kabhi video shoot nahin karunga!'
 
 
 
 After Sumit claimed that the girls were his friends and not random strangers, Ravindra Yadav, Joint Commissioner (Crime), told us that it would be unfair to arrest them without investigation. Sumit and his friend and cameraman,  , are BCA students at World College of Technology and Management, Farrukh Nagar, Gurgaon, and say that the girls in the video studied with him in Gurgaon’s Gyan Deep Public School. Sumit has also shared the girls’ addresses, and the police will talk to them. 
 
 
  
  
 (L-R)   constable Kapil, Satyajit Kadyan, Sumit Kumar Singh and Sandeep Lamba, Assistant Commisioner of Police (Crime) (BCCL) 
 
 
 Bhishm Singh, DCP (Crime), said, "If the girls in the video say that Sumit kissed them without permission, we will book him under Section 354 of the IPC (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty). If what he is saying is true, and they are indeed his friends who knowingly participated in the videos, then this is a case of obscenity under Section 67 of the IT Act (punishment for publishing or transmitting obscene material in electronic form). He could also be booked for engaging in obscenity in public places. Charges toh rahenge, but we have to do interrogation first."
 The police officials told us that he initially did not confess that the videos were staged because then they will lose the shock value, which is what gets him more views and likes. Sumit has uploaded more than 35 videos in the last year and received over one lakh hits. 
 
 
  
  MAAF KAR DO, PHIR NAHI KARENGE: Vedanshi Agarwal from Daulat Ram College and Anmol Agarwal from Hans Raj college pose as guilty   pranksters for DT
 
 
 
 
 Talking about the video, Kadyan, who also has a prank videos account, told the police that the kissing prank was planned in December. They had decided that Sumit would kiss the girls, who would then pretend to be shocked. The video earned them over `70,000. Sumit told police, "Maine video banane ke baad regret bhi kiya, aur phir use internet se hata bhi diya tha. Thoda excess ho gaya. Main yeh line chhod dunga, kabhi video shoot nahin karunga.' 
 Delhi Police is also miffed about the fact that YouTube organizes seminars for such pranksters and even give them awards and certificates.   was also awarded in October. After learning this, the police has decided to issue a notice to Google and YouTube as well.
 
 
 Explaining how the police traced Sumit, Bhishm Singh, told us, 'When they upload videos on YouTube, they use their email ID. In the ID, there is a section with the user’s phone number. We traced his address from the number. Our team went to Gurgaon on Thursday night, but he was not at his home and was staying with his friend." Sumit also told the police that he was contacted by some unidentified people claiming to be the Delhi Police, and asked for his details. This matter is also being looked into.
  
 
