NEW DELHI: Founder president of   (SBSP) Om Prakash Rajbhar has contested many   but has never won, nor has his party. However, Rajbhar is in great demand as a "star campaigner" in eastern UP, even by several BJP nominees, this time around. 

 The party draws its support from the Rajbhar caste, one of the least empowered in the OBC category, which constitutes around 2.6% of the state's population. The community can tilt results in more than 70 constituencies in the Varanasi-Azamgarh-Gorakhpur region. 
 
  BJP has an alliance with Rajbhar's party as also the Apna Dal faction led by Anupriya Patel, a minister of state in PM Narendra Modi's cabinet. BJP has spared 20 seats for the two allies, eight for Rajbhar and 12 for Patel, but the saffron party anticipates big dividends, mainly in the last four phases of polls involving 204 seats, a majority of which are in eastern UP. 
 
  BJP expects decisive gains in eastern UP thanks to the presence of leaders like Rajbhar, Patel and several non-Yadav OBC leaders, who represent the most backward castes (MBC) which account for more than two-thirds of OBC votes. BJP state president Keshav Prasad Maurya, former BSP leader Swami Prasad Maurya and BJP OBC Morcha chief Dara Singh Chauhan are a few names rallying MBC voters. 
 
 Confident of support of Thakur and Brahmin voters, almost 19% of the state's population, BJP leaders claim to have swept the first three phases, which they hope will help them gain majority. The party has fielded around 170 non-Yadav OBC candidates from different castes like Lodh, Rajbhar, Saini, Gujjar, Shakya/Maurya, Dhankar, Nishad and Kevats.
 
 "We had no caste calculations while selecting candidates but certainly the party has focused on the least empowered castes, which have faced deprivation for decades," said Keshav Prasad Maurya, whose elevation as state BJP chief is said to be the game-changer for the saffron party's bid to woo MBCs. 
 
 BJP general secretary Arun Singh said the party would win the polls thanks to meticulous execution of the strategy drawn up before the elections. 
 
 Party leaders' confidence of returning to power after 15 years also stems from the presence of several SP rebels and   fielding 97 Muslim candidates, who are likely to split minority votes. "Friendly fight" among SP-Congress candidates in 22 constituencies is another favourable factor for BJP and also BSP. 
 
 However, SP claimed it would retain power and is banking on chief minister Akhilesh Yadav's charisma. "We saw resentment among the Jat community, who have voted against the BJP unlike the 2014 Lok Sabha polls and confusion among the Muslim community was over once SP-Congress alliance was sealed," claimed SP spokesperson Rajeev Rai. He said most "rebels" would withdraw. 
 
 Several SP leaders have turned rebels. Prominent faces like former ministers Ambika Choudhary and Narad Rai quit SP and are now BSP candidates from Phephna and Ballia respectively. Gangster-politician Mukhatar Ansari and his family is also in BSP and are set to split the minority vote in eastern UP. Mukhtar (Mau), son Abbas (Ghosi) and brother Sigabatullah (Yusufpur) are BSP nominees and they are set to influence minority voters in Varanasi and Azamgarh divisions. 
 
 
