On the wee hours of May 11, Anandu Das, a dancer from Chavara, posted a note on his Facebook page which said that he would ‘bid goodbye to everyone soon’. “I might never come back and I hope you will all remember me”, said the note. No one noticed anything amiss, especially since most of his friends were asleep at the time. Anandu was found dead the next morning; he had hanged himself. While the police say that he committed suicide over a failed love affair, his friends say that he was much loved by friends and family, and could have at least approached them before taking the drastic step, instead of posting on facebook.

 Anandu is just one of many who posted their last thoughts on social media before committing suicide, in the country. 35-year-old Marathi film producer Atul Tapkir committed suicide by allegedly consuming poison in a hotel room in Pune recently, just minutes after putting out a graphic note on Facebook in which he accused his wife and her family of mental and physical harassment. In his chilling virtual ‘suicide’ note, the Dhol Tashe producer revealed that he was taking this extreme step because of personal problems and blamed his wife for the decision. The incident comes just a month after the death of 24-year-old student Arjun Bharadwaj, who live-streamed a tutorial video on ‘how to commit suicide’ before jumping off the 19th floor of a hotel in Bandra.
 
 
 
 
 Actress and writer Parvathi T says that youngsters today celebrate everything on social networking platforms and that includes death as well. “They share success and failure alike in these platforms and I think that is why they are more connected to it.” For the same reason, the number of face-to-face friendships is going down for these youngsters in today’s world, she adds. 
 
 “The present generation doesn’t know whom to trust anymore. They don’t know how to face challenges or taste failures in life either. In Kerala, the situation is getting worse by the day. Youngsters have been brought up to aim at success from the time they are born.Over-expectations from parents and society lead them to take the extreme step. 
 
 Ankur Kakatkar, who was close to Atul Tapkir, feels that we have become over dependant on social media these days. “The very fact that he couldn't speak to a real friend and had to put this up on a virtual platform shows how there was no one he could speak to in his time of need. The problem with us is that we have been introduced to the internet, but we have not been educated on how to use it. We have become so dependent on social media that real conversations have lost meaning.”
 
 
 
 
 Psychologist Seema Lal blames it all on the technology boom. “The current generation gets a false sense of being heard from social media as they get instant attention in the form of replies and reactions. Unfortunately they confuse it with actual care. They are now addicted to being connected 24 hours and are unable to enjoy ‘me time’ like the previous generations,” she says.
 
 The youngsters are not taught how to deal with failure or how to wait for something with patience, she adds. “Online games don’t teach you that. Even if you lose in a level, you can press restart button and play it again, which doesn’t happen in real life. The generation fails to distinguish between real and virtual life.”
 
 What we need, she says, is real inter-personal communication. “Nowadays, the conversations between parents and children have been boiled down to a set of instructions. Put away the phones, the computers, televisions for a while, sit with children and have open conversations. Let them feel that the five real people around them are better than the 1000 false friends in their social media account.” 
 
 
 
 
 S I Balachandran of Chavara Police Station, who investigated Anandu’s case says that all they could in such cases is investigate the case. “Anandu was a dancer by profession. He committed suicide between May 10 night and May 11 morning, after posting the note on his social media page. It is a case of unnatural death. A failed love failure is what prompted him to take the step. He was having an affair with a girl, but unfortunately her family fixed her marriage with somebody else. It is understood that he killed himself out of hurt. The family is under shock and unexplainable pain. All we could do is take a case under CRPC (Code of Criminal Procedure) 174 section,” he says.
 
 Range IG P Vijayan, on the other hand, feels that social media addiction results when youngsters don’t have friends in real life. “We can’t stop the people from getting connected with social media networks in today’s world. The fact that they post their last moments or drop hints about leaving this world on facebook is a reflection of their addiction. They rely on the virtual world only because they don’t have good companions in their life.”
 However, there have been cases where the police have been able to prevent suicides following alerts on social media. In October 2016, someone had posted a photo of a man walking on the Bandra-Worli Sea Link. When cops reached the spot, they realised that he was contemplating suicide and talked him out of it.
 
 
 
 
 With the growing number of suicides being documented on social media, Facebook has decided to hire human reviewers to police violent and illegal posts earlier this month. This comes after widespread criticism of the social network’s failure to censor content. Founder Mark Zuckerberg has said he will employ 3,000 moderators to review terror content, child exploitation videos, hate speech and suicides. He referred to incidents in which violent videos were either uploaded or broadcast live. The company has come under fire for broadcasting gruesome videos, often taking hours to remove them from its website.
 
 
 
 
 MAITHRI (also handles  )
 91- 484- 2540530 
 ( from 10 am to 7 pm on all days)
 
 DISHA (Direct Intervention System for Health Awareness) by Govt of Kerala Arogya Department
 1056 (24-hour helpline)
 
 
