NEW DELHI: After accusing the   government of trapping Muslim youth to join terror group Islamic State, Congress general secretary   has said the   regime recently enacted 12% job quota for Muslims at the behest of BJP to polarise the state along communal lines to squeeze out Congress from the local political matrix. 

 Singh accused TRS and BJP of acting in collusion and said that the state's ruling party was driven by the sole idea of hitting Congress.
 
 "The 12% Muslim quota was done in connivance with BJP. It is to polarise Muslims with TRS and BJP wanting this decision as they hope to gain with some Hindu polarisation," Singh told TOI, after his statement on Telangana and IS hogged the headlines and is still drawing bitter attacks from TRS and BJP. 
 
  "They want to finish off Congress in the state. But we are exposing them. The quota decision was taken at the behest of BJP," said Singh, who is AICC general secretary in-charge of Telangana. 
 
  Singh's focus on what he calls BJP-TRS partnership behind Muslim quota law suggests a link with his allegation that Telangana police was trapping the minority youth to join IS. Congress may be looking to undercut the TRS' attempt to bolster its support among the minority group by painting the state party as a villain on the IS front. The K Chandrasekhar Rao government last month hiked OBC Muslim quota from 4% to 12%, a decision that sparked immediate protests from BJP which has a negligible presence in the newly carved state. The move has caught Congress in a cleft stick as it cannot oppose the decision while celebrating it carries double risk of boosting TRS's standing among Muslims and alienating Hindus from the party. 
 
  However, the Congress veteran said Telangana government will be exposed among the minority community as the "12% quota will be struck down by the court" because it is in breach of the law which caps total reservation at 50%. 
 
  He said the state's quota activism has also put the present 4% reservation for OBC Muslims under threat. 
 
 Singh's bid to tar the TRS with saffron brush follows a tightrope walk for Congress in the state carved out of   where Muslims have a strong presence. TRS has successfully wooed a considerable section of OBCs and upper castes by leading the emotive statehood agitation and to Congress's woes, it has also carved a niche among Muslims. 
 
 
