 What’s a Saturday without a lazy brunch with friends? Such was the scene at the Italian restaurant of a city five-star hotel when culturist   along with actors Gaurav Chakrabarty,   Ghosh, composer  , his wife Piya, artist Chittrovanu Mazumdar, his wife Zareen and Birgit Holm — GM of the hotel — gathered for a special brunch. The brunch was hosted to honour celebrity chef  , who was in town along with chef Silvia Landucci from   for a special culinary extravaganza with truffles — one of the most expensive food ingredients in 
the world.
 
 
 The brunch had a variety of Italian dishes including roasted beetroot with feta, truffle oil infused porcini veloute, conchiglioni with lamb ragout, pokchoi and spinach risotto with cheese fondue, chicken cacciatore, tiramisu shots and chocolate delice, among others.
 
  
 
 
 
 Gorging on the spread, we spotted Piya appreciating Sundeep’s trademark scarf. “Is it from  ? I love the print and the blue and white combination.” To which her hubby dear, Anupam, quipped, “Bhalo toh lagbei, shada ar neel rong bole kotha.” “Seriously there was no political undertone to my comment,” retorted a smiling Piya.
 As the afternoon progressed, everyone chatted about films, travel plans, and of course, food. Chef Karen said, “I think the people of Kolkata are extremely passionate about food and they have also started experimenting a lot with their taste buds, much unlike other cities.”
 
 
 Gaurav, who was eager to taste most of the items on offer said, “There are so many options. I guess I have to eat little portions of everything in order to finish trying all the delicious dishes.”
 Ridhima was heard saying how mangsho bhat is like a ritual at her house every weekend. Giving her diet a miss for the day, we spotted the actress gorging on some tiramisu mousse, apart from other dishes.
 Chittrovanu shared some of his travel experiences and eating at several offbeat food joints with Karen. “It’s a pleasure interacting as well as improving my knowledge about Indian food abroad and different restaurants overseas with Karen,” said Sundeep.
 The laid-back Saturday brunch ended with everyone posing for pretty pictures and gushing about the marvellous spread.
 
 
 
