BHUBANESWAR: Touted as the mother of all  , the   allegedly   of nearly Rs 17,000 crore, at least four times more than the   But different   have so far detected and attached the company's assets to the tune of Rs 373 crore only. They remain clueless about the remaining Rs 14,000 crore. 

 A TOI inquiry revealed that the economic offences wing (EOW) of the state crime branch had in June 2014 asked the state finance department to attach the properties of Rose Valley worth nearly Rs 78 crore. The attached properties included Rs 51 crore frozen deposits in different banks, Rs 47 lakh cash, 15 acre land in Bhubaneswar and Balasore, four sprawling commercial flats in a plush apartment on the city outskirts and another office building in the Kharvela Nagar area here. 
 
 In what is described as the biggest attachment of money in the country, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) had on November 27, 2014 attached Rose Valley's bank balance worth Rs 295 crore in 2,807 accounts across the country. 
 
 Now the question that crops up is where is the rest of the money. "In our preliminary chargesheet submitted in the CBI court here on January 7 last year, we had mentioned that the company collected nearly Rs 17,000 crore from depositors across the country. It was not our lookout to trace and attach the company's properties. Our focus was on arresting the accused and busting the conspiracy," said a CBI official.
 
 The CBI said it is the responsibility of the EOW and the ED to trace the company's assets. The EOW and ED took the company's different accused, including managing director Gautam Kundu, on custodial remand in different phases in the past to know about his modus operandi and properties. "Though we grilled him, we could manage to locate properties to the tune of only around Rs 295 crore. Efforts are on to trace his other properties. We suspect he owned several benami properties and may have stashed money in undisclosed locations," an ED official said. 
 
 CBI sources said Kundu lived a flashy life and owned properties worth hundreds of crores of rupees. He has over 5000 acres spread across 12 states, 23 hotels, 150-odd luxurious cars, 900 branch offices and 3,078 bank accounts, another CBI officer said. Kundu rubbed shoulders with the who's who of Bollywood, Tollywood as well as the corporate world as he invested heavily in films and also in the IPL team Kolkata Knight Riders during seasons 5 and 6, the CBI sources said. The EOW, which interrogated Kundu in its custody for last eight days, failed to elicit any information about his properties. "We think Kundu is acting smart. He knows he would be convicted for maximum seven to eight years in the cheating case. He has already spent nearly two years in judicial custody. After the end of the conviction period, he can enjoy the staggering money," said lawyer Sidharth Das. 
 
 
