Nagpur: The news of Vidushi Kishori Amonkar dominated social media groups of musicians and music lovers as personal anecdotes were exchanged and many recalled their association with the great musician.

 Amonkar had performed in the city under the aegis of Saptak. “We did six programmes with her and she always very graciously accepted our invitation to perform in Nagpur,” says Vilas Manekar, founder member of Saptak. “When she had hiked her performance fee, she very generously asked us to inform her whenever we were short of money. ‘I will travel by train,’ she told us,” remembers Manekar.
 
 Much admired by her fraternity, she is remembered for her process of singing and philosophy of music. “She was an intelligent thinker who sang for the sake of singing, rest all was secondary,” says vocalist Kalayani Deshmukh.
 
 It was a rewarding moment for vocalist Sadhana Shiledar when she received a call from Amonkar. “I had done an review of her book ‘Swararth Ramani’. She located my number and called me to express her appreciation,” says Shiledar and adds, “Just as Kumar Gandharv is considered as Kabir of music, her dedication was akin to that of Meerabai.”
 
 Being her student was also an equally enriching experience, says oncologist Dr. Shriram Kane. In 1983-84, Kane became her student and visited her home to learn sitar when he was doing his residency at Tata Memorial Hospital in Mumbai.
 
 “She even arranged for a sitar for me from a musician,” says Kane, who learned only one raag, Yaman, in six months. “Each time she would render it differently and I feel so blessed that I could personally experience those improvisations.”
 
 Memories tumbled out as tabla and violin player Gopalrao Wadegaonkar recalled his association with Amonkar. “She was a simple human being, but a great musician. She would not eat before a performance but knew that I liked to have dinner before going on stage. She would make sure that I got it,” says Wadegaonkar.
 
 “My father would call her Kinnarkanthi,” says Supantha Bhattacharya, theatre actor and director. “Though I do not understand the nuances of Jaipur Atrauli gharana, the clarity and power of her voice and the gamak in her taans left a lasting impression,” he says.
 
 An avid follower of her compositions, associate professor Vaijayanti Asolkar adds, “Sahela re in raag Bhoop is music to my soul. What has always amused me is that Pt. Hirdaynath Mangeshkar preferred her for the song Jain vicharit ranfula over his illustrious sisters.”
 
 
