PANAJI: The office of the director general of Police issued instructions to all police in-charge of police stations to ensure compliance of provisions of Section 41 and 41A of the Cr PC, while arresting persons without warrant following recommendations made by the Goa State Human Rights Commission. Police officers Vilesh Durbhatkar and Shivram Vaigankar have been censured for procedural lapses in invoking the section while arresting   activist Sudeep Tamankar in 2013.

  Tamankar had complained of being illegally arrested by Porvorim Police station after he filed an RTI request before the State Public Information officer Vasanti Parvatkar who was functioning as Under Secretary (Law) at the time.
 
 He stated that she filed a false complain to the police who invoked Section 41 (a) of the CrPC and arrested him. The arrest was made when Tamankar, was most vocal against the   government including then CM  , on various issues.
 
 The Commission stated that it couldn’t accept the contention of the two respondents Durbhatkar who was the then police sub inspector at Porvorim police station and Vaigankar, the police in charge, as records indicate that the complainant expressed his willingness to appear before the Police as and when required. 
 
 “In spite of this position, the Respondent No 1 (Vilesh Durbhatkar) and Respondent No 2 (Shivram Vaigankar) arrested the Complainant without following the mandate of the provisions of Section 41 A, 41 A(3). Admittedly the Respondent No 1 who has arrested the complainant has not recorded any reasons for arresting the Complainant as required u/s 41 A (3) of CrPC. The Respondent No 1 and 2 have thus committed procedural lapses. They should have been more careful in arresting the Complainant as Section 41 A was invoked by the Police,” the commission stated, adding that it amounted to violation of human rights.
 
 The commission recommended that the Director General of Police censure the conduct of the respondents and issue written warnings to them to be careful in the future and to follow provisions of Section 41 A of CrPC meticulously.
 
 The commission also passed recommendations for the DGP to issue instructions to all Police Stations in the state to comply with the provisions of Section 41 and Section 41 A of CrPC in letter and spirit. 
 
 
