IMPHAL: Various groups in   have demanded that the contents of the Centre’s ‘framework agreement’ with NSCN (I-M) be made public.

 Volunteers of the powerful All Manipur Students’ Union (Amsu) on Friday stormed the offices of BJP and Congress in Imphal and demanded that both parties — one ruling the state and the other, the Centre — disclose details of the agreement signed on August 3, 2015.
 
 A Congress leader told the agitating Amsu members that the party had already urged the Centre to reveal the details of the agreement by Monday. Chief minister Okram Ibobi Singh had already warned the Centre that his government would challenge the agreement if it affected Manipur’s territorial integrity.
 
 Besides Amsu, various political parties and civil bodies have also demanded that Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Rajnath Singh disclose details of the agreement when they visit Imphal.
 
 While Modi will address a poll rally at the historic Kangla fort on February 25, Rajnath will give a speech on the THAU grounds, a popular sports ground, on November 19.
 
 The Congress, which is hoping to retain power for a fourth term, has made the   agreement a key electoral issue. Other non-Congress and non-BJP parties have followed suit.
 
 The top brass of Congress — Ibobi himself, Naga leader and deputy chief minister Gaikhangam and many ministers, MLAs and candidates — have repeatedly referred to the secrecy surrounding the agreement to corner the BJP government in election campaigns, public meetings, flag-hoisting ceremonies and political conventions.
 
 The BJP, nevertheless, has maintained that there was nothing in the agreement which would compromise the territorial integrity of the state. Union MoS for home Kiren Rijiju said the Naga peace accord was a confidence-building measure to bring about peace in the northeast.
 
 Manipur had in June 2001 witnessed a mass movement against the extension of NSCN (I-M) ceasefire beyond Nagaland. At least 18 people were killed in police firing during the movement popularly known as the ‘June Uprising’.
 
 
