HYDERABAD: The high court has faulted the   government in undivided AP for making a mess of the recruitment of 169 brake inspectors or assistant motor   (MVI) by subjecting them to repeated   and for sacking 15 of the   in an unlawful manner.
 
 The court has quashed the termination orders given to them and declared as illegal and arbitrary the state’s action in ordering the constitution of a second medical board for conducting tests on them. The state government in 2012 took seriously the complaint of a few unsuccessful candidates about alleged irregularities in the physical fitness tests and, without even conducting a preliminary inquiry, constituted a second medical board and asked all the candidates to undergo the test again.
  And finally sacked 15 brake inspectors who by then joined duties. 
 
 This opened a Pandora’s box and led to the filing of series of cases both at the AP administrative tribunal and later at the high court by the sacked candidates. The unsuccessful candidates too filed petitions seeking jobs in the place of those who were found medically unfit. 
 The bench comprising Justice V Ramasubramanian and Justice G Shyam Prasad, with one common judgment, resolved the concerns raised in a batch of petitions with rival contentions that pitched for both the selected candidates and also for the unsuccessful ones. Writing the judgment for the bench, Justice Ramasubramanian ruled that the state was wrong in interfering with the job of the AP Public Service Commission particularly when there were no allegations of corruption against the commission’s functioning. 
 
 The state’s decision to constitute a second medical board resulted in the board conducting tests on all the selected ones for the second time and in rendering 83 of the selected candidates ineligible in terms of physical standards prescribed for the job.
 
  Following uproar from the officials, the state immediately appointed an experts committee which examined all the cases individually and exempted 68 officials from the purview of deficiencies. But ordered termination of 15 officials. Justice Ramasubramanian, in his judgment, narrated how the state went on committing mistake after mistake.
 
