NEW DELHI:   captain   expressed helplessness when batsmen such as   and Kieron Pollard get going as the two West Indians scripted the home team's fall with stupendous batting.

 Simmons struck 66 while Pollard smashed unbeaten 63 before the   bowlers shot out the hosts for 66 to register a record 146-run win.
 
 "There is nothing much you can do. When I was on the field, I felt that they batted well. We had our plans, we started well, we stuck to the plan, but the partnership between Lendl and Pollard took the game away from us," Zaheer Khan said.
 
 "It's tough to restrict a team in this sort of wicket and once the target is over 200, you have to go after it. Last game, you saw our fearlessness. We went after the bowling today as well, but couldn't keep up.
 
 "190 was a good target. The dew was going to help us. But some days you can't put a finger to the loss. We have to stay positive, we have to regroup, we have a slight break. But it's all about winning games, playoffs is still possible," he said.
 
 Simmons, who played his first match of the season and straight away made an impact, was declared Man of the Match for his 66 off 43 balls.
 
 "I have been practicing hard. I have been hitting the gym, keeping my fitness up, waiting for the opportunity. It came today and I took it in both hands," the burly West Indies batsman said.
 
 "I'm good as a replacement player, it's been good for me. Batting in the Powerplay and with Parthiv is always good. My game plan is to see off the first two overs and then back my shots. At first it was a bit slow, but dew came on, and then the shots were easy to play.
 
 "Batting with Pollard is good, we are accustomed playing together. We didn't have a total in mind, we just had a mind towards keeping the run-rate up and not losing wickets at crucial times," he said when asked about batting with his big-hitting compatriot.
 
 Mumbai Indians captain Rohit Sharma was delighted.
 
 "We were clinical from the start. I think the opening stand set the game up for us. Lendl coming back after a long time, playing that way was amazing. And Polly, a brilliant finisher. Great performance by the bowlers as well and to win by 146 runs is huge," Rohit Sharma said.
 
 "It gives us confidence, knowing our bench strength is strong. We always had a lot of faith in Lendl and he showed us why he is one of the best. Never in two minds, always went for his shots. A player like that gives a lot of freedom to the other guys.
 
 With a lot of dew on the ground, we expected a tighter game. But the way we bowled our first six overs was brilliant. Result of our hard work over the last three four weeks, we have prepared well, we were clear in our minds. That clarity has been helping us," he said.
 
