NASHIK: New trains and better transit options on Nashik-Pune route have topped Nashikites’ wish list for the upcoming  .

 The residents here have complained of step-motherly treatment to the city as far as railway connectivity is concerned. “Nashik is the A-1 class station in the Bhusawal division, but the Indian Railways does not treat the city the way it should be. Even as Nashik has huge a volume of originating traffic, citizens here are forced to take their personal vehicles to travel to other parts of the country due to lack of proper railway connectivity,” Vasudeo Jadhav, resident of Vrindavan Nagar, told TOI. 
 
 Jadhav visits Tirupati Balaji every year, but except for the first time , which was seven years ago, he has travelled to the religious spot only by road.
 
 “There is no direct train connectivity to the Balaji temple from Nashik even though trains do originate from Nagarsol village, which enjoys a station-cum-terminus status and is 22km from the   on Nashik-Bhusawal route. It is high time for the Indian Railways to wake up to the fact that Nagarsol is not even a taluka and has nothing around to entertain the passengers,” Jadhav added. 
 
 The Member of Parliament from Nashik, Hemant Godse, has presented a memorandum to the railway minister seeking his attention towards the plight of Nashikites.
 
 “Nashik Road railway station was to be included in pilgrimage circuit ‘Astha’, but other than the announcement nothing has happened so far. In fact, it is after two years of promising of elevators and escalators that the actual work has now begun. Still we hope that the railway minister will do the needful for the residents of Nashik as he did for those in Mumbai. We urge the Union government to bring development to the city in the real sense,” Godse said. 
 
 Rail Parishad , a non-government organisation (NGO), too is betting big on the Union Budget to start services on the Nashik-Pune route. 
 
 “Nashik is not getting its due share. There are travellers to Konkan, Hyderabad and Chennai from the city. Forget about South India, there are not enough trains to carry Nashikites to the northern parts of the country. Many people from here have to travel to Mumbai to catch trains to their respective destinations,” Bipin Gandhi of Rail Parishad said.
 
 On road connectivity, he said the road traffic between Mumbai and Kolhapur via golden corridor or even the Konkan Road is very dense. “If railway connectivity is improved, it will be of huge help to the citizens here,” he added.
 
 Rajesh Fokne of the Divisional Railway Users’ Consultative Committee (DRUCC) stressed on the development of the Nashik station to increase revenue. “Why doesn’t the Railways think of developing the station to earn revenue while providing passenger-friendly infrastructure. The railway station can be turned into a business hub with the Railways getting revenue only for renting out its space. This way the railway administration will not have to spend monies for cleanliness and security of the station,” Fokne suggested. 
 
