 Planning to fly to the US? If you are visiting from any of the countries on their new list, you can forget about working on your   or tablet on the flight. In a move that has stirred up indignation and despair, the US recently decided to   electronic devices bigger than mobile phones on direct flights to the country from 10 airports in seven Middle Eastern countries and Turkey. Britain followed with a similar ban from five countries from the Middle East and northern Africa and Turkey. Meant to be a security safeguard, the move may have its own advantage, but from the traveller’s standpoint, the decision is set to spell out boredom and frustration…

 
 
  
  
 On March 21, the US-banned electronic devices in carry-on luggage on flights from some Middle Eastern countries. Mobile phones and other medical devices are reportedly exempt from this. In a similar move, the   also banned any device larger than 16cm long, 9.3cm wide or 1.5cm deep on flights from Turkey, Lebanon, Egypt, Saudi Arabia, Jordan and Tunisia. In theory, banning laptops and other electronic devices in cabins should reduce the risk of their being used to hide a bomb, as scanners for checked luggage are usually more sophisticated. Mobile phones and medical devices were stated to be the only things exempt from the ban. “The fear, which was based on precise information, was that the battery’s housing could conceal a miniature explosive of just a few hundred grams. Some countries will not have the same level of security screenings as in the US and other western nations,” Jean-Charles Brisard, president of the   was quoted as saying. But while that is one thing, this has escalated exasperation, for many people carry their work onto flights. It is also causing despair among travellers as to how to pass the time on a long-haul flight. 
 
 
  
  
 The prohibition is expected to have a huge impact on ‘tech-heavy’ corridors, where taking work aboard is almost second nature. It may also not be practical to check in the laptop owing to theft of the gadget or the danger of leaving sensitive data in the luggage area. Says tech expert  , “I don’t know the difference about carrying the gadget on person or in the luggage — if there’s a bomb, won’t it explode in either place? I wouldn’t allow my laptop to go into a checked-in space. It might break or people can steal project bids or other sensitive information from it.” 
 There is a way out. Says analyst Rizwan Alam, “The current laptop and tablet ban is good for direct and connecting flights from Middle East to and from the US. However, if the flight goes to Europe or a connecting flight is taken from Europe to US, it won’t have this ban. This is probably one way to beat this.” Adds Mukhi, “Imagine the sheer stupidity of it. If I go Mumbai-Dubai-US I can’t carry it, but if I go to Mumbai-Frankfurt and then Frankfurt-US then I can. And what if I can’t spend so many hours travelling? This is definitely not about security but the misuse of it. People are going to think twice before doing business with the US and UK, now.”
 
 
  
  
 Caught in the middle of the ban are thousands of travellers growing increasingly frustrated with what they see as a ridiculous measure. “Is there anything else I should know before flying back home? Navy blue boxers not allowed? Should I shave?” asked an American expat living in Abu Dhabi with a direct flight to the United States next week. “I mind because I need my laptop or my iPad. It’s a personal thing. Why do I have to put them in hold?” said another  , adding he now feared they would be damaged or stolen. 
  Others find the prohibition to be discriminatory. “Why are only Middle Eastern airlines subject to this ban?” asked Kelsey Norman, a doctoral student who plans to fly home Friday to Los Angeles from Beirut, and expects to have to check her laptop, a tablet and her camera. “Overall, this policy is inconvenient, discriminatory, and continues to hurt America’s rapidly deteriorating reputation globally,” she says.
 
 
  
  
 Flying with a laptop on board is considered the norm today. The additional time spent waiting to receive checked baggage on arrival and the frustration of not being able to get work done during the flight in a Wi-Fi enabled cabin is set to anger frequent flyers everywhere.
 
 
 Meanwhile, Turkish President Recep   has urged the US and Britain to lift their bans on laptops and tablet computers in the cabin of flights from many Middle East and North African airports, including Istanbul. “I hope that these nations, the United States and Britain, will review this and withdraw it as soon as possible,” he said.
 
 
 
 As per a report, authorities believe that enough material can be packed in a laptop, usually disguised as its battery, to cause catastrophic damage. But the ban does not mean a powerful laptop-hidden explosive device would usually be any safer if it got into the hold.
 
 
  
  
  
 Having a gadget to immerse yourself in was one way to distract the mind for those having flight fear. Folks will now have to settle with reading or sleeping, instead.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
