FAIZABAD/AYODHYA: “Jab Ram Bhagwan tatt pe aayi rahe banbaas jaane ko wo Sarayu paar kar sakat they, parantu Sita mayya kyunki stri thi agar se paani mein utarrti toh napunsak ho jati. Eeh liye wo naav dhundhat they. Tab hamaar Raja Nishad ooko paar lagai tha (When Lord Ram had come to the river bank to embark on his exile, he could have easily waded through the water. But if a woman crossed the water on foot, she would become infertile so he looked for a boat for mother Sita and it is then that our King Nishadraj came to their rescue),” says Sonu Nishad (42) with pride, while narrating the legend. 

 As he continues with the mythological story, banks of Saryu at Guptar ghat in  , which will go to polls on Monday, are lined with a few boats. Business is dull with low levels of water almost eight months of the year, February being one of them. The ghat is revered for being the place from where Lord Ram took ‘Jal Samadhi’, leaving his human form behind. 
 
 “From helping Lord Ram cross the river to bringing karsevaks in December 1992 to Ayodhya through the water channel, the   community has played an important role. “My father was one of those who ferried karsevaks here. There was Army all around and the kewats, my father said, were enamoured by the Ram Mandir movement. They helped outsiders so that the Babri gates could be unlocked. But they did not know that a religious place of another community would be demolished. That was sad,” he said. 
 
 The young voices in the community clearly want to move on, get jobs, be educated and live a decent life, with river providing not much to survive on. 
 
 At the slums of Nishad Nagar Ratiya in Faizabad, tagged the ‘malin basti’, there are hardly any   or fishermen left. With a population of over 12,000 Kewats, the slum has volumes of other problems, which residents say were never touched upon in the 25 years of BJP-captured Ayodhya seat and five years of SP rule. 
 
 “The biggest problem is raw alcohol that has claimed thousands of lives, ruined families and pushed women to fend for themselves. We have been protesting over this but local police patronise it,” said Arvind Nishad. 
 
 A young group from the village, with women in the lead, was thus born in September 2016 under the name of Ratiya Sudhar Samiti-Nishad Mukti Morcha that has been pushing the cause. “ We all face problems in getting married too,” said Neelam Nishad who claims to have given slogans for the movement that are also printed on calendars of Raja Nishad. 
 
 Another major issue is the lack of adequate toilets; three toilet compounds are used by over 10,000 residents of Ratiya. Only 30% population has private toilets. “We have sent several representations to the municipality but the condition is such that after sunset women and men prefer to go in the open,” said Veeru. 
 
  is another big challenge. “Only 25% of the people here have work, that too of selling fishes etc; the rest 75% are unemployed,” said Kamal Nishad. 
 
 “Nishads come under Other Backward Classes (OBC). For decades, we have been fighting for quota within quota for OBCs or Scheduled Castes (SC) status so that we can also get benefit of reservation which have been largely confined to dominant classes among OBCs,” said Lautam Ram Nishad, national secretary, Rashtriya Nishad Sangh National Association Of Fishermen.
 
