Living away from home, especially for students from other cities, has always been a big challenge. For starters, you are away from the comfort and security of home and are suddenly burdened with responsibilities and having to take care of yourself — all by yourself. The biggest issue, though, lies in having to manage your finances wisely, because money always seems to run out much faster than it comes in. But then, where there is a will, there is a way and the city’s student populace that is making do in hostels and paying guest ( ) accommodations is quickly adapting to the challenges thrown their way. 
Here’s how...
 
 
 
 Be it birthdays, anniversaries or the successful completion of a project, college-goers find many reasons to celebrate, which could be a potential drain on their finances. But that is easily taken care of by employing their DIY skills or making do with cheap and easily available trinkets for decoration. Furthermore, gifting options are widened by either giving hand-made and meaningful presents, or by buying cheaper knock-offs of branded goods, which serve their purpose while being much more pocket-friendly.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Food, undoubtedly, is the biggest expense for most college-goers, and they employ many tricks to overcome this strain on their resources, right from opting for accommodation that includes food in the offered facilities, to frequently visiting student cafés, where not only are items priced much lower than ordinary restaurants, but being a ‘regular’ inevitably leads to good-will discounts.
 
 
 
 Indians are infamous for their unique jugaad techniques to get out of any fix, and students are the masters of this trade. They always remember to carry their   ID cards everywhere, because, “Nearly every place offers student discounts that we’re often clueless about till we actually ask,” says Mayank Gurnani, a 19-year-old college-goer, adding, “And if the outlet doesn’t have a student discount policy, we sometimes manage to convince them to throw in some freebies. Of late, a lot of us have also started using digital payments, as most e-wallets offer discounts and money-back options.”
 
 
 
 Movie outings are always a major expense, but not if you are bunking class and catching morning shows on week days, or visiting single-screen theatres that still have relatively cheaper ticket rates. “There are days on which certain multiplex chains have flat discounted rates throughout the day. The trick is to catch movies that day and ensure that hunger pangs are dealt with before you hit the theatre, thereby avoiding exorbitant charges on snacks,” says Nihar Joglekar, a student living in a PG near Banashankari.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Living alone means doing one’s own shopping, from groceries to accessories. Although the cost of living in Bengaluru is rather inflated, college students deal with it by avoiding malls altogether and instead doing the rounds of the neighbourhood kirana stores and street shopping. With roadside stalls and shopping areas like Commercial Street offering quality ware at cheap prices, shopping becomes a minor blip on their bills.
 
 
 
 The regional diversity of the city’s student populace is such that they use their vacations to go on budget holidays all over India, by visiting friends from other cities. “You not only get to explore a new city, but you also get free accommodation and food, as your pal’s folks are normally more than happy to have you over. Just make sure to book your travel well in advance to avoid holiday-season peak rates,” says Simran Gagnani, a first- year graduation student.
 
 — Sanjana Sindhe
 
