NEW  : With   releasing 200 cusecs of water, the regular   to the city will be restored by Thursday afternoon. 

 On Wednesday, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted, “Haryana has started releasing water. Prodn likely 2 be normal by tomo morn n distribution by tomo eve. We are constantly monitoring situation.”
 
 This comes a day after deputy CM Manish Sisodia directed the DJB to file contempt case against the Haryana government and warned to cut down water supply to central Delhi, which is home to VVIPs, if supply was not restored by the neighbouring state. Earlier, Sisodia alleged that Haryana had held back 80 million gallons per day (MGD) of Delhi’s share despite court orders.
 
 
  
 
 On Tuesday evening, the Delhi government had sent a team of DJB officials to Hathnikund barrage to check whether Haryana’s claim of drop in water level at the barrage was true or not. Delhi’s chief secretary spoke to his counterpart in Haryana to resolve the issue.
 
 By Tuesday night, things had begun to improve as Haryana assured that it would release water. “There was a slight drop in water level in the barrage. But we are yet to get the final report from the team. Now, the issue has been resolved as Haryana has promised to restore the supply from Thursday,” said a DJB official. 
 
 On Wednesday, Haryana released 200 cusecs, which will reach Delhi by Thursday morning. “We are hopeful that by 10-11am all our water treatment plants will be getting full supply,” said a senior DJB official. 
 
 Since May 8, there had been a shortfall of 70 MGD due to which production at Okhla, Wazirabad and Chandrawal water treatment plants was affected. “The three plants produce close to 230-250 MGD. But in the past 10 days, the production has dropped by 25%,” added the DJB official. 
 
 Areas like Azadpur, Jahangirpuri, Timarpur, Mukherjee Nagar, Walled City, Rajouri Garden, Punjabi Bagh, NDMC areas, Shastri Nagar, Karol Bagh, Okhla etc were the worst hit due to the supply crunch.
 
 DJB officials said that since the crisis started, they had been supplying 67-75 MGD to central Delhi areas from Chandrawal plant against the capacity of 95 MGD. On Wednesday, DJB supplied just 67 MGD to central Delhi and NDMC areas.
 
 According to officials, this happens every summer as the demand shoots up. “Water supply is reduced, but it is just for a few days. It has never lasted for so long,” said a DJB official.
 
 While the situation was brought under control, opposition parties attacked the AAP government for “mismanagement of water resources”. BJP wrote to lieutenant governor Anil Baijal to call a meeting of officials to sort out the problem.
 
 
