NAGPUR: After   last month, gave security clearance to five companies which had shown interest in bidding for the  , a key formality remains to be done without which financial bids cannot be invited. 

 Two separate lease deeds remain to be signed between   (MIL) — the current operator of the airport,   (MADC) and Airports Authority of India (AAI). This should have been done in 2009, when MIL was formed but the formality remained pending over the years.
 
 Without the lease deeds, MIL cannot go ahead with calling of financial bids for  , despite having got the security clearance. 
 
 MIL was formed in 2009 to run the airport. It is a joint venture company (JVC) of state government’s MADC, which is executing the Mihan project and AAI. Both have contributed equity in the form of land and infrastructure. The two partners were supposed to sign a lease deed with their own JVC for letting out the land and other assets to it.
 
 This means AAI which gave the airport building and other freehold land has to sign a lease deed with MIL for it use. Even the MADC which has mainly contributed freehold land has to also sign a similar document. The formality should have been completed in 2009 itself, but remained pending over the years say sources.
 
 Now, the concession agreement to be signed with the prospective private player investing in the airport depends on the lease deeds between MADC-AAI and MIL. Hectic efforts are under way to get the deeds signed, said sources.
 
 It is being hoped that both the deeds will be signed soon so that the MIL can go ahead with calling financial bids under request for proposal (RFP). MIL has taken up the matter with both AAI and MADC. 
 
 Though the job can be done faster at MADC’s end, MIL will have to wait till the AAI signs on the dotted line. The matter is being expedited at both the ends, said sources.
 
 In the meantime a proposal has been forwarded to the state government for granting a cabinet approval to the privatization. This is because state’s MADC is a partner in the airport. 
 
 The privatization process began with calling of request for qualification (RFQ) to which six companies had responded in October 2016. These include Essel Infrastructure, IRB Mumbai, GVK, GMR, Tata Realty and PNC Infrastructure,
 
 IRB has opted out of the race with the remaining five getting the mandatory security clearance from home ministry. Now the MIL can go ahead with calling of financial bids under RFP. In the RFQ stage the companies’ eligibility to bid for the airport was considered.
 
