MOHALI: A married man from Gurdaspur has been booked for allegedly opening his profile and posting his pictures on a   site. On complaint of his wife at Mataur police station, Mohali, cops have registered a   against the man after investigation.

 According to police, Sartaj Singh, a businessman by profession, got married to a Mohali-based woman about five years ago. However, owing to some personal dispute, they started living separately within a few months of their marriage.
 
 Although a number of times both the parties agreed to stay together after intervention by the  , they ended up living separately. However, the couple had never filed for divorce.
 
 Earlier this year, when the woman’s family was pondering over whether to keep the relation or end it officially, they came to know that Sartaj has opened an account in two matrimonial sites. They found out that it was not only profiles but two pictures along with Sartaj’s   were also sited in the profile.
 
 The family was shocked. To verify whether it was really Sartaj, a close friend of the woman sent a request to Sartaj over one of the matrimonial site. Following this, the friend and Sartaj connected over phone, the matter was confirmed. 
 
 Following this, Sartaj’s wife, who has been living with her family in Mohali, filed a complaint with SSP, Mohali. Police after investiagation registered a case of cheating against Sartaj.
 
 It is alleged that Sartaj had mentioned himself as a divorcee although no divorce was filed yet. Sources also said, the accused might have fixed his marriage or an engagement but it could not be confirmed.
 
 Sartaj’s wife said, “By opening these profiles and posting his pictures, he is not only cheating me, but also other women on the websites.” 
 
 Local police had sent their team to Gurdaspur to arrest Sartaj but failed to do so as he was missing from his residence. Cops are now trying to trace his the location of his mobile phone to nab him. Investigation officer DSP Alam Vijay said, “We have registered a case under Section 420 of Indian Penal Code and also under relevant sections of IT Act. Further investigation is under process.”
 
 
