GAYA: In a swift action,   has cancelled the   issued to   of Punjab in 1995. The action was taken following an   in which the degree was found to be   and awarded. As per the internal inquiry report, Rathi did not appear either in part I or part II of the three-year degree course.
 
  Confirming the cancellation of Rathi's degree, vice chancellor Qamar Ahsan said the decision to cancel the degree and lodge an FIR against all those involved in the issuance of the fraudulent document was taken at the meeting of the university's examination board.
  
  The VC did not rule out detection of more such cases of fraud. Asked about the status of the degree issued in the name of Parampal Singh, the AIG level officer of the Punjab police who is alleged to have managed job on the basis of a fraudulently obtained MU degree, the VC said he will have to go through the file.
  
  MU, it may be recalled, has earned international infamy on account of a series of degree scams and the beneficiaries of the degree scams include a large number of foreigners. At the national level too, the beneficiaries of MU degree scams have managed jobs in different places, including Punjab, Haryana, Maharashtra and Karnataka. Three former VCs of the university have been sent to jail for their alleged involvement in the well flourishing degree scams.
  
  The VC said the proposed digitisation of the examination, admission and registration system will, to a great extent, reduce the chances of fraud. The digitisation exercise would be completed within the next three months. Online admission process too would be introduced to end the ongoing practice of wrong manual entries deliberately made to harass students and squeeze them in the name of record correction.
  
  End of manual record maintenance and its replacement with the digital system of data entry would, according to the VC, not cause any job loss in the university. Rather it will create new job opportunities, Ahsan believes.
  
  Not only the exam, admission and registration sections, the human resource and finance section of the university will also be digitised to prevent fraud, fix accountability and introduce efficiency and transparency. From now onwards, the first page of the answersheets containing personal details of the examinee would be in the OMR format, said the VC.
