On the one hand in Lucknow's Cantonment constituency is the clean and green Army controlled area and on the other, stinking garbage heaps, water logging and sludge overflowing on roads. The constituency comprises major markets like Sadar, Talkatora, Singarnagar, Krishnanagar, Alambagh and Lal Kuan and faces the worst kind of water logging problems because the network of drains is not optimum. Residents and traders have decided unanimously to choose a candidate who assures a proper network of drains in the area.

 TOI also found that most localities don't have proper drainage or drains are encroached by ramps outside houses or shops that make it impossible for sanitary workers to clean them thoroughly.
 
 Despite drains choking frequently, LMC visits to clean them only once a year. Sadar shopkeeper   said, “It has been months since Sadar drains were cleaned. You can't walk on the main market road after rains as the overflowing sludge stinks.“
 
 Sadar, Charbagh, and Lal Kuan | Sadar and Lal Kuan are heavily congested commercial areas. Because of poor vigilance, most shops and houses have encroached on drains. As a result, they are rarely cleaned and left to stink as garbage brims. The worst hit is the vegetable market where almost everyday, stale vegetables are dumped into drains. Likewise, Charbagh and Lal Kuan have fallen prey to mixed land use. The mushrooming of hotel chains and apartments in this area is exerting pressure on the decades-old drains. AP Sen Road, Charbagh resident   said, “Small hotels and apartments have mushroomed in our area while drainage system is old with no capacity. We need a political leader who can either stop unplanned housing or provide funds for enhancing capacity of drains.“
 
 RDSO Colony, Manaknagar, Mawaiya | In stark contrast to colonies developed and maintained by railways which appear cleaner, private colonies here see drains choked with sewage and polythene.   of Deepnagar, RDSO Gurudwara said, “Sanitary workers don't collect garbage from our houses for months. We have no option but to dump waste on road. As there is no cleaning of roads either, all waste is collected in drains.“
 
 Manaknagar faces complaints about potholed roads, unauthorised garbage dumping and irregular attendance of sanitary staff.
 
 Aishbagh Mill Road, Talkatora | If there's a downpour, locals of these areas have no escape from water logging which lasts for 5-6 hours as there are no drains.Whatever drains existed are all covered by concrete ramps. Sanjay Tripathi of   said surface water collects in low-lying areas and in an old depot of a petroleum company giving ground for mosquitoes and insects to breed. Talkatora resident Manoj Ringani said, “Leaders of our area never show up till elections and whenever we complain about water logging and garbage piles, the corporator appears with some workers and gets it cleaned but no long-term measure is taken.“
 
 Alambagh, Krishnanagar and Singarnagar | Situated around the city's first Metro corridor, these localities have not seen sanitary workers for two months.Residents have no option but to dump garbage in open drains.Poonam Kumar of Alambagh said, “Because of proximity to Metro corridor, we cannot dump garbage on roads so we have to collect garbage in houses for 1-2 days and then throw it in open drains.“
 
