KOLKATA: Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology Shibpur ( ) wants to give students the   (BTech and MTech) from two different institutes. This is being done to lure them into completing their Master’s programme instead of opting out after their fourth year, an option the institute had rolled out from last year.

 Students will also be   if they clear GATE. 
 
  Roy, director of IIEST Shibpur, will place the proposal at the senate, the institute’s academic decision-making body. Students who are currently in the sixth semester will be asked to make a choice.
 
 Sources said IIEST has signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the University of California, Irvine (UCI), in which one of the proposals is offering dual degree programmes from both universities. IIEST is also trying to sign MoUs with other institutions — including IITs and universities abroad — so that five-year dual-degree programme students can get BTech degrees from IIEST and MTech from the other institute.
 
 Under the scheme, students have to complete 10 semesters, of which eight will be at Shibpur, and the other two at the other institute.
 
 In another proposal to be placed at the senate this week, in order to attract more students to continue with their integrated MTech courses instead of opting out in the fourth year, IIEST plans to offer scholarships. Those who opt for five-year integrated courses will also be eligible for scholarships from the HRD ministry. But they will have to clear GATE before the seventh semester. “If necessary, all students who pass it will bag scholarships,” Roy said.
 
 Students interested in continuing with their ninth and 10th semesters will get the opportunity to do their Master’s degree project in any institute with which IIEST signs an MoU. Interested students will also get a chance to do their projects at reputable places. “It will be the first institute in Bengal to offer such dual-degree programmes from multiple institutions,” said a source. “In any case, IIEST will try to provide some students an opportunity to complete at least a one-semester internship as a part of their Master’s project at an industry of repute in India or abroad,” he added.
 
