NEW DELHI: Several opposition parties, including the Congress, the   (TMC), the DMK and the JD (U), today met with Election Commission (EC) officials to demand the postponement of the   to after elections are over in the five states.

 The Union budget is expected to be 
  . And polls in five states are 
  . Opposition parties fear the BJP will announce sops and other programs to sway voters towards them. This would be a violation of the Model Code of Conduct, they said.
 
 An 11-member delegation of opposition party members met with EC officials today.
  
 "We have a simple solution. Present the budget after March 8 and get it passed before March 31, there's plenty of time," said the TMC's Derek O'Brien. March 8 is the last day of polls in any of the five states. 
 
 The Congress, the TMC and other members of the delegation all said they wanted the budget postponed.
 
 "This is against the democracy, we have requested the EC to stop the presentation of budget. Populist measures could be taken in budget, so a just and fair election can't be held," said Ghulam Nabi Azad of the Congress, after the meeting with the EC. 
 
 Many have said since yesterday this is a deliberate ploy by the ruling BJP.
 
 "It is clear that the government will misuse the budget presentation and try to allure the voters just before polls," said Anand Sharma, Congress spokesman, ANI reported. 
 
 "This gives unfair advantage to the government. It will influence the voters. It is clear that the government will misuse the budget presentation and the President's Address to both the houses of parliament which is customary to make announcements, popular schemes, and also try to allure the voters," the Congress leader told ANI.
 
 The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), though not part of the opposition delegation that met EC officials, is also against the Union budget being presented before the state elections.
 
 AAP spokesman Ashutosh yesterday tweeted:
 
 
 
 
 
 The NCP's chief   also criticized the timing of the budget and said it shouldn't be held too close to the five states' polls and should be deferred, reported PTI.
 
 
 After the EC announced the dates for five state elections yesterday, opposition parties wrote to the poll watchdog as well as to President   asking they restrain the government from presenting the budget on February 1. They said the Modi government might use it to tip the scales in the BJP's favour by offering sops, which are forbidden under the model code of conduct. Parties have cited instances from the past when the budget was postponed because of elections. 
 
 However, finance minister   defended the government's decision to stick to the plan to present the Budget on February 1.
 
 The Bharatiya Janata Party also said it was a non-issue and slammed the opposition for politicising the government's constitutional duty.
 
 "The budget is a constitutional duty of the government and not related to any one state. The presentation of the budget is not a sudden decision rather it has been decided beforehand with prior information to the stake holders," said Union Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
