GURUGRAM: The   are planning to set up   in another 20 sectors across the city, after the success of a pilot project which was implemented in nine sectors, in a move that will also help decongest city roads to a large extent.

 The proposed vending zones will have drinking water facilities, proper street lights, concrete pavements, restroms and seating arrangements for customers or visitors. Under the project, aimed at creating a database of this unorganised sector, all vendors or   will be given specially designed, colourful carts to sell their wares in the specified zones.
 
 At a meeting on Friday,   selected sectors 5, 9, 10, 17, 18, 21, 22, 23, 28, 29, 37, 40, 41, 43, 44, 47, 48, 49, 51 and 52, where dedicated areas will be earmarked for street vendors.
 
 Sudhir Chauhan, MCG senior town planner ( ), said a fresh survey of the shortlisted sectors would be carried out, either by MCG or a private agency, to find out the number of street vendors who need to be relocated to the proposed vending zones. “Based on this, we’ll work out a detailed proposal for the vending zones in the 20 sectors,” he added. 
 
 Chauhan further said MCG might select new agencies — instead of those involved in the pilot project — to set up the new vending zones. “We’re not quite satisfied with the work of the four agencies in the pilot project. MCG will decide whether to hire new agencies or continue with the old ones,” he added.
 
 Under the pilot project, around 1,100 street vendors have been allocated space and carts at 54 vending zones across nine sectors, including 14, 37, 38 and 56. These vendors serve instant noodles, bread-omelets, rajma-chawal and other popular food items. Some vendors also sell fruit and vegetable salads. According to MCG officials, these vendors have been given special training on hygiene and cleanliness to maintain quality in the food they serve.
 
 Gurgaon’s project has been well received by many municipal corporations across the country. A 11-member team from Baroda and two-member teams from Chandigarh, Delhi and Mumbai municipal corporations have already visited the city to study this model.
 
 
