HYDERABAD: In a bonhomie unusual since the bitter bifurcation of Andhra Pradesh over three years ago, the two Telugu states on Thursday displayed a giveand-take and ensured that neither suffers on the issue of sharing water for irrigation and drinking purposes.Coming to the rescue of Telangana, the Andhra Pradesh government agreed to release water from   to quench the thirst of Hyderabadis. On its part,   agreed to release water to AP after it gets fresh inflows into the state.

 The decision was taken after a series of discussions between engineers-in-chief of both states, who finally agreed to share the remaining water available in Srisailam reservoir. While Telangana will get immediate relief due to AP providing it one TMC feet of water to augment supplies to Hyderabad city, AP would utilize one TMC feet water from the right bank canal of   at a later date.
 
 Supplies to Hyderabad have reduced as the water level in Nagarjunasagar has plummeted to below 503 feet forcing the water supply department to press high-powered motors in to service to pump water from 501 feet level. “When it came to our notice that Hyderabad and   were hit, we asked our officials to respond to Telangana's request. We have agreed to release water from Srisailam. The release will start any time,“ Devineni Umamaheswara Rao, AP irrigation minister told TOI.
 
 The water level in Srisailam has reached 780 feet against the full reservoir level of 885 feet leaving less than 2.5 TMC feet. Though AP agreed to go below 780 feet level, officials are not sure of the available water below that level due to the increased silt.
 
 Telangana has started receiving fresh inflows to   amounting to less than one TMC feet during the last two weeks. With high transmission loss between Jurala and Srisailam, the proposal to release the meagre inflows from Jurala was not recommended by officials. “We will ensure that AP utilizes its one TMC feet water share when there are sufficient inflows to Nagarjunasagar depending on their requirement.AP officials have agreed to release water to Nagarjunasagar from Thursday,“ C Muralidhar, engineer-in-chief of Telangana, told TOI. AP has already made a request to Telangana to provide water through the Nagarjunasagar right bank canal.
 
 Amid the bonhomie, fresh inflows started reaching Almatti dam. On Wednesday and Thursday, the dam received more than 15,000 cusecs of water from upper Krishan basin.
 
