NEW DELHI: The   Assembly elections will be held in seven phases, on February 11, 15, 19, 23 and 27 and on March 4 and 8, the 
  today. The Assembly elections in Goa and   will be held on February 4 and in   on February 15, the EC added. In  , the state polls will be in two phases, on March 4 and March 8.

 The counting of votes in all 
  is scheduled for March 11. 
 
 A total of 
  . More than 160 million voters will participate in these elections. Voting will be conducted in as many as one lakh 85,000 polling stations, up 15% from 2012. Electronic Voting Machines will be used in all states.
 
 By the time elections begin it will have been over two months since the 
  , and what the currency situation is at the time is likely to be one of the big factors that will come into play when citizens go to cast their vote.
 
 In Uttar Pradesh, the ruling Samajwadi Party is in a shambles, and even 
  may not inspire much confidence by the time the state goes to the polls. Political parties have been now and xx to cobble together any electoral alliances and the race looks wide open. 
 
 In Manipur, a big player this time around will be 
  who was on a fast for 16 years to demand the repeal of the Armed Forces Special Powers Act, or AFSPA. 
 
 Sharmila ended her fast in August last year and announced on Monday that she will take on Manipur chief minister Okram Ibobi Singh in the assembly polls. In the meanwhile, the United Naga Council (UNC)'s ongoing economic blockade on the two national highways of the state, and the commodity crisis in the state have led to unrest which has lasted as two months so far.
 
 In Punjab and Goa, this time around, the Aam Aadmi Party is making a play for power. AAP chief Arvind Kejriwal has been making frequent trips to both states.
 
  
  
 In Uttarakhand, the state unit of the Congress said earlier this week that it would contest polls on all 70 assembly seats in the state putting a question mark on the seats that its ally the Progressive Democratic Front will contest from. The Congress-PDF alliance was on shaky ground last year. After supporting the Congress during a crucial floor test, the PDF was eyeing a larger role in political matters. In the later part of the year, Congress-PDF ties again came under strain when Congress state chief Kishore Upadhyay demanded that PDF should make its stand on 2017 polls clear.
 
 The Centre has massive security planned for the upcoming election. The Union home ministry will provide around 85,000 security personnel for deployment in the five states.
 
 In addition, around 100 companies, most of which belong to State Armed Police Forces and India Reserve Battalions, will also be drawn from different states for deployment of election duties. A company of paramilitary force comprises around 100 personnel.
 
 
 
