AJMER: In what could be a gross inconvenience to the devotees, the   has decided to provide water during the Urs of Khwaja Moinuddin Chisty at commercial rates rather than domestic rates. The decision will make water four times costlier during Urs, which is expected to start in the last week of March. About five lakh devotees participate in the Urs and most of them belong to poor families in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Orissa.

 In an order released recently, the PHED department announced to impose charges for providing water to devotees staying at vishramsthalis at commercial rates. The vishramsthalis at Kayar and Chandwardai are maintained by the Ajmer Development Authority (ADA). PHED has asked ADA to pay the water bill on commercial rates as well as deposit about Rs 11 lakh for maintenance and monitoring of the water supply.
 
 ADA expressed displeasure at the issue and has decided to approach chief engineer of PHED department. “Supplying water to devotees is a social responsibility and imposing commercial charges on water is not right,” said  , chairman of ADA.
 
 He added that as per the domestic rates, 1000 litres of water costs Rs 3.3 but at commercial rates, the same quantity of water will cost Rs 22.5.
 
 Further, he said that there are already pipelines at vishramsthalis and, therefore, PHED does not have to invest anything but it is demanding odd Rs 11 lakh. “We will take up this matter to higher officials because water to devotees is a social responsibility,” said Heda.
 
 Moreover, the khadims of the dargah also showed protest against the PHED orders. 
 
 “Even electricity during Urs is not charged at commercial rates and the district administration even provides food to devotees on concessional rates. Charging for water at commercial rates will taint the image of   government by making it a saffron agenda,” said S F  , a khadim.
 
 Khadims stated that dargah is a place where devotees of all religions participate and, therefore, it is not right to make it a religious issue. 
 
 Sources said that the same PHED department before the commencing of Pushkar fair had arranged lakhs of litres of drinking water from Bisalpur for the parched Pushkar Lake but did not charge anything. 
 
 The executive engineer, city division, Sapat Ram Jingar said that rates during Urs are decided as per the government guidelines.
 
 Meanwhile, the preparations for Urs have started in Ajmer and railways is planning to start new trains for devotees. It has also decided to start two satellite railway stations at Madar and Daurai for passengers to avoid crowd on main railway station. Similarly, other departments have also initiated steps to facilitate large number of devotees coming to the dargah for Urs.
 
 
