JAIPUR: A 21-year-old girl, Shikha Tiwari, working as a disc jockey (DJ) at a  , was arrested by the   (SOG) of the state police for allegedly   and framing a city-based hair transplant doctor in a   in December last year.

 The SOG has been tracking her since December 2016 when her name cropped up after sleuths busted a honeytrap racket which was into blackmailing doctors, builders and others in the city .
 
 She had blackmailed the doctor and lodged an FIR against him, resulting in the former spending 78 days in jail before being acquitted.
 
 On December 24, 2016, the SOG had busted the extortion racket which had black mailed dozens of men with false rape allegations and fleeced them. “It was found that the arrested accused, identified as Shikha Tiwari, a native of Jaipur, was part of the gang that we busted in December. After her name cropped up, she disappeared from Jaipur and floated a musical group named DJ Ada,“ said Dinesh M N, inspector general of police, SOG, on Monday .
 
 Since December, the SOG has arrested almost 32 members of the gang, which had allegedly registered bogus rape cases and extorted money from prominent businessmen, doctors and builders for withdrawing the charges. “Her victim was Dr Sunit Soni, a hair transplant doctor, who runs a clinic in Vaishali Nagar. Shikha was introduced to the doctor for some hair transplant and later the she persuaded him to drive her to Puskhar stating that she was suffering from depression. Unaware of the trap, the doctor went to Pushkar. A day later, he was blackmailed by the gang, which included Akshat Sharma and Vijay Sharma, who demanded Rs 1 crore while introducing themselves as media persons. He was threatened with the bogus case of rape.“
 
 “An FIR for rape was also lodged at the Puskhar police station. The doctor was arrested and had to remain in jail for 78 days. Soni's father and brother had to pay Rs 1 crore to Shikha to withdraw her false statement in the court. Soni approached us and that's how we busted the gang,“ Dinesh added.
 
 After the SOG started making arrests, Shikha fled to Mumbai. “She was performing in a hotel when the SOG team arrested her.
 
 Shikha Tiwari was working as a disc jockey (DJ) at a Mumbai hotel
 
