NEW DELHI: Vexed at being sent to jail after a fight, a 30-year-old man decided to stage a shooting to frame his rival, but the tables turned on him and he fell into his own trap.

 The accused,  , had called the police at 11pm on Wednesday pretending to be the victim of a deadly attack. 
 
 He said that a man named   (60) had shot at him while he was parking his   outside his house in  . He added that the alleged shooter had threatened to attack him some time ago.
 
 Kumar sought   claiming that he felt unsafe and that he may be targeted by  ,   (28). 
 
 “Finding discrepancies in Kumar’s statement, a team led by SHO Sultanpuri Ashok Kumar recreated the crime scene and cracked the case within a couple of hours,” said deputy commissioner of police (outer) MN Tiwari.
 
 Giving his version of events to the police, Kumar said that after shooting at him, Manveer had stepped out of his vehicle and smashed his windshield. 
 
 The alleged attacker then ran towards his vehicle driven by an unrecognised man and sped away. The police then called Manveer and his son for questioning, but they vehemently denied being involved in any such crime.
 
 When the crime scene was recreated and Kumar was questioned sternly, he broke down and confessed to having shot at his car as he wanted to see Manveer or Satish behind bars. He wanted revenge for being jailed because of a fight with Satish two weeks ago. A case under IPC sections 107 (abetment) and 151 (unlawful assembly of over five people) had been lodged against Kumar after the fight.
 
 Police said that Kumar had bought the car two months ago. He wanted to rent out the car to earn money as he was unemployed. However, after his altercation with Satish, he planned to use the car as a tool to get Manveer and Satish in trouble. Kumar had even broken his car mirror with a brick to make the attack more obvious.
 
 An unlicensed 7.65mm pistol has been seized from Kumar. Cops are trying to ascertain where he procured it. CCTV footage of the area is being scanned to determine Kumar’s activities. A case under IPC and the Arms Act has been lodged against Kumar.
 
