The   has apparently managed the rather delicate balance between populism and fiscal prudence. Political expediency called for spending huge amounts on key constituencies like farmers and other rural sections while his fiscal commitments demanded that he not stray too far from the roadmap laid down for bringing down deficits. The numbers presented in the   would suggest he has achieved this. But what underlies this fine arithmetic? 

  The Budget documents say that the GDP is assumed to grow at 11.75% in nominal terms next year. That would presumably translate into a real growth rate of about 6.75% and inflation of around 5%, neither of which seems an unreasonable assumption. However, some of the other numbers don't quite seem to hang together with this scenario. 
 
  Consider the breakup of projected tax collections. Excise duties are projected to yield just 5% more than in 2016-17, corporation tax 9.1% more and even service tax only 11.1% over the current year's levels. All of this would suggest a modest economic performance. But individual income tax collections are estimated to rise by 24.9%. This is despite the fact that the FM said in his speech that he would stand to lose about Rs 15,500 crore from the changes made in personal income tax. 
 
  What explains this? The explanation could be that the government expects a huge impact on tax compliance thanks to its campaign against black money. Whether such optimism is borne out is something we will know only a year down the line. 
 
  While the Budget does not explicitly account for the impact of the implementation of GST a few months down the line, could it also be that the relatively depressed growth projections for excise and service tax reflect this? 
 
  The Budget arithmetic also rests on the assumption that proceeds from divestment will rise sharply from Rs 45,500 crore in the revised estimates (RE) for the current year to Rs 72,500 crore. This includes strategic disinvestment (read privatisation) to the tune of Rs 15,000 crore and Rs 11,000 crore from listing of insurance firms, both political hot potatoes. 
 
  A third important assumption is that while the food subsidy bill is likely to rise by about Rs 10,000 crore over the current year's level, the fertiliser subsidy will remain unchanged and petroleum subsidy will actually fall. Again, questions could be raised about how realistic this projection is when all indications are that international crude oil prices are set to climb. Incidentally, the break-up of this component suggests that the government will spend no more on cooking gas subsidy for poor households than it is in the current year. An interesting detail in the context of talk of the RBI using windfall gains from demonetisation to pay higher dividend to the government is that the head "dividends and surplus of RBI, nationalised banks and financial institutions" actually shows a lower amount for 2017-18 than for the current year.
 
