INDORE: Former MLA and   chairman Dhruvnarayan Singh was at the epicenter of a sordid tale of love and jealousy that finally led to the murder of RTI activist  . However, the   (CBI) could not produce evidence connecting him to the killing.

 Shehla was killed at the instance of Zahida, who wanted to take revenge on her for having ‘intimate’ relations with Dhruvnarayan, stated a prosecution claim that was upheld by the CBI court here on Saturday.
 
 CBI had found incriminating evidence of intimate relations of Dhruvnarayan with Zahida in CCTV grabs seized from her house. The court order said: “The CCTV recordings revealed the fact that it contained intimate scenes of MLA Dhruvnarayan Singh and   and they were of very sensitive in nature…”
 
 The court was approached with a plea that the graphic content should not be made public, the 92-page court order said.
 
 Special judge BK Paloda observed in the order: “Besides this (CCTV recordings), neither did CBI have adequate evidence to link Dhruvnarayan with the case (Shehla’s murder), nor was he in contact with the accused during and before the incident. The only fact that came to fore was that he had illicit relations with the deceased and accused Zahida and other women.”
 
 A former Ranji cricketer and son of former MP chief minister Govind Narayan Singh, Dhruv Narayan was an MLA from the Bhopal (Central) constituency. He was also the chairman of Bhopal Development Authority.
 
 Dhruvnarayan was approached by TOI for his comments on the revelations in the court order -- to which he claimed that he will reply at a later date.
 
 Prosecution nailed the love, lust and revenge theory that led to the murder through records of Zahida’s personal diary – the handwriting on which was declared by experts as that of Zahida’s.
 
 The court order carried transcripts of diary entries produced by the prosecution that showed Zahida was distressed with Dhruvnarayan’s relations with Shehla and other women. “Mujhe ye cheez mare daal rahi hai ki uske Shehla, Mahira sabhee se ab tak relations hai simultaneously. (It is killing me that he has relations with Shehla, Mahira even now, simultaneously).”
 
 The prosecution also quoted from Zahida’s diaries that mentioned: “Wo bahut sari jagah jate hein (he goes to lot of places), physically related with so many other women but I can’t help it.”
 
 Zahida, who spoke to reporters after the judgment was pronounced, claimed that the CBI had twisted facts when they quoted from her diary. “It is my official diary. I don’t write such things in it. The CBI had produced garbage before the court,” she alleged.
 
