MELBOURNE:   may have notched up a couple of 'oldest man' records en route to his five-set win over tennis' marathon man   on Sunday, but at 35 - eager and electric - the 17-time Grand Slam champion is flirting with 'boyish'.

 After closing out the fourth round clash 6-7 (4-7), 6-4, 6-1, 4-6, 6-3 in 3 hours and 24 minutes the father of four - on a comeback trail after being sidelined by injury for six months missing most of last season - leaped into the Melbourne night in celebration. At 35 years and 174 days, the four-time winner here is the oldest man to reach the quarterfinals at the   since   in 1978.
 
 A little before he took the Rod Laver Arena the Swiss, who thumped 24 aces, tweeted a clip of tennis' 'boy band', where  , Grigor Dimitrov and the man whose play makes music, are horribly out of sync, grappling with Chicago's 'Hard to say I'm sorry'. Later, Federer said that while he had got the pitch wrong, 'Grigor only looks good and can't sing'. Just as well that Federer's game was on song.
 
 Up against Nishikori, 27, who had never lost a five-set match at Melbourne Park, coming into the last four clash (4-0) and had stacked up an impressive 15-5 record overall, only Federer wasn't paying attention. Nishikori, who started like a man in a hurry, taking a 4-0, 5-2 lead before Federer punched his way back into the contest. But it was Nishikori who won the tie-break in the rollercoaster set to take the early lead.
 
 Nishikori, one of the best returners in tennis, won only 20 percent of the points on Federer's second serve as the Swiss wrapped up the next two sets and had chances to get ahead in the fourth. Federer then refused to be pegged back in the decider as Nishikori took a medical timeout for a lower back problem. While the Japanese lay on the court, wincing while being tended to, the 35-year-old was bouncing up and down on the baseline.
 
 Federer, who will play Murray's conqueror, serve-and-volley artist Mischa Zverev in the quarterfinals, registered his 200th win over a top-10 player on Sunday. “It's great, I guess. I didn't know it going into the match,” Federer said. “I just know I played a lot of tennis. I ran a lot. Obviously want to play really well against the best players. I was able to do that sometimes.”
 
