NAGPUR: The victory of women candidates in open seats shows that the two major political parties — BJP and Congress — made the right move to woo their targeted voters.

 BJP’s Parineeta Fuke, Swati Akhatkar and Vandana Bhagat as well as Sayyada Begum of Congress emerged winners.
 
 Eight women had taken up the challenge by contesting against men in the NMC elections held on February 21. Of the total 151 seats, 76 are reserved for women and 75 for men from which women can also contest. In the last term, the number of women corporators was 74, while 71 were men. This time, the number of women corporators too was reserved to 76, while 75 for open category. So this time, NMC will be having 80 woman corporators.
 
 BJP had fielded four women candidates — Fuke, Akhatkar, Bhagat and Sadhana Barde — in men’s seats. The saffron party had fielded 80 female and 71 male candidates for 151 seats. Congress had pitched three women candidates — Sayyada Begum, Saraswati Salame and Rashmi Dhurve — against men. Accordingly, the secular party had fielded 79 female and 72 male candidates.
 
 NCP too had given a chance to one woman candidate — Sujata Gajbhiye — from men’s seat. Thus, the party had 77 females and 74 males in the fray. But Sujata lost to Parineeta in ward no. 13.
 
 Thanks to 50% reservation, women may have been able to increase their numeric strength in the NMC. But it is unlikely that the quota will ensure women to attain political empowerment in a true sense. Though the number of women corporators has increased, they end up being mere faces of their politically active husbands.
 
 Senior women corporators admitted that hardly 20% women corporators are active in the civic body. According to many woman corporators, they were actually discriminated against by the civic administration when it comes to allocation of funds for wards represented by them.
 
 “The rule has not brought about decentralization of power and gender equality for woman corporators. Male counterparts dominate us. They are allotted bigger share of funds for development projects in their wards,” they said.
 
