COIMBATORE: Three youths were sentenced to two life terms and 30 years rigorous imprisonment each by the special court for bomb blast cases here on Thursday for murdering a powerloom unit owner and his daughter. The   also attempted to murder the man’s wife and another daughter at the powerloom unit at Kumarapalayam village near Sulur on December 24, 2014.

 Justice  , in his judgment, said there is no need to show mercy to the accused. The sentence will run consecutively.
 
 K Rakkiyappan, 55, the powerloom unit owner, his wife Sarojini and younger daughter Usha, 23, used to work in the unit. In December 2014, Rakkiyappan approached an agent to hire a worker for the company. The agent sent A Kumar alias Udhayakumar, a native of Karuppukatti village near Nanguneri in Tirunelveli district. He was hired for Rs 600 per day as wage. A few days later, he demanded Rs 50,000 from Rakkiyappan as advance, which he promised to repay after three months. But Rakkiappan refused to give the amount.
 
 One day, Udhayakumar brought two of his friends S Paraman, alias Paramasivan, of Karuppukatti village and M Syed alias   of Puliyankudi in Tirunelveli district to the powerloom unit. When Rakkiyappan asked Udhayakumar not to bring strangers to the powerloom unit, he said they would assist him and would join the unit after learning the work. 
 
 On December 24, 2014, Rakkiyappan’s elder daughter came to Kumarapalayam along with her child and stayed with her parents. The same night, around 8.45, when the three youths went to the powerloom unit, Rakkiyappan asked them to leave. But the trio argued with Rakkiyappan and his daughters Vanitha, alias Vinodhini, and Usha and started attacking them with deadly weapons. They stabbed Rakkiyappan and Vantiha. Usha was also attacked and she raised an alarm. On hearing the cries, Rakkiyappan’s wife rushed to the spot and she was also stabbed. Hearing the commotion, workers from other powerloom units rushed to the spot. By then the trio fled from the crime scene. 
 
 Rakkiyappan and Vanitha were rushed to a private hospital where they died without responding to the treatment. Sarojini and Usha were treated in the hospital. The Sulur police registered a case under Sections 302 (two counts), 307 (two counts) and 449 (house trespass in order to commit offence punishable with death) of the Indian Penal Code. 
 
 The trio was taken to the Coimbatore central prison by a team of police from the special court on Thursday afternoon.
 
 
