They have made it to the semi-finals in the past two seasons, but haven’t been able to surge beyond. They have the players, the temperament, the planning and all that is required to bring the coveted kabaddi trophy home, but not in the right mix. Team Hyderabad is now keen to put the past behind them and are raring to change things once and for all. And by comprehensibly thrashing newbies Team Chennai in their opening encounter on Friday, the the Men In Yellow proved that they mean nothing but business.
 “The experienced players will bring in their inputs to the table and we are 
 hopeful to win the title this season. Yes, I have identified the strengths and weaknesses of all players, and kabaddi being a team game, everyone will shoulder equal responsibilities based on every situation in a game,” says coach PVSV Sai Prasad. 
 
 
 A popular sport in the Hindi hinterland, kabaddi is often considered a North Indian sport. With majority of the players in the South Indian teams hailing from North Indian belt, the argument seems to hold some water. So, did language pose a hurdle for the   team? “The atmosphere is nice and friendly in the dressing room. Though they are no local players in the team, everybody is comfortable with each other and Hindi language. Language has never been a problem for us,” says Rahul. 
 “Even though people say that the sport is mostly played in  , it is popular in the South. I know they play it in many villages and towns here,” opines Maharastra-born raider  .
 
 
 With an amicable atmosphere in the dressing room and a no-compromise attitude towards preparations, can we hope the Men in Yellow to do better than the previous seasons this time? “The boys have shown good strength and temperament in the past four seasons. Coming to season five, we are stronger than before with the addition of a few senior players. We are confident to lay our hands on the cup this year,” says Rahul. 
 This season the competition has intensified with the addition of four new teams. Is team Hyderabad happy with their team configuration? Says Coach Prasad, “All teams seem to be equal in terms of players in the teams. Now it’s all about strategy and on-field spirit.”
 A few years ago, kabaddi was only a medium to clinch a sure shot gold in the Asian Games for most Indians. But, today with the advent of the  , the sport has got a shot in the arm. That’s not all, as players today are feeling financially better off and are happy about choosing a sport which, not so long ago was crying for attention. “The league has made us stars overnight. Today, we are financially more secure and happy than before,” says all-rounder  . 
 
 
 
 The Hyderabadi crowd has always 
 supported and encouraged its team. The yellow hue that emanates from the stadiums every time Team Hyderabad takes to the turf is a testimony that the team has a strong fan following in the city. So, what difference does it make to the team? “The Hyderabad crowd has always been super supportive to us. We have been invincible in our home games throughout the past seasons. Till date, Team Hyderabad is the most popular team compared to other teams across the country. And we have a game-changer in Rahul Chaudhari,” says Rakesh, before signing off.
 
 " The atmosphere is nice and friendly in the dressing room. Though they are no local players in the team, everybody is comfortable with each other and Hindi language. Language has never been a problem for the Telugu Titans," says, Rahul Chaudhari, raider
 
 " The Hyderabad crowd has always been super supportive to the Telugu Titans. We have been invincible in our home games throughout the last seasons. And we have a game-changer in Rahul Chaudhari," says, Rakesh Kumar, all-rounder.
 
 " Kabaddi being a team game, all players will shoulder equal responsibilities based on every situation in a game. The experienced players will bring in their inputs to the table and we are hopeful to get the PKL trophy home this season," says, PVSV Sai Prasad, coach.
 
 "Even though people say that kabaddi is mostly played in Northern India, it is popular in the South. I know they play it in many villages and towns here," says, Nilesh Salunke, raider 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
