Nagpur: It’s over six months now but the Nagpur University fact-finding committee for investigating into alleged molestation case, that rocked its Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Law College, is yet to complete the enquiry. The panel was granted 15 days to complete it, but panel secretary Shrikant Komawar, who is also principal of same college, stated that there was no response from both sides after the first hearing. An LLB final year student had lodged a molestation complaint on October 8 against a senior lecturer, who is also a practicing lawyer at Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court and is well known in legal circles. The teacher allegedly took her on a long drive on Amravati Road, and made advances when the vehicle was stopped at a secluded place. He also touched her at various parts before she raised an alarm and warned him of lodging a police complaint, after which he dropped her home. After she narrated the plight to her parents, they lodged a complaint with the principal next day. “We conducted first hearing few days after panel was constituted, where we heard both sides. The accused lecturer wanted to cross-examine the survivor during next hearing. However, she sought time as her university examinations were approaching,” Komawar told TOI. The panel stopped working for about couple of months and again issued notice to both parties to remain present for second hearing. In the meantime, accused lecturer had gone ahead and even published a book. “However, none of them responded. Without their testimonies, we can’t move ahead. Since the girl is not from here, it’s quite difficult to reach her. I get a sense that the survivor was not keen on pursuing the complaint, keeping her future in mind,” Komawar said. The panel was constituted on October 15 by the NU administration under former head of Botony Department Prof Alka Chaturvedi. The members, including assistant professor at NU Commerce Department Anant Deshmukh and Komawar, were directed to grant full hearing to both sides as per the principles of natural justice. It was formed after Komawar, in his preliminary report, disclosed that there was prima facie involvement of accused teacher, who was heard apologizing the survivor on mobile, next day after the incident. Subsequently, the service of accused lecturer was discontinued from same day, as he was on contract. NU was supposed to decide on future course of action like reporting to the Bar Council of India (BCI) based on outcome of this report. Surprisingly, higher authorities, including VC, pro-VC and registrar also failed to take the follow up of issue that brought disgrace to the college, an alma mater to host of past and present legal luminaries, including judges and lawyers. Registrar Puran Meshram told TOI every time that he would seek information from panel members, but failed to do so till date.