JALANDHAR: Even as the Indian government has “rejected” the motion passed by the legislative assembly of   province, terming it “misguided,” AAP, DSGMC and The   have not only welcomed it but also asked the Indain government to recognise the massacre of Sikhs in November 1984 in Delhi and other parts of the country as “genocide.”

 They have also reminded the Union government of home minister Rajnath Singh’s statement of December 2014, calling the massacre “genocide.” Senior advocate and leader of opposition in Punjab assembly H S Phoolka, who has been waging a legal battle for getting justice for the victims of the anti-Sikh violence, demanded that the Indian government should recognize killing of Sikhs in November 1984 as genocide and apply all genocide laws and punish the guilty.
 
 President of the DSGMC Manjit Singh GK on Saturday demanded that BJP-led government should bring a similar motion in parliament in this regard. “These were certainly not riots but a   government supported genocide of a minority community,” he maintained.
 
 Welcoming the Ontario assembly’s resolution, Phoolka said they were not Hindus who killed Sikhs but it was state-sponsored terrorism carried out with the active involvement of state agencies. Many Hindu families saved Sikhs, he maintained. “I was myself saved by a Hindu family during that violence. It is surprising that the government is protesting against terming the massacre genocide,” he said.
 
 “Why should BJP-led government try to protect the Congress government of that time, especially when BJP leaders have been saying that Sikhs were killed at the behest of the Congress government. Home minister Rajnath Singh used the expression ‘genocide’,” said Manjit Singh GK.
 
 In a statement issued on Saturday, The Sikh Forum while distributing cheques of compensation in Tilak Vihar, a resettlement colony of widows of 1984, also recalled the statement of BJP leader  , who is now the Union minister for human resource development, of January 28, 2014, in which he had said, “1984 was a ‘genocide’ and pre-planned. It was executed by the ruling government.” 
 
 Forum general secretary Partap Singh, a retired deputy inspector general of police, said, “Are the Sikhs only a vote bank and 1984 a political football to be tossed around at the election time? We reiterate our demand that the parliament should apologise to the Sikh community for the 1984 genocide and withdraw its statement of yesterday. Besides, both Sushma Swaraj and Rajnath Singh had attended the foundation laying ceremony for the ‘November 1984 Sikh Genocide Memorial’ at Gurdwara Rakab Ganj in New Delhi in 2013.”
 
