CHANDIGARH: Seven candidates of  , including two women, were elected to the assembly of  , Canada's third most  , as the poll results were declared on Wednesday. In the 2013 BC provincial elections, three Punjabi MLAs had made it to the house of 87. 

 Among the Punjabi MLAs are a hockey Olympian and a journalist while three managed to retain their seats. Ravi Kahlon, who represented Canada in the 2000 (Sydney) and 2008 (Beiing) Olympics, got elected from Delta North riding (constituency) as the New Democratic Party (NDP) candidate. 
 
 Jas Sohal of the ruling Liberal party, who worked as a TV reporter for Global TV for two decades, won from the Richmond-Queensborough constituency.
 
  (NDP), Jagrup Brar (Liberal) and Raj Chauhan (NDP) were among the Punjabi MLAs who retained their seats after winning from Surrey-Newton, Surrey-Fleetwood and Burnaby-Edmonds constituencies. Jinny Sims and Rachna Singh, both from NDP, were the Punjabi women leaders to get elected to the BC provincial assembly from Surrey-Panorama and Surrey-Green Timbers constituencies respectively.
 
 However, another Punjabi Amrik Virk, a minister in the BC government, lost to NDP candidate Garry Begg in the new riding of Surrey-Guildford. Virk was the minister for technology, innovation and citizen's services. There were 24 candidates of the Indian-origin in fray for the BC assembly.
 
 Two-time MLA and former BC minister Harbhajan Singh alias Harry Lali of NDP also lost in his bid to get reelected to the assembly. Lali, who hails from Jalandhar, lost to sitting MLA Jackie L Tegart of the Liberal party by 706 votes. Brar, Bains and Chauhan will be serving their fourth term as the MLAs in BC assembly.
 
 Former Canadian minister  , a resident of Vancouver, served as the first Punjabi premier of BC from 2000 to 2001. Canadian minister of national defence Harjit Singh Sajjan is also an MP from Vancouver South parliamentary constituency. As per the 2016 census, there over 4.68 lakh Sikhs in Canada out of which 2.01 lakh live in British Columbia.
 
