MUMBAI: A sticker on the rear window of an   that was involved in a   a month ago proved to be the clue that has now led to the errant driver's arrest.In the accident, a 60-yearold woman was killed. The clue was provided to the police by a taxi driver who witnessed the incident.

 The arrested man is Sandeep Narmale, a cabbie Sandeep Narmale, a cabbie who ferries fisherwomen from Sassoon Docks to CST every morning. On March 28, around 4am, Colaba Wadi resident Ranjana Govind Jadhav was crossing SBS Road near Electric House when a van hit her. “The driver, instead of helping, fled towards Cooperage. A taxi driver, who is now a witness in the case, told us that the accident was caused by an Omni van, which had the sticker of a deity on its rear window,“ said a police officer.
 
 Just after the accident, the police took the injured woman to Saint George Hospital near CST, where she was declared dead. The police learnt later that the woman was mentally unsound and used to walk in the middle of the road in the dark. The police registered an accidental death report under the IPC's section 304-A (causing death by negligence) and 279 (rash and negligent driving), and started looking for the then unknown driver.
 
 The police then found a CCTV camera near Electric House and recovered footage of the incident. “But the images of the van were blurred. We could not gather what the registration number was. The taxi driver who gave us the sticker clue then jogged his memory and told us that a part of the registration number was MHO6. This was enough for us to trace the van and nab the accused. We already knew that the colour of the van was silver,“ the officer said.
 
 During the investiga tion, the police found an abandoned van with a shining new rear window and also new number plates. “The van aroused our suspicion.So we called the taxi driver, who immediately identified it as the van involved in the accident,“ the officer said.The police eventually learnt that the van belonged to Narmale, who lived at Sunderi Nagar, Colaba. He was arrested and produced at a local court, which remanded him in judicial custody.
 
