GURUGRAM: Badshapur MLA Rao Narbir Singh seems to have fallen in line, apparently following a diktat from the senior BJP leadership, clearing the decks for   to become the next mayor of Gurgaon.

 Despite having support of 12 councillors, Narbir decided not to stage a show of strength on Thursday, a day after Gurgaon MP Rao Inderjit brought six Independent councillors into the BJP fold, handing the party a majority in the MCG House. At least two more Independent candidates apparently met Rao Inderjit in Delhi on Thursday and extended their support. However, they are yet to be inducted into the party formally.
 
 While Rao Inderjit has been backing the candidature of Azad, who won the ward 7 on a BJP ticket, for the mayor’s chair, Narbir was favouring Sheetal Bagri, who bagged the ward 10 as an Independent. “The party will decide the next mayor,” Narbir said on Thursday.
 
 According to sources, the party has made it amply clear that the Gurgaon mayor will have to be someone, who contested and won the poll on a BJP ticket.
 
 “By getting the BJP to the majority mark, Rao Inderjit has brushed aside charges of anti-party campaigning during the civic poll levelled against him. On the other hand, Narbir has realised that he will not succeed in persuading the party and the sangh to allow a candidate who has not contested on the party symbol to become the mayor. The senior party leadership feels it will be an embarrassment if it fails to find one of its own for the mayor’s post,” said a BJP leader.
 
 Now, party insiders claimed, Narbir would have to be content with having someone from his camp in the post of senior deputy mayor.
 
 “A meeting is likely to be held in the first week of October to select the mayor through consensus. While Madhu Azad is most likely to become the next mayor, the names of senior deputy mayor and deputy mayor will be decided at the meeting,” said another party leader.
 
 Meanwhile,  , an Independent who lost in the ward 10, and  , who lost on a BJP ticket in the ward 22, blamed Rao Inderjit and Rao Narbir and election officials for their lose. “The assistant returning officer in my ward did not do the counting process properly. My agents were kept out of the counting booth purposefully. I suspect that Rao Narbir had a role in all these,” claimed Bhardwaj. Kataria, on the other hand, said, “I have proof that Rao Inderjit’s men campaigned against me though I was an official candidate.”
 
