BENGALURU: Every time it rains, a nightmare unravels on  , as   starts frothing, sending chunks of foam on to the thoroughfare. On Friday, the road saw a virtual bandh, with shopkeepers downing shutters as they were unable to tolerate the smell and tufts of foam flying around.

 “The pungent smell is tough to live with. Even the scene at neighbouring Yamalur Lake was bad. Every time this leads to traffic chaos and health concerns,“ said K Elangovan, member of Whitefield Rising. One can't even see the road and chances of accidents are high, say residents.
 
 C Govindaraju, a coconut vendor, has had his stall right next to the lake for 30 years.However, on Friday , he couldn't set up his stall. “I couldn't even stand near it; the stench was so terrible,“ he said.
 
 Govindaraju, a resident of  , said the polluted lake causes allergy and redness of eyes. Ditto with M Srinivas, a merchant who has his shop near the lakebed. “We alerted the civic authorities to get tankers to spray water and control the foam. But none turned up. The foam reduced by the afternoon. But many shops remained shut,“ he said.
 
 Civic authorities are yet take concrete action, rue residents. “We visited Varthur Lake on Thursday. We are working on installing a 20-ft wire mesh around Bellandur Lake to prevent foam from entering the road. Similar work will be taken up at Varthur,“ said a   assistant engineer.
 
 
 
 
 Illegal construction and encroachment of lakebeds resulted in Bengaluru having to deal with floods last year. More recently, a huge fire erupted on Bellandur Lake ­ another reminder of the pathetic condition of Bengaluru's lakes.The frothing of Varthur Lake is merely an index of the negligent attitude of the authorities concerned, who appear to be oblivious of the plight of the waterbodies. That Varthur Lake has frothed after a brief spell of rain indicates how unprepared the civic agencies are for the monsoon. The soaring temperatures in the city point to the imminent need to conserve our lakes, nature's most effective heat sinks, and the agencies need to act post-haste to prevent them from dying.
 
