VARANASI: On February 10, Seer Gowardhanpur, the birthplace of great saint of  , will witness a sea of Ravidasiyas (followers of the saint) mostly Dalits from Punjab on his  . But, what will be missing this year is the presence of VVIPs like Prime Minister   and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, who visited the place during his 639th Jayanti last year. 

 Their last year visits were seen as an attempt to woo the Ravidasiyas, who are in a sizeable number in Punjab and other North Indian states, ahead of 2017 Punjab Assembly elections. The saint commands a large following in Punjab and other places. But, as the polling in Punjab is scheduled on February 4, before the saint's Jayanti (on February 10), no leaders are expected to visit the place this year to offer obeisance at the Sant Ravidas Temple. Both BJP and AAP camps have no information about the visits of their leaders. 
 
 There is no programme of PM's visit to Seer Govardhanpur on Guru  , the BJP spokesperson of Kashi Kshetra Sanjay Bhadwaj told to TOI on Tuesday. There are already a number of engagements in elections, he said. Similarly, the east UP convener of AAP Sanjeev Singh also has no idea of Kejriwal's plan. "As of now, we have no information about it, I can say anything only after consulting him," said Singh, who was in Punjab with other AAP colleagues for electioneering. 
 
 "We have not invited them or any other politician this year, but we welcome all if they want to offer prayer at the temple," said Gyan Chand, who belongs to Punjab and looks after the affairs of Sri Guru Ravidas Janm Sthan Mandir Public Charitable Trust here. The groups of sevadaars (volunteers) from Punjab started coming here from Tuesday but the chairman of the Trust and head of Dera Sach Khand Ballan, Jalandhar, Sant Niranjan Dasji Maharaj along with scores of devotees will arrive here on February 8 by a special train   that will stay in the yard here till February 11, he said. About 2,500 NRIs are also arriving to offer prayers. Over 4000 volunteers from Punjab will be there to assist the visiting people. 
 
 Prithvichand, a sevadar from Hoshiarpur (Punjab) who has been here for last six years, was busy in making arrangements for the accommodation and food for the visiting devotees at the makeshift tents in the mela ground. District magistrate Yogeshwar Ram Mishra and other officials visited the place on Monday to take stock of security arrangements. 
 
