PUNE: A spate of trees being cut on   over the past few weeks have angered local residents and environment activists from the area, who allege that the civic body and the   are not doing enough to enforce the Tree (Preservation and Protection) Act, 1975. 

 Some of them have even taken to social media platforms to turn the authorities’ attention towards the issue.
 
 The alarm was raised by Sachin Ghule, a member of Vasundhara Swachhata Abhiyan, who spotted large groups of men and women chopping away three to four fully-grown trees on Pashan Hill behind   and Moraya Residency on Sus Road last Sunday. Ghule, who lives close to the spot, expressed concern about the increasing number of such sightings.
 
 Sharing details of the regular pattern of tree cutting around the area, Ghule said, “Earlier, people would take away a few dry stems and branches. But it’s alarming that now they are brazen about chopping off entire trees. I have tried to scare them away a few times, but this is emerging to be a big business because this can be sold as wood-fuel to people. Most of these people are construction workers.”
 
 Raising an alarm about the declining tree cover in the area, Ghule added, “This racket extends all along the hills from Bavdhan to Baner. I fear this area will turn into a slum, just like Taljai Tekdi in Parvati area. What is worse is that the forest and garden department pass the blame on to each other.”
 
 Surveillance of the area is the only way to prevent this, said  , another environment activist in the area. “We have been following up on this matter for the last three years, hoping the authorities will do some fencing or deploy some guards to scare away miscreants. We have also given a representation to the Tree Authority several times to prevent forest fires and tree cutting on Baner and Pashan Hills but no one is taking this issue seriously,” he said.
 
 Responding to an enquiry about possible ways to tackle the problem, Tree Officer (Zone 12) Preeti Sinha said, “Some portion of the 591 acres of the hill area is under litigation and, thus, out of bounds. We can definitely protect the remaining area. We will send notices to the builders operating nearby about their labourers violating the rules.” 
 
 
