KOCHI:   disposal is becoming rampant in the forests and the river Periyar, says a joint inspection report filed before the   by Kerala State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) and Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). 

 The report recently uploaded on the website said that   have failed in collection and disposal of waste. Municipal solid waste (MSW) is being dumped near forest check posts.
 
 The reports were filed on the NGT orders following a representation by Justice R Bhaskaran which was taken up suo motu as a writ petition. The reports had pointed out the rampant dumping of hospital waste and slaughter house waste into the river Periyar.
 
 Following the report, KSPCB filed Action Taken Report and sent notices to various persons and hospitals on NH-49 between Neriyamangalam and Pallivasal along the Periyar.
 
 Likewise, in respect of state highway-44 between Aluva and Idukki Road, the committee inspected the Panamkutty to Neriyamangalam passing through Kanjikuzhy panchayat and Vannapuram panchayat. There are 19 healthcare facilities in and around the area were identified. Out of which 16 are the members of Image, Palakkad and two of them are having their own facility.
 
 The report states that in the areas covered in the NH-49 and SH-44 there are water falls being used by the tourists and enormous quantity of bio-medical wastes were found to be thrown by the unidentifiable people during day and night as it is a dense forest and the population is also very low. 
 
 The packed bio- medical waste and other municipal solid waste are being thrown into deep slopes which are not identifiable very easily. 
 
 The team observed indiscriminate illegal dumping of MSW in several locations which falls under forest area along NH -49 and SH 44 road stretches, mostly are uninhabited forest area. Illegal dumping of bio-medical waste observed only in two locations along NH-49. One location was near to Valara waterfalls and the other one near Koompanpara, Adimaly.
 
 The report said that on SH-44, enormous quantity of MSW illegally dumped continuously in a 5 km stretch along with several types of solid wastes like slaughter waste (poultry), animal skeleton/ bone, market waste, disposable catering items, construction waste, plastic wastes, glass waste, huge quantity of discarded fabrics (Polyester screen), refrigerator insulator waste, (PUF), paint container waste, ceramics waste, electronic trash wastes etc.
 
 The MSW disposed along the road stretches are meticulously packed and disposed. It was identified that the wastes are from hotels, resorts, market, other commercial ventures, etc. All along the NH 49 road stretch sold waste like plastic bottles, napkins, food waste from tourist activity was also observed and there was no waste collection bins provided by the local authorities in this stretch. Wastes such as plastic, electronic trash, etc. which are either not recyclable nor fetches resale value were also found extensively in certain locations which may be dumped by recyclers too, the report said.
 
