KOLHAPUR: Private doctors shut their clinics on Thursday in support of the demands of   ( ), who are on mass leave since Monday demanding better security.

 The   along with all the associations of medical practitioners said they will open the clinics only after state government provides security to the resident doctors. However, emergency services will be available at the hospitals.
 
 Medical services in the city were not affected as 117 doctors attached to Rajarshee Chhatrapati Shahu Maharaj Government Medical College, including professors, assistant professors and associate professors, have taken charge of the all the departments to treat the patients. 
 
 Sanjay Shinde, resident deputy collector, Kolhapur, said all the speciality hospitals and major hospitals continued to treat patients and they have not received any complaint from anyone regarding doctors not treating patients. “The   hospital authorities have told us that the hospital is functioning to its full capacity. We are taking review of the medical services in the city and expect that the doctors will resume duty within one or two days,” he said. 
 
 Around 200 members of   and MARD members had on Thursday organised a morcha in city to protest against the state government for their demands of security while on duty. The morcha began at Dasara chowk near Chhatrapati Pramila Raje (CPR) civil hospital and culminated at district collector's office. A memorandum of their demands was submitted to Shinde, who assured them to convey their message to the state government. 
 
 KMA president Praveen Hendre said, “There is a need to provide security to these resident doctors. No one can perform well when their life is under threat. Along with this, the state government should fill up all the vacant posts in the government hospitals so that the pressure on the resident doctors is eased. The medical fraternity from Kolhapur stands with the resident doctors and we will continue to shut the clinics till our demands are not met.”
 
 D Ramanand, dean of the CPR civil hospital, said the situation at the hospital is normal as all the teaching staff from the college is on duty. “There is a strain but we are providing service to the patients visiting the hospital. As a precautionary measure, we have postponed some surgeries that can be performed but continue to conduct the essential surgeries and operations like caesarean. A total of 14 such operations were conducted in last two days,” he said. 
 
 Four more resident doctors resumed duty on Thursday and now only 87 are on strike. About 109 interns who are completing their internship and are on strike, their period of internship will be extended by the number of days they are absent. 
 
 The department concerned will decide on any disciplinary action to be taken against them, he said. 
 
