MUMBAI: The fraternity of obesity surgeons said the tragic outcome in the extraordinary case of   will not dissuade them from operating on “many more Emans“ in the future, although many said they would approach things differently . When Eman landed in Mumbai in February , weighing nearly 500kg, she was suffering from severe lymphedema and water retention. She had already suffered a stroke resulting in paralysis of her right arm and leg, had type 2 diabetes, hypertension, hypothyroidism, severe obstructive and restrictive lung disease. She couldn't speak coherently .

 The decision to operate on her was a topic of hot debate in medical circles since she touched down on February 11. Some doctors had even predicted a lifeline of six months to a year, given her obesity-related complications. “In retrospect, the question is, did Eman ever stand a chance? The case was surrounded by too many non-medical events and intense speculation, which could have had an impact, or she could have simply died of complications. The an swer probably lies in introspection so that we can have better outcomes,“ said a senior obesity surgeon.
 
 Eman underwent a laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy , where 23rd of her stomach was removed, within a month of being flown into Mumbai. “Doctors don't know too many details about this case, since it was mostly discussed with the media and never quite with the fraternity. But, from whatever information is out in the public domain, I would have probably waited for her lymphedema (water retention) to resolve before performing the procedure,“ said obesity surgeon Dr  . “I would have also insisted on following up the patient for at least a year.“
 
 While several surgeons harped on the same point, Dr  , director of bariatric and metabolic surgery at Wockhardt Hospital, Mumbai Central, said it would be assumptive to say the patient was not prepped. “Better preparedness, advanced anesthesia drugs and equipment, are some of the reasons why bariatric sur geries in India have become safer,“ he said.
 
 Dr Goel said there is an overemphasis on the weight of morbidly obese patients, rather than adequate understanding of the surgical intricacies. “Surgery can be done in any weight range. We have had 300kg patients going home without complications, but have seen a 100kg patient suffering from post-operative issues. If one case had complications, the whole specialty can't be put under the scanner,“ he said.Quoting statistics, he said that if 60-70% of patients needed ICU care due to anesthesia in 2000, less than 1% need it now. “Now, patients are conscious within five minutes, unlike 48-72 hours taken earlier. Deaths too are extremely rare; it's about 0.05% or one in 2,000 patients.“
 
 India does not have a national registry to back up these numbers and they mostly reflect individual centres' outcomes. Bariatric surgeon Dr Shashank Shah said Eman's case has imparted both medical and social lessons. “As doctors, it's our duty to try and save every patient, but we need to introspect if spending Rs 70-80 lakh to shift just one patient amounts to optimum utilization of resources.“
 
