PATNA: The state government on Thursday suspended senior   official   for allegedly   for the scheduled caste/tribe students between 2013 and 2014. 

 The state vigilance department had lodged an FIR against Raju, the then principal secretary of schedule castes and schedule tribes welfare department, the then special secretary of the department Suresh Paswan, assistant director (computer) Indrajeet Mukherjee, subdivisional welfare officer Vidhan Chandra Rai and block welfare officer  . They were booked under relevant sections of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Prevention of Corruption Act on November 29 last year. Raju was posted as the additional member of the Board of Revenue.
 
 The sources said the vigilance officials will grill Raju soon and axe may fall on some more officials.
 
 Besides these officials, FIR has also been lodged against Gonna Institute of Information Technology and Sciences, Vishakhapatnam, Guntur Engineering College and six touts from Patna who run educational consultancies, for the embezzlement of crores of rupees of the scholarship funds granted by the central government for the studies of SC/ST students.
 
 The vigilance sources said Raju, a 1991 batch Bihar cadre IAS official, in connivance with several private colleges, embezzled scholarship money in crores even before the period (2013-14) under investigation. 
 
 “Touts and officials used to pick up youths from remote villages of Bihar and enrol them in several private colleges across Bihar and the country. Later, these youths returned to their respective places, but the officials kept withdrawing scholarship money from the government funds in their names,” said a senior vigilance officer, adding that these funds were handed over to the colleges as the youths were recorded as their students and their fake results were shown in the college records.
 
 The vigilance officer also said the funds meant for SC/ST students were later distributed among the touts and officials. 
 
 NOT FOR THE FIRST TIME
 
 SM Raju had also landed in a soup earlier. On July 27, 2003, during his deputation in his home state Karnataka, Raju was suspended after being caught by the state lokayukta while allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs19 lakh from a private college principal for helping students in clearing the industrial training institute entrance test. He was then posted as director, employment and training department in Karnataka. 
 
 Prior to going on deputation, Bihar vigilance department had lodged an FIR against Raju for allegedly committing financial irregularities to the tune of around Rs60 lakh in the construction of   in Gaya in 2002-03. He was then posted as Gaya DM. 
 
 Nineteen years ago, the   had debarred Raju from election duty after he let off an RJD MLA who had created disturbances at a polling booth and the then IPS (Probation) Sushil M Khopde had arrested the lawmaker.
 
