KOLKATA: The third edition of   kicked off on Friday with captains of Indian industry reciprocating chief minister  's call to invest in the state. Proposals worth nearly Rs 30,000 crore poured in on Day 1.

 It was Hero Motor Group chairman & managing director Pankaj Munjal who set the juggernaut rolling. Referring to Banerjee as a role model, he announced: “We plan to set up a modern bicycle manufacturing facility with an annual capacity of 3 million units in the state.“
 
 Hero accounts for 5% of cycles manufactured globally and intends to export cycles from the proposed plant in the state to so utheast Asia as well as Australia.
 
 It was, however, homegrown industrialist Sanjeev Goenka who stole the limelight on Day 1 when he announced an investment Rs 10,000 crore in the FMCG sector in Bengal over the next five years.“The investment will happen in Spencer's in-house brands in food and personal care categories,“ said Goenka.
 
 Two energy giants -Great Eastern Energy Corporation Ltd (GEECL) and state-owned Gas Authority of India Ltd (Gail) -also announced big-ticket investments. While GEECL will invest Rs 6,800 crore in expansion of coal bed methane in the Durgapur-Raniganj belt and shale gas exploration in the same region, Gail will pump Rs 6,000 crore into infrastructure to lay down the Jagdishpur-Haldia pipeline that will usher in muchawaited green fuel CNG to Bengal. GEECL chairman Y K Mo di said, “Given our hap py experience of doing business in Bengal, we have further investments planned.“ According to Gail CMD BC Tripathi, the 600-km pipeline connecting Jagdishpur to Kolkata and Haldia will come up in 30 months.
 
 “We want to do something big on clean energy in this state,“ he added.
 
 Rakesh Bharti Mittal, director of Bharti Enterprises, announced further invest ment of Rs 4,000 crore in the telecom sector over the next three years. “Airtel has already invested over Rs 13,000 crore in the state. I was at the summit last year and am impressed with the state's development,“ he remarked.
 
 Future Group chief   told the CM that he intended to make Bengal his `karmabhoomi'. “Our investment in Bengal will be such that it will create a large number of jobs and benefit farmers and the poor. We will source products for   stores from self help groups in the state,“ he said, adding that an apparel hub was also in the pipeline. The total employment potential of the Future Group projects is expected to be over 1 lakh.
 
 TCG chairman Purnendu Chatterjee also announced an investment of Rs 1,000 crore in Haldia Petrochemicals. “We aim to add to the product line every year,“ he said.
 
 In her inaugural speech, the CM positioned Bengal as the gateway to not just northeast India, but also Bangladesh, Nepal, Bhutan, Myanmar, Thailand and China.“Thailand is barely 2.5 hours away from Kolkata, Singapore 3.5 hours,“ she said, pointing to the huge market that investors in Bengal could potentially tap.
 
