  : Senior BJP spokesperson   has blamed Congress and its blunders in the past for the current crisis gripping Manipur. 

 The state has been reeling from a commodity crisis triggered by the United Naga Council (UNC)-sponsored economic blockade on the national highways of the state for the past 89 days. 
 
 Biren traced back the origins of the crisis to the signing of an agreement in 1992 between the Nagaland-based Naga Students' Federation (NSF) and former Congress chief minister   when the latter was the deputy chief minister of the state. The agreement had spelt out clauses regarding several issues, one of which was regarding the Kukis' demand of a separate   district. 
 
 The clause in the agreement, signed on November 10, 1992, reads, "The NSF reiterates that not an inch of Naga area will be bartered away under any circumstance; and to avoid any controversy in the future, such a demand (for the Sadar Hills district) should be put to rest by the state government."
 
 "A Naga body from Nagaland interfering with Manipur's affairs and the same being endorsed by the state government, with the deputy chief minister and chief secretary appending signatures on the agreement - it was a blunder," Biren told TOI on Saturday. 
 
 The Nagas have been opposing the creation of Kuki-dominated Sadar Hills district by carving it out from Senapati district as they claim the area as their ancestral land. The   government went ahead and created seven new districts on December 8, including Sadar Hills, now renamed Kangpokpi. 
 
 In the face of the decades-old NSCN (I-M)'s struggle and the demand by Naga civil and political groups of integrating Naga areas under a single administrative entity, safeguarding Manipur's territorial integrity has been a priority on every party's poll manifesto.
 
 Once a close aide to chief minister Okram Ibobi Singh, former legislator   quit the party and joined BJP in December last year. Biren, who held ministerial berths in different capacities, won three times in a row from the Heingang seat in Imphal East district and is among the first list of 31 candidates for the upcoming election.
 
 Biren said BJP will not announce the chief ministerial candidate for the state polls.
 
 
