NEW DELHI: Can a student suffering from colour blindness be allowed to pursue medical courses? The   has agreed to consider a plea of two students to open the door of medical colleges for them, saying the present practice of Medical Council of India not permitting colour-blind students to take admission in MBBS courses is regressive and should be done away with. 

 A bench of Justice Dipak Misra and Justice A M Khanwilkar appointed an expert committee of senior doctors to find out streams in which such students could be allowed. It said students with colour blindness were allowed to study medical courses in many other countries and the rules or guidelines followed in the country needed to be revived to allow such students to pursue courses where colour blindness might not be a handicap. 
 
 “Total exclusion for admission to medical courses without any stipulation in which they really can practise and render assistance would tantamount to regressive thinking. When we conceive of global phenomenon and universal brotherhood, efforts are to be made to be within the said parameters. The march of science, apart from our constitutional warrant and values, commands inclusion and not exclusion,” the bench said. 
 
 The court directed Medical Council of India, the apex regulating body in the field of medical studies and profession, to constitute a committee of experts from genetics, ophthalmology, psychiatry and medical education from AIIMS and PGIMER, Chandigarh, to examine the issue. The court directed that the committee submit its report in three months. 
 
 The court passed the order on a plea of two medical students who were denied admission in college after clearing the entrance examination in 2015 as they were suffering from partial colour blindness. They had first approached Tripura HC which had turned down their plea, compelling them to approach the apex court. 
 
 Opposing the plea of students, senior advocate Vikas Singh and lawyer Gaurav Sharma, appearing for MCI, contended that the decision to bar colour blind people was taken on the basis of report of an expert committee which held that people with such handicap would not be able to perform their duty as a doctor. They said a doctor would not be able to do fair diagnosis and prognosis of a disease as it depended upon colour detection.
 
 Senior advocate K V Vishwanathan, who was asked to assist the court in deciding the issue, said a colour blind person may face difficulty in the stream of pathology, surgery, skin and general medicine but could efficiently perform in the field of psychiatry, social and preventive medicine. He said a complete ban on the admission to MBBS course would be violative of constitutional principle of equal opportunity and fair treatment.
 
