The brutes of   (near  ) who had severely beaten five monkeys recently, leading to the death of two animals, are finally facing the music, legally, for their inhuman act. Closer home,   activist   and her friends have started a campaign to ensure maximum punishment for the perpetrators. We update you on the latest development…

 
 
 The RFO of Akola, Ashok Wayal, shares, “In our application, we had requested the Judicial Court, Telhara, that bail should not be given to the two accused whom we had arrested for beating and killing the monkeys, since the third accomplice is still absconding. We had also requested the court that if these men get bail, it may lead to villagers’ cumulative anger erupting in unforeseen ways, disturbing the peace of the area. The lawyers of the accused didn’t put up any argument. So, the men didn’t get bail.”
 
 
 
 This case has motivated the forest officials to take some concrete steps, along with the legal recourse. RFO of Akola, Ashok Wayal, reveals, “Telhara is an area which has a huge population of monkeys and many times people of the area have to face a lot of problems because of the animals. So, we are now planning to relocate the monkeys to nearby   forest area. I have already met the CO and the members of the nagar parishad in this regard; we will be leaving groups of 15-20 monkeys every day to the jungle soon and basic training will be given to the municipality employees, so that they don’t have to depend on us to relocate the 
 animals.
 
 
 
 The court has sent both the men to  , Akola, for 10 days’ Magisterial Custody Remand, shares Wayal. He goes on to add, “We are making a watertight case against them so that they pay for their misdeeds.”
 
 
 
 Meanwhile, the young animal rights activist of Nagpur, Smita Mire, who filed the complaint against the Akola men, is taking this fight to another level. “Already, there is a rage against this horrible incident and it is building up. I’m associated with women’s cell of a city college, and soon, we are organising debates in two colleges on the need to strengthen the animal protection laws. Also, more than 400 city youngsters who are promoting the cause of animal rights, are sharing the video of this gory incident on social media to get support for the monkeys. The general reaction is that nobody should be allowed to get away with such heinous crimes,” says Smita.
 
