Ring a ring a rosie, a pocket full of posie…. Wait, before you happily croon on, let us remind you, there are no pockets. And there are no posies. Women all over the world are frustrated, because dressmakers are playing a sexist and political game with female outfits by depriving them of pockets, or worse, actually fooling us with faux-pockets.

 Now, don’t tell us you have never been fooled by a faux-pocket. Like in a jegging, that has the creases demarcating a pocket, but none actually! Where do you keep your keys, and your hanky, and the chhutte paise that you invariably need to travel by public transport in India, and your mobile? So, finally women are putting their foot down when it comes to claiming equal pocket rights in fashion, and our Bolly divas are taking front row stance in this movement.
 
 Why is it important, you ask? Well, because as much as Bollywood is responsible for enforcing all kinds of ridiculous gender stereotypes and bodily expectations, when it comes to fashion, we do look up to them. They define styles and trends, and even when we know that we would probably be chased by dogs if we go out wearing the kind of extravagant gaudy stuff they make Page 3 appearances in, we still take our basic inspiration from them. And that why, it’s a huge win for us women, when these fashion frontliners push for practical and functional wears. But above all, pockets are cool, and they can instantly elevate an ensemble’s level from basic to on fleek.
 
 So let’s check out how pockets are making everything, from average jumpsuits to red-carpet gowns, so much extra.
 
 Queen of all things pretty,   sports a quintissential LBD, but with a detail that’s definitely making us jealous — those side pockets! 
  
  
 
 And then when you look at   and  , you wonder why skirts did not have pockets all these years, because, they definitely blend right in! 
 
  
  
  
  
 Shirtdresses tend to have pockets anyway. But   nails two more trends alongside the pockets — stripes and statement sleeves. 
  
  
 Taapsee Pannu’s wrap-dress, which is a wonder in itself, also manages some extra chic with those asymmetrically placed pockets.
 
  
  
 And then there’s   in a gorgeous front-slit kurti, which is rightly complemented by bottom with pockets. 
 
  
  
 Lastly, Vaani Kapoor’s printed wrap dress with easily accessible pockets are what you need for a lunch date today. 
  
  
 
 
