KOLKATA: From this week, you could be buying the same medicine at two different prices from stores across Kolkata. Even though fresh supplies have started hitting the market with   prices, the old stocks will continue to sell at previous rates. 

 While the difference in price will be marginal, it could still lead to confusion, feared retailers. It could take them another two months to exhaust old stocks, which, in effect, meant that the differential pricing will persist till September.
 
 Under the GST, five broad tax slabs have been fixed — 0%, 5%, 12%, 18% and 28%. Around 90% of the medicines have been put in the 12% tax slab. So far, the taxes included a 4.7% VAT plus local taxes, which made the total tax component slightly higher than 12%. So, prices of most drugs could climb down as fresh medicines reach the market, but a large section of consumers will be denied the advantage. 
 
 “Retailers won’t be charging more than   for old stocks. But they must sell the new supplies at GST rates, which will lead to two prices for the same drug. We can’t help it for this is a transition period and we must keep supplies and sales going,” said  , general secretary of the Bengal Chemists’ and Druggists’ Association.
 
 Drug supply had come down to a trickle about 10 days ago, but has picked up again. Several manufacturers are ready with a new price list and new supplies are expected to start coming in from the middle of this week. This may pose a challenge for big retailers who are already grappling with the transition, felt Ramkrishna Jana, owner of Ramkrishna Medical Stores at Rashbehari Avenue. “We still have a huge stock of drugs, which we must sell at the old price. Once the new stocks come in, there must be two sets of bills. Customers will demand an explanation once they get to buy a particular new stock drug at a cheaper rate somewhere else. It will be a problem for us,” he said.
 
 Others are worried about changing their billing system. “Maintaining two billing systems will be a worry. Keeping track of old rugs and new ones will be an additional load and we are also unsure if we have to pay the new tax on old stocks,” said Sanjay Majumdar, owner of The Pharmacy at New Alipore.
 
 But the Bengal Chemists’ and Druggists’ Association maintained that GST will not have to be paid on old stocks. 
 
 Consumers were worried about the depleting stock of essential medicines across stores and retailers echoed their concern. “We have been told that the stocks would reach us by Wednesday. But a delay of even a couple of days would result in a severe crisis,” said Jana.
 
