THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: A high-level meeting chaired by education minister C Raveendranath here on Saturday decided to cancel the SSLC mathematics examination held on March 20 and to conduct a re-examination for the subject on March 30. 

  The decision to cancel the examination was taken after a probe revealed that as many as 13 questions that appeared in the March 20th maths paper were the same as that which appeared in the model question paper prepared by   at   in   district. The institute specialises in the preparation of model question papers in all subjects for SSLC and higher secondary. 
 
  joint commissioner who looked into the allegations has reported to Director of Public Instructions that the mathematics teacher who prepared the question paper for the SSLC examination had links with the private agency. The government has decided to cancel the examination for the better future of the students. The re-examination will be conducted in the afternoon on March 30. Other examinations that were scheduled to be held on March 30 afternoon would be held on March 31 forenoon'', education minister C Raveendranath told reporters after the meeting with officials concerned.
 
  According to sources, the higher secondary teacher who prepared the question paper had sourced the questions from one or more persons engaged in teaching as well as question paper-setting. The teacher who committed this grave mistake will have to pay the price. The minister has asked general education secretary Usha Titus to conduct a detailed inquiry and initiate departmental action against the teacher'', sources said.
 
  There were allegations that many of the questions this year were not included in the syllabus and that the question paper this year was too tough for the students to crack. Since there are allegations that the practice of engaging higher secondary teachers to prepare SSLC question papers is leading to chaos, the government is thinking of entrusting the task to high school teachers themselves from next year.
 
  Meanwhile, opposition leader   said the incident reflected the inefficiency of the state government. "Those who promised to invigorate the general education sector in the state have even failed to conduct SSLC examinations properly. The education minister should take up responsibility and resign'', he said.
 
