BENGALURU: If there is one issue that requires immediate attention from the newly-appointed DG&IG and the home minister, it will be to put in place systems to prevent communal flare-ups in the state — Karnataka witnessed more cases than the other five southern states put together last year.

 According to data accessed from the   (MHA), Karnataka registered 101 cases in 2016, while Maharashtra (68), Kerala (6), Tamil Nadu (8), Andhra Pradesh (1) and Telangana (8) together reported 91 cases. 
 
 There were 703 such cases reported across the country. Accounting for 14% of them, Karnataka was only behind poll-bound Uttar Pradesh (162) which accounts for 23%.
 
 These incidents left 12 people dead and 248 injured in Karnataka, as opposed to six dead and 234 injured in Maharashtra. In Tamil Nadu, one person died and 36 persons were injured, while Andhra Pradesh had no deaths and 15 injured. Kerala too recorded zero deaths, but 10 injured persons, while Telangana reported one death and nine injured.
 
 Overall, 86 people in India lost their lives and 2,321 were injured in the 703 communal incidents reported across the states.
 
 The statistics, though, appear not to perturb the authorities. “There must have been some cases, we are one of the states that’s very transparent in reporting such incidents. But to say we are a communally troubled place would be carrying it too far,” Karnataka DG&IGP RK Dutta said.
 
 While officials say the figures in Karnataka are higher because the state police is proactive in registering such cases, activists say that not everything is as hunky-dory.
 
 “The situation on the ground is different. There are many more cases that have gone unreported as cops just refuse to take the complaints,” said an activist from Mangaluru, part of coastal Karnataka which is the nerve centre for such activity in Karnataka. He did not want to be named.
 
 Another activist,  , who has faced threats in the past, had told TOI earlier that there are at least three cases every day in the coastal region, but not all are reported. He had said the hope that the situation would change after the   came to power in the state has remained just that.
 
 Advocate Clifton Rozario of Manthan Associates and former member of the Alternate Law  , which has taken up several such cases, said: “We must also understand that just registering of cases does not guarantee conviction. What governments need to do is create an environment free of communal sentiments that result in such incidents.” 
 
 Experts also said that while the government’s initiatives to economically uplift certain communities are welcome, there is a need to have a state that is secular. Coastal Karnataka, they said, needs special attention from policy makers and law enforcement agencies.
 
 Dutta, who was recently appointed state police chief, said: “I will study the nature of cases. We know that coastal Karnataka has seen some case but our personnel have been efficient in ensuring that no small incident has flared up. The important thing is that we don’t allow situations to escalate and on that front, the Karnataka police have been working well.”
 
 On complaints not being registered and police needing sensitization courses, Dutta said: “I’ve been holding meetings with various officers at the range level. The SPs (superintendents) have been told that there is no question of not registering a complaint. If such a case comes to my notice, action will be initiated immediately.”
 
 Communal violence in Karnataka has only been growing. In 2014, the state saw 73 cases which took six lives and injured 177 people. The same increased to 105 cases that killed eight people and injured 337 in 2015. With the 2016 figures showing more or less the same trend, the state government needs to work on changing this before it goes to polls in 2018.
 
 The all-India figures for 2014 stand at 644 cases, 95 deaths and 1,921 injuries, while it was 751 cases, 97 deaths and 2,264 injuries in 2015.
 
 
