HUBBALLI: Siya Khode of Dajibaanpeth, Hubballi is all set to be honoured with the National Bravery award by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on January 23 in New Delhi. 

  Siya, 12, is among 25 children across the country chosen for this award instituted by the  , for their bravery in helping save the lives of friends, brothers, sisters and others. 
 
  Siya, a class 7 student of Sri Jagadguru Gangadhar Primary School, will also take part in the Republic Day parade in Delhi on January 26. 
 
 Siya, now in Delhi, told TOI: "My younger brother, Yallappa, two cousins and I were playing on the terrace of my uncle's house in Valvekar Galli on April 14, 2015. When we came down from the first floor, I couldn't find my brother. I went back to the terrace where I found my brother Yallappa standing still, holding an electric wire which passes over our terrace. I didn't realise what had happened and gradually realised he had come in contact with a livewire. When I touched the grill, I felt an electric shock."
 
 She added, "I shouted for help but there was no one to rescue my brother. I mustered enough courage and grabbed my brother by the collar and pulled him, but he did not move. I tried hard again and this time, I was able to free him. He was almost in shock and I brought this to the notice of our parents and neighbours. His hands were burnt, but he was semi-conscious. When we took him to the hospital, doctors praised me for saving his life. This news spread in the city." 
 
 During Children's Day last year, she was honoured with the Keladi Channamma Award by the state government. "I want to serve in the Army," she said.
 
 Her father Vamanasa Khode said, "I'm proud of my daughter for her bravery which saved her brother's life. Had she not done it, my son would have been electrocuted. I appreciate her courage and will continue to support her."
 
 Her teacher Suresh Yettinhalli said Siya is good at studies and extra-curricular activities. "She has set an example for other girls to be brave in facing challenges in life," he added.
 
