AHMEDABAD: The state government has no plans to extend the deadline for project registration under the   (Regulation and Development) Act, 2016 (RERA) beyond July 31. Only 400 real estate projects and 90 real estate agents were reportedly registered by Monday morning with   real estate regulatory authority. 

 According to industry estimates, around 1,500 projects could have been under process for registration across the state as on July 31, but most couldn’t complete their registrations.
 
 With delayed commencement of website for online registrations and heavy rains hampering the progress of their efforts many realtors were unable to complete registrations by Monday leaving them anxious about the fates of their projects.
 
 “According to the central government’s directive, there will be no extension in deadline. However, the state government will try to come up with some practical solution on Tuesday,” said deputy chief minister, Nitin Patel, who also holds the urban development portfolio.
 
 The state government may go easy on penalties in case of failure to register projects within the deadline, government sources said. Meanwhile the state urban development and urban housing department has written to Gujarat real estate regulatory authority to have a sympathetic consideration with regard to punitive actions on ongoing projects to be registered over the next two months. The request has come in the wake of floods in the state and delay in registration process due to administrative reasons.
 
 “The state government is thinking of sympathetically considering representation of the builders. The government is mulling ways to help people (developers) in the wake of heavy rains and other things, which slowed down the registration process,” sources said, adding, “There is no legal provision to extend the deadline unless the central government decides to do so.”
 
 The realtors on the other hand are of the view that the state government should extend the deadline as they had little time to register their projects, and also heavy rains across the states hampered work.
 
 “The deadline should be extended if the real estate industry is to be saved from adverse impact,” said   Patel, president,   (GIHED), the Ahmedabad chapter of Confederation of Real Estate Developers' Associations of India (CREDAI). “Realtors got only 20 days for registration after the website began operating on July 10.”
 
 Pointing out difficulties created by the recent spell of heavy rains, Patel added, “Many realtors could not register owing to heavy rains over the last 10 days or so. We have represented our cause to the state government and requested an extension of the deadline.”
 
