MUMBAI: Even as clouds of uncertainty loom over the Indian team's participation in next month's   Champions Trophy,   CEO,  , speaking to reporters at the unveiling of the new team jersey on Thursday, said that the final decision on the matter will be taken in the Board SGM on May 7.

 "There's an SGM scheduled on May 7. Wait for it. You'll know everything after it," said Johri, even as it emerged that the Supreme Court-appointed Committee of Administrators (COA) issued a warning to BCCI about pulling out of the global event, which begins on June 1. India deliberately missed the April 25 deadline for submission of the squad in the wake of ICC proposing a new financial model which reduces BCCI's revenues from USD 570 million to USD 293 million.
 
 The BCCI and ICC are currently at loggerheads since then. At the ICC meet on April 26, BCCI was cornered on the revenue model and the governance structure issues by other boards.
 
 Meanwhile, Johri launched the new Team India limited overs' blue jersey with official team sponsors Oppo's name on the shirt's front here.
 
 While the Team India members were missing on the occasion as they are currently busy playing the  , apart from some top officials of the Chinese mobile phone firm,  , a member of the CoA, and the Board's General Managers, Prof   and Dr MV Sridhar were present. India begin their CT title defence with a marquee clash against archrivals Pakistan on June 4 in Edgbaston, Birmingham. There is, however, uncertainty around that clash too after the Pakistan army killed two Indian soldiers and mutilated their bodies at the LOC in the last few days. "That's for the government, and not us to decide," said Johri, when asked about whether India were certain about playing that game now.
 
 "India is the world's No 3 ranked team and Oppo's faith in us shows their commitment to cricket as a whole and India, in particular," said Johri. "I'm confident we will work together to help cricket grow. It's a perfect marriage," he added. Oppo and the BCCI had signed a five-year team sponsorship deal worth Rs1,079 crore which was announced by the Board on March 7 with the contract commencing on April 1.
 
