PATNA: Medical fraternity in the state capital is all set to celebrate   on Friday by organizing a number of programmes so that more people are aware of depression, its symptoms and treatment. 

 A video competition for undergraduate and postgraduate students of Patna Medical College and Hospital will be organized by the department of community medicine. Till Wednesday, it has received eight entries. The competition is based on this year’s World Health Day theme — ‘Depression-Let’s Talk’. 
 
 According to Dr Rashmi Singh, HOD of department of community medicine at PMCH, four best entries will be chosen and uploaded to The Indian Association of Preventive and Social Medicine’s YouTube channel. 
 
 The department has also planned quiz competition for the PMCH  . It is based on World Health Day themes of the last five years. 
 
 PMCH’s department of psychiatry has planned a seminar on depression on April 7. 
 
 A mass awareness programme will be organized by Nalanda Medical College and Hospital on April 7 where all the outdoor patients will be made aware about depression, its symptoms, precautions and treatment. The programme would be conducted under the guidance of Dr Kishore Kumar Singh, associate professor of psychiatry at NMCH.
 
 The medical fraternity is also concerned because   are on the rise all over the world, including India. 
 
 As per a 2017 World Health Organisation report, nearly 322 million people suffered from   in 2015. The report also specifies that 4.5% of the Indian population are suffering from depression. Around 3% suffer from anxiety disorder. 
 
 According to the doctors in Bihar, they have been receiving more cases of depression in the past few years. They believe that social media has generated awareness among the masses and, hence, more people are forthcoming to receive treatment.
 
 Dr Amardeep Kumar, assistant professor of psychiatry at PMCH, says nearly 30% of the cases he receives are related to depression. “The cases aren’t age specific. I had a patient as young as eight-year-old, who was suffering from depression. Majority of the patients are in 25 to 30 years age group,” he said. 
 
 The most common cause, according to him, is the loss of a loved one. He said if severe depression goes untreated, it may lead to dementia in older age. 
 
 Women, especially middle-aged, are likely to suffer from depression, feels clinical psychologist   “Four out of six cases coming to me per day are of depression. Most of my patients are adolescents who are stressed out, frustrated and depressed,” she said and blamed the social media which indirectly causes societal pressure on the young minds to be successful. She also says many children who come to her for treatment suffer from separation anxiety and are insecure as their parents do not spend quality time with them.
 
 The OPD in NMCH gets nearly 20 to 25 cases of depression every day. “Depression is also one of the most common causes of suicides in India. It needs to be recognized as a normal illness and the stigmas related to it need to be removed,” said Dr Santosh Kumar, assistant professor of psychiatry at NMCH.
 
 
