MUMBAI:   INS Betwa, which had tipped over at the Mumbai   on December 6, 2016, killing two sailors and injuring 14 others, has been salvaged to its   position. The Navy says the   will be made operational once again by April 2018.

 “The ship has been made upright and placed on even keel on Wednesday by the salvage team and is in a float position,” Navy spokesperson (Delhi) DK Sharma told TOI. “She will be moved to either Duncan Dry Dock or Hughes Dry Dock for further refitting before made completely operational. The refit will be completed by April 16-18, which is before the deadline, and she will be back in the fleet.”
 
 In January, the navy had inked a Rs 20-crore contract with an international salvage firm, Resolve Marine Group, to upright the 3,850-tonne indigenously-built warship by February-end. “The ship sailed out of the dry dock and tests are on,” said a source from the Indian Navy. “Initially, there were plans to salvage the warship, but after accessing her status, the navy has decided to set her upright and float her.” 
 
 The warship was rested on the newly built blocks while she was being set upright and the ingress water pumped out. “About one-fourth of the ship was in water. After placing her on the new blocks, de-flooding of the dock was done and outer damages sealed before setting it upright,” added the source. “In the second phase, we will check the inner machinery damages.”
 
 The navy has completed its board of inquiry, headed by a Rear Admiral into the unprecedented mishap, during which the Brahmaputra-class frigate “slipped from her dock blocks”, tilted and then crashed flat on her left (port) side while being undocked during a maintenance refit. The mishap apparently occurred due to miscalculation of the “load distribution equilibrium” required in the complex and delicate undocking procedure, leaving the frigate heavily damaged with at least 25% flooding in its compartments. The role of the dock-master and other officers from the ‘naval constructors’ wing as well as the frigate’s captain and crew will be examined by the board.
 
  Meanwhile, the missile guided boat, INS Pralaya, which had been stuck in the Naval Dock since INS Betwa tipped over, finally sailed out on Wednesday after the warship was set upright. 
 
 
