LUCKNOW: The   set by chief minister Aditya Nath Yogi for ministers and officers would not only be an   but also decide on their future, said BJP  , organization,  .

 Speaking to TOI in an exclusive interview, Bansal said that in the first 50 days, it had been established that the ruling   was not working with vendetta against anyone. Officers would be judged on their performance and not their past loyalty, he said. 
 
 While the first 50 days saw a drastic change in the functioning of the government, the next 50 would show translation of the government’s words and promises into action, said the leader considered to have a major role in BJP’s stellar performance in the assembly elections.
 
 However, on the deteriorating law and order situation in some districts and and the eruption of caste clashes in some, Bansal said these were minor incidents in a vast state like Uttar Pradesh, the majority of which has been peaceful. “We know well that the people have voted for us mainly on two counts. One is to restore law and order and the other to end corruption. The BJP assures the state that it will not disappoint anyone. In the next 50 days, people will see a drastic change,” said Bansal. 
 
 The days were over when ministers could threaten officers to start projects without a report or economic viability and call up engineers to hand over contracts to their hitmen, he said. 
 
 “Have you ever seen a UP CM up till past midnight meeting with officers to draw up plans and programmes for the welfare of the state. What happened in the past? The chief minister would spend summer in cooler climes in a foreign country while the state suffered.” Voted to power in the state after 15 years, responsibility on the party was huge, the senior BJP leader said. It could not afford to get complacent and has to act as a bridge between the government and the people.
 
 “The first major challenge before the party is the forthcoming urban civic polls. Workers are selecting candidates,” he said, adding that he was confident of a repeat of the assembly election results.
 
 “The discredited and discarded opposition will find no place here too.” The organisation secretary is involved in ideation on expanding the party in areas where it has not made inroads.
 
 Bansal also shared plans for a multi-phased programme on the the birth anniversary celebrations of party idealogue Deen Dayal Upadhyaya on September 26. The party aims to bring to its fold apolitical people involved in social work on the occasion apart from welfare conventions for beneficiaries of the NDA government’s schemes, blood donation camps and conferences on Upadhyaya’s philosophy.
 
 
