BHOPAL: Battling all odds and training to win seem to come naturally to Kiran (19) and Vidushi (17) from   for children with disability, who are all set for their final rounds at   international, scheduled to be held at Austria.

 Abandoned by their respective families right after birth, both of them were born with hearing and  . Both were less than a week old when SOS Children’s Village Varanasi opened their doors to them. They were soon transferred to SOS Bhopal centre in Khajuri Kalan for special care. They have been brought up there with love and care with the village home being their world and the 6 inmates and mother at the village home being the only family they have ever known.
 
 Along with regular academics, both of them have had a passion of sports. Kiran will be participating in floor hockey while Vidushi is a finalist for a special genre of floor hockey known as floorball in the final rounds at Special Olympics.
 
 Earlier, Dolly from SOS village had won bronze and silver medals in cycling at Special Olympics held in Los Angeles. Both the children named her as their source of inspiration. Dolly’s medals, which hang on a wall at the home have also motivated other girls in SOS village to take up sports and participate at international games.
 
 “Vidushi is very particular about her practise session and wakes up at 5 am. Once she starts practising, she doesn’t stop until she is satisfied ,” said Reena Helen, Vidushi’s house mother.
 
 Deepak Saxena, SOS village Khajuri Kalan in-charge said, “Students like these need special care and if they get so they can do miracles.   have also shown interest in other sports like swimming, badminton, cycling, volleyball and football. They are trained by special teachers and follow a specific diet”.
 
 Kiran had got a chance to participate in Floor hockey national championship organized at Solan, Himachal Pradesh in December, 2015, and after that there was no looking back for her. She soon took part in several championships, including Special Olympics Bharat and soon secured her position in the finals.
 
 Vidushi stepped into Special Olympics 5 years back. She is preparing for participation in Floorball at the World Winter Games 2017, Austria. Her other interests include drawing, cycling and Badminton.
 
 Special Olympics winter game will be held in Austria this year from March 17 to March 25. 
 
 
