GURUGRAM: An underground tank with a capacity of 9 lakh litres is coming up in DLF-1 that is expected to address the problem of water shortage, especially in D and E Blocks which have been worst hit by the recurring crisis. The construction for the same kicked off in D Block on Friday with a four-month deadline for completion.

 Sources said the developer took up the project — construction of an underground tank and installation of a booster pump — to augment   in the area following repeated complaints from the residents’ welfare association.
 
 While the residents of D and E blocks would benefit the most from the upcoming tank, it would also help ease the pressure in other parts of DLF-1 and thus improve the supply situation.
 
 “The   management is finally building a separate underground water tank with a capacity of 900KL, along with boosting facility, exclusively for the residents of D and E Blocks,” said  , municipal counsellor, ward no 34.
 
 Officials of Huda, which supplies water to the area, said the situation has been particularly bad in D and E blocks as they are situated at a higher altitude and at the end of the supply network. As a result, often water from the main overhead tank in B Block does not reach D and E Blocks.
 
 “We have been living with inadequate water for the past so many years. The developer had agreed to construct a separate reservoir for the two blocks during a meeting on June 4, 2016. Despite all the delays, we are happy that DLF is finally building the tank,” Savita Choudhary, president, E Block Residents’ Welfare Association. 
 
 Sandeep Kapoor, a resident of D block, said that they had been for long demanding upgrade of the infrastructure, which was the only way to improve supply. “We have been struggling with water shortage for years now mainly due to loopholes in the distribution infrastructure. We are hoping that this tank will solve our problem,” he added.
 
 Interestingly, the development has come at a time when MCG is preparing to take over DLF-1 upkeep, after which the civic body will be responsible for water supply. 
 
