GURUGRAM: It has been more than a week since a seven-year-old boy drowned in a   close to the  , but   have not taken any corrective measures yet, or cordoned off the huge puddle, which poses a threat to residents, especially children, living in the slum located in Teekri village off Sohna road. 

 The civic agencies — both   and   — have both tried to shrug off responsibility by passing the buck to each other. Residents of   society said the civic authorities have not acted yet despite their repeated complaints to Huda and the MCG.
 
 “We have been requesting the authorities to act swiftly to cordon off the swamp. We were expecting a prompt action taking into account gravity of the situation. A child lost his life by falling into it,” Paankaj Sethi, one of the residents of Central Park Resorts.
 
 MCG, when contacted by TOI, said the agency didn’t have any role to play in the matter because the area belonged to a private party and came under the jurisdiction of Huda in Sector 48.
 
 “The very next day we sent a team to inspect the site and found out that it could not be linked with Sohna road sewer line owing to the gradient of the land. Hence, a pit was dug by the residents of the slum to fill sewage flowing out from shanties,” Rohit Yadav, assistant commissioner, MCG said.
 
 He also said Huda was apprised of the problem, but alternatively the corporation would issue a notice to the owner of the land, asking him to clear the area because “shanties were erected illegally there”. “We will issue a notice to the land owner citing public nuisance under Section 309 and 310 of the Haryana Municipal Corporation Act 1994,” said Yadav.
 
 The urban development body however, has claimed that the land doesn’t come under its jurisdiction.
 
 “There is no Huda land in sectors 48 and 49,” Yashpal Yadav, administrator, Gurgaon, said.
 
 Residents of Central Park condominium alleged that their complaints on the swamp, a breeding ground for mosquitoes, fell on the deaf ears of the civic authorities though they raised the issue many a time with them. Rani, at whose house Parvesh’s mother Mastrina works as a domestic maid, had told TOI that “the swamp was very small when we moved in two years ago to Central Park Resorts, but has grown to look like a big pond now”.
 
 
