 and   — the first, a fundamental right of every Indian child and the second, a tool for governance to ensure that right. They can only be combined so far as they occupy their respective places and politics fulfils its duties in ensuring the rights of our citizens. A nation’s system of education can be deemed to be successful when every child has fair access to an equal opportunity education. It is indeed, the duty of that nation’s government to enable an effective infrastructure to ensure no child is left out — or left behind.

 Our state of   is being torn apart with the issue of our children’s ability to face the   exam. There is much rhetoric and impassioned speech flying around both denouncing and defending the entire exercise. I’m sure in the larger scheme of things and in the perspective of debating an appropriate response, read as politically advantageous positioning, we could eventually find some validity in either 
 argument, but the fact is that there is great injustice perpetrated when equal opportunity to education is subverted. 
 
 Is the NEET exam a fair evaluation of every child’s ability? Is it a fair judgment of their aspiration to higher study? Keeping in mind the vast socio-economic diversity of our nation and the fact that our various educational systems are equally diverse, the effectiveness of a common entrance test would be possible if that exam were set to a common curriculum and common language parameters. We know that this is not the case with the NEET exam and therefore is an unfair and loaded challenge to our children. 
 
 I believe in our children. In their diligence, determination and capability. Our children are second to none in sincerity and hard work. They are being brought up to revere education as the only way forward and towards achieving their dreams of an empowered life. Our children understand the value of education in building a better life and they work towards this with their heart and soul. But as a mother, I have heard the cry for help from children and their parents when they have been left facing the bewildering assault of an entrance exam that is simply incomprehensible. As a student who has faced such an entrance exam myself, I understand the angst and agony of the challenges in facing such an exam even when one is prepared in curriculum and skills. But what of our children — who have neither of these?
 
 An entrance exam that will decide a child’s future and their life, must be one that gives that child every fighting chance to win. It must be an exam that empowers rather than disables and an exam that validates rather than denies their innate talent, courage and ability. But whatever one’s opinion of such exams might be, it is a fact that they are an immutable part of our educational systems and, if one is to aspire for that higher education they must pass through this gamut of evaluation. So, while the powers that aspire to be, debate the very existence of this exam, it is a fact that our children must face it so long as it is administered. 
 
 Hypothetical discussion of merits and demerits do not help the children who are facing this exam now. Till such time as there is a resolution, the imbroglio continues and our children are paying the price. I can see no justice in this and my fight is to bring about a breathing space within which the children are better prepared and the exam structure is inherently stabilised. My overwhelming concern are those children and their parents who have pinned their hopes for a bright future on an empowering education – as is their right. 
 
 It is not only the NEET exam structure itself that needs restructuring but also our educational systems that need an overhaul. Right from reevaluation of curriculum to teacher training and technology-enabled education; we need all this and more in order to give our children a fighting chance at building their lives in a strong and independent way. Not only in-class education, but emotional support with strong exam-taking skills must be imparted to children from at least the eight standard. These kinds of skills counselling are standard components of a high school education that are not the exclusive prerogative of the “privileged” classrooms. 
 
 It’s very simple. An effective and just education must be of a certain kind and quality and till such time as our educational infrastructure is not developed and enhanced to that ensure that level, our children will bear the brunt of that inadequacy and pay the price — with their futures and their lives. We cannot let this happen. While the politics plays itself out, let us raise our voices for justice – for our children. For any society that does not take its littlest ones along is a failed society — and we, as a Nation, are far too aware, responsible and compassionate to allow that to happen. I believe in this, as do enough and more of us Indians, so let us raise our voices to support our children — first and foremost. The politics comes a distant….Jai Hind!
 
 (Views expressed are the author's own) 
 
