NEW DELHI: Several media organisations and others condemned the violence that broke out in North Campus on Wednesday, particularly the assault by police on journalists. 

  of India, Indian Women’s Press Corps (IWPC), Editor’s Guild and Amnesty International India expressed serious concern over the systemic attack on “freedom of expression on Indian university campuses”. 
 
 In a statement, IWPC expressed concern over the fact that mediapersons were singled out for attack by the police. It demanded a probe and punishment of the guilty. “It has been just a year since journalists were assaulted by lawyers at   courts. We are pained that a similar incident has taken place in  . We urge the authorities to ensure that such incidents do not recur in future,” the IWPC statement added. 
 
 Delhi Union of Journalists (DUJ) also expressed anger and anguish. “There were several assaults (on Wednesday) on journalists covering the disturbances, by protesters as well as police who did not wear name tags,” a DUJ statement said, adding, “Phones were snatched, cameras grabbed and photographic evidence of the violence was destroyed.” 
 
 DUJ said The Times of India correspondent   and photographer Anindya Chattopadhyay were beaten up during the clashes. “Quint reporter Taruni Kumar has given a video statement of how   women hit her, grabbed her phone, pulled her hair and broke her phone and mike,” it said.
 
 “These attacks indicate a deliberate attempt to browbeat and muzzle the press whenever it tries to report violence by supporters and vigilante groups of the ruling party,” DUJ said, adding, “An attack on the media is an assault on democracy. We demand an inquiry and punishment for the guilty. There is ample videographic evidence on social media of the violence.   is usually only too ready to lathi-charge, tear-gas, detain or arrest those organising any form of protest in the city. In this case it did not use any such tactics to restrain the ABVP students who attacked those holding a peaceful seminar at Ramjas College.” Also condemning the incident was the Press Club of India which in a statement said that they were “surprised and anguished at the police inaction”. 
 
 Calling it an attempt by the police to “silence the press and muzzle it to instil a sense of fear,” PCI demanded a thorough inquiry to bring the guilty to the book. 
 
 “Using lathis and punches to browbeat the press and prevent fair, objective reporting is a brutal assault on the freedom of expression which is guaranteed under our Constitution,” the statement said. 
 
 
