AHMEDABAD: In a setback for the   (ED), Gujarat high court has exonerated five family members of   kingpin   in connection with Rs 5,395-crore hawala scam unearthed in 2014.

 A special Prevention of   Act (PMLA) court had issued summons after ED filed a complaint against Jafar Hasanfatta, Ahmed Hasanfatta, Fazal Umer Pothiawala, Foziya and Samir Godil, all close relatives of Afroz from Surat. ED had accused them of money laundering along with Afroz and his associate Madanlal Jain. ED had also attached various properties worth crores of rupees purchased by them allegedly by money withdrawn from bank accounts, in which the hawala money was deposited by the main accused persons.
 
 These five accused approached the high court claiming that they were not implicated in the criminal case that was filed by Surat police under various sections of the IPC. They also questioned the accusation of their involvement in the hawala scam.
 
 After a prolonged hearing,   quashed the summons and the criminal process initiated by the special PMLA court on the ground that generating or deriving tainted money from the Scheduled offence is not offence punishable under PMLA, but knowingly projecting such money as untainted would amount to an offence of money laundering.
 
 The HC said that the special PMLA court mechanically took cognizance of offence against these accused without even prima facie material to establish their ill-intention or knowledge about the crime allegedly committed by others. 
 
 The documents placed by ED revealed that they did not even have any doubt about hawala transactions. “This is also fortified by the fact that none of the petitioners were made accused in the scheduled offence. Even though the accused petitioners received in their bank accounts certain amounts at the instance of or from their close relative Afroz Hasanfatta, the statements if taken on their face value, do not satisfy even on prima facie basis the prerequisite for trying any person on allegation of money laundering i.e. ‘mens rea’ or culpable ‘knowledge’ of the ‘Scheduled Offence’ and ‘Proceeds of Crime’ derived therefrom, and projection of such proceeds of crime as untainted,” the HC observed.
 
