Nagpur: The spate of construction activities in the city, be it cement road works, metro or building construction, is proving detrimental to asthma patients. Their disease aggravates due to increased dust particles in the air. Pulmonologists are demanding the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) should enforce construction norms effectively to minimize the effect of pollution and lessen the woes of asthmatic patients already struggling with vehicular and other forms of pollution. Dr Rajesh Swarnakar, senior pulmonologist, told TOI he had seen a patient shift to a village for three months when the construction near his house was at the peak. “Though this is a transient phase, it is proving harmful for asthmatic patients. Different patients have different triggering agents or allergens but dust aggravates the asthma of all. Hence contractors should follow the norms and try to isolate the place as much as possible,” he said. Patients too should take precautions like covering their nose and mouth with wet cloth and staying indoors during the day when work is on. “In cities like Delhi, corporate houses have installed air purifiers in the offices. Works like concretizing the roads should not be undertaken simultaneously in the entire city. It should be done in a phased manner,” said Dr Swarnakar. Dr Ravindra Sarnaik, also a senior pulmonologist, stated there had been a rise in patients of asthma in the last few years due to increased construction activities. “There is big rise in particulate matter. It triggers asthma attacks in known patients. WHO calls this as Reactive Airway Disease (RAD) that results in cold and cough along with throat irritation. NMC and other regulatory authorities should implement the construction norms and enforce rules like covering the construction area,” he said. Dr Ashok Arbat, director KRIMS hospital, wanted the government should appoint agencies to monitor the level of pollutions including the particulate matter that should be reported like temperature in the newspapers. This, he felt, would help people know the level of pollution and take necessary precautions as well as force the pollution creating agencies to minimize it. Chest physician Dr Vinit Niranjane said the cumulative lung function of any person was generally affected by pollution. For asthmatics the effect would be worse due to exposure to continuous dust and particulate matter in the air. He suggest that not just asthmatics but even general population should wear respirator masks. “The asthma patients should carry emergency inhalers with them everywhere so their medical condition does not aggravate during such exposures,” he said.