BENGALURU: On Thursday, the narcotics squad of Bengaluru’s central crime branch arrested two men from Bangladesh who had been peddling drugs among students. Earlier in the week, they arrested a catering college student and an Austrian woman who were in the city to sell banned substances.

 The city police have upped their game against drug peddlers this year, and have booked 12 cases and arrested 24 people, including 14  , since the beginning of January. This month, so far, police have seized cocaine, LSD and methamphetamine in nine drug busts.
 
 Considered the biggest crackdown by Bengaluru city police so far, the raids have yielded large quantities of cocaine, amphetamine and LSD. “We have been examining the drug trade with inputs from the gang members and informers and have ascertained a few key locations in the city. MG Road, CMH Road and Old Madras Road are key spots where people buy drugs. African nationals are the main dealers and operate from Hennur, Banaswadi, Ramamurthy Nagar and Hennur,” said another officer.
 
 In Thursday’s raid, the narcotics squad searched a house on Hosur Road in Bommanahalli following a tip-off and arrested two Bangladesh nationals. “They were in possession of 40 yaba tablets (a mixture of methamphetamine and caffeine). The two young men had Bengaluru-based Aadhaar cards, voter IDs and driving licences. They sold drugs to students and young professionals and would deliver the drugs to specific locations,” said an investigating officer. The men, Johny Khan alias Sujan, 26, and Raja Khan alias Rajob, 23, were dealing drugs for a couple of years, he said.
 
 On Monday, TC Palya resident  , 22, who was studying catering in Goa, was arrested at a hotel in HSR Layout along with his accomplice Manuela Riedl, 24, an Austrian national. The two had camped in city and were trying to sell morning glory seeds (a hallucinogenic substance similar to LSD) apart from LSD blots, MDMA (commonly known as ecstacy) and ganja, police said.
 
 With the drug trade rampant in Bengaluru and usage escalating among youth and school children, city police have started identifying vulnerable areas. MG Road, Church Street, CMH Road, TC Palya Main Road, Wheeler Road and Horamavu junction are some of the pickup points for psychedelic substances, police said.
 
 Peddlers check client credentials and then use two-wheelers to get to drop points, hand over the drugs and collect their payment. “The exchange doesn’t last more than 30 seconds as both buyer and seller are wary of cops,” said Sumesh (name changed), a drug user whose rendezvous point is Pai Layout, Mahadevapura.
 
 As the drug dealers arrested in January and February include 12 Nigerians and one Ugandan, anti-narcotics sleuths have increased surveillance in localities where African nationals are suspected to be dealing drugs. They purchase contraband via the dark web, have it smuggled in by agents directly from South American countries and received through couriers from their gang members in Goa, Mumbai and Delhi. “We are closely monitoring some hangouts and pubs in KR Puram, Kammanahalli and Marathahalli were we suspect  ,” the officer added.
 
