NEW DELHI: The   has convened an emergent meeting of its executive council on Friday. While the members are yet to know the agenda of the meeting, highly placed sources said that the finance committee will present the proposal for the purchase of   apartments at a cost of Rs 150 crore for approval. 

 Later, the university will convert the apartments into   for students and residential quarters for staff members. The move, however, has been opposed by resident welfare association of the Signature View Apartments, DDA, Mukherjee Nagar, stating that the specific residential character will be affected if it’s turned into hostel or staff quarter.
 
 The highest decision making body of the university, in its earlier meeting this month, had in principal approved the plan for the purchase, which will come up along with the third law centre in Dwarka.
 
 The RWA in a representation to the university authorities and EC members stated that “These housing societies are supposed to be non-commercial entities providing housing facilities to selected few among many applicants through a public draw of lots. These   should not be auctioned or allotted unilaterally without informing public at large.”
 
 It also added that “While we regard   as our valued neighbour but need to point out that community-university relation is a very delicate one and trying to convert part of a privately owned residential body to a university-owned bureaucratic one will shake this equilibrium for worse.”
 
 However, university officials said that the bulk purchase of DDA properties will be done at Dwarka to convert them into hostels and the flats in Mukherjee Nagar areas will not be used to house students. “If approved, the university will use these (Mukherjee Nagar) flats for teaching and non-teaching staff. Not students,” an official said.
 
 “In Dwarka, the proposal is to buy the complete block of DDA colony, which will not affect the neighbourhood and it will be a closed campus to be used for the purpose of hostels. This will allow DU to build academic block on the land with the university, on which the law centre will come up. As per Bar Council of India’s norms, each law centre should have its own building,” said the official.
 
 
