PUNE: A lot was written on the 'supposed' rift between former India captain   and offie   last year.

 While the captain cool was blamed for underutilizing his once go-to man during the Indian Premier League matches for the Rising Pune Supergiants and dropping the spinner during the   in Australia and for the New Zealand ODIs at home, Ashwin reportedly didn't mention Dhoni in his 'thank you' speech after receiving the ICC Test Cricketer of the Year award.
 
 The new year seems to have started on a sweeter note though. Ashwin, who will be playing his first ODI exactly after one year on Sunday, was all praise of his former captain's leadership and communications skills. It will also be the first match India will play since Dhoni stepped down as captain from the shorter formats.
 
 Ahead of their first practice session before the England ODI at the MCA stadium in Gahunje on Wednesday, Ashwin said he will have to adjust to Virat's communication style as he is used to MSD's style.
 
 "It (communication) will be different because of the kind of interactions we will have before and after (of the over). While playing alongside Mahi, which will not happen from this game onwards, it was almost like communicating through top of the mark to the 'keeper. It will be very different. Obviously, Virat will be around at the short mid-wicket and short cover, but it will be different and will just try and get used to that sort of communication. Virat on occasions can be a little aggressive and that is the one thing that I need to adjust to," Ashwin said when asked about the change he would be facing when Virat takes on the command on Sunday. 
 
 "I have played just one whole ODI series with Virat against Sri Lanka. He likes attacking and taking wickets through the middle overs even at the costs of some runs. I don't mind that, but will have to get used to it. In terms of leadership and communication, I still think Mahi is going to hold the key, because he is a 'keeper and he is going to bring that invaluable experience with him. So it is going to be very important that we try and take as much as valuable inputs and take the team forward."
 
 The bowling all-rounder, who had a great Test series against England late last year, feels he has been preparing well for his ODI comeback. "It's more of a mental switch (than the format). We played a few T20s in the US and that was a good switch for me. I am sure it is going to be a big challenge and the next few days of the practice are going to be important. I tried to tick as many boxes and practiced in Chennai, but nothing like game time," he said.
 
