Nagpur: Adhering to the guidelines of the   (ahead of civic elections), the Gandhibagh zone took ‘stern’ action and removed over hundreds of illegal   and banners from various areas in its jurisdiction by registering offence against 66 persons.

 Ironically, adopting a ‘pick and choose’ policy once again, the illegal posters and banners in other zones, failed to catch the attention of the other zones of the NMC, who did not even bother to remove these.
 
 It can be gauged with the fact that the NMC till date registered 53 cases of model code of conduct violations of which 26 were registered with Gandhibagh zone.
 
 Team TOI on Monday toured many localities and found huge hoardings and banners put up at many busy squares on inner ring road in South and East Nagpur. Many aspiring candidates for the Municipal Corporation elections have installed banners to woo voters. Leaders of all major parties are at the front in violating the orders.
 
 Putting up political banners is prohibited when the election code of conduct for the   is in force, but it seems political parties are least concerned about the restriction. Illegal hoardings of candidates contesting civic elections have come up along the lanes and bylanes of the city in violation of the   and the   rulings, banning hoardings and posters along the roads.
 
 “Though this is not a new trend, defacement of public and private property across the city seems to have become a regular practice with political leaders. The NMC and the city police have turned a blind eye towards the menace,” pointed out social activist Dinesh Naidu, who through his NGO Parivartan — The Citizens Forum had also approached the High Court over defacement of public properties.
 
 On several occasions, High Court had passed orders to remove illegal hoardings and advertisements across the city. However, in spite of the court orders, the situation remains the same. NMC official said they would curb the menace and if any hoarding or poster found illegal, strict action would be taken against the violator.
 
