Bhopal: Putting all speculations to rest, finance minister Jayant Malaiya ruled out imposition of prohibition in the state from October 2, Gandhi Jayanti.

 He said there is no proposal with the government presently nor the state is ready for such a move this financial year, told reporters on his return to the state capital after the BJP executive meet in Delhi.
 
 He said as a part of social awareness campaign the government is running a state-wide drive to make young population aware of the consequences of addiction and alcohol abuse. A sudden ban on alcohol could create more problems and supply of hooch or spurious liquor will thrive, he said.
 
 The finance minister said he was not aware where from the rumour of total prohibition in state began.
 
 "Total prohibition with immediate effect is a rumour. Government will have to work out an alternate plan taking all pros and cons. Any decision would be taken after complete preparation by the state government", Malaiya told TOI.
 
 It was in April, when chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan during his Narmada Yatra announced that all liquor shops would be closed across the state in a phased manner and the state was heading towards a total prohibition. Chouhan, however, stressed that government would run awareness campaign to wean away youth from alcohol abuse. 
 
 “Prohibition will be implemented in the entire state by closing all liquor shops in a phased manner. But, presently, we want to make the youth aware of it,” Chouhan had said while addressing public in village Neemkhera (Heerapur) of Narsinghpur district.
 
 The government later, announced to close all liquor shops situated near the bank of river Narmada and discouraged traders to run liquor shops near residential localities, educational institutions and religious places.
 
 Recently, the state government announced a projected income of Rs 10,000 crore from the sale of liquor in the entire state, a whopping 25% higher from the previous revenue collection of Rs 7,500 crore during Narmada Yatra. 
 
 Sources in the finance department said the government had compensated revenue loss on liquor sale by increasing the price of the liquor. 
 
 "In such case, when the department is earning profit from the sale contributing to the state's coffer, it is difficult to scrap down the revenue sources without an alternative arrangement", said officials in the secretariat.
 
 
