PUNE: A sizeable number of   in the city do not conform to food safety  , reveals the Food and Drug Administration’s (FDA) latest report.

 Of 126 bakeries inspected by FDA officials between January 3 and 9, a whopping 120 bakeries were found to be flouting operational as well as sanitation rules laid down by the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI). The inspected bakeries are from Pune, Satata, Sangli, Kolhapur and Solapur districts.
 
 FDA officials conducted the drive in the wake of the massive fire that led to the death of six employees, who were sleeping inside   bakery in Kondhwa. The issue of bakeries running without the mandatory licence came to the fore as the owner of Bakes N Cakes had been found to be running the business without the licence. As per FDA records, there are total 689 bakeries in Pune.
 
 “We inspected 126 bakeries in Pune division. Among them, we found that 30 were running the bakery without the mandatory licence or registration. Besides, bakery workers were living inside the production area of 18 bakeries, which is prohibited. Moreover, the remaining 72 bakeries were found faltering on hygiene and sanitation norms. We have issued them improvement notices and asked them to correct the lacunae. We will initiate action against them if they fail to comply,” said SS Desai, joint commissioner (food), FDA, Pune division.
 
 The officials inspected the highest number of bakeries, 75, in Pune district. Among them, 24 bakeries were operating without licence while, at 16 bakeries, workers were sleeping in the production area at night. A sizeable number of bakeries were also running the business in filthy conditions. “We have issued improvement notices to 65 bakeries in Pune district. They have been told to initiate measures to comply with norms or face action,” Desai said.
 
 The Food Safety and Standards Act 2006 states that living inside the production section of a bakery is not allowed. The law only permits a changing room for workers.
 
 Health activists pointed out that FDA officials wake up only when there is a tragedy. “The FDA’s report shows the pathetic conditions of bakeries in Pune and how they function. FDA officials must find ways to use technology for surveillance work. The bakeries need to be periodically monitored so that they have a sense of accountability, which is currently missing in most cases,” activist Sanjay Dabhade said.
 
 
