NEW DELHI: A 14-year-old boy was   to death in south-west Delhi’s Chhawla on Monday afternoon. The murder weapon was a   used by students in geometry. Based on eyewitness accounts, police are sure of the involvement of two of the boy’s friends in the murderous attack.

 Around 4pm on Monday, people heard shouts coming from the embankment of a drain. They discovered two youngsters in school uniform pinning another to the ground and stabbing him. Realising they had been seen, the two assailants crossed the drain and fled from the spot. Manjeet, the teenager who was attacked, crawled up the embankment before collapsing.
 
 A police van took the boy to a hospital, but he died on the way. Police said that Manjeet, who studied in Class XI in the government school in Vikaspuri, had probably accompanied his two friends to Chhawla to settle some disagreement. There they apparently got into a heated argument, during which the duo started fighting with Manjeet and dragged him down the embankment. One of them stabbed him with a compass. All three of them were wearing their school uniforms at the time of the incident.
 
 Doctors told the cops that the probable cause of Manjeet’s death was the two puncture wounds on his vital organs. “We have registered a case of murder and are looking for the friends who had accompanied the boy to the spot,” said Surender Kumar, DCP (Southwest).
 
 Family members told the cops that Manjeet usually did not usually hang out with the suspect duo after an earlier tiff with them. Cops surmise that an argument over friendship with a girl known to his two friends had led to Manjeet into a fight with them, though the boy must not have realised how serious his fellow students were about the matter. Some of Manjeet’s classmates are being questioned about the incident.
 
 Manjeet’s body was sent for an autopsy and would be handed over to the family members on Tuesday. According to police, Manjeet lived with his parents in Vikaspuri. The deceased student’s father works as a driver in west Delhi. The suspect youngsters also live in the same locality. 
 
 
 
 
