NEW DELHI: Private schools in Delhi are planning to move the high court seeking a stay on the notification issued by the Directorate of Education (DoE) directing private schools on public land to admit students from their immediate neighbourhood.

 Meanwhile, the litigations from schools might   the admission process in these schools, which are already behind schedule.
 
 The   is planning to file a petition on the argument that the allotment letter, which stipulates that the schools grant admission to applicants in its vicinity, is a contract, while the Delhi School and Education Act and Rules is a central law that gives principals of private schools the right to choose its students. 
 
 “A contract between a school and a government cannot be in violation of a central law. It cannot be upheld over a statute,” said Kamal Gupta, petitioner for the action committee.
 
 He added that the notification also violates a child’s right to choose a school, just because it doesn’t fall in his neighbourhood. “The authorities want to change private schools into mohalla schools,” he said. 
 
 The National Progressive Schools Conference (NPSC) has also approached the high court through the action committee. “We held a meeting with the members some time ago, and discussed various issues,” said  , one of the members of the committee and principal of Birla Vidya Niketan, a private school on public land.
 
 “Members said that the court has given the schools the right to management quota last year and it cannot be done away with now. Besides, wards of the staff should be give a seat in the school,” she added.
 
 Kushwaha further said that “The allotment letter says the school must give admission to a student in its neighbourhood, while the lease document says students from neighbourhood must be given preference. The documents are confusing.”
 
 The litigations, if accepted by the HC, will further delay the admission process. Usually admissions start in December, but the wait for various guidelines have pushed the schedule this year.
 
 Ashok Pandey, NPSC chairman and principal of  , said the schools are anyway going to take some time to recalibrate their systems as per the new distance criteria guidelines. 
 
 “If the court comes out with a decision in the meantime, it won’t be much of a problem. But if not, then the admissions may be withheld,” he said.
 
 
