GURUGRAM: The city will soon get two more ambient   quality monitoring   as part of Haryana   Pollution Control Board’s (HSPCB) plan to set up 19 such stations across the state for real-time monitoring of pollution.

 Currently, there is only one pollution measuring station in Gurugram, which is why HSPCB is unable to monitor PM 2.5 and PM 10 levels — both markers of ambient air quality — in the city in real time. The second air quality monitoring station will be set up near Manesar, while the third one is likely to be near Cyber City, the city’s commercial hub.
 
 “As there has been a concern over real-time evaluation of air quality in Gurugram, due to its proximity to the national capital, the board has decided to have at least two more air quality monitoring stations in Gurugram. One of them is most likely to be near Manesar as it is a base for a number of industries. This way, every zone will have stations to monitor ambient air quality,” said Jai Bhagwan, regional officer, HSPCB.
 
 Apart from Gurgaon, pollution measuring stations will be set up in Mewat, Sonipat, Rewari, Jhajjhar, Panipat, Palwal, Bhiwani, Mahendragarh, Jind, Karnal, Hisar, Bahadurgarh and Yamuna Nagar. These stations will also help the HSPCB monitor air quality during stubble burning — a practice that is banned as per law — in the districts far away from Haryana’s NCR cities such as   and the national capital.
 
 “At present, there are only four   checking stations in the state. Soon there will be 19 more monitoring stations in Haryana. In Gurgaon, two more stations will be set up. As it is extremely difficult to get a comparative data on air pollution, a total of three stations in the city will give a clear picture,” KK Khandelwal, additional chief secretary (environment) of Haryana, told TOI.
 
 In 2013-14, the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) sanctioned three air quality monitoring stations for Gurgaon and 30 stations in total for Haryana. However, HSPCB has come up with plans to have 19 monitoring stations as of now.
 
 The lone ambient air quality monitoring station in the city is located at Vikas Sadan near Rajiv Chowk. And the decision to install more stations in Gurgaon was taken after the Supreme Court approved the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) of CPCB. GRAP gives out separate set of action plan depending on the levels of air quality — moderate, poor, very poor and severe.
 
 “It is important to bring down air pollution in states surrounding Delhi. Air quality in Delhi wouldn’t come down unless all required measures are taken by neighbouring states, including Haryana, Rajasthan and UP. Having ambient air monitoring system is the first step to understand the state of air pollution and then take required actions on a regular basis,” said Niranjan Raje, a former member of Environment Pollution (Prevention & Control) Authority.
 
 
