CHANDIGARH: Vulgar comments and sketches on the walls. Stray dogs on the corridors. These were among the many other anomalies spotted by the team from Chandigarh Commission for Protection of Child Rights (CCPCR) while inspecting Government Model Senior Secondary School in Sector 33.

 Giving further details, a member from the commission told  , “There were sketches of private parts and certain comments on the walls of a classroom and notice board. Stray dogs were also found sleeping on the corridors which is dangerous for the school children.”
 
 Commission has directed the class in-charge and school authorities to check. “Counselling of the students of the school is required in this required,” members said.
 
 On inquiring further, it was found that a case-wise counselling record of children was not being maintained by the counsellor and hence was asked to start preparing a record.
 
 The other anomalies in the school were that there were not enough   cameras covering sensitive areas and classrooms, Complaint box was installed but the same was too small, transparent and that too not easily accessible to students. Electrical fitting of fans and switch boards were in a need of immediate repair to avoid any fatal accident. Big water tanks were found open in washrooms. Police verifications of contractual employees were urgently required.
 
 However, the cleanliness of school was found to be up to the mark and all existing CCTV cameras were found to be functional.
 
 In   (AKSIPS) in Sector 45, the complaint boxes were not found to have been placed at proper places. With small display screen, CCTV cameras did not cover all sensitive areas like parking lot for school buses, playground and basement. Electrical control panels particularly near primary classes were found to remain open and easily accessible to children. There was no restroom along with the washroom for drivers, conductors and lady attendants. The inspection team also checked all the six buses of   45 and challaned one of them for not having permit.
 
 “Matter regarding parking of vehicles on both sides of the school’s gates during school hours which is a security threat to the school students, needs to be taken up with the Chandigarh police immediately,” a CCPR member said. The inspection has also brought forth the fact that the salaries to the employees has not been disbursed as per rules and provisions.
 
 “Principal has been asked to check the complaint box on a daily basis. The school authorities have been told that the display screen of CCTV needs to be replaced by the largest one for clear view. During verification, it was also found that the room for the security guard staying at night has not been earmarked. A telephonic connectivity between gatekeeper and the principal or the responsible officer of the school is essentially needed. Police verification of employees too has to be done immediately,” shared the members CCPCR. They were also asked to ensure entries of all employees of school at the entry gate.
 
