NAVI MUMBAI: The sand mafia has been extracting sand from two nullahs, which flow from   to the creek near  .

 Authorities have turned a blind eye to the sand mining.Truckloads of   are extracted on a daily basis and it has remained unchecked for weeks.NMMC officials seem to be oblivious about this chronic issue.
 
 Residents are aghast that such illegal activities take place even in illegal activities take place even in the nodal areas of the city and have demanded immediate action. Illegal sand extraction takes place in broad daylight despite the ban on removal of sand from embankments and water bodies.
 
 Besides, the residents have also been complaining about foul smell emanating from these two nullahs which carry chemical waste from industries in the   corridor.
 
 “The sand mafia in the city continues to blatantly extract sand from these nullhas that is a rich source of construction sand. In fact, every day several trucks carry this illegal sand and sell it in the open market mainly to builders. It's a lu crative business at the cost of the environment,“ said Deepak Gadre, a local resident who had brought this matter to the notice of civic officials few days back, but it seems to have gone in vain.
 
 Residents feel it's a huge business and a nexus between the mafia and authorities can't be ruled out. “For over a fortnight we have been observing such activities here. It appears that daily wage labourers are deployed to extract sand manually . I have not come across any machines being used,“ said Rajesh Poojary , a local resident.
 
 Around 25 labourers are involved in the activity . They even filter the sand with an iron mesh on the spot to get fine sand. “A huge amount of sand has been extracted while blocking and diverting the flow of the nullah. How are the authorities clueless about such an activity and no action has been taken,“ said activist Santosh Patil.
 
 Speaking to TOI, additional civic commissioner of NMMC, Ankush Chavan, said, “I am not aware of such activities in the area since no complaint has been registered. I will surely instruct the local officials in Sanpada and Nerul nodes to check the veracity of the matter and initiate necessary action soon.“
 
