NEW DELHI: Boarding a domestic airline will now be just a flight of fancy for   MP  , who beat up a 60-year-old   staffer with his sandal and tried to throw him out of the aircraft in Delhi on Thursday. In a first in the country, all scheduled   on Friday barred the Lok Sabha member from their flights for an indefinite period.

 Acting on complaints of the victim and Air India, the Delhi police registered an FIR against Gaikwad for attempt to commit culpable homicide and for assault or criminal force with an intent to dishonour a person. “We’re transferring the case to the crime branch for a thorough probe,” said senior police officer Dependra Pathak, adding that the MP may be called for questioning.
 
 But both Gaikwad and his party, Shiv Sena, remained unrepentant. While Gaikwad left for Mumbai by train, Sena spokesperson Sanjay Raut said Air India “needs to introspect” and ponder “what would happen if the public decides to blacklist the airline” — a not-so-veiled warning to the national carrier and other airlines that banned the MP as a passenger.
 
 Raut said, “Aam aadmi ho ya mantri ho, kisi ka bhi gussa phut sakta hai agar uske saath galat hua hai (anybody can lose their temper if they’ve been wronged, be it a common man or a minister)... Galti hui hai, haat utha hai... We’ll find out who’s responsible for this. So what if an FIR has been registered? Hum dekh lenge aur kis par FIR honi chahiye.”
 
 But Air India had already cancelled Gaikwad's booking. Gaikwad’s travel agent then booked a ticket on IndiGo’s 5.50pm Pune flight (6E 763). By this time, all scheduled airlines – including AI,  , Jet, SpiceJet, GoAir, Vistara – had barred him from flying and issued alerts on denying him reservation across their networks.
 
 “As soon as the booking was made on IndiGo for a Ravindra Gaikwad, an alert was generated. The airline contacted the travel agent who had booked the ticket, who told it was for the MP. On learning this, IndiGo immediately cancelled the booking,” a source said.
 
 Left with no alternative, Gaikwad reportedly took a train to Mumbai on Friday evening. He, however, got down at Mathura station after complaining of chest pain. Unless Gaikwad apologises, he may have to take a train back to Delhi to attend Parliament session or face police questioning.
 
 AI pilots have said unless Gaikwad tenders an unconditional apology for his misconduct, they will “not operate any flight which has (him) on board in the interest of safety and security of our own people.” The AI cabin crew association has also asked Lok Sabha Speaker Sumitra Mahajan to take stern action against Gaikwad.
 
 The MP submitted a complaint to Delhi Police alleging that he was made to travel in economy class by Air India, when he had a business class ticket. He claimed that when he protested against this, the airline staff members had abused, yelled at and pushed him out of the aircraft.
 
 Gaikwad, who went to watch Badrinath ki Dulhaniya on Thursday night a few hours after the assault, found his wings clipped on Friday morning itself. He was supposed to take AI’s 4pm Delhi-Pune flight (AI 849) and had dared the airline to not take him. “Kaise nahin le jayenge haemin. Wo aadmi or AI chairman aake maafi maange hamse (How can you deny me a flight. I want the man or the AI chairman to come and apologise to me),” he told the media in the morning.
 
 
