DHARMASTHALA: Harsh Kumar Bhanwala, chairman, National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (Nabard) launched an   for self-help groups set up under rural development scheme to facilitate their business transactions here on Wednesday. There are nearly 9 lakh   across India and   is in the process of digitizing their business, he said adding there is a dire need to use such a technology across the country at an accelerated pace.

 The use of technology by   to carry out its various business that is based on ‘dharma’ and reach out to the beneficiaries and aid their socio-economic and educational progress, is indeed a laudable move. It will only benefit the society if more people and organizations follow such example set up SKDRDP, he said adding Nabard too will extend help to organizations that seek to broad base their activities on a technological base.
 
 Averring that there is a need to provide good market facilities for small and marginal farmers, Harsh Kumar called upon farmers to ensure they use water resources judiciously at times when water scarcity is a harsh reality. Exhorting the stakeholders to switch over to drip irrigation and ensure savings of water, the Nabard chief said preservation of natural resources will be forced on people unless they take step for its conservation now rather than allow situation to turn critical.
 
 D Veerendra Heggade, dharmadhikari, Sri Kshetra Dharmasthala, who presided over the function, said that the beneficiaries of rural development programmes are partners in progress and harbingers of change. Belthangady taluk is the epi-center of rural development programmes and all are leading a life of self-dependency. People should be prudent in managing their expenses and save for the future as well, Heggade said exhorting people to stay away from personal vices.
 
 Hemavathi Heggade, wife of the dharmadhikari, felicitated the office bearers of a dozen SHGs of   zone who assumed office on this occasion. She advised women to develop business acumen and skills to lead an independent life. Use of technology will make the business of SHGs more easy and transparent. The office bearers should have upto date information about various rural development schemes, she noted. 
 
 
