NAVI MUMBAI: In the run up to the under-17 soccer World Cup, the city has decided to lead the state in promoting the game of   as part of the state government’s ‘Maharashtra Mission-One Million’ initiative. 

 Schools and colleges across the state have been instructed to make their playgrounds ready for holding a day-long football festival on Friday.
 
 Each school has been given three balls by the district sports offices to engage students in the shorter format of the competition. 
 
 More than 85 civic schools and 110 private schools in Navi Mumbai will participate in the festival. Thousands of students will be seen dribbling. 
 
 “Being the host city, Navi Mumbai has a bigger role to play in creating the football fever with the day-long festival well ahead of the under-17 World Cup. As many as 1 million youngsters across the state are expected to be part of the festival,” said  , deputy secretary of state education and school sports department. He met city-based sports teachers, district sports officials and NMMC officials at the civic headquarters on Thursday.
 
 According to Pawar, over 30,000 schools and colleges across the state will participate in the festival. 
 
 They have been asked to form teams of seven players each, including two reserve players, to slug it out for 5-a-side game. 
 
 “The playing arena will be 30mx 20m. Each game will be of 35 minutes, including the break time. The concept is to engage the children in outdoor games for fitness and good health and to divert their attention from gadgets,” said N B Mote, state deputy director of sports and youth services.
 
 “The matches will be played in two batches—between 8am and 12 noon and from 3pm to 5.30pm,” Mote said.
 
 Students were seen busy practising for the festival at various grounds across the city. “We have arranged for practices and matches for all age groups,” said Sunil Poojari, a football coach from Nerul.
 
 Speaking to TOI, municipal commissioner N Ramaswamy said, “Being the host city of the under-17 World Cup, we have to lead from the front to make this event a grand success. This football festival has been conceptualised by the state government as part of promotional activities.”
 
 Meanwhile, on Monday chief minister   released the ‘NMMC-FIFA’ logo for the sporting extravaganza.
 
 
