It was a Friday evening and hence we all were too excited to reach home. Weekend is indeed what we all wait for. So we hurried to get down from our office bus at a busy signal on SV Road near Malad station and took the route towards the station through a lane that passed through a lane full of wholesale shops and warehouses. 

  Gossips about office politics, bitching, weekend plans, and relationships were buzzing. Suddenly a man of around 45, as I remember clearly, came running from our left and crashed on a girl of around 10. The girl screamed as she fell down. But he escaped. She was numbed for a few seconds and then started crying.
 
  While a few of us quickly ran towards the girl, I observed that people around stood wherever they were. Even the pedestrians didn’t react. There was a tea shop just two steps ahead where the girl had fell. The tea vendor peeked a little look to whatever was happening around and continued with his chores. People on his stall had the same reaction too.
 
  Moreover, while we actually reached the spot, a few just passed by glancing over a little. The girl was still crying on the spot. She held a 20-rupee-note tightly in her hand. Her outfit somehow confirmed that she wasn’t from an affluent family. I helped her get up and sit near a huge log that served as a bench near the tea stall. I asked her what had happened but she didn’t reply. I asked about her family and whereabouts, she didn’t say. I asked people around what had happened and one man from the stall, sipping his tea, informed me that a man came running, banged on her and ran away. Then the tea stall owner informed that the girl lives nearby and had come to buy some tea and snacks at the stall and while she was asked to wait, the incident happened.
 
  Amongst everyone at the spot, the girl looked only at me while I kept showering her with some questions with the sole intention to help her. I hugged her and asked her again what had happened. She put her hands below her lower abdomen and hastily took it away, and continued crying. I realized what had happened. I asked her if she wanted anything. She walked out of the place crying.
 
  But I just stood there shocked! She didn’t look back while I waited her to come back. Somehow I knew she would not. A few seconds later, I realized that everyone had gotten busy. My friends asked me to walk ahead as we might miss the train. So, we walked away.
 
  But I couldn’t sleep that night till late. I was upset for the man who did this. Being a middle-aged man, he did not have the basic understanding that something that brought him a second’s worth of pleasure took away the innocence of a young girl for the rest of her life. This incident will be engraved in her memory life-long, traumatizing her forever. She was just 10, innocent in all aspects to an extent.
 
  Maybe now she will never have courage to come to that lane or the tea stall. And whenever she will be asked to, she will make excuses and if forced, she will rebel. Every time she will walk on the busy road, maybe she will be terrified of every man who passes by her. The fear of getting molested or being touched forcibly by a stranger will haunt her living daylights. She might also develop a discomfort with strangers, which usually might not be her personality. Who knows!
 
  And even if someday she gained the courage to be back at the tea stall or walk on busy roads, she will still take years to respect adults. Sometimes, the effects of abuse are not obvious, but they are always very serious.
 
  Such a young age is full of innocence, formative of one’s understanding of the world. But such incidents usually lead the childhood to many emotional and physiological issues that are hard to overcome. Will she be able to talk about this fearlessly? Will she ever share this incident with her family or just keep mum and buy tea and snacks from some other stall and go back home? Does her family environment allowed her to express her emotions about such issues at all?
 
  With such incidents taking place regularly, a child’s perception towards sexuality is altered in an inappropriate way. It could add to stigmatization wherein she might feel something different which is not necessarily good. This could affect her future relationships. In some cases, it also makes it difficult to sustain in the society cordially. She might get into a behaviour of reverting what she had gone through to someone much younger in age. 
 
  I am not a psychology student. I might have an understanding of emotions just like any other layman. However, I blame the man who did this to her and many men around the world who get away with such heinous actions and never think once before committing such a crime. 
 
  Why didn’t people around the scene react? Was this incident a routine? If that’s the case, why are we not making efforts of stopping it? We talk a lot about such incidents and react, get upset, write about it, research and conduct studies. But with all due respect, I earnestly feel that it is all of our duty to involve in the process that could uproot this evil from the society, not just the designated institutions working on it. It won’t take much from us.
 
  I feel that if someone would have made an attempt to catch hold of that man that day, maybe it would have helped the girl to believe that whatever happened that day was not her fault and that it was wrong. It has to be fought back. But I observed that the girl walked away and never looked back. Her eyes said that she knew what had happened with her. She didn’t look at anyone because maybe she knew no one would help her. Maybe this was not the first time she encountered this no one and knew how to react. Anyone in her place would have left the spot with an intention to escape from the eyes of the crowd that made her feel shameful! 
 
  By Rakhi Surendra Kankane 
 
 
