AHMEDABAD: In the upcoming   week, the state health department plans to carry out   activity across towns and cities for any remaining trivalent oral polio virus vaccine stock. The first set of surveillance for phasing out the old   was carried out in September last year when a WHO team detected Vaccine Derived Polio Type-2 virus from Ahmedabad city drains.

 “Researchers had told us that the virus that was detected was not a wild type-2 virus and it is the reason why we did not carry out a re-inoculation drive of children with the new bivalent polio vaccine,” said health commissioner J P Gupta. 
 
 He said, “We believe that the type-2 virus may have emerged from an old stock of vaccine which may have been administered to a child within the city, or a migrant child. But there is no need to worry, as it is not a wild type virus,” Gupta said.
 
 But a senior health official told TOI, “That the type-2 strain is vaccine-derived, by itself indicates that someone vaccinated 10 months to a year ago may have released the strain through stool which entered the drain. Such cases happen when a child's immunity is very low.”
 
 “We do not know how many weak and malnourished children may have released the virus in our state. To avoid such stray cases, which happens one in a million, the type-2 strain is no longer given even in vaccines,” said the official.
 
 At the moment, according to Gupta, there are more than 50,000 counters or places in the state from where the old polio vaccine had been dispensed to private clinics, local or general hospitals. 
 
 “Another round of surveillance will be carried out in the state for any remaining files of the old vaccine. But Telengana state on being told of detection of the type-2 virus from Hyderabad drains, had brought two lakh vaccines from Geneva to inoculate more than three lakh children in Hyderabad and   districts as a preventive measure.
 
 Gupta also said that Ahmedabad’s test was enough for the government to launch a surveillance in other cities and towns of Gujarat. 
 
 “Initially, we did not think of similar surveillance in Surat or Vadodara or any other major cities or towns as Ahmedabad was enough for beginning surveillance,” said Gupta.
 
