BENGALURU: Young   turned down an irresistible offer from a multinational company to pursue her passion – shooting. The 23-year-old, who won a gold at the Nationals last month, became the first woman from   to make the country’s senior   team for next month’s World Cup to be held in New Delhi.

 Meghana, who picked up the gun during the time   created history in Beijing in 2008, has now emerged as one of India’s top shooters after beating a mix of international shooters in Pune last month. A computer science engineer who graduated from Jain University last year with 75 percent marks, Meghana cemented her place in the squad by winning the first trials and finishing fifth in the second.
 
 “My hard work has paid off. I got placed through campus recruitment but I didn’t take up the offer unlike my 10 friends as I wanted to focus on my shooting,” Meghana told TOI. “I’m inspired by Abhinav Bindra’s achievements and just like any other shooter I also dream to win a medal at the Olympics,” she added.
 
 Asked about climbing the ladder from obscurity, the youngster said: “I got hooked to shooting after watching my brother in action at the SAI range. When we started there was no one to guide us and the facilities were poor. Now it is much easier as everything is transparent.”
 
 The gold in Pune was Meghana’s eighth Nationals. “I improved that to 417.6 at the trials,” she said. “I’m thankful to my family, coach Rakesh Manpat and college authorities for all their support that helped me to reach this level,” the Bengaluru shooter said.
 
 
 Men: 10m air rifle: Ravi Kumar, Deepak Kumar, Satyendra Singh.
 
 Rifle Prone: Gagan Narang, Chain Singh, Sushil Ghaley.
 
 3-Position: Sanjeev Rajput, Chain Singh, Satyendra Singh.
 
 10m air pistol: Jitu Rai, Amanpreet Singh, Omkar Singh.
 
 25m rapid fire pistol: Gurpreet Singh, Harpreet Singh, Neeraj Kumar.
 
 50m pistol: Jitu Rai, Amanpreet Singh, Gurpal Singh.
 
 Trap: Zoravar Singh, Kynan Chenai, Birendeep Singh Sodhi.
 
 Double trap: Sangram Dahiya, Ankur Mittal, Shapath Bharadwaj.
 
 Women: 10m air rifle: Pooja Ghatkar, Meghana Sajjanar, Vineeta Bharadwaj.
 
 10m air pistol: Heena Sidhu, Harveen Ahluwalia, Priyanka Susvikar.
 
 25m pistol: Heena Sidhu, Surabhi Pathak, Muskan.
 
 3-Position: Tejaswini Sawant, Elizabeth Susan Koshy, Anjum Moudgil.
 
 Skeet: Saniya Shaikh, Rashmee Rajput, Aarti Singh Rao.
 
 Trap: Seema Tomar, Rajeswari Kumari, Manisha Kheer
 
 
