Panaji: Illegal reclamation of low-lying tenanted agricultural land and eco-fragile areas for scrapyards and commercial activity, and problems of garbage and drains dominated the Sunday gram sabha of the   panchayat.

 The meeting, which was chaired by sarpanch Sunita Palyekar in the presence of St Cruz MLA, Tony Fernandes saw a heated exchange about the issue of shanties, with hundreds of occupants living in unhygienic conditions without toilets or basic amenities in two clusters of Morombi O Pequeno near KTC bus stand, and at Morombi O Grande near Chimbel river. Smital Hoble, a student, raised this issue, wanting to know why the panchayat is not initiating action against illegal activities and how electricity connections are provided to illegal occupants. “Without proper toilets, the streams and nullahs are getting polluted as the waste is disposed off in the water bodies,” she said.
 
 Some of the tenants who have allowed the illegalities created a ruckus, shouting down those who objected.
 
 Panchayat secretary, Oswin Mascarenhas said that authorities have already issued notices for demolition to the encroachers.
 
 Jerry Vaz, a resident raised a concern about the possibility of flooding due to construction of the court building in low lying fields. “If the lake nearby overflows, the built-up area may lead to water displacement,” he said.
 
 Jose Carmino Joao, a member said that the garbage collection was inadequate and litter was an eye sore everywhere, despite workers deployed to collect it. To which, the panchayat secretary said, “Only Rs One lakh is provided for collection, but no funds are provided under the Swachch Bharat scheme. He, however, did not disclose how much the panchayat has allocated for waste management. Deputy sarpanch Armstrong Braganza said, “The waste collection will have to be monitored through ward committees and panchas”.
 
 Regarding issue of old drains that kept the village free from flooding, Paulo D’Souza, a member claimed that most of drains had shrunk due to encroachment. The panchayat memebrs agreed that the drainage system will be identified, mapped and de-silted.
 
 Michael Dias, a member questioned the panchayat about the reason why the biodiversity management committee (BMC) had not been formed in Merces.
 
 
