HYDERABAD:  's order to ban liquor outlets along national highways (NHs) in the country will see about 160 stores in city limits being forced to shut shop or relocate as well. The state government has issued a directive to the excise department to implement the SC order immediately.

 The government has to relocate more than 1,200 wine shops and bars located near NHs criss-crossing the state.Of these, 160 shops are in   limits.Wine shops located in Hayatnagar, LB Nagar, Dilsukhnagar, Kukatpally, Serilingampally, Medchal, Uppal, Boduppal are now coming under the relocation drive and will have to move with immediate effect, a government of ficial said. “We have submitted a detailed report on the Supreme Court report and also the legal position as per the   to the state government. We have to follow the apex court's directive and we are taking steps in that direction,“ excise com missioner   told TOI.
 
 But none of these 160 wine shops want to shift their shops as it would result in loss of business. And as per existing law, the excise department has no powers to order them to shift to another place. “We have convinced some of the dealers to relocate themselves and negotiations are on with other dealers. We are exploring all options to comply with the Supreme Court's order,“ said an excise department official.
 
 As per the SC directive, wine shops and bars sh ould move beyond 500 meters from NHs. The apex court had also stipulated a deadline to the states asking them to relocate the liquor joints by March 31, 2017. This was communicated to owners of liquor joints by district superintendents. Identifi cation of wine shops through geo-tagging was completed by the officials who have found about 300 outlets on NH-44 connecting Adilabad and Mahbubnagar and nearly 200 wine shops on NH-65 connecting Zaheerabad and Kodada on a stretch of about 300 km. Five other national highways -NH-63 (Nizamabad to Chinnur), NH-167 (from Karnataka to Jadcherla), NH-163 (Hyderabad to Chhattisgarh), NH-30 and NH-61 also pass through Telangana.
 
 Of the more than 1.5 lakh deaths every year in road accidents, NHs contribute nearly 60 per cent. Taking strong objection to roadside bars and wine shops, the SC has prohibited the renewal of licences of existing shops after March 31.
 
