PUNE: In yet another incident that added to the growing unease of women in Pune, a 15-year-old girl was shown a pornographic clip by a stranger, under pretext of asking for directions. The incident occurred on Baner-Pashan Link Road -an area that happens to be a model for the smart city project -on February 15 around 5.20 pm. 

 Since 2016, Pune has seen an alarming rise in cases of  . While the murders of techies Rasila Raju OP and Antara Das remain foremost on people's minds, there was also the 19-year-old who was beaten and raped at an ST bus stand in Pimpri and the woman who was nearly choked to death by an ex boyfriend in their office cab. All this, despite police commissioner Rashmi Shukla's public announcements of enhanced security for women on the streets. 
 
 In this case, the victim was on her way to a coaching class, when she was stopped near Ojas Society by a man in a WagonR. Dressed in a white shirt and wearing black-framed spectacles, the man, who the girl said was possibly around 30, asked the victim the way to Pashan. When she asked for the exact address so she could direct him better, he pulled out his phone and, under pretext of showing her the address, showed her a pornographic clip.
 
 Terrified, the girl fled the spot. For nearly ten days, she couldn't speak of the incident at all. Finally, seeing her obvious discomfort, her father got her to talk to him.
 
 "The incident occurred on February 15, but the FIR was registered only on February 26. The girl was terrified and in shock after the incident. After her father learned about the incident, he rushed to lodge a complaint," said PSI Varsha Shinde of Chaturshrungi police station, who is investigating the case.
 
 While narrating the incident to Shinde, the girl also managed to give a description of the accused. Given that the cops know the exact location of the incident, they figured out that there is a CCTV camera in the vicinity which would definitely have captured the car parked at the spot and the entire incident, too.They plan to procure the footage soon and are confident that they will be able to identify the accused since his face would have been captured in it.
 
 The girl is a resident of Pashan and comes from a well-to-do family. Her coaching classes were nearby and she always walks there and back. Now, even these regular, short walks have become a cause for fear. "We have charged the accused under Section 354 (A) for outraging the girl's modesty under the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Sections 11(3) and 12 from the Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act have also been applied. We shall launch a search for the accused as soon as we get our hands on the CCTV footage," added Shinde.
 
 Anurag Bharadwaj, chairman of Baner-Balewadi Residents' Association, had no idea that such an incident had happened, but assured that it would be their priority to look into it and ensure that the culprit is caught.
 
 "This is not the first time that something like this has happened. Girls living in hostels in the area often complain of unwanted attention from boys. There is little surveillance and even streetlights are scarce in some spots. We have spoken to the corporator and the cops to streamline things, but in vain. Regarding this incident, we shall go and meet police commissioner Rashmi Shukla and push for more security in the area," he said.
 
 "The commissioner should send directives to all housing societies here to ensure they have functional CCTV cameras. Also, lighting must be increased in the by-lanes. This is one of very few incidents that have actually come to light," Bharadwaj added.
 
 For parents living in these areas, their fears for their daughter's' safety have only magnified."I have two daughters and 7 pm is their deadline to get home. Incidents like this are extremely scary because there is no way of preventing them. I am never at peace till both my daughters are in the house. The question of how to keep them safe never leaves my mind," said Pratiksha Waradkar, a resident of Baner.
 
