MADURAI:   persons in the district have alleged misappropriation of   in providing equipment to them during 2013-2014. They have also accused the district collector of refusing to initiate action in this regard even after an RDO inquiry confirmed the swindle.

 Speaking to mediapersons, S Raja, the state secretary of the “Crawling Differently-abled People’s Federation”, said that every year Rs 5 lakh was being earmarked from the MLAs’ fund for the differently-abled in each district. This money was predominantly used to procure and supply prostheses, artificial limbs and calipers to differently-abled persons. As Madurai has 10 assembly constituencies this fund amounted to Rs 50 lakhs.
 
 A company named R R Remedies based in Salem is the authorised dealer for supplying products needed for the differently-abled in the state. The equipment is procured and supplied through the respective district differently abled welfare officer in each district. "I submitted a petition to the   collector on June 30 last year saying that the differently-abled office in Madurai had obtained a sub contract from the firm. It was manufacturing the artificial limbs at the old office for the differently-abled based in Villapuram. The collector ordered an RDO inquiry,” he said.
 
 But as the district co-ordination committee for the disabled which had to be convened twice a year failed to meet on December 30 last year as planned, the details of the RDO inquiry were not known. Hence an RTI was filed to know the status. The RTI revealed that the RDO inquiry report had been submitted to the Madurai district collector on November 3, 2016. The same was submitted to the collector by the differently abled persons association also on May 31 this year, but no action was taken. ``This is what is happening throughout the state and only we have taken it up,’’ he said.
 
 In the report, the RDO has said that there was no loss to the government, but it was found that the beneficiaries were not as per the records. Also, it was revealed that the junior rehabilitation officer S Ulaganathan, had manufactured the artificial limbs using plaster of paris and also transported them though he had claimed that he was carrying out only repair works.
 
  A resident of Villapuram where the old office is situated, had told the inquiring officer that he had seen Ulaganathan making artificial limbs with the help of a driver on weekends and holidays. The RDO found that in all, 12   had been transported in a vehicle belonging to his son Alagar, and that he had been paid Rs 350 as transportation charges. Many of the beneficiaries had complained that the limbs did not fit them well.
 
 When contacted, the Madurai district collector   said that he had received the RDO’s report and that he had sought an explanation from the concerned officials and would take action based on it.
 
 RDO K Senthilkumari had stated in her report that though there was no loss of revenue to the government in terms of utilisation of MLA funds for the differently abled in the district for the year 2013 – 2014, it was found that the beneficiaries had been given the equipment in haste and that the making of the limbs in the office of the differently-abled at Villapuram was wrong. She recommended action against the concerned officials but no action had been taken yet, he said.
 
