Aurangabad: Just Rs 19.8 crore has been allocated for mitigating the long-term environmental losses due to the proposed 155km-long Jalna-Aurangabad stretch coming up at a cost of Rs 7,579 crore as part of the access controlled Nagpur-Mumbai expressway, also known as Samruddhi e-way.  The stretch, described as package III of the e-way, will come up at the cost of nearly 27 hectare forest land and 5,309 trees, besides other ecological degradation.  The allocation of less than 1% of the project cost to environment budget has not gone down well with the green activists, who have sought corrective measures.  The draft Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) report to be submitted before the ministry of environment and forests (MoEF) has revealed the extent of green-damage the project is going to cause.  The report, which states that long-term negative green impacts can be mitigated by way of compensatory afforestation and other measures, has stipulated only Rs 19.8 crore environmental budget to replenish the green loss. It includes Rs 16.3 crore towards actual mitigation measures, along with Rs 2.49 crore for monitoring and 94.22 lakh for contingency funds, among other arrangements.  The EIA has covered areas from Nhava village in Jalna taluka, border areas of Jalna district to Surala village in Vaijapur taluka of Aurangabad district and border areas of Aurangabad district to seek green clearance for package III of the e-way.  As many as 399 trees/plants from forest areas exist in the proposed right-of-way of the project corridor which are going to be affected. The EIA report states that it would change the micro level environment of the area, but through compensatory afforestation in 1:2 ratio or as per the instruction of the forest department will again improve the greenery of the area. Total 26.877 hectare forest land will be diverted for the project, all falling in Aurangabad district.  “We were expecting at least 1% of the total cost of the stretch as allocation towards environment budget. Mitigation measures will be large-scale and have to be taken for a longer period, considering the damage to nearly 27 hectare forest land and 5,309 trees, environmentalist Kishor Pathak said.  The Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation Limited (MSRDC) had appointed M/s Louis Berger for preparation of a feasibility study and detailed project report for Jalna-Aurangabad stretch.  While separate public hearings for Aurangabad and Jalna districts were conducted on April 27 and May 3, respectively, many experts plead ignorance about it.  Environmentalist Pankaj Shakkarwar said no desired publicity was given to these hearings. The public consultations inviting suggestions or objections should have received publicity as wide as that of the project itself. The hearings would have suggested ways to minimise ecological damage and recommended budget to mitigate losses, he said.  Shakkarwar also said that merely taking into account the number of trees to be cut was an incorrect way to measure the environmental loss. “Authorities should look at issues in a broader perspective. We will have to consider how many habitats, including grasslands, scrubs and even arid, are getting affected and how ill-effects of it can be replicated,” he added.  When contacted, Narendra Toke, environment advisor for MSRDC, said the public hearings had taken care of feedback of stakeholders. “The feedback would be incorporated in the final report to be tabled before the MoEF,” he said, refuting charges that no due publicity was given to such public consultations. Cost of devpt  * The major long-term negative impact will be the permanent loss of 26.877 hectare forests, 1,858 hectare non-forest land, and felling 5309 trees. There may also be small-scale temporary impacts on wildlife habitats. However, EIA report, citing certain investigations, show that this is not a significant issue for important protected species. Plantation under compensatory afforestation suggested as one of the mitigation measure. * The short-term negative impacts envisaged include disturbance to wildlife and settlements, localised dust pollution, increased sediments in water bodies and small-scale erosion. However, most of these can be adequately mitigated through practising environmental friendly road construction techniques among other measures, EIA states. Loss of forest land Village Forest land (hectare) Warzadi 2.717 Pokhari 2.564 Krishnapur 1.514 Jatwada 0.267 Shendraban 5.645 Abdimandi 3.03 Bhikhapur 5.589 Jaipur 5.55 Surface water bodies to be affected River 3 Ponds 26 Canals 3 Local streams 59 Wells 356 (Source- Draft EIA report of package III of Access Controlled Nagpur-Mumbai Expressway) 