At the   in Varanasi on Thursday evening, amidst chants of 'Har Har Mahadeva' and 'Ganga Maiyya ki jai',   took a holy dip in the Ganges and performed Ganga pujan. Though the priests tried to dissaude her, the actress, dressed in a gold nauvari sari, went ahead and took several dips in the river. The actress also went on a boat ride on a bajra with her mother Asha and family priest Pt Sachindra Nath.

  
  Kangana Ranaut performing the Ganga pujan at the Dashashwamedh ghat in Banaras
 
  Soaking in the ambience of the ghat, the National Award-winning actress, whose next film kicked-off from the holy city, said, "I am feeling blessed to be here. Peeche jo raag chal raha hai (pointing to the devotional music being played in the background), woh ek perfect background music hai. To start a project on Ganga ghat and with the blessing of Lord Shiva – this is a great moment for all of us. I hope we are able to live up to the legacy of the legendary Rani Lakshmibai".
 
  
  The actress after performing a puja at the Kashi Vishwanath Temple
 
 
  The actress also made a surprising revelation at the ghats: "I feel whatever I have done in the last 11 years has led me to it, it completes me. I am 30 now and I don’t see myself working with another director after this. I will focus on being a filmmaker."
 
  
  
 
 
  On the home front too, Kangana is prepping up for some changes. Sister Rangoli is pregnant. Kangana reasoned that the maternal instinct is a part of human growth. "We all have it, as soon as we pass teenage years, we start to mother our parents. I love babies and babies love me. Though I don't have much patience with newborn, I know I will be trained in handling one as we are expecting a baby in our family soon," she said.
 
 
 
 At Varanasi, Kangana, who will be playing Rani Lakshmibai in an upcoming film, said that she empathises with the Jhansi ki Rani who single-handedly took on the British. Pointing out that the warrior queen’s most amazing quality was her righteousness, Kangana said, "She had a great sense of right and wrong, fair and unfair, just and unjust. That’s a quality of hers that I identify with. The British did ask her to choose between life and death. She chose not to live without dignity and that's pretty much my philosophy. You cannot live without your pride as a woman." Incidentally, Manikarnika, popularly known as Rani Lakshmibai, was born in Varanasi.
 
  While Kangana was already in Varanasi with her mother, on Thursday, the actor was joined by the director of the film Radha Krishna Jagarlamudi 'Krish', writer KV Vijayendra Prasad, singer Richa Sharma and music directors Shankar, Ehsaan and Loy, who are composing the music for this film. Writer Prasoon Joshi, who is writing the lyrics for the film's songs, also reached Varanasi to be part of the Ganga pujan the same day. 
 
  KV Vijayendra Prasad shared, "I had visited Banaras earlier, several decades ago, and had gone to places like Kashi Vishwanath Temple, Annapurna Temple and Manikarnika ghat. Some years later, a daughter was born to me whom I named as Manikarnika, so I feel a deep connect with the city." Meanwhile, Shankar Mahadevan also said that he was taken by this city. He said, "It is always a privilege to come to Banaras, the aura of the city gives you goosebumps!"
 
 
 
 
 
 
