A   is battling for life after he  ,  , mistaking it for water while assisting his seniors in a day-long surgery on Tuesday. The hospital has ordered an inquiry after it emerged that the bottle containing the colourless chemical was kept in the doctors’ room abutting the operation theatre.

 A preliminary probe by the hospital management said that resident doctor  , 27, was a part of the team conducting an orthopaedic surgery when he stepped inside the doctors’ room to quench his thirst.
 
 “The surgery had started early on Tuesday and went on till 6 pm. Towards the end, Ramteke stepped inside the doctors’ room and asked a nurse for water.”
 
 She found a bottle that wasn’t labelled and assumed it was water. Ramteke collapsed within seconds, complaining of severe burning sensation and pain in abdomen. Formalin is a human carcinogen used in fumigating the operation theatre, and it was later revealed the bottle contained 40% of it,” one of Ramteke’s colleagues told Mumbai Mirror.
 
 The hospital has launched a probe to know how an unlabelled bottle containing a hazardous chemical reached the doctors’ room. “If such carelessness goes unchecked, it also puts patients’ lives at risk,” a senior doctor said.
 
 Ramteke has been admitted to the   at his family’s insistence, and doctors said he was on ventilator support and also needed dialysis. His parents have rushed to the city from their hometown Nagpur, and the LT Marg Police Station has been informed about the incident.
 
 The JJ Hospital doctors said that as per the norms, hazardous chemicals are always stored in labelled containers, and never kept in rooms. “Someone from the housekeeping has not been doing his/her job,” a senior doctor said.
 
 Ramteke’s father Suryabhan, a Class III government employee, said he was shocked that a resident doctor at a state-run hospital in Mumbai could suffer such an accident.
 
 “What more can I say,” Suryabhan said, “I hope there is a detailed probe and the guilty are punished to ensure there is no repeat of this incident.”
 
 An update from the Bombay Hospital said that Ramteke consumed around 100 ml of the chemical, and because of its high levels of toxicity, he has developed hypoxia, which is a condition wherein the body or the affected area is deprived of adequate oxygen supply. “There is also a slight damage to the food pipe. He will have to undergo bronchoscopy to evaluate the damage,” a doctor from the Bombay Hospital said.
 
 The LT Marg police will have to wait for Ramteke’s condition to stabilise before they can record his statement, even as the JJ Hospital dean, Dr TP Lahane, said statements of the nurses, ward boys and doctors present in the operation theatre were being recorded.
 
 “I have addressed all department heads and the nurses in-charge of the operation theatre to ensure these chemicals are stored properly. Ramteke is being treated at the Bombay Hospital on his family’s insistence and we are in touch with the doctors there,” Lahane said.
 
