CHENNAI: Landfills operated by erstwhile local bodies in   will now be used to process   and   generated in the city.

 The sites were identified after a   review meeting in February decided to de-link collection and processing of such waste from regular municipal solid waste (MSW). The Centre’s Construction and Demolition Waste Management Rules, 2016 also dictate local bodies to recycle such waste separately.
 
 The proposal, ratified by the Special Officer’s council in April, means C&D waste will not be taken to the Kodungaiyur and Perungudi landfills after the project is operational.
 
 Consultants appointed to study feasibility of the project submitted a report last Saturday, the sources daid. “The consultants have identified localities where generation of C&D waste is maximum. The city is estimated to generate over 1,200 tonnes of C&D waste per day.”
 
 “Two contractors will be hired to handle C&D waste generated in the north and south,” they added. The contractors will be different from those who will be awarded tenders on the Rs 1,442 crore project to privatise conservancy work and setting up Waste-to-Energy plants at the Kodungaiyur and Perungudi landfills.
 
 “The firms (that will be selected) will have expertise in handling C&D waste. Nothing has been decided as to how (process) the waste will be recycled. If the contractor has viable plans, we are open to listening,” an official said.
 
 In Ambattur, the Athipattu landfill will be used, putting the corporation’s six-year-long attempt to remediate it in jeopardy. Officials, however, said the new processing site would come up only after the municipal solid waste is cleared.
 
 The Pallikaranai landfill site, opposite the National Institute of Wind Energy on  , is where a massive fire broke out in 2012 and prompted the corporation to plan a 3,000-seat convention centre (bigger than the Chennai Trade Centre) on the 15-acre dumpsite. That proposal has now been consigned to the dustbin. In December 2016, the corporation identified 15 spots, one for each zone, for dumping C&D waste. In a statement, special officer D Karthikeyan warned that such waste must not be dumped elsewhere and violators could being fined. The move came to nought a few days later when cyclone Vardah struck.
 
 
