NEW DELHI: Delhi’s urban development minister   has directed the secretary of the urban development department to immediately file an   against department officials following the disappearance of a file bearing details of past nominations of aldermen and the procedure followed in the  . Jain has also directed the secretary to reconstitute the current nominations file on priority basis as aldermen have to be named to the newly elected municipal corporations.

 A copy of the letter, which is in the possession of TOI, states, “It has been reported by OS/Dy. Director (Local Bodies) that the file is missing. This is a very important file and malafide cannot be ruled out. Hence, immediately file an FIR, fix responsibility and initiate disciplinary/vigilance proceedings against the errant officials of UD department.”
 
 After the file was discovered to be missing, Jain instructed the urban development secretary to quickly initiate the process of reconstitution the list of nominations. As per the rules, following the first meeting of the House in the municipal corporations, the nominations of alderman have to be completed to ensure that the nominated members can take part in further meetings without delay.
 
 “The House proceedings have already been initiated, but there are 30 members still to be nominated by the LG. The process has been delayed this time,” said a senior North Delhi Municipal Corporation official. He added that the political party also have to constitute ward committees at the earliest to avoid any delay in development work.
 
 Under the Delhi Municipal Corporation Act, 30 people are nominated as aldermen, now known more as ‘nominated members’ to the municipal bodies by the lieutenant governor on the recommendation of the chief minister. After the trifurcation of the erstwhile Municipal Corporation of Delhi in 2012, each of the three civic bodies has 10 nominated members as aldermen. They do not have voting rights, but are drawn from various fields and act as experts in the municipal bodies.
 
 A senior North Delhi Municipal Corporation official explained that an alderman worked with officials in formulating policies. “An alderman can be a resident of a colony or a member of a political party, but must have some expertise in a particular field,” the official said. “Mostly, those selected have expertise in fields like engineering, horticulture and sanitation. Their job is to monitor the work of the civic bodies and to keep updating the officials about them, while providing their expert views in forming any policy.”
 
 
