KOCHI: A few months ago, near the highly-secretive US-UK military base of Diego Garcia in the Indian Ocean, Indian fisherman were playing hide and seek with  ,   used by   for   operating in the  . Pacific Marlin, which induced fear among the law-breaking fisherman, finally met its end four months ago, ironically, at the shipbreaking yard in Alang, Gujarat.

 According to Shipbreakingplatform.org, a database that tracks the ships decommissioned globally, Pacific Marlin was sold to an Indian ship-breaker in June 2016, which reached Alang four months ago.“We demolished Pacific Marlin, which was sold to us by Swire Pacific Offshore,“ said Sanjay Mehta, MD, Priya Blue Industries.
 
 Built in Japan in 1978, Pacific Marlin was used as an offshore supply vessel till 1992, when it was converted into a tug boat. She was 58m long and had flown the Singapore flag. British Indian Ocean Territory (BIOT) authorities had chartered the vessel from Singapore based Swire Pacific Offshore on a long-term contract since 2006 for conducting offshore island sovereignty patrol (OISP) of Chagos Islands, including Diego Garcia.
 
 Over the past two years, Pacific Marlin had caught 15 Indian fishing boats and BIOT authorities reported them to Indian Ocean Tuna Commission (IOTC) for illegal fishing in their waters. Further, IOTC listed them all on the provisional illegal, unreported and unregulated (IUU) list.
 
 The boats on the provisional IUU list are: Benaiah, Bosin, Carmal Matha, Dignamol 1, Dignamol 2, Greeshma, King Jesus, St Mary's 1, St Mary's 2, Beo Hingis, Joshva, Joshva 1, Sacred Heart, Vachanam and Wisdom. While almost all of them are registered in Tamil Nadu, Beo Hingis was registered in Ernakulam.
 
 There were other Indian boats that escaped detention by speeding away . Pacific Marlin had a top speed of only 12.5 knots per hour. Sagara Rose, Sujamol, Sivaprasen, Holy Family and Manumon were spotted near Diego Garcia in 2014. They sped away at 13 knots when Pacific Marlin approached them, revealed IOTC records.
 
 Why is BIOT authorities taking so much pain to conserve the marine eco-system of Diego Garcia and surrounding areas? “The Chagos marine protected area (MPA) provides a safe refuge for multiple marine species within the Indian Ocean, simultaneously sustaining the surrounding waters via the spill-over effect,“ said Daniel Fernando, co-founder of Blue Resources Trust, Sri Lanka, who had travelled aboard Pacific Marlin to conduct research on manta rays.
 
 “The incentive to fish illegally within this MPA, specifically targeting high-valued and threatened species such as sharks and rays, is indicative of the success of such protected areas and the extent to which fishers seek out remaining fish stocks. It is essential that Indian Ocean nations recognise the value of such marine parks and work closely for the long-term sustainability of fisheries through improved enforcement measures, the expansion of no take zones, and the introduction of more specific fishing techniques and management controls that reduce bycatch and enable the implementation of catch limits,“ Fernando said.
 
 With Indian vessels being sighted and caught near Diego Garcia, the UK's foreign and commonwealth office had written to the Indian High Commission in London, towards the end of 2014 asking to educate the fishing communities in Tamil Nadu against illegal fishing.
 
 During its last decade of existence, Pacific Marlin was engaged in protecting the fragile marine ecosystem in and around Diego Garcia from illegal fishing boats.But, the vessel itself was accused of polluting the environment with human waste. The Independent had revealed that Prof Charles Sheppard OBE, a scientific adviser to the foreign and commonwealth office in 2013, had reported to the British government that Pacific Marlin was `a regular culprit in terms of sewage discharge' on the docks of Diego Garcia.
 
