CHENNAI: Planning to buy a two-wheeler? The next two days before the weekend may be the best time to do so. Two-wheeler dealers stuck with BS-III stock have been 
  since mid-March but those are expected to go up sharply in the next two days as dealers and companies rush to liquidate BS-III stock. 

 Although most companies remained tight-lipped about their BS-III stock strategy, dealers and officials spoke about 'customer benefits' going up to 20-25% particularly on slow moving models. "In the commuter segment alone the discounts for the past two weeks have been in the range of Rs 4,000-5,000 in some models, brands and geographies," said a senior official with a two-wheeler financing firm. 
 
 "The discounts will be higher in higher priced models but even mopeds are fetching around Rs 1,000-2,000 discount in some geographies."
 
 Sources say in some higher-priced models in the Rs 1 lakh and above range, discounts are in the range of Rs 15,000-20,000. For example the Honda CBR 250R and CBR 150R are fetching cash discount of Rs 15,000 in some dealerships and geographies while the rest of the range, including scooters, get Rs 7,500 off in those sectors. 
 
  But many two-wheeler dealers, anticipating a crush-like scenario towards the month-end, had kicked off promotional activities by the middle of the month. "What helped is that this is Navratra and with Gudi Pawa also thrown in, it is traditionally a high-sales month," said a two-wheeler marketer. Even market leader Hero Motocorp, which had declared close to 3,00,000 unsold stock as on March 20 (comprising 40% of the total two-wheeler unsold inventory of 6.71 lakh) had managed to liquidate nearly 2,00,000 units in the last nine days, say sources. "The last few days of March are high-retail days and sales can be as high as even 30,000 units a day," said a dealer source.
 
 "We have reduced our inventory significantly in the past few months with the aim to minimize our stakeholder losses. However, environmental protection will take precedence over temporary financial benefit," Hero Motocorp CMD & CEO Pawan Munjal said in a statement.
 
 Dealer sources also say that in many geographies, particularly non-metros, the RTOs have offered the dealers an option to prepare the invoice and pay taxes on the unsold stock and fill up customer details over the next one week.
 
 Two-wheeler marketers also say that the stock that remains unsold or stuck at factory gates may be exported to markets where 
  are legally roadworthy. Top two-wheeler companies like Hero Motocorp, TVS, Bajaj are all aggressive exporters with a footprint in the ASEAN and south America and exporting to these geographies is an option they may look at. Commercial vehicle maker Ashok Leyland has already indicated it will use the import 'what you cant sell' route to liquidate remaining BS-III stock. In a statement, Vinod Dasari, MD&CEO, Ashok Leyland said, "Given the current demand, majority of the vehicles in the pipeline have already been sold. Some more will be sold in the next couple of days where we have customer orders. Of the little inventory that we expect to remain beyond this, we will export them to other markets where we have significant presence and still operate on BS-III norms."
 
 
