VELLORE: The Vellore district administration has sealed three packaged drinking water and manufacturer companies functioning in   village near Thimmampettai in Vaniyambadi taluk on Tuesday following protest by villagers.
 
 Tahsildar of Vaniyambadi Murali Kumar, deputy superintendent of police of the sub-division K Sundaram and others reached the village around 4pm and sealed the three units manufacturing and selling packaged drinking water in the brand name of Jal Aqua, Surabi and Yelgris.
  
 While Yelgris Foods India had been running its packaged drinking water unit in the village for 16 years, the units of Jal Aqua and Surabi packaged drinking water had been running its unit for around 12 and five years respectively.
  
 After the officials sealed the units, the villagers distributed sweets among themselves to celebrate their protest against the unit for the last two weeks. 
 
 The villagers have stopped efforts to transport packaged drinking water from the companies since April 20 and also damaged a mini truck of Yelgris that was brought to ferry water cans on Sunday.
  
 Following the incident, the protest took an ugly turn. The villagers assaulted the driver of the company after he reportedly threatened them stating that he would crush them to death if they stopped them from transporting the water cans. The Thimmampettai police have also booked 12 villagers on charges of rioting, assaulting and wrongful confinement of the company staff and driver.
  
 The management of Yelgris Foods said that they did not receive any communication regarding the closure of the unit. “We have obtained proper permission from the panchayat to the central government and running the unit as per the government norms. We don’t know on what grounds, the unit has been closed by the district administration. We have also not informed about the closure,” said a staff in the company.
  
 He added that they are members of the Greater   Packaged Drinking Water and Manufacturer Association, which has 1,200 units as members in the state.
  
 Denying the charges of the villagers, who claimed that the companies had been drawing excessive of groundwater using powerful submerge motor pumps from the Mannar river, he said they had sunk 8.5 HP submerge motor pumps and drawing water as per the prescribed norms. “We are forced to close the unit. Though we approach the court and obtain an order to continue the unit, the district administration and government is not in the position to execute the court order. The officials succumb to the pressure from the villagers,” he said.
  
 Sensing the situation, the district administration decided to seal the company for the time being to restore normalcy.
  
 District   S A Raman told TOI that though the units had obtained permission from the government authorities and also obtained stay order from the Southern Zone of the National Green Tribunal to run the units without any interruption, they have decided to close down the units due to the prevailing drought and strong objection from the villagers. 
 
 “The units are closed temporary. If situation improves, we will revoke the suspension order. Vaniyambadi tahsildar and BDO have communicated to the management of the three companies,” the collector said. 
 
 
