Of what use could be old newspapers, coconut shells and old saris — plenty! 

 Instead of dumping them into trash, they can be used as biodegradable alternative to plastics, is the message that the   conveys. Organised at the Sree Chithira Thirunal Park at West Fort in Trivandrum as part of the move to make the capital city plastic-free by the  , the expo features more than 10 stalls with plastic alternatives formulated by various city- based individuals and Kudumbasree units along with Museum of Habitual Errors, a campaign to reduce plastic in the city.
 
 
 
 Aiming at a plastic-free environment, the stalls have exhibited novel and traditional methods to help the city folk avoid the use of plastic bags in their daily lives.
 The organisers advocate the use of the old cloth bags or the kaya sanchi, which our grandparents used for shopping. 
 According to Praveen P, a stall keeper, the cloth bags are foldable and easy to carry in pockets when not in use. “Being eco-friendly, cloth bags are an alternative for the plastic carry bags. One big sanchi can hold 40 kg and is enough to carry groceries and vegetables instead of multiple plastic carry bags.”
 In order to make the kaya sanchi more attractive, they come in printed designs.
 
 “They are washable, re-usable, recyclable and degradable when disposed of,” says Praveen. 
 Paper bags are also on display which is an effective substitute for the plastic carry bags. Varying in size and texture, the paper bags have a lot of takers, say the stall keepers. “There is a misconception that paper bags are not strong enough. But when made using thick sheets of paper joined with coir threads, they can carry household items including groceries. We have received around 40 bulk orders from individual shops, restaurants and textile outlets in the past one week. Homemakers in the city are also interested in knowing how to make paper bags,” says Asha AR, a stall keeper. 
 Pointing to the collection of bags made from old saris, she says, “From one sari we could make 12 sari bags of medium size. Customers can exchange old saris for sari bags for which we charge only a minimum of 10 to 20 rupees.” 
 
 Meena Shankar, a homemaker from Sashthamangalam, says, “Plastic menace has turned to be a headache for all of us and the alternatives exhibited here is a relief. There are Do It Yourself sessions in the stalls that teach us how to make these organic bags. I found the sari bags interesting as I could use my old saris as raw material for it. I could also sell them to those interested.” 
 
 
 
 It seems even the youth are gung-ho about going green. The pouch bags, printed cloth bags, patch-worked purses and sling cloth bags are selling like hot cakes at the expo. Jithu S, a stall keeper says, “The pouch bags cost just `150 and the youngsters carry them like a style statement.”
 Leena Jain, a Kudumbasree unit worker from Kovalam echoes the same, “The earrings and necklaces made from glossy magazine paper which resembles beads have a lot of takers.”
 
 Remember the time when coconut shells were used as utensils? Sabeena Bevi, a stall keeper, says that coconut shell cups are making a comeback. “They can be used as a replacement for plastic utensils like jugs or cups. Before the advent of plastic, we used utensils made of natural fibres. The coconut shell is an eco-friendly alternative for plastic in our daily life — tea cups, jugs, soup bowls, spice trays, containers, pen stand, flower vase etc. It’s heartening to see that many resorts in the city are using bowls, cups and jugs made of coconut shells. These will last for years if washed and dried under the sun after use,” says Sabeena.
 
 
 
 Right at the entrance, an art installation made using more than 10,000 discarded plastic bottles collected from across the city welcome visitors. The installation, says Ganga Dileep, the brain behind it, is an eye opener to the public on the grave consequences of pollution by plastics. “From here the visitors will be guided to the stalls were they can find alternatives for plastic in their life,” he says. Albi Martin, a techie observes, “They have arranged e-waste, used pens, straws, plastic wrappers, flex boards and even napkins as museum exhibits inside the ‘bottle house’. It makes us realise that we are responsible for our own waste and for polluting our surroundings. While travelling I used to throw plastic bottles on the railway tracks after use. After seeing the installation, I have decided not to do it anymore.”
 
 
 
 Whenever there is a regulation on plastic usage, the public counter it with a question on what alternative to use. The expo, says Trivandrum Mayor VK Prasanth, is an answer to that. “You can’t implement a plastic ban overnight. But with availability of alternatives and strict enforcement, the plastic carry bags will slowly disappear from the city.”
 He adds, “Raids will be carried in hotels, restaurants, shopping malls and other shops by the health circle officers with the help of city police after March 1. We will pressure the merchants to adopt alternatives for plastic bags. Soon, we will be able to impose the plastic ban strictly in the city.” 
 
 
