Visakhapatnam: The urban poor are becoming increasingly more vulnerable to   and   compared to their rural counterparts, according to a study undertaken by Indian Council of Medical Research. The study ‘ICMR - India Diabetes (INDIAB)’ was published in Lancet, a British medical journal.

 The study revealed an epidemiological transition in   with regard to the disease. While it was a known fact that residents of urban Andhra Pradesh have been battling diabetes, it is now increasingly affecting the urban poor.
 
 The study, undertaken to ascertain the prevalence of diabetes and pre-diabetes in 15 states of the country, put the overall diabetes burden of Andhra Pradesh at 8.4%. The disease burden in the urban areas (12.6%) is almost double when compared to rural AP’s 6.3%.
 
 The study has also identified 10% cases of pre-diabetesin Andhra Pradesh, which is a sign of the growing prevalence of the disease among the youth. The prevalence of impaired fasting glucose was found to be substantially higher than that of impaired glucose tolerance in the study.
 
 The sample size of individuals from Andhra Pradesh was 3,633, with 1,099 people from urban areas and 2,534 from the rural areas.
 
 Dr P Ramana Rao, a general physician, commented that the change in the pattern of the disease might be due to the fact that individuals belonging to higher socio-economic status can afford to adopt a healthy lifestyle and behavioural changes. “When it comes to the disadvantaged sections in the urban areas, the awareness is still low. Adopting a healthy lifestyle, food habits and tackling stress can go a long way in reducing a person’s risk of contracting diabetes,” said Dr Rao.
 
 Capillary oral glucose tolerance tests were used to diagnose diabetes and prediabetes in accordance with the World Health Organization (WHO) criteria. Among the study subjects (3,633) from Andhra Pradesh, 2.6% people were newly diagnosed with diabetes. About 5.8% people have self-reported diabetes. About 7.3% persons were found to have impaired fasting glucose and 1.9% persons with impaired glucose tolerance. The total diabetes-to-prediabetes ratio stood at 1:1.2.
 
 The alarming factor of the study is that while the number of prediabetes cases in urban and rural areas of Andhra Pradesh is almost equal, that is, 9.6% and 11.1% respectively, there is a huge difference in diabetes cases in rural and urban areas.
 
 Given that a major section of the population still lives in rural Andhra Pradesh, the study stressed on the fact that the prevalence of diabetes in rural areas will further burden the already strained healthcare system.
 
 
