LUCKNOW: Newly appointed DG of  ,  , has strongly recommended a change in   ( ) in the  . In an exclusive interview with TOI -- his first after taking over the charge -- Bhatnagar said that the manpower from state and regional forces must be involved -- if not 50% then at least 33% -- in joint operations to tackle the left wing extremist groups (LWEGs).

 Bhatnagar said that the combat operations against Naxal groups, most of them underground or hiding with the rural and tribal populations, should not be carried out in isolation by the Central forces. “Our boys are unacquainted with the local language, topography and strangers in inaccessible forests while the state police are well-entrenched in their territory. This has to be joint operations with the state personnel leading from the front for successful liquidation of the marauding Naxals and Maosists, and to carry out developmental projects and implement welfare measures,” he said.
 
 “It’s a protracted lethal ideological war from their (LWEGs) side and no timeline can be set,” he said, adding “ however, at the same time, strict instructions have been issued that my uniformed jawan going on duty in most risky zones must return safely. The seniors must ensure this. Enough is enough.”
 
 Bhatnagar is agitated over the manner 25 of his jawans were massacred by Naxals in an ambush in Sukma of Chhattisgarh and does not want to lose a single a jawan any more . “My jawans are most precious treasure in the force, would commit ourselves best to protect them,” said the top cop of the CRPF, which is locked in a combat against LWEGs in over half a dozen states and over 25 districts.
 
 Bhatnagar, an officer of UP cadre, has hardly spent a fortnight in his new office but has already inspected three states hit by the Red terror -- Madhya Pradesh, Chattisgarh and Jharkhand. In his visit to Sukma, Bhatnagar rode pillion with a jawan into the most inaccessible and tortuous terrains to have a first-hand experience of “lack of development and penetration of welfare schemes, leading to ideological sway among gullible tribals and rural population.”
 
 During an hour long interview, the CRPF chief reiterated that the Sukma massacre had led to a new strategy while dealing with the LWEGs and first major decision was the shifting of an ADG-rank officer from Kolkata to Chattisgarh with instructions that the CRPF troops’ movement in combative operations must be supervised from headquarters and control rooms, and backed with every possible support -- technological, logistical and operational -- with a main emphasis on intelligence inputs.
 
 “At present, the most challenging task before the CRPF is providing security to the road construction work which is being challenged and thwarted by the Left groups, who do not want to allow us to build roads through which greater penetration of welfare programmes would be possible,” said the CRPF DG.
 
 “Our top priority in the days to come is to squeeze out the hiding Naxalas from their den at any cost,” he said, adding that that the coordinated efforts both from the Centre and the state has to be the key factor in this.
 
 
