AURANGABAD: Alleged irregularities in the recruitment at Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University (Bamu) during 2012-13 have returned to haunt state education (higher) director Dhanraj Mane. 

 State education minister Vinod   on Thursday said the former Bamu registrar would be suspended for his role in filling around 53 posts allegedly in violation of rules. 
 
 Mane served as Bamu registrar for over four years between December 20, 2011 and January 6, 2015 and in his capacity as administrative head was said to be at the helm of affairs related to recruitment, along with a few other authorities.
 
 Incidentally, the action against him came exactly a day after his probation period was over and orders were issued for his continuation of service on permanent basis on Wednesday. 
 
 After Subhash Sabne, Shiv Sena MLA from   in Nanded district, raised the issue of recruitment in the state assembly, a few other MLAs including Sanjay Shirsath of Shiv Sena ( ), Atul Save ( ) and   (Gangapur from Aurangabad district) took part in the debate, prompting Tawde to make the statement.
 
 Following mounting complaints against the alleged irregularities in Bamu recruitment, the state education department had formed a three-member committee led by joint director of education (higher) Vithhal More to probe into charges levelled against Mane. 
 
 More, while speaking with TOI on Thursday said that Bamu made certain delays in sharing key information and documents pertaining to recruitment in question. 
 
 As per Bamu records, recruitment for total 170 posts were advertised during the tenure of Mane, of which 127 posts were filled. The registrar was solely responsible for scrutiny of applications meant for non-teaching posts.
 
 "Despite sending repeated reminders, Bamu authorities did not share all desired documents and therefore, we had to prepare report case-by-case as per documents that were made available," More said.
 
 Speaking with TOI, MLA Atul Save said the recruitment in question carried out by Mane was in blatant violation of laid down norms. "Criteria pertaining to qualification, age and experience were not followed during the recruitment process. We are satisfied with the action as it would serve as strong deterrent in the field of education," he said.
 
 Shiv Sena MLA Shirsath, who was following the matter of the recruitment with the state government, said the More panel has held Mane guilty. 
 
 "The inquiry committee stumbled upon irregularities committed in recruitment at Bamu and clearly passed on the blame upon Mane. 
 
 The panel had also asked for recovery of dues from then Bamu registrar for money utilised towards issuing salary of recruited staff," he said. It may be noted that minister of state for education   had twice visited Bamu in connection with the charges levelled against Mane by Shirsath and others. 
 
 Tawde has also assured that a retired judge will investigate the alleged role of some higher education department officials, who allegedly tried to shield Mane, public representatives said.
 
 Mane, who is based at headquarters in Pune, could not be reached for his comments as his phone was switched off since the news of his suspension broke out. When contacted, Bamu vice-chancellor B A Chopade said he was unaware of the development related to action against Mane. 
 
