Nagpur: Since last 100 days, a 41-year-old wildlife lover is travelling across India on his bike to spread awareness about conservation of wild animals and forests. Having covered 30 states so far, he goes to every place and interacts with whoever he comes across.  Rathindra Nath Das from Kolkatta has set out on the journey owing to his unflinching love for nature. He plans to visit all 34 states, excluding Andaman & Nicobar and Lakshwadeep, in a span of 120 days. He was in the city on Sunday for the cause, which he calls ‘Save Forest, Save Wildlife.’ Every morning, he has a meaningful discussion over the tea with random people he meets at a tea stall. Later he visits schools during recess and enlightens children about protection of animals. “If a single kid protects animals and plants in the 10 square feet land around his house, then eventually the whole country can be covered,” Das said. Children are responding positively and are motivated to serve the cause, he added. He rides a patch of 300km daily. Since October 3, he has taken shelter in villages, police stations, forest guesthouses, footpaths and even lavish bungalows. He urges people to spread the word. ‘Each one, teach one’ is the key to outreach the vast population, added Das. He disproves of the negligent attitude towards jungles. “Tourists go for jungle safaris spraying fragrances which irritates the animals. People also kill snakes and other creepy crawlies which will ultimately disturbs the balance in nature,” he said. Das does not believe in the traditional way of delivering speeches and preaching. He finds informal interactions to be more natural and impactful.  In August, he plans to visit 13 countries including Bangladesh, Myanmar, Indonesia, Malaysia, China to raise awareness about saving tigers. “ Every country in the world has tigers in zoo but these 13 nations have them in natural habitat. China is involved in the wrong practice of using tiger’s flesh and bones to make medicines. This should be put to an end,” he said.