KOCHI: The much-celebrated city beautification programme initiated by Kochi corporation has met with a road block. The   ( ) has communicated their decision to back out from   beautification programme from March 1 and the local body is unable to work out a future course of action.

 “We don't get enough support from authorities. Our workers were being harassed by police. It is difficult for us to continue associating with the programme,“ said a KBBS representative.
 
 Though mayor Soumini Jain desperately tried to work out a solution to continue with the programme she did not succeed in her efforts.
 
 “The local body's engineers at Edappally have informed that the work has to come to a halt. However, we couldn't chalk plans to resume the work. We will have to discuss it in detail and decide on further course of action,“ said works standing committee chairman PM Harris.
 
 Meanwhile, other city beautification projects envisaged for the city are being implemented.The Kochi Metro Rail Ltd (KMRL) has started the process for beautifying  , which links the metro station at Maharaja's ground and Ernakulam boat jetty. Sanctions have been accorded to carry out beautification work on both sides of the road. “Contractors have started barricading works. The entire work will have to be completed within eight months,“ said KMRL spokesperson. The Rs 9 crore project includes wide footpath, green spaces, disabled-friendly walkways, and modern bus shelters.
 
 The Hospital Road walkway will have a roof over it; there will be bollards on the side to demarcate the walkway from the tarred road. A well maintained pedestrian corridor near to Maharaja's college station is expected to prompt commuters frequenting boat jetty, parks and general hospital to opt for non-motorized transport and metro.
 
 Three apartment complexes along Chathiath Road have been entrusted with its beautification and maintenance of this 1.8 km road. The apartments are responsible for planting and maintenance of plants. “Each complex has to take care of a 600 m reach. They use their CSR funds for it,“ said Hibi Eden MLA.
 
 He also said that an amount of Rs 14 lakh has been allocated from MLA fund for installing surveillance cameras on this stretch.The   has provided an amount of Rs 25 lakhs for installing street lights. “We want to keep this area well lit. It will be installed on the centre of the road, said Hibi adding that they also had plans to organise small scale musical programmes on the stage.
 
 Though the Ernakulam district tourism promotion council had planned to Rs 5 crore beautification project on Panampilly Nagar Road, it was confined to building of a footpath.   MLA said, “There were some issues regarding releasing of funds. The construction of footpath is over. However, an amount of Rs 1.56 crore has been provided for reconstructing the Avenue Road as per BM&BC standards.Tenders are yet to be invited for carrying out the work,“ he said.
 
