GAYA: Artificial scarcity of   created allegedly by the sand mafia has brought construction activity to a near standstill in the district.

 Following action against the sand mafia engaged in illegal mining and overloading, the sand mafia hit back by creating artificial scarcity on the alibi that sand stock has dwindled and river bed mining has been stopped.
 
 The crackdown on sand mafia was ordered by zonal IG Naiyyer Hasnain Khan following the production of video footages of large-scale malpractices. River bed mining stands banned for three months between July and September. Most of the sand mining in the district is done in Falgu and Morhar rivers.
 
 In view of the crisis-like situation created by the sand mafia, district magistrate (DM) Kumar Ravi, on Saturday held an extensive review meet on sand-related matters. The mining officials informed the DM that the ban on sand mining during the monsoon was being effectively implemented. The DM also directed the mining officials to seize machines and vehicles found engaged in river bed mining during the these three months.
 
 Mining officials also said that was no cause of worry as the sand stock is adequate. As on date, the sand stock available with licensed dealers was estimated to be 2.22 crore cubic feet, enough to load more than 55,700 10-wheeler trucks. The stock was far more than the requirement.
 
 At present, there are seven primary and 33 secondary sand stock points in the district. The officials have been directed to ensure effective compliance of the standard operating procedure in respect of sand-lifting and transportation. In order to prevent revenue loss on account of illegal transportation and black marketing, the DM asked the officials to ensure transportation with proper e-challans and submit daily report on sand availability and sand lifting in the district.
 
 The issue of indiscriminate stone mining and excessive use of dynamite by the lease holders also came up at the review meet. Several villagers have lodged complaints with the DM regarding the threat caused by dynamite explosion for stone mining and its impact on houses lying in the mining vicinity. The DM, while expressing concern over the reported malpractices of lease holders, directed the officials to ensure effective implementation of the rules.
 
 
