GURUGRAM: Five-hundred and twenty homebuyers who had invested in the Earth Copia project in Gurugram’s Sector 112 have been a harried lot as most of them have been waiting for over six years to get possession of their  . 

 Alka Arora, a senior citizen, invested all her family savings to book a flat in the Earth Infrastructure’s project with a hope to spend her twilight years comfortably with her family. But even after six years of booking the flat, Arora is still waiting for her dream house. 
 
 “My husband retired from a government job in Jammu. Till now, we have paid more than 90%,” said Arora adding that at the time of booking in 2011, the developer had promised to hand over the flat in 36 months.
 
 Sambhunath Ghosh, a homebuyer, had tears in his eyes while narrating his hardship. “We took a loan for the flat hoping to move into our own apartment and save on rent. But for the last seven years, I am paying both,” Ghosh said. 
 
 Dr Gurinder Singh, working with a government hospital, said, “The developer sold me a 14th floor flat. I later came to know that they had the approval only up to the 10th floor.” He added that the developer even signed a buyer-seller agreement for the promised flat. 
 
 Advocate Neeta Sinha, a homebuyer, who has been pursuing the case said, “I sent legal notices to the developer, complaint on the CM Window, filed a police complaint but no action was taken. Finally, I approached the   (AGRF) in September 2016.” She claimed that the construction at the site was halted for two years and started only after a direction from the AGRF. 
 
 In pursuance of AGRF direction, assistant town planner (ATP) RS Batth inspected the site on Wednesday and directed the developer to submit a detailed timeline for completion of the project by February 13. A representative of developer said they have infused around Rs 4 crore in the last few months to speed up the work. “We are trying to complete the work at the earliest possible,” he said. 
 
 Earth Copia, a project of   was launched in 2011. Spread over 12 acres of land, the project has 10 towers with 520 units. The average cost of a flat is Rs 1 crore.
 
 
