Chennai: Even as gen-next successfully runs some of biggest names in Motown, this week the third generation of the Mammen family took over the reigns at tyre giant MRF. Rahul Mammen Mappillai, 39, — the eldest son of chairman K M Mammen and director Ambika Mammen, and grandson of the legendary K M Mammen Mappillai — took over as the new MD of the company. The tyre manufacturer is currently facing headwinds with margin pressure and rising raw material costs leading to a 32% dip in Q4 net profit to Rs 286.77 crore. 

 Current MD Arun Mammen, brother of KM Mammen, has been reappointed vice chairman and MD. The new MD has already had a nearly 14-year stint in various important roles in the company. He joined the company’s board as whole time director seven years ago when he was vice-president, corporate planning and development. Before that he worked in various departments of the company including project execution, production, finance and planning. 
 
 As VP corporate planning, Rahul was in charge of devising long-term strategy for MRF and also put in place a performance management system. He was in charge of corporate planning and review, implementation of Total Productive Maintenance (TPM) initiatives at the company’s manufacturing sites and executed a number of critical projects for MRF including overall automation and upgradation of facilities. Rahul joined MRF in 2003 as corporate manager — planning & development, subsequently promoted to GM — planning & development in 2005. Later he became VP — planning & development in 2008. An Honours grad from Delhi’s St Stephen’s College, he majored in Economics and completed an MA from University of Madras. He went on to get an MBA from the University of Michigan Business School (Ann Arbor). He is the latest in a long line of Motown scions to take over the reigns of the family business. In the 2000s, it was Siddhartha Lal and Rajiv Bajaj who took over Eicher and Bajaj Auto respectively. More recently, Sudarshan Venu has been successfully handling TVS Motor.
 
 
