 Panaji: The   Federation of India’s silence over the fourth season of United Basketball Alliance’s Pro Basketball League has come as a huge relief for some of India’s best-known basketball players.
  
  India regulars, and big names, like Amjyot Singh,  , Vishesh Bhriguvanshi and Palpreet Brar, sat out of the first three editions of the high-profile league started two years ago. But the fourth edition has seen all of these names, and more, join hands with the UBA to present Indian basketball like never before.
  
  “This is for the first time that such a basketball league is being organised in the country. For the last edition, the BFI said players who take part would be suspended but they didn’t say anything like that now,” said Vishesh Bhriguvanshi, India's most talented guard and one of the best shooting guards in Asia.
  
  Vishesh, who dons colours for Bengaluru Beast in the Pro Basketball League, was handpicked as the Most Valuable Indian Player ahead of the semifinals in Goa, and he seemed to be delighted to be part of the league in an avatar that India has never seen before.
  
  “There are major attractions to play in the league. Of course, there is the monetary factor but more importantly, we get to play alongside international players. The whole world is watching us (on television) and the entire experience would make us much better players,” said Vishesh.
  
  Despite the presence of several high-calibre foreign players and coaches, the league lost some of its sting for the first three editions but is now chugging along nicely.
  
  “We definitely have made the most stride this season,” said Michael Yanke, Chief Marketing Officer for the UBA.
  
  “We don’t have anything worked out with the BFI. We just had open trials and all the players who showed up, and were available, are here with us. I don’t see these players being suspended. We are here to support the players and Indian basketball,” he said.
  
  The Pro Basketball League has eight teams based in key cities across India, with the top teams in each division – North and South – earning a semifinal berth and the second and third team in each division playing an extra play-in game to make it to the last-four stage.
  
  This season, Mumbai Challengers and Pune Peshwas topped their respective divisions during the qualifiers in Chennai, while in the play-in games, Punjab Steelers got the better of Delhi Capitals and Bengaluru Beast displaced Hyderabad Sky.
  
  The best-of-three semifinals will be played at the Shyama Prasad Mukherjee Indoor Stadium at Taleigao starting Friday.
  
  
  
  STARS TO WATCH OUT FOR
  
  Mumbai Challengers: Alex Scales (former NBA), Jagdeep Bains (India star), Jimmy Scroggins (USA College player).
  
  Punjab Steelers: Dermaine Cockrell (USA College player), Garry Gill (Former India U-18 captain).
  
  Pune Peshwas: Amritpal Singh (India captain), Pierre Newton (USA College player), Pierre Newton (USA College player).
  
  Bengaluru Beast: Vishesh Bhriguvanshi (India captain), Chris Solomon (USA College player), Palpreet Brar (only Indian drafted in NBA D-League).
