BHUBANESWAR:   president and chief minister   on Sunday disapproved the newspaper articles written by Bhartruhari  , party’s leader in Lok Sabha.

 “If senior(BJD) people have anything negative to say, they should come to me with their complaints and not go to media,” Naveen told reporters here at the party headquarters after an interaction session with the newly elected panchayat representatives.
 
 The chief minister did not comment anything when asked whether he would seek any explanation from the Cuttack MP (Mahtab), who wrote a second article on Sunday, taking a dig at senior party colleagues like Surya Narayan Patro and Damodar Rout for misunderstanding his previous article. 
 
 In the recent article, he clarified that the objective is to clarify things as certain television channels tried to amplify the article published on April 23. 
 
 On panchayat election results, Mahtab clarified, “BJD has not done poorly in   as being propagated by the BJP. The BJP gained in the recent rural poll due to loss of Congress votes. But it has to be admitted that the ruling party has lost 3 per cent vote in the recent poll as compared to the 2014 general elections.”
 
 The Cuttack MP also opined that the BJD spokespersons should not expose party’s weaknesses by responding to even local BJP leaders.
 
 “I have not joined politics to amass wealth or to please any one. I am trying my best to discharge my duty assigned by BJD president Naveen Patnaik. I am ready to relinquish if he does not like my duty,” Mahtab said in his article.
 
 The recent article by Mahtab has not gone down well among the BJD leaders as many of them came down heavily on the Cuttack MP.
 
 Barabati-Cuttack MLA,   said, “If he is so serious about the party affairs, has he ever reviewed the panchayat poll results of his constituency. Has he visited the Badamba and Narasinghpur areas, where the party has lost in the zila parishad election? Instead of making such statements in media, he should be with the party.”
 
 Reacting to Mahtab’s newspaper article, BJD vice president Surya Narayan Patro the party president has taken it seriously and it is up to him whether he would take any disciplinary action against him. 
 
 In November, last year, the BJD president had sought explanation from Mahtab for his statement suggesting BJD should team up with Congress for benefit of Odisha.
 
 Mahtab could not be contacted for further reaction as he is travelling abroad.
 
