Nagpur: The   poaching racket is getting murkier with the arrested fishermen revealing killing of fourth tiger on the fringes of the sanctuary.

 TOI on July 4 reported at least five Pench tigers had been poached inside and outside the tiger reserve. 
 
 Till now six persons have been arrested since June 27 when the racket was first exposed. Forest custody remand (FCR) of one accused Devidas Kumre of Usripaar has been extended till July 10. FCR of four others — Chunnu alias SP Sariyam, HG Kunjam, both residents of Garra, Mukesh Uike of Shirepani in Chhindwara and Ramdas Warkhade of Kolitmara in West Pench — has been extended till July 13. Another accused Babulal Kumre of Usripaar has been granted 15 days magisterial custody (MCR).
 
 Till now the accused had revealed poaching of three tigers. One was killed inside Pench near Golpahadi area while two others were killed in territorial areas of Deolapar range. Now accused Chunnu and others have confessed to killing one more tiger in Bandra forest area. They said this was poached in 2013. All three tigers in territorial areas of Nagpur division were electrocuted.
 
 “These are not the cases of accidental electrocution through wires set up to save crops from herbivores but a deliberate attempt by fishermen to poach tigers,” said sources.
 
 On Thursday, a big tiger bone was seized from Chunnu’s house in Garra. Officials also seized set of electric wires used in the crime. The accused seem to be professionals and are trying to mislead the forest officials by showing spots where they buried the carcass and then reverting on their statement.
 
 After one in 2013, another tiger was killed in 2014 while two were killed in 2016-17. As tiger population in Pench increased, these fishermen found big money in targeting dispersing tigers. “This only shows the poor level of protection in and around even a high-profile parks, especially when crores are being spent on community development. Nagpur division officials are yet to wake up,” said a senior official.
 
 Pench officials are trying to see if current accused are linked to 2013 cases wherein at least 25 tigers were feared poached in Vidarbha region.
 
 
