BELAGAVI:   ( ) has announced 10%   in   on   in the city. 

 The decision has been taken to encourage structures that are not harmful to the environment, said Ratan Masekar, chairman of the standing committee for taxation, finance and appeals, presenting the annual budget 2017-18 of the BCC here on Tuesday. Similarly, 10% discount has been announced for freedom fighters in property tax.
 
 Showing Rs 34,242.41 lakh receipts and Rs 34,214.42 lakh total expenditure, Masekar presented a surplus budget of Rs 27.99 lakh. Henceforth, approved map will be mandatory for the properties above 4,000 sqft area. The decision has come up to stop false calculation of properties to avoid tax. 
 
 It has been decided to re-survey the properties in city. Masekar said the resurvey of properties and 15% hike in tax is expected to reach out the property tax target of Rs 35 crore. Property tax will be completely computerised and digitized challans will be issued from 2017-18.
 
 Masekar expected Rs 30 crore capital income out of sale of residential plots available in Malmaruti extension. Income of Rs 1.10 lakh is expected from trade licence fees and Rs 33.10 lakh from administrative charges and parking fee. Over Rs 1 crore income is derived from recovery of advertisement tax from hoardings, kiosks boards, cantilever, gantries, banners, cutouts and bus shelters. After re-survey, it has been proposed to collect 30% additional tax.
 
 Masekar has earmarked Rs 26 crore for maintenance of sanitation work, giving top priority to make Belagavi a clean city. The BCC has announced constructing an annex building adjacent to the existing city corporation building by spending Rs 50 crore from its own sources. The authority has planned to provide pushcarts to roadside vendors by spending Rs 1 crore. 
 
 For beautification of circles and new gardens Rs 2 crore has been earmarked. It will also construct pay and use public toilets at various places of the city spending Rs 1 crore. Besides this, Rs 50 lakh has been earmarked for computerization of BCC documents, in order to maintain their safety.
 
 Mixed reaction
 
 The budget evoked mixed response from councillors. The ruling group members appreciated the budget and said that it is an ideal and balanced budget while the members from the opposition said that there is nothing new and innovative in the budget. The development works announced in the last year have not been implemented, complained Deepak Jamkhandi.
 
 There are about 440 commercial outlets of the BCC while 120 properties are given on lease basis. 
 
 Yet many properties are to be developed from which BCC can earn revenue. But revenue officials have not even prepared a DPR for the construction of commercial complex at Kalamandir, Azam Nagar, Mahantesh Nagar and Vadgaon, said Jamkhandi. 
 
 Mayor Sarita Patil agreed that some works were not completed in the previous year. Hence a council meeting and lease committee meeting will be held on February 13 or 14 to discuss about generating revenue from the BCC properties, she said.
 
 
