PATIALA:   (BBMB) is likely to postpone or altogether skip an inspection that is vital to understand the condition of  .

 Experts in the field said the dam's low-level inspection, last carried out in 1979, is a must because the 53-year-old structure had remained under water for nearly half a century and an evaluation of its deterioration would have helped in taking timely action in case it required repairs. Sources claimed the exercise could be put off because the BBMB's technical committee, which is responsible for deciding on such matters, did not discuss the controlled depletion of water from the reservoir of the dam for the inspection, in its monthly meetings.
 
 The BBMB had decided to carry out inspection nearly two years ago. Last year, water levels in the dam were brought down to 1,440 feet, which is the minimum draw down, but the inspection was deferred after objections from partner states Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan.
 
 This year, the current water level in the dam is 1,524 feet. If the inspection has to be carried out, the water level should be brought down to 1,470 feet, sources in BBMB said.
 
 In 2015, the board had decided to deplete waters in   and   reservoirs for inspection in April 2016. The inspection of the dam required bringing the level of the Bhakra Dam reservoir to its dead-storage level against the maximum storage capacity of 1,680 feet so that the experts could check the condition of the trash racks, penstocks, river outlets and submerged installations.
 
 Sources said low-level inspection of the dam should have been carried out in a planned manner starting from October 2016, so as to reach a target level of 1,462 feet around middle of this April.
 
 Sources said as snow on mountains starts to melt, inflows into the dam pick up and make low-level inspections impossible Bhakra Dam chief engineer Sanjeev Suri could not be contacted for comment despite repeated attempts 
 
 The board does not have a chairman, as the last extension given to member (irrigation) S K Sharma, who was holding additional charge since October 2015, ended on March 23.The board does not have a chairman, as the last extension given to member (irrigation) S K Sharma, who was holding additional charge since October 2015, ended on March 23. BBMB chairman presides over the meetings of the TC, where a decision in that regard is to taken. With no chairman, there is uncertainty over holding of the TC meeting which was to be held at the end of April.
 
 
 
 
 Padamjit Singh, chief patron   (AIPEF), who spent five years of his service in BBMB, said the authorities had already got the low-level inspection of the   conducted last year, but it was being kept pending in case of Bhakra Dam, which was unexplainable. He said there had been lapses in the planning and execution as BBMB was being run by an ad hoc chairman for the last two years. He said the only positive step that could be taken was that the low-level inspection be carried out next year in April after proper planning, which should start from October this year. He said when the level of water is to be brought down in Bhakra, the authorities need to raise the same in Pong and Thein dams so that Punjab does not fall short of water for irrigation purposes during the sowing season. 
 
