MUMBAI: A 22-year-old Mulund woman’s   on how a flasher exposed himself to her when she was on a Churchgate-bound train last month has gone viral, and not for the man’s act alone. The woman, currently a post-graduate sociology student in Bengaluru, has claimed that when she called up the railway helpline from the train, the railway cop who took her call laughed at her on hearing the nature of her complaint and hung up.

 The woman, who alleged that the flasher had also threatened to rape her, stated in her post that the incident occurred on June 15. She wrote about her ordeal on the social networking site on Thursday.
 
 Deputy commissioner of police (WR) Purushottam Karad said they are verifying the matter and are going through the complainant’s call records to identify what exactly was done when the call came. 
 
 “We have to check which helpline the woman commuter made the call to. There are two helpline numbers—one is railway police and the other is   (RPF). We will talk to the woman,” said Karad.
 
 According to the post, the incident occurred after the woman boarded the train from Borivli around 2pm. The woman said she was sitting in the ladies compartment that is adjacent to the handicapped person’s coach. “I was supposed to get down at Dadar station to go to my house in Mulund after meeting some friends,” the woman told TOI.
 
 “I was in the ladies compartment and there were about six other women. I sat on the side that can see the handicapped section, but with railings in between. On my left, there was another girl. We both were listening to music. In the handicapped section there was the pervert who put his hands through and has (sic) reached half the distance to the girl's face. I cannot hear him as I was wearing headphones. I reduce the music, out of curiosity and also to see whether she needs help, I do not turn. Looking down at my phone, I hear him calling her m*******d. I heard it at least 6 times in the 30 seconds I listened. I looked at him, our eyes met and I looked down again (sic),” read her post.
 
 She further stated that he then went to her side of the compartment and did the same thing. While the man went on abusing her, she said he flashed at her and began masturbating. She then said she asked her co-passengers for the railway helpline, but even before she could dial the number, the train pulled in at Kandivli station and the man got off, only to enter the ladies compartment. He then threatened to rape her, claimed the woman, who had come to her hometown Mumbai last month for a three-week internship.
 
 
