JALANDHAR: District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum,  , has ordered Ministry of Railways and Northern Railways to pay compensation of Rs 25,000 to a local resident who had sued the railways alleging that he got cervical spondylosis due to strong jerks in the “premium coach” of Delhi to Amritsar Shatabadi train when he travelled in it in February 2015.

 District Forum President Karnail Singh and member   in their order on September 20 held that deficiency in service on part of the Railways was clearly established as the heavy jerks in the train were also established from the complaints filed by the different persons (in the complaint register of the train) who were not even known to the complainant.
 
 Local resident   in his complaint filed in April 2015 had mentioned that the perusal of the complaint register available in the train also revealed that several passengers had earlier written their complaints in it but no remedial measures had apparently been taken.
 
 Raman Dutt, a local resident, in his complaint mentioned that he had earlier travelled from September 7, 2012, from Delhi to Jalandhar in the Executive Class coach and experienced the strong jerks which were having impact on the back and neck. He mentioned that he lodged a complaint in the complaint register being carried by the   and mentioned that there appeared some fault in the coach and such strong jerks were having adverse impact in the back bone and could lead to serious problems.
 
 While travelling in the same train from Delhi to Jalandhar in the same class on February 17, 2015 he again had that experience of severe jerks which caused pain in his body neck and low back. Other passengers also expressed their discomfort even as they had paid almost double fare than the   chair car of the Shatabadi. He again lodged a complaint in the complaint register and found that earlier also passengers had lodged the complaints.
 
 After his return he had to see a doctor and was diagnosed with cervical spondylitis. Alleging that he suffered this problem due to the jerking experience in the train travel he had claimed damages, compensation, litigation fee, his expenses on the treatment etc totalling Rs 1.55 lakhs from Railways. Secretary Railways, Northern Railways and Jalandhar Station Superintendent were respondents in the complaint.
 
  “From overall circumstances it is established that OP (opposite party – Railways) has not provided peaceful easy travelling services in the Shatabadi train to the complainant and other passengers ans as such the complainant is entitled the partly relief as claimed in the complaint,” The Forum said while ordering to pay Railways compensation of Rs 20,000 to him and litigation expenses of Rs 5,000 to Dutt.
 
