NASHIK: The farmers from Devargaon village, located along the backwaters of  , have threatened to launch an agitation if their demands of employment and rehabilitation are not met before the release of water from the dam. 

 Water from the Kashyapi dam is released towards Gangapur dam, which is a major course of supply for   (NMC). For the past two decades, farmers who gave up their land for the construction of the Kashyapi dam are awaiting proper rehabilitation.
 
 During the last agitation in August 2016, district guardian minister   had assured to resolve the matter, but the things have not moved forward. The farmers had taken a plunge into the dam as a mark of protest and were rescued by the administration. Mahajan had then assured to look into the matter but without much progress. Mahajan was not reachable for his comment. 
 
 “We are now fed up of meeting the collector and officials from the civic body, the   and the state government. This time, we plan to plunge into the flowing water of the dam along with our families if no decision is taken by the government. This is a final call,” said Lakshman Monde, resident of Devargaon and project affected farmer.
 
 The farmers have informed the Hasul police station about their planned agitation. Balasaheb Sanap, city unit president of the  , said they had facilitated the meetings of farmers with the minister and the WRD officials in Mantralay.
 
 “There were several rounds of talks. We, however, could make little progress because of the appointment of a new commissioner for NMC and the civic elections. We will again follow up the matter with the commissioner,” Sanap said. 
 
 About 630 acres were acquired for construction of Kashyapi dam, which was to be financed by the NMC and constructed by the water resources department (WRD). The NMC and WRD had entered into agreement for construction of the dam, but the NMC allegedly pulled out of the agreement, the farmers claimed. 
 
 The NMC also had reportedly pledged to absorb project affected persons into service. It did so in case of only 23 tribals from the village, while the remaining 37 are yet to be employed. Both departments keep passing the buck when the farmers met them. The departments produce drafts of agreement between them in which employment is promised. But the draft is invalid for it does not bear signatures, farmers claimed. 
 
 “How can a government work without signatures? Two decades on, the NMC is using water and earning revenue from the same. The WRD is also earning revenue from the NMC. Then why don’t they fulfil the promises made to us?” said Ramesh Monde, another resident of the village. 
 
 The Kashyapi is part of Gangapur dam complex which has a total capacity of 9,350 million cubic feet (mcft). Kashyapi dam contributes 1,852 mcft to the total storage. Industry uses 1,200 mcft water, NMC about 4,500 mcft and 2,700 mcft is used for agriculture from Gangapur dam complex.
 
 A WRD official said that talks were on with the state government and the municipal corporation regarding their demands. “The talks are on and expected to reach a conclusive decision soon,” the official said, adding that the farmers were being informed about the same. 
 
