NAGPUR: Garments made from bamboo fabric that feel superior than linen or finest cottons are being manufactured in the city by woman entrepreneur Sujata Kaswa.

 Sujata plans to sell them online through an online portal that she is planning to launch in   next month. She presented shirts made from bamboo fabric to Union transport and water resources minister  , forest minister Sudhir Mungantiwar and mayor Nanda Jichkar during a function to celebrate World Bamboo Day at Chitnavis Center on Saturday. The garments put on display at venue enthralled all with their superior feel and great looks. 
 
 During the function, Gadkari exhorted industrialists from Vidarbha to join the bamboo promotion movement and help realize its true value. "Bamboo has potential to transform socio-economic profile of Vidarbha and replace the poverty with prosperity," he said.
 
 Gadkari announced that a bio-CNG plant using bamboo as raw material is coming up at   in Bhandara. "There is scope for 50 such plants, at a cost of Rs15 crore each, in Vidarbha. Bio-CNG, if used in tractors, can save a farmer Rs 25000 a year on fuel," Gadkari said. A bio-CNG refill station was already working in Pune.
 
 "The wonder grass — bamboo — can be the ideal weapon in the fight against poverty that the United Nations has launched," said Mungatiwar. He said the removal of transport regime for bamboo in Maharashtra was the first step initiated by him to realize the immense commercial potential of bamboo.
 
 Dr Bharti, a Hosur-based bamboo technologist who developed through tissue culture bamboo variety named Beema, made a presentation on the topic — Bamboo, the future crop of agro-industry. Though India is world’s second largest producer, it largely remains a neglected material, he lamented. He urged Gadkari to give it a big push at the national level through policy initiatives. 
 
 "Time has come for converting it into crop.   should be encouraged to undertake plantation because it acts as major carbon sink. A hectare of bamboo plantation absorbs 400kg of Carbon dioxide and releases 350kg of Oxygen," said Dr Bharti. 
 
 From green power, green and affordable housing, it can be used for making 1500 products but sadly very less is being done in the country. In contrast, China has taken rapid strides in last 20 years and used bamboo to provide jobs to 50 lakh people and earned through exports, he added.
 
  of Bamboo Society of India (Maharashtra chapter), who organized the event along with Neelam Manjunath, a Bangalore-based architect promoting bamboo as construction material for last three decades, said use of bamboo could help realize prime minister’s housing for all project. Her book ‘Symphony of bamboo’ was released by Gadkari on the occasion.
 
