PUNE: Twenty-one months after the state government banned consumption of beef, the demand for   has gone up in the city.
Most non-vegeterians have started consuming more of this red meat as they have little choice and it is available for Rs 160 per kg in the local market, whereas mutton in around Rs 400 per kg.  , state president of All-India  , said though the demand for buffalo meat has gone up, people find beef tastier and have qualms about buffalo meat.
 
 The Qureshi community is into livestock trade in markets, transport of animals, slaughter of animals, selling meat, hides, leather and export of meat and leather garments.
 
 However, Qureshi said, 50% of traders in the state, including Pune, have closed businesses because it has become difficult to sell a single buffalo. They have switched to selling other commodities and taken to small jobs while their staff work as labourers for a living.
 
 Hotelier Hasan Qureshi said buffalo meat has slowly picked up and customers were ordering it because they have no option. Another hotelier   said, A few big eateries are importing buffalo meat in small quantities.“ Patron   said, “Goat meat is available for Rs 420 per kilo, while buffalo meat is available for Rs 160. I prefer eating it because it is cheap and tasty.“
 
 Qureshi said they were conducting business legally , but anti-social elements and orgnanizations create trouble for them. “They intercept vehicles ferrying buffaloes and transporting waste material and assault the drivers. The HC has allowed us to bring buffalo meat from Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat, but our vehicles are stopped here and handed over to the police on suspicion that the meat belongs to cows or bullocks. We have stopped importing beef because there is no support from the government or police.“
 
 The association's Pune president Anis Qureshi said around two months ago, the high court refused permission to slaughter animals which are 15 years old. “Police, at the behest of disruptive elements, are seizing our goods, but it is not showing us the report of forensic science laboratory and filing alse cases against us and are telling us to seek justice from courts,“ he added.
 
 The state government should generate awareness that buffalo meat does not have any side effects. “There are complaints from hotels that police are seizing cooked beef from them on mere suspicion. Thousands of buffaloes have been seized.Some were released after a court order, but many were stolen or they disappeared or were sold illegally ,“ he said.
 
