AGRA: Even after a week, police failed to arrest the   who attempted to   in Agra, while she was heading to a temple along with her brother on July 4 afternoon.

 The second-year B Com student had written a letter to   seeking protection and action against the molesters, adding, else she would leave the state along with her family. The letter was written after an FIR was lodged against the five molesters identified as Suraj, Rohit, Jaiprakash, Jitu and Gunda, who are neighbours of the victim.
 
 Speaking to TOI, superintendent of police Agra city Kunwar Anupam Singh said, "Our teams are working to nab the accused booked in the FIR filed by the victim."
 
 According to the victim, "On Tuesday afternoon, the gang of boys passed lewd comments on me while I was heading to a temple along with my younger brother. The molesters attacked us when we confronted them. They had been stalking me for the last couple of months. It was difficult for me to continue with my studies as I was not able to attend my college."
 
 "The molesters tore my clothes and also assaulted my father when he came to rescue us," she said.
 
 Further, she claimed that, "On Sunday late night few youths knocked at our home doors and threatened to take revenge after they get bail in the case. Since it was dark, I couldn't see their faces."
 
 According to the victim's father, "Two of the molesters are party workers of a right wing and their uncle is a local leader from saffron party. We will leave the state if the police failed to take any action against the accused youths."
 
 BJP Agra city spokesperson Bobby Verma said, "At present, we cannot comment on the case, but yes an uncle of two of the accused booked in the case is former councilor from Tajganj and party leader."
 
 Another BJP source confirmed that accused Jitu and Rohit are BJP party workers and their uncle is Soharam Rathor, a BJP leader.
 
 Police have booked the accused under sections 147 (Punishment for rioting), 354 B (Assault or use of criminal force to woman with intent to disrobe), 323 (Punishment for voluntarily causing hurt) and 504 (Intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) of the IPC.
 
