CHENNAI: The war games begin on Thursday, but before they set sail for their  ,   from the US have had their day out in Chennai. They hired a fleet of luxury buses and went on a city tour.

 More than 4,500 personnel arrived in batches since Monday at popular shopping destinations in the city — Express Avenue, Phoenix Mall and T Nagar. While many stuck to the routine and waited for the shuttle buses to ferry them back to the port, a few others hired taxis or walked around to explore more.
 
 Fireman controlmen (second class surface) Daniel Taylor of   has bought a sapphire necklace for his wife and a cashmere rug for his house from an arts emporium on Anna Salai. “I visited the Express Mall, Rain Tree Hotel on St Marys and Anna Salai, Cottage Arts Emporium, and Leela Palace Hotel. The weather was perfect. My friend and I spent quite a bit of time walking and since we had brought plenty of water we managed pretty well,” he said.
 
 But before the outing, the American sailors took part in a friendly basketball match with students at YMCA which they lost 36-35.
 
 Reaching the shores after many months at sea, food, liquor and clothes interested the visiting sailors the most. Most of them could be seen trying out the food. A sailor who walked out of a mall for a smoke before going inside for coffee said, “It is hot but I am enjoying the outing. I tried out the food.” While the men were found eating at multinational outlets, a few female personnel bought rice and curry from a local one. 
 
 More than 35 navy personnel queued up before the only ATM machine working at the Express Avenue mall. The elite Tasmac outlet there hit a goldmine. “The navy personnel were the only customers we got after we opened at 12pm,” said a staff. Many showed interest in buying Indian brands. One sailor picked up a bottle of Jack Daniels’ but settled for the cheaper Signature as his friends bought crate loads of Kingfisher beer.
 
 “It is one of the most interesting places I have ever been to and one of the most memorable because it was my birthday. The people have been helpful and welcoming. I can’t wait to visit the temples, take pictures and immerse myself again in such a culturally rich place,” Taylor said. 
 
 Autorickshaw drivers and trinket sellers trying to peddle small drums and snake idols accosted them at the gate of a mall while agents came up with sightseeing packages. But the sailors seemed to be well-briefed about the ‘risks’ they may face on land. “Rs50,” said a sailor when a hawker asked Rs 2,000 for a small drum.
 
 Police posted plainsclothes personnel to ensure that the sailors did not get cheated. “I told the sailors to be careful and warned cab drivers not to cheat them,” a policeman said.
 
 And the outing went on till late. Some sailors were spotted outside the mall past 12am on Monday waiting for their shuttle bus to arrive. Adam, part of the group, said, “I am visiting the city for the first time. I am part of the security service so I am here to ensure that all of them get into the bus.”
 
 Around 7,000 US navy personnel will take part in  . The Nimitz aircraft carrier has not docked at the port but personnel from the ship are being ferried into the port using boats. More people are expected to come into the city in the coming days as they have shore classes and exercises till July 13 when all the ships will sail out to the sea for the war games. 
 
 But in all this the Tamil Nadu Tourism seems to be sitting idle with no initiative taken to make the most of the opportunity. “They are largely security personnel. We are not doing anything with the navy,” said an official of the department.
 
