BATHINDA: After four days of his suicide, body of farmer   of Lehra Bega village in Bathinda still lies in the freezer. His villagers await justice for him and the arrest of patwari Jagjit Singh and his associates, who they hold responsible behind Jaswant’s suicide on May 10. The police on Sunday tried to persuade the bereaved family to cremate the body but the farm organisation Bharatiya Kisan Union Ekta Ugrahan dismantled their efforts. Police resorted to the use of force to stop the farmers from holding further protestations. 

 Jaswant Singh (70) was despaired over not getting compensation for his land acquired by the state government for the construction of a grain market at Sema village in Bathinda. He committed suicide on May 10 outside revenue office of Sema village by consuming poison. A suicide note was recovered from his pocket wherein he had accused patwari Jagjit Singh of forwarding his compensation of 22 marla land to some other person. Apart from the patwari, the farmer had also named his associates Tarlochan Singh and Raj Singh, who pocketed the compensation.
 
 Jaswant’ son Gurdeep Singh said, “The patwari had duped us by giving our compensatory money of nearly Rs. 2 lakh to one Raj Singh. We want the patwari to be arrested and only then will the body be cremated.”
 
 BKU Ugrahan district president   expressing his concern and support to the cause said, “We are with the family and will not cremate the body till the patwari is arrested and will resist every move of police. If police will not arrest Patwari by Monday, we will intensify the protest”. 
 
  MLA   had visited the family on Saturday and made futile attempts to persuade them to carry forth with the last rites.
 
  said, “Police is making efforts to arrest the patwari and searches are being conducted as the case for abetment of suicide has already been registered against the patwari.” However, he refuted all allegations of having used power against farmers, who have been adamant to not cremate the body. 
 
 
