SANGLI/MIRAJ: Barring a single hospital, all other 29 clinical establishments in   village are unregistered and have been running illegally for last many years. 

 Besides, a majority of the 306 clinical establishments in the rural parts of  , which also includes Mhaisal village, are also  .
 
 This was revealed by a member of the patient welfare committee at the Mhaisal primary health centre (PHC) on Wednesday. Among the illegal clinical establishments in Mhaisal, 25 are   while the four are  . 
 
 Surprisingly, the Mhaisal PHC is just a walking distance from homeopath Babasaheb Khidrapure’s hospital. Khidrapure has been arrested in the abortion racket of Sangli.
 
 Ashok Wadar, a member of the patient welfare committee at the state-run PHC in Mhaisal village, said, “We knew about this (illegal clinical establishments) for many years. The staff at the PHC conducts audit of these clinics and hospital every year. And the report is given to higher authorities, including taluka health officer (THO) and district health officer (DHO), every year. We don’t know why they have’n initiated any action against these clinics and hospitals all these years.”
 
 When contacted, V P Sawant, taluka health officer, Miraj, said, “Among the 306 clinical establishments in rural parts of Miraj taluka, most are only clinics and dispensaries. And only 15 are hospitals or nursing homes. Among these 15, eight hospitals have the   as per the Bombay Nursing Home Act while remaining seven are running without the registration.” 
 
 Bhupal Girigosavi, additional district health officer of Sangli district, said, “We are going to initiate mass surveillance of all the clinical establishments in Sangli district from tomorrow (March 9). We will also issue show-cause notices to those running without mandatory registrations.” 
 
 Nana Kamble, a social activist from Mhaisal, said, “Since medical officers of the state-run primary health centres have no power to initiate action against unregistered hospital or clinics and sonography centres, they are helpless. Despite being informed, the DHO has not taken any action against any of these hospitals or clinics. That simply means that he is responsible for all the clinical establishments running illegally in Mhaisal and should be punished.”
 
 DHO Ramchandra Hankare said, “As per the Bombay Nursing Home Act, nursing home owners should furnish documents for seeking registration, based on which I can either issue or cancel their registrations. But none of the hospitals in Mhaisal have applied for any registration.” 
 
 Meanwhile, a ten-day drive to identify illegal hospitals will kickstart in Sangli district from March 9. 
 
