NEW DELHI: The cutoffs in DU’s third list, as expected, have fallen by 2-3 percentage points in most colleges. But SGTB   has brought it down drastically — in one case even by 23.5 percentage points. 

 Several other colleges, after a series of withdrawals, opened up courses on Thursday following their closure in the second list.
 
 After seeing few admissions in the general category from the first two lists, SGBT Khalsa put the   for BSc electronics, which was 99.66% in the first list, at a more reasonable 93.66%. However, the most drastic dip came in Punjabi, falling to 70% in the third list from 93.5% in the second list. 
 
 SGBT Khalsa, one of the North Campus colleges to come out with very high cutoffs in the first two lists, saw very few admissions, that too in minority categories. The dip in vernaculars is the sharpest in the third list. Besides Punjabi, the Hindi cutoff fell from 94% in the second list to 82.75%.
 
 As per the trend every year, though some courses that close in the first list open up for admissions after the second list because of withdrawals, those closing in the second and third lists rarely open unless there is a drastic fall in cutoffs facilitating transfers.
 
 In Miranda House, the dip is marginal, of up to 1 percentage point, as admissions to popular honours courses like economics, philosophy and sociology have been closed. 
 
 The courses open at Lady Shri Ram College include economics, English, journalism, psychology and political science. The cutoff for psychology has fallen only by 0.25% points in the third list, indicating that only few seats in this course are up for grabs at the college.
 
 Kirori Mal College, on the other hand, opened its English course at 95%, after closing it in the second list at 96%, as it saw a number of withdrawals, specially girls moving to Miranda House after a marginal dip in percentage. It has closed down admissions to botany and statistics courses. Urdu and Sanskrit have been closed since the first list.
 
 At Hindu College, most courses are not available. These courses include physics, chemistry, botany, zoology, BA Programme, Sanskrit, political science and history. 
 
 With most top-rung colleges closing admissions to most of their courses after the second cutoff list, the shifting among colleges is expected to be less as the crowd moves towards mid-level colleges for final admissions. For example, though Bhagini Nivedita College has closed admissions to history, BCom and physical sciences, it is expected to open up for admissions against cancellation. The admissions under the third list will start on Friday, and continue till Monday. 
 
 
