Mysuru: Mysore Urban Development Authority (Muda) wants to become first government office in the state to have a grid connected rooftop solar system. Under this scheme,   is planning to generate 75 kilowatts of  .

 As per the proposal, Muda is planning to install this system at an estimated cost of Rs. 56.25 lakhs.
 
 Speaking to TOI, G S Suresh, Executive Engineer Electrical, Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) and the nodal officer for the implementation of the project, said that his office has issued a second tender inviting interested service providers. "No company came forward to implement this project when tender was floated for the first time few months back. Now we have issued a second tender," he said.
 
 "This grid connected rooftop solar system expected to make Muda self-reliant when it comes to powering its offices located across the city. It’s also expected to help Muda sell power, as it is grid connected system,' said an officer from Muda who wished to be unnamed.
 
 "There is huge potential for the solar power generation in the city. Once government offices start installing rooftop solar systems, it will encourage the general public too," he said.
 
 According to Chamundeshwari Electricity Supply Corporation Limited (Cescom) officials, several public sector undertakings located in the city have already installed grid connected rooftop solar systems. "Recently BEML operationalised the 200 kilo watt grid connected solar rooftop system in its office. But among the state government offices, Muda is the first to have a large scale rooftop solar system. Several offices have small rooftop systems of 3, 5 and 10 kilo watt capacities," explained an officer.
 
 According to Shrikantha Adiga, a service provider, the Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) had conducted a study on a Solar City Master Plan for Mysuru through a private agency as far back as 2012. "But none of the major offices were able to harness solar power in big scale. MUDA's grand plan on tapping the solar power is commendable," he said.
 
 
