HYDERABAD: A staggering 10,208 people committed suicide in Telangana in 2015, an over 6% rise from 9,623 in 2014. The national total stands at an alarming 1,30,639.

 While reasons were not known in 2,885 cases, the  's latest report says the most common trigger was `family problems' which drove 1,656 persons to suicide in 2015. Even in the city, reasons were not known for suicides of as many as 264 persons of the total 728.
 
 “Nobody commits suicide without a cause. From the report it appears that local authorities did not conduct thorough investigations before sending the data to  ,“ said  , state president (Telangana chapter) of Indian Psychiatric Society . He said, “The primary reason for such a large number of suicides could be the gap between state policy and the expectation of people, apart from the clear lack of psychiatric facilities in state-run hospitals.“ 
 
 He stressed how under standing the cause for suicide can help policy makers take corrective measures. Speaking about cases when family problems led to suicides, he attributed this to the change in nature of human relationships over time. 
 
 In Hyderabad, family problems and marriage-related issues together claimed 272 lives in 2015, a little higher than those bracketed under `unknown causes'. 
 
 Dr Daljeet Kaur, consultant psychiatrist, Continental Hospitals said one way of dealing with the family-related problems is interpersonal therapy. 
 
 “Interpersonal therapy is used to resolve relationship issues between people such as friends, siblings and parents. For couples, marriage counselling is extremely helpful.“ 
 
 Advocating the need for a positive attitude while dealing with such issues, she said that most of the time there is a solution to a problem.What's missing is patience, flexibility and adaptability to achieve it, she added. Telangana and Chhattisgarh share the dubious distinction of being states with the highest `rate of suicide' (number of suicides per one lakh persons), at 27.7% each.
 
 In the Telangana, daily-wage workers make up for the the highest number of suicides (3,448) followed by `other persons' at 1,808 and farmersthose working in agricultural sector with 1,400 suicides.
 
