SURAT: It is a possible scenario that there will be no malnourished child in India in the next 20 years, provided there is a cohesive effort by the government and the people, opines Dr  , founder of   (CONIN), a non-profit organization dedicated to prevention and recovery of malnourished children aged 0 to 5 years in Argentina.

 Dr Abel, 71, known as ‘Mother Teresa of Argentina’, said India will not have a single malnourished child in the next 20 years if CONIN is given a chance by Indian government to work on ground. He has won many international awards and even been nominated for Nobel Peace Prize in 2012. Dr Abel, who is in Surat to deliver a lecture on ‘Malnutrition and Prevention’ organized by  , told TOI, “It took the Republic of Chile almost 30 years to eradicate malnutrition and bring down its infantile mortality rate from 130:1,000 to 7:1,000. In Argentina, we achieved the same in 25 years. This can be done in India as well with the active support of Indian government and the citizens.”
 
 Malnutrition is not only about food, it involves other factors too such as education to children and parents, health, breastfeeding, play group, reading and writing, vaccination, good water, warm water, etc. 
 
 Malnourishment is an individual and social disease, because our society and family are malnourished, he said. 
 
 CONIN was founded by Dr Abel in the province of Mendoza in Argentina on September 4, 1993. Albino took the successful model of CONIN Chile, devised by founder Dr.  , who managed to successfully break the scourge of child malnutrition in the country. Dr Abel will be flying to New Delhi on February 6 to meet Union minister for health and family welfare. 
 
 “I am going to discuss the CONIN methodology for eradicating malnutrition with the Union minister for health and family welfare in Delhi and convince him to have a similar programme here in India. We are ready to extend all our support and resources to eradicate malnutrition and infantile mortality in India,” Dr Abel added.
 
