BENGALURU: After spending lakhs of rupees of taxpayers' money to study recreational clubs across the country , before finalizing their report on the working style of clubs, the House committee's recommendation making it mandatory for clubs to give honorary membership to sitting public representatives has been dismissed by legislators across the board.They say they don't need this sort of backdoor entry .

 For most legislators outside Bengaluru, it is also a question of public perception. While recreational clubs are a common feature in urban pockets, people who speak of joining clubs in rural areas are still frowned upon, as clubs are mostly associated with gambling and drinking. Besides, there are no avenues for MLAs from rural parts to avail of club memberships.
 
 Former speaker and Virajpet MLA K G Bopaiah, under whose reign the first club report was presented and who has the opportunity to become a member of some scenically located clubs in Kodagu, said he wasn't interested. “Even when I was the speaker, private clubs approached me to become an honorary member.I don't have the habit of either drinking or playing cards, which is primarily what the clubs are meant for,“ he said.
 
 Former minister  , representing Thirthahalli in  , said: “The club membership issue is primarily Bengaluru-centric. Where do I have a club in Thirthahalli?“ JD(S) floor leader and   was more direct. “If they (MLAs) want to get memberships to recreational clubs, let them pay for it. Why do we need this backdoor entry? The report is absolutely unwarranted,“ he said.
 
 Young BJP MLAs V Sunil Kumar from Karkala and D N Jeevaraj from Sringeri said they didn't wish to join any club. “I have never seen the inside of a club and am not in the habit of frequenting clubs,“ said Kumar, adding that anyway , there is not a single club in Karkala constituency in Dakshina Kannada.
 
 Jeevaraj had a poser: “If they restrict it to a constituency , how many of us will have an opportunity? They should at least expand it to the district.“ Jeevaraj counted two good clubs where he could try becoming a member.
 
 However, some ministers dismissed the membership clause and said it does not entail serious debate. “We are ready to regulate these clubs for the public, as most of them are controlled by merchant, businessmen and bureaucrat lobbies. We will ensure permission for traditional Indian attire, which was barred. But honorary membership is not warranted,“ a minister said.
 
 Law minister T B   reportedly advised the committee to send the report to all the departments who have to implement its contents to ensure that it is not shelved permanently but reaches a conclusion.
 
