PATNA: Not only the  , but even the   lacks proper  .

 According to sources, Patna police had received a letter from the Patna high court’s security official recently demanding one inspector-rank official and 50 additional constables.
 
 Sources said only around 110 police personnel are posted on the Patna high court premises for its security against the sanctioned strength of 283 for a couple of years.
 
 Sources said one DSP-rank officer, 21 sub-inspectors (SI) and assistant sub-inspectors (ASI), 70 constables (all unarmed) are deployed for the security on the Patna high court campus.
 
 Besides, around 20 armed personnel of   personnel (BMP) are deployed to man the four gates of the court and more than ten armed personnel are on escort duty of the Chief Justice. Each Patna high court judge has been provided two bodyguards, sources said.
 
 When asked, a police officer on the condition of anonymity said the situation has been almost the same for past two years. “The vacant posts of security personnel are yet to be filled,” he said.
 
 When contacted, Patna SSP Manu Maharaaj said the number of security personnel at the high court would be increased soon.
 
 There are a dozen doorframe metal detectors (DFMD) and hand-held metal detectors (HHMD) at the high court. The situation at the Patna high court is the same as on the premises of district courts in the state where any one is hardly frisked or checked before entering the campus. More than a fortnight back, four youths were spotted distributing pamphlets of a real estate company inside the campus. The strictness could only be seen at the entrance of the court rooms.
 
 The added security feature at the Patna high court is that CID is involved in its security arrangements on regular basis besides monitoring the premises through close-circuit cameras, which are not available at most of the courts in Bihar.
 
 “Lack of manpower is the matter of concern. In addition, almost all courts, including the high court, in the state have old sanctioned strength of security personnel,” an officer said.
 
 
