LUCKNOW: Wife of a   deputy commissioner died under mysterious circumstances after she fell from the 14th floor of a residential multi-storey apartment (close to  ) in Hazratganj, late Thursday night.

 The victim, identified as Namrata Paswan Chaudhary (28) of Gorakhpur was married to Deep Ratan, posted in Lucknow. She lived with her husband and mother-in-law in flat number 104 of the apartment. Police have yet to ascertain whether she was pushed from the top or she jumped to death. Around 8.30pm, security guard employed at the apartment Krishna Yadav heard a loud thud and went to check. On seeing a woman lying in a pool of blood he informed the police. 
 
 During police probe, it surfaced that Namrata had had gone to her father R N Paswan’s house in Sector F of Sarojininagar in the afternnon to attend her sister’s engagement. 
 
 She came back at 4.30pm and found the doors of her flat locked. Police said she called her husband who reportedly came in after two hours. This led to verbal spat between them, said police on the basis of statements given by the neighbours. ASP (east) Shivram Yadav said the body of Namrata was found on the ground and it seemed she might have been pushed from the 14th floor or might have jumped to death, but post mortem is awaited. Ratan has gone missing and his phone was switched off, while none of his family members could be contacted. “We are checking house of his relative in Gomtinagar,” police added.
 
 Circle officer, Hazratganj, Avanish Mishra said, “We inspected the terrace on the 14th floor of the Apartment and found a bag, containing medicines along with prescription of a psychiatric and a deodrant in the bag and slippers of the victim lying scattered
 
 On February 4, Namrata had shifted to her maternal house located in sector F, Aashiana. Her sister was getting engaged and Namrata spent some days with her family. “She had not told anybody where she was going,” said Teerath, the victim’s grandfather, who had reached the spot. 
 
 Lucknow: Wife of a commercial tax deputy commissioner died under mysterious circumstances after she fell from the 14th floor of a residential multi-storey apartment (close to Bahukhandi Mantri Awas) in Hazratganj, late Thursday night.
 
 The victim, identified as Namrata Paswan Chaudhary (28) of Gorakhpur was married to Deep Ratan, posted in Lucknow. She lived with her husband and mother-in-law in flat number 104 of the apartment. Police have yet to ascertain whether she was pushed from the top or she jumped to death.
 
 Around 8.30pm, security guard employed at the apartment Krishna Yadav heard a loud thud and went to check. On seeing a woman lying in a pool of blood he informed the police. 
 
 During police probe, it surfaced that Namrata had had gone to her father R N Paswan’s house in Sector F of Sarojininagar in the afternnon to attend her sister’s engagement ceremony. She came back at 4.30pm and found the doors of her flat locked. Police said she called her husband who reportedly came in after two hours. This led to verbal spat between them, said police on the basis of statements given by the neighbours. 
 
 ASP (east) Shivram Yadav said the body of Namrata was found on the ground and it seemed she might have been pushed from the 14th floor or might have jumped to death, but post mortem is awaited. Ratan has gone missing and his phone was switched off, while none of his family members could be contacted. “We are checking house of his relative in Gomtinagar,” police added.
 
 Circle officer, Hazratganj, Avanish Mishra said, “We inspected the terrace on the 14th floor of the Apartment and found a bag, containing medicines along with prescription of a psychiatric and a deodrant in the bag and slippers of the victim lying scattered. “Prima facie it appears that there was a tiff,” Mishra told TOI. He also said the prescriptions were dated February 6, which suggests she was undergoing treatment.
 
 Hazratganj police inspector D K Upadhayay said, “We are scanning footage of CCTV installed at the gates.”
 
 On February 4, Namrata had shifted to her maternal house located in sector F, Aashiana. Her sister was getting engaged and Namrata spent some days with her family. “She had not told anybody where she was going,” said Teerath, the victim’s grandfather, who had reached the spot. 
 
 “We have asked Teerath to give us a complaint and a case under IPC section 304B which amounts to dowry death, will be pressed against Ratan and he will be arrested,” said SP East. 
 
 “My sister was beaten up by Deep Ratan everyday and used to complain to us though we never stopped her from going back to live with her husband,” said Pratik, her younger brother. He also said Namrata was an LLM from BBAU.
 
 “Namrata was not the kind who would take the extreme step,” Ram Krishna, her maternal uncle told TOI.
 
 Security guard at the apartment told TOI, that entry and exit of vistors is recorded and not of the residents.
 
 
