THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: On Women’s Day, Manaveeyam Veedhi witnessed an innovative campaign ‘Celebrate Menstruation’ by Sustainable Menstruation Kerala Collective. The campaign, which discussed the topic of menstruation in a public platform, also gave awareness on environment-friendly alternative products for sanitary napkins.

 Nikitha Azad, a Punjab-based college student who shot to fame after launching campaign #happytobleed in protest against   temple denying entry to menstrual women, was one of the speakers of the panel discussion that was held in the evening. “Following the campaign, Happytobleed team conducted surveys in parts of Haryana. We found that many women are not comfortable to talk about it to family members and try to hide. They use things like cloth, ash and sand and get repeated infection. We saw cases were uteruses of women were removed due to infection,” Nikitha said.
 
 She also elaborated on the need for using environment-friendly alternatives such as cloth pad and menstrual cups and also about the need to talk to girls about menstrual hygiene and discuss with people, irrespective of their gender, about various biological processes including menopause.
 
 Arjun Unnikrishnan, founder of Red Cycle, which is engaged in creating awareness on menstruation, said that he had no idea about menstruation till he completed his plus two. “Family and school are our two sources to know about this. However, it is never discussed there. It was the story of   that inspired me to start the Red Cycle campaign,” he said. “Woman use four sanitary napkins per day during periods and imagine that kind of waste generated. It is time to be responsible,” he added.
 
 There was sale of menstrual cups and cloth pads at a stall put up at Manaveeyam Veedhi. Sraddha Sreejaya, one of the members of the collective, said that they received positive response for the campaign. “Both men and women turned up and asked us about the alternative products. The students from city schools were given an awareness session on menstruation,” she said. Around 12 menstrual cups and almost all cloth pads were sold.
 
 Aishwarya K K, another member of the collective, said people were curious about the alternative products and campaign in general. “They raised several questions, especially about menstrual cups and its usage,” she said.
 
