NAGPUR: Among   lining up at the RBI office, there are others too making a desperate attempt to deposit their old notes. The stock reason is that the money was tucked away somewhere and found while cleaning the house, or belongs to a person who passed away recently. The   sent all of them back, with the advise to hope that   changes his mind and has pity on them.

 As the ordinance allows only those travelling abroad from November 10 to December 30, a merchant navy officer who returned a fortnight ago was sent back. The reason given being that he had come back well before the deadline for depositing notes in banks ended.
 
 People standing outside raised a question; if a person returned to India on December 29 and did not go to a bank the next day, will he be allowed by the RBI. “The RBI should take a decision on case to case basis, and also have lenient approach considering practical difficulties,” said chartered accountant Julfesh Shah.
 
 Sitting next to an NRI’s wife, 68-year old Ratna Madankar was in tears as she talked to TOI. She had a single Rs500 note. Alone, she earns a living by doing odd jobs like tuitions and stitching. She claims to have been away in New Delhi, where banks officials said the notes could only be deposited in  , where she had an account. By the time she came back, the deadline had ended. “It’s OK if they don’t take it now, but I have really worked hard to earn that much,” said Madankar as she broke down.
 
 Afrin Ahmed showed the railway ticket to prove that she only returned on January 2 from her village near Varanasi. She said her mother was ill and she had to stay in the village since October. “The money means a lot, especially in these days, when the kids are not well,” she said. 
 
 Jitendra Kashyap showed the death certificate of his brother Shailendra Kashyap. “He passed away on December 30. Mentally challenged, he used to live in a hostel at Nandanvan. He had earned Rs8,000 by doing odd jobs like making incense sticks. When the room was cleaned after his death, the money was found. RBI officials told me to wait. Maybe Modiji will have some pity on people like me, they said,” he told TOI.
 
 A student, Kushal Madavi, came with Rs5,000 which he said were found in his grandmother’s cupboard after she died on December 25.
 
 “My sister sent me Rs30,000 from Bhopal. There is an RBI office in that city too, but only the one in Nagpur is among the five centres where money is being accepted. Here, I was turned away, saying that the facility is only for NRIs,” said Prateek Gupta, a student.
 
 TOI came across over 20 non-NRIs who had come to try their luck at RBI with amounts ranging up to Rs10,000.
 
 “We have to strictly go by the circular,” was the answer for all of them by the RBI officer dealing with note deposits.
 
