Bhopal: At a time when state government is going all-out promoting its ambitious river conservation programme – ‘Narmada Sewa Yatra’, resident welfare associations ( ) have called for determining   connection as an individual right. 

 Around two dozen residents of the area staged a protest demanding urgent attention from the government on the matter. 
 
 “We have waited patiently for   supply in Bhopal and now the government must ensure that we get direct access to Narmada water. Getting individual water connection from Narmada pipeline should be declared an individual right,” said KD Kannojiya, president of Sant Asaram Nagar RWA. 
 
 Narmada water is being distributed across 30% of the state capital. It was an ambitious project of the state government that promised to bring water woes for Bhopal to an end. However, colonies along Hoshangabad road are yet to get the promised water supply.
 
 “We have applied for individual water connection. However, the BMC has expressed its inability to meet our needs. The government has spent crores of rupees and BMC cannot deliver,” he said.
 
 BMC has qualified many of the colonies, sources said, to gain access to Narmada water pipeline through overhead water connections. However, residents like Kannojiya are not inclined to accept such proposals. 
 
 “We want direct connection of Narmada pipeline in our households. Overhead water tank maintenance and distribution is an incremental cost that many retired residents like me can not bear,” he said.
 
 ***
 
 Idgah filtration plant to be operation today
 
 Sunday turned out to be a day dedicated to deal with water crisis for much of Idgah Hills and surrounding areas. Over two lakh people in six BMC wards were adversely affecting owing to damage in pipeline line connection the Idgah filtration plant and pumping station at Upper Lake.
 
 BMC officials said that pipeline was repaired around 1 am on Sunday. It takes about 15 to 18 hours for the water to be filled at the filtration plant and be ready for supply. Water supply is expected to resume from Monday morning. 
 
 Areas affected get water from Idgah pumping station including Koh-e-fiza, Idgah Hills, Hamidia hospital, Shahjehanabad and towards Lal Ghati. 
 
 The damage took place on Saturday when drilling for a new 600 mm pipeline for Rs 6 crore being laid. It would connect the two stations. 
 
 
