HYDERABAD: After announcing a number of welfare schemes such as distribution of fish, sheep, two-bedroom houses, 12 per cent reservation for Muslims and Rs 1,000 pension to single women, to name a few, the K Chandrasekhar Rao government in the state is all set to launch another initiative that would not only give work to the starving-weavers but help woo a large number of women.The   government is planning to distribute 86 lakh saris to women below poverty line i.e., white ration card holders during Bathukamma festival that is celebrated officially on a grand scale in the state. The order for weaving the saris would be given to handloom and powerloom weavers in  , particularly those in  .

 The Bathukamma saris are estimated to cost the exchequer a jaw-dropping Rs 160 crore. While the critics of the ruling TRS may describe it as an another election stunt to woo women voters, the weavers who have been struggling for survival will have their hands full when they get the order to make about 86 lakh saris, which are likely to be distributed to women on the eve of Bathukamma festival. Enquiries have revealed that the designs and colours of these saris depicting Telangana and its culture are being finalised. The state government is likely to issue formal orders to the Telangana State Handloom Weavers Co-operative Society Limited shortly.
 
 What's more, the state government has given orders for weaving another 5 lakh saris to be given as part of the KCR Kit. It will cost another Rs 12.5 crore.The KCR Kit consists of 16 essential things needed for a newborn and will be useful for up to three months. The kit comes packed with soaps useful for mother and child, baby oil, baby bed, mosquito net, dresses, saris, handbag, towels and napkins, powder, diapers, shampoo and toys for the kid.
 
 Officials said that true to the assurance of KCR and IT & industry minister K T Rama Rao, the powerloom and handloom weavers in the state, those in Sircilla in particular, are being flooded with orders. If the sari scheme comes their way, the Bathukamma festival this year will surely fill the households of weavers with joy.
 
 The Telangana State Handloom Weavers Co-operative Society Limited joint director   refused to comment on Bathukamma order, but said they received orders from the welfare, health medical and tourism departments. Society's vice-chairperson and managing director   confirmed that the orders were far more than what they used to get in the last few years.
 
