MANALI: Inspector Ram Lal and his team were on their routine patrolling near  , the gateway to  , when they stopped a jeep for checking and recovered 1.9kg charas from possession of two persons last week. The accused are undergoing trial in the case.

 This is one of the dozens of cases under   that are registered in different police stations of Kullu, which has now become internationally notorious for production of best charas of the world.
 
 “We frequently lay nakas on the highways and link roads. We keep an eye on each vehicle and pedestrian. Many times we have to work hard to detect the hidden charas. On other occasions, it becomes easier for us when people carrying the contraband start fearing and running after watching the police. This has become a part of our job. We can smell the criminal,” a police officer said.
 
 For over a decade, Kullu has launched anti-cannabis campaign to eradicate charas from the entire district. It’s strange that remote areas of this tiny district have continued to produce quality charas which is being supplied to many countries. The local charas mafia, according to police sources, has joined hand with outsiders to spread the web of this illegal trade. Over 500 locals, including women, have been booked under the NDPS Act and over hundred are convicted and jailed.
 
 Police have seized about 35kg charas since January this year. The   (NCB) on Sunday arrested a Kullu man with 28kg charas in Delhi. Police are clueless and surprised that how such large quantity of charas is being produced in Kullu. District police spends most of the time and energy in collecting information, laying trap and nabbing the charas mafia.
 
 Kullu police chief Padam Chand said no doubt the cannabis cultivation in Kullu has decreased, but cases of seizure have increased due to better surveillance and dedicated force. “There is a possibility that all charas selling in international market in the name of “Malana Cream” actually doesn’t belong to Kullu. Kullu’s charas fetches the highest price in the market and some people from other areas are bringing charas to Kullu before selling it in other states to get the fake brand name for higher price. We had one such case on February 21 when a person from Sikkim was arrested with 11kg charas which he had brought from Nepal to get Kullu’s brand name,” he said.
 
 The session court in Kullu has many pending cases under the NDPS Act. The charas mafia has produced many renowned lawyers who are specialist in NDPS cases. The police stations here are given targets to achieve on a monthly basis and NCB keeps a special eye on Kullu.
 
 While charas mafia is inventing new techniques to transfer charas out of the state, police and NCB spend its energy in breaking the codes. The battle between mafia and police has continued for over two decades but the truth is that a large amount of charas is still finding its way to different parts in India and abroad.
 
 
