BENGALURU: After surging to record levels last year, the prices of   have toppled in   following a bumper crop.

 In Karnataka, a major cultivator of the pulse, this year’s production is estimated at 20-25 lakh metric tonnes against 12.50 lakh metric tonnes last year. Even other pulse-growing states like Maharashtra and Gujarat have had a good crop.
 
  Lahoti, president, Bangalore Wholesale Food Grains and Pulses Merchants Association, said: “Tur dal growers are facing losses as prices have crashed below the minimum support price (MSP) of Rs 5,050 per quintal. Apart from a bumper harvest, demonetization has brought down the prices to a record low.”
 
 Wholesale prices in Kalaburagi and Bidar, the main pulse markets in the state, fell to Rs 4,500-4,875 a quintal. The two districts contribute over 60% of the state’s red gram production. The area under cultivation had increased by at least five lakh hectares in the Hydrebad-Karnatak region because of a good monsoon.
 
 Consumers, however, are yet to reap the benefits. Though tur dal is being sold at Rs 70-75 a kg in wholesale markets, the prices in retail markets are hovering between Rs 90 and Rs 110. Lahoti said they may drop after old stocks get cleared. Tur prices had climbed to Rs 250 during the same time last year. Officials say last year’s drought saw a huge shortage of the dal, forcing prices to go northward.
 
 With the prices having halved over the past fortnight, the government should look to distribute tur dal through PDS shops.   chairman TN Prakash Kammaradi said the government is in the process of setting up a federation of pulses, which will purchase pulses at a fixed price from farmers and sell them when the rates are high. “Like KMF, the proposed federation will intervene when there is glut, procure and store the produce, and sell it later,” he added.
 
 He said the federation can also work as an agent for both the state and Centre to distribute tur dal through PDS. “The Centre is already distributing one kg of tur dal per BPL family via PDS every month with a requirement of about one lakh quintals per month,” Kammaradi added.
 
 More decentralized centres 
 
 I have asked the agriculture marketing department to open more decentralized centres within the reach of farmers. Also, the cooperation secretary has been asked to speak to deputy commissioners to look into below-MSP sales, sort out bottlenecks if any and publicize MSP among farmers 
 
 Krishna C ByreGowda, agriculture minister 
 
