Patna: The   Teachers’ Association (PUTA) has alleged that former VC Y C Simhadri acted whimsically and violated the legal provisions while okaying or denying promotions under the career advancement scheme ( ) and, that too, at the fag end of his three-year term that ended recently.

 The proceedings of the screening committee and selection committee meetings procured under the RTI Act by a section of aggrieved teachers indicate that the then VC acted contrary to the recommendations of these statutory committees.
 
 The screening and selection committees, for instance, had recommended promotion to Vani Bhushan, Yogendra Kumar Verma and Shiv Shankar Singh from the due date of their promotion, but Simhadri granted them promotion from the date of selection committee meeting.
 
 Likewise, the case of a political science teacher, which was rejected by the screening committee, was placed before the selection committee and the teacher was granted promotion. “As per statutory provision, no promotion case can be put up before the selection committee unless it is cleared by the screening committee,” said a source.
 
 The case of Patna Women’s College’s political science teacher Shefali Roy was approved by the screening committee but rejected by the selection committee on the ground that she did not have enough experience of teaching in a postgraduate department. “Experience of PG teaching is nowhere mentioned in the CAS promotion statute,” the source said, adding a few   and B N College teachers were promoted as professors even though they too did not have experience of postgraduate teaching.
 
 The affected teachers have urged governor-cum-chancellor Ram Nath Kovind to institute a high-level inquiry and punish the guilty. They have also urged him to order immediate disposal of all pending cases of promotion of teachers in the university.
 
 PUTA president Pramod Kumar Poddar and general secretary Anil Kumar have also demanded fresh meetings of screening and selection committees for promotion of teachers. “So many PU teachers have been denied promotion for long while their counterparts in other universities of the state were granted promotion several years back,” said Poddar.
 
 Former VC Simhadri, when contacted, denied the allegations and asserted he strictly followed the rules and regulations of promotions. “I rather corrected the wrongs done during the past several years,” he said.
 
 
