VADODARA: A city-based   (CA) has filed a complaint against   (UA), in the   forum in the city.   has accused the airline of causing him   in October last year. Shah has sought a compensation of Rs 19.5 lakh from the airline citing deficiency in services and ill-treatment by crew. 

 UA had shot into limelight last month after security officers dragged a passenger off its flight in Chicago citing overbooking. The passenger had threatened to sue the airlines as he had suffered injuries during the incident. Shah in his complaint has said that he had booked a flight from Mumbai to Newark on October 14, 2016 as he had to attend social and business meetings. 
 
 “I reached airport on time only to learn that the flight boarding has been delayed by 90 minutes. After boarding, all the passengers were kept seated in the plane for four hours from 12 am to 4 am. After inquiring several times, I was told that they were waiting for clearance. During the waiting period I faced gastric trouble as no food was provided,” Shah said. Later the flight captain announced that the flight has been cancelled as there was some communication issue with their headquarters in Chicago. 
 
 “I got my immigration stamping cancelled from customs following which I was allotted a room in a hotel. On October 15, I received an email that the same flight has been rescheduled to 7 pm on the same route. The boarding was again delayed by 45 minutes and then the flight was waiting on runway for about two hours without any announcement,” Shah added. 
 
 “The flight was again cancelled at 10.30 pm due to technical reasons but all the passengers were asked to be seated in plane till 11.30 pm. Then it was announced that crew of another cancelled flight were being replaced to our flight. They further delayed the flight due to technical reasons like door lock of pilot’s cabin not working and expiry of oxygen mask gas. It is shocking that maintenance and safety checks done prior to the flight were so poor,” Shah said. 
 
 It was announced that the flight will take Boston route for refuelling but after an hour it was again cancelled due to technical reasons. “Again, no food was offered during the six hours we spent in the plane that affected my health. On October 16, at 3 am I demanded for an alternate flight following which I was given a flight to Newark via London. I reached 38 hours late after physical hardships and mental agony,” Shah said and added that he suffered financial losses as his meeting on October 15 in US had to be cancelled due to the delay. 
 
 “I gave feedback on the UA website about the incident and all I got was a $ 500 travel certificate but I denied it and told them that I will be sending a legal notice. I have demanded compensation of Rs 17 lakh for the monetary loss and ill treatment by the UA crew, Rs 2 lakh towards mental and physical harassment and Rs 50,000 towards the cost of complaint. The forum has sent a notice to UA’s office in Mumbai,” Shah said. 
 
