SHIMLA: Realizing that blaming each other at this crucial juncture ahead of assembly polls is harming the interests of party besides posing a big question mark on the chances of repeating the government, Congress leaders — chief minister   and transport minister G S Bali finally put aside their differences on Saturday after holding four rounds of meetings in a span of four hours in Shimla.

 For the last few days, bitterness between Virbhadra and Bali had reached its peak with both attacking each other with their statements from public platforms. The differences of senior Congress leaders especially those holding important positions in the government were sending wrong signals down the line in the party.
 
 Highly placed sources in the government told TOI that on Saturday, Virbhadra himself had called the Bali to his office to sort out the things. It was chairman of HP state cooperative bank, Harsh Mahajan who met Bali with the message of chief minister. Three days back, Bali had said that Virbhadra can remove him from the cabinet if wants so and the CM had retaliated by saying that though Bali’s statement come under indiscipline but he would not be removed from the cabinet.
 
 After Mahajan persuaded Bali to meet Virbhadra , both leaders met at the chief minister’s office and held four rounds of discussion in four hours. Sources said that in the meeting not only differences were resolved but the discussion was also held regarding the poll strategy to be presented before the party high command.
 
 Sources said that in the meeting both leaders referred to the statements they had given against each other and latter they agreed on the fact that such statements cannot affect their 40 years old political association. Sources said that after resolving their differences, both leaders have agreed to work unitedly to ensure the success of mission repeat campaign launched by the government.
 
 With assembly polls likely to be held in the first week of November, Congress is slowly putting its house in order by bringing the warring faction together. Earlier, during the foundation stone laying ceremony of Dharamshala bus stand on September 10, Bali and Sudhir Sharma had joined hands that would certainly change the political equations in the Kangra district having 15 assembly seats.
 
 In Himachal Pradesh, so far the Congress is lagging behind in poll campaign from the BJP. Though Congress leaders were touring the different parts of state but during their public addresses they are spitting venom against each other to expose the intense internal infighting.
 
 “If Congress wants to repeat the government then the leaders would have to work as a team to send the message that all are united. Otherwise, it is not an easy task to repeat the government in Himachal Pradesh where people vote to change the government after five years,” said a senior Congress leader.
 
 Sources said that since AICC general secretary, Sushil Kumar Shinde has become the party in-charge for state, bickering in the Congress has intensified and leaders are opening targeting each other in the public meetings. Contrarily in BJP, all are working like disciplined soldiers irrespective of their internal differences as PM Modi and BJP national president   are directly monitoring the activity of all the senior leaders, sources informed.
 
