PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: A day after the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation ( ) began   in the city, residents from many areas complained of inadequate and low pressure water supply.

 This is the second consecutive year when the civic body has decided to start alternate day water supply. The decision was taken at a meeting of civic officials, civic office bearers and corporators from various parties on April 25. The meeting was presided by Pimpri Chinchwad mayor Nitin Kalje.
 
 Kalje had said   dam is 38.37% full. He added that the irrigation department has told the civic body that this water can meet the drinking water needs of PCMC as well as other dependent civic bodies till July 31. The dam was 26.65% full on April 25, 2016.
 
 He said, “So we have 11.72% more water in the dam. But the daily drinking water consumption in the city is constantly increasing with the rapid growth of population. So, we will introduce alternate day water supply as a precautionary measure so we are not caught unawares if the monsoon gets delayed or if rainfall is scanty in June.”
 
 Water supply department officials had claimed that people will get adequate water supply and under good pressure after the introduction of alternate day water supply on Tuesday. 
 
 But residents say this claim is proving to be false.
 
 Pramod Saste, of Moshi told TOI, “We received low pressure water supply on Wednesday morning. So, we were not able to store sufficient water for Thursday. We will have to use the stored water scarcely so that it suffices till Friday morning, when we will get water again.”
 
 Yuvraj Dhakale, of Kalewadi said that various areas in Kalewadi received inadequate and low water supply on Tuesday. Some of the affected areas are Tapkirnagar, Moraya colony and Paris colony, he said.
 
 Thergaon resident Pradeep Gosavi said that they are receiving water supply only on odd days now. The resident of   said, “There are 70 flats in the society. Now we will have to depend more on borewell water. As a result, the ground water levels are expected to fall in a few days due to over-usage. This means in the future, we may have to depend on water tankers.”
 
 Pravin Ladkat, executive engineer of the water supply department in PCMC said that the junior engineers and other field staff of the department are handling water complaints. 
 
 “These are teething problems, which we are solving. After a few days, there will be no such complaints as we shall fine-tune the water supply. People can lodge their complaints about water supply related problems on the helpline 7722060999,” Pravin Ladkat said.
 
