VIJAYAWADA: The   (ACB) conducted raids at various places in   and Telangana and caught two corrupt officials allegedly having massive   worth several crores on Monday.

 One of the main accused officer is identified as   (59), working as Director of   (DTPC) of Andhra Pradesh in Gorentla Guntur. The other accused who had the biggest amount of disproportionate assets is identified as Nalluri Venkata Siva Prasad (53), a junior technical officer in engineering section in Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC). Under the directions of RP Thakur, director general of ACB, sleuths conducted simultaneous raids at the main accused officers house and 23 other places. All these places include the properties that both accused officers and family members own and also raided his benami residences and unearthed documents belonging to them.
 
 In Siva Prasad’s case, the Central Investigation Unit (CIU) reached his house in Gannavaram at 6 am in the morning and conducted the searches and soon, piles of documents and kgs of gold and diamond jewellery began tumbling out. ACB sources told TOI that the link between the two accused officers is that Raghu and Siva Prasad and his wife Chintamaneni Gayathri who is an assistant engineer were close family friends as they worked together in Vijayawada Municipal Corporation back in 2003. Raghu established five companies in the name of his mother-in-law and another benami Subba Rao.
 
 Subsequently all the five companies were transferred in the name of Chintamaneni Gayathri who is the wife of Siva Prasad. Majority of the properties were under the name of Gayathri. Ironically, Gayathri (45) comes from a poor farmer background from Morampudi village. ACB officials said that she joined as a junior assistant on compassionate grounds in VMC back in 1992 after her mother who was a Hindi pandit passed away. After physically weighing all the gold and diamond jewellery, ACB sleuths were shocked to find that Siva Prasad had 8.741 kgs of gold jewellery and 2.25 kgs of diamond jewellery worth Rs 5 crore.
 
 Going into the history of both officials, Siva Prasad, native of Gunadala in Vijayawada completed his qualification in ITI and joined as NMR work inspector in the year 1984 in VMC. His services was regularised in 1991 and 14 years later he was promoted as junior technical officer. In the case of Raghu, he entered government service as assistant director in the department of town & country planning and worked in places like Ananthapur, Nellore and Rajahmundry. In the year 2004, he was promoted as joint director and transferred and worked as chief city planner in Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC).
 
 Back in January 2009, he was promoted as additional director and worked here. In the month of November 2009, he was transferred to GHMC and worked as chief city planner and promoted as director. ACB said that it was during this tenure he managed to earn most of ill-gotten wealth. After bifurcation, he was posted as director of town and country planning of AP and working as such till date. ACB officials suspect that in both cases they must have received a lot of kickbacks for doing official favours for companies trying to get government tenders. They also did not rule out any misappropriation of government funds and said that the matter needs to be investigated. As of now ACB sleuths filed two disproportionate assets case on Siva Prasad and Raghu. Both of them have been placed under arrest and will soon be produced before the ACB court in Vijayawada for judicial remand. The investigation is still on and officials believe that there are more assets to be unearths and the overall disproportionate value might increase.
 
 
