HYDERABAD: Will the new   empowering it with   likely to become a stumbling block to increase   and Schedule Tribes? That is what the   is apprehending. The TRS MPs had given resounding support to the bill that sought setting up of a national commission for BCs in the Lok Sabha, only to realize now that the new national body will have wide-reaching powers including the need for its approval for any state to increase reservation beyond 50% and also the inclusion and   in the backward classes.

 The new National BC Commission (Bill of 712017) was mooted by the Centre a couple of months ago on the lines of the National SC and ST Commission. While the bill was passed by the Lok Sabha in June, in the Rajya Sabha, it has been referred to a select committee.
 
 Sources in the state government said the move for prior approval of the National BC Commission for increasing the quota or adding or deleting BC communities to the quota list will delay the whole process. There is no guarantee that the National BC Commission will approve the reservation hike proposal as the Centre is opposing reservations on the basis of religion. The TRS has promised to increase the quota for minorities under the BC E category . Towards that end, the Telangana Assembly had on April 16 passed a resolution increasing the quota from 4% to 12% for minorities (under BC E category) and 6% to 10% for STs in education and employment. The bill was sent to the Centre soon after the Assembly's resolution for making necessary amendments to the 9thschedule. However, even three months later, there has been no movement on the quota in Delhi.
 
 Interestingly , the state government welcomed the move of giving constitutional status to National BC Commission when it was cleared by Lok Sabha a couple of months ago. It was only after the State BC Commission analyzed the clauses in the new Bill that the state realized that it would undermine the interests of the TRS government.
 
 “We welcome empowering the National BC Commission on the lines of the National SC, ST Commission. But the state commission is against certain clauses that make the state body work under the National Commission. We will oppose any such move,“ Telangana State Commission for Backward Classes chairman BS Ramulu told TOI on Thursday. At the recent South India BC Commissions meeting in Bengaluru, the new Bill on National BC Commission was discussed and it was felt that the clauses were detrimental to the powers of state BC Commissions. “Like in Niti Ayog, all state chief ministers are members, all chairmen of state BC Commissions should be made members of National BC Commission. All major policy matters of the Union government affecting socially and educationally backward classes, should be discussed at the commission,“ BS Ramulu said.
 
 As of now, the BC Commission has the powers to conduct a population survey of BCs and go for reclassification, but under the new provisions, the state BC Commission will not have these powers. The Telangana government had recently proposed to take up a massive survey of BCs through the commission on the lines of the Samagra Kutumba Survey (SKS). But once the new National BC Commission comes into being, it will not have powers to conduct such a survey.
 
 The state government is of the opinion that the Centre should either make the 2011 caste census public or authorize states to conduct its own census.
 
