NAGPUR: With an aim to  ,   (RSC),   National Open University (IGNOU) and Hislop College jointly organized a workshop on ‘Fundamental   and its use in advanced research’ at the college, Civil Lines on Saturday.

 Speakers from Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Bombay and Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) addressed an audience of 200 post graduate (PG) and research students from nearly 12 educational and research institutes. D
 
 Chemistry department (PG and research) director Lata Deshmukh said, “Students are the future of the society and advancement in science and research will affect them tomorrow. The workshop will help students broaden their perspective about chemistry.”
 
 Stressing the need to encourage students to take up research, principal Dipti Christian said, “I am delighted with the turnout today, research students from Neeri and other leading educational institutes like Shivaji Science College, Visveshwarya National Institute of Technology are present here to listen to the speakers.”
 
 IGNOU Nagpur regional director P Sivaswaroop said, “The workshop aims to help students explore the beautiful world of chemistry and comprehend the various developments in the subject. Speakers will guide the students and an interactive session will also be held.”
 
 Speaking on ‘Cancer: Chemistry to the rescue’, Dimpy Kalia, faculty, SPPU, said, “Advancement in science, particularly chemistry, has created wonders in the field of medicine. Various diseases can be cured with the help of chemistry. Natural compounds like resveratrol and n-acetyl cysteine can be used to prevent formation of estrogen-DNA adducts. It arrests transformation of damaged cells into cancerous cells.”
 
 Ruchi Anand, faculty, IIT Bombay, spoke on ‘Macromolecular crystallography and photography at the atomic level’. “The topic rotates around the basics of nuclear study. Application of chemistry in photography is not new. Crystallography and chemical usage means identifying molecular structures and chemistry related to it,” she said.
 
 Speaking on ‘Solving structures of organic molecules using 2D nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy’, Suvarn Kulkari, faculty, IIT Bombay, said, “This is the latest method to gather information about the exact structure of chemicals. It exploits the magnetic properties of certain atomic nuclei.” 
 
 
