NAGPUR: Mahametro’s preparations for the trial run of   Rail is in full swing and the officials are confident of achieving their target in second half of 2017.

 The trial run will be conducted over the at grade section of the Metro between Mihan depot and Airport station.
 
 A source in Mahametro said that all the works for trial run were progressing at desired pace. “Be it laying the tracks, traction system (power supply), signalling or depot construction all are as per schedule,” he added.
 
 The earthwork for laying the tracks has been completed. “The laying of ballast (crushed stone) over earthwork has been completed between chief project manager (CPM) office to   station,   to Khapri Metro station and from Mihan flyover to Mihan depot. Only the section between Khapri station to Mihan flyover remains,” the source said.
 
 Laying of tracks has been completed between Mihan flyover and Mihan depot and CPM office to New Airport. Track laying in entire at grade section is expected to be complete by June 30.
 
 The laying of overhead electrical (OHE) mast for providing traction has been completed in Mihan depot. The work will be completed in entire stretch by July end. The remaining work will take another month.
 
 Work of installing signalling systems has begun at Khapri station. The same would start at Airport South and New Airport stations very soon. “We will start with automatic signalling and then switch over to communication based train control (CBTC) system at a later stage. Until the command and control centre is constructed CBTC is not possible,” the source further said.
 
 Coaches for trial run will be rented from  . The process is in advanced stages. The construction of the depot will be completed by June end.
 
 Meanwhile, civil aviation ministry is yet to appoint the commissioner of metro rail safety for Nagpur Metro. “The appointment is expected in a month. This wing comes under civil aviation ministry since British times. If the commissioner belongs to Indian Railways then he can’t do his job without internal pressure,” the source added.
 
