JAIPUR: Free  , which will be provided free of cost in 14 districts of the state from April, might cause   among women in initial stage.

 The   officials claimed that the injectable contraceptives are safe but it may cause irregular bleeding initially.
 
 “After first dose of injectable contraceptives, a woman may face problem of irregular bleeding, but it is for a very short time. It is safe injectable contraceptive,” a health department official said.
 
 Injectable contraceptive will be introduced in 14 districts of the state having total fertility rate higher than three.
 
 Four doses of injections in equal interval of time will prevent pregnancy for one year. “Second dose will be given three months after first dose. In a gap of three months, the injection will be repeated to prevent pregnancy. It will be given voluntarily,” a health department official said adding that they would give a certain amount as incentive to a woman, who adopts the new method of preventing pregnancy.
 
 The official said that once the injection is given, it prevent ovum to get mature. When ovum does not get mature, a woman cannot become pregnant.
 
 The government has introduced it as another option for spacing between two children without surgery. The methods for spacing are postpartum intrauterine devices (PPIUD) which needs minor surgery and pills which remain effective for a very short time.
 
 The 14 districts identified for injectable contraceptives are Barmer, Dholpur, Banswara, Karauli, Jalore, Sawai Madhopur, Udaipur, Rajsamand, Jaisalmer, Pali, Sirohi, Baran and Bharatpur.
 
 National Health Mission (NHM) mission director (state) Navin Jain said that these injectable contraceptives will be known as Antara injections. If a woman taken four doses of injectable contraceptives, she does not need to take any other method to prevent pregnancy. The injections will be launched under Mission Pariwar Vikas, launched by the Centre across the country.
 
 He said that for the purpose of launching the injectable contraceptives, the health department is taking technical help of UNCEF, UNFPA and NIPI.
 
 The 14 districts of the state are among 145 districts of the country identified for Mission Parivar Vikar. Recent data suggests that these 145 districts have TFR of more than/equal to 3.0 (56% of the 261 districts in the 7 high focussed states) and are home to 28% of India’s population (about 33 Crores). However, only 22% of India’s protected couples and 40% of India’s couples with unmet need reside in these districts.
 
 These districts also have a substantial impact on maternal and child health indicators as about 25-30% of maternal deaths and 50% of infant deaths occur in these districts Moreover, 115 of these districts (79%) have high percentage of adolescent mothers.
 
 
