RANCHI: Ranchi Municipal Corporation (RMC) went into ' ' a day after the   survey put   on the 117th spot out of 434 cities nationally. 

 According to the civic body, Ranchi missed out on the top 100 clean cities this year because the city was not open defecation free by the end of last year. 
 
 Ranchi's slum areas are home to 34,000 households. Under the Center's Swacch Bharat Abhiyaan, RMC took the onus of constructing low cost toilet units in every household. A fund of Rs 40.80 crore was sanctioned but due to some reasons, only half of the total toilets are constructed. 
 
 "We have constructed 17,000 toilets so far. Since we could not cover every household of the slum areas, we lost out on rankings,"  , the chief executive officer (CEO) of RMC said. "Cities like Chas and Dhanbad which does not have a big slum population, were able to complete the construction of toilets on time," Kumar added. 
 
 Cleanliness and sanitation levels were evaluated on the levels of solid waste management, construction of public toilets and household toilets. The RMC claimed that 80 new public toilets will be made operational in a month. "The agency we hired for the toilet's maintenance has started working. We will see results shortly," Kumar said.
 
 A waste management company was hired for door to door collection of waste and not all of the 55 wards are under its purview. However, RMC aspires to make it among the top 100 clean cities next year once all the systems are in place. 
 
 Dhanbad, which ranked as the 73rd city cleanest city out of the total 73 cities (all India) in last year's survey, ranked 109th in this year's survey out of a total 434 cities. Hazaribag (91), Chas (41), Giridih (81) and Jamshedpur (64) were better than Ranchi. The poor ranking of the capital came as a disappointment to the state government, with the urban development minister CP Singh instructing the civic body to pull up its socks for better performance in next year's survey. 
 
  staged a demonstration outside the RMC's office against Ranchi's poor ranking. AJSU party is the state government's ally.
 
