PUNE: An accused cannot insist for discharge under the organized   unless the sanction to prosecute him is objected to showing defects like an inherent   of the competent authority granting such sanction. 

 J T Utpat, special judge for Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA), made this observation in an order on May 12 while rejecting an application by Siddesh Suresh Pawar, a member of the Gajanan Marne gang, seeking discharge from an MCOCA case relating to the murder of Pankaj Phatak, a member of the rival Nilesh Ghayval gang, on May 30, 2015 in Karvenagar. 
 
 Pawar was among the 11 suspects arrested by Kothrud police for the murder. In October 2015, the police invoked MCOCA against the arrested 11 and a 12th absconding person. 
 
 On October 19, 2016, the special court had rejected Pawar's bail plea. Later, he moved the discharge plea arguing that only one offence was registered against him and it cannot be termed as a continuing unlawful activity, that he cannot be said to be a member of an organized crime syndicate and invoking MCOCA provision against him was unjust. 
 
 Pawar had recorded a confession under Section 18 of MCOCA on August 3, 2015 but, retracted it before a chief judicial magistrate on August 4, 2015. As such, he argued there was no case against him for being tried under MCOCA and he should be discharged. 
 
 Special prosecutor C S Salvi opposed the discharge plea, arguing that there were two eyewitnesses who saw the applicant (Pawar) assaulting the deceased. Pawar and co-accused   had recorded their confessions under the provisions of the MCOCA and the vehicle they used for escaping from the scene of crime was recovered from another co-accused Dushyant Marne. He further argued that in absence of Marne, the gang was being run by his aide Shashank Bodke and there were clear instructions to kill Phatak for establishing supremacy over the Marne gang. 
 
 The judge referred to a 2014 ruling by the   and observed, “When the competent authority has recorded the subjective satisfaction while granting prior approval and accorded sanction, the question of validity of approval or sanction cannot be decided unless the prosecution is accorded an opportunity to lead evidence in that regard. It is further observed that the accused cannot insist for discharge unless objection regarding defects in such approval or sanction relates to   of jurisdiction of authority granting it.” The judge held that in view of this legal position by the high court, the applicant is not entitled for discharge. 
 
