Chennai: The economy may be facing headwinds but it is raining IPOs (initial public offers) on Dalal Street. About a dozen IPOs, including the mega issue of SBI Life Insurance Company that is open for subscription now, have hit the market in the last two months. With SBI Life’s IPO seeking to raise Rs 8,400 crore, new offers that have launched since August could end up mobilising $2.8 billion (around Rs 18,200 crore).

 The recent IPOs have also seen strong traction, especially among retail investors. 
 
 The IPO of Capacit'e Infraprojects, the company which has the contract to build ‘Trump Tower’ in Mumbai, created history in the stock markets last Friday. 
 
 The company’s Rs 400 crore IPO was subscribed 186 times translating into a demand worth about Rs 52,000 crore. This made it the most subscribed issue in the country in the last 17 years. The portion reserved for HNIs (high net-worth individuals) was subscribed more than 650 times, making it the most subscribed such issue ever in the country. Other IPOs also saw strong demand from investors.
 
 “The secondary (equity) markets have been fairly stable. There is a lot of appetite (among investors) for fresh issues,” says Pranav Haldea, managing director, PRIME Database Group, which compiles data on the primary capital market. “Retail money is coming through the mutual funds route,” he says.
 
 “There is ample liquidity in the system, which is chasing these IPOs,” says G Chokkalingam, founder and MD, Equinomics Research and Advisory. But it has been a mixed bag for issues that got listed recently on the bourses. While Dixon Technologies (India), Apex Frozen Foods and Cochin Shipyard are trading much higher than their offer prices, Matrimony.com, Bharat Road Network and Security and Intelligence Services (India) are quoting lower. Market experts also caution that only an improvement on the earnings front can sustain the momentum. “We need to start seeing an improvement in earnings, new projects started and expansion,” Haldea says.
 
 Fund raising through initial public offerings (IPOs) nearly doubled in 2016-17. IPOs mobilised Rs 29,018 crore in 2016-17, the best showing in six years. The 25 main-board IPOs alone collectively raised Rs 28,211 crore during the year.
 
 Two major issues from the insurance sector — ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company, the largest private sector non-life insurer in the country and SBI Life Insurance — dominate the IPO landscape now. The Rs 5,700 crore IPO from ICICI Lombard, which closed on September 19, got subscribed nearly three times.
 
 SBI Life’s IPO, which is the highest in the last seven years and the biggest ever in the insurance sector in India, would close on September 22. SBI Life would be the second life insurer to list on the bourses. Only ICICI Prudential Life Insurance is listed on the stock exchanges now.
 
 
 
