PUNE: The  , in a bid to battle the rising cybercrime rate in Pune, will soon set up the city’s  , at the  . 

 Last week, following police commissioner Rashmi Shukla’s directives to this effect, officers started working on this project. A senior police officer said this decision was taken after the state government issued a circular to all police units in the state to establish a specialized police station for cybercrime.
 
 In its notificiation, the government had stated that each police unit — rural and city commissionerate — must have a dedicated cyber police station where specialized personnel would address the complaints of the citizens who were affected by online fraud
 
 The city police had already installed heavy-duty servers, computers, and ultra-modern software in a building at the police headquarters. A section of this building will be converted into the cyber police station. The police will maintain a separate station register, which will log all the cybercrimes like online frauds and cheating, cyberattacks, social networking site offences including morphing and defamation, and others.
 
 It will be manned by qualified staff and computer-literate constabulary. Those constables have already undergone intensive training on cybercrime and related investigation.
 
 The city has witnessed a continuous rise in cybercrime since 2012. In 2016 alone, 332 cases were registered. At present, police are receiving 3-4 complaint applications on average per day.
 
 The cybercrime cell of the city police has, through its investigations, arrested many cheats from Pune, Mumbai, Delhi, Noida, Chhattisgarh and other places, and, according to police officers, is burdened with cases.
 
 It was under such circumstances that it was learnt police officers investigations were underequipped to deal with this. Many complaint applications remained under investigation for months at local police stations.
 
 This state of affairs has prompted the authorities to take the decision of setting up a cybercrime-specific police station and officers.
 
