The much sensationalised 
  of a   in Bengaluru, which grabbed the attention of the entire nation on Wednesday, has found a major breakthrough with the   arresting   while two are still at large.

 The four molesters are identified as Aiyappa alias Nitish Kumar, 19, Leno alias Lenin Patrick, 20, Sudhesh alias Sudi, 20, Somashekar alias Chinni, 24, all residents of Kammanahalli area. Police Commissioner Praveen Sood said, “I wholeheartedly appreciate Prashanth Francis, a resident of Kammanahalli who helped us with CCTV camera footage installed at his house which captured the perverted actions of the arrested persons.”
 
 “Soon after, he contacted our men. We did not waste any time, and immediately took up a suo moto case and formed a special team to nab the culprits. The team has zeroed in on four persons within 48 hours. We did not wait for the victim to file a complaint, or try to get in touch with her for a statement because the CCTV camera footage in itself was credible evidence,” he added.
 
 
 
 
 The woman who had recently come to the city for her studies had fallen prey to these perverts. It was not a sudden act at all. One of the woman’s friends was staying near the arrested person’s house. The victim used to visit the friend’s house often, and over the last one week, she stayed at her friend’s place along with another friend. This is when she caught the eye of the molesters. The molesters hang around in the area near eateries and tea stalls, and one day when she was passing through the road, all four noticed her. Leno told the group that he would like to date her.
 
 Since all the accused had seen the woman in the area, on December 31st night while drinking, they discussed how they could get close to her. After that, they carried some more liquor and food to the nearby Rajkumar park. Spending almost two hours there, they realised it was past 12 am. They went around in the area on their two-wheelers wishing people randomly. This went on till almost 2 am. The gang then decided to have fun with some random woman, but unfortunately the victim and her friend were returning home in an autorickshaw, which Chinni saw. He alerted the rest of his friends, especially Leno, as he was infatuated by her. All of them started challenging Leno to wish her on New Year ‘if at all he had guts’. Thereafter, they started following the autorickshaw in their two-wheelers. The autorickshaw stopped at the corner of the road on 5th main Kammanahalli. The victim’s friend left the place after which she paid the driver and started walking alone on the empty dark road.
 
 Sudesh, Somashekar and two others at large, went ahead the autorickshaw without stopping as the driver was present. They came back to the corner and stopped monitoring the victim. Signals were passed on to Leno who immediately sped on his scooter towards the woman. However, he was scared to approach her, but Aiyappa sarcastically told him he would show him how a woman was to be greeted. The rest is visible in the footage.
 
 
 
 
 After Francis gave the footage to the police, the police registered an FIR and started analysing the video with the help of Cyber Crime experts. The very first thing the police learnt by seeing the footage was the fact that the molesters were locals as they were seen moving around without any confusion.
 
 Once they suspected the molesters were locals, they analysed the earlier footage at Francis’s house. They noticed that on the same day in the morning, a similar scooter passed on the same road. Police now went on tracking CCTVs installed in the area. The major breakthrough came through the footage. Four camera shots showed the movements of the same scooter on another road, but in this case, a face was visible. Then the local crime police went around collecting information about these youths, especially Chinni, whose face was visible. On interrogating him, they zeroed in on three others.
 
 When the news of this molestation was being flashed by the media, these youths started pancking and tried to erase every possible evidence that would give them away. They also planned to leave the state for some time.
 
 The team headed by additional commissioner of police (East) Hemant Nimbalkar, deputy commissioners Ajai Hillori and PS Harsha, and their men nabbed the miscreants. The arrested were produced before the magistrate on Thursday night and remanded in judicial custody till January 10.
 
 ***************
 
 Name: Aiyappa alias Nitish Kumar
 Age: 19
 Proffession: Food delivery boy
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 Aiyappa is an ITI dropout, and stays with his parents in Kammanahalli. He works for a leading app-based food delivery firm. He is the main accused (No 1) in the case as he is the one who groped the woman, kissed her and dragged her to his friend sitting on the scooter. Before he joined the food delivery job, Aiyappa was a vagabond who used to hang around with friends and pass lewd comments on women walking around in the area.
 
 
 Name: Leno alias Lenin Patrick
 Age: 20
 Proffession: Food delivery boy
 
 
  
  
 What he did
 
 Leno Is a B Com dropout, and when he was studying in a private college, he got into bad company. He too stays with his parents. He works as a delivery boy for the same app-based delivery firm where Aiyappa is working. He is the one who was riding the scooter (in the footage) while Aiyappa was riding pillion. Aiyappa molested the woman, while Leno asked him to drag her to him so that he could also molest her.
 
 
 Name : Sudhesh alias Sudhi
 Age: 20
 Proffession: Delivery boy
 
 
  
  
 What he did
 
 Sudhesh too is a delivery boy with the same firm. He is an eighth standard dropout and stays with his parents. He was waiting with his three other friends on the two-wheeler watching Aiyappa and Leno molesting the woman.
 
 Name : Somashekar alias Chinni
 Age: 24
 Proffession; Goods carrying vehicle driver
 
 
  
  
 What he did
 
 Somashekar is a 10th standard dropout working as a goods vehicle driver and stays near the victim’s friend’s house with his parents. He was the one who saw the victim for the first time in the area. Also, he is the one who spotted the woman returning home after a New Year party and hatched a plan to molest her.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Jayant Iyer I guess this will shut the morons up who said they must be from the north of India and ask the migrants to get out of Bangalore. #Shameonyou
 
 (Mohammed Izaar) Does not matter if its north indian or south indian, We are Indians!! and these kind of people have to be slippered or lashed in the public till they smell there rotten asses.
 
 Suvin V S Guys, don’t pull language, region, or any other factors into this. The act done by the accused are bad. All are under police custody as of now. Let the law take care of the rest. And the citizens themselves should purify. Then places will be safer for everyone to have a good living.
 
 Karthick Paul Crime is bad, hook them up or cut the nerves of their legs. Let them not dream of any girl in their life. I’m from Bangalore and I would not have let this happen if I was at the spot of this incident. Sad for the poor girl.
 
 Masood Shariff Police sources say Leno has confessed to the assault and claimed to be drunk that night. So alcohol is the major cause for the crimes Let’s ban alcohol in Bangalore.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 IPC section 354 (A)
 Punishment for sexual harassment- A man makes physical contact and advances involving unwelcome and explicit sexual overtures.
 
 IPC section 354 (B)
 Assault or use of criminal force to woman with intent to disrobe
 
 IPC section 341
 Punishment for wrongful restraint.
 
 IPC section 34
 Acts done by several persons in common intention
 
 ************************
 
 * N Ramani Iyer ?@Ramani_Iyer
 Does this means outsiders from Karnataka are behaving like this. Home Minister Sir??
 
 * Sonu Somaraj ? @Raj00Seven 
 @hasyagarvarad @Bangaloremirror Because it happened in Bangalore. Call a spade a spade. Your wife could be next. So act !?!!!
 
 * Shanti ? @smpais12
 @Bangaloremirror #NIghtofShame -Bangalore in bad light, in today’s meeting my UK based clients asking how safe Bangalore is for women!!
 
 * Manasa Venkatesh ?@Manas_Ven katesh @Bangaloremirror That’s no excuse! It takes common sense to differentiate right & wrong.Police have failed to protect young women of the city!
 
 * Manas Tiwari ?@ManaswithWP
 I as a Bangalorean, and I am ashamed today. If @BlrCityPolice cannot ensure the basic safety of citizens, they should state the same. #shame
 
 * Anand Shukla ?@ca_arshukla 
 @kiranshaw It’s been happening every new year on Brgd rd, police were waiting for a yr like this to wake up and act.
 
