NEW DELHI: The intrusion into Bhutanese territory gave Chinese troops a vantage point with a line of sight to Siliguri, requiring urgent action by Indian troops to stall the road construction, the government told opposition leaders on Saturday. The second round of meeting between government and opposition leaders saw leaders from the northeast urge the Centre to take up refurbishing and building of infrastructure in the region on priority.

 The presentation on the stand-off between Indian and Chinese troops near the Sikkim-Tibet-Bhutan trijunction pointed out the strategic importance of the position China was seeking to establish. The briefing by external affairs minister   saw her reiterating that India is committed to a peaceful and diplomatic resolution to the crisis that has seen some heated words emanate out of Beijing.
 
 The ground covered was similar to the discussions with 19 political parties held on Friday and political parties again endorsed the Indian response to China’s attempt to alter the ground realities in a unilateral manner.
 
 RSP leader N K Premchandran is understood to have observed that maintaining good relations with neighbours was more important that pursuing ties with far off countries, a hint at PM Narendra Modi’s recent visit to Israel. CPI leader D Raja also pointed to the need to resolve disputes with China peacefully.
 
 The attack on Amarnath yatris also came up for discussion and defence minister Arun Jaitley pointed out that the bus the pilgrims were travelling in was delayed by punctures and eventually proceeded without escort.
 
 Along with Raja and Premchandran, former PM and JD (S) leader H D Deve Gowda and MPs from the north-east attended Saturday’s briefing. Two MPs of Sikkim Democratic Front, NPP leader Conrad Sangama and an   MP were also present.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Raja said, “We told the government that it is against the interest of both India and China to have strained relations and that talks are imperative to end the impasse. Ialso said that India has signed the Shanghai cooperation agreement and the 1993 border peace and tranquility accord and that it is in the larger economic interests of both nations to settle any issues through dialogue.”
 
 The demand for Gorkhaland is also learnt to have come up for discussion. Jaitley said the government had taken several steps to strengthen the border infrastructure.
 
 
