LUDHIANA: The appointment of a Ludhiana-born woman as the   of a   in the   has sent her family into a celebration mode.

 Chandrika J Bhalla, born to Manjula Jain of Rani Jhansi Road, has been selected as new senior vice-president and chief financial officer of Kaiser Permanente,  . Kaiser Permanente is recognised as one of America’s leading healthcare providers and not-for-profit health plans organisation. It serves 4.1 million members and is one of the larger markets in nationwide organisation that generated $64.6 billion in operating revenue in 2016.
 
 Talking to The Times of India, Manjula Jain, mother of Chandrika, said, “My daughter had given me a hint three to four weeks ago that something big was coming to her. A few days ago, she called me around midnight and broke the news. I was elated to hear it and am thankful to God for such a wonderful achievement of my daughter. It is a proud moment for not only Ludhiana, but for the country as well that she will be handling the finances of a company that has more than 120 hospitals in the United States and an annual revenue of more than $30 billion. I always knew it that she will make it big one day.”
 
 Jain said her daughter lives in the US with her husband and two sons, but has maintained links with Ludhiana. She might visit India next year, as this year she and her father were going there, she added.
 
 Chandrika said, “I am very thankful that I have such a supportive family and background that helped me rise. No doubt hard work pays. It is a responsibility I am confident of taking in my stride with God’s help and everyone’s support. I pray for success. I am rooted to Indian culture, celebrate Diwali and Holi and have an open mind to adapt to things.”
 
 City industrialist Mridula Jain, who is the maternal aunt of Chandrika, was also all praise for the achievement. “It is great news for me as my niece has achieved something remarkable in the US. It is an honour for us,” she said. 
 
 Chandrika did pre-engineering from Government College for Women, Ludhiana, and later pursued electrical engineering from Chandigarh College of Engineering. She moved to the USA in August 1990 after marrying  , an energy efficiency consultant. She has two sons, Arnav and Samin, who are high school students.
 
 
