MOTIHARI: The   (UDMF) on Wednesday relaunched its movement in all the terai districts of Nepal after the government on Tuesday announced the local bodies’ election to be held on May 14. The election date was decided in the cabinet meeting presided over by  .

 The Nepal government has decided to hold the single phase election despite protests from Madhes-based parties and UDMF. They have been demanding an amendment to the constitution on 11 issues, including reorganization of state boundaries prior to the local body election. It may be recalled that UDMF had lifted its five months’ long blockade at Maitri bridge on Raxaul-Birgunj border on February 5, 2016.
 
 The deadlock continued on Wednesday as the meeting between the ruling alliance and UDMF ended without reaching any conclusion. Sources in Nepal said UDMF cadres took to the streets in protest against the election announcement. Hundreds of UDMF supporters took out a rally at Birgunj in Parsa district and burned the effigy of PM Dahal at Ghanta Ghar roundabout on Wednesday. “The protesters vandalized the municipal corporation office at Rajbiraj and locked several other government offices after pelting stones. Life in Saptari and Siraha districts was badly hit by the bandh called by UDMF on Wednesday. No vehicle, except a few two-wheelers, was seen plying on the road. Educational institutions, factories and markets also remained shut,” the sources said.
 
 Over half a dozen UDMF men were injured in a clash with CPN-UML cadres at Janakpur under Dhanusha district. According to Dhanusha police control room, UDMF and UML cadres pelted stones at each other during the scuffle.
 
 Tarai Madhes Loktantrik Morcha president Parmeshwar Sahu said the   of Nepal (UNL) cadres rounded them up and brutally thrashed them with hard objects during their protest. Tension prevailed in the area after the clash.
 
 The UDMF protesters paraded on the roads in Parsa, Bara, Rautahat, Saptari, Sirha and other terai districts and shouted slogans against CPN-UML and the government.
 
 Sadbhawana Party president and UDMF member Rajendra Mahato said they would not take part in the local bodies’ election. The amendment bill has been registered in Nepal parliament and it must be tabled without delay as was assured by PM Dahal, he said.
 
