CHENNAI: Nearly 800 children who live in orphanages despite having a family can now stay with their parents as the state government is set to expand its   programme. 

 For the last two months, the   has been undertaking a needs assessment across the state to identify children in need of care and protection who can stay with their families with financial backing from the government. At present, under the sponsorship programme, the department gives Rs 2,000 per month to around 1,500 children. The demand, however, is much more. "We are trying to identify 24 more children in every district who could be eligible for the scheme," said R Lalvena, commissioner, Social Defence.
 
 The department gets around Rs 10lakh per district annually from the Centre and the state government, which is insufficient. "Every year, we have parents pleading with us to help them. But we have enough just to sponsor 40 children," said Sheila Charles Manohar, a member of   (CWC), Chennai. The demand, she said, is highest during school admission time. "Most of these couples end up abandoning the child out of desperation," she said. 
 
 Officials will now expand the programme by tapping flexi-funds provided by the Centre under the Integrated Child Protection Scheme (ICPS). Under the scheme, the state gets around Rs 9 crore to be spent on any innovation that is in line with the overall aim of the programme. "We are planning to use around Rs 6 crore for sponsoring children. The remaining will be used for campaign materials to create awareness on alternatives for   like   and  ," said an official. 
 
 In the needs survey conducted so far, officials say most of the children they identified hail from Tiruvallur, Tiruppur, Coimbatore and Chennai, which see a lot of migrant population. 
 
 Under the new Tamil Nadu Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) rules, 2017, the district child protection units are tasked with identifying families and providing necessary support services in the form of sponsorship for the child’s education, health, nutrition and other developmental needs as an alternative to institutionalization. 
 
 Girija Kumarbabu, honorary general secretary of Indian Council for Child Welfare, said officials have to be careful when they choose families. "The money can’t be given to anyone who’s poor. It should be given to children who are in a vulnerable state like those pushed into labour as their families can’t take care of them," she said, adding that the incentive should be given on a regular basis. 
 
 Experts say at least 97% of the children in the state's orphanages have either a single parent or both parents or a near relative unable to take care of them, many owing to financial reasons.
 
 Andrew Sesuraj, convener, Tamil Nadu Child Rights Observatory, said the state should rope in NGOs and create a database of sponsors and children in need of care and protection who need the money. "The government should try tapping the CSR funds of corporate companies too. This will be one more step towards ensuring every child has a home," he said. 
 
