CHENNAI: After flattening the   (Metrowater)-controlled Villivakkam-Konnur Lake with debris,   agencies assured the Madras high court that it would restore 70% of the water body.

 The municipal administration and water supply department told the court that Greater Chennai Corporation will convert 27.5 acres of the 39 acre area into a lake with a minor park and construct footpaths around the water body .
 
 The corporation has requested the Tamil Nadu Urban Infrastructure Financial Services Ltd (TNUIFSL) to appoint a consultant for a detailed project report to “recharge the existing pond by facilitating entry and exit points of water and formation of walkways and islands on the pond to provide overall support to the entire ecosystem“ TOI had reported (Metro turns lake into dumping yard, December 12, 2016) that the lake was in an abysmal state and in urgent need of repair.
 
 The department made these submissions in a court counter-affidavit in response to a public interest litigation filed by NGO Arappor Iyakkam convenor Jayaram Venkatesan.
 
 The case came up for hearing on February 13 after a twojudge bench had in December asked the respondents to file counters.
 
 The state government, Metrowater, CMRL, the corporation and the water supply department are respondents in the case.
 
 The corporation has also made joint inspections with Metrowater before they received the go-ahead signal for the rejuvenation plan, officials said.
 
 The remaining part of the water body will be used by Metrowater for future expansion of its sewage management activities. It informed the court that it will not discharge any effluent into the area once they commission a relay pumping station.
 
 In his petition, Jayaram had stated that the water body is critical in recharging groundwater and preventing floods in the neighbourhood, but it has dwindled in size considerably over the past few decades. From a size of 214 acres (see Survey of India maps from 1972), the water body has shrunk to 39 acres, Jayaram said.
 
 The Sidco industrial estate and the Sidco Nagar residential locality have come right on the lake bed, the petition stated. Arappor submitted that inaction and possible corruption by officials of various agencies had contributed to the destruction of the water body.
 
