THANE: After a bout of heavy   and strong winds until a few days ago,   have predicted that the next few days will see a   in the intensity of monsoon. 

 From wall and vacant building collapses to tree falls and mini landslides, the heavy showers lashing the city have caused quite a lot of destruction in the city over the past few weeks. While some residents were asked to evacuate their homes, which were in dangerous conditions, others stayed put within the safety of their four walls and away from the monsoon fury. 
 
 “Last week, we were asked to vacate our homes because the slab that covered the big nullah near our house collapsed, thus blocking our access way. We had to move to a relative’s house temporarily,” said a resident of Lokmanya Nagar slum tenement.
 
 Meanwhile, Prajakta Kusurkar, a Kolshet-based housewife, said, “I had planned a number of outings over the past few weeks, including theatre play and cooking class. However, after reading about the series of deaths and injuries due to tree falls and slippery road-led accidents, I decided to stay put at home. I even ordered groceries at home using a mobile application.”
 
 Over the past five days, however, the number of these incidents has reduced as the city has been receiving merely five to 13mm rainfall through the day. 
 
 Meteorologists pointed out that these conditions will prevail for the next eight to 10 days.
 
 “The offshore trough which was moving towards Kerala and Goa from Gujarat and the low atmospheric pressure over Gujarat were the key factors for the heavy rains over the past few weeks. However, these meteorological factors have weakened over the past few days, causing a drop in the rainfall and wind. This situation will persist over the next week-and-half and Thane will see short and scattered bursts of showers during this period,” said Mahesh Palawat, chief meteorologist at skymetweather, a private company that provides weather  . 
 
 Civic officials asserted that these short rain spells could reduce water logging incidents in the city. 
 
 “As Thane is a coastal city, with a creek running by, any continuous rainfall above 50mm during the day could result in the flooding of low lying areas. If there is a high tide at the same time, these pockets could get flooded with as low as 35mm rainfall at a stretch. The short bouts of rainfall could ease the chances of these instances this week,” said Santosh Kadam, disaster management officer at the Regional Disaster Management Cell.
 
