PANAJI: The Archdiocese of Goa and   has stated in a press note that it is in “no way involved in the selection process of any candidate of any political party or in the drawing up of party strategies, as it is being made to appear.”
 
  The Church went on to state that it was truly regrettable that a well-known politician should accuse Church authorities of opposing his nomination. While no politician was named, the reference was allegedly to former power minister Aleixo Sequeira.
  
  Last week, Sequeira announced his retirement from state politics attributing his decision to "the stand taken by the Church (in Goa) to oppose his candidature" for the 2017 assembly elections.
  
  “The Church is objecting (to my candidature) tooth and nail. This was disclosed to me by senior leaders of the   (AICC) and my well-wishers. It's shocking and surprising,” Sequeira said.
  
  Director, diocesan centre for social communications and media (DCSCM), Fr Olavo Caiado said the statement is issued as “some misleading and mischievous reports, statements and comments have been appearing in the print, electronic and social media with regard to the alleged involvement of the   authorities in local politics, particularly in view of the forthcoming assembly elections in Goa”.
  
  Caiado reiterated that the Catholic Church authorities in Goa are deeply concerned about the well-being of the population of this state and the various dimensions of its life, including the socio-political dimension.
  
  The Catholic Church in Goa has “once again taken up their duty-bound task of guiding Catholics and people of goodwill on how to exercise their franchise according to their conscience during the forthcoming elections to the legislative assembly, without, however, promoting any particular candidate or political party” the statement reads.
  
  Catholic priests have always been advised not to use the Church platform to promote a candidate or party, the Church has stated, adding, “Nothing, however, impedes them from revealing to others whom they are personally going to vote for, and why. Such disclosures will always remain personal and are not to be taken as the official position of the Church.”
  
  The Church also denied the “wild and malicious accusation” that the archbishop had convened a meeting of some highly placed political leaders to plan out strategies against the leader of a certain, recently formed, political party. The date of the alleged meeting-cum-dinner was November 20 when the archbishop was in Kerala on an official engagement, the Church has stated.
