SAIFAI (ETAWAH): While locals of Chaugurji (Etawah) celebrated victory of Shivpal Singh Yadav, the sibling of  's patriarch, an eerie silence descended at Saifai---the native place of Yadav clan after the team Akhilesh was annihilated.

 As TV sets started airing the leads, there was an atmosphere of excitement and anticipation for the result as Saifai folks, mostly SP supporters, went around early attending daily chores before finally getting down to watch the election bulletin, but within an hour, the trends reversed and slowly and steadily the BJP and its allies pulled through.
 
 “We are pained over the margin. The party has never performed so badly when it was under the leadership of 'netaji' ( ). We agree that it was an anti-incumbency wave, but even then we were expecting that SP-Congress combine will get between 125 to 150 seats“, said  , an ardent SP supporter.
 
 As he was venting out his frustration, another party worker soon came with the news that CM is going to meet the governor pat came his reply “Lo, ab yahi sunna baki rah gaya tha“. The defeat was all the more humiliating because the party had even lost Etawah Sadar which has been considered a stronghold of Yadavs.
 
 There was a grudging admiration for   in political discussions taking place at paan shops, eatery outlets and tea stalls as the Saifai streets, which were supposed to be filled with supporters celebrating, remained deserted after the results. “It is really disappointing how the team Akhilesh and Rahul has let us down today. I just feel so bad for supporters who worked hard for their success,“ Anugrah Yadav, another local said.
 
 Several elderlies wasted no time in highlighting the mistakes committed by the CM, particularly when he had replaced himself with his father, the SP patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav. These feelings were echoed by Baijnath who runs a tea kiosk near Block office in Saifai.
 
 “Chalo abhi   baqi hai and if we convince people well we can still beat BJP in the final,“ an ever optimistic Baijnath said while at a distance of barely 20 metre, a police picket kept guard staring lazily at the SP supremo's kothi.
 
