SURAT: Nature Club Surat ( ) and   ( ) will be jointly conducting a week-long census of house sparrows for the first time in the   from March 20 which is observed as World Sparrow Day. 

 A ‘spot your sparrow contest’ will be organized where people will have to WhatsApp the pictures of sparrows spotted in their localities along with Google location to help the NCS and the BCSG compile a data base on the population of house sparrows in the city. 
 
 Once found in huge numbers in the houses, sparrows are now a rare sight. These small birds feed on seeds and grains and take dust baths as well as water baths to clean their feathers and bodies. 
 
 The dwindling numbers of this amazing little bird is a cause of concern. The decline in the number of house sparrows indicates degradation of environment. 
 
 Snehal Patel of NCS told TOI, “The sparrow population is on the decline in the Diamond City. Thus, we have decided to carry out a week-long census, covering various parts of the city. The sparrows are not migratory birds and thus it will help us to create a base level data on their population. No census on sparrow has been carried out in Surat. This will be the first such census on sparrows.”
 
 Patel added, “Many reasons have been given for the decline of sparrows including loss of habitat, lack of food and electromagnetic radiations from mobile towers etc. Conservation of urban flora and fauna is significant for the health of people in cities.” 
 
 He said the NCS and the BCSG have urged the citizens of the city to help minimize the threats to house sparrows and to do their bit to bring them back. In order to conserve the birds, it is important to sensitize children in schools by organizing programmes like ‘nest making competition’ for them. 
 
 NCS members said residents will be given scientifically designed bird feeders, which prevent spillage and keep grains clean as well as sparrow nests, which are suitable only for sparrows, thus minimizing competitions for nests from birds like mynah, babblers or robins.
 
