BHOPAL: Madhya Pradesh chief minister   ordered an inquiry into the Bhopal-Ujjain passenger train blast in Shajapur district on Tuesday besides announcing ex-gratia relief to the injured in the blast.

 The state government has not ruled out possibility of involvement of a terror outfit in the incident in which nine persons were injured, two of them seriously. 
 
 The government has announced a compensation of Rs 50,000 each to critically injured and Rs 25,000 each to other injured passengers in the train. The chief minister has asked director general of police (DGP) R K Shukla, forensic experts, and officials of the Special Task Force (STF) and   (ATS) to inquire into the blast. 
 
 “My sympathies with the people injured in Ujjain-Bhopal passenger train. I pray to god for early recovery of the injured passengers'', tweeted chief minister Chouhan immediate after knowing about the accident.
 
 ``District collector and superintendent of police have reached the spot and ATS and forensic teams were investigating the reasons behind the explosion under the supervision of director general of police (DGP) of the state. I am also keeping any eye on the situation'', said Chouhan in a series of tweets.
 
 Meanwhile, the state home minister Bhupendra Singh has said that a meeting of inspector general of police level officers has been convened at the police headquarters after the train blast in Shajapur. The minister also did not rule out hand of any terror outfit in the incident.
 
 ``We cannot say clearly about the mishap as probe is underway. DGP R K Shukla and additional DG (Intelligence) have reached the spot. We will get details of the incident after the investigation'', said Bhupendra Singh while talking to reporters in the state assembly.
 
 “Prima facie it was found that there was gun power smell in the area after the blast which raises doubts. But, as banned   activists were once active in Ujjain and nearby areas, we cannot rule out hand of a terrorist outfit or a mischief in the entire incident,” said the home minister.
 
