NEW  :   announced its first list of 25   on Wednesday, with 11   going to women aspirants. At least 16 of the candidates were part of the Anna Hazare-led India Against Corruption (IAC) movement.

 The Yogendra Yadav-led party, which will make its electoral debut, promises a ‘Clean Delhi’ as its top priority, which starts with a “transparent candidate selection process”. Members said efforts had been made to select people who had genuinely worked for an area.
 
 Most of the 16 IAC members had joined   when it was formed after the Lokpal movement but later shifted to Swaraj India. One of them, Dimple Solanki, was a member of the AAP national council and in-charge of Matiala assembly constituency, said Swaraj India. Solanki has been fielded from Matiala ward. Some other prominent IAC members to feature on the list are Iqbal Siddiqui (Govindpuri), Rukhsar (Tughlaqbad Extension), Upasna (Palam) and Sarvesh Verma (Paharganj). 
 
 “We have given tickets to women even on non-reserved seats,” said spokesperson Anupam. The party has even considered people who were originally not part of it. Dilip Koli, a contractual corporation employee who will contest from Kotla Mubarakpur, is one such candidate. Sources said Koli had played a crucial role in the protest against liquor vends. “He was not part of our party then, but he had done a good job in the area,” said Ajit Jha, general secretary. Manav, fielded from Patparganj, has also been picked for his fight for the rights of residents of Samaspur village and Pandav Nagar.
 
 The list also includes Prince and Satyendra Rana from Congress. The party has also decided to field Kalpana Jha, an independent councillor from Sangam Vihar, from the same ward.
 
 The candidates have a varied educational background starting from a Class IV dropout to a dentist to a management graduate from FMS. Most of them are aged between 35 and 40 years. Of the 25 candidates, 10 will contest in the north corporation, 12 in the south and three in the east corporation. 
 
 The rest of the candidates will be announced soon so that they get adequate time to prepare for the elections, likely to be held in April.
 
