NAGPUR: Coming to the rescue of two aged property owners, the Nagpur bench of   asked their tenants to vacate the shop located at   and also imposed a fine of Rs25,000 on them.

 A single judge bench of Justice Ravi Deshpande further directed the executing court that if the execution suit was filed, it should ensure the decree for demolition of shop was executed within a month.
 
 Petitioners — Zarina (70) and Kamarbano (66)-- both daughters of Late  , staying at Sammiullah Khan Marg, Sadar, moved the HC challenging lower appellate court’s decision that had reversed trial court’s order of demolition of Shop No 1, located on their premises.
 
 The shop —   — was run by respondents Mohankumar and Parmeshwardayal, both sons of Kanhaiyyalal Sharma.
 
 According to petitioners’ counsel Masood Shareef, both the landladies were staying on the second floor of the building and wanted to occupy the rear portion of shop blocks on the ground floor. They stated they wanted to create ingress and egress along with a space for parking of vehicles, and for convenient use of rear portion for residence.
 
 The petitioners filed two separate cases against tenants — Shop No 1 belonging to Sharmas and Shop No 2. In earlier case, regarding Shop No 2, the high court set aside the appellate court’s decision and restored the decree of eviction passed by the trial court. 
 
 The appellate court held that Modern Scientific Company was a partnership concern, which later became proprietary concern. However, Justice Deshpande clarified there was nothing on record to show that partnership firm was registered. “In view of finding recorded by trial court that respondent is a proprietor and it’s the business of proprietary concern, I don’t find its decree was liable to be set aside on any such ground,” he said. 
 
 He added that since the dispute involved was similar to earlier one already decided by the high court, the reasons recorded in that case would be applicable in this case as well, as findings of both trial and appellate courts were almost similar.
 
 The judge further noted there was no suppression by the petitioners in this regard. “The question of plaintiffs already having a way to approach the rear side is also not in dispute, as they were using it to approach the staircase for climbing the second floor. This court has already taken a view in earlier case that the landladies established bona fide need and appellate court committed an error in holding it was their mere desire. In view of this, the findings recorded by appellate court need to be set aside and decree passed by trial court needs to be restored,” Justice Deshpande stated before allowing the plea.
 
