Shaping a work around the theme of   and its many tentacles is a bit like shaping a lump of rigid clay into something cohesive and stable. On one hand, excessive pressure on misery squashes the vein of the narrative and on the other, a voice too rebellious, hollows out the inherent pain of its victims. Drawing a line which does justice to this divide is certainly not an easy task and that is precisely where author Colson Whitehead shines.
 
    is an allegorical tale, spoken through the life and times of Cora. Her grandmother, Ajarry, from Western Africa, was a worker on the sprawling Randall plantation in Georgia. Ajarry passed on the tarnished legacy to her daughter, Mabel and granddaughter, Cora. Slave owners measure their success in the amount of tyranny they exert and Randall was not the one to walk against the league. However, 16-year-old Cora was made of sterner stuff than most around her and harboured a burning desire to break free. One fateful night, she manages to escape with a compatriot, Caesar and makes her way to the underground railway station where a train promises to scoop them away from the hell. And thus, begins her relationship with the unending maze of underground railroads that remains faithful to her survival till the last page of this book.
  
  Whitehead draws a riveting picture of the slavery regime, with his nuanced characterization and feisty story-telling. The image of Cora is an amalgamation of the bright and subdued. Her character grows in tune with her undulating escapes and captures. Even as she understands that she would be hunted down, she dreams of being a housewife. Whitehead takes extra care to keep Cora as a normal woman with not-so-normal scars. As the adult Cora begins a new life in South Carolina under a false name, Bessie, between her chains and freedom, stands her fate and the perilous slave-catcher, Ridgeway.
  
  Ridgeway is fascinating in his ambition. He pursues Cora like a trained police dog and licks his lips in malice at her capture from a Stationmaster’s house. He also takes an orphan under his refuge and grants him a decent life of an account keeper for him. This dual character of his makes him a human and a pariah in a strange, stinging way.
  
  Whitehead understands that secondary characters lift the statement being made by the protagonist to greater heights and thus, etches his with great tact. His terse descriptions of the slave camp in conversations of its inhabitants are a subtle way of expressing their acceptance. From the apprehensions hanging thick in the air in the houses of those who shelter Cora, to the womanly advice that comes in the dormitory Cora resides in as Bessie, the right note of tension is released into the narrative to reflect the constantly alert mind of Cora. As the book says, “Whether in the fields or underground or in an attic room, America remained her warden.”
  
  This book is a hard-hitting tale of physical, social and psychological wounds that slavery inflicts. In a way, it's an appeal to stop the pursuit which has only taken a more refined and sophisticated garb in the current times.
  
  (Written by: Seemita Das) 
