PUNE: Women teachers in the city have raised objections to being appointed as presiding officers at   during the civic elections. Their primary concern is safety as they have to report to designated stations a day before the polling day and are expected to spend the night at the voting stations.

 They also raised the issue of a lack of facilities for an overnight stay at these polling stations. Election officials, however, said that a shortage of manpower has forced them to appoint a few women as presiding officers in urban areas. They said they were also in talks with the commission to exempt them from night duties.
 
 Many schools in the core city areas of Pune have received letters from election officials assigning teachers the role of presiding officers. At least 18-20 teachers from each school have received letters, school authorities said. Teachers of a reputed state board school wrote to the election officials requesting them to make changes in the duties. A senior teacher said, “We do not object to doing poll duty even though portions need to be completed before exams, but staying overnight at poll stations is a big challenge forus.“ Raosaheb Awari, founder of the All India secondary and higher secondary school principals association said, “We have received complaints from many teachers regarding these appointments. Asking women teachers to stay overnight at the polling station is an impossible expectation. Safety and securi ty of the women teachers should be the top most priority.“
 
 Awari said the facilities at the polling stations is poor and most security guards are male so women would feel uncomfortable and unsafe at night.
 
 Though the rulebook does not say that the women staff should not be assigned the job of presiding officers (POs), according to election officials, the election machinery had made this an unwritten precedent on its own. The aim was to make sure women officials are not be burdened with late night duties.
 
 “The situation is different during this election. There is an acute manpower crunch. The election of two municipal corporations and the   is going to take place simultaneously . This has added to the pressure and we have had to appoint some women as presiding officers,“ said  , election officer of PMC.
 
 He said handling the appointment of presiding officers in rural areas would betougher for women. “So the decision has been taken to provide women POs only in urban areas,“ he said.
 
 “In addition to that we are also in talks with election commission to give some discount to women POs when it come to night duty . They can be allowed to go home after finishing work in the evening and come back the next morning . If allowed by the commission, the male counterparts can do the election related works during the nightshift instead women POs,“ he said.
 
 Kulkarni said police officials will be stationed to guard polling booths where women officers are in-charge for additional security .
 
 TIMES VIEW
 
 Lack of basic facilities at polling centres is an issue that has been raised several times by polling officers, especially women who are deployed on election duty. Those on election duty normally have to stay overnight at polling centres. This is troublesome, particularly in rural areas. Basic amenities for lodging like decent washrooms are rarely available in schools that are usually designated as voting centres. The election staff is not allowed to step out of the centre either.The government and the election commission need to address this situation. Teachers and other government officials are expected to work as polling officers as a part of their national service, but some thought must be spared to the inconveniences they face.
 
