ed:saju

 Coimbatore: The Tirupur rural police on Saturday arrested a six-member gang for   a tipper   worth Rs 22 lakh from Dharapuram.
 
 The arrested were identified as P Mahendran from Thalakarai in Dharapuram, R Nallur Sevagan from Mannargudi, S Vignesh from Ammapatti near Dharapuram, G Balamurugan from Surakkapuram in Thiruvarur, G Navaneetha Krishnan from Dharapuram and G Santhanam from Tiruchuli in Virudhunagar district.
 
 Police said Nallur Sevagan was earlier convicted for stealing a truck and was lodged at the Coimbatore Central Prison. “Vignesh, who was involved in the kidnapping of a minor girl, was also lodged at the prison. Rest of the arrested men were friends of Sevagan and Vignesh. Mahendran was working as an acting tipper truck driver at Dharapuram. With the help of Sevagan, the gang hatched a conspiracy and stole the truck,” a police officer said.
 
 The truck is owned by P Ravichandran of Gandhi Nagar at Dharapuram in Tirupur district, a contractor of the state highways department. “He owns six tipper trucks and used for them for carrying materials for road construction. His drivers used to park the trucks on an open ground near Veerasundari Hollow Cricks Chamber at Dharapuram. Mahesh, driver of the stolen truck, had parked it at the spot on May 9. He found it missing on May 12 and informed Ravichandran, who approached Dharapuram police,” the officer said.
 
 Meanwhile, residents of Mukkatti in Virudhunagar district, who noticed the abandoned truck in the locality, contacted Ravichandran on the cellphone number painted on the truck’s body. Dharapuram police rushed to the place, recovered the stolen vehicle and also arrested the six-member gang.
 
 “The gang took the truck to Mukkatti village and was planning to sell for just Rs 5 lakh. However, an argument broke out among the gang members over the price and they abandoned the truck,” the officer added.
 
 Police have registered a case against the six under Section 379 (punishment for theft) of the Indian Penal Code and lodged them at the Coimbatore prison.
 
 
