MUMBAI: The Pune bench of the National Green   (NGT) on Monday admitted a plea by the non-governmental organisation Vanashakti challenging the final notification on the eco-sensitive   around Sanjay Gandhi National Park.

 Vanashakti’s plea said the final notification provided for allowance of commercial activities of widest magnitude within the zone, such as any construction provided under the approved development plan, commercial redevelopment of plots, widening and strengthening of roads, construction of roads and other infrastructure work, such as Mumbai   Rail, defeating the purpose of identifying and demarcating the zone.
 
 “The final notification allows land use conversion by permitting construction of commercial buildings, hotels and resorts, thereby allowing the metro rail car shed. The draft notification did not include the exception of 1.65 sq km created to allow for the shed. The public notification was, therefore, defective, and since the public had not been informed about the additions, the final notification is illegal and cannot be acted upon,” said the appeal.
 
 Construction of the shed was hazardous and was a red category industry, said the NGO. “There can be no exemption for a red category industry to be permitted in an   zone. Merely stating that an area is ‘excluded’ from an eco-sensitive zone does not mean that the area is not ecologically important, and that it can be ravaged under various pretexts. The proposed shed is in the zone, setting up of which is clearly contrary to the Environment Protection Act, Water Pollution Act and Supreme Court orders,” said the plea.
 
 The NGO pointed out that the final notification allowed hotels and resorts to be constructed within a km of the boundary of the protected area, which was contrary to SC guidelines.
 
 The plea pointed out that there was a conflict of interest in formulation of the monitoring committee as its chairman also issues work orders and construction permission for development projects within the zone and in the entire city of Mumbai and Thane.
 
 The NGO sought directions from the NGT for republishing a draft notification for public hearing, withdrawal of clauses allowing hazardous activity in the zone and reconstitution of the committee.
 
 
