SHIMLA: Blowing the poll bugle for the coming assembly election, Congress on Sunday held “Sankalp Rally” at Kansa Chowk in Mandi district where chief minister   praised former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee for his economic policy, while attacking Prime Minister Narendra Modi for scrapping the Planning Commission.

 While addressing the rally, Virbhadra praised Vajpayee saying he is a nationalist leader. He said that during the time of Vajpayee as Prime Minister, the Planning Commission had been functioning in an efficient manner and the economists involved therein knew about the financial needs of the states but now the scenario is opposite.
 
 He said claims of NITI Aayog to build a strong centre-states relation have failed, as states were left in lurch and not taken into confidence before the its formation. He said states should have been consulted and draft of Aayog should have been prepared according to the financial needs and topography of the states. He said that scrapping the Planning Commission overnight has halted the progress of the states to much extent.
 
 He said Vajpayee, who is his good friend, sidelined political affiliations when it comes to the development of particular region and never differentiated between states in terms of allocation of funds. 
 
 The chief minister said the BJP leaders become more impatient when elections approach and start issuing irrelevant statements trying to misguide people and adopt all sorts of tactics. He said Congress believes in secularism and does not differentiate between region and religion. 
 
 “I faced a lot of opposition from the BJP for opening educational institutions. It failed to understand that education paves the way for development,” he remarked. He cautioned to be aware of forces creating rift amongst people on basis of region and religion.
 
  president Vikramaditya Singh said language being used by former CM Prem Kumar Dhumal about the Congress does not suit his stature. He said Dhumal is well aware that it is difficult for the BJP to win the coming assembly election and blamed him of conniving with few government officials to halt the progress of development works.
 
 
