KANPUR: Setting an all time record, the day temperature touched a new high of 40.2 degrees Celsius on Thursday. It was announced to be the hottest day in March of past 44 years. 

 From 1971, the day temperature had never gone past 40 degrees. It was a rare phenomenon to witness by the Met department of CSA university which has been maintaining temperature records since 1971. The Met regarded this temperature mark to be abnormally high, not experienced ever in the month of March. Usually the day temperature in March hovers around 34 to 38 degrees. 
 
 According to the Met experts, day temperature going at its peak in March has been noticed usually at the end of the Month. The same pattern was set on Thursday when day temperature surged so high, leaving the people troubled. The Met has predicted that the temperature will surge further in the coming days and the April month could be extremely hot. 
 
 On April 5, 2016, Met department had recorded 40.2 degrees for the first time and it was then mentioned as the highest day temperature in the first week of April. In 2007, the hottest day in March was on March 31 when the day temperature had touched 39 degrees mark while on March 29, 2010, the second highest day temperature in March was 38.8 degrees followed by March 31 at 38.6 degrees. On March 30, 2010, the day temperature recorded was 38 degrees. March month of year 2010 was then tagged as the hottest. In 2008 only once - on March 29, the day temperature had touched 38 degrees mark. 
 
 Agrometerologist at CSA university, Anirudh Dubey told TOI that for the first time since 1971, the day temperature in March had crossed 40 degrees mark. He said that this was most unusual. Giving reason of regular rise in the day temperature, Dr Dubey said this was due to clear skies and the easterly winds blowing across the region. He said that the day temperature on Thursday was six degrees above normal. Meanwhile, the minimum temperature recorded on 20.6 degrees which was about four degrees above normal. However, there was a slight decline in the night temperature which was recorded at 21.8 degrees on Tuesday night, the highest night temperature of the season so far.
 
 For the city denizens it was an unusual experience. The day was extremely hot which forced the people to say indoors. During the afternoon hours, only those who had work were out. People covered their faces with masks and wore caps as protection from heat. Dusty hot winds that blew across the city added to the trouble. 
 
