NEW DELHI: Deputy chief minister   has directed   to file a contempt petition in the high court against  , claiming that it hasn’t released Delhi’s stipulated share of  . 

 Sisodia has also warned that if Haryana continues to release less water, the government may have to cut down supply to areas in central Delhi that are home to VVIPs to ensure equitable distribution of water. He has asked the LG to seek PMO’s intervention as the issue is “political”. 
 
 Earlier in the day, Sisodia held a presser and said Haryana had held back 80 MGD of Delhi’s share despite court orders. “We must go beyond politics on this issue,” he said. 
 
 A senior DJB official said Delhi needs 900 MGD, but has been running short of 50 MGD since May 8. Due to this, he said, north and central Delhi areas were affected by the shortage. Supply was severely affected in NDMC areas, including parts of President’s Estate, as production at the Chandrawal water treatment plant was hit
 
 Haryana irrigation department’s principal secretary Anurag Rastogi contested Sisodia’s claim. “Haryana has today released 1,088 cusecs of water to Delhi—705 cusecs from carrier line channel and 383 cusecs from Delhi branch. Haryana is supposed to release around 725 cusecs to Delhi every month, except for four months of monsoon when the state has to release 1,020 cusecs,” Rastogi said. 
 
 Rastogi added that due to breakage at Narwana branch near Ghaggar, between 700 and 900 cusecs of water were being supplied to Delhi over the past three days. He also said that since Haryana had additional water until 10 days ago, it was releasing additional 100-150 cusecs to Delhi; but now, its resources are under stress due to summer, additional supply was stopped in the absence of a written agreement. 
 
 “Haryana gets water from Punjab via   and supplies the same to Delhi through this branch. However, due to leakage in the canal near Ghaggar, the water level has gone down resulting in shorter supply to Delhi. The leakage has been plugged and supply has been normalised. There is no question of reducing or stopping the supply of water to Delhi,” said  , chief engineer, Haryana irrigation department.
 
 
