HYDERABAD: Next time you let your minor son drive your  , don't be surprised if you also are booked and produced in court. Soon,   are set to launch a special drive and book those driving without having a valid driving licence. Along with the offender, the person on whose name the vehicle is registered will be hauled up. Sources in the traffic wing told TOI, the date on which the special drive will be launched will be decided on Saturday.

 As per Sections 180 and 181 of   (MV Act), both driver and vehicle owner will be produced in court and are liable to three-month imprisonment or a fine of Rs 1,000 or both. Though these provisions are in Motor Vehicles Act, traffic police did not en force them. With a semblance of normalcy returning post-demonetisation, traffic police are set to launch the drive. What should unnerve vehicle owners is that if the errant vehicle is still registered in your name, then you are liable to face the music.
 
 Sources in the transport department said, there are nearly eight lakh vehicles in Hyderabad where the registration hasn't changed even after sale.
 
 “It is the responsibility of the first owner to ensure the vehicle is transferred in the name of the second owner.Also, we have given enough time to motorists for change of ownership since January 2015. Now, we will file chargesheets and they can explain their position in court,“ deputy commissioner of police (Traffic) A V Ranganath told TOI.
 
 Vehicle owners, however, will face punishment only in cases where the offence committed by the driver relates to lack of a valid licence. If a person is booked for any other offence like not wearing helmet or jumping red lights, the vehicle owner will be spared, provided the offender possesses a valid driving licence.
 
 “Maximum imprisonment for such an offence is three months and the judge may give the full term if the chargesheet includes other violations too. We are going to check every violation and this includes name of the driver and vehicle owner,“ said Ranganath.
 
 Road safety activists said police should carry out the drive continuously and not stop or slow down like the helmet campaign. In order to bring any change, such campaigns must be carried out for a long time. “What is important is sustaining special drives for a long duration, may be for two to three years, till people fall in line,“ said Vinod Kumar Kanumala, chief functionary , Indian Road Safety Federation.
 
 On Saturday, officials of Road Transport Authority (RTA) and traffic cops are slated to meet and decide on date from which this special drive will be launched.
 
