NEW DELHI: Flyers may soon get relief from paying higher charges and airfares as Supreme   has directed for resolving the issue of implementing lower tariffs within two months. Passengers have been forced to pay charges more than the tariffs fixed by a government-appointed agency at   Airport for over three years.

 “We are of the opinion that since fresh tariff order has already come into force, and ultimately the amount is also recovered from passengers at Delhi airport, this direction calls for interference. Let Airports Economic Regulatory Authority Appellate Tribunal (AERAAT) decide the appeal filed by the respondent (DIAL) within a period two months from today,” a Bench of Justices Arun Mishra and Amitava Roy ordered on Monday in a petition filed by Air India against DIAL.
 
 Airports Economic Regulatory Authority (AERA) had in December 2015 slashed Delhi   charges by a steep 96% for the period April 1, 2014 to March 31, 2019 (called second control period). This should have resulted in a sharp drop in airline charges, thereby significantly lowering fares. But DIAL continues to charge the higher tariff that AERA had approved for April 1, 2009 to March 31, 2014 (first control period) by taking legal recourse for not implementing the lower tariff order.
 
 “The Supreme Court has directed implementation of the second tariff order dated December 8, 2015.   has also directed the appellate tribunal to decide the tariff appeals filed by the company, preferably within two months from the date of the order. DIAL will work expeditiously with the appellate tribunal to reach a fair and positive outcome,” said a DIAL spokesperson.
 
 No airline has officially given the percentage of expected fare cuts if DIAL implements the lower charges. However, a senior official of a private carrier on the condition of anonymity said, “There will be significant reduction in fares for flights originating from Delhi. The airport user charges should either go completely or be reduced sharply.”
 
 AERA, which had moved AERAAT over DIAL levying higher charges a few months ago, said in its petition: “Under the second tariff order, the target revenue to be recovered by the appellant is Rs 7,709.61 crore and the aeronautical tariff has been fixed on that basis. However, from April 1, 2014 to June 30, 2016 the appellant (DIAL) has already earned revenue of Rs 7,257.15 crore, which is about 94.13% of the target revenue for the second control period.”
 
 “The appellant is currently recovering Rs 300 crore (approx) per month. By the end of the second control period (March 2019), there will be a total collection of Rs 17,157.15 crore as against the target revenue of Rs 7,709.61 crore to be recovered by the appellant. This means there will be an excess collection of Rs 9,447.54 crore over and above the target revenue,” AERA’s petition said.
 
 The regulatory agency had warned that it will not be possible to get this excess amount refunded to passengers, thereby creating an “irreversible and uncontrollable situation”. Due to delay in AERAAT deciding on the AERA plea, Air India on January 24, 2017 filed a special leave petition in SC.
 
 
