GHAZIABAD: A senior pathologist has written a letter to the state government against the chief medical superintendent of MMG Hospital,  , after opting for VRS, accusing him of mental, financial and administrative  . Dr Pragya Prasad has alleged that the   deputed her to the emergency ward and the autopsy ward, which is against her specialisation, and even deducted her pay for taking offs under casual leaves.

 “Patients who are admitted to emergency for scuffles and accidents need urgent first aid and cure, and are examined for further treatment for which I am completely ill-equipped and inexperienced to handle. In my entire career, I have never been appointed in the above-mentioned departments and have no knowledge of it, and at this age in my life, I have no interest to learn them as well because if something went wrong with the patient, who will be responsible for it?” the 53-year-old doctor wrote to the state health secretary on Friday.
 
 “The administration appointed me to the post of joint director, pathology, whose specialisation is related to diagnosis and not to cure,” she wrote.
 
 However, CMS Dr JK Tyagi has denied the allegations. “Her duty was never in the postmortem ward like she has mentioned in the letter and she is lying. She was deputed to the emergency ward like all other senior doctors are deputed. The minimum qualification for a person to work in the emergency ward is M.B.B.S and she is an M.B.B.S. Hence, she can work,” he told TOI.
 
 Citing instances between October 2015 and June 2016, Dr Prasad also accused the CMS of deducting her pay for taking casual leaves, despite completing all leave-related formalities. In her letter, Dr Prasad has asked the state health department to relieve her of her duties and has even threatened to kill herself if she is forced to work under Dr Tyagi.
 
 “He has been troubling my wife ever since she joined the hospital five years ago. There is a case going on in the Allahabad HC in this matter and so he developed hatred towards her. The court had asked him to prepare a roaster for duties. He had a personal hearing in the court on Saturday and on Friday, the CMS appointed my wife to the emeregncy ward,” said Dr Rajendra Prasad, the husband of the complainant.
 
 “Not just me, but she has had a history of trouble with every CMS in this hospital and she has levelled similar charges against them as well. She has not submitted documents for casual leave so far and she has wrongly written in the letter that her casual leaves were approved. She has always created trouble and has failed to work in cooperation with anyone around her. She even takes uninformed leaves very often and doesn’t follow orders of her seniors,” Dr Tyagi said.
 
 
