KOLKATA: Union finance minister   is likely to attend the third edition of the Bengal   Summit and share the stage with chief minister  , despite her ongoing tirade against Prime Minister Narendra Modi on demonetisation and the current CBI action against her own party bigwigs.

 While none agreed to come on record, senior industry department officers associated with the event said an invite had been sent to the Union finance minister, and if all goes well, Jaitley would attend the plenary session of the meet.
 
 It may be mentioned that while taking on PM Modi over demonetisation, Banerjee had last week mooted a national government under the leadership of BJP veteran LK Advani, Jaitley and home minister Rajnath Singh. If the Union finance minister attends the event, it will be his third appearance in the state's flagship business summit in as many years.
 
 This year, the event will be held between January 19 and 21 on the the Milan Mela grounds. It will be inaugurated by President  . It is learnt that state industry secretary Krishna Gupta has invited all the leading chambers and industrialists on Saturday to discuss details about BGBS and to assess their participation.
 
 After the Plenary Session on January 20, there will be a special session on startup this year. The focus sectors of the third edition will be maritime, inland waterways, transport, manufacturing, food processing, horticulture, fisheries, agro and allied industries, auto and auto ancillary , health, education, IT & ITeS, financial services and tourism.
 
 On Thursday , a state government official said that despite demonetisation, it is expecting a good response in BGBS because the economic indicator of the state is good now. “West Bengal recorded a 12.02% real growth in terms of GVA in 2015-16 and the industry sector of the state observed a growth rate of 10.59% in 2015-16.
 
 The state has moved up in `ease of doing business' and there is a concerted effort to project West Bengal as the preferred investment destination through plethora of industry-friendly policies,“ he added. The state is portraying new territories with Bhor Sagar Deep Sea Port coming up at Sagar Island, proposed minor private ports. The Amritsar-Delhi-Kolkata Industrial Corridor will come up with Central assistance.
 
