NAGPUR: Emphasising on the importance of voting, deputy chief election officer   on Thursday told the students of   (NU) that it is their responsibility to ensure their name is enrolled in the  .

 He was addressing the students during an interactive session organized by NU at   Institute of Arts and Social Sciences. 
 
 He said voters’ list is not permanent but a dynamic document that keeps changing every year.
 
 When students asked about mistakes in the list, he said the   had often found that citizens are at fault.
 
 On the reluctance of youngsters to vote, Mohod said, “We have found that the winner is elected through voting by only 60% people. This means that the party or the person elected to power has the backing of only 31% but gets the mandate to rule 100% population. Youngsters say they don’t believe in any of the candidate in the fray. Hence, they must opt for none of the above (NOTA) so that the elected person knows that a certain percentage of population doesn’t want him to lead.”
 
 A visually impaired student asked Mohod about arrangement for voters like him. “Election Commission’s guidelines are available for Braille ballot paper and assistance by on-duty staff. But we don’t know if every visually impaired voter would know Braille. Thus, a relative or trusted person is allowed to help blind people vote at polling booths,” he said.
 
 Deputy district election officer Leena Falke asked girl students to increase women participation in the election process. “In the ensuing local body polls, ensure you cast your vote. Then only our issues can be addressed,” she told them.
 
 Assistant professor Anil Bankar, who had organized the session, and student welfare director Neehal Sheikh were also present on the occasion.
 
 Bankar said before the session, a training and mock drill was organized at the institute. Officials of the district election office told students about the entire polling process. Students were made to stand in a queue just like it is done at polling booths, identify their names in the rolls, and apply indelible ink before casting votes on EVMs.
 
