As India's domestic air passenger traffic continues its double-digit growth, the one big question that surrounds Juhu airport is whether it can play a supporting role and take some burden off the lone, congested Mumbai airport?

 Officials of the Airports Authority of India (AAI) are divided on the issue. Top officials in the AAI headquarters in Delhi believe Juhu airport can be developed to decongest, to some extent, the Mumbai airport.After the private consultancy firm submitted a report that wasn't technically sound, AAI appointed another firm, this time for an indepth study on how best to use the Juhu airport.
 
 But Mumbai air traffic controllers say the only solution is construction of the Navi Mumbai airport. “AAI pays crores to consultants who haven't told us anything that we don't already know. The first consultancy firm they hired over six years ago didn't even have a technical expert and they submitted a poor report.Why was that firm hired? It's a racket that needs investigation,“ said  , AAI deputy general manager, aviation safety.
 
 Senior air traffic controllers explained the technical problems that make the Juhu plan financially unfeasible. The plan is to extend the Juhu main runway into the Arabian   on   to make it long enough to accommodate ATR aircraft (Jet Airways and Air India together have about 35 ATRs). Currently , only small aircraft and helicopters operate out of Juhu. “If the runway is extended to 1,700 m, then the threshold will need to be displaced by 1100m. So effective landing length available won't be enough for ATRs (see graphic),“ said Mangala.
 
 At 1700m, the runway will have to extend into the Arabian Sea on stilts, to prevent it from getting submerged during high tide. However with the runway and runway shoulders on stilts, there is the fear that Juhu would flood during monsoon.
 
 So why can't aircraft fly in from the west, overfly the Arabian Sea, and land? The reason is because the sea breeze is prominent for eight months of a year which makes landing unsafe on runway 08. Also for every runway , AAI has to ensure that an aircraft can safely abort a landing and take-off for a second attempt at touchdown. This can't be done in case of runway 08, as any attempt to take-off will put the aircraft in the path of the buildings near SV Road.
 
 The second question is how many ATRs can land in Juhu in an hour even if the runway is adequately extended? An official from Mumbai air traffic control said: “With all solutions applied and crores spent, at the most, the Juhu airport would be able to handle about eight to 10 ATR aircraft arrivals in an hour.Without that, it would be only three to four ATR arrivals an hour.“ That is because every time an ATR aircraft makes an approach to land in Juhu, the aircraft arrivals onto the Mumbai airport main runway would need to be spaced accordingly to ensure separation between both landing aircraft.
 
 So the question many are asking, is whether it is financially viable to spend crores and extend the Juhu main runway into the sea when it cannot be operated independent of the Mumbai airport runway .
 
