AGRA:   University in Agra has issued notices to over 600 of its   for not providing details on some basic parameters such as infrastructure and  . The university administration has also decided not to allow these colleges to admit students for this academic session in case they fail to submit these details by June 30.

  The new academic session is set to begin from August.
 
  University sources said that some of these colleges have not adhered to norms like proper infrastructure, adequate staff and availability of basic amenities, and that is why they are reluctant on sharing these details with the varsity.
  
  Earlier, the university administration had sought details on nine parameters from all affiliated colleges. As many as 900 colleges with permanent affiliation were required to provide details by April 15. However, more than 600 colleges did not comply with the directive till April end after which they were issued fresh notices. The colleges failing to provide the desired information by June end will not be allowed to take students for graduate and postgraduate courses this year.
  
  Officials said that the varsity is looking to assess the teaching and learning standards in these institutions and will later put up details of all colleges online to assist the students with the required information. The notice issued by the university seeks information on various parameters such as affiliation details, number of students with their admission proof, academic qualifications of faculty members and principal, infrastructural details (laboratories, libraries, toilets, sports facilities) and the fee structure.
  
 GS Sharma, the university’s   officer, said, “Most colleges have not provided information on the required parameters and thus the administration has issued notices to them. Names of all colleges failing to provide complete details by June 30 will be uploaded on the university website on July 1. Students will be warned not to take admission in these colleges.”
