A barber from Beed district, infamous for its   and a skewed  , has proved that true change must come from within. Despite leading a hand-to-mouth existence, he is offering free haircut and shaving services to fathers of newborn girls for six months, and to tonsure the babies, as is customary, when they turn one.

 Ashok Pawar, 29, who has a one-year-old daughter, runs Ishvari Gents Parlour in Kumbhephal, a small village in Marathwada's Beed that gained notoriety for illegal sex determination tests, and female foeticide and infanticide. Pawar has put up a board outside his matchbox-sized salon announcing the free services. He started the “scheme“ on January 1 and so far, has given the free services to 15 customers. He otherwise charges Rs 50 for a haircut and shave. Ashok Pawar, whose daughter is named Shravani, said he always wanted a girl and decided to do his bit for the girl child on her birthday . 
 
 “One of the main reasons why people do not want a girl child is because of the fear of increased expenses. By offering my services for free, I can shoulder some of their expenses so that they welcome a girl child without any worries,“ said Pawar, who has named his shop after his niece.
 
 “I worked as a helper at a neighbouring hair dresser's shop for six years but my daughter proved lucky for me. Within a few months of her birth, I could buy my own shop,“ said Pawar, who has always had girls for company as he grew up with four sisters.
 
 “We have a culture where we pray to the devi (goddess), but when we have a girl child, we don't want her. This mindset needs to change and this will change when we, as a society , do something to create awareness,“ said Pawar, who could not complete his graduation.
 
 Vishnu Thorat, 34, one of the customers availing of the free services, said Pawar's idea has been the talk of the town and people from far-off villages have begun to visit his shop to avail of the scheme. “His initiative is really taking the `Beti Bachao' movement forward. Since he earns very little, he couldn't give anything in cash. He therefore decided to offer his services for free,“ said Thorat.
 
 Pawar makes Rs 10,000 a month from his shop and walks three km one way from his house to his   as he has not been able to save enough to buy a bike.
 
