CHENNAI: After six days of agitation, students and youths at   vowed to continue their protest. By Sunday afternoon, the government said it had done its part by getting rid of the ban on jallikattu through a  . By evening, the key campaigners for jallikattu came out and said that the protest had served its purpose and, at this point, anti-social elements were trying to hijack it. They pleaded that the protest should be called off now.

 Yet many at Marina Beach said a ‘permanent solution’ had not been found. Not having a leadership experienced in organizing protests, the protesters wanted that someone from the government side should hear them out and explain their position. “We don’t trust the government. They have kept the ordinance a secret. They should explain how jallikattu can happen without hindrance now,” said  , who was among the students called by chief minister   for talks on Wednesday.
 
 On Sunday night, five key campaigners behind the protests -- P Rajasekharan, state president of Jallikattu Peravai, ‘Hip Hop Tamizha’ Aadhi, Karthikeya Sivasenapathy, who heads the Senaapathy Kangayam Cattle Research Foundation near Tirupur, Ambalatharasu of Jallikattu Pathugaapu Sangam and T Rajesh state president Veera Vilayattu Meetpu Kazhagam – called on chief minister O Panneerselvam. Later, they said the ordinance was a 90% success in their fight for jallikattu and said all the provisions they sought have been included in the ordinance. “We have also requested the government to bear the cost of setting up barricades to ensure safety. This should be included in the Act,” said Rajasekharan. All of them assayed the fears and the suspicions of the student protestors saying all the leaders – from the state to central – had taken concrete steps towards framing a new law. “We also met the environment minister who promised to talk to members of the Animal Welfare Board of India to ensure the law isn’t challenged in the future,” said Sivasenapathy, urging the students to exercise patience. He said the five of them had helped start the protest at Alanganallur. “Everywhere else it happened organically. So we don’t have the right to demand that the protesters should stop their campaign. We can only request them,” he said. 
 
 They said “anti-social elements” seemed to have entered the protest and were trying to deviate the movement from the real cause. “All that has done so far hasn’t compromised the integrity of the nation. It has been within the framework of the Indian Constitution,” said Ambalatharasu, urging the students to engage the leaders in a dialogue. “The world is watching us. We have won our cause. If we continue, we will lose our vision,” he said.
 
 
 
 
