NAGPUR: Class XII CBSE students, who appeared for maths   on Monday, heaved a sigh of relief. They felt that the paper was quite   as compared to the previous year.

 “The paper was unexpectedly easy. There was nothing difficult. Most of the questions were indirectly from the textbook, so that was a relief. There wasn’t any question which did not belong to the syllabus. There were a lot of application-based questions, but again, they were easy. I am happy with how my exam went,” said student Mridul Palsapure.
 
 Aikansh Jain said, “If I had to rate the exam on a scale of 1 to 10, I would give it a 5. It was average. It was more application-oriented than theoretical. If your concepts were clear, you would be able to crack those questions. We were taught well at our school, so we obviously did well. The paper was quite lengthy but I managed to finish it on time.”
 
 Muskan Waghwani was disheartened as she wasn’t able to finish the exam due to lack of time. “The paper was comparatively easier than last year. I expected it to be really difficult after I saw previous year’s question papers, but it wasn't. The only shortcoming was the lack of time. I couldn’t manage time and finish the exam. All the questions were from NCERT books and nothing extra was asked.”
 
 “The paper was moderate. A lot of my friends weren’t able to complete the exam because of lack of time, but I managed to finish it. There were a lot of questions which required usage of grey cells. Section B and a part of section C were the toughest. But I think I did well. I am happy that all the questions were from the syllabus,” said Naman Golchha.
 
 Teacher Anindita Thomas was also happy with how the exam went. She said, “It was a well-balanced paper. I must say that CBSE really referred to NCERT books for questions. It was almost textbook-based.”
 
 “The paper was student friendly and they were quite comfortable solving it. Those who had practised well shouldn’t be facing problems. The calculations were quite lengthy but that was expected. It was board exam so it couldn’t be a throwaway paper. I also feel that this was much easier and better than last year’s paper. However, the board didn’t sacrifice its standards,” she added.
 
