KOLKATA: On Wednesday, Chris Gayle played for Behala Thunders while   was representing Kudghat Chargers. No, you had not mistaken them taking the field in red and orange jerseys on Wednesday evening but they have changed teams in the virtual world.

 With the onset of   10 on Wednesday began the IPL fantasy league where lakhs of cricket buffs made their own squad, buying players with virtual dollars but with a chance of making some actual money or goodies at the end of the tournament. 
 
 Available on IPL’s official website as well as some private websites like Fandromeda and Cricinfo, the league provides a budget of $10 million in virtual currency, using which one can create a virtual XI by picking batsmen, bowlers, all-rounders and a wicket-keeper belonging to different IPL sides.
 
 “The game is as exciting as the real one. You feel excited when your player hits a six or picks up a wicket or even takes a catch. You earn points on the player even if he is in the team that you don’t support in real,” said Sougata Paul, a software engineer at a Sector V company. 
 
 Banker Avijit Roy said he got so engaged with the game that he keeps tabs on the scores on his mobile even in between work. “It’s addictive. It doesn’t matter if you win the cash prize. You can make your own gang with six or seven friends and play among them to beat one another. That is extremely exciting,” he said. 
 
 The virtual players earn points based on the performance of real players in IPL matches. Points are awarded for scoring runs, holding catches, effecting run-outs and taking wickets, among other performances.
 
 Winners are rewarded with match tickets, IPL merchandise and even cash prizes at private sites. The fantasy team with most points wins the league.
 
 But one has to have proper cricketing knowhow while selecting a team. For example, one has to keep in mind that as many as six Indian cricketers — Virat Kohli,  , Umesh Yadav, R Ashwin,   and KL Rahul — are injured and are likely to miss most matches. Also, some premier foreign players are also unavailable.
 
 “We also have to keep tabs on the form of a player. For example, players like Glenn Maxwell, Shane   and Robin Uthappa who have a brilliant past IPL record were severely out of form in the last edition. One has to keep those in mind, just like a real team manager,” said Sandeep Jaiswal, who runs a car rental agency and owns ‘Salt Lake Champions’.
 
