KOLKATA: Thirty-five fire tenders, 250 firemen, 750-odd local residents and close to 20 hours of relentless fight is what it took to douse the fire at Amratolla Lane in  , off Bagri Market.

 Although no one was injured in the fire, the century-old structure that had caught fire was completely gutted as firemen failed to enter the building for 19 hours and had to spray water from the terraces of adjacent buildings.
 
 With only the red brick framework left, KMC — whose officials visited the site on Tuesday — has decided to pull down the entire building. They submitted a report to the mayor, saying the building’s framework had developed cracks and it has to be demolished at the earliest. “The building has to be pulled down. It is in an extremely unsafe state,” said mayor and state fire services minister Sovan Chatterjee.
 
 Chatterjee also met chief minister   over the issue of growing incidents of fire at Burrabazar and the hindrances put up by the shops and establishments in the area that prevents firemen from reaching the spot. The chief minister, it was learnt, was far from happy with the ground situation. “Although the government has repeatedly asked the owners of dilapidated buildings to repair them, nothing is being done. In fact, the uncordial tenant-owner relationship is one of the reasons for these buildings not being maintained. I would urge the owners to solve their problems with the tenants and repair the buildings. If the owners face difficulty, they can approach the municipalities. The government will extend all help. If a fire breaks out in any such building, who will take responsibility?” she reportedly said within close circles.
 
 Chatterjee said Banerjee had advised KMC to form a body with the fire services and municipal affairs departments that would focus entirely on encroachment in the Burrabazar area. “Several portions of Burrabazar have become tinderboxes,” he said. 
 
 The house has four wooden entry and exit staircases in four corners of the building. “I was having dinner when my son ran inside and said there was a fire. My son picked his son and daughter and my daughter-in-law and I started running down together. By then, the ground-floor staircase was inaccessible. Some neighbours broke into the house and helped us escape the building through the window, to the terrace of the adjacent house,” said  , a resident. 
 
 And though residents complained of delay by the fire brigade, the firemen were actually running up and down the narrow alleys beside Bagri market and  , struggling to reach the building. “The alleys were too narrow for our vehicles,” said an officer.
 
 The fire could not be controlled throughout Monday night and Tuesday morning. Four firemen were injured when they tried to enter the building in the morning. The building’s wooden staricases were gutted. It was only around Tuesday afternoon that the fire was doused. 
 
