PUNE: Police are planning to assign a cop for every 50   professionals working with IT companies in the city to shield them from any adverse situation.

 Called “Police Friend“, the initiative is aimed at providing assistance to women professionals. Commissioner of Police Rashmi   told TOI on Thursday, “One constable or an officer will be assigned for a group of 15 to 50 women IT professionals in   and other IT parks. They will be provided the cellphone number of the assigned cop, whom they can contact in case of an emergency or share their issues related to harassment, stalking or even transport.“
 
 Shukla said, “Local police stations will reach out to IT companies and prepare a list of women employees. For a group of 15 to 50 women, there will be a sleuth ready for help at a call.The number of members in a group can exceed in some cases, though.“
 
 When asked if the city police force had enough personnel to cater to the large number of women IT professionals working at different locations across the city, Shukla said, “The number of women in a group won't be an issue. We shall finalise a plan based on the inputs we receive from the local police stations following their survey. All women in the IT sector will be covered under the plan.“
 
 The Hinjewadi IT Park hou ses the largest number of IT companies in the city. There are IT parks at Hadapsar, Kharadi, Aundh, Deccan, Yerawada and   also. Together, the companies account for a large number of woman IT professionals and it would be a challenge for the police to assign a sleuth for each group comprising 15 to 50 or even more professionals.
 
 Shukla said the police were attempting a solution through this initiative, which would be fine-tuned according to the experience. “The assigned constable or officer will address issues faced by women professionals not only at workplace, but outside the campuses, too. They will report the issues to their seniors to resolve them.“
 
 Women IT professionals can contact the assigned constables anytime during the day . “This is an attempt to create a safe environment for women employed in premier companies,“ Shukla said.
 
