KOCHI: Bus drivers, who are often held responsible for a large number of road accidents in the state have their own set of problems. In Ernakulam, they are blaming the   activity which makes it smooth navigation through the city traffic, next to impossible.

 “The roads are in a horrible condition, so for us in every road is a challenge,“ said KC Kanan, who drives a private bus in the city. Bus drivers say accidents are most likely to happen in areas where the traffic is dense.
 
 “MG Road, Sahodharan Ayyappan Road and Edapally are the most the difficult to drive through because of the cars that are parked on the left side. We have certain responsibilities, that is to stop at designated bus stops and finish our trips on time. So when we come across such obstructions we have no choice but to swerve to the right,“ said V Prashant a private bus driver from Paravur.
 
 They also said that narrow roads can be extremely dangerous as bikers have a tendency to overtake the buses through narrow gaps. “There are circumstances where we cannot see, we are sitting on a bus but the other motorist can see things clearly , but they don't show the courtesy to wait for a few seconds,“ said S Ajesh, a KSRTC bus driver.
 
 “Most of the time we have no idea, which part of our bus is dysfunctional, it could be our horn or break, it is not easy for us to respond quickly ,“ he added.
 
 He said that when car drivers halt their vehicles abruptly at busy streets like MG Road and Kadavanthra, it is impossible for them to immediately respond.
 
 “I am not saying that bus drivers are never responsible for the road accidents but that road is narrow, everyone is cutting each other from either direction, if the Motor Vehicles Department were to put a divider there, then we would happily accept that decision, because we also need a safe road,“ said Shaji D, a private bus driver commenting on the recent accidents on Varappuzha bridge.
 
 He said that bikes are most unpredictable vehicles on the roads and that bike riders must be more cautious around buses.
 
 
