Madikeri: With hardly two days left for the   celebrations, the untimely rain could play havoc with the preparation. Mantap celebrations are on with 10 temple committees engaged in giving decorating   with flowers and glowing lights. Committee members are worried that rain could hinder the preparation of figures and fixing of lights.

 Each mantap is prepared at a minimum cost of Rs 10lakh, and a maximum of Rs 25lakh, depending on the enthusiasm to compete for the three prizes -- Devendra garva bhanga by Dechuru Ramamandira, Ananthpadmanbha Darshana by Pete Rama Mandira, Narakasura Vadhe by Kundurumotte, Hiranyaksha Vadhe by Kote Mariamma, Lalithambika killing Bhandasura by Chawdeshwari, Bhoodevi killing Narakasura by Karavale Bhagavathi, Chamundeshwari killing Mahishasura by Dandina Mariamma, Vinayaka killing Thalasura by Kote Ganapathi, Kolluru Mookambika killing Mookasura by Kodandarama, and Ramanjaneya killing Ravanasura by Kanchi Kamakshi are the 10 mantaps getting prepared to enthral thousands of enthusiasts.
 
 The procession of the figures will be exhibited at three shows during the Shobha Yatra in the town on Dasara night, with one show exclusively for the judges. The show will take a minimum of 20 minutes climaxing in a fight between gods, goddesses and demons, ultimately ending in the killing of demons with audio effects, conversations, glowing lights etc.
 
 The Dasara committee will distribute Rs 2lakh each for mantaps and Rs 1lakh each for karagas out of the government-sanctioned amount of Rs 50lakh for Madikeri Dasara. With Rs 20lakh collected by donors the total budget is Rs 70lakh, Dasara committee and city municipal council president Kaveramma Somanna said.
 
 For Ayudha Puja, decoration competitions for various type of vehicles will be organized. Decoration contests for shops and establishments are already announced. Cultural programmes, which started on September 22, will end on Friday evening and a night orchestra will play through Saturday night into the early hours of Sunday.
 
 
