AHMEDABAD:   have arrested   — both residents of Naroda — for the brutal murder of a 17-year-old girl. The decomposed body of the girl was found in a locked flat in Golden Apartments, Krishnanagar, on Thursday. The girl had lost her life because she had resisted being pushed into flesh trade by her own boyfriend, Panchal, with whom she had eloped in March 2017. Crime branch officials said they arrested the accused from the   late on Saturday night.

  Crime branch officials said they are probing the role of a traffic ASI identified as Lakhansinh who was present at the flat when the murder occurred on May 9. Police said Lakhansinh is Zala’s friend. Deputy commissioner of police, crime branch, Deepan Bhadran said Panchal and Zala wanted to earn quick money by pushing the girl into flesh trade. “However, strong resistance from the girl forced the duo to strangle her,” Bhadran said. “Before they could find someone to dispose of the body, cops reached the flat as residents had complained of foul smell.”
 
 Inspector S L Chaudhary said the girl belonged to Bhatali village in Sabarkantha. Panchal is married to another woman and is the father of a girl child. He trapped the minor girl into a love affair and then eloped with her. Panchal then contacted Zala and told him that they could earn a lot of money by pushing the girl into prostitution. According to the plan, Zala quarrelled with his wife and sent her to her parents’ house. “The duo then brought the girl to Zala’s rented flat at Golden Apartments,” Chaudhary said. “They mixed liquor into a bottle of cold drink and gave it to the girl so that she could be pushed into flesh trade. However, the girl’s resistance was too strong for Zala and Panchal to handle.”
 
 As for Lakhansinh, a crime branch source said: “Lakhansinh said he had gone for dinner to Zala’s place. However his story seems vague as Zala’s wife was not present in the flat. We suspect went there as a customer.” Crime branch officials said they have handed over the accused and the suspect Lakhansinh to Krishnanagar police for further investigation.
 
