BENGALURU: Although it’s been more than eight months after chief minister Siddaramaiah assured that work on the alternative route to   ( ) – via Hennur,   and Begur – would be expedited to decongest Ballari Road, work on  , a key link on the route, is yet to resume.

 Bangalore Development Authority (BDA) halted work on Hennur Flyover eight years ago, owing to problems with land acquisition. Residents in the surrounding area demanded higher compensation, bringing work on the structure to a juddering halt. Although compensation has been paid to the residents and land for the project has been acquired, ongoing work by the Bengaluru Water Supply and Sewerage Board (BWSSB) on shifting underground pipelines in the area has delayed work further.
 
 The road via Bagalur could help residents in the eastern and southeastern parts of the city – Marathahalli, Whitefield, Sarjapur, etc – reach the airport much faster, besides reducing the burden on Ballari Road. The CM urged expedition of work on this road following the uproar against the proposed steel flyover from Chalukya Circle to Hebbal.
 
 The government was forced to open the route during the Aero Show in February, to divert traffic from Ballari Road. A portion of this route, near Bagalur was tarred, and cabs started to ply on this stretch temporarily. However, absence of streetlights in areas such as Begur and other villages in Byatarayanapura, coupled with the poor condition of the stretch from Mailanahalli near the southern entrance to KIA, has seen vehicular movement on this route gradually reduce after Aero Show.
 
 “The road is very narrow after Bagalur, and vehicles need to go through small lanes to reach Chikkajala and meet Ballari Road to enter KIA,” said residents of Bagalur and other villages on the route.
 
 The snail-paced work on Hennur Flyover is among the major reasons for the work on the alternative route to KIA remaining incomplete. Residents of areas near the flyover point to the lack of coordination between civic agencies for the mess. “In November, BDA started building service roads, but completed them only one side. BWSSB had to shift the sewage lines on the other side of the road. In January, BWSSB workers dug up a part of the work but haven’t returned to complete the work. BWSSB said that there were issues with gas pipelines running underground. However, this has left us with leaking sewage pipelines for nearly five months now,” said K Somshekar, a resident and businessman.
 
 However, BDA engineer PN Nayak expressed confidence of BWSSB completing its work by Saturday. “We can start work on widening the road from Monday. The flyover ramp towards Hennur will be completed by August end,” he said.
 
 The entire length of the alternative route to KIA’s southern entrance is around 22km. The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) will have to widen the road into a four-lane street till Bagalur, where the civic body’s jurisdiction ends. “The road till Bagalur is already wide. But we will ensure the road is equipped with all facilities to handle the additional load. Work on this will begin shortly,” BBMP commissioner Manjunatha Prasad told TOI.
 
 Meanwhile, Karnataka Industrial Areas Development Board (KIADB) has acquired 17.39 acres in the four villages in the vicinity of KIA’s southern entrance – Begur, Mailanahalli, Chikkanahalli and Bettakote. Road-widening work on this 2km-long stretch has been handed over to the public works department (PWD). “The total compensation to be paid to the farmers comes up to Rs 65 crore, of which Rs 10 crore has already been given,” said Pankaj Pandey, KIADB CEO.
 
 PWD MD M Lakshminarayana said, “We have started work on the road. We have deposited money to Bescom in order to get electric lines along the stretch shifted, and they have invited tenders for the same. Once this gets done, we will not take much time to complete work on this stretch.”
 
  will develop the last 1km- stretch of the road that passes through Mailanahalli, leading to KIA’s second runway, expected to be completed by September 2019. BIAL estimates that it would be equipped to handle 65 million passengers annually once both runways are operational.
 
 
