Trichy: Bharathidasan University ( ) has finally approved additional seats for UG/PG courses above the sanctioned strength in its affiliated colleges. The colleges will have to pay Rs 1,000 per additional seat to the university. 

 However, the charges are restricted to only self-financing courses offered by government-aided and self-financing colleges. Government colleges, government-aided colleges (for aided courses only) and constituent/ model colleges are exempted from paying additional fees for the extra seats sanctioned. 
 
 The university has allowed government colleges, constituent and model colleges to admit 20% more students than the sanctioned strength. Aided-colleges can have 15% more seats to non-laboratory courses and 10% to the laboratory courses, while self-financing colleges can admit 10% more students than the sanctioned strength. 
 
 The vice-chancellor convenor committee passed a circular resolution seeking the approval of university syndicate for additional intake of seats based on requests from many of the affiliated colleges. It has to be noted that the approval is only for the academic year 2017-18. 
 
 The university, under the vice-chancellorship of V M Muthu Kumar, had been reluctant to allow additional intake over the past three years. Principal of St Joseph’s College (SJC) Andrew Francis said the move would help more students from the underprivileged section to afford education. 
 
 “We even went on to say that what you have been doing is encouraging privatisation of education and would only benefit the elite, but he was not convinced,” recalled Francis. “In turn he asked us to open additional sections. But as per norms, colleges can only come up with self-financing sections which only the students from elite group can afford, not the under-privileged,” he said. 
 
 “We see several students coming late for admissions after being unable to make it to Agriculture University and other colleges. They are bright students who secured over 1,000 marks but we cannot admit them as seats are filled by the time they come and we were not allowed to increase intake,” added Francis.
 
 Meanwhile, another section of academicians, said the move should be rolled back as self-financing colleges may use this opportunity to mint money. A decade ago, before the boom of engineering courses in the state, there was an unprecedented demand for arts and science courses.
 
 A senior faculty member from BDU said that there was a general convention followed by self-financing colleges to approach the university seeking approval to raise number of seats beyond the sanctioned strength. While many colleges sold out the seats by raising intake even without any approval by university, it was stopped by the former vice-chancellor. “Increasing the seats may also revive irregularities,” said the faculty member. 
 
 
