At a time when the prevailing trend is to go for fancier and grander wedding invites, especially for high-profile weddings,   cabinet minister   has gone down the road less taken. For his daughter's wedding, which will be held in Gurgaon next week, the minister has discarded the use of printed paper wedding invites and resorted to inviting all 7,000 guests by delivering personal invites over the phone or through WhatsApp. Even high-profile guests like the Haryana CM and governor have been only given verbal invites for the grand wedding. According to Narbir Singh, the move is an effort on his part to help the environment by reducing the use of paper and thereby saving trees.

  Rao Narbir Singh is a three-time MLA from Gurgaon's Badshahpur constituency, and is currently the minister for PWD, forest, civil aviation, and architecture in the Haryana cabinet. According to Narbir Singh, the decision to go paperless for the wedding invites was taken to keep in line with his instruction to his staff on cutting down on the use of paper during events and functions. He says, "I have always believed that the use of paper should be minimized in all walks of life. Even in official functions and events, I urge my departments not to print fliers or pamphlets for promotion. It’s the day and age of technology and social media. We should utilize that to minimize the use of paper and help save the environment, which is exactly what I’m doing here."
 
  
  
 
  The wedding takes place in Gurgaon's   today, with an expected guest list of around 7,000. The minister says that he has been personally calling the senior administrative officials and politicians in the state to invite them to the wedding, and some he has met personally. Even the invitations given to Haryana Governor Kaptaan Singh Solanki and CM Manohar Lal Khattar have been only verbal. "We are inviting about 7000 people to the wedding, which includes friends and acquaintances from Badshahpur, supporters from the political circles, as well as senior politicians and bureaucrats. All the invites are being delivered either personally by me or by my family members and associates. If it is difficult for us to visit personally, we are calling people up, or dropping text or Whatsapp messages," he tells us.
 
  Talking about the need and importance of the step, the minister says, "This is a small initiative I have taken to conserve trees. I think if more people do small things like these, it will really make a difference. But I cannot expect people to do something if I only talk about it and don’t follow it myself. One has to practice what they preach. Small things like these, if implemented properly, can save lakhs of trees every year."
 
  
  
 
 
