GUWAHATI: In the face of youths belonging to Khamti community of Arunachal Pradesh’s Namsai district increasingly taking to drug abuse, state deputy chief minister   said that the government has planned to fight the menace by promoting tourism activities in the area.

 Mein, who represents Namsai constituency in the assembly, said increasing tourism activities in the area is the only way by which youths can be engaged in a big way and wean them away from drug abuse.
 
 Of the 90,000-odd total population in Namsai, about 120 KM from Assam’s   town, Khamtis comprise about 20,000.
 
 Mein said more than 1000 Khamti youths are into drug abuse and the problem is on the rise. Khamtis, also known as Tai Khamti, are Buddhist.
 
 “If we do not save the youths from drug abuse, the culture and identity of Khamti tribe will be lost in coming days. We gave a serious thought on the issue and come out with a plan to promote tourism in a big way. Once youths are engaged in income generation activities centred around tourism, we believe the druge abuse can be curbed significantly,” Mein told TOI recently.
 
 The deputy chief minister said that Namsai and its adjoining districts have many things to offer to visitors from tourism point of view, and harnessing the potential will give a boost to the morale of the youths.
 
 “We have plans to set up cottages and basic amenities for tourists. We want to promote Khamti cuisine as well as tourists spots across the state in a big way. There is also plan to establish handloom and handicraft sell centres,” the deputy chief minister said.
 
 To start with, Mein said, a project worth Rs 3 crore will be used to develop tourism infrastructure in Namsai soon.
 
 He said that Namsai, located on the eastern part of Arunachal Pradesh, is yet to get proper exposure from tourism point of view.
 
 During World Tourism Day celebration in Namsai on September 27, Arunachal Pradesh chief minister Pema Khandu said that tourism will be promoted in eastern part of the state as this part draws less visitors compared to western part.
 
 Besides, religious and culture tourism Namsai, Mein said the district and its nearby areas have many spots for jungle trekking, river rafting and bird watching.
 “We also have planned to promote agri-tourism in Namsai. The area produces famed aromatic rice known as Khamti rice,” he added.
 
