THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Budget brings some good news for city residents, who feared a   due to a poor monsoon. The city which depends on a single source – Peppara reservoir – will get an alternative source at Neyyar. Finance minister T M Thomas Isaac has announced Rs 150 crore for an alternative water source for Thiruvananthapuram.

 This was announced along with Rs 1,696 crore for 41 water supply schemes under Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board.
 
 This will give a boost to KWA for the new project envisaged at the upstream of Neyyar for generation of 120MLD water. Of the 120MLD, the city will get 100MLD. 
 
 As per the project, around 120 million litres of water per day could be supplied. From this around 100MLD will be brought to the PTP Nagar tank for the city. Maranalloor, Malainkeezhu, Vilavoorkal and Vilappil panchayats each will get 5MLD water.
 
 KWA sources said the detailed engineering report for the scheme gave an estimate of Rs 265 crore. It was submitted to the government for approval. With the announced amount, KWA could only carry out first phase of the works.
 
 The KWA had initially planned the project at   near Maranalloor, at the downstream of Neyyar dam. However, it was later shifted to Neyyar. Maranalloor project would be feasible only when there is enough water in the downstream of Neyyar river. The project was thus shifted to the upstream of the river, so that water could be brought down under gravity, which will help avoid pumping cost.
 
 The project will be implemented in land belonging to the irrigation department near Neyyar dam. The KWA had got Rs 33 crore in 2014 as Central fund after the project was placed at the meeting of National Rural Drinking Water Programme. However, due to delay in executing the project, the amount got lapsed.
 
 While the national average per capita domestic consumption of water at 135 litres per day, the KWA is offering 180 litres per person per day in the city. However, that too is insufficient considering the rate of water consumption in the state.
 
 The existing project involves transportation of water from Peppara dam to Aruvikkara and then water is brought to the city through three transmission pipes after treatment. It supplies 300MLD water to city per day. But around 40% of the water is lost during transmission and thus only around 180MLD water reaches the city. 
 
 Due to a poor monsoon, the city is facing water crisis. Water for around 50 days is left at Peppara, which is depleting fast. A second source of water is therefore crucial for the city.
 
