MANGALURU: With protests and bandhs against Yettinahole project failing to yield desired results, the Nethravathi Rakshana Samyukta Samiti is gearing up for a serious protest in the form of `fast unto death’ satyagraha till the project is stopped.

 About 14 members of the Samithi will sit on fast unto death satyagraha in front of Mahatma Gandhi's statue, Town Hall on February 10 till such time the state government announces a temporary halt to the ongoing works at the project site.
 
 Announcing this, leaders of the Samithi said that while 14 members would sit on an indefinite fast, supporters for the cause would show their solidarity by sitting on a daylong hunger strike with them.
 
 Those who will sit on indefinite fast are: MP Nalin Kumar Kateel, Kemaru Sandeepani Sadhanashram seer Esha Vittaldas, MG Hegde, Dinaker Shetty, Satyajit Surathkal, Harish Poonja, Shashiraj Kolambe, Narayana Bangera, Kiran Rai Bajal, Dr Bharath Shetty, Puspharaj Shetty, Harikrishna Bantwal, Monappa Bhandary, Haneef Konaje and Siraj.
 
 Hegde said the indefinite fast will continue till the state government temporarily halts the project and sends in the water resources minister, officials from that department and water experts.
 
 “We are ready to discuss with experts from Kolar, for whom the project is intended to supply drinking water. We want them to sit with us and listen to what experts say and what we have to say. If the experts are able to answer our doubts, then there will no problem,” said  , a member of the Samithi expressing fears that the project would leave the district parched.
 
 He said already the taluks of Bantwal and Belthangady have been declared drought prone, a first, and this project would only aggravate the situation further.
 
 They suggested the government find other alternatives to provide drinking water to Bengaluru, Kolar and Chikkaballapur districts. Experts have alleged that the project has already violated several rules. Experts have questioned how the government plans to draw 24 TMC of water from Nethravati river tributaries at Yettinahole, when the report of the central government’s   states the additional water flow in the project area is only 6 – 7 TMC.
 
 The Samithi has called all professionals and lay people to join their protest and support them.
 
