LUCKNOW: The first phase of   for 73 seats in 15 districts covers the region that was a springboard for the BJP to make a clean sweep in 2014 Lok Sabha polls.   had checked then UP BJP in charge Amit Shah and cabinet minister in Akhilesh government   for making speeches aimed at polarisation of votes to win. 

 Shah's ‘hate speech’ was about   in which 67 were killed, while Azam had made religious remarks visavis the Kargil War. Despite the ECI reprimand to Shah, BJP made cleansweep in the region as political pundits credited the win mainly to polarisation of votes. 
 
 BJP has enough issues up its sleeves for this region to bring polarisation into play. The 15 districts that go to poll in the first phas4e include Shamli, Muzaffarnagar, Baghpat, Meerut, Ghaziabad, Gautam Buddh Nagar, Hapur, Bulandshahar, Aligarh, Mathura, Hathras, Agra, Firozabad, Etah and Kasganj. Presently the national BJP chief, Amit Shah has been raking up election issues like Kairana exodus and Jawaharbagh (Mathura) that have genesis in these districts. Shah had said in his speeches that mass exodus from Kairan was because of deteriorating law and order and that it would be an election issue.
 
 On the other hand, Muzaffarnagar, which witnessed bloody riots in 2013, continue to be polarisation laboratory for the BJP even after three years. Bisahada beef controversy at Dadri in Gautam Buddh Nagar is another issue that later on saw many intellectuals labelling the present Modi government as intolerant. BJP leaders from the district, preferring anonymity, confirmed that the issue would be a major plank in this UP assembly election. 
 
 Killing of a Dalit in Aligarh and murder of VHP leader Arun Mahaur that gave rise to hate speeches by many BJP leaders would also be raked up by BJP campaigners during the assembly election. Jawaharbagh incident in Mathura is likely to come up in speeches most as the region is part of first phase polling.
 
 BJP spokesman Dr Chandramohan, on the other hand, said the Samajwadi Party government has failed to provide law and order and justice to the people of the state, which would be the issue to address. 
 
