Chandigarh: The   around the city has become the breeding ground for mosquitoes apart from being an eye sore. Wild growth adds to woes as it threatens the safety of the residents. The bushes have not been trimmed for quite some time, complained the residents. 

 Tarun Dhawal a resident of sector 37 said, “The growth must get removed now, as it has been pending long after the monsoon got over. The bushes are now causing trouble for the residents.”
 
 Another resident Shipra Sandhu said “The bushes have grown up to 2-3 feet in height and have become a breeding ground for mosquitoes as water flowing from houses gets stuck in the bushes for several days.”
 
 The situation is no different in sector 21 where the bushes have eaten up the foot path space meant for pedestrians. Vicky Kapoor, a resident said “We have been asking the authorities for the past several days to trim the wild growth as it has now started obstructing the view on road especially on turns.”
 
 The bushes block the view on turns increasing the chances of accidents as several vehicles pass through the road. Sanjiv Sharma a resident in sector 21 said, “At times people turn at high speed at well which not right, but now the view is also being obstructed.”
 
 The residents are also fearing the threat due to insects and snakes, as people are hesitating from walking along the foot path. Rupali Chandra, a resident said “ We never know what’s in the bushes as last year a huge snake found hiding in the heaps freaked out the residents. Since children in several residential colonies play in the evening it makes it all the more important to remove the bushes soon.”
 
 Another concern which the residents raised was that the wild growth is choking the underground sewerage as it tends to grow at several places blocking the flow of water. The growth is also damaging the tiles laid on the foot path. Harminder Bajwa, a resident of sector 22 said, “The wild growth causes the foot path to get slippery with time and wild plants too get mushroomed between the tiles after which the place slowly reaches its worst state.”
 
 
