PUNE: A 28-year-old  , who was arrested for kidnapping his sister-in-law, confessed to her murder on Monday. The police recovered the remains of the victim,  , on Tuesday.

 On January 6, Pimpri resident Govind Takbhate, wife Swati and mother-in-law lodged a missing person’s complaint at the  , saying Ashwini had not come home since the previous day.
 
 Takbhate even told the police that 25-year-old Ashwini had eloped with a friend. While the police were investigating, they got a call from a woman who claimed to be Ashwini. She told the police that she was happily married and asked the police to stop tracing her whereabouts. 
 
 However, the police persevered, and tracked down the friend with whom Ashwini was alleged to have eloped. They found out that the friend in question got married two months previously. The friend and his family were questioned, and the police found nothing suspicious.
 
 The police questioned Ashwini’s sister Swati again, and came to know that Govind was married to another woman. Swati informed the police that this led to several quarrels between Govind and Ashwini, who threatened to tell his second wife. He killed her for that.
 
 Swati informed the police that Govind had been in a disturbed frame of mind since the evening of January 5, and left home in the early hours of January 6. Police contacted Ashwini’s friend again, who then told them that Ashwini had been with him till 7pm on January 5, when he dropped her off near Sarasbaug wherefrom she was picked up by Govind.
 
 The police registered a case of kidnapping against Govind last Friday, and took him into custody on Sunday. “During interrogation, Govind confessed to murdering Ashwini and destroying her body,” Senior inspector S M Babar told TOI.
 
 How Ashwini was killed
 
 On January 5, Govind picked up Ashwini from Sarasbaug on a two-wheeler. Later, they boarded a mini bus which belonged to Govind. “He drove her to Khadi Machine Chowk in Kondhwa and bludgeoned her to death,” Rajmane said.
 
 Govind then went to Talegaon-Chakan Road and buried Ashwini’s body by the side of the road with help from his friend. “They even killed a stray dog and dumped the body near the spot so that people would not get suspicious when her body starts to smell,” Rajmane said.
 
 He burned the body 
 
 When police stepped up the search for Ashwini, a rattled Govind went to the spot on January 23. he exhumed the body which was in a highly decomposed condition and took it to a farm Barshi in Solapur district, where he burned it, and crushed the bones. 
 
 A team of police recovered the broken bones from the spot on Tuesday. Govind has been charged with murder, and police have launched a manhunt for his aide.
 
