NAGPUR: The Additional District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum here, has asked   ( ) to pay Rs1.63 lakh to the appellant for deficiency in service.

 A bench preside over by president Shekhar Mule and member Nitin Gharde held that in cases where petitioner expired, their legal representatives can lodge the claim for insurance.
 
 Out of total amount, the respondent would pay Rs1.50 lakh to the complainant  , resident of Teka Naka, with 9% interest from the date of the claim for loss of the vehicle. It would pay additional Rs10,000 compensation for causing mental and physical agony to the complainant and another Rs3,000 towards cost of litigation.
 
 Singh had lodged a complaint with the forum against company as it repudiated the claim to provide   money to him for his deceased father Himmat Singh’s vehicle. His father expired on March 25, 2013. The four-wheeler in father’s name met with an accident while returning from Raigarh on March 30, 2013. The incident was reported immediately to the police and an FIR was lodged.
 
 According to Motor Tariff Regulations, if the policy holder dies, the insurance doesn’t lapse but remains valid for three months after his death or until the expiry of the policy whichever comes first. The vehicle was insured till June 10, 2013, for Rs6.80 lakh
 
 As per Singh, the insurance company was informed, who sent a surveyor to assess the damage to the vehicle. On inspection, an assessment of loss of Rs1.50 lakh, with an interest of 14%, was made. But the insurance company rejected his claim on the ground that the driver was allegedly under the influence of alcohol.
 
 The appellant then approached the forum against NICL’s decision. The forum observed that the FIR is not a reliable evidence to claim that the driver was under the influence of alcohol. The judges added that consumption of alcohol is different from being under the influence of alcohol. Only proper medical examination can prove the latter.
 
 They also found that Singh could not explain when he applied for the transfer of policy from his father to his name. The company informed that claim form was submitted on June 6, 2013, one year after the accident, while the policy was transferred to him after on July 22, 2013. It argued that on this count the complainant has no right to make a claim, as there was no insurable interest in his favour when the claim form was submitted. However the forum ruled in complainant’s favour. 
 
 (With inputs from Praveen Tewari)
 
