KOLKATA: In a tit-for-tat strategy against the   government’s move to arrest Trinamool MPs Sudip Bandyopadhyay and Tapas Pal,   government has started filing FIRs against   lawmakers, legislatures and party officials.
 
  In last five days, there had been two such instances in which, Trinamool leaders have filed criminal cases against senior leaders of the saffron brigade. While MLA and general secretary of the party Mahua Moitra filed an FIR for “derogatory” comments by BJP MP   on a talk show in national television, another Trinamool leader Mitali Saha has filed a complaint against BJP national secretary Rahul Sinha for his alleged comments on Tapas Pal, late Tuesday night.
  
  Also, a complaint has been lodged against CBI officials by a former minister for arresting Sudip Bandopadhyay. As of now, there are three such instances in which,   actions have been initiated against senior BJP leaders. According to sources in government, more such actions are in the offing.
  
  BJP state president Dilip Ghosh is likely to be the next person against whom action might be taken, said sources. Babul Supriyo has already called the move a blatant attempt to ‘malign’ him and his party. The minister has already initiated a defamation case. Sinha too has discussed with lawyers.
  
  “I am not concerned about the FIR. The party in power is using all government mechanism to take political revenge against BJP. When CBI is arresting thieves, they call it political vendetta. But they are slapping false cases. Isn’t it political vendetta?
  
  Moreover, the FIR has been registered against me by Trinamool’s woman councillor. But I want to ask why they did not register an FIR when Tapas Pal in a public programme said he would unleash his men to rape CPM women?” Sinha asked.
  
  This apart, the Bengal government has also started clamping down on events of the BJP and RSS. The government has denied permission to the   to hold a "Kolkata Mahanagar Sayam Sevak Sammelan" in the city. The programme is scheduled to take place on January 14. RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat will address the gathering.
  
  This is supposed be first such programme in the city in which the Sangh volunteers will gather at the venue in uniform and perform certain skills they learn in Sakhas. The government has also denied Babul Supriyo permission to hold his annual "Assansol mela".
  
  In both cases, the RSS and BJP leadership has secured permission from central organisations like the   and Railways to hold the respective events.
  
  RSS has got land-permission from the Eastern Command to hold the RSS chief ’s programme in Brigade, the largest ground in the city centre, generally used for the political rallies of the ruling party. However, Sangh leaders were denied permission by the police. In the case of Asansol, the BJP leadership had managed permission from the railways to hold the fair in the railway ground.
  
  However, in both cases, RSS and BJP have filed cases in high court and a local court irrespectively seeking permission.
  
  
  
