BENGALURU: As the debate over granting independent religion status for   rages in political and religious circles, top legal minds and experts clearly say the Constitution does not permit the government to grant independent religion status on any community. The Centre, though, can grant minority status to any religion under some Acts. 

 Retired Supreme Court judge and former Karnataka Lokayukta   said the entire issue is politically motivated and Lingayats cannot be declared a separate religion. “Neither the state nor the Centre have the power to do so. There is no provision in the Constitution either to create a religion or remove one. All religions have history going back hundreds of years, which cannot be created through the Constitution. The state making a recommendation to the Centre will hold no sanctity,’’ he added.
 
 Former advocate-general and senior counsel B V Acharya added: “The Preamble of the Indian Constitution has the word secular, thereby implying that the state will not discriminate, patronize or meddle in the profession of any religion. Therefore, there is no provision under the Constitution to establish a new religion. Politicians are giving the community an unrewarding hope for electoral gain.”
 
 Though the Constitution does allow the government to create a new religion, former advocate-general and senior lawyer Prof Ravivarma Kumar said there are two different Acts: National Minorities Commission Section Act, 1992 - Section 2 (3) and National Minorities Education Institutions Act, 2004 - Section 2(F) of the central government that allow it to grant minority status. The previous   government had accorded minority status to Jains in 2014 to enable them to avail social and reservation benefits offered to other religious minorities, like Muslims and Christians. 
 
 Quoting Article 25 of the Constitution that says: “All persons are equally entitled to freedom of conscience and the right to freely profess, practice and propagate religion, subject to public order, morality and health”, Kumar said Lingayats need no recognition from the state and central government and have the liberty to exit Hinduism and form their own religion. “Lingayats have all the characteristics to start a new religion since they have a history of over 800 years, Vachanas, a holy book on the lines of the Bhagwad Gita, Koran and Bible and a distinct identity from all religions in India,” he added.
 
 Further, he said, Article 26 says all denominations can manage their own affairs in matters of religion.
 
 Former state public prosecutor   said governments have no provision to declare Lingayats a separate religion under Constitution but definitely have all powers to give the community minority status, if they want.
 
 Some social experts also said the Lingayats’ demand for a separate religion may not hold in a court of law, going by the Supreme Court’s decision in the curious case of Ramakrishna Mission seeking minority religion status under the Constitution of India. On July 2, 1995, the Supreme Court declared that neither Sri Ramakrishna nor Swami Vivekananda founded any independent, non-Hindu religion and their labyrinthine attempt to gain the privileges went in vain.
 
