MELBOURNE:   is your quintessential Aussie. At 83 years of age, he walks with a stick, yet his muscular and almost ramrod straight frame makes you wonder if he actually needs one. In fact, at times he forgets and leaves the stick behind as he moves around -unnoticed, unlike his more famous contemporary  .

 Fraser belongs to an era when fitness came by more playing than training. “Players are a lot stronger and hit the ball harder (now). But the players of today don't play any more tennis than we did,“ Fraser said. “Nearly all players played singles and doubles,“ said the Victorian who won three singles, 11 doubles and five mixed doubles Grand Slams titles.
 
 To put Fraser's words in perspective, at his prime, he played in the amateur era when the balls used were white and there were no official breaks during changeovers. Most importantly, there were no tiebreaks, which meant that the matches went on till there was a two-game difference in the decider. “Every Slam I played, I played singles and doubles.And they were best of five sets.Five sets of singles and doubles every tournament. We played all year around. Top players of today restrict the number of weeks and only play singles,“ pointed out the International  .
 
 “Players want to play match every second day , which would be unheard of in our day . At Wimbledon we played singles every day, doubles every day, and mixed every day. Sometimes we played three matches a day if it rained. I won the US Open singles, doubles and mixed in one year (1959), and went back the next year and won them all again. No one is going to ever do that again because they don't play singles and doubles both.“
 
 Women's doubles title for Safarova, Mattek-Sands
 
 Second seeds Bethanie Mattek-Sands and Lucie Safarova won the   women's doubles title beating 12th-seeded Andrea Hlavackova and Peng Shuai 6-7 (47), 6-3, 6-3 on Rod Laver Arena.
 
 Other finals (doubles) Boys': YH Hsu (The)L Zhao (Chn) bt F Reynolds (NZL)D Vale (Por) 6-7 (8), 6-4, 10-5.Girls': B Andreescu (Can)C Branstine (USA) bt M ChwalinskaI Swiatek (Pol) 6-1, 7-6 (4).
 
 
