MUMBAI: In a first, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) informed the   on Monday that it will soon charge eight police officials in Mumbai for abetting “unnatural sex” among minor boys in the Agnelo   case. The  , though, said there was no evidence to charge them with the murder of Valdaris, a 25-year-old youth who was arrested in a theft case in April 2014, along with three  . Police claimed he was run over by a train when he tried to escape from custody. 

 On Monday, CBI counsel Hiten Venegaonkar informed a bench of Justices Ranjit More and Shalini Phansalkar Joshi that “the offence under Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code, which deals with unnatural sex, was investigated, and an additional   will soon be filed against the police for   before a special court.”
 
 The high court was hearing a 2014 petition filed by Agnelo’s father, Leonard Valdaris, seeking a CBI probe into his son’s alleged custodial death, which he feared was murder. The petition was filed after a probe by Mumbai police merely chargesheeted eight policemen, then attached with Wadala Government Reserve Police (GRP), with Section 323 for voluntarily causing hurt, wrongful confinement and conspiracy—not murder.
 
 The high court had passed various orders in the past two years. Last December, after being critical of CBI for “not invoking proper sections while filing the chargesheet”, it directed the agency to probe the unnatural sex and murder angle again and gave it two months to do so.
 
 Three co-accused, one of whom was a minor at that time, later recalled how cops “brutally tortured” Valdaris till he could barely stand. A witness had alleged that he was made to “perform unnatural acts on a minor”.
 
 Venegaokar submitted and read out from an additional probe report. He later said, “This is the first time that police officials will be charged with an offence under Section 377 read with Section 108 (abetment) of the IPC in Mumbai.” 
 
 Last month, the CBI had chargesheeted the police for committing offences under the Protection of Children against Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act.
 
 In November 2016, Yug Chaudhary, counsel for Agnelo’s father, had complained that the police had merely been chargesheeted for minor offences, even though he said “allegations made in the complaint clearly disclose the commission of an offence under Section 377 read with abetment and at least culpable homicide not amounting to murder, if not murder”. 
 
 Venegaonkar had then said that the CBI was in the process of filing a separate chargesheet under the Pocso Act and had sought time to probe allegations of sodomy against the cops.
 
 Last December, after the CBI said it found no evidence of sodomy or of custodial death or murder based on “statements made by three doctors and three independent witnesses,” the bench had expressed its disapproval.
 
 In its December 19 order, a bench of Justices More and A M Badar had said, “Prima facie, the statement recorded by the CBI itself discloses murder or culpable homicide and Section 377 read with Section 108 of the IPC.”
 
 As abettors of unnatural offence, the cops would attract up to 10 years’ imprisonment and fine.
 
 The high court posted the matter to March 9 when the CBI will argue why no murder case was made out.
 
 
