You have your heart in your mouth when you see them perilously hanging from the train compartment doors, climbing on top of moving bogies, skidding on the platform or dodging electric poles that line the sides of the railway tracks. Well, we’re talking about Mumbai’s train surfers. If you are a frequent traveller in the local trains, you would have often come across these junkies — mostly teenage boys — who perform dangerous   in trains, much to the alarm of bewildered, shocked commuters. Their antics can range from silly to dangerous. With their lightening-speed reflexes, these youngsters don’t just dodge railway cops but also death. This isn’t daredevilry, just plain foolishness. While we’ve read stories about their accidents in newspapers, now, there’s a documentary made on them. 
The short film, 'Train Surfers', by New York-based director  , follows a group of four school dropouts from slums in suburban  , who apart from playing cards and zooming around on motorbikes, attempt stunts in trains. BT finds out what makes these youngsters risk their lives... 
 
 
 It isn’t ticketless travelling or crowded compartments that prompt these youngsters to hang at the doors. The most compelling reason is to escape the boredom of their lives. Adrien, who tracked down these phantom surfers after reading local news stories of teenagers getting arrested for train surfing, shares, “I had never seen anything like this before. It was a strange mix of daredevilry and danger. There was something intriguing about seeing these boys risk their lives with no intention other than to feel something more than boredom. I instantly decided to document it. Train surfing is an outlet for these youngsters to feel a stronger emotion.”
 One of the train surfers from Kurla, who features in the documentary, talks about why he continues doing   stunts even after sustaining injuries. He shares, “In the beginning, I was very scared. But as I grew older, the fear subsided. I have injured my arm and legs after I fell down once while doing stunts. Sometimes, I wonder what will happen if I fall again. So, there is a little fear, but I will keep doing it because I enjoy it.” His friend adds, “My family has asked me not to do these stunts as they can be fatal but I ignore their warnings. Mujhe darr nahi lagta. Risking my life doesn’t bother me. We just want to enjoy ourselves. We’ll deal with the consequences later.” These days, some boys even record their acts on their phones and upload the footage on social media, where the videos register thousands of views. 
 
 
 The boys agree that their antics annoy fellow passengers, but that doesn’t stop them from doing what they do. Even encounters with the railway police don’t deter them. One of them shares, “Commuters get upset when we perform stunts and complain to the police. We’re very scared of the cops because they beat us. Cases have been registered against us and the police can round us up. They enter the compartments in plain clothes but we can spot them because of their personality. At that point, we sit quietly in the compartment. Once they’ve gone, we resume our stunts.”
 
 Though there is no specific law against train surfers in the country, it is still an illegal act and offenders are punished under various ways. The Mumbai Railway Police often detains people for travelling on rooftop or doing stunts. According to the rules, anyone ‘travelling dangerously’ on a Mumbai local train can be fined `500, or imprisoned for three months, or both. But more often, young train surfers are beaten up. An official from the Central Railway tells us, “It’s difficult to nab these boys. In the past, we’ve identified them through videos that they post online and have even caught them in the act. We try to counsel them and explain that they can lose their lives due to one small mistake. But they know no fear. Some of the parents are unaware that their kids are involved in these activities. To curb the menace of passengers travelling on top of trains, the railway ministry has started a campaign to stop train surfing.” 
 
 Though many youngsters are proud of their stunts, there are some who have understood the danger it poses. Take the case of teenager Zaid Ansari, who suffered serious injuries while hanging from a moving train in the city a few years ago. After a close shave with death, he realised how precariously he was living and has now taken it upon himself to advise others against the dangerous fad that often turns fatal. In fact, he has joined the drive against train surfing and is the face of the campaign. 
 
 
 Apart from India, this sort of train parkour is also popular among teens in South Africa, Russia, Germany and other European countries.
 
 
 
 
