GHAZIABAD: A 27-year-old biker fell to death from the edge of a half-constructed   in Ghaziabad on Monday morning. No barricades had been placed at the entry point of the flyover, which is located near the Meerut T-point on GT Road, nor at its termination point, which resulted in the biker driving through.

 Construction work on the flyover, a grade separator, has been stalled for more than a year, owing to forest clearance for the project that is caught in red tape. The flyover, being constructed by the GDA, aims to ease traffic movement at the intersection where New Link Road meets GT Road.
 
 The victim, identified as Deepak, a resident of Rohtas Nagar in Delhi, worked for NDMC. He was taken to a government hospital by a ‘108’ ambulance after being informed by passersby.
 
 According to locals, the accident occurred at 6.30am. “The biker was riding at great speed when he flew off the flyover’s edge and landed several feet below. His helmet was crushed and he was barely breathing when we reached near him,” said Ankit, an eyewitness.
 
 According to police, Deepak was driving from Dadri towards Delhi when he ascended the flyover. “We were informed about his death only through a memo from the hospital. A postmortem has been conducted,” said Sanjay Kumar, the local police outpost in-charge.
 
 Concrete boulders and a rusty steel barricade had been hastily placed at the entrance to the flyover when TOI reached the spot. There were multiple skid marks of vehicles near the edge of the flyover.
 
 According to police, another biker had fallen off the flyover on Sunday night but survived the fall because of timely medical help. The police identified the survivor as  , a resident of Khoda.
 
 Tarun, an executive with HDFC Bank, told TOI on Monday that he was taken to a hospital by a PCR van. He was discharged from hospital after treatment of injuries to his arms, legs and hip.
 
 “I was driving home from a friend’s house in   a little after midnight. There were no barricades in place. Nor was there any warning sign at the spot. I drove my bike straight into the flyover thinking the road is connected to NH-24. I flew down the unprotected edge before I could slow down,” Tarun said.
 
 SP (traffic) Rajesh Kumar claimed that barricades had been placed at the entry point. “Even a precautionary signboard had been installed. We are trying to figure out if the barricades had been removed and how the biker managed to get through, if at all. The entry point of the flyover had been barricaded by the GDA after construction work came to a standstill,” Kumar told TOI.
 
 The GDA, meanwhile, constituted a commission of inquiry to probe the biker’s fatal fall on Monday. GDA vice-chairman Vijay Yadav said it was unfathomable how the biker fell such a long distance away from the flyover’s edge. “There are protruding steel rods at the edge of the flyover and it is surprising the biker did not get entangled there. When work had been stalled on the flyover, we had placed synthetic barriers at the entry point,” Yadav said.
 
 He said a two-member panel of officials has been asked to conduct a detailed inquiry into the accident and submit its findings within 15 days. “The central government's forest department office in Lucknow has assured us that the clearance will be provided soon to resume the pending work,” Yadav said.
 
 GDA officials said that a 132-metre stretch of the flyover was yet to be completed. They said the site of the incomplete portion of the flyover comes under a protected forest area for which clearance is required from the central government. A clearance proposal sent by the GDA to the forest department had been returned with certain objections. A revised proposal was sent by the GDA to the divisional forest officer (DFO) of Ghaziabad last month. The proposal, which has been cleared by the DFO and the forest conservator in Meerut, has been sent to the chief conservator of forests in Lucknow.
 
 
