PUNE: Wearing a dhoti, a shirt and a Gandhi cap, five-time corporator Bapurao Karne’s appearance has not changed much since 1997, when he won as an independent candidate.

 Since then,  , as he is popularly called, has switched effortlessly from Congress to the NCP and now the  . He might have hopped from one party to another, but still won the election every single time. 
 
 “I began my innings and won as an independent candidate in 1997 when Congress refused to give me a ticket”, Karne told TOI. The Congress leaders perhaps realized their mistake and gave him the ticket in 2002. “It was a three-member panel system then and my other two colleagues were two women contesting for the first time. I ensured all of us won,” he said.
 
 Cut to 2007, and Congress refused to give him a ticket again. “By then I had become popular and some of my partymen started feeling threatened,” Karne claimed. He went on to woo the NCP and secured a ticket for the civic body polls for the third time. Getting an NCP ticket in 2012 was not a problem either.
 
 However by Diwali 2016, Karne sensed it was time to become a turncoat again. “Huge banners carrying photographs of a builder and our party leader started appearing in my ward. I realized it was a warning bell and thought why not face the enemy instead of letting him stab me in the back?”
 
 Karne’s move of approaching the BJP for a ticket from panel 3D (Vimannagar-Somnathnagar) did not go down well with some supporters of the saffron party. “However, the CM ( ) told me to start campaign using the lotus symbol. I not only won the election, but also helped the three other BJP candidates in my panel to make it a clean sweep for the party,” he added.
 
 So wasn’t it difficult to adjust to a new party so many times and still win the elections? He promptly replies, “Whenever I changed the party, I took my supporters in confidence and even they moved to the party I joined every time.” 
 
 He adding that among all the parties he has moved to, BJP’s style of functioning is different. “They have a plan and a target for every worker. There is no such thing as planning in the Congress or the NCP and they also need to treat their workers better,” he said. 
 
 Karne, originally a teacher, had a formidable team of six software engineers to help him in his campaign this year. “Three of my sons, my daughter and son-in-law and my nephew are software engineers. In fact the software Rajyog developed by my nephew proved very effective,” he said. 
 
 Karne now plans to solve civic issues in the fringe areas of the city that have been newly included in his ward during his fifth tenure.
 
 
