BENGALURU:   is desperate. We must do something.

 Here, from a truly frugal  , are tips to cut usage by 70%-80%. If more Bengalureans follow this, the daily demand can  .
 
 I learnt to value water during childhood shortages in Chennai ­ use less, bathe more often. My one-mug bath ensured I bathed daily. Post-shortage, three-bucket baths re curred, till decades later, a chilling presentation describing a   shook me.Look at the online video `Letter in the year 2070' and you will not waste another drop again.
 
 So, here goes. You need warm water to shave shower, and run initial cold water down the drain (thousands guilty here!). Not any more; collect it in a bucketmug. Save the earth's most precious resource... The next time you open a tap, take a cold, hard look at whether you waste water. Is it open full-blast? You need just one-tenth the flow for facehandwashing. And 10 ml to dampen pre-soaping, another 30 ml to rinse. Contrast with 3-5 litres many use, tap gushing for 2-plus minutes, open even when not needed.
 
 Take my minimum water challenge: establish that bare minimum you need for washing shaving bathing. I bathe with three mugs (6-7 with hairwash), two of which are re claimed. Experiment, recalibrate, shock yourself. Do the three-mug bath. And if you believe that a bucket mug consumes less, yes and no. You may restrict your bath to one bucket. But a 25-litre bucket when three litres will suffice? Start being stingy , transform habits, slash usage.
 
 You use more soap   toothpaste than required. More water is needed to rinse. Reduce usage, discover how little soap water you really need. Cliched but noteworthy: leaking tap, three buckets wasted, fix immediately . Half-flush, brick in tank, aerators fitted on taps ­ all work.
 
 Never let water flow down the drain if it is good for something else. Recalibrate fresh-water usage. Use it only when essential . Mop with Reverse Osmosis (RO) waste water. No RO unit? Reuse mop-water for plants.
 
 To summarise; no full-blast ever again. Use less, reuse more. Save fresh water. Collective impact ­ monumental!
 
