Day 67 of the   house continues with the housemates getting a makeover.   gets a head massage done while   gets a blow dry. The beauty team bid the housemates adieu after they’re done prepping them all. Navdeep says that Archana should get the best makeover award. Archana tells Hariteja how she’s suffering because of how she is as a person. She tells her she’s still angry about what Diksha said. 

 On Day 68 they’re woken up with a song from ‘Nuvvostanante Nenoddantana’. Hariteja keeps talking and singing to the cameras, telling   she will miss the house. The housemates all talk to each other while Hariteja prepares them tea. Archana later tells them in the lawn that she had dreamt about Bigg Boss house and its contestants even before she was called to the house. 
 
 Bigg Boss asks Archana to wear her mike bag properly and the housemates ask him to not ask her so politely. Navdeep says the housemates are looking forward to Bigg Boss giving a finishing touch to his relationship with Archana, he asks him to scare her with lizards. The housemates all make fun of her when she gets scared of the idea itself. 
 
 Hariteja tells   she doesn’t have an nervousness about who will win, Sivabalaji agrees and says he feels the same because the journey itself was memorable enough. Archana later tells Hariteja that she thought she was still in the house because of love, but now she knows she has stayed so the housemates can pull her leg. She also tells her she doesn’t feel like a captain at all. 
 
 The housemates are given a task where they have to take selfies with various branded objects around the house. Later, Bigg Boss will collage them all together and show them their sweet memories. Sivabalaji makes the housemates banana crepes and serves it with ice cream and Navdeep cannot handle it! 
 
 Later, the housemates all sit in the lawn and Diksha walks in. The housemates are all happy to see her; she and Archana hug each other coldly. Navdeep brings up how she labelled them on the stage and asks her if she can talk about it. Hariteja also trips on her about the same till she gets irritated. Navdeep acknowledges that Diksha being sent in is the finishing touch to Bigg Boss’s relationship with Archana. Diksha keeps whining about how the audience perceive her. 
 
 Katti Karthika walks in and tells Archana they’re putting up cut-outs of her back home. Jyothi, Mahesh and Madhu Priya also walk in after a while. 
 
