BENGALURU:   N, a   resident, was hoping against hope that her worst fears were not true since Monday afternoon, when she was told that her only son,  , had met with an accident and taken to hospital. But the steady stream of relatives and friends and the grim look on their faces had left her in doubt whether all was well.

 A white   bearing the insignia of an ambulance, dashed her hopes. Her husband,  , broke the news to her that their son had been murdered, as he held her and took her near the ambulance. As Harsha's body was stretchered out, Annapurna broke into a wail and collapsed. Hemaraj, a close family relative who was arranging everything for the bereaved family, told TOI that they had no go but to hold back the news till Harsha's body reached home.
 
 “She is a BP and sugar patient. Had we broken the news on Monday itself, controlling her would have become difficult,“ he said.
 
 Family members had ensured that cable TV had been disconnected, lest Annapurna saw the news and learnt about her son's death.
 
 “She had sensed it. This morning, I gave Annapurna some biscuits and tea, and she told me that we were hiding something from her,“ Sarojamma, a neighbour said.
 
 Harsha's body was kept under a pandal put up in front of their home. His elder sister, a II PU student, sat in a corner, too shocked and shattered by the turn of events, tears rolling down her cheeks.
 
 Hundreds of mourners took part in Harsha's last journey to the burial ground at  , one km away. He was laid to rest around 3.30pm.
 
 TIMES VIEW
 
 Young Harsha's life, tragically cut short due to a small misunderstanding and rivalry, should set off alarm bells among parents, teachers and peers, on the violence lurking in young minds. Why and how matters reached this pass with Harsha's friends may probably never be known, but it does hold a message for society at large. Teenagers, who may be influenced by films and other media, need to be monitored subtly both at home and school. Any aberration in their behaviour needs close examination and some quick counselling on the futility of violence.
 
