JAIPUR:   cannot be bereft of drama, particularly when elections are round the corner.

 Quite expectedly, CP Joshi and Ruchir Modi filed their nominations for the president's post on Monday , the last day for the procedure. Just before 5 pm, the scheduled closing time for the nominations, Rajya Sabha MP and son of Dungarpur royal family   too jumped into the fray. The BJP leader is known to be close to chief minister Vasundhara Raje and it is believed that he would not have taken this step without consulting her.
 
 “Ruchir is our main candidate,”  , spokesman for the Lalit Modi camp, said. Abdi also filed his nomination for the president's post, but declared that he and Harshwardhan are “second” candidates from the camp, who had put in their names to show solidarity for the younger Modi. That would effectively mean that Harshwardhan and Abdi would withdraw their nominations on Sunday if Ruchir clears Saturday's scrutiny.
 
 Saturday, in fact, could find Ruchir up against a hurdle as the Joshi camp indicated that they would object against his candidacy as he hadn't completed four-year term as Alwar DCA president, which is a mandatory provision under the Rajasthan State Sports Act. Rampal Sharma of Bhilwara had already filed his nomination for the president's post, but he is a dummy for CP Joshi, in case the Congress leader decides to withdraw from the race. In a late decision, Sharma also filed his papers for the vice-president's post.
 
 Harshwardhan incidentally is the late Raj Singh Dungarpur's nephew. Raj Singh was known for his cricket administrative skills and had been a key member of the  . Although Harshwardhan, also the secretary of Dungarpur Cricket Association, is not known to be very active in the game, his entry into the   game of thorns adds a new dimension to the battle, given his lineage and political affiliation.
 
 The Modi camp could well have sprung Harshwardhan to “show the BJP hand” in its battle to retain control of RCA. CP Joshi being a Congress strongman, Monday's election could be more of a political potboiler than a simple cricketing affair.
 
 Sources told TOI that so far, neither BJP nor the state government has got itself involved in the RCA elections. However, pitching forth the Rajya Sabha MP could well be a tactic to draw in the ruling party in the state. The official line is of course that everyone is an individual and can file nominations without consulting anyone.
 
 As many as 25 nominations were filed for six posts which will see voting on Monday. Both the camps have fielded at least two candidates for every post. “This is to ensure our safety,” Rampal Sharma said. “In case one candidacy is rejected a second one to fall back on.”
 
 Although both camps are claiming majority, fence-sitters are keep them on tenterhooks. Abdi said few of their voters are also voters on the Joshi camp's list. Take for example of Azad Singh, Barmer DCA treasurer. He is the candidate for the treasurer's post from both the camps. “He was with us till today morning,”Abdi said. The Joshi camp, which claims support of 22 voters, said that Azad Singh had al camp. However, an assurance of the secretary's position got him back in the Modi camp. A Modi loyalist admitted that Nandu was a compromise candidate for them.
 
 Bharatpur DCA's vote will remain sealed as per Rajasthan High Court's order on Friday. This is a loss for the Modi camp. Both camps assured that their positions will be further strengthened by Monday morning. Given RCA's volatility, anything is possible.
