On June 25, city’s Dr   became the first Indian to complete the gruelling   ( ) solo in maiden attempt. He takes us on a ride that had many ups and downs, oscillated between hope and despair and which not just tested his physical endurance but also mental strength. He was acccompanied by a 16-member strong crew which kept him motivated through the 5,000km that he pedalled through deserts, mountains, rains, heat and cold, and helped him reach the   in good shape

 
 
 
 It was around 1pm at San Diego. I was on my bike ready to begin. My crew was right behind me. We all sang the national anthem holding a flag and it was very inspiring. No other participant did this and many were watching us. I told myself that this is the biggest race of my life and I will complete it. Another rider Andre Kajlich, a hand cyclist, was in front of me. I thought he didn’t have legs and was still attempting it. It was a very inspiring moment. A GPS device was put on my body and cycle. The first 50km were without support. It was an uphill ride till time station one and from there it was 20km downhill and was so steep that it’s called a glass elevator. You land into a desert. It is the transient zone of California and Arizona. The topography changes. It was still warm at 6pm. I pedalled through the night taking very short breaks to change my cycle. Reached time station 3 at day break.
 
 
 
 
 Still riding through Arizona, I took a short break at time station 4 where I changed to wear something lighter. Was feeling good. Reached Salome in the afternoon. Had been on the bike for 24 hours. I ate sandwiches and took liquid nutrition while on the saddle. It was very hot and I was developing symptoms of dehydration. The terrain was hot, arid and stony. My lips were chapping, BP was low. I took an hour’s break and slept. After taking liquids, I felt better and was good to go. I was riding through a mountain pass towards time station 6 in Congress. It is called the death zone of RAAM. I could feel the soreness in my throat. I had made a mistake by drinking ice cold water. Started feeling feverish but continued to pedal, reached Prescott and went uphill till Camp Verdi. It was pitch dark, there were hairpin bends but continued in the light coming from my crew’s vehicle.
 
 
 
 
 Stopped at Camp Verdi for a massage and coffee. Now, had to take antibiotics and antipyretic medicines. Crew was concerned but did not show, for the fear of demoralizing me. I wanted to keep going. I knew the sore throat would peak before healing. The body was under extreme stress. It was a 80km climb from Camp Verdi to Flagstaff in the afternoon. Reached Flagstaff where I changed my clothes. Had to guard myself from saddle sores and maintain hygiene. It was a downhill ride from here till Tuba city which is the end of Arizona and beginning of Utah. I slept for an hour before proceeding. It was a flat road and a very lonely ride.
 
 
 
 
 Had pedalled 1,200km and was moving through the beautiful Monument Valley of Utah. It is a spiritual place of native Americans. The crew was enjoying as this was real, raw America. I was constantly chatting with them and we were discussing old girlfriends, break-ups and what went wrong. All the crazy stuff. It was a journey of a lifetime. There were cut-off times and I had to reach Durango from where Colorado starts. I was beginning to feel tired. At Durango, I took a bath, the only one in 12 days. Slept for an hour, could have slept more but my crew talked me out of it. They said go slow but continue. Had coffee and resumed at midnight. Just around day break I took a half an hour nap in the vehicle.
 
 
 
 Reached Pagosa early morning and pedalled 20km uphill through Wolf Creek pass. Riders struggle during this stretch but I went non-stop. Was listening to Bollywood music, Bryan Adams and was feeling cheerful. Colorado is every cyclists dream. The downhill is 40km and then flat roads. I moved to reach La-Veta around 5pm. I had to move quickly to Trinidad to another big mountain pass Cuchara. It is the last climb. A media team of RAAM was there. I was appreciated for my consistency.
 
 
 
 
 Reached Trinidad by midnight and took an hour’s break to sleep. The crew wanted me to continue after a short nap to be ahead of others. We were on Kansas border. They are the beautiful plains of America. I kept riding as wind speed is low in the morning. I was drinking coffee and talking to my crew and assuring them that my legs were fine but I needed to sleep to keep my mind alert. As night fell, we saw lots of falling stars, the clear sky and millions of fireflies. It was magical. I was halfway through the race. I reached El dorado and slept for one-and-a-half hour out in the open in a sleeping bag.
 
 
 
 
 Reached Missouri where I had to do 300km of uphill and downhill roads. This kind of ride is very technical. I loved it and we reached Mississippi cut off in the afternoon. It is a landmark as 2/3 of the race is over here. I was thinking that there are just 2-3 days more to complete this monster race.
 
 
 
 
 It was mindless riding through the state of Illinois, Indiana on flat state highway. I took no major stops but fatigue was accumulating. I told myself do the rituals and keep gong till Ohio and Virginia which was another tough climb.
 
 
 
 Took a stop at Bloomington to sleep for an hour. My crew was tracking my eating as I had to consume 8,000 calories in a day. Sandwiches made with almond and peanut butter, tuna were all part of the diet. My mother, who was travelling in a caravan, made fresh halwa for me. We were like a marriage party with one SUV ahead of me and other following me. My crew members were naive innocent first timers who were in love with me. They suffered my tantrums, my fits of anger and would even dance on the road to keep me in good humour. 
 
 
 
 
 I cycled non-stop through Ohio as it was flat road and I knew I would need time to do the Appalachian mountain range in West Virginia and Maryland which was not high but steep.
 
 
 
 
 I rode 150km through Athens to West Union through storm and rain. I was cold, wet and sleepy. The huge forest trees on both sides appeared like dinosaurs. I think I was hallucinating. The ride took a toll on my mind. I could not differentiate between dream and reality. I was crying, thinking that I had made a mistake by taking a break and wanted to correct it. Jitendra Naik, who was heading the crew, thought I would give up and was very worried. He told me to just get back on the cycle.
 
 
 
 
 I knew I had lost time. I had to go through the most feared time sections of RAAM through MC Henry, Chamber Land, Hancock. I took just one 2-minute break to change into my official T-shirt. This inspired me. I told Jeetu, ‘Sir ab aap dekho main kya karta huoon’. People in the race thought I was in some kind of a trance. They took off their helmets and said “respect respect”, which is a great thing for any cyclist. When I crossed Hancock the finish line was just 300km. I took half hours sleep and pedalled through the night.
 
 
 
 
 In the morning when I was 140km from the finish line, a feeling of emptiness began to creep in. It felt as if I was at the end of a spiritual trip. I was chatting with the crew, it all became boring suddenly. I lost my mind and felt I was in Goa and going around in circles. I began shouting at my crew. They told me not to argue and just do the last 20km. As I finished the race, all of them were crying. My mood was sombre, I was very quiet. We did the victory parade after which I reached my hotel where I ate and crashed on the bed.
 
 (As told to Barkha Mathur)
 
