BATHINDA: Bhagat Singh Memorial Foundation has succeeded in getting directions from the Lahore high court for security to those who want to observe the 86th martyrdom day of Bhagat Singh, Rajguru and Sukhdev at Shadman Chowk in Lahore, Pakistan. This is the place, then part of the Central Jail, Lahore, where the three martyrs were hanged on March 23,1931.

 As there is threat perception from some religious groups, Justice Abid Aziz Sheikh of the high court directed the Lahore's capital city police officer (CCPO) to provide security to those who come to pay tributes to the martyrs.
 
 Hundreds of persons assemble at Shadman Chowk, which is also known as  , every ye ar on March 23 to raise the demand for naming it after Bhagat Singh. Even plays on Bhagat Singh are staged there. In 2015, some religious groups had threatened the Bhagat Singh's followers and told them not to observe his martyrdom day. Posters warning the martyrs followers to stay away had come up at the venue.
 
 Bhagat Singh Memorial Foun dation chairman   told TOI over phone from Lahore, “I had filed a petition in the Lahore high court on March 18, to direct the police to provide foolproof security to all those who assemble at Shadman Chowk to pay tributes to the martyrs. Taking up the petition on Monday , Justice Abid Aziz directed the CCPO and Shadman station house officer (SHO) to provide security .“
 
 Imtiaz said his father  , who is a Supreme Court advocate, also appeared in the Lahore high court with him.“We have written to Punjab chief secretary, Lahore inspector general of police, Lahore deputy commissioner and Shadman station house officer to ensure safety of Bhagat Singh's followers,“ he said. He said their foundation had invited Indian high commissioner to Pakistan Gautam Bambawale to pay tributes to the martyrs on March 23. “There will be telephonic address by Bhagat Singh's nephew  , who lives in Canada, and other relatives of the martyr living in India, including his other nephew  ,“ said Imtiaz.
 
