PUNE: It’s not just voters who are irked by serious blunders in the electoral rolls and voter identity cards pertaining to wrong addresses and repeated names. Political leaders have also brought out the lapses in the roll and have said that the errors have not been rectified despite repeated follow-ups.

 The Bharatiya Janata Party’s ( ) city unit president   is those who recently expressed displeasure about errors in the voters’ list. 
 
 Gogawale said he wanted to change his address in the electoral roll after he shifted to a new home. However, despite repeated follow-ups he was not able to complete the process.
 
 “I shifted to a new place and subsequently applied for a change of address. Despite several submissions of applications, I was not able to make the change in the voters’ list and my voter ID. I can vote because my name is in the list but with an old address,” Gogawale said. 
 
 Abhay Chhajed, senior leader and former city unit president of  , has also pointed to the lapses in the electoral roll. Chhajed has a double entry of his name in the voters’ list. He wants to get one deleted and has been following up the issue with the election department. 
 
 “Since there were multiple entries I am trying to delete one of them. But I have not been able to succeed despite many follow-ups,” Chhajed said. 
 
 The city is set to go to polls on February 21. About 26 lakh voters will exercise their right to elect 162 corporators. Citizens said they were not sure if they would be able to vote because of the lapses in the electoral roll. 
 
 Vishal Deshpande, a resident of Shivajinagar area, was not able to find his name in the roll. He said he had tried to locate his name through a website but failed to find it. He will try to visit the polling booth on voting day, he added.
 
 Veena Wakde said a wrong address has been inserted in the voters’ list. “Besides that, the election authorities have not deleted the name of my relative who passed away four years ago,” she said. Sources in political parties said there was an urgent need to update the entire voters’ list to ensure that the names of only eligible voters are in it.
 
