AJMER: The CBI arrested two more in the sensational   atrocity case last week, taking the total number of accused taken into custody in the incident to 11.

 Six people were killed and several injured following a caste clash in   village, Nagaur district, in May 2015.
 
 Last December, the district court in Merta had issued warrants against 34 accused in the case.
 
 On Thursday, the court, which heard the case, asked the government to file a reply on the issue of providing compensation and jobs to victims and their relatives under the SC/ST Atrocity Prevention Act during the next hearing scheduled on April 11. 
 
 Advocate of victims   said that the government, district collector and officials of the social welfare department have been made parties in the case.
 
 Last week, CBI arrested Ramrath, son of  , and Papu, son of Danna Ram, and produced them before the court which sent them to judicial custody.
 
 Nine of the accused have already been arrested in the Dangawas incident, including three in the last month. The CBI is on the lookout for the rest. Over a hundred names had found mention in the original FIR filed after the attack.
 
 Considering the sensitivity of the issue, the state government had first transferred the investigation to   and later to the CBI.
 
 The Dalits of Dangawas village were allegedly attacked by members of the Jat community following a land dispute in the village, resulting in the deaths of six people.
 
 Initially, the police arrested six people, including Premaram alias Premsukh Khadawa, Pancharam Jhajhar and four others, in the incident.
 
 After a gap of two years, one more FIR has been filed by victims against seven members of the Jat community under the atrocity prevention Act.
 
 One of the victims, Hemaram, had recently moved sub-divisional magistrate court stating that the road to his farm land has been closed down by Jats and demanded access to his farm land.
 
 The Nagaur police continue to maintain a police chowki in the village as tensions have once more returned after the new FIR was filed.
 
 Sources said that the Jat community, which dominates the village, was angry as six members of the community were behind bars for the last two years and the CBI and the local police were chasing many more of their youths wanted in the incident. The Jats are powerful in the region and politically well-connected.
 
