NAGPUR: The Maharashtra Co-operative Cotton Growers’ Marketing Federation, the only state-controlled body where the NCP-Congress combine is in power, elected a woman as its chairperson for the first time. Usha Shinde, from Yewala in Nashik district, was unanimously elected at a meeting of the board of directors on Tuesday. 

 It is also the first time that the post is going to a person outside Vidarbha. The federation is headquartered in the city.
 
 Shinde was chosen by her party leader Ajit Pawar over other party contenders specifically from Vidarbha which gets to hold this post as the region is the largest cotton producer in the state. She replaces Dr NP Hirani of Pusad in Yavatmal. He had a long stint of 16 years in the post.
 
 Before Hirani, prominent Vidarbha politicians like Pandurang Phundkar (current agriculture minister), cooperatives stalwart Babasaheb Kedar, Annasaheb Korpe and Babsaheb Dhabekar have been chairmen of the body.
 
 In the elections of directors held last month, 9 from the NCP and 8 from the   were elected. These 17 who met on Tuesday decided that NCP should get the chairman’s post while the deputy’s post would go to the Congress. State Congress president Ashok Chavan has put forth the name of Prasanjit Patil of Khamgaon in Buldhana for the deputy-chairman post.
 
 “I was one of the four contenders from the NCP for the post. I am glad the party chose me and Congress supported my candidature,” said Shinde talking to ToI on Wednesday. “I will work hard to protect interests of cotton growers of the state which has country’s largest area under cotton cultivation.” 
 
 The federation had its heydays in 70s and 80s when it managed the state’s unique cotton monopoly purchase scheme. Under it,   had to compulsorily sell cotton to the federation at its procurement centres at a price fixed by the federation on the government’s advice. The federation then sold the processed cotton bales in domestic market or exported them. Farmers were paid generous bonus amounts over and above MSP.
 
 All this came to end over a decade ago with mounting losses to the tune of Rs5000 crore that the federation incurred. The monopoly scheme was abandoned and farmers were allowed to sell produce to private traders. The last business that federation of selling packaged Bt cotton seeds that federation undertook couple of years ago also had to be discontinued as it ran into losses.
 
 “We protect cotton growers by interventions like purchasing at MSP. If we do not play our standby role, private traders would exploit the situation and rig the prices below MSP,” said Shinde.
 
 
