HYDERABAD: Telugus in the   (USA) have been advised on how to stay safe and not provoke locals who may not be too happy to see Indians prosper. The advise ranges from asking Indians not to flaunt their expensive vehicles and drawing attention to their position and earnings.

 Telugus from Telangana who have settled in the US are taking measures to prevent themselves from getting into trouble with Americans with a racist bent of mind and are also giving out suggestions. A meeting of the   (TATA) was organized in Washington on February 27 where issues of concern to Telugus were discussed.
 
 In the aftermath of the 
  , an aviation engineer from Hyderabad working for Gramin in Olathe, Kansas, USA, on February 22, the association is of the opinion that Telugus should take necessary precautions. Srinivas' colleague and friend Alok Madasani was injured in the shootout in Austin's Bar and Grille.
 
 
  
 
 
 In a telephonic conversation from Hanford, California, TATA president Jhansi Reddy told TOI that while some immediate precautions needed to be taken, a long-term plan of action was also required. “We know there is a lot of fright in Hyderabad, or for that matter in India, after the Olathe incident but people here are not so worried. There have been a couple of incidents in which two Indians (both from Telangana) were shot dead but we are hopeful things will settle down,“ she said. Reddy said one of the most important things that Telugus (or Indians) need to do is mingle and socialize with Americans so that they get to know them and understand their culture. “Being aloof can create suspicion in anybody's mind. We have to free ourselves from the mentality of keeping with our own flock,“ she said.
 
 She added that IndianAmericans should show more inclination towards getting into politics. “Having our people as representatives would mean that we can have a say and our voice will be heard,“ she said. “Everyone wants to take up jobs but not many think of taking up politics as a career,“ she pointed out.
 
 In addition, she said Indians should participate in fund-raising for politicians during elections. The idea is when they get elected, they will look into the issues of Indians in the US and speak up for them.
 
