THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Top seed   exacted revenge over second seed N   by winning the title in the IndianOil XtraPremium $15000   which concluded at   here on Saturday. Prajnesh won 7-5, 6-3 in 1 hour 43 minutes.

 The rivals, who are in the six-member Indian   squad, entered the final with the hope of boosting their chances of figuring as the fourth playing member in the Asia Oceania Group-I Davis Cup encounter against Uzbekistan next month in Bengaluru and it looks like Prajnesh might sneak in after his gutsy all-round display particularly after coming from 3-5 down, in the first set under the sultry weather.
 
 The summit clash looked like going to be marathon one as Balaji who beat his off court friend and on court rival Prajnesh exactly a week ago in the fifth leg at Bengaluru final was up 4-2 lead and 5-3. Trailing 0-40 on his serve in the ninth game and under pressure, Balaji was pulled by chair umpire for code violation for racquet abuse and never really recovered.
 
 Prajnesh not only capitalised from there on by winning the big points and engaged his rival on rallies while pinning him at baseline. At the same time, even drops shots deserted Balaji several times and his smashes went out as Prajnesh cantered home to pocket the first set.
 
 Before the start of the second set, Prajnesh took a medical time out to take care of his sore shoulder with Davis Cup near he did not want to take any risk.
 
 In the semifinals and capturing doubles title on Friday, Balaji performed near flawless tennis but coming to final he looked a bit jaded. With sun showing no mercy and on clay courts, play was tough for both. Prajnesh fought well, breaking Balaji in sixth game to take crucial lead 4-2. Holding on his serve in the seventh, Balaji sent a kind of warning by sending in two aces while making it 4-3.
 
 Prajnesh not only held his serve but went on break his rival in the next. Poor Balaji saw his return hitting net twice in succession and in crucial deuce he saw his smash going out to hand the title to Prajnesh.
 
 "Kudos to Prajnesh he played extremely well. I was jittery and was defensive. I messed up with the chances I got in the first set. If I had won that it would have been different tale to say as he was also looking tired. Moreover, I took risk by taking drop shots but did not execute well," Balaji said. He added that he will return to his base at Frankfurt in Germany after national duty.
 
 "I wanted to break into the top 250 ranking so that I can play in the US Open in August. By playing in more ITF Futures and Challenger tournaments I hope to garner 60 points in the next couple of months."
 
 Prajnesh reiterated the fact that he is a fighter. "I loved to fight till the last point. That's how I bounced back from 3-5. I won some big points too," said Prajnesh of his triumph. Prajnesh who will be donning India colours for the first time in Bengaluru said he is clueless about his chance to play. "I'm happy to win here. I hope it will be noticed by the selectors," said Prajnesh.
 
