In the late 90s, when he was a minister for the first time in Maharashtra,   charted a different course by the pace of his work of building flyovers in Mumbai and the Expressway between Mumbai and Pune. Two decades later, even as he turns 60, he refuses to slow down.

 After graduating to the Centre, he is determined on creating new national and world records in road works.
 
 To mark the successful completion of the Narendra Modi-led BJP government’s three years in office, in which Gadkari and his ministry of roads are star performers, the PM dedicated to the nation the   bridge, a new landmark in the country’s infrastructure, in Assam on Friday. By awarding more than 16,000km road works in the last financial year, Gadkari has created a record of sorts.
 
 Amid all these personal highs and accolades, Gadkari has one regret — he could not achieve good results as far as the war for safety on roads is concerned.
 
 “There has been an increase of 4% in road accidents since the traffic increased with new roads. The country’s road safety record is dismal. We have 5 lakh road accidents on an average in a year, and around 1.5 lakh people die in these mishaps. What makes it more tragic is that the victims are mostly from 18 to 40 age group, thus affecting the next generation of the nation,” he said.
 
 Talking exclusively to TOI at 2, Akbar Road, his official residence in New Delhi, Gadkari says the road safety issue would now be his priority. “We have prepared a Rs 11,000 crore plan to address this problem. After much consultations and involving all MPs and MLAs, we have identified 726 black spots (accident prone zones) on highways and main roads across the country. The work to increase safety measures has already begun,” said Gadkari.
 
 The interventions to reduce road risks would involve bypasses, underpasses, and flyovers as per the prevailing conditions. Another area that would be under focus is tightening of norms for issuing driving licences.
 
 “It is said that almost 60% of licence holders have not even appeared for a basic qualifying test. We want to make amendments in Motor Vehicles Act and make it stricter to get driving permits. We also plan to open 2,000 driving training centres,” he added.
 
 When Gadkari took over the roads ministry, the rate of highway building was less than 3km a day in that quarter of 2014. Today, it has gone up to 23km a day, and he wants to scale it up to 41. From 98,000km network of national highways, Gadkari is on the way to building 1.78 lakh km highways.
 
 He also has grand plans ahead, from building 13 new express highways to planning two new subsidiaries of the  . One of the subsidiaries will construct express highways while the other will execute overseas projects.
 
