THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: With many students taking the   after getting caught for indulging in malpractices in examination hall, teachers say they are facing a catch 22 situation.

 Unlike the past, invigilation duty, according to them, is now the most stressful part of teaching profession.Since abstaining from examination duty is not always possible, many teachers try to turn a blind eye towards the malpractice rather than act like a corrective force. Instances were teachers are threatened or attacked by students have also been reported from colleges and schools in the state.
 
 “The instances of suicide of students who get caught while copying make headlines. In such cases, teachers are invariably painted as villains.Nobody seems bothered about the predicament of a teacher in the role of an invigilator,“ said  , a higher secondary teacher with a government school here. Nizar feels that students are victims of our education system. “Now copying is rampant in schools and the higher secondary level. But no invigilators dare to report copying. The maximum we can do is to advise them not to indulge in copying," said Nizar. Students alone are not the culprits. There are schools, both government, aided and unaided, that prompt students to indulge in mass copying for the sake of improving or retaining their pass percentage.“Most students indulge in malpractices without knowing the conse quences. It's time that we provide immediate counselling to students who are caught for malpractices,'' said K L Vivekanandan, general sec retary,  .
 
 According to  , president, Kerala Pradesh School Teachers' Association, the misinterpretation of child rights Act and unscientific education methods have worsened the situation in Kerala schools. Unlike in the past, no teacher is supposed to punish any student for any of his/her faults.“The mental makeup of students have become so fragile that they are unable to cope up with any challenges in real life," he said.
 
 There is a risk in reporting malpractice to higher authorities. If the student take any extreme step, the entire world would blame the teacher. Even criminal case would be registered against them. Even if there is no such instance, the risk is again with the teacher. It's his/her responsibility to prove that the student has indeed indulged in copying," he said.
 
