AHMEDABAD: Faced with cash crunch   coupled with dampened sentiment, consumers are increasingly opting for gold recycling -purchase new jewellery in   ornaments. As a result, the amount of recycled gold in overall jewellery purchases increased from 10%15% to 25%-30% after demonetisation.

 “In the last two months, 50% of our customers -mainly from rural and semi-urban areas -have purchased new jewellery in exchange of old gold ornaments held by them. The percentage of such customers going for gold recycling was 20% before November,“ said Manoj Soni, a city-based jeweller.
 
 The trend is equally true among the middle-class urban population. Nainesh Patchigar, chairman, gems and jewellery committee ­ Southern Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SGCCI), said, “Gold recycling trend has increased phenomenally in the urban populace after demonetization. The gold recycling in Surat and south Gujarat has increased by almost 25% since November-2016.“
 
 According to jewellers, there is a huge loss in the business since demonetization was announced by the government.“Most of our regular customers from rural areas surrounding the city , who had marriages in their family , preferred recycling of gold ornaments than going in for the fresh purchases,“ said  , a jeweller at Choksi Bazaar in Surat.
 
 In fact, gold recycling has gone up across the country . A re port by   states that the total gold recycled in India in 2016 was 89.6 tonne, which was 12% higher than 80.2 tonnes recycled in 2015.
 
 “After the government made PAN card compulsory for transactions above Rs 2 lakh, we lost most of our rural customers as many of them still don't have a PAN card or Aadhaar card. The situation further worsened after demonetization wherein, absence of digital payments led people to defer their gold purchases or else, recycle old jewellery for wedding purchases. Due to this, our effective turnover has gone down significantly,“ said Jigar Soni, a citybased jeweller.
 
 (With inputs from Melvyn Reggie Thomas)
 
 Notebandi dents Tirupati donations
 
 Call it the effect of demonetisation. Devotees trekking to the seven hills for a darshan of Lord Balaji may have to shell out more for tickets and various temple services. The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanam is mulling raising the rates for various services after a dip was noted in the daily revenue of the temple post-demonetisation.
 
