NAGPUR: CBSE’s decision to implement ‘full course’ evaluation from 2018 Std X board exams has led to some   the ‘lengthy’ Social Science Studies (SST) course.

 A city school’s teacher said, “For SST-1 and SST-2, now students will be studying around 25 chapters, which is a   It would be great if the central board revises the curriculum to at least make it more practical for us.” Till now students were required to study only half of that course for board exams under the Continuous and Comprehensive Evaluation (CCE) scheme, which becomes defunct after the current board exam gets over. 
 
 Another CBSE school teacher said, “It’s going to be really tough for the students and we plan to finish the course as early as possible so that the students get ample time to revise. They’ll also have to appear for three unit tests during the session.”
 
 A few students of Std X told TOI that the   has become a major concern for them. One student said, “Mugging up so many chapters at once is going to be a really difficult task. We will have to start studying from day one and there will be no scope of slacking or procrastinating.”
 
 Another student of Std IX said “I’m really worried because I’m not that good in SST and now my sole focus will be completing the syllabus and improving my time  .” Her classmate said, “It will become really crucial to study for the SST exam from the beginning of the session. CBSE has taken such a huge step. I hope that they do something to lessen the burden on us like for example, giving easy question papers.”
 
 Student Soniya Gupta, who is appearing for her Std X, said she feels lucky to not be part of the 2018 board exam. “I feel relieved that we are not the batch that will have to go through this tumultuous decision. But one thing that will come out good for our juniors is that they won’t have to submit as many projects as we had to.”
 
 Senior academicians from the city looked at the problem differently, saying number of chapters is not the right parameter. A city school principal said, “The content is key and I feel number of chapters won’t matter. SST’s biggest challenge is that it is a dry subject and hence teachers will have an uphill task with the full-course curriculum.”
 
 Another senior academician and a former city school principal said, “The problem gets compounded also because too much content is being cramped into the curriculum due to which depth and focus of the content gets missed out. So it is not only important to know when the World War-II was fought but also what were the reasons for other countries getting involved. Some subjects are skill-based while some are content-based, which needs to be kept in mind.” 
 
 
