METTUR (SALEM): This is virtually a carnage wrought by nature. Over 500 carcasses of cattle are lying scattered in the forests near Govindapadi, Yemanur, Gobinatham, Jamburruttipattu and   on the state's border with Karnataka. 

  The   surrounding these villages have given way to   with   and with no undergrowth.   in the forests never had difficulty   and water. But the total absence of rain in the region has changed all that.
 
  Villagers say these cows and bulls have died in the past 25 days due to lack of fodder and water. They lament they have no option but to leave these animals to die in the forests near the  
 
  Each villager rears 20-60 cows and sells milk within Mettur and also to Karnataka. Some of them who have agricultural land near the Cauvery banks use bulls and cows for ploughing and other irrigation-related activities.
 
  "I own 32 cows. Due to drought, eight of them died in the past one week," said S Govindasamy, a villager at Gobinatham. He told TOI that another 10 cows looked very weak and may die any time.
 
  He said most of the villagers have lost their cows in the past 25 days due to severe water shortage. "We have to walk a long way to get water from springs and other water bodies. How will we give water to cows when we ourselves do not have enough to quench our thirst," asked S Bakkiyam, another villager. She has already lost four of her 25 cows.
 
  Not long ago, the villagers used to take the cows and bulls for grazing in the forest areas. The livestock could get enough fodder from the land and quench their thirst in Cauvery. Now the forests are looking dry and the emaciated cattle can be seen listlessly wandering looking for food and water.
 
  A few of the farmers can afford to buy water for their cows. Some others are selling their cows for a meagre sum for slaughtering. But most people are abandoning their cattle in the forest.
 
  Villagers at Govindapadi, Gobinatham, Jamburruttipattu and Yemanur say more than 500 cow carcasses are found abandoned in the forest areas. They say that instead of selling the cows for just Rs 800, it's better to allow them to die in the forest.
 
  When contacted by TOI, secretary of Tamil Nadu Animal Husbandry Department Gagandeep Singh Bedi said he would look into the issue at the earliest. "The state government had allotted Rs.78 crore to save cattle from drought," he said. He added that the government had opened depots across the state to sell cattle fodder at cheaper rates. "We are ready to open the fodder depots wherever it is necessary," he said.
 
