CHENNAI: In a sign that the ground is being laid for 
  of Tamil Nadu, senior party leader and Lok Sabha deputy speaker M 
  the reins of the government. Her taking over as AIADMK general secretary had also been preceded by statements from party leaders over many days asking that she take charge of the party.

 Thambidurai, who was rumoured to be one of the possible choices for the party leadership after the death of J  , was at his effusive best. In a statement issued on his Lok Sabha letterhead on Monday, he said Sasikala had “the intelligence, capacity and love for the people, love for the party workers and care for the party cadres, as Amma had”.
 
 Party functionaries and workers wished that she should 
  at the earliest, Thambidurai said. Sasikala's decision to accept the party general secretary post had come at a time when all in the party were worried about what would happen to the Dravidian movement after the demise of J Jayalalithaa, he said. Sasikala had “come to rescue all of us as a lighthouse,“ Thambidurai said.
 
 She had the capacity to take decisions “without any likes or dislikes,“ and also thought exactly the same way as Jayalalithaa used to think, he said in the statement that made repeated references to Sasikala as 'Chinnamma'.
 
 Given the friction in his relationship with chief minister O Panneerselvam, Thambidurai sought to build up a case for change of guard at Fort St George, saying dual leadership for the party and government would not help both. “We have seen that people in India have not accepted the situation where the leadership of the party is in one hand and the leadership of the government is in another hand. Such governments have lost their credibility among the people,“ he said. Moreover, to take the agenda set by Jayalalithaa forward, the party leader had to take over the chief minister post also, he said.
 
 The speech of Sasikala, close on the heels of her taking over the reins of the party, was a major morale booster for the workers and leaders, Thambidurai said.
 
 
