JAISALMER: Heavy rains in Barmer have now converted into light drizzle, however, the   and water has entered many villages, causing damage. With  , at least 60 villages are cut off from other areas. At  , the traffic has been stopped due to water flowing on the highway. Apart from this, many roads are inundated or have been washed away due to which traffic has been blocked. Gudamalani, the most affected area, has witnessed 736mm rain till now and 30,000-35,000 people in Barmer have been affected.

 Till Saturday night, the district administration had rescued over 300 people and district collector Shiv Prasad Nakate himself has been going to affected places with the rescue teams to deliver food packets to villagers. Even now there are many people who are stuck in flood-hit areas and NDRF and local administration are trying to rescue them. This time in flood-affected Jalore, Pali, Sirohi and Barmer districts, the state disaster control department has worked very efficiently, sent NDRF teams to the affected spots and has been able to rescue a large number of people. The disaster management department claimed that this time no one drowned and all were rescued safely. The floods have caused damages worth crores of rupees and assessment is being done.
 
 District collected Shiv Prasad Nakate said that on Saturday night around 300 people stuck in one dozen villages in Gudamalani and Dhorimanna were rescued. Till now, over 2,000 people have been rescued and sent to safer areas. The district administration is making all arrangements for rescued people including shelter, food, water ,etc. These people have been accommodated in government schools and buildings.
 
 He said relief camps have been set up at four places in the district which received excess rains. Apart from this, people have been given tent, tarpaulin, food items, etc. He added that Rs 3,800 have been given to each family whose house has been affected by rains. Survey of the affected area is going on.
 
 He added that the families whose kachha houses collapsed will be given Rs 90,000 as compensation. Similarly, on death of a goat Rs 3,000 will be given where the maximum number of goats can go up to 30. On death of cow, buffalo or camel, the owner will be given Rs 30,000, with maximum number of cattle not going beyond three. He said all cattle in the affected areas were rescued and on demand, fodder will be arranged.
 
 
