HYDERABAD: Was it a worth the sacrifice?  's move to opt for all-rounder Mohammad Nabi in place of the in-form Kane Williamson had raised quite a few eyebrows. But the move paid off richly as the hosts got a much-needed victory under their belt with a seven­wicket win over a strong   side at the Rajiv Gandhi International Cricket Stadium, here on Monday night.

 
 
 The win has helped Sunrisers, who have 15 points, strengthen their position in the points table. They still have one more game to go against Gujarat Lions in Kanpur and a win there will make sure of their place in the playoffs. If not, they will have to wait for the other results to know their fate.
 
 In front of a packed house, Nabi, who had played just a single game against Kings XI Punjab and had figures of 128, proved quite a handful for the hard-hitting Mumbai batsmen. The canny offspinner, who opened the bowling with Bhuvneshwar Kumar, kept the visitors guessing with his variations and bowled his full quota of four overs (113) on the trot.
 
 Later, leggie Rashid Khan kept the good work going as he yet again proved very difficult for the batsmen to read with his variations. The teen wonder had figures of one for 22 off his four overs. The Afghani duo (8-0-35-2) had Mumbai on the ropes as they never really recovered from it. The visitors could manage a modest 138 for seven with skipper   waging a lone battle with a 45-ball 67 (6x4, 2x6).
 
 Sunrisers suffered an early jolt as skipper   (6) was trapped leg before by Mitchell McClenaghan with seven on the board. However, fellow opener   and Moises Henriques (44) calmed the home side's nerves.
 
 The duo took on the Mumbai attack and tore it to shreds. Runs came at a steady pace as the Sunrisers bats men found the going quite easy. The duo added an invaluable 91 off 66 balls for the second wicket.
 
 
 
 
 Hyderabad's win over Mumbai on Monday meant Delhi Daredevils' playoff chances in IPL-10 was over. The win put Sunrisers in the fourth spot on 15 points and Delhi, with 8 from 11 games, cannot now finish in the top-4 which would have given them a playoff berth. Mumbai are already through to the knockouts while four teams -Kolkata, Pune, Hyderabad and Punjab -are vying for the three remaining slots.
 
