NEW DELHI: India will soon ratify the second commitment period (2013-2020) of the 1997   on containing emission of green house gases (GHGs). The Union   gave its approval for the ratification on Tuesday.

 Under the Kyoto Protocol (KP) which had become operational in 2005, only developed countries are mandatorily required to undertake mitigation (emission cuts) targets and provide financial resources and transfer of technology to the developing nations.The first commitment period of the Protocol ended in 2012.Though amendment to its second commitment period (2013-2020) was adopted in 2012, only 75 countries have, so far, ratified it. A total of 144 countries are required to ratify the amendment for bringing it into force.
 
 “Inview of the critical role played by India in securing international consensus on climate change issues, this decision further underlines the country's leadership in the comity of nations committed to global cause of environmental protection and climate justice“, said a government statement after the Cabinet meeting which was chaired by PM  . It said, “Ratification of the Kyoto Protocol by India will encourage other developing countries also to undertake this exercise“.
 
 It is believed that the implementation of Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) projects under the KP's second commitment period will attract some investments in India as well. The KP was adopted in 1997, recognising that the developed countries are principally responsible for the current high levels of GHGs in the atmosphere. Developing countries like India and China have no mandatory mitigation obligations or targets under the Kyoto Protocol.
 
 Since the   Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) seeks to stabilise GHGs concentrations in atmosphere at a level that would minimize interference with the climate system, the global community had in December, 2015 adopted another agreement in Paris which is meant for being operationalised post-2020 (end of the KP's second commitment period).
 
 Unlike the KP which requires only developed countries to take mandatory actions, the Paris Agreement mandates all countries to take action.
 
