Not every music reality show winner has gone on to become a success, but singer   is surely one. 

 The youngster's kitty has been full of songs which went on to become chartbusters, like Pranantenalangal in Thattathin Marayathu or Anthichoppil from Vikramadityan. He has proved that he can carry off any song ' be it in Malayalam, Kannada, Telugu or Tamil with the same magical touch. Kochi Times caught up with Yazin, who has worked with established music composers such as Ouseppachan, Ilayaraja, Vidyasagar, along with the current crop of musicians such as Shaan Rahman, Bijibal and Yuvan Shankar Raja, as he recollects his journey so far.
 
 
 
 There were international concert tours, big movie releases, indie music releases, some amazing songs, chartbusters in multiple language films, filmfare nominations and multiple music award wins. All these were learning experiences. It has been a good year professionally, and most importantly I was able to make my parents and sister happy, so, it has been good on a personal level as well.
 In 2017, music enthusiasts will get to listen to around 40 songs from my end, and I am quite positive about it as well.
 
 
 
 The entire crew and I were astonished by the kind of response that the song received, as we did not expect such an immense feedback. We are more than happy about it. Its full credit goes to Phani Kalyan, who composed it and Gomtesh Upadhye, who directed the song. They had to face many obstacles during the making of the song, and the lack of a producer prompted them to crowd source it, so the audience's love meant a lot.
 At a time when there is a splurge of cover songs, Neeye can be credited to be an original work, and I think it deserves every bit of attention that it managed to fetch. 
 
 
 
 During the initial years, I did not have a clear view on how to go about things. Vidyasagar sir's composition Ayyo in Spanish Masala was a good start for me. Following that, in 2013 and 2014, I had many songs coming my way. When I look back at my singing career, it has not been an easy ride. Quite often, the things I wished for never materialised. I can say that it has been a mixed bag, for sure.
 
 
 
 Frankly speaking, I am still trying to explore which genre I am most comfortable with. But, if you ask me to handpick one or two, I would say classical and sufi songs. There is an amazing unrestrained feel about them. You just go with it.
 My father has been someone with deep musical inclinations, and both of us have been listening to a lot of songs of Rafi sir for a while now. In fact, the musical genius's works have become an integral part of our lives now.
 
 
 
 Whether I am in the musical world or pursuing other ventures, I just want to be happy, and spread joy to my family, which is essentially my world.
 I don't have any long-term plans as of now, but I want to learn new things. I am pretty confident that I am better today than what I was yesterday, and I would want to keep that process going. I see every day as a new beginning. When it comes to singing, I aim to be a singer with sustainability and be good at my craft.
 
