CHANDIGARH: How easy is it for a terrorist or a criminal to get a   light, meant for the highest authorities, and drive a car into high security zones of Chandigarh? It's as easy as ordering a pizza at a   joint.

 All he has to do is walk into a car accessory shop in the city and buy it for as low as Rs 2,500, no questions asked. The shopowner will not even issue a bill.
 
 To get the point across, a TOI team recently walked into an accessories shop at the Motor Market in Sector 28 and asked for a red beacon. The man behind the counter reached for a box on display and handed it to the reporter without blinking. When TOI asked for a bill he said the light would cost more and it was better to take it without paper work. Ironically , the `mission' of the company selling the lights is described on the pack as “To make life safer for those who save lives“.
 
 TOI then mounted the light atop a Honda City and drove around parts of Chandigarh which are frequented by high profile figures. This included driving past the Punjab Governor's house in Sector 6. There were cops posted at a number of traffic roundabouts when the TOI team of two reporters and two photographers drove by , but none of them raised an eyebrow of doubt. They let the car pass even when it jumped two traffic red lights.
 
 To be fair to the cops, they would be asking for trouble if they stopped a car with a red beacon given the high density of VIPs in the city . Chandigarh is the capital of two states -Punjab and Haryana -besides being a Union Territory and is also home to Punjab and Haryana high court. There are more min isters, bureaucrats and judges per square km here than most cities. But at the same time, vehicles fitted with red lights are required to carry a certificate or letter from the ADGPIGP as well as bear a sticker with the vehicle number and the signature of a senior police official to signify that it has the necessary approval. That the cops could not spot the absence of the sticker is worrying.
 
 Red beacons, being synony mous with VIP culture and misuse of power, have hit headlines after the new Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh decided that his cabinet and bureaucrats would not use them.
 
 A petty criminal using it was caught only on April 6. He was nabbed by Panchkula police driving around with a red beacon posing as an inspector general of police. Using the authority of a top cop, he had taken away smartphones worth Rs 1 lakh from a shop without paying for them.
 
 Criminals apart, a bigger threat is from terrorists who can use the light to enter protected areas. There is already a precedent. On January 1, 2016 four terrorists from Pakistan waylaid the official vehicle of the Gurdaspur SP and used it to get past police bar ricades in Pathankot to reach the air force station and wreak havoc. The car was fitted with a blue beacon.
 
 Given this scenario, authorities should consider if car accessory shops should be allowed to sell the red beacon as if it is a toy.(Inputs by Pawan Tiwari)
 
 TIMES VIEW
 
 It is strange that red beacon lights are sold like samosakachori in Chandigarh given that the   banned the use of such lights by all vehicles, except those used by dignitaries holding constitutional posts, back in December 2013. Only around 16   with constitutional posts were allowed to use it. If such a small number of people are legally using it, then its bulk sale makes no sense. Given the potential for misuse, their sale should be  
 
