COIMBATORE: How many times have you been to a public space in the city and badly missed a comfortable place to sit? Well, you are in luck, as the city corporation is planning to install ‘smart benches’ across the city, where you can sit under the shade of   on   and even browse the web on  

 The first such bench will be set up this week on the corporation office premises at the Town Hall, sources told TOI. “The initiative is a part of the smart city project. The smart bench, which will cover an area of 80 sqfeet, will have a solar grid, Wi-Fi facility and also provide shade to visitors. After a study, similar structures will be set up in 30 locations in the city at various parks and reserve sites,” a corporation official said.
 
 Based on the concept of ‘solar tree’, a bench will have six solar panels, each with a capacity of 300 watts. “It will generate a minimum of eight units per day, which will be stored in a battery. Power from the battery will be used to power the Wi-Fi routers, air monitoring censors and humidity monitoring censors. The bench will be fitted with LED lights and will also have a provision to charge cellphones and laptops. About 10 people can be seated at a time,” the officer added.
 
 Corporation officials will closely monitor the functioning of the bench at the office premises, corporation commissioner   told TOI. “Once we are satisfied with its operation, we will call for a tender and set up similar facilities in 30 other locations,” he revealed.
 
 As part of the smart city project, this will be the first such trial project the civic body will take up. “We have several projects lined up and are working on them. We had sent some of the proposals to the state government for approvals. Some have been sanctioned and some are awaiting approval. However, some proposals have been dropped, such as ‘smart bins’,” the commissioner said.
 
 Meanwhile, several city-based architects and contractors are creating designs to set up non-motorised transport along city lakes. The lake corridor, starting from Narsampathi Tank in Veerakeralam, will extend up to Periyakulam in Ukkadam. The lake side will be revamped and the corridor will cover a distance of 35km. It is expected to benefit more than two lakh people.
 
