Survivor was touched inappropriately during accused’s visits for a year; relatives asked her to keep mum

 In another harrowing tale of familial sexual abuse, a 12- year-old girl has come out about suffering through a year of sexual abuse by her grandfather. The minor had been living with her  , who have also been charged for  .
 
 The minor had lost her parents a few years ago and has been staying with her aunt and uncle ever since. Her grandfather, who lives in Ahmednagar, would often visit her. An FIR has been registered by the Child Helpline at Yerwada police station against the grandfather, aunt and uncle of the girl, who lives in Wadgaonsheri.
 
 Although the girl does not remember when the abuse started. However, from the account she gave to her tuition teacher, her grandfather had been sexually abusing her for approximately a year now. Her teacher realised that there was something wrong with the minor and that she had a problem in gauging the concept of ‘good touch’ and ‘bad touch’. Over a period of time, the teacher managed to gain the girl’s trust and was able to learn the whole truth.
 
 Whenever the girl’s grandfather would come over from their native place, he would often wake the girl up at night and then touch her inappropriately. For the longest time, the minor was unable to realise the gravity of the situation till she started getting uncomfortable.
 
 Adding to the girl’s woes, the aunt and uncle kept threatening the minor to not divulge anything to anyone. They also hit the minor and made her do household chores to ensure that she was under their thumb.
 
 Manisha Tule, police sub-inspector of Yerwada police station, who is investigating the case, said, “We have arrested the trio as soon as we were able to nab them. The court has remanded them in police custody for one day. We shall try to find out more about their involvement in the crime. Since this is a non-bailable offence, they will all be sent to jail.”
 
 The trio has been charged under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and The Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. The girl is currently at a remand home in Nana Peth as a temporary accommodation.
 
 ¦ We have arrested the trio as soon as we were able to nab them. The court has remanded them in police custody for one day
 
 — Manisha Tule, Sub-inspector, Yerwada PS
 
