NEW DELHI: With the   over and the unrest in   settling down for now, the Delhi government’s first task will be to ensure a smooth transition to the   from July. 

 The value-added tax (VAT) department is giving final touches to the draft Delhi GST Bill before placing it in front of the cabinet. The Bill will then have to be tabled in the assembly. A special session is likely to be called later this month, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia told TOI. 
 
 Of the 4.05 lakh traders registered with the value-added tax (VAT) department, 2.69 lakhs have enrolled on the GST portal. The enrolment, the deadline for which was April 30, will open again in June. While many traders could not sign up as their PAN card details did not match with the one registered with the department, VAT registration of 19,000 traders have been cancelled. Many others, who are in the wait-and-watch mode, are likely to be part of the last-minute rush. 
 
 The special assembly session will have to be called in May itself as the VAT department will need one month after the Bill is passed and notified to enforce the transition, said government officials. 
 
 The department has already started a training programme on GST modules for a 450-member team of officials. From mid-May, camps will be organised for traders in collaboration with market associations to spread awareness about the new tax regime. Even before starting the registration process, the government held a workshop at Delhi Secretariat to familiarise traders with the procedure. 
 
 Starting December 16 last year, all traders registered with the Delhi VAT department were asked to start enrolling on the GST portal. The initial deadline was December 31, which has since been revised many times. 
 
 Once GST comes into effect, VAT will cease to exist except in the case of liquor and five petroleum products, including diesel and petrol. The luxury tax and entertainment tax will be merged under GST. The excise duty on liquor will continue, along with VAT, even after the rollout.
 
 The portal seeks to empower the traders with a complete online experience with no manual interface. From uploading of bills and filing of returns to tax payment, the entire process will be online.
 
 
