PANAJI: The situation of children rights in the state is deteriorating thanks to an influx of migrant population from various neighbouring states and the lack of proactive measures by the government.

 People working for the rights of the juvenile population have raised the alarm that Goa, being a prime tourist destination is failing to protect its young ones from a market of sexual predators and businesses which employ underage children illegally.
 
 “The kids serve as a cheap labour force, but their living conditions are poor as they are often not provided with basic sanitation and shelter,” Nishtha Desai from the Children’s Rights in Goa ( ) shared, adding that a more coordinated response from parents, teachers and the authorities is required.
 
 Desai further elaborated that children as young as six years old are currently working in various parts of the state and more than half of the working ones are employed by the tourism industry.
 
 “One challenge is to get different departments - the department for women & child development, education, panchayats, labour, police and finance to talk to each other so that the protection of children can be discussed in a holistic manner,” Desai pointed out, stating that the state needs a robust rehabilitation system for the rescued child.
 
 As per the police department, there is a sub-inspector and three other policemen in every police station who are trained to interact with juveniles. Organizations working to help the juveniles shared that the absence of a rehabilitation strategy leads to the rescued children being again released from the government home to their parents.
 
 “Once again, the children will be found on the beach/street. Civil society blames the police, the police blames the child welfare committees and the position of the children remains unchanged. As an NGO, we too, receive complaints from people about child beggars,” Desai said, adding that Goa has still not created a comprehensive plan of action to eradicate child labour in a phased manner, which should be in place as directed by the Section 7 (6) of the Goa Children's Act.
 
 Responding to the situation, minister of women and child development,  , said the department has created welfare committees which take action whenever any case comes up.
 
 
