
I was born and brought up in Bengaluru. It is my only home town and I have never relocated out of my sweet city. It's not that I have not got opportunities to study or work outside Bengaluru. I have always preferred to remain loyal to my hometown because no other city matched the ethos of Bengaluru.
 
 My relatives and close cousins who stay in Belagavi are always eager to hear news about the capital of Karnataka and I had pride in explaining what the city offered, double decker buses, best fruits, flowers and vegetables all 365 days of the year.The Janatha Bazaar, Alankar Plaza...Majestic,   and Lalbagh and to show off, the Galaxy theatre.This was what Bengaluru meant to me in my schooldays. As I grew up and started travelling, comparisons between cities were debated with my cousins, and Bengaluru was always a winner against my cousins who debated for Bombay/Mumbai.
 
 The joy of returning to Bengaluru from outstation would be ecstatic and I was always eager to breathe the fresh air of my hometown. There is something different in its air. It hits you and makes you comfortable. I have experienced this after every domestic and international return.
 
 In college days, outing to dhabas in Yelahanka and Whitefield was the in thing. Yelahanka and Whitefield areas were alien places to the city even in the 1990s, and were considered outstation and far off. We spoke of   as if it was in the other state of Tamil Nadu, far far away from Bengaluru and Karnataka.The feeling that we were losing Bengaluru as it was meant to be, started in the early 2000s.
 
 Real estate and software killed Bengaluru. It's not that I don't have a global vision. I am part of the technology world, but, I still stick to my stand; software killed the city and real estate greed buried it. You want to relive Bengaluru, then travel early morning, say around 6 am. That was what Bengaluru used to be 247.
 
 Reclaim 1990s. Restore Bengaluru's old charm. Use technology and recreate what Bengaluru was. To rebuild Bengaluru, let us be revolutionary. Let there be a legislation to stop real estate construction for one year. Stop adding to the concrete jungle. Revive, replan, resize, relocate and reenergise. 5 `R's I would say. Bengaluru needs these 5 `R's to get back its old glory.
 
 (
 )
 
