NAGPUR:   workers on Monday slammed the ruling BJP-led Nagpur   (NMC) over its failure to address acute water shortage in many areas this summer. The corporation had claimed to have successfully implemented the 24X7 water supply project.

 The party workers, led by city Congress President Vikas Thakre, staged a protest at the chambers of Mayor   at NMC headquarters, against Orange City Water (OCW) — the private operator implementing the 24X7 water project. The agitators also broke earthen pots in protest.
 
 "The situation is very serious and common citizens have become so desperate that Nagpur could face severe water riots in days to come," Thakre told Jichkar, demanding ouster of OCW.
 
 He added, "While the water tariff is being increased by 5% every year, there is an unabated deterioration in water supply across the city."
 
 Though mayor Nanda Jichkar assured to solve the water crisis, she criticised the behaviour of Congress activists. "I am not against the agitation but the way Congress activists behaved and shouted anti-slogans was very objectionable," a miffed mayor stated. 
 
 Thakre pointed out that even the Pench IV project has failed to improve the situation. There were many areas where pressure is very low and many residents are yet to get water in their taps. OCW officials do not entertain residents and corporators if they demand water through tankers. 
 
 "We face people's wrath in such cases," said Congress corporator Manoj Sangole.
 
 "The water crisis in city is a result of poor water management by OCW, aided by massive corruption in NMC's water works department. It is an obvious plan to protect and promote tanker mafia by the ruling party. This betrays the trust reposed by common people," alleged Congress corporator Bhawna Lonare. 
 
 She said that water was not supplied in Deepak Nagar, Kasi Nagar, Sawarna Nagar, Babadeep Singh Nagar and many other areas in North Nagpur.
 
 "Mere lip service of   leaders cannot quench the thirst of city. Tall promises and false claims by the ruling party are adding insult to injury,” Thakre told the Mayor. 
 
 He demanded that the issue should be resolved immediately or the Congress will take to the streets.
 
 Mayor Jichkar assured to convene a special meeting of Congress corporators, OCW and NMC's water works department officials.
 
