LUCKNOW: After the   and the Congress almost finalized their pre-poll alliance for the upcoming Assembly elections in the state late on Thursday night, the tie-up suddenly started stumbling by Friday morning, leaving the Congress camp crestfallen. A

 A sudden hike on number of seats from 103 on Thursday to 138 on Friday by the Congress is learnt to have annoyed SP national president   so much that he ordered the state party chief Naresh Uttam to release names of the 208 candidates in two lists — first of 189 candidates in the forenoon and the second having of 19 candidates in the afternoon — sending the second rung Congress leaders rushing to his doors to save the alliance. 
 
 Then , the SP camp hinted that it was ready to spare about 80-85 seats, including 54 where Congress had won or stood second in 2012. Till late in the night, negotiations were on to save the alliance. While SP maintained its tough posture, the Congress leaders were seen submissive to somehow save the proposed pact even if a major compromise had to be made. “Saturday is a crucial day. If Congress accepts our conditions, the alliance could be formalised,” says a senior SP leader. 
 
 Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi’s reluctance for a joint campaign with Akhilesh and denial of major seats in the Nehru-Gandhi pocket borough to the Congress were the other contentious issues threatening to deflate the alliance talks. Not only did the SP release the two lists, it also announced that the party’s manifesto for the 2017 Assembly elections would be released on January 22, making it clear that it was Congress which was in greater need of the alliance.
 
 The floundering alliance further demoralised the rank and file of the already marginalised   in the state as just three days are left before filing of nomination ends for the first phase in western UP. Congress has been out of power in the state for the last 27 years.
 
 If Congress wants nearly 138 seats, leaving the rest to the SP in 403 constituencies and also a major share in the 10 assembly constituencies in the Amethi-Rae Bareli Parliamentary constituencies which are represented by Rahul and Congress president Sonia Gandhi, Akhilesh does not appear in a mood to oblige. Having won the battle for the symbol in the election commission, Akhilesh feels more confident and appeared to have turned a hard bargainer. 
 
 The national general secretary of the Congress, Ghulam Nabi Azad mediated throughout the day between Rahul in Delhi and Akhilesh in Lucknow. However, till late evening there was no softening of stand by Akhilesh, who has already rejected an alliance with Ajit Singh’s RLD. On the other hand, UPCC chief   and Ajay Makan sounded meek and submissive, maintaining an all-is-well posture to somehow save the alliance. At the district and constituency levels in the state, the clouding of the alliance between the two parties left the Congress workers confused.
 
 The national vice-president of the Samajwadi Party, Kiranmoy Nanda hurriedly called a press conference in Lucknow on Friday morning to attack the Congress, disparaging it by saying that the Congress should realize its non-existential status in the state and should not cross its brief. “In fact we wanted to have an alliance with the Congress to prevent the communal forces, but the Congress does not seem to be interested in it,” Nanda lashed out at the press conference.
 
 Meanwhile, the SP lists, released from the party headquarters, caused consternation in the Congress camp as Akhilesh had fielded SP candidates in nine seats where the Congress had its sitting MLAs. The   leader, Pradip Mathur said that he unilaterally declared himself as the combined candidate of the alliance declaring “main hi hoon sanyukta pratyashi” (I am the combined candidate of the Congress and the SP), without realising that the alliance was on the rocks. Majority of the MLAs of the Congress want to have an alliance with the Samajwadi Party, primarily in their own interest of returning to the Assembly a second time. 
 
