MEERUT: The city's GP block has three abandoned and dilapidated buildings nestled deep inside an isolated lane populated by wild plants. It has been made famous as the "haunted houses of Meerut", and has found its place in several "top ten haunted places in India" lists. 

 However, according to the   (MCB), the place is still used by miscreants for "illegal and immoral activities", and it has been forced to install a big iron gate at the entrance of the lane which contains the houses.
 
  "It had become the perfect spot for miscreants. Since there were rumours that it is a haunted place, many people would be scared and would not visit here, and the place would be empty. Miscreants then used this spot for all kinds of illegal and immoral activities from which they also made money," said MA  , media officer, MCB.
 
  Zafar added that the place was turning into a hangout spot for gamblers and couples seeking privacy. They approached some miscreants who illegally let out these buildings for money. "People who knew that the haunted part was a rumour used the buildings as their bedrooms by paying a certain amount. These things are just not acceptable on defence properties," Zafar added.
 
  In 2014, the ground floor of one of the three buildings was given to a few caretakers by the  . 
 
 However, MCB claims that they were the ones to first let out these houses for money. "The caretakers themselves were engaging in such activities. They would take money from gamblers and couples and let the space out to them for a few hours. Sometimes, they used the place for amusement purposes," added Zafar. The buildings were originally used by the Army as a sub-area office, but were vacated in 1950s after which they were used as the residence by a junior officer. 
 
 However, the arrangement did not last long and GP block has been abandoned since late 1950s.
 
  The place has now turned into a headache for the cantt board which has installed a huge iron gate at the entrance of the lane which stays locked. "To protect the property, we have installed the gate," said Zafar. 
 
