KOLKATA: The Centre’s proposal for a unique identification number for cows has found eager acceptance with one group in West Bengal. The   (Cow Development Cell) of the state BJP, which conducted two cow censuses last year, has come up with recommendations on what information to include in the proposed unique identification tag.
 
  According to the group, the identification tag must mention the breed of the cow, the animal’s milk production capacity and quality of milk and its height, weight and age. Apart from saving cows, the cell’s main concern is the preservation and protection of Indian breeds amid increasing hybridisation of cattle.
  
  West Bengal had about 1.51 crore cows, of which about 25 lakh were cross-breeds or exotic breeds, while the remainder were Indian breeds, a review conducted by the group in September showed. The cattle population in the state declined by about 54 lakh from about 2 crore in the census in July, after cows were slaughtered and smuggled during Bakr Id in mid-September.`
  
  Welcoming the Centre’s proposal to introduce an Aadhaar-like identity tag for the cow, the Gau-Bansh Vikash Prakashtha has proposed some ideas. Without waiting for the Centre to notify the project, the organisation has started collecting data on height, weight, age and milk producing capacity of cows in the state, said  , president of the Gau-Bansh Vikash Prakashtha of the BJP (Bengal chapter). This will supplement the information in the census report on types of breeds and the numbers of male and female cattle.
  
  “We involved more than 5,000 youth working across the state to collect data. Moreover, we have formed a squad to collect information about cattle smugglers and pass it on to the agencies concerned,” said Gupta, who has at least two cases of cow vigilantism filed against him by the  . “Of 75 cattle smugglers featuring in the list of the intelligence department, 58 people have already been arrested. We have teams of volunteers near important border outposts and near Petrapole, the international check post.”
