NASHIK: A total 45,174 candidates appeared for the   2017 in   on Thursday, even as four students from the city reportedly missed the test because of some goof-up in their  

 Candidates are required to clear the common test for admission to first year degree courses in technical education (engineering and technology and pharmacy ).
 
 The Directorate of Technical Education (DTE) deployed 1,300 staffers to conduct the common entrance test that went off smoothly across 49 centres in the district and 121 centres across the division. 
 
 “The MHT-CET 2017 was held peacefully across the division and, as expected, more than 90% students appeared. The highest number of students were from Nashik district,” said D P Nathe, deputy director, DTE, Nashik division. 
 
 According to sources, the candidates ,Nitin Vispute and Samadhan Waje who were to appear for the test at K K Wagh Polytechnic centre and Raksha Shinde and Yogesh Porje from other two centres, missed the test. 
 
 Nathe said, “The candidates generally fill their forms online at local cyber cafes and their owners or staff must have provided wrong admit cards. We are looking into the matter and will come up with concrete information soon.” 
 
 “The test was comparatively easier this year. Physics is generally considered to be the toughest of the three subjects. This year’s paper was not as difficult as that and there were a lot of calculation-based questions,” said Pramod Patil, director of a leading entrance exam institute in Nashik. 
 
 “Chemistry is generally of moderate difficulty and this year was similar to last year’s. Most questions were conceptual and application-based. Students strong in both areas would not find it difficult,” he added. 
 
 Deepika Mudholkar, who teaches at MVP’s junior college, said the biology paper was moderately difficult this year. “Most questions were conceptual, so those with strong concept would find it solvable in time,” she said. 
 
 The DTE made some changes in the examination process. Usually in the MHT-CET, the first paper is of  , but this year maths was conducted first. 
 
