Eating breakfast at your desk has become common for those who start early from home and have no time to rustle up the first meal of the day. If you’re one of those who can’t eat before leaving for work, make sure you carry a healthy, nutritious breakfast to eat at the desk. It should contain a combination of complex carbs, vitamins, minerals, heart-healthy fats and a protein source.
Here are some options that can be made in advance and enjoyed, while you set your day in order.
  
  
 These are not instant but a no-cook oats preparation. In a glass jar, mix rolled oats with milk — regular or almond and add different kinds of fruits. You can also include nuts, seeds, dry fruits, chocolate chips or granola. Add sugar/honey/maple syrup for extra sweetness. Keep it overnight in the fridge, for it to settle. You can pick up the jar before going off to work. Overnight oats also turn out to be creamier and denser, with many finding it to be tastier than the regular cooked oats.
  
  
 
 If you want a low carb, high- protein breakfast which includes eggs too, then try these savory egg muffins. Add vegetables and some cheese as toppings and eat a couple of these ‘portable omelettes’, hot or cold. You can also make them in advance and store in the fridge for three days.
 Take 6 large eggs, 1/4 cup of milk, 1/2 cup of diced onions, 1/4 cup of tomatoes, salt and pepper as per taste, crumbled cheese and veggies of your choice. Whisk together all the ingredients and pour evenly in the muffin cups. Bake in the oven at 350 degree F for 25 minutes.
  
  
 
 Add mango, the season’s most loved fruit, along with banana, strawberry, water melon, musk melon etc, to make a bowl of summer fruit salad. You can add almonds for a protein boost and mint for a refreshing twist. 
  
  
 
 You can carry your smoothie and have it the traditional way, by sipping on it at your desk or opt for a smoothie breakfast bowl. Packed with fruits, milk and granola it can be made within minutes, and is easy to carry to work. Other interesting toppings can be nuts and chocolate chips. For those who want vegetables for breakfast, can opt for a blend of leafy greens and yogurt for a healthy smoothie.
  
  
 
 When the weather is warm, there is nothing comforting than some cold chia porridge/pudding. Easy to make, you can try making delicious combos with different flavours. For the basic chia porridge/pudding you just have to add chia seeds, regular or almond/coconut milk, sugar or honey as per taste, in a jar. Close the lid tight and give it a good shake to avoid lumps before keeping it in the fridge to set overnight. Other options can be cocoa powder or fresh blueberries or vanilla bean extract for a high-protein breakfast. 
 
