VADODARA: After over a decade of deliberations and delays, M S University’s Faculty of Commerce will introduce a   (M Com) programme. 

 The two years full time regular postgraduate degree programme will be offered to students from the next academic year. 
 
 A faculty board meeting on Friday unanimously approved the proposal to introduce M Com (general) which will have 84 credits. The proposal will be now placed before MSU’s syndicate body for its approval. 
 
 Presently, each of the five departments of the faculty offer M Com degrees and post graduate diploma in their respective subjects. 
 
 Till now, students had the option to select any one subject as specialisation at masters’ level. For instance, students had to either opt for M Com (accountancy) or M Com (banking) or M Com (economics) and so on. 
 
 “It is after 20 to 30 years that a proposal to introduce a new post graduate degree programme has been approved. There have been large number of representations from students, alumni as well as professionals and industries to start M Com which is multi-disciplinary in nature,” said  , elected chairman of board of studies and former dean of the faculty, who was instrumental behind introducing the course. 
 
 “Commerce faculty is largely known by its size. We have been very careful that number of students is kept only at 60 so that we can deliver quality in terms of internship, projects and field work,” said Bansal. 
 
 Initially, the programme will be launched with one division of 60 students. Considering the demand and popularity of the programme in future, dean of faculty has been authorized to increase the number of divisions and intake per division.
 
 Modelled like a MBA programme, M Com (general) will be a job-oriented masters programme in which there will be five subjects in each semester and the last semester will have project   from five subjects. 
 
 All admissions in the programme will be offered on merit – on the basis of the   obtained in all theory subjects in three years at undergraduate   Students who have cleared their B Com or BBA or equivalent degree with commerce-related subjects with at least 45 % marks will be eligible to apply for admission. 
 
