In today's world where Sex is not a Taboo, we Indians are terribly shy to discuss Sex, even if it is associated with our own  . I have been surprised in my clinical practice at the number of men with heart disease who suffered from Male Impotence also known as Erectile Dysfunction. Diabetics are at a higher risk of   than Non Diabetics. In the older days, the pattern of erectile dysfunction and heart disease were so widespread, most Doctors attributed it to simple "ageing", as common as wrinkles or flatulence.

 Today, we are aware of the aggregation of findings relating male impotence with heart disease. Since both are expressions of a common phenomenon, if you have one, you are likely to have the other.
 
 A wealth of scientific experience, with studies like Health Professionals Follow up Study has revealed the risk factors for erectile dysfunction are similar to those of heart disease. A recent Italian study of men with severe heart disease uncovered astonishing 93% men with erectile dysfunction 24 months before their heart attack.
 
 Diabetic women may also face sexual problems for example vaginal dryness, vaginal thrush, fall in sexual drive, a slower arousal, and pain during sex or trouble having orgasm. All these problems can be controlled or avoided by simply keeping the blood sugar under control. Diabetes also affects the women’s fertility but if we control it, the chances of getting pregnant are fairly good and equal to that of non-diabetic women. Therefore, to discuss your concerns make an appointment with your doctor or diabetes educator as soon as possible. You may or may not wish to take your partner with you. Seeing a counsellor with experience in sexual health may also help.
 
 Hypertension, Smoking, Diabetes,  , Obesity and physical inactivity- all strongly predict sexual dysfunction in men as they have heart disease too. Metabolic syndrome- a rampant condition India, includes low HDL, High Triglycerides, High Blood Sugar, large waist heightens the body's inflammatory state- increasing the likelihood of developing erectile dysfunction by 48%, and thrice as likely to have a heart attack or stroke.
 
 This article stresses the common denominators between heart disease and male impotence or erectile dysfunction. Lifestyle modification, health management, exercising regularly and reducing stress will go a long way in ones’ generalized wellbeing. There are some pathological causes too for male impotence, so make sure you consult your Doctor at the earliest to correctly diagnose and efficiently treat you to peak performance.
 
 Early recognition, Earlier acceptance and Timely discussion can alert you and maybe avoid a future heart attack.
 
 
 
 
