PUNE: With the election commission’s bug-riddled official website leaving a lot to be desired, several third-party alternatives are providing Pune’s voters with succour.

 These software programs are doing what the EC website is unable to — let voters check their names against the draft voters’ list. There are others too, with names like ‘Rajkaran’, ‘Rajyog’ and ‘Rajyakarta’, which offer advanced features.
 
 The EC has already released the free-to-use ‘True voter’ application, which lets voters check their names, track poll expenses and voice their expectations, among other features. Another app, called ‘Cop’ helps citizens report any violations of the election code of conduct. 
 
 When Jamie D’Souza — a regular voter for many years — searched for her name against the draft electoral roll on the website, she hit a dead end. In fact, she got a message asking her to fill ‘Form 6’ as a new voter. When she entered her name into an election software at her local corporator’s office, she got instant results.
 
 D’Souza’s is not an isolated case. There have been several complaints that the official website is a far cry from being user-friendly. 
 
 Radhikesh Uttarwar, a citizen activist who runs the group_ pledge to vote, said the list has been uploaded in Marathi, and if one were to search for one’s name in English, it would be futile. This causes confusion among citizens. 
 
 “As a citizens group, we also tried checking the election website and found many issues. The software, which can be downloaded on smartphones, made it easy to find names instantly,” said Uttarwar, who has plans to develop a software himself, while adding that there is an abundance of said software in the market.
 
 Milind Darekar, Pune district head of ‘Rajyakarta’, said their software has been helping voters find their names for the last decade-and-half. “We keep adding new features as needed, whether the search needs to as per panel, family, alphabetical order or even house number,” Darekar said. 
 
 Election officials do admit to facing some teething problems. 
 
 “We know there are some issues and are trying our best to make it user-friendly. We are talking to the technical team to help us address this issue,” said  , secretary, state  , who added they are trying to upgrade their search function.
 
 A party worker said: “(The problems) are the reason people are buying such software priced above Rs 30,000.” The worker is already using one software, but is planning to switch to another offering better features. These features include helping the party map the area as per societies and people, find the data of male and female voters with colour-coding to indicate whether they are likely voters or otherwise.
 
