VISAKHAPATNAM: The   is pinning its hopes on   from the   (  by April this year to go ahead with the development of  . 

 According to highly-placed sources in the AP government, the proposal for securing the environmental clearance will be submitted to the MoEF and is likely to be taken up by the ministry in a meeting slated for March.
 
 "The public hearing for the project was completed last month and it went off very well. We are submitting the proposal to MoEF for clearance and we are positive that it will be taken up in a meeting in March. The nod for the project is expected by March," an AP government official said.
 
 He said, "Once the environmental clearance comes, we can ask potential developers to submit their bids for the project. Bidding can't be done earlier because there may be some restrictions imposed by the ministry on the amount of commercial area, which can have an impact on bidding. So, if we get the clearance before the bidding process, then there will not be any problem for the developers to submit their proposals."
 
 At the same time, another official said, "Once the environmental clearance is provided, we are hopeful of wrapping up the bidding process within 45 to 60 days." Sources said the government is keen on finalising the project by June this year.
 
 At the same time, a Vizianagaram district official said out of the total 2,600 acres required for the project, around 2,200 acres have been acquired and the remaining 400 acres are also in the final stages. The land acquisition process is expected to be completed by April this year.
 
 Planned to be developed on a design, build, finance, operate and transfer basis and the first phase of the international airport at Bhogapuram is expected to cost around Rs 2,718 crore and will have a terminal capacity to handle around 6.3 million passengers per annum. The second phase of the project is expected to be developed at a cost of Rs 1,798 crore with a terminal capacity of around 18 million passengers per annum, as per the project details submitted to the MoEF. 
 
 
