NAGPUR: The   ( ), a wholly owned state government company engaged in extraction of timber from reserve forest, has shifted its Sangli region to Pune without approvals from the board of directors (BoD) and the government.

 The order to shift Sangli region was issued by FDCM managing director on March 15 and no reasons have been cited in it.
 
 “Sangli region has been shifted to Pune for administrative purposes. The area is scattered and more area under FDCM is near Pune and hence the decision was taken,” said FDCM general manager (headquarters) K Ravichandran.
 
 However, currently FDCM has no forest area in Pune. An area of 1,057.07 is proposed to be transferred. Similarly, 13,155.047 hectares is also proposed to be transferred to FDCM in Kolhapur. But the required GR for approval has not been obtained till date. 
 
 In June 2014, a GR was issued to hand over forest area of 38,977.939 hectare to FDCM, which included 3,132.55 hectare area of Sangli and Kolhapur but not in Pune. From reliable sources, TOI learns that there is no such proposal to transfer forest land in Pune district to FDCM.
 
 Even management plan of Sangli region from 2016-17 to 2025-26 contains area of 2,213.537 hectare in Kolhapur district. The Sangli region includes Sangli, Kolhapur, Satara and Solapur in  . The total reserved forest area in FDCM’s possession where logging operations are under way is spread in 2,213.537 hectares over 29 compartments in Kolhapur.
 
 Interestingly, the order does not specify about shifting of staff from Sangli. Copy of this order has also not been given to government and FDCM chairman. Any administrative order related to opening and closure of divisions and regions needs approval from board of directors as well as from the government.
 
 For example, recently Nandurbar division of FDCM was closed after proper approvals. In the past too Thane region, Yawal division, seed units in Nashik and Nagpur were closed in a similar manner.
 
 FDCM sources said the order needs to be stayed and reasons for shifting should be inquired into. Senior officials said it is more for officials’ convenience than for administrative reasons.
 
 Opposing the move, they felt it will be difficult to protect forest areas of Sangli, Kolhapur and Satara from Pune and it may result in poaching and illicit felling in the Western Ghats. Some of these areas are near the Chandoli wildlife sanctuary.
 
 The FDCM is already under cloud for purchasing LED touch screens worth Rs33 lakh without e-tendering process.
 
 
