GHAZIABAD: Alarming the residents of  , Ghaziabad with their audacity, burglars attacked two houses of a residential location and decamped with valuables worth lakhs here on Thursday. 

 In the first attempt, House No E-16-D of Engineer Rajiv Malhotra was attacked by the miscreants in the wee hours of Thursday morning and a jewellery bag containing gold ornaments worth almost 10 lakhs was stolen from a room. 
 
 "This has happened between 6:30- 7:30 am this morning. I live in the house with my wife, two kids, my parents and a maid. During the time of the incident my mother, my father and our domestic help was present in the house," said Rajiv Malhotra, victim. 
 
 According to Malhotra, he had left his house around 6:30 am for morning walk and his wife, who also joins him for a walk was dropping their two children to the bus stop and left the house around 6:40.
 
 "My mother wakes up really early too and today morning when she came after bathing around 7 am she called out for my maid to ask her that if my wife had returned back home or not. My maid initially refused, but after she saw the door to my bedroom open, she said she (my wife) would have come back. But when my mother reached, my room she saw that door of the cupboard was open. She asked the maid about the same to which the maid said that I don't why has she left the door of the cupboard open. So my mother went ahead and closed the door," added Malhotra. 
 
 When his wife returned, she saw a pouch lying on the bed, and another pouch containing jewellery kept inside it was missing, which costed around Rs 10 lakh.
 
 As many as eight gold bangles, two gold bracelets, four gold chains an undefined pair of earrings were stolen.
 
 "We got a call from the owner around 7:30 in the morning. It is alarming to know, that being a posh colony something like this can be so easily possible," said Avaneesh Dixit, SHO, Sihani Gate Police Station. 
 
 When asked about the levels of security in his house, the victim said that his house has a main metal gate, with another metal door, followed by another door with a grill on it. "If they could enter through all these levels so easily, nothing is secure. And all of this happened while my mother and maid were in the next room and my father was sleeping," added Malhotra. 
 
 However, a CCTV camera has been installed four doors down the victim's house, which is located close to one out of the four exits available close to his house. "They have given me the pen-drive of the footage and I will watch it as soon as I charge my laptop. Maybe we can find something," said Rajiv Malhotra. 
 
 In another incident, that happened in E-6 building of Dayanand Nagar, the office building of Magna Traders, a company producing filter bags used in various industries was ransacked by burglars. 
 
 "We close the office by 7:30 in the evening even on Wednesday evening, a peon and an accountant, working in my office, closed it around 7:30 pm," said Manoj Sharma, owner and victim.
 
 "But when my peon reached the office around 9:30 am, he saw the lock on the main door of the office was broken and the files and other belongings were disorganised," added Sharma.
 
 Empty bottles of cheap liquor, three transparent glasses and packets of snacks kept in the office were also found from the location. "Three glasses indicate that they could have been three in number and they had a nice time drinking and eating here at night. They probably would have been inside the premises for over 2-3 hours," said Avaneesh Dixit, SHO, Sihani Gate Police Station, Ghaziabad.
 
 The miscreants fled away with Rs 25000 kept in safe after breaking the lock, they uprooted all the faucets installed in the bathroom and the kitchen, uprooted the washbasin and tried opening the cupboards by smashing the door with it. They even tried stealing the air conditioner, but failed to dislocate it due to the freshly completed woodwork. "While removing the faucets, they broke a lot of tiles in the bathroom and the kitchen. They stole my wife's Sony laptop from my cabin, a new 32 inch LED TV, took away a change of Rs 500 and even decamped with glass cylinders kept in the kitchen," said Manoj Sharma. 
 
 The burglars even took away tools like hammers kept for domestic usage from the location. "On an estimate, goods worth Rs 2,50,000 were stolen from my office," added Sharma. 
 
 "We think that both burglaries have been done by the same people and we are trying to find clues about them," said Dixit. 
 
 An   (house breaking) and theft (taking in possession the immovable property of the owner dishonestly) of the IPC have been registered in Sihani Gate Police Station. 
 
