Mumbai: Even as the speed of   is picking up at  , many teachers continue to grapple with  . 

 Missing graphs in answer sheets, wrong papers being allotted to teachers, multiple pages with same numbers, and even blank pages are affecting the assessment process, which is not even close to meeting the July 31-deadline laid down by the governor.
 
 Teachers assessing the operational research paper of BMS students were unable to assess the papers for a few days as a graph asked in one of the questions was missing in all answer sheets. “None of the graphs attempted by the students were scanned for the online assessment process. Now, the university’s board has decided to give away 7.5 marks to students on the basis of the explanation of the graph attempted in the answer booklet,” said a subject teacher. He added that teachers were unable to assess the paper before the decision was taken leading to a minor delay.
 
 In another instance, the project management paper of BSc-IT students were marked to BMS teachers for assessment. After the matter was brought to the university’s notice, it was rectified. A few days ago, teachers also noticed multiple pages with same numbers. “It looked like pages of more than one student were mixed up while scanning. This was reported to the university, and the problem stopped. But all this, if not detected at the moderation stage, may have a serious impact on results,” said a teacher.
 
 Teachers claimed the response time for glitches has improved to a great extent now. “The help desk is quick in resolving our queries. We will have to wait and see how the results turn out now,” said a teacher. Vinayak Dalvie, officer on-special duty for assessment work, said glitches were reported by teachers, but they are fewer in numbers now. He added that teachers were also facing a problem in noting down the marks at the top of the page, as any new entry jumped to the first position. “We have rectified it and it will save at least two minutes in assessing each paper,” said Dalvie. 
 
 
