MUMBAI: Cricket, especially the shortest version of it, can make a mockery of reputations. An example of this was on show at the   in the opening game of the   when   scored an upset six-wicket win over West Zonea team full of domestic cricket stars on Wednesday. Playing like novices after being put in to bat, West slumped to 61 for five by the 11th over, before   (40, 33b, 5x4, 1x6) and   (49, 26b, 2x4, 4x6) helped them post 160 for eight. It was never going to be enough on the placid Wankhede track, and  's match-winning 62run knock, which took him 42 balls and included two fours and four sixes, eventually took Central home.

 Singh added 79 in 45 balls with Mahesh Rawat (30 not out off 22 balls, 4x4) for the fourth wicket to help his team overcome a mid-innings crisis during the chase, which saw them lose Ambati Rayudu's wicket with the score reading 79 for three in the 11th over.
 
 Apart from seamer Ishwar Chaudhary and the wily 45-year-old leggie Pravin Tambe, the rest of the   bowlers looked pedestrian. Seamer Shardul Thakur doesn't seem to be cut out for this format,   seems to be losing his pace by the day and Abhishek Nayar seems to have lost his steam after a long Ranji season.
 
 In contrast, Central thrived on the efforts of seamer Amit Mishra (2-28 in four overs) and spinners Karn Sharma and Sohraab Dhaliwal, who conceded merely 45 runs in eight overs.
 
 Even though T20 demands urgency, West skipper Parthiv Patel (16), Priyank Panchal (12) and Shreyas Iyer (7) would blame themselves for wrong shot selection. Fresh from his ODI exploits against England, Kedar Jadhav was out in a freakish manner, as he edged a ball which ballooned off his pad while trying to play it on the onside to short third man.
 
 Pathan was unlucky as he found himself short of the crease having backed up too far, even as the ball grazed Sohraab Dhaliwal's palm on its way to the stumps at the nonstriker's end.
 
 Hooda was lucky to survive twice. He was dropped on three, and then he was the beneficiary of an umpiring error as he looked to be plumb in front to Ankit Rajpoot whose delivery looked like it was crashing into his middle stump. The Baroda man made the most of the reprieves to punish the Central bowlers.
 
 
