PATNA: The Danapur division of East Central   (ECR) held a high-level meeting on Monday to take stock of security arrangements made by Railway Protection Force (RPF) at all major and small stations under it during the month of ‘Shrawani Mela’. 

 Railway Protection Special Force (RPSF) quick response teams have been deployed at all crowded stations to check any untoward incident either on running trains or during devotees’ visit to Jasidih station.
 
 Danapur DRM R K Jha said railways has deployed special security force in ‘kanwariya’ dress at all major stations in the division. Two special women RPF teams have been deployed at the crowded places to provide assistance to women devotees on way to Deoghar, he said, adding RPF assistant commandants are personally monitoring the rush of devotees at all major stations.
 
 Jha said though railways is running several special trains to facilitate devotees journey to Jasidih on way to Deoghar during Shrawani Mela, RPF men are escorting 54 Jasidih-bound passenger trains in the division. Railways has provided a direct link to RPF escort team to crime control room of the division at the Danapur DRM office. The control room is well equipped to deal with any emergency situation, he said.
 
 RPF men have also been deployed to check touts at the railway ticket booking counters. RPF escort teams have been strictly directed to check alarm chain pulling (ACP) incidents, especially on the trains carrying ‘kanwariyas’ from different places in the division. Senior RPF commandant of Danapur division, Chandra Mohan Mishra, has been asked to ensure a peaceful and hassle-free journey of ‘kanwariyas’ during this period, the DRM said, adding efforts were on to check pickpockets and theft of luggage.
 
 Jha also said railways is running a special train between Bhagalpur and Ranchi to cope with devotees’ rush. The special train leaves Ranchi every Tuesday and Saturday at 12.15pm and reaches Bhagalpur at 3.45am. On its return journey, it leaves Bhagalpur every Wednesday and Sunday at 4.55pm and reaches Ranchi at 7.25am next say, he said, adding the biweekly special train (08603/08604) will run till August 9 next month on the nominated days.
 
 Meanwhile, an RPF team raided an agency house located near Gandhi Maidan here on Monday and arrested two persons in connection with illegal sale and booking of railway tickets. The RPF team seized Rs1,47,500, 28 tickets, two laptops and 16 credit cards from the agency office, sources said, adding railways felicitated five TTEs of Danapur division for their outstanding contribution in collection of revenue from free-trippers. 
 
 
