GANDHINAGAR: Gujarat   has announced that it will take out a three-day   over Naliya rape case. The yatra will begin from Naliya in Kutch on February 18 and culminate three days later in Gandhinagar. 

 The party has also said that it will gherao the assembly on February 20 against the scandal and the rise in the incidents of crime against women in Gujarat.
 
 The Congress leaders and MLAs will meet governor O P Kohli on Friday and demand action against the BJP leaders allegedly involved in the  . 
 
 The opposition party has also threatened to disrupt the upcoming assembly session, if the state BJP government does not take any action. 
 
 Gujarat Congress president   said, “The BJP often talks of Beti Bachao (save the girl child). But the time has come to save girls from the BJP leaders.” 
 
 “Naliya, Jetpur, Parul University, Gariadhar—everywhere the BJPs leaders are involved in rapes and sex rackets. What happened in Naliya is not an isolated incident, but part of a series of such crimes by the BJP leaders,” Solanki said. 
 
 The Congress leader said that the BJP was trying to hide facts to save its leaders. “We suspect that the Naliya sex scandal has strong links with Gandhinagar and Delhi. This needs to be probed by a senior judge independently as the state police are acting at the behest of the state’s BJP government,” he alleged. 
 
 Congress leader and leader of opposition in the state assembly, Shankersinh Vaghela, said the party leaders would be meeting the governor on Friday. “We will demand a strict action against the culprits of Naliya rape case. If there is no action, we will not allow the governor to give his speech on the first day of the budget session,” Vaghela said.
 
 Vaghela said that when Nirbhaya rape and murder incident occurred in Delhi, the BJP, Anna Hazare and Baba Ramdev hit the streets to protest. “Where are they all now? They are not speaking a word on Naliya sex racket!” he said.
 
 
 
 
 Reacting to Congress’ threat to gherao assembly Pradipsinh Jadeja, minister of state, legislative and parliamentary affairs, said, “Congress has shown its disrespect for the assembly and governor by threatening to gherao the assembly and not allowing Governor to give speech in the assembly. The government has taken lawful action in Naliya, Bhavnagar and all other cases and is open to discussing all these issues in the house. The Congress is planning yatra and threatening to disrupt house for petty publicity.” 
 
 
 
 
 On Thursday, when journalists asked Vaghela about his earlier claim that he had sex CDs of 12 BJP leaders, the Congress leader said he would hand over the CDs to Nitin Patel in person and request him not to make it public. “I don’t believe in character assassination. I defended Narendra Modi on the questions about his martial status because it was a personal matter. If any leader commits misconduct in public, I will fight back,” Vaghela said. 
 
 
 
 
 Aam Adami Party (AAP) has also announced that it will hold protests over the Naliya scandal in all major cities on February 20. The party said that it would also gherao chief minister Vijay Rupani’s homes in Rajkot and Gandhinagar that day.
 
