Hyderabad: The regular inflow of untreated sewage has reduced the Amber Cheruvu and Pragathinagar Cheruvu, two prominent   located in the   area, into stinking, hyacinth-filled cesspools, indicates data available with the Telangana State Pollution Control Board (TSPCB).

 In addition to thick layers of hyacinth on the surface, these water bodies are also rich in toxic chemical components and bacterial content, namely faecal coliform, which is bacteria found in human and animal faeces. Figures indicate that the most probable number of total bacterium content, per 100 mL, in the Pragathinagar Cheruvu showed an increase of 406, between 2015 and 2016. The TSPCB has even cited the inflow of ‘untreated sewage from nearby residential areas’ as the reason for the rising pollution levels in the Pragathinagar Cheruvu.
 
 “It is untreated sewage and encroachment that are mainly responsible for the pollution and diminishing size of most lakes in Hyderabad. Almost 20 years ago, there was not a single encroachment on the Amber Cheruvu or the Pragathinagar Cheruvu. Today these lakes have been reduced to less than half of their original sizes. The lake protection committee, much like the other committees constituted by the state government, has done precious little to save these lakes,” said environmentalist Capt J Rama Rao.
 
 When TOI contacted Shekhar Reddy, superintending engineer, lakes and water bodies, Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) and in-charge of the Pragathinagar Cheruvu and Amber Cheruvu, he confirmed that the GHMC has not carried out any remedial processes at these lakes.
 
 “We have only marked the Full Tank Levels of these lakes so far. The hyacinth removal work, which was proposed to be carried out is still pending. It is the maintenance wing of the GHMC that is responsible for removing the hyacinth and cleaning the lake,” said Reddy.
 
 According to environmental activists, the Amber cheruvu has even shifted its position, owing to massive encroachments on its lakebed. “Amber Cheruvu was once an expansive lake, which has been reduced to a cesspool due to the regular inflow of untreated sewage, from residential colonies nearby, and growing number of encroachments. Due to large number of encroachments, the lake itself has shifted southward. Even the road adjoining the lake is an encroachment as it cuts directly through the lakebed of Amber Cheruvu,” said Lubna Sarwath of Save Our Urban Lakes.
 
 
