NAVI MUMBAI:   (PCMC) has said it wants to source most of its drinking water supply from  .

 “Talks have been held with the   and I am hopeful that the   will hand over the dam to us,’’ municipal commissioner Sudhakar Shinde told TOI on Wednesday.
 
 Hetawane has a capacity to supply 200 MLD water and can meet the demand of 300 MLD for a population of 25 lakh (estimated for 2021) 
 
  at 135 litre per capita daily. This is the benchmark supply, including losses, as per the Union ministry of urban development and has been adopted by civic bodies after last year’s unprecedented drinking water crisis in the state.
 
 Hetawane dam on Bhogeshwari river in Pen taluka made news last summer when its water stock was at a high of 53.30% compared to the dams in drought-hit Marathwada that were at its lowest-ever level of 3%. 
 
 Hetawane, at present, mostly supplies to Cidco for Kharghar and Kalamboli nodes. Cidco has also increased its intake from 100 MLD to 150 MLD. The talks of transferring the dam to PCMC will now factor in the arrangement of the town planning department with the irrigation department because the new corporation has been carved out of Cidco areas and the pipeline network will now be managed by the civic body.
 
 Hetawane supplies a small quantity of water for irrigation for about four months to the nearby areas of the dam and its surplus stock will come handy for the Panvel corporation. The other sources will be Dehrang dam and the connection by MJP for JNPT and MIDC.
 
  Shinde said there were 4.5 lakh voters for the civic polls likely in April while the total would be around 10 lakh, including the floating population. The demand would increase and there is a high potential for development because of the upcoming airport and Metro project.
 
 The old civic body had been sourcing its drinking water supplies from Dehrang dam, MJP and MIDC. The dam supplies around 15 MLD out of the 27 MLD requirement. Dehrang’s capacity will be augmented to 50 MLD by excavating the rocky surface and also by increasing the height of the dam.
 
