VADODARA: Parents in the city will not get any immediate relief though Gujarat Assembly has passed the Gujarat Self-Financed Schools (Regulations of Fees) Bill, 2017 which has capped the school fees collected by private schools across the state. 

 It covers all private self-financed schools affiliated to all education boards in the state and has fixed the upper limits for fees for primary schools at Rs15,000, secondary schools at Rs25,000 and higher secondary schools at Rs27,000 applicable from academic year 2017-18. 
 
 But, most of the city-based schools, have issued circulars to parents informing them that they will have to deposit the fees as intimated by the schools, earlier. 
 
 Interestingly, most circulars issued by the schools are almost identical except the change in the name of the schools and signing authorities which in majority of the cases are school principals. 
 
 The parents have been assured that if the fee decided by the   under the Act, is different than what is being currently charged, the schools will adjust the difference in the next fee instalment.
 
 “Practically, this means that parents like us will have to wait for another six months before the next fee instalment becomes due,” said a parent, who has his two kids enrolled with a   ( ) affiliated school in western part of the city. 
 
 “Upon the Act being notified and made available, we will be in a position to examine the provisions and the measures required to be taken by the school in furtherance thereof. Fee determined by the school and to be paid by the parents would be subject to the applicable law and applicable provisions contained therein,” is the common statement issued by the school managements to parents. 
 
 Some prominent CBSE affiliated schools in the city have even deferred their academic session “till further notice”. 
 
 But Vadodara district education officer M L Ratnu said he hasn’t received any complaint from parents that academic sessions are being deferred. 
 
 Meanwhile, Manjalpur MLA  , who had earlier, taken up the issue of hefty fees being charged by schools with state education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama, in an indirect threat to school managements has advised them not to oppose the state government’s move. “It is not prudent for the schools to oppose the state government’s move. The schools have been charging hefty fees on some or the other pretext. Parents too need to form a strong association and come together,” he said. 
 
 
