BHUBANESWAR: Around 1.22 lakh   obtained by those not eligible under the   ( ) has been cancelled by the state government. 

 Announcing this in the assembly on Saturday, food supplies minister Sanjay Das Burma said altogether 1.6 crore applications had been received for ration cards after the NFSA was implemented in all 30 districts of the state in two phases, in November and December 2015. Of this 86,14,222 cards covering 3,23,23,108 people have been issued so far, Das Burma said in a written reply to a question from  .
 
 The minister's reply showed that out of the 1,22,292 cardholders declared ineligible, maximum 12,592 cards were cancelled in Balangir district followed by 9,585 in Ganjam. Bargarh, Cuttack, Khurda and Sundergarh districts accounted for 8,000 cards each with Cuttack registering the minimum such cases - 1400.
 
 Each card entitles a beneficiary to 5kg of rice or wheat per month at Re 1 per kg. The cost of subsidised foodgrain is almost entirely borne by the central government. For one kg of rice the central assistance is to the tune of Rs 27.94, with the state providing Rs 2 and the remaining Re 1 borne by the beneficiary. In case of wheat, the Centre provides Rs 20 per kg, the minister said.
 
 Following the introduction of NFSA, the issue of ration cards had emerged as a major controversy amid allegations that the ruling dispensation had allowed ineligible candidates into the subsidy fold, bypassing the nine exclusion criteria, for political gains. 
 
 Mounting public pressure sparked by demonstrations and dharnas forced the government to have a re-look into the beneficiary list. As many as 6,786 criminal cases were filed against ineligible cardholders for violating the Odisha Public Distribution (Control) Order 2016 and 353 persons, mostly women, were arrested. 
 
 Sensing that police crackdown could invite severe political backlash, the government later decided not to initiate criminal action against the ineligible beneficiaries and announced its decision to withdraw the cases already registered. 
 
  BJD insiders, meanwhile, said criminal cases against ineligible candidates and arrests of mostly women affected the party's chances at several places in the  .
 
