NEW DELHI: As a man, he was a respected executive director of a software company in Bengaluru. As a woman, she was reduced to begging in DTC buses for survival. This transformation from Tarwinder to Kiran Sakhi and from a successful corporate executive to a social outcast encapsulates the tale of discrimination that transgenders encounter in life.

 Tarwinder’s decision to declare that he was a woman trapped in a man’s body pitted him/her against a society that refuses to concede equal space to transgenders and sexual minorities. His brave announcement left the staff at the software company uncooperative, leaving him no option but to resign. After the transition to Kiran Sakhi, jobless and homeless, she moved to the capital, but her identity, not her qualifications, deterred anyone from employing her.
 
 Like Sakhi, most transgenders realise quickly enough the odds they face in life. The story of   exemplifies this difficult proposition. Feted when appointed principal of a women’s college in West Bengal, India’s first   in the post, she recently resigned after a year and a half — the “non-cooperation” of the students and teachers made her task impossible. Such social prejudices mean even mundane tasks like getting an autorickshaw or shopping for groceries are marred by unkind remarks.
 
 And yet the feeling of liberty that assuming their true identity brings tempers any remorse. As 41-year-old Sakhi told TOI, “I don’t regret my decision. I am finally what I am and not living as somebody else. I feel free.” 
 
 Sakhi currently works for Trust for Trans Welfare, Equity and Empowerment, started by transwoman Abheena Aher. For Aher, the empowered status she enjoys now is hard earned, having come after years of abuse, physical and mental torture and social rejection that saw her attempting suicide three times. It was only when Abhijeet made way for Abheena that she got rid of her demons. “As a child I was reprimanded, punished and hurt by my neighbours, teachers, everyone, just because I felt like a woman when they wanted me to be a man,” shared Aher.
 
 A graduate in economics from a prestigious Mumbai college, and a diploma holder in software engineering, Aher lost one job after another and left home in frustration. For some time, she had to entertain sex clients to survive. She finally found dignity at India HIV/AIDS Alliance and today travels the world to spread awareness. But there are daily challenges. “My passport says I am a transgender, but that does not allow me to become Abheena Aher. I am forced to remain Abhijeet,” she said. “During airport security checks, I don’t want men to frisk me. But the women personnel too refuse to pat me down.”
 
 Aher came to Delhi from her native Mumbai in 2010, and got a room with much difficulty — for double the normal rent because she was a transgender. When she next moved into a house in Kalkaji, the landlord insisted that no man or woman, let alone another transgender person, would be allowed to visit her. To free herself of these constraints, she rented a house offered by an understanding doctor couple — but it is in the Govindpuri slums. “The upscale neighbourhoods don’t want to give me any space,” grimaced Aher.
 
 After decades of living in denial, Aher’s mother finally embraced the fact of her son’s identity. A retired government servant and a trained Kathak dancer, the mother now dances with others in the Dancing Queens to canvass filial support for transgender family members. 
 
 
