THANE: Haphazard   of vehicles on roads in the   may invite action by the   (TMC).

 Civic commissioner   has ordered his subordinates to make sure that the streets are clear of illegally parked vehicles. 
 
 Jaiswal, during his drive against encroachments on roads, also targeted illegally parked vehicles at the station area, Subhash Road, Jambhli naka and Gaondevi area to name a few as they were disrupting the smooth movement of vehicles. As many as 450 vehicles, including bikes, cars and autos were either seized or tyres deflated by the civic team during the week-long drive that is likely to be sustained till the issue is sorted, claimed officials. 
 
 “We have been receiving complaints from residents about traffic snarls in the station area. Directions have been given to the traffic police and regional transport office to take action against those vehicles parked illegally near the station premises and Naupada,” said a senior official.
 
 The move has, however, raised questions among motorists and residents about the absence of parking lots or plazas in the old city areas. 
 
 There are barely four off-road parking lots in the city that are majorly insufficient to cater to the huge volume of vehicles. The available vehicle population as per the regional transport department figures is around 17 lakh.
 
 The old part of the city witnesses a heavy inflow of cars during business hours while the volume of authorized parking lots on roads is barely 100 forcing motorists to park in society campuses or alleys. A rough estimate by the traffic police put the volume of vehicles using the station area to around 2,500 throughout the day in addition to those owned and parked by residents of old buildings that don’t have stilt space in their premise.
 
 “Where are the spaces for parking vehicles in the city and why is the TMC not working towards creating spaces instead of coming up with such decisions,” said activist Sanjeev Datta. 
 
 A civic official said they were working towards implementing the on-road parking policy that could prove to be a solution. 
 
