PANAJI:   Centre for Sustainable Coastal Management (NCSCM), a Chennai-based agency which carried out a study of the carrying capacity of Goa’s beaches as well as sand dune mapping, has suggested that the state government, through the forest department or  , should endeavour to grow and maintain local species along with dune parks with proper fencing. The NCSCM has made several recommendations for protection of beach ecosystems. It has suggested artificial nourishment of beaches to counter   using locally-available materials, instead of hard structures such as sea-walls/stone embankments.

 “A simple method of inducing accretion of sand to impede wind velocity is to be achieved by erecting a one-metre-high wire mesh, wooden or geotextile fences perpendicular to the direction of prevailing winds,” the report stated.
 
 It is recommended that the specific conditions applicable to the allotment of shacks at Morjim beach, be made applicable to Mandrem beach by virtue of it being designated a turtle-nesting site in the CRZ Notification, 2011. The forest department had recommended specific conditions for allotment of shacks at Morjim, which prohibits setting up of deck beds and beach beds in inter-tidal zones, installation of outdoor illumination, playing of loud music beyond 6pm, holding beach parties and movement of automobiles on the beach. Indoor illumination should be muted and provided with opaque shields on the seaward side, the report stated.
 
 It has suggested that the water resources department (groundwater cell) and the   prepare a plan for monitoring the groundwater quality in coastal areas.
 
 Also, the state government should encourage and lay emphasis on power generation through installation of solar panels in hotels, resorts, huts and other temporary structures by adopting the net metering policy. Hotels and resorts should be asked to install biogas plants/composting facilities based on availability of space and infrastructure. All starred hotels must install biogas plants/composting facilities. 
 
 All huts and cottages, exceeding 24 in number, should install sewage treatment plants, it recommended. 
 
 
