Nagpur: To get back ownership of a sprawling 1 acre plot at Somalwada, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has filed an appeal against BJP legislators Mitesh and his son Kirtikumar Bangadiya with the superintendent of land record (SLR) and city survey officer no. 3. The SLR had replaced the civic body’s name with Bangadiyas’ on the city survey records, and the NMC has filed an objection to this decision. NMC, through municipal commissioner Ashwin Mudgal, filed the appeal with deputy director of land records on September 14. The SLR had passed the order in favour of the Bangadiyas on July 3. The BJP-ruled NMC was sitting pretty despite losing land worth over Rs30 crore at a prime location on Wardha Road at Rajiv Nagar, Somalwada. Congress corporator Praful Gudadhe had raised the issue in the NMC general body, following which the appeal has been filed. In the appeal, NMC has revealed a new mistake committed by city survey office no. 3. “The land belonged to the district council prior to 1950. Upon extension of municipal boundaries, the land came in NMC’s possession. Accordingly, an entry was taken in the revenue record. Later, without giving any notice or hearing, the name of Bhonsale family through Court of Wards (under the district administration) was recorded on July 29, 2007. Then, members of Bhonsale family sold the land to Narendra Gundecha (resident of Wani in Yavatmal district) even before the entry was made in the revenue record. Gundecha then sold the land to Bangadiyas on November 6, 2009. This was illegal, void ab-initio, and in breach of principles of natural justice,” NMC has said. Yavatmal-based Sushilkumar Mutha, power of attorney holder of Bhonsale family, had sold the land to Gundecha on June 9, 2006. NMC added there was no order passed by judicial or quasi judicial authority to delete NMC’s name from the record. “In the absence of such order, it was impermissible to delete NMC’s name and substitute it by somebody else’s name, particularly when a civil suit was pending before civil judge senior division filed by the Bangadiyas,” NMC said. NMC also said, “Order of the SLR depicts total non-application of mind to the matter in hand warranting interference in appellate jurisdiction.” NMC is running a pre-primary and primary school on part of the land since the 1930s. The remaining portion of the land comprises of NMC’s walking track, children play area, and Green Gym for public purposes. TIME LINE * NMC got 1 acre land in gift from Bhonsale family for educational purpose in 1930s * Land was part of 12.96 acre under possession of Court of Wards coming under district administration * Court of Wards auctions 11.96 acre in February 28, 1975, and leaves 1 acre citing it in gifted to the NMC * Yavatmal-based Sushilkumar Mutha, power of attorney holder of Bhonsale family, sells land to Wani-based Narendra Gundecha on June 9, 2006 * Sale deed done using ‘bogus’ NOC dated September 6, 2005, of Court of Wards * City Survey Office replaces NMC’s name with Bhonsale family members’ names through Court of Wards * Gundecha sells land to BJP legislators Mitesh Bangadiya and his son Kirtikumar on November 6, 2009 * City Survey Office registers Bangadiyas’ name on February 2, 2010 * City Survey Office replaces Bangadiyas’ name with NMC on April 9, 2013 * Bangadiyas files appeal with SLR on October 26, 2016 * SLR passes an order in Bangadiyas’ favour on July 3, 2017, which leads to replacement of NMC’s name with Bangadiyas in City Survey Records