BURDWAN: Eight people were killed and one was critically injured when the car they were travelling in collided with a potato-laden truck on the Panagarh-Moregram state highway at Kanksa in Burdwan district early on Sunday. It was still dark around 4am, when the accident took place as the victims were returning home at Samudragarh in Burdwan after offering 'chadar' at the Patharchapuri dargah in Birbhum's Suri. 

 The   comes four days after a tar truck overturned on a car on  , the hot polymer melted the vehicle and charred a family of seven to death inside. The very next day, another accident, again in Burdwan district, injured 22 people, three of them critically. 
 
 The police said the accident on Sunday morning killed five on the spot. Among the injured, four were taken first to the Durgapur subdivisional hospital, where two were declared dead. While the other two were subsequently being shifted to Burdwan Medical College and Hospital, one of them died on the way. The one still being treated is in a critical condition.
 
 The police have seized the truck but the accused driver fled the spot.
 
 Yeos Nabi Sk, brother of deceased Jakir Sk (43) and Abdul Alim (40), said, "My brothers, Abdul and Jakir, along with other villagers, went to Patharchapuri dargah to offer prayers. It was Alim's vehicle they left in and he was at the wheel. The group left home on Thursday morning. Around 11am on Saturday, Alim called up his his wife, Anwara Bibi, to tell her they would be back on Sunday, by 10am." But around 4.30am on Sunday, the family received a call from the Kanksa police station, informing them about the deaths and that they should immediately reach the police station or the hospital. "We first visited the Kanksa police station and then the hospital. I identified my brothers' and other villagers' bodies."
 
 Besides Abdul and Jakir, the other deceased have been identifed as Alimuddin Sk (39), Marfat Sk (30), Sukorali Sk ( 21), Sahid Sk (28), Saidul Sk (42) and Kabul Sk (27), all of them belonging to the weaver's community. 
 
 On receiving the news, IGP (traffic) Manoj Verma visited the spot, when he was told by residents of the area that 15 people were killed in accidents on the same stretch over the past year. "I'm finding out the reasons behind such frequent crashes there. We will take some short- as well as long-term measures to check such incidents. The state will introduce the integrated traffic management (ITM) to catch traffic rule violators, who will be issued e-challans automatically. Nearly 100 watchtowers will be installed along highways in Bengal," Verma said.
 
 
 
 
