Panaji: For a state that produces   champions by the dozen, it’s strange that there has never been one with the highest title. Well, the wait has ended.

  ended Goa’s long wait for a grandmaster ( ) when he defeated Romania’s Milu Romeo-Sorin in the fifth round of the 37th Benasque International Open Chess tournament in Spain, to cross the necessary 2500 Elo ratings. 
 
 Anurag is now the 48th GM from India and the first from Goa, who has several young stars in the women’s section. Grandmaster is the highest title a chess player can attain and doesn’t come easy. A GM needs three norms, besides crossing 2500 Elo ratings.
 
 The 22-year-old, who had won five GM norms, was knocking on the doors to attain the prestigious title as he was hovering around 2477 Elo points. Anurag will now be officially conferred with the GM title when Fide, the governing body for chess, meets, either later this month or October.
 
 “Anurag is extremely focused and has his eyes set on reaching 2600 Elo ratings. Even after becoming a grandmaster, he has not spoken to us. He just informed us on WhatsApp and asked to be left alone; he still has four more rounds to play in the current tournament,” said his father Arvind Mhamal.
 
 The ongoing European tour has been fruitful for the Goan. Anurag finished third in the Forni di Sopra tournament in Italy last month. He wasn’t happy with the third spot and did well to win the 27th Open de Gros International in his next outing. The win helped him earn crucial 21 Elo points, leaving him short of just two points for his dream title.
 
 “Anurag is avoiding contact with everyone, including me and his parents as he prepares for the next four rounds. He is a very quiet person and doesn’t reveal much. More than that, he doesn’t want to get disturbed. He keeps things to himself and before leaving for the European tour, he appeared determined to do well,” said his coach Akash Thakur.
 
 Anurag’s early coaches were Siva Swamy and Prasanna Swamy. He later trained under IM Raja Ravi Shekhar in Bengaluru for advanced level coaching. 
 
 Anurag first took part in national tournaments at age seven and since then has not looked back. He got a boost when he was named the Dempo goodwill brand ambassador, and proof that he was on the right track came when he picked up the Fide Masters and International Masters titles in 2012 and 2013 respectively.
 
 “Anurag’s parents have made lot of sacrifices. They have never gone abroad but never stopped Anurag and me from travelling to Europe. We have made five visits and participated in over 10 tournaments. Any other parent would have gone along with their kid, once they get the sponsorship. Their sacrifice has brought in a big result today,” said Thakur.
 
 Anurag is expected in Goa next week.
 
 
