 Taking steps towards inclusion, Union ministry for sanitation decreed an advisory to all state governments to provide the third-gender with an option to choose a separate facility of public convenience.  , much ahead of its peers perhaps, had laid the foundation of   last September, with the decision to construct third gender public restrooms in the heart of the walled city, where a majority of the community resides. With television commercials and short films focusing on the topic, 
  interacted with a few of the over 1,300 members of the transgender community in the city, to find out whether we are inching closer towards the dream of inclusion or are segregating them further.

 Acting upon the verdict of the Supreme Court in 2014, that dictated the states to build a separate washroom for the third gender in public areas,   had laid the foundation stone of the facility in September, for the construction of nation’s first third gender washroom. Commissioner BMC Chhavi Bharadwaj states, “We had initiated the move to facilitate the community residing in the walled city area of Mangalwara, which lacked a decent public convenience facility for them. There are about 250 families residing in the area. The members admitted to waiting in queues outside women’s bathrooms for hours. The decision of the location being   for the prototype was natural, as most of the members reside there and in adjoining areas. Moreover incoming members also tend to gravitate towards the same place due to acceptance and evasion of stigma. We plan to replicate the project across the city once the prototype is fully functional.”
 
 While the step was lauded by most of the members of the community, some felt that it only segregates them further.  , a transgender social activist and member of the community, says, “I think the move is good, and the thought behind it is appreciable. But our community is still a misunderstood gender. True acceptance would be if we were free to use any loo we want to use. Creating a separate washroom further separates us from both the existing genders, instead of letting us merge seamlessly with society.” Her friend Leena adds, “In Mangalwara we have our own as well as friends’ homes where we can use the facility. Problems arise when we visit areas in new city, where they have sulabh complexes only with ‘his’ and ‘her’ washrooms.” They both agree that the people are more accepting of them when they use female restrooms. Sanjana says, “We can't use male toilets because we are scared of volley of abuses. Even in female toilets we have answer questions like 'kahaan jaana hai aapko?'. We resort to sarcasm and ask them if people come to shop in a toilet.”
 
 
 
 Mainstream cinema too has asserted the fact that Roti, Kapda, Makaan (Food, Clothes and Shelter) are the basic necessity of any human being, then would the transgenders be any different? Members of the community have been entrenched in a battle to gain right to homes under housing schemes in the city. In a monumental move, Mayor Alok Sharma announced the inclusion of transgenders in the housing for all scheme.The community welcomed the move, albeit hesitatingly. Sanjana comments, “Members from among us have tried staying in different location too. I stay in Ashoka Garden with my spouse. Whenever our friends from the community come over, people in the apartment get slightly intimidated. The look at us like we are sheltering terrorists.”Employment was another key point raised in the choupal held by the mayor. Leena says, “We have the will to work in different sectors, but due to the stereotype attached to us, we are assumed to be limited to just singing and dancing. To an extent our community is at fault too. In the fear of ostracism and exclusion, most of us do not receive formal education. In fact, some of us are hesitant to wander out of our safe haven.”
 
 
 
 
 In spite of the fear and social taboo members of the community have wandered out to seek different roles. Sanjana who started out as an activist for Swachha Bharat Mission to spread awareness about ills of open defecation is now working as a counsellor at Hamidia Hospital. Aaamna has opened her beauty salon and goes from one house to other during wedding season for bridal grooming and mehendi. Similarly, Madhuri has found her calling in fashion, and operates a small boutique in walled city where she designs vividly hued traditional attire for women. Just recently Mayor Sharma has also identified two members from the community to be tasked with recovering unpaid taxes. In a statement Sharma said, “They can be pivotal in anti-encroachment and tax recovery operations. It is a start to evolve a community that has been neglected for long”. Hamida concurs with the statement as she says, “Trans-genders or Kinnars as they are known here are respected out of fear. In some religions we command respect for being bestowed with qualities of both the genders. There have been previous examples where defaulters have paid the debt amount out of fear of being cursed, even though we don’t really. However, whatever floats our boat to bring in money we are good with it.”
  
 
 
 
 Times are changing, and rightly so. Even though the community remains mired in various stereotypes and stigma, they have come to find joy in the simplest change they come across. Millenials seem to have given them a new-found hope with their acceptance and crusades for their rights and subtle messages with TV commercials and short films are also being viewed as winds of change. The community has also become more active in asserting rights. Sanjana comments, “ With crusaders like Laxmi ji bringing about awareness, its time people start accepting into mainstream. We are equal to any gender. In fact, we are bestowed with powers from both the genders, so there are not many tasks that we cannot do. There are small changes too, because the place where I work has accepted me as an equal. There were lot of curiosity initially, but with patience and right answers it can be eradicated. Here’s hoping for a better and equal future.”
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
