NAGPUR: With BJP in power at the centre, state and once again in the city, people have high expectations from the civic leaders. Post the   (NMC) elections, they hope that their expectations are translated into actions.

 From a clean and beautified city, proper waste management to better parking facilities, sewage system, street lights and reduction in property tax, citizens have a myriad wishlist. “BJP has got an overwhelming mandate in the city. This is the chance for them to push the mega-projects that have been started,” said travel agent Harpreet Singh Alag, a resident of Gurunanak Pura.
 
 The win shouldn’t be taken for granted, say some. “Laid-back attitude is certainly not expected. projects like concretization of roads and metro should be completed on time,” said  , a resident of Deo Nagar. 
 
 Better accountability from government employees should be ensured, said Ketaki Salankar, a resident of Manish Nagar. “ The government should ensure solutions to our problems are provided in a proper and friendly way. Public money should be used judicially, she added. 
 
 Not just large-scale projects, people are also hoping for the new government’s sincerity in combating hyperlocal problems. Resident of Trimurti Nagar Pallavi Dadhe would like to see timely intervention by corporators in local issues rather than them paying a deaf ear to residents’ complaints. 
 
 Condition of NMC schools and hospitals has been degrading day-by-day. “Corporators should regularly inspect such facilities in their respective wards. Also, 24*7 water supply project should spread in all the areas,” said a resident of Tatya Tope Nagar. 
 
 Post elections, some have expressed disappointment over the defeat of prominent candidates. “The previous corporators of my ward who worked evidently were surprisingly denied ticket this time. Some of the corporators this time are new and I don’t know what to expect from them,” said a Ramdaspeth resident.
 
 On the other hand, some have welcomed the fresh faces with great expectations. “I am happy to see young candidates winning the elections. Hopefully, we will get to see swiftness in their work,” said Abhishek Singh, a resident of Dharampeth.
 
 ‘Less corruption’ is another high expectation. “I hope the newly elected corporators work efficiently and transparently,” said Riza Quadri, a resident of Jafar Nagar. Ramdaspeth resident Pushkar Poshattiwar wants development of slums of his area. 
 
 Those living in old Nagpur feel neglected a lot and demand more attention. “Unauthorized constructions, illegal parking and encroachments are spread all over in areas like Itwari, Shukravari, Santra market, Shahid Chowk but civic officials paid no heed. It is time that our corporators raise these issues,” said Amar Nagpal, a resident of Itwari. 
 
 Mominpura resident Shahrukh Salman said, “Being an old market area, Mominpura is crying out for parking facility. The hawkers also cause inconvenience and traffic congestion.”
 
 Wondering if “Nagpur can still be called a clean city”,   resident Sapna Kale said that waste management in the city should be the main agenda. “Rising garbage on streets is giving out a bad impression about the city. Awareness drives should be conducted to educate public about proper disposal of garbage,” she added. 
 
