PATNA: Unidentified criminals on Sunday gunned down Barh JD(U) general secretary   at village Wajidpur under   area in Patna district. He belonged to village Bhavanchak under Saksohra police station area. Kumar was also the Primary Agricultural Credit Society (PACS) president of Saksohra West panchayat. 

 Villagers said Kumar was returning from Barh Bazaar Samiti when he spotted some youths on four bikes on Wajidpur Road. “Apprehending trouble, he turned his bike but the assailants fired on him from behind and he fell down,” said a villager, adding that the criminals pumped several bullets into his body. He died on the spot.
 
 Barh police station SHO Manoj Kumar Sinha said six empty cartridges were recovered from the spot. “The body has been handed over to the family members after postmortem,” he said, adding that they were awaiting for the aggrieved family to perform the last rites after which an FIR would be lodged.
 
 The sources said Kumar was shot six times, including twice in his forehead. Four of the bullets pierced through his chest while two pellets remained stuck in Kumar’s head.
 
 Police sources said Kumar won the PACS election in 2013. He also contested for mukhiya post in the panchayat election last year, but lost.
 
 Kumar’s wife Shweta Devi has lodged an FIR against Anirudh Yadav and five other persons. She said the murder was a fallout of the panchayat and PACS elections.
 
 “Villagers said Kumar was either killed to take revenge of a murder of Vivekanand Yadav in the village some times back or by his opponents against whom Kumar had contested for mukhiya post despite warning against fighting the election,” said the source, adding that Kumar’s two brothers are engineers in Bengaluru, but he preferred to stay back, along with his two sons, wife and parents, to look after the village property. Viveka was the husband of Saksohra West panchayat mukhiya Baby Rani, who defeated Kumar in the last panchayat election. Anirudh is the elder brother of Viveka.
 
