HYDERABAD: The Hyderabad   asked. And the netizens responded with a flourish! A question posed by the cops on its   page with the hashtag ‘Questionhour’ read, “During your journey, which way did you feel congested and why? Do share your query and let us help to solve the problem. Admin H!”. It did not take long for people to get back to the police with the long-pending grievances on their minds.

 There were also some digs at the police, such as one from  , who wanted to know why the HTP admin never replies to complaints posted on the page. Raheem commented, “HTP I like your question but when you can't provide any proper resolution why you post Such things?? Admin never reply to complaints which we post... So you are just increasing your page response to show higher officials stating we are working for public...” (sic). The post appears to have led to some hilarity, with Anirban Bhattacharya responding, “This is just to show that in Rainy season ‘HTP is here’ not in Road (sic)” and   shoving in a laugh out loud sticker.
 
 However, on a more serious note, several of those who follow the HTP page had suggestions to make. Some even put up photographs of problem junctions and another took the pains to paste a map with a specific stretch of a problem road.
 
 Among the issues that were highlighted were the increasing number of U-turns that have been allowed across the city. Sai Praveen Manchiraju called this decision a ‘stupid rule’ creating congestion, which, coupled with “lack of common sense” among motorists, is adding to the woes of those who follow traffic rules. In all, six people expressed reservations about U-Turns saying they were leading to congestion and accidents.
 
 Other issues raised included wrong parking by autos and other vehicles, people driving on the wrong side and the traffic police personnel not doing their duty at some locations. Going through the comments, it becomes evident that there is no part of the city where people can use a stretch of road in peace without feeling the stress of unruly road users and chaotic traffic.
 
