Long ago, when Piccadilly Chowk was not  , a college in Sector 10 used to be called `Dukhi Ashiqan Da Vehda'. The loving nickname, meaning literally a verandah full of lovesick Romeos, was an expansion of the title abbreviation, DAV .

 Much before DAV College opened its doors to women, first in postgraduate courses in the year 2004-05 and, later, for all courses in 2006-07, its dress code (in hostels especially) was boxer shorts, unwashed T-shirts, and even vests at times. If a group of girls on the Gerhi Route passed by the college inadvertently, it aroused the wolf in boys. “Wooooo...ooooo,“ to them meant “wooing“. “The news of even a single girl's being around the campus spread like wildfire,“ says Abhay Jamwal, who entered Class XI there in 2003. These unpolished, catcalling, pigs-out-of-the-pen manners earned DAV the name of `Dangaro Andar Vado', literally `Beasts, get in“. The boys had been gaining notoriety. All this started to change in 2004.
 
 
 
 Subhash Marriya, college principal till 2009, was the man behind its going coeducational after almost 50 years. “At that time, 85% of the top positions in he university belonged o girls, which meant that co-educational rivals such as SD-32 and Shri Guru Gobind Singh College, Sector 26, were doing really well. The introduction of girls would have meant healthier academic competition in the college,“ Marriya says.
 
 It took quite an effort from him to persuade the college authorities to make DAV co-educational. “I gathered data to prove that, among students, girls outnumbered boys in Chandigarh,“ Marriya says. “There were fears that if we let in girls, discipline will go out.“ Arshbir Johal of the last all-boys batch remembers how the guys used to make rounds of the neighbouring girls' colleges, and wait outside to catch a glimpse of their crush. “DAV would be empty by 11am.There was no life whatsoever.“
 
 Principal Marriya went to then DAV managing committee president G P Chopra with his fact sheet. “SD-32 (Goswami Ganesh Dutta Sanatan Dharam College) was our rival in com merce and we had started to lag in the race. I told Mr Chopra we must make DAV co-educational if we wished it a good future,“ Marriya recalls.
 
 The trust president understood what he was trying to say . “He rang up the principal of MCM DAV College to ensure she had no objection, as it was an all-girls DAV institute. She said it'd be good rather, as her college could accommodate only 3,500 students, while it received nearly 10,000 applications every year,“ Marriya says. The advent of co-education in 2006 transformed the college atmosphere. Students stayed back beyond 2pm. There were more activities,“ says Jamwal.“Boxers and stinking T-shirts made way for clean denims, ironed collars.“
 
 
 
 The college has a tradition of remembering its students who laid down their lives in service of the nation. Four pillars at the entrance of its Shauraya Bhawan or administrative block are dedicated to martyrs captain Vikram Batra, second lieutenant  , lieutenant Vijyant Thaper, major  , captain Atul Sharma, major Navneet Vats, brigadier B S Shergill, captain Rohit Kaushal, captain Ripudaman Singh Rajawat, lieutenant Anil Yadav, flight lt  , and major Manwindra Singh
 
 
 
 After switch over to co-ed, principal   sat a happy man in his office at Shauraya Bhawan, DAV College.
 
 “Everybody now attended classes.
 
 Now I had a new problem. The classrooms were too small to fit in everyone,“ he says. For the first two years after DAV became coeducational, it almost made a clean sweep at Panjab University's regional youth festivals and also won prestigious competitions at the IITs in Mumbai, Roorkee, Kharagpur, and Delhi. “Ayushmann Khurrana (film actor) is a product of our theatre group,“ Marriya says
 
 
 
 When teenage boys meet teenage girls, sparks fly, and they did.Marriya is reminded of a time when on the round of the commerce block, I caught a group of boys outside the first-year classroom. “It came out that one of those regular students in the class was in third year in fact. When I confronted him, he told me his girlfriend was in the class. I had to warn him of disciplinary action.“
 
 Soon after, the boys-exclusive BTC Hostel was refurbished to adjust girls. More changes followed. In year Marriya left and BC Josan took over as principal, the college's paint was changed from brick red to turquoise green. The transition to co-education was complete
 
 THE GIRL STORY
 
 1958 | DAV College founded in 1958, when Chandigarh was in its infancy 2004-2005 | After almost 50 years, principal Subhash Marriya's efforts allow the college to become co-educational in postgraduate courses (MA and MSc) first 2006-07 | Seeing the positive response to co-education in postgraduate courses, the college opens doors to girls in all streams 2009 | With new life being infused into academics and extra-curricular activities, the college is ranked first in com merce in northern India in an AC Nielsen Org-Marg survey
 
