HYDERABAD: Chief minister   may have decided to   if he finds potholes on state highways from June 1, but closer home in the state capital, it's a roller-coaster ride for commuters on crater-ridden roads.

 GHMC claims they fixed 80,000 potholes since June last year, but officials privately admit there are about 15,000 potholes that need immediate attention. “We receive around 250-300 complaints every day and most complaints are received during monsoon,“ said Suresh Kumar, chief engineer (maintenance, housing, administration dept) of GHMC.
 
 While the civic body spends Rs 400 crore on road re-carpeting, it spends a measly Rs 50 crore on potholes annually, according to a rough estimate.As a result, vast road stretches remain death-traps.
 
 GHMC's promises ring hollow as a former commissioner Somesh Kumar had claimed if any citizen spotted a pothole, they would be paid `1,000, but there was no provision in the civic budget and nobody got a penny. On Tuesday, TOI found how commuters at Srinagar Colony Park, Punjagutta, had a tough time with vehicles crawling near potholes.
 
 The condition is same at GVK One Mall, Banjara Hills, Bapuji Nagar-Bowenpally, Diamond Point Road in Secunderabad and road near Keyes High School for Girls, Secunderabad. “It is difficult to slam brakes immediately as the vehicle behind me might lose control and hit me,“ said Dheerendra Vishwamitra, a BPO employee, while driving down Bapuji Nagar, Bowenpally.
 
 Shoddy repair is a major reason for pathetic condition of roads. The stretch from Yousufguda checkpost to Krishnanagar is dilapidated and several commuters are forced to take another route.
 
 “I stopped using the road after I began suffering from back pain and felt uneasiness on my right shoulder,“ said a techie, who drives through the Krishna Nagar area. Random checks by TOI showed that several roads have been dug-up at   road in Malakapet and the stretch near SBI, Moosarambagh. Dug-up roads are also trig gering dust pollution, and residents at East Prashant Nagar, Malakpet, say it is making life miserable. “Children and senior citizens are prone to respiratory infections due to dust, and we keep windows of our houses shut,“ said a resident of the area. In Secunderabad Cantonment area, nearly 40 potholes have been identified on16.29 km stretch. These were found at Karkhana, Trimulgherry junction, Lothukunta and Bolarum.
 
 
 
 The government should not make hollow promises. Instead it should ensure all potholes are filled before the monsoon. A few spells of rain this week were enough to leave roads battered. This is an ominous sign of what's in store during monsoon. CM's June 1deadline to contractors to repair roads should have a blueprint and reality could hit home when his cavalcade will hit a crater in Hyderabad
 
 
 When it comes to infrastructure, state government's discrimination is stark. A glaring example of how authorities drew the line between VIPs and aam admi is at Minister's Colony in Kundanbagh, Begumpet. With the locality housing who's who of Hyderabad, including ministers, judges and bureaucrats, the roads are regularly re-carpeted.
 
 The latest refurbishing was completed late Monday. But the VIP tarmac ends where houses of ordinary citizens begins. Gleaming roads lined with reflectors start at the turn beside Lifestyle building at   and end exactly at gates of Speaker Madhusudhana Char y's house. Areas behind government's 'laxman rekha' has not seen road re-carpeting in several years. Whenever work was undertaken, be it construction of footpaths, fixing of streetlights, line of discrimination remained. 
 
