New Delhi:   Aadmi Party MLA  's allegations will once again put the spotlight on Delhi health minister and party colleague   who is facing investigation by the income-tax department as well as the Enforcement Directorate. 

  While the ED is probing Jain for alleged money laundering, the I-T department has served him notices for allegedly concealing income and for some of the companies, where he was earlier a director, indulging in wrong-doing. 
 
 The IT department is investigating whether some entry operators based in Kolkata, who specialise in routing cash through a series of companies and then paying by cheque, helped some of the companies that Jain was associated with. 
 
 Separately, authorities have attached over 100 bighas of land in Delhi and shares in several companies linked to Jain under the law against benami property. The investment value of the land is estimated at around Rs 17 crore while the shares are worth Rs 16 crore. The market value is seen to be much higher.
 
 Notices for provisional attachment were served on February 27 with four companies receiving them. In the notices issued to Indo Metalimpex, Akinchan Developers, Prayas Infosolutions and Mangalyatan Projects, the initiating officer under the Prohibition of Benami Properties Transactions Act has accused Jain of getting irregular book entries to acquire shares in the company in return for cash payments.
 
 Around 69 bighas of farm land belonging to Indo Metalimpex alone was attached. Jain is one of the most powerful ministers in the Delhi government and in-charge of several key portfolios such as PWD, transport and health.
 
 Arguing for attachment of property, the authorities had alleged that the assets were acquired from money involving benami transactions and said the move was necessary as they feared that the assets could be alienated by transfer of shares.
 
  On the income tax front, initially, some of the companies linked to Jain were being probed and the Delhi minister was summoned by the authorities, which he said was in his capacity as a witness. Subsequently, he was also issued notices in his personal capacity.
 
