JAIPUR: Walking on a track parallel to his own ruling party,   was served with a notice by the   for   

 A known Vasundhara Raje-basher, the senior   MLA has claimed to be fighting 'corruption' and 'misgovernance' of his own government for the past two years. His fight, mainly against CM  , is rooted through his own organisation 'Deendayal Vahini'. Under this banner, he has been touring the state, gathering support against the government and has never missed out on an opportunity to criticise the Raje government.
 
 The party on its part sidelined him and despite being a senior member, Tiwari was also denied a berth in Raje's cabinet. However, the state unit also chose to remain mum over his actions or initiate any disciplinary action against him.
 
 The notice issued by the disciplinary committee questions Tiwari's decision to launch a parallel party, make statements against the state unit, boycott party meetings and conspire with opposition against the party. A reply has been sought within 10 days from him or else, disciplinary action will be initiated.
 
 Tiwari, on Sunday, claimed he had not received any notice as yet. "I have not received any notice yet, but when I do, I will give an 'apt'reply to it," said Tiwari. The senior MLA insisted that he had never acted or spoken against the party and that his fight has been against corruption and misgovernance by the state government.
 
 "When have I launched a party? The formation of the 'Deendayal Vahini' that has been questioned by the state party president Ashok Parnami was done 28 years ago - much before Parnami started his political career," said Tiwari.
 
 A steady flow of supporters was witnessed at his house on Sunday, whom Tiwari addressed. "Out to fight against corruption is like JP movement. The day Sanganer unit of Deendayal Vahini has 6,000 members; we will launch a major fight against corruption from here. It will be our own 'Navnirman andolan'," he said in his address. His supporters also held a 'bike-rally' in his support in Sanganer on Sunday. 
 
 
