KOLKATA: On the day of Sashthi last year, Calcutta   received an envelope from former inmate  . It contained a letter that conveyed Sharadiya wishes to the doctors, staff and inmates of the hospital. The bearer cheque for Rs 3,000 was for two inmates with whom Partha had become close during his stay. He wanted the hospital authorities to spend the money to buy something the duo wanted on the occasion of Durga Puja.

 The first-of-its-kind request from a former patient offered an insight into the mind of Partha who was at times demonised for living with his dead sister's corpse and the carcass of two pet dogs for months. Beyond a schizophrenic, the gesture showed he was more human than many. Yet, there was a vulnerability that lurked in the darkest recesses that manifested on the night of Monday and led him to the apparent suicide.
 
 Doctors who treated him fear that he may have stopped his medication that ultimately pushed him over the edge. Around 10-15% schizophrenics get into depression and turn suicidal.
 
 During the three-month stay at the hospital, the doctors were sure he had been successfully treated. “Partha had overcome his illness through medication and counselling. But he needed to continue the medication and return for check-ups.This was communicated at the time of discharge. I wonder if he had anyone by his side to monitor if he was taking his medicine regularly ,“ said Dr Pradeep Saha, the director of   at IPGMER who had headed the five-member medical board engaged to treat Partha.
 
 Calcutta Pavlov Hospital superintendent also expressed this apprehension.“He was a transformed man after he got proper treatment. That is why this news of death is so shocking. I fear he discontinued his treatment. Loneliness could also have played a part,“ said Dr Ganesh Prasad.
 
 Hospital sources said during his discharge, Partha had expressed desire to get married and settle down some day if he found a match who would understand him, a hint of how lonely he felt at the loss of his mother, sister and father.
 
 But doctors at the Institute of   (IMH) in Singapore, to whom Kol kata Police had referred Partha's case after the discovery of skeletons at  , had held a different view. They had found Partha to be unstable and unfit for discharge. In the 61-page report on Partha's mental condition in September, 2015, doctors from IMH noted that De had not been fully treated and needed to be kept in a hospital.
 
 Even cops from Shakespeare Sarani PS who had interacted with Partha on a regular basis for about a fortnight in mid-2015 were perturbed that he stayed alone at night without any kind of supervision.
 
 But as the Pavlov super pointed out, Partha's gift last Durga Puja, was not something that patients did. If anything, it showed he had been cured. One of the two friends that Partha had made at the hospital was a youth and the other a senior citizen. Both were cured but continued to languish there as their families had refused to take them back. On receiving Partha's gift, they were almost on the verge of tears.
 
 Partha did not want to be treated special in the hospital, An NGO had come forward to offer him food. But Partha declined saying he would eat the same food and wear the same clothes as other patients.
 
