NAGPUR: The fun and learning with Warli painting continued on day 2 of the workshop organized for the   (NFK) Club members on Thursday. 

 The workshop conducted by   and Drawing hobby classes at its Civil Lines premises was specifically designed for beginners with an aim to promote awareness about ancient cultures of India. 
 
 Vaishali Kawre, proprietor of Creative Craft, explained to the kids different aspects of warli culture and its art form. “Art is not what you see, but what you make other see,” said Kawre and added, “Culture and art are like two strings that connect us to the ancient world and helps us in acknowledging the style and way of life then.”
 
 Kawre first taught how to design a greeting card with Warli art. Children were given handmade sheets cutouts. Kawre asked kids to apply the basics they had learnt on day 1 of the workshop to design their cards.
 
 Children filled colours on the already drawn figures. Kawre asked them to take care of intricate details while painting. A team of eight assisted the kids.
 
 Kawre told kids that sometimes art is used as a therapy in cases of depression. “If chosen as a career, arts and crafts have grate scope nationally and internationally,” she said.
 
 Jasbeer Singh Sond, a parent, told TOI, “Such workshops impact creativity in children in a positive way and enhance their thinking process.”
 
 OUR TAKE
 
 The greeting card activity was amazing. I designed my card all by myself
 
 Arya Meshram | narayana vidyalayam, chinchbhuvan
 
 Workshop was very exciting. I learnt so much about warli culture and its art
 
 Anjali Randale | Bhavan’s, trimurti nagar
 
 This workshop has developed my interest in arts and craft. I will explore more forms of art
 
 Sumukh Kulkarni | Sandipani, Hazaripahad
 
 It was interesting to learn about different art forms from the team
 
 Ananya Meshram | Narayana Vidyalayam, Chinch Bhavan
 
 I will frame my artwork as it will remind me that we all can do good work
 
 Kishan Saini | swaminarayan school, wardhaman nagar
 
 (Reporting by Praveen Tewari)
 
