PATIALA: In a major blow to the   being put in by the new management of the   Trust to revive the four colleges being run by it, the state government has withdrawn all   given to the institutions to  , dental,  

  On Monday, principals of three colleges, along with the representatives of the new management, had appeared before the Punjab government's secretary, research and medical education, and given in writing that their staffers had received a month's salaries, and that they were ready to restart classes. 
 
  This decision to withdraw the essentiality certificates was conveyed early in the day to a single judge bench of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, which was hearing a petition filed by students of the college to re-start their classes. A representative of the Punjab Directorate of Research and Medical Education told the court that the state government has decided to withdraw the essentiality certificates given to all four colleges run by the trust. 
 
  Health minister Brahm Mohindra said that the Capt Amarinder Singh-led government was ready with a plan to shift the 1,550 students of the medical, dental, nursing and physiotherapy courses to other colleges in the state. In pursuit of this, the government has taken up their case with the Medical Council of India (MCI), the Dental Council of India (DCI) and Indian Nursing Council (INC). 
 
 During a discussion in court over the issue of the government taking over the institution, the state replied that it could not be done as the government has no expertise to run it, and also because there was no clarity about the financial liabilities of the college. The HC was also told that the government was not sure whether the trust property had been attached by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) among other properties owned by Nirmal Singh Bhangu, the main accused in the Rs 45000 crore ponzi scheme who was the head of the Gian Sagar trust.
 
  The court was also informed that the new management had failed to show any cash or credit that had been arranged to revive the institution. Meanwhile, the college management argued that the decision of the Punjab government to withdraw essentiality certificate would frustrate the new management. It submitted that the Punjab government is not interested in the revival of the institution by the trust. 
 
  On its part, the management submitted its revival plan to the court, telling it that meetings have been held with teaching and non-teaching staff to resume classes. "The contractor engaged in the supply of diesel and maintenance of generators has been paid 11 lakh," the affidavit reads. "The mess contractor has been paid Rs 5 lakh. All these payments have been made by May 6. An open offer has been extended to all staff of all colleges to join their duties, whereon one month's salary will be credited 15 days thereafter." 
 
