PUNE: The early morning chill did not deter the citizens from enjoying the festival of fun and fitness at Kothrud.  , which returned to   after a week’s gap, got a huge response from the citizens with over 15,000 of them participating in the event.

 On offer were exciting activities for participants of all age groups. The three-hour event kicked off by of different dances, football and skating on Shrikant Thackeray Path.
 
 A boxing awareness session by Hobpoint was the key attraction. An artificial boxing ring was set up where some trained kids took up a live match.
 
 “Our aim was to create awareness about boxing through this event. The youngsters and their parents should know about this sport too. This game can offer a host of physical and mental health benefits,” said trainer Deepak Gire.
 
 In the basic training sessions participants wore boxing gloves and tried some punches on boxing pads. Instructions about boxing techniques, punching, defence and attacking were given at these sessions.
 
 The ‘Choco-Mirchi challenge’ won hearts among the crowd. The people who participated were given a challenge to eat chillies for which they would get rewarded with the same number of chocolates. The person eating the maximum number of chillies was declared the winner. The Choco-Mirchi will also take to the social media platform and people would be asked to take the challenge by sharing their videos. The show was conducted against the backdrop of ‘de Chocolate Carnival,’ a chocolate festival organized by Twiddle Designography, powered by Maharastra Times Culture Club. The festival would be held at Krishna Sundar Garden on DP Road near Mhatre Bridge between January 26 and 28.
 
 Yoga sessions and meditation were performed at the venue for those looking for an overall well-being experience. The popular activities like Zumba and drum circle drummers’ sessions transpired energy across the the large gathering. Besides fun and fitness, social causes too were promoted at the event.
 
 Alliance, a social group, had organised an eye-donation awareness programme. “It is the need of the hour to promote eye and organ donation. More and more people should come forward to do it,” said organizing member Sanjeev Jain.
 
 “Happy Streets is good for more than one reason. People come here not only to enjoy the exhilarating sessions, but also to spread good social messages. We too feel the same and come here to promote the noble cause,” said Bela Jalan, a volunteer.
 
 As part of the programme, a special e-waste collection drive was conducted by   with NGO Poornam Eco Vision to ensure safe disposal of e-waste like computer hardware, batteries, LED bulbs and tubelights, etc.
 
 Happy Streets is organized by The Times of India and   in conjunction with Pune Police, Pune Traffic Police and Pune Municipal Corporation. The event, powered by Vilas Javdekar Developers, is aimed at popularizing the concept of vehicle-free roads for engaging citizens in community activities.
 
 To avoid inconvenience to other passers-by, care was taken to keep the cross roads from blocking during the programme. Two-way traffic was permitted on the adjoining road.
 
 
