KOCHI: The cash-strapped   decided to take a loan of Rs 10 crore to tide over financial crisis. 

 The decision has been taken in the background of the contractors threatening to go an indefinite strike from July 15.
 
 Opposition councillors questioned the decision of the ruling front to take loans frequently. Councillor   said that the corporation authorities should explore the possibilities of increasing generation of own funds. Last year too, the corporation authorities had to take a loan of Rs 10 crore for paying the bills of contractors who had carried out various works implemented by the local body. Mayor Soumini Jain said that the corporation had to pay Rs 50 lakh as interest on the Rs 10 crore loan taken last year. At the same time, there are disputes over the amount to be paid to the contractors. While the corporation authorities claimed that the local body owed the contractors just Rs 36 crore, the contractors put the amount at Rs 56 crore, C K Peter, councillor from Konthuruthy, said.
 
 Meanwhile, the corporation has decided to convene an all-party meeting to discuss the issue of giving road-cutting sanction for the   Adani Gas Private Limited (IOAGPL) for implementing the city gas project. If the road-cutting sanction is given to the IOAGPL at the rate fixed by the PWD, it will cause a loss of Rs 180 crore to the corporation. A total of 890 km will have to be dug up for laying pipes for city gas project.
 
 Works standing committee chairman PM Harris said that the local body is giving road-cutting sanction to government agencies like the KSEB and the KWA at a higher rate. If the corporation agrees to grant road-cutting sanction to IOAGPL at the rate fixed by PWD, it will cause huge loss which the local body is to get on account of restoration charges and track rent. 
 
 This would also result in damaging all the roads owned by the civic body. 
 
 An all-party meeting will take a decision on whether the local body will have to obey the government order, which asks the corporation to lower its road restoration charges in favour of IOAGPL.
 
 
