NASHIK: The   of Rs 10 lakh crore in the   for the   2017-18 will provide boost to the  , feel experts. 

 The government is committed to double farmers' income in 5 years by 2022 and for this, it has increased agricultural credit target by 11 per cent. Moreover, the government has also announced two dedicated funds for dairy development and micro irrigation with total provisions amounting to Rs 13,000 crore.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Nanasaheb Patil, director of the National Agricultural Co-operative Marketing Federation of India Ltd (NAFED), said, "The provision of Rs 10 lakh crore agricultural loan for farmers will definitely help boost the agricultural sector. The district will be most benefitted due to the provision of agricultural credits. Farmers here are engaged in horticulture and polyhouse farming. The grapes, onion, pomegranates, tomatoes and vegetables are the major crops of the district. The grapes and onions produced here are sent across the globe. Moreover, Nashik district supply vegetables mostly to Mumbai and Gujarat."
 
 He added, "The district credit plan under the Nabard is highest in the state. Hence, Nashik will definitely be most benefited from the Union budget. Presently, inadequate finance, electricity and marketing are the major hurdle. But the hurdle of finance is now cleared due to substantial provision for agricultural credit in the union budget. Provision of Rs 8,000 crore for dairy development will also help farmers increase their additional income."
 
 Manik Patil, Nashik divisional president of Maharashtra Rajya Draksha Bagayatdar Sangh, said, "Increasing provision for agricultural credit in the union budget is a really good move and will definitely boost entire agricultural sector of the country. But there is a need to make changes in agricultural credit limit fixed by the NABARD. The agricultural credit limit for onions is Rs 17,000 per acre for onions, while actual expenses for growing onions is Rs 50,000 per acre."
 
 He added, "Expenses for grapes are Rs 1.25 lakh per acre, but agricultural credit limit for grapes as per Nabard norms is Rs 90,000 per acre. The credit limit needs to be increased to pass on benefits to the farmers."
 
