NAGPUR: With Nagpur Municipal Corporation ( ) moving towards segregation of dry and wet garbage, the garbage collection agency appointed by it will have to come up with a fresh strategy to handle the segregated garbage seamlessly and efficiently. 
 
 Kanak Resource Management ( ) officials told TOI they are confident of handling the new system, if the citizens adopt the changes implemented by the civic body and properly separate their garbage as per the new policy.
 
 “Around 40% of our garbage collection trucks and vehicles have separate containers for carrying dry and wet waste. We are in the process of refurbishing the remaining vehicles in the same manner, and hopefully all our vehicles will be equipped with two garbage containers before June 5,” said Kamlesh Sharma, project head at KRM.
 
 The garbage collection centres are also being modified, so that they can recycle dry waste more efficiently, he said, adding, “We completely support this initiative of NMC and hope to help in every possible way. Waste segregation will allow better waste management and therefore give a cleaner, much better living space. Residential spaces will be officially told about this as well. I urge all residents of the city to cooperate with us.”
 
 Sachin Meshram, KRM zonal head of  , told TOI, “This attempt will not be successful without the support of the public. We, at KRM and NMC, can’t alone manage the waste efficiently, if the public chooses not to support us. 
 
 “If the waste we procure from colonies and housing societies isn’t segregated, it will add on to our labour. The most we can do is stop collecting garbage from these societies, but that can’t continue for long as well, since people may start dumping garbage in the open or in public spaces.”
 
 “Many of us already segregate waste to a certain level, and with public support, I firmly believe that Nagpur can manage 100% of the waste it produces,” Meshram added.
 
 “With proper segregation of waste we produce, not only can we utilize the waste properly and more efficiently, but also reduce the size of our dumping grounds. 
 
 “If the size of dumping grounds across the city is reduced, we can reduce the risk of several diseases spreading to neighbouring localities,” said Suresh Domne, KRM zonal head of Hanuman Nagar.
 
 (Reporting by Mayank Gurnani)
 
