NAGPUR: The tussle between Buty Mall developer — Goel Ganga Infrastructure and   Private Ltd — and Sitabuldi shopkeepers has taken a turn for the worse. The developer has dug into the foundation of three shops, leaving foundation pillars of one shop literally hanging with no base support, and posing a huge threat to the stability of the structure. The situation has become so dangerous that one glance at the sight is sure to set off alarm bells.

 The shops under threat are Gaysons clothes showroom, Chafekar Dugdh Mandir, Dubey Sound Systems, Vishranti Gruh and an optician’s shop situated on Sitabuldi market main road.
 
 Some of the shops seem to be in imminent danger. The soil below the foundation of two shops has started to slide. “The shops witness earthquake-like tremors during construction work going on behind the shops. There should be a safe distance from shops. The developer dug 20-30 metres right behind the shops. They want the shops to fall so that they can construct the mall,” said owner of a shop.
 
 However, vice-president of   denied any ‘conspiracy’ behind the digging below the shops.
 
 Owner of Gaysons, Ravi Agrawal, told TOI that the developer dug below the shop’s foundation on Friday night. “The shop is around 5,500 sq ft and two of its foundation pillars have no base below. The shop’s structure is 36 years old. We are in the shop at god’s mercy.” Agrawal said he had lodged a ‘series of complaints’ with the   (NMC),   (NIT) and police department, but the authorities have turned a blind eye towards the issue. “Police say it is a civil case and are suggesting me to bring specific orders from the court for action,” he added.
 
 The structures of other shops like Vishranti Gruh and Dubey Sound Systems are even older: about 90 years old. “The developer is taking a revenge on us by digging foundation of our shops,” said activist and owner of one of the shops Akshay Pandey. He claimed that NIT, in nexus with the developers, had issued notices to 18 shop owners for demolishing the shops for construction of the mall. The shop owners challenged the notices in the high court. “HC has stayed NIT’s notices. Even the developer’s review petition was set aside by HC. Therefore, developer intentionally doing such activities,” Pandey said.
 
 Goel Ganga’s   stated, “We want to complete the project on time. We dug behind the shops and soil below the shops slid. There is no threat to the shops. It’s our responsibility to ensure safety of shops and people. We have started to make a base so that structures do not damage.”
 
 An architect, on the condition of anonymity said it was a big threat as the structure will develop cracks once the foundation pillars are exposed. “Now, the structure might be standing with the support of remaining pillars. “NMC and police department should intervene for safety of structure and also people. There are such provisions in the acts,” he said. 
 
