PUNE: With Maharashtra all set to get a skill development university and several colleges and institutions launching various skill development courses, experts in the field said there was a need to establish a labour market information system. Academicians said that although the Union budget emphasised on skill development, the number of skilled manpower produced in the next few years would be huge and hence there was a need to set up a system for collaborative information and access to industry.

 Rishi Kapal, global strategist and chief executive, EDUGILD, and education technology accelerator, said, “The focus of the budget to support initiatives to make youth job ready is welcome. However, we expect a labour market information system to be created where industry job needs can be forecast with accuracy.”
 
 Former chairman of   (UGC)   said, “It’s a pleasant surprise that advanced skill training centres are being established by the government and that there is enough finance protected for this purpose in the budget. The government is also positively supporting the foreign language training which will help in creating a global job market for our citizens.”
 
 On the revision in reforms in UGC, Nigvekar said, “The UGC, which regulates higher education in India, needed reforms for quite a few years now and it is good to see a special allocation to the commission for this purpose. Besides, competitive exams have made life difficult for parents and children. The proposed  , which will be an empowered entity for competitive exams for government, private and deemed universities, is a very good step forward. Hopefully, the testing agency would be in place from next academic year.”
 
 Eminent scientist and former CSIR director general Raghunath Mashelkar said, “Allocation given to science and technology has seen a considerable growth over the past few years. The allocation for department of biotechnology has increased by 22 per cent which is commendable. Reforms to give autonomy to educational institution were a necessary step in order to raise the quality of education.”
 
 Mashelkar said, “Good autonomy and good governance is the essence of world class institutions. When I was working with the University Department of Chemical Technology, Mumbai, it received autonomy after a few years and I became chairman of the board and it was renamed as   (ICT). Then we went for university status and received full autonomy. The transformation it underwent after receiving the autonomy status was tremendous and it got reflected in the 2016 university rankings, where it grabbed the second spot. That’s what autonomy can do,” Mashelkar said.
 
