SURAT: Laliben Patel, from   travels over 17 kms to sell fish in   every morning. Her mode of transportation is a private chakkda from Dumas. While returning in the evening, she would wait at the Chowk Bazaar bus station for the city bus, sometimes she has to wait over an one hour because there is not timetable of city buses at the bus stop. She knows that the city bus number 216 shuttles between Chowk Bazaar and Dumas. As she spots the bus, she hurriedly boards it to reach home. 

 She is not an isolated case. There are many like Laliben groping in the dark over the scheduled arrival and departure of the city buses operated by the   ( ). 
 
 Though more than 200 buses are plying on city roads covering over 530 bus stations on 22 routes, the passengers have to literally wait for the buses in absence of a system to monitor movement of these buses.
 
 While residents are happy on the SMC’s initiative on increasing the public transportation facilities in the form of city buses and BRTS, but lack of planning and absence of public information system have resulted in people opting for auto-rickshaws. 
 
 The civic body has added another 75 buses to its existing fleet of 154 city buses. These new buses, according to the civic body, will be plying on the routes including railway station to Dindoli, railway station to Pandesara GIDC, railway station to VNSGU to name a few. 
 
 Sources said that around 1.40 lakh people travel in the existing fleet of 154 city buses and around 110 BRTS buses on daily basis. However, the timings of the arrival and departure of the city buses and BRTS buses are odd and depends on the availability of the passenger. 
 
 Residents believe that the condition of the city bus and BRTS services are like the stray cattle loitering on the roads. 
 
 Rajesh Talpare, a mechanic in the automobile showroom in Piplod said, “For the success of the city bus and BRTS services, the civic body needs to fix the timetable of the arrival and departure of the buses. Just displaying the bus numbers is not going to help. Also, you can’t wait at the bus stand to board the buses, as they stop far away from the stands.”
 
 Another resident,  , a peon in the school at Palanpore Patia said, “I see many buses plying on the Chowk Bazaar to Rander route, but their timings are very odd. When we need the bus in the evening, there is none. However, the only option is to travel in an auto.”
 
 Talking to TOI, senior civic officer said, “Very soon we are going to display detailed timetable for the buses at the stands and on the electric board at the BRTS stations. This will give an idea to the passengers travelling regularly about the bus numbers, arrival and departure.”
 
