Bhopal: The state government is likely to give its nod to setting up of ‘water regulatory commission’ on the lines of Madhya Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission. The Bhopal Municipal Corporation ( ) sent a proposal for a regulatory commission that would fix price of water and act as consumer grievances redressal forum.

 Simply put, it is going to cost more to get drinking water. Complaints or protests before elected representative won’t resolve the problem. Going by domestic water rate of Rs 14 per 1000 litre, notified by the state government in 2006, an average consumer may have to shell out a minimum of Rs 420 per month. Currently, the civic body charges a flat rate of Rs 180 per month.
 
 “A proposal for regulatory authority was sent to the state government. It aims at rationalisation of extremely depressed rates of water supply, especially for commercial, industrial and bulk users,” said BMC commissioner Chhavi Bhardwaj.
 
 To date, the civic body has not fixed water rates for industrial use. Industrial use of water is charged at commercial rates. “Water is an essential commodity like electricity. A rationalised rate structure will also enable conservation of the precious resource,” she said.
 
 The regulatory body would periodically review and monitor of water sector costs and revenues of municipal bodies like the BMC. Sources said that formulation of a body is expected in the next few weeks to cut civic bodies’ losses.
 
 As per the current tariff structure, water cess is fixed at Rs 14, Rs 18 per 1000 litre for domestic and commercial use. The civic body expenditure on supply of water is about Rs 94 crore, which is collects just about Rs 180 per month from domestic consumers.
 
 BMC primary focus is billing consumers through water meters or pay per use. There are about 1.19 lakh consumers, who have on paper been fitted with water meters. However, bills are being generated for just about 15,000 consumers.
 
 Madhya Pradesh state water policy (2003) calls for rationalisation of water rates. Water rates should be such that it conveys beneficiary the value of water, its importance and motivates them for economical use of water. Water rates necessarily shall be such that the project shall be self-supported. For the use of water for private purposes, rates shall be determined in such a manner so that the water can be used strictly in accordance with prescribed priorities laid down in the policy. Due to the importance of the forest for protection of environment, concessional rates of water shall be fixed for afforestation, it stated.
 
 The sub-group of the regulatory body is expected to consist of independent researchers, academics, representatives from the government, as well as civil society organisations each having a long-standing experience of working in water sector.
 
 ***
 
 Water regulatory authority likely brief
 
 Fix, regulate water cess system
 
 Cost recovery, reducing subsidies
 
 Water access, extraction, use
 
 Accountability of political institutions
 
 It will be provided necessary resources 
 
 Public participating in sub-groups
 
 ***
 
 Water tariff system, charges for water used for domestic, bulk, commercial, industrial purposes
 
 Periodical review, monitoring water sector costs, revenues
 
 ***
 
 Cess structure
 
 Rs 6.30: Upper Lake
 
 Rs 9.30: Kolar
 
 Rs 12.80: Narmada
 
 New price line likely to be around 
 
 Rs 17.50 per 1,000 litre
 
 ***
 
 
