Actor   has been a perennial presence in Malayalam serials, and it’s no surprise that he’s starred in several hit projects including Jwalayayi, Sthree, Pakalmazha and Charulatha. Unlike many small screen heroes, he also managed to create a mark on the silverscreen with films such as Celluloid, Mumbai Police and North 24 Kaatham. 

 Mukundan’s latest character Udayavarma in the serial Eeran Nilavu has been winning him plaudits for ably portraying a middle-aged theatre artiste. The actor talks to us about what appealed the most to him about the character, his journey so far and more...
 
 
 
 
 I have savoured every stage of my acting career and personally, I am content with what I have achieved. There were times, when I felt things did not pan out as expected and my skills might not have been used to the fullest. But I have always believed that there’s more to be achieved. The thought that ‘Ithu vare kandathonnum alla, iniyanu kaanan pokunnathu’ is what should keep one going in the industry.
 
 
 
 
 When I completed 25 years, I decided to take a break from serials because I thought there has to be something fresh in the roles I am doing. If you are repeating the same thing, both you and the audience will get bored. That was the same time when I landed roles in Netholi Oru Cheriya Meenalla and Mumbai Police, so I got busy with that. 
 
 However, I had never left serials permanently. When I was offered Udayavarma’s character, I was in dilemma whether I should take it up. But now, having worked in the serial, I am sure that I would have regretted if I did not.
 
 
 
 
 The serial is about a couple, Udayavarma and Nandana. Playing a middle-aged character onscreen was what lured me. I have come across such couples too where people often ask the man if the wife is his daughter. When it comes to Udayavarma and Nandana, the story delves into how the husband feels when the wife is much younger than him.
 
 My character is a theatre artiste and he lives with someone, who has no idea about his field. That’s what makes their relationship different. Their love evolves with passage of time. There isn’t any overt affection, theirs is a mature relationship and that’s something new to the audience too.
 
 
 
 
 People have complimented me saying they could see me convey expressions merely through the eyes. The majority of our serials these days have been riding high on the expressions of the actors; often more than what’s required. In theatre, we term it as amateurish acting. It happens when one doesn’t know how to take the story forward on TV.
 
 The fact that Eeran Nilavu has managed to keep it subtle has attracted a select audience as well. Interestingly, the people, who have given me feedback are not the usual lot but intellectuals and a well-educated crowd. When I had gone to Hyderabad, an army colonel told me that there was never a day when he stayed awake after 10 pm. However, after watching an episode of the serial, he changed his schedule. His is just one of the many such stories from the audience of the serial who appreciate its content. 
 Though there have been a lot of good roles in my career, I have really enjoyed doing Udayavarma’s character as there is a lot of scope for performing.
 
 
 
 
 Initially, I used to note the number of serials I have acted in. After crossing 100, I have stopped counting, and I have now reached a mature stage, when such things don’t hold much significance. I have always wanted to do a dual personality in a film, especially one that we call, ‘soumyanaya villain’ or the like. I am also keen to do situational comedy, which makes use of one’s acting finesse. I am mainly seeking to do character roles that will last for a long time.
 
 
 
 
 I have finished shooting for the film Captain, which has Jayasurya in the lead role, Arun George’s Ladoo and cinematographer Dinesh Babu’s movie.
 However, I have never really made TV or films as my sole focus. Acting in serials are like writing on sand, which will be erased with time. But being part of cinema is like inscribing your name in history as your roles will linger in the minds of the audience.
 
