KOLKATA: Quick thinking and a   by a  , a  , led to the arrest of a   from South 24 Parganas as the   just after Friday midnight. 

 The gang of four, posing as traffic cops, stopped the truck, and "ordered" the driver to follow them to a police station as he had flouted rules. The gang reportedly overpowered the driver and drove away with the truck when the two cops - constable Prakash Chandra Mondol and homeguard Pradip Haldar - patrolling the streets on their bikes, arrived on the spot. What followed was a 4-km chase and four hours later, the gang was in the police net. 
 
 The police said the incident started at Majherhat Bridge, which wore a desolate look as it was already past midnight, when only a few cars and goods vehicles sped past. 
 
 Constable Mondol and homeguard Haldar, both from the Alipore police station, out on their patrol duty, noticed an injured man lying on the footpath. Identifying himself as Anil Routh, the man told them he was driving a truck from Mumbai to ferry computer accessories to a workshop at Beniapukur when he was suddenly stopped by four persons on Majherhat Bridge, linking Alipore and Taratala. 
 
 The four, on two two-wheelers, introduced themselves as plain-clothed cops and reportedly ordered Routh to follow them to the local police station, as he had violated traffic rules. But as Routh refused, they reportedly beat him up, robbed him of his belongings and snatched away the truck key. As one of the members were about to start the truck, Routh reportedly jumped off; the gang member reportedly drove away with the truck as the other three followed it on their bikes.
 
 On alerting local police stations, Mondol and Haldar decided to go in the truck's direction. Soon enough, they managed to spot it and further down, they blocked its way near Behala Chowrasta. The gang member at the wheel was arrested. Of the other three, one managed to flee, but the other two were rounded up in the next couple of hours, under the guidance of the additional OC. "We will arrest him soon as we have leads," said joint commissioner of police (crime) Vishal Garg.
 
 The arrested, identified as Hasanullah Khan, Imadur Rahman and Sayantan Sikdar, were from Ravindranagar in South 24 Parganas, and were history-sheeters, the police said. Interrogations of Khan, who headed a part of the racket, would help them bust the entire gang, the police added. 
 
 Lalbazar will reward Mondol and Haldar for their efforts.
 
 
