Bengaluru: A Congress corporator was arrested by the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) sleuths on Friday on charges of demanding and accepting bribe from a civil contractor. Two BBMP engineers present at his house were also nabbed. 

 The arrested are Rajajinagar (Ward 99) corporator Krishnamurthy, assistant executive engineer Arun Kumar and assistant engineer Krishna. ACB sources said they had received a tip-off that the corporator was demanding bribe from a contractor, Dhananjay, for getting his bills cleared in BBMP.
 
 Dhananjay had bagged a Rs three crore contract for a building renovation in Rajajinagar but the sum payable to him was not being released due to bureaucratic hurdles. The contractor found out that Krishnamurthy was mounting pressure on BBMP officials against disbursing the amount. Sources said the corporator, who claimed to have access to chief minister Siddaramaiah’s inner circle, had allegedly demanded a kickback to ensure release of the money. After negotiations, the corporator allegedly settled for Rs 23 lakh bribe. He was caught red-handed by the ACB sleuths when he was accepting the first instalment of Rs 15 lakh from the contractor at his residence in Basaveshwaranagar. The two BBMP officials were at the corporator’s house at the time. 
 
 According to sources, Krishnamurthy tried to drop the names of a few influential persons to deter the sleuths from initiating action. However, ACB superintendent of police, Girish, refused to budge. In fact, there was high drama at Krishnamurthy’s residence following the raid, as his sister staged a demonstration alleging the former was innocent and was being falsely implicated by his political detractors.
 
 A first-time corporator, Krishnamurthy was a Class-I BBMP contractor and had been mentored by a powerful sitting minister before having moved to the Siddaramaiah camp, sources said. Mayor G Padmavathi said the first-time corporator was a good worker and the latest development was just an attempt to frame him ahead of the assembly elections.
 
 “He has been in politics for a while. Since only a year is left for the elections, people are playing games to give him a bad name. This is very common ahead of polls,” she said.
 
 
