KOLKATA: In a span of a less than a month, two mothers from very different socio-economic backgrounds — a 12-year-old Howrah girl raped by her karate teacher and a 30-year-old Alipore resident molested at a   nightclub — lodged police complaints after they were violated. The duo has taken forward the trend that sexual assault survivors have set in the state over the last few years.

 Statistics with the West Bengal Women’s Commission reveal that after 2013, there has been a steady rise in the number of women speaking out about domestic violence and sexual abuse. Till 2013, women were told to keep such incidents of violation under wraps. But now, the commission is receiving at least two complaints of domestic violence and sexual   from married women every month.
 
 When   spoke out after being allegedly gang raped, she had to hear that a single woman had only invited trouble by being out alone at night. “Pink” hadn’t yet hit the big screen. Five years and the ‘Pink’ revolution later, protesting is still not easy. In the MBar attack, this 30-year-old lady has also had to fight tremendous pressure. Her harshest critics have asked how a mother of a two-month-old baby could go partying. 
 
 “These are the kind of things that patriarchy will always say to silence women who want to protest. When women ask these questions, it just shows that they are jealous,” said  , director of the commission. Even the family members of the 12-year-old mother hadn’t stopped her from demanding justice. “Why should she feel ashamed and hide herself? It is the culprit who should feel ashamed. No one can silence our voice,” her aunt said.
 
 ‘Pink’ director Aniruddha Roychowdhury feels those who protect perpetrators are only putting their daughters and wives in danger. “They are not realising that one day, these things will boomerang. It’s shameful that they are threatening those who are complaining,” he said.
 
 According to psychotherapist Mansi Poddar, Nirbhaya’s case was the turning point. “Many famous women are standing up and the law is making it harder for abusers to get away. There is a grassroot movement by people to stigmatise assault and molestation,” she said.
 
