BHUBANESWAR: Senior BJP leader   once again took a stand diametrically opposite to that of his party's on Mahanadi but in sync with the position taken by the BJD and the  . 

 Mohapatra termed the Centre's move for a   to resolve the water sharing dispute as a non-serious attempt, "which may complicate the dispute." The BJP had welcomed the Union water resources ministry's 12-member panel as a logical first step following the state's request for a tribunal.
 
 Speaking to reporters here, the former minister and BJP national executive member said, "The Centre should form a tribunal under the Interstate River Water Disputes Act, 1956, without wasting time. Formation of the committee doesn't seem a step to end the row."
 
 Mohapatra said after failure of the two tripartite meetings, first chaired by the Union water resources secretary and attended by chief secretaries of Odisha and Chhattisgarh and the other chaired by water resources minister Uma Bharti and attended by chief ministers of the two states, there is no scope left for negotiation.
 
 Mohapatra said while the dispute is between Odisha and Chhattisgarh, the Centre had only complicated it by dragging Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Jharkhand into it by including them in the panel.
 
 On how his own party welcomed the new committee announced on Thursday, Mohapatra said, "I am taking a stand which I feel is in Odisha's interest. I have been consistent in saying that only a tribunal can solve the row much before the state government demanded it in November. I have not changed my position."
 
 "When Odisha government sought a tribunal, my own party welcomed it. So, there is no ambiguity as far as demand for a tribunal is concerned," added Mohapatra.
 
 "Some of my colleagues had said Odisha should agree for a   as per a 1983 agreement signed by Odisha and erstwhile Madhya Pradesh. I had said such a move would be utter foolishness," Mohapatra said in an indirect reference to oil minister Dharmendra Pradhan's earlier suggestion for a joint control board.
 
 State BJP vice-president Sameer Mohanty said what Mohapatra said may be his personal remarks. 
 
 "Our party is of the view that the negotiation committee is a logical first step before the Centre could think of a tribunal as per norms. First, the Centre has to be convinced that the problem can't be solved through negotiations," Mohanty said.
 
 The BJD and the Congress have criticised the formation of the 12-member panel under the chairmanship of by member (water planning and projects),  .
 
