PUNE: Badlapur resident Leela started to walk soon after a surgery was carried out on her left knee last week. The 58-year-old was able to climb a staircase without any pain the very next day and was  . 

 A year-and-a-half ago, however, when Leela had undergone surgery on her right leg, the doctor had replaced her complete knee with an artificial joint (total knee replacement surgery). It took her nearly four months to become fully mobile. 
 
 The difference, experts say, is in a new surgical technique called robotic-assisted knee arthroplasty. It is set to become a game-changer in   in India, they foretell. 
 
 What sets it apart is that it enables the surgeon to replace only the damaged part of the knee, saving all the other normal structures and healthy tissues, which are otherwise replaced in total knee replacement surgery.
 
 The new surgery has opened up a host of possibilities and raised hopes to millions of patients suffering from osteoarthritis of knee that occurs when the protective cartilage wears down over time, doctors said.
 
 “The robotic assisted surgical technique is performed using minimally invasive technique with a small incision. This reduces the post-operative pain, intra-operative bleeding and ensures speedy recovery. Generally, a patient can walk the very next day of the operation. Almost 30% - 35% patients who have been advised total knee replacement can be treated with this modality successfully,” chief joint replacement surgeon   of  , who performed the surgery on Leela, said.
 
 The surgical technique does not involve cutting of many bones or ligaments. “The incision and dissection a surgeon had to do for replacing the diseased cartilage has been drastically reduced in this surgery. However, the surgery cannot be beneficial to all patients. Only a surgeon can decide whether a patient should go for robotic knee surgery or normal knee surgery after initial diagnosis and observation,” Vaidya said.
 
 The surgical technique is suitable for relatively younger patients with an active way of life pursuing sports and lifestyle activities like playing golf, tennis, trekking, cycling, swimming and a dynamic work-life. “Elderly patients who have higher risk of major procedures can also benefit from this technology,” Vaidya, who has performed the surgery on six patients so far, said.
 
 In the treatment of arthritis, beyond stage II, medicines, physiotherapy and other arthroscopic interventions are not useful. Such patients require total knee replacement as definitive treatment. It is a time-tested and proven method to treat terminal arthritis, but involves prolonged hospitalisation and physiotherapy. “However, robotic assisted surgery offers the patient a huge advantage of immediate recovery, same or next day discharge and minimal blood loss,” joint replacement surgeon Rakesh Patil said.
 
