GURUGRAM: A 26-year-old man from Delhi was shot dead at   in   on Sunday evening, in what appeared to be a  . Police claimed to have identified all the seven persons involved in the murder of Vikrant Singh, alias Vikky, a resident of Gopal Nagar in west Delhi.

 If sources are to be believed, some of those seven men are members of the gang of infamous gangster  , who is currently lodged in Tihar Jail for several cases, including half-a-dozen murders. Vikrant was allegedly a member of a rival gang, which was reportedly involved in the murder of Manjeet’s father   (75), who was shot down outside his house in outer Delhi’s Najafgarh on January 29.
 
 In his complaint, Vikrant’s father Nepal Singh told police that some people had come to their Gopal Nagar residence in search of his son on Sunday evening. They forced him to get into their car, and drove off. Late in the evening, residents of Bajherha found the bullet-riddled body of Vikrant, who owned a club at Rajokri, Delhi, in their village, around 18km from Gopal Nagar. The body bore at least three bullet marks.
 
 After preliminary investigation, DCP (crime) Sumit Kuhar said the deceased’s father had named three persons — Vikas, a resident of Jhajjar (Haryana), Anshul and Rahul, residents of Najafgarh (Delhi) — in his complaint. On the basis of that, the other four persons have also been identified. Cops have also identified the two cars — Hyundai i20 and Chevrolet Beat, both with Delhi registration numbers — which were used in the crime.
 
 “Preliminary probe suggests three days ago, Vikrant had a dispute with these people (over money), and the murder, in all probability, is the outcome of that incident,” said Kuhar, adding all the criminals will be arrested very soon.
 
 An FIR has been registered against the seven people under sections 302 (murder) 34 (collective act for common intention) of the IPC and the Arms Act. 
 
 According to sources, police have formed two teams, which are looking into both the money and a gangwar angles, which might have triggered the brutal murder. 
 
 
