AURANGABAD: Winter is set to get chillier in the first few days of the New Year. Setting the trend, the minimum temperature, on Wednesday, dropped to around 10 degrees celsius in the city. 

 The   (IMD) has predicted a further dip of around 1 degree celsius in the next few days.
 
 The city on Wednesday registered a maximum temperature of 29.2 degrees celsius and a minimum of 10.4 degree s celsius. Both the temperatures were by and large in line with the average mercury levels, the met department data indicated.
 
 The city, on Monday, had reported a minimum temperature of 12.4 degrees celsius, which declined gradually over a period of 48-hours.
 
 Shriniwas Aundhkar, director of the Nanded-based MGMs  , said that a strong presence of western disturbances was responsible for the current winter conditions.
 
 “The present period is expected to last for the next few days followed by a further dip in the minimum temperature as western disturbances could become stronger,” he said adding that the current weather conditions were perfectly in keeping with the annual pattern with no deviation observed at all. 
 
 Among other cities, Osmanabad, Parbhani and Beed reported a minimum temperature of 8.9 degrees celsius, 10 degrees celsius and 13.4 degrees celsius, respectively.
 
 As per the IMD record, the city’s lowest temperature in January was witnessed in 1968 with mercury levels dipping to 1.2 degrees celsius. Last year, the lowest temperature recorded for the month was on 27 January and it was 8.4 degrees celsius. 
 
 B B Bhosale, director of extension education at Vasantrao Naik Marathwada Agricultural University, Parbhani, said that the current winter conditions are favourable for Rabi crops, but problems could crop up if winter becomes harsher.
 
 “If the winter conditions get colder, Rabi sorghum could get infested with Chikta (Leaf sugary melady) that affects photosynthesis of plants. Other Rabi crops including Chickpea and Pigeon pea have the ability to sustain harsher weather conditions without any issues. The Pigeon pea crop is currently in the harvesting stage,” he said. 
 
 
