By 
 
BENGALURU: The Central Crime Branch (CCB) will investigate the alleged molestation on Brigade Road on New Year’s Eve.
 
 Police filed an FIR in a molestation case on Tuesday night, based on footage provided by TOI; however, the evidence was of an incident in Kammanahalli, a residential area in east Bengaluru. Teams going through the footage of celebrations on Brigade Road have still not found any prosecutable evidence.
 
 As examination of footage inches towards closure, and with no evidence surfacing, police are appealing to people to come forward to provide any information or footage available. “We filed an FIR within hours of getting footage of Kammanahalli. We have already taken a few suspects into custody. If anyone provides us with such evidence (CCTV camera) on Brigade Road or any other place, we will take strict action,” said a senior officer.
 
 Police have gone through more than 45 reels of footage. “If we are given coordinates of any lady molested on 31st at M G Rd, we the police will visit her and take appropriate action without delay,” tweeted city police commissioner Praveen Sood.
 
 Officers added that without any   or statements from the survivor or eyewitnesses, police will not be able to build a case on the incidents on Brigade Road. Apart from requests for eyewitnesses to come forward, police are also questioning their own officers present at the location, for more possible clues.
 
 According to these officers, some of the photographs carried in the media were of revellers being helped by cops, and not of molestation survivors. Sources said police are also asking media houses to provide them footage they have of the alleged molestation, to build a case.
 
 Women asked for help, did not report molestation 
 
 Instances of molestation on the city streets are no secret, and many women have spoken up against it. While many fingers have been raised against cops, police officers, including a woman officer who was featured in many photographs of alleged molestation on Brigade Road, narrate a different version of what transpired that night.
 
 The female officers said that a woman in a black top, who was holding on to her in the photograph, came out after celebrations and asked her for help to find her friends, who were nearby. The officer said the woman didn’t complain of any molestation and had only asked for help to find her friends. “We found her friends and took her to safety,” she added.
 
 Another officer said that a woman, dressed in white, had hurt her foot and needed support even to walk. The officer said he gave her water, sat her down and later helped her get home. Even this girl, he said, needed help to get home and didn’t report to him being molested by the crowd.
 
 Senior police officers said that since the photographs surfaced, the officer was questioned to understand the incidents that unfolded on New Year’s Eve. Officers said that available footage of these women featured in the media were checked, and no visuals of them being molested were found. “As visuals of these women in photographs were not available and they didn’t report any incident to officers who were helping them, how can we book a case?” asked the officer.
 
 
 
 
 
