Shia LeBeouf has once again landed on the wrong side of law enforcement after being arrested for disorderly conduct and public drunkenness in Savannah, Georgia.

 According to the Savannah-Chatham Metropolitan Police, the arrest took place after LaBeouf allegedly became "disorderly" in City Market in the early morning hours on July 8 after he asked a bystander for a cigarette.
 
 "When LaBeouf wasn't given a cigarette, he became disorderly, using profanities and vulgar language in front of the women and children present," police said in a statement. "He was told to leave the area and refused, becoming aggressive toward the officer."
 
  "When the officer attempted to place LaBeouf under arrest, LaBeouf ran to a nearby hotel," it further read. "LaBeouf was arrested in the hotel lobby, where his disorderly behaviour continued." According to the sources, was in police custody in Georgia until 11 a.m. ET and was released on a 3,500 dollar bond.
 
  LaBeouf is currently in Savannah filming 'The Peanut Butter Falcon.' This isn't the first time the former Disney star, who rose to fame on the show 'Even Stevens,' had a brush with the law. He was arrested in 2005 for allegedly threatening a neighbour with a knife and was charged with assault with a deadly weapon.
 
  In 2007, he was again arrested on charges of Misdemeanour Criminal trespassing after he refused to leave a Chicago   when asked, though those charges were later dropped.
 
  Just a few months later, he was ticketed for unlawful smoking in Burbank, California and faced a 1,000 dollar bench warrant for his arrest when he failed to show up in court to answer to the charge. He later paid a 500 dollar fine for the offense. The 'Transformer' star was then arrested in West   for drunk driving in 2008.
 
  In 2011, LaBeouf was taken into police custody after an altercation with another patron at a bar in Sherman Oaks, California that ended with him being punched in the face. He was arrested in New York back in 2014 for 'drunken behaviour' following which he sought help for alcohol addiction in rehab.
 
  A few months ago, he was arrested at his own New York art exhibit when he assaulted a man at an anti-Trump display. 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
