BOKARO: A 22-year-old girl, who is a former   player, has lodged a complaint of   against her coach, Kamlesh Thakur, and the general secretary of   Sanjay Sharma. The victim has also alleged that Sharma sexually abused her on multiple occasions after clicking objectionable photographs and threatening to upload those on social media. 

 The girl had lodged complaint in this connection with Kamla Market police station in Delhi on February 8. The girl had first approached the   for justice from where the case was referred to Kamla Market police station. “The girl was afraid to file a complaint in Jharkhand owing to alleged political connections of the accused so they approached us and we took the matter to the police,” said a DCW source.
 
 The probe has now been transferred to the Sector-IV police station of Bokaro as the rape allegedly took place in a private school in the city. “The victim has alleged that Thakur had outraged her modesty in the school during a championship when she was studying in Class 9 in 2008,” said Ajay Kumar, DSP (city).
 
 The girl was 15-year-old at the time of the incident. The victim in her complaint has alleged that she came in contact with Sharma after Thakur raped her. She approached Sharma on phone to file a complaint against Thakur. After listening to her ordeal, Sharma called her to his house at Harmu in Ranchi. When she went there, Sharma allegedly gave her a biscuit and some water to drink and after consuming these she fell unconscious.
 
 Later when she regained conscious she found herself on a bed. She then realised that Sharma had also raped her. From that day, Sharma started abusing her sexually in his house, car and at the rest house. Her agony continued as Sharma threatened to make her objectionable photographs public which he had clicked when she was unconscious. The girl has alleged that Sharma also blackmailed her by threatening that he would not give her certificates related to her participation in games.
 
 Sharma, however, denied the allegation saying it’s a conspiracy hatched to remove him from the post of general secretary of the federation. Thakur also denied the allegations by saying “it’s baseless”.
 
