PATNA: Education minister   on Friday said a penalty of up to Rs 1 lakh could be imposed on coaching centres charging exorbitant fees and action would be taken if they do not comply with registration norms.

 Replying to a question of Congress MLC Dilip Chaudhary in the state legislative council, the minister said action would be taken against the coaching institutes who fail to register themselves till today. The MLC had raised the issue of mushrooming of coaching institutions in the state capital in blatant violation of existing laws.
 
 “Action would be taken against coaching institutes functioning without registration. The Act introduced by the state government had clearly mentioned all the parameters related to fee structure, parking and other facilities, and if a student is denied the facility, action would be taken against coaching institutes,” the minister said.
 
 He informed the House that there are around 978 coaching institutes in the state. While 233 institutions have obtained registration, applications of 77 institutes have been rejected. However BJP MLC   said the number of coaching institutes in the state is more than 4,000.
 
 Referring to vacancies in secondary and senior secondary schools, the minister admitted that 2,284 posts of Hindi teachers are lying vacant in secondary schools and 526 in senior secondary schools, while 1,202 posts of Sanskrit teachers are vacant in secondary schools and 11 in senior secondary schools. Similarly, 815 posts of Urdu teachers in secondary schools and 95 in senior secondary schools, 2,415 posts of English teachers in secondary schools and 1,041 senior secondary schools, 1,687 posts of mathematics teachers in secondary schools and 791 in senior secondary schools and 1,584 posts science teachers in secondary schools and 2,425 in senior secondary schools are also lying vacant in the state. The minister said the recruitment process for all the vacant posts has already been initiated by the government.
 
 The minister criticised the Centre for slashing funds to the state education department. “In 2009-10, state education department got Rs 4,318 crore from the Centre. It has been slashed to Rs 2,091 crore now,” Choudhary said.
 
 
