NEW DELHI: It’s something that many, many Indians across the country can relate to instantly -  . Or, in English,  . What has been popular across schools, colleges and hostels for years - particularly in north India - has become one man’s passion and calling. And he has reached the top level of this sport. 

 Meet Delhi’s  , who started arm wrestling in 1989 and straight away defeated the then state champion. From there on, there has been no looking back for Laxman, who has won several medals at the state and national level and participated in two Asian and two World Asian Arm Wrestling Championships. 
 
 Last month, Laxman won gold and bronze medals in the 70kg master category at the   held at Bistory, Kyrgyzstan which is organized by the Kyrgyzstan Arm Wrestling Federation. He has also been awarded a gold medal for promoting arm wrestling by the Asian and World Arm Wrestling Federations.
 
 
 
  
 
 Laxman also serves as the General Secretary, Coach and Technical Director of IAF, Delhi and Sr. Referee, WAF. To promote the sports, he also provides free arm wrestling training in Delhi every Sunday and has trained thousands of students till date. 
  
 Arm wrestling is a very popular sport in India. Over 650 men and women players from 25 states participated in the 41st National Arm Wrestling Championship in Delhi from May 18-21 this year under the aegis of the  .
  
 However, due to the absence of government recognition, Laxman had to bear lodging, boarding and training costs himself for all the championships. The World Arm Wrestling Championships are scheduled to be held in Budapest, Hungary from September 2-11 this year and without sponsorship, it looks impossible for him to participate.
  
 Laxman’s dream is to win India a gold medal at the World Arm Wrestling Championship and he is hopeful that the Indian government recognises the oldest and highly economical sport for everyone. He wants to see the game being included the Olympics, so that he can bring laurels for the country.
 
 
