BENGALURU: For members of the Marathi community,   are steeped in tradition -families come together for prayers and rituals, and the aroma of festive savouries wafts through the air.

 “Starting with Ghatasthapana, which is what we call the first day of Navratri, pujas are performed every day. We worship the nine different forms of the goddess,“ said Rekha Naik, president,  .
 
 Four major rituals are per formed by Maharashtrian families on Vijayadashami -seemollanghan (crossing the city or village limits), shamipujan (bringing leaves from the shami tree and worshipping them), aparajitapujan (invoking Aparajita, an incarnation of Durga) and shastrapujan (worship of metal instruments).
 
 “Ghatasthapana (mounting of a jar) is done in the ancestral house. This year, my sister-in-law is hosting it. Different kinds of cereals are put in the ghata, and then a lamp is lit, which must remain illuminated for nine days and nights. A different delicacy is pre pared on each day. On Dasara, we worship vehicles and prepare a sweet dish called shrikhand, which is made of hung curd,“ said Veena Kawathekar, a Maharashtrian who has made Bengaluru her home.
 
 Seemollanghan and shamipujan have a Mahabharata link. Legend has it that during their last year in exile, the Pandavas had to disguise themselves so that no one could identify them. They took off their vestments and left   The next year, they returned to the tree and put on the clothes again.
 
 “Traditionally, male members of the family are supposed to cross the city limits as part of seemollanghan and bring back a few Sha mi leaves. The leaves are distributed among the elders and other community members, who bless us in return,“ Veena added.
 
 Pujas are held twice a day throughout the festival. “Every day, we adorn the goddess' statue with a new garland and make a new rangoli. Puran poli, kheer, vada and a chickpea dish are among the savouries preapred on the eighth day .I make a lamp from manure and keep it in the courtyard. On Dashami, I smash all the diyas and makes a ravan out of them,“ said Karuna Madhukar Sonar, who moved to Bengaluru seven years ago.
 
 
 
 
 Bengali Association for Residents of Sarjapur and HSR (BARSHA) will celebrate Durga Puja at 15th Cross, HSR Layout Sector 4. The celebrations will see performances by Chandrabindoo, a band from Kolkata; Yakshagana troupe Mekhla Dasgupta & group and 6 Vedas, a group from West Bengal. Revellers can also look forward to Dandiya Nights with DJ Neil at Park Hotel from September 26-30.
 
