Jalandhar: The State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission has ordered a private hospital in Jalandhar to pay Rs 27 lakh to the husband and two daughters of a 53-year-old government school teacher, who had died at the hospital on August 25, 2013, after a gall bladder surgery.

 A local resident, Vishwa Mittar Sharma, along with his two daughters, had filed a complaint before the state commission on September 19, 2014, alleging that his wife Sunita Sharma was admitted at Patel Hospital on August 22, 2013, where stones from her gall bladder were removed in an operation by Dr S K Sharma. A drain pipe was fitted for extraction of pus cells and waste blood, which got removed when the patient was asked to walk. Instead of correcting/refitting the pipe a bandage was applied, the complainant had alleged.
 
 The condition of the patient deteriorated from August 22 to 23 but instead of repairing the drain pipe, antibiotics and medicines were increased and she was put under the care of a GAMS doctor, leaving her in incompetent hands, the complainant alleged, while adding that bile kept on accumulating and her condition became worse in the early hours of August 24. He stated that an ultrasound revealed that four litre of bile had got accumulated in the previous 36 hours and an irreparable damage had been done. Sunita died on the morning of August 25, 2013.
 
 However, respondents Dr Sharma and Dr Manvir Walia rebutted the allegations and denied any medical negligence. They also cited the report by a medical board constituted by the Jalandhar civil surgeon after patient’s husband had lodged a complaint with the commissioner of police, which stated that no negligence had been proven. The doctors also cited a review by another medical board from Government Medical College, Amritsar, which also held that no medical negligence had taken place. They held that specialist doctors had treated her.
 
 About reinserting the tube, they held that it would have required another major surgery for which the patients was at high risk and endobiliary stent was placed and she was under observation. 
 
 However, after examining the records the state commission held that there were multiple overwritings in the record and inference could be drawn that cuttings were made to change the time to show that there was no delay in conducting the ultrasound. The commission also held that the medical opinion was just to help the commission to arrive at a proper conclusion, not binding in nature. Holding that the doctors were deficient in not following the proper procedure in the post-operative session, the commission in its recent order stated that they did not take proper care of the patient and latter died due to lack of supervision, making it a case of medical negligence.
 
 The state consumer commission’s presiding judicial member Gurcharan Singh Saran and member Rajinder Kumar Goyal in their order awarded compensation of Rs 25.50 lakh, Rs 1 lakh as compensation for harassment of the complainant and Rs 50,000 as litigation expenses, which would be paid by the hospital, Dr Sharma and Dr Walia.
 
 
