AHMEDABAD: The state government seems to have finally woken up to filling vacancies at grant-in-aid colleges ahead of the elections. At present, 150 posts of principals, 1,000 posts of faculty members and 3,000 posts of administrative staffers are vacant at grant-in-aid colleges in the state. This is the first time ever that the government has promised to fill such a large number of vacancies by June 15.

 Representatives of Gujarat State Teachers Association, Gujarat State Principals Association, Gujarat State Administrative Staffers Association and   held a meeting with state education minister,   on Saturday. There are 356 grant-in-aid colleges in the state.
 
 Issues such as choice-based credit system and consequent poor quality of education due to the lack of staff, were discussed with the education minister. Representatives also batted for reinstating the yearly system, as the semester system is doing no good. They also recommended that a Chintan Shibir be held to address issues related to education.
 
 Jayvantsinh Sarvaiyya, president of the principals association said, “The government appears to be positive about the appointments. We have been assured that no-objection certificates (NOCs) for appointment of principals across 110 colleges will be immediately provided. The minister also assured us that other issues related to education will be addressed.”
 
 Gujarat State Administrative Staffers Association president   said, “There are around 3,000 vacancies at colleges in administrative positions. With the lack of staff, it is difficult for educational institutes to function. The government has assured us it will provide NOCs for appointments of 1,500 staffers.” Some five years ago, the semester system was implemented across the state. The absence of adequate staff members and lack of time to complete the syllabus, in addition to multiple examinations in a year, exerts extreme pressure on students. Experts and association representatives are of the opinion that the system should be abolished at the earliest, thus reinstating the old system, else it will cause chaos in the education system.
 
