Madurai: Over a lakh devotees are expected to throng Sri Ramanathaswamy shrine in Ramanathapuram ahead of ‘Thai’ Amavasai (new moon day) on Friday unmindful of the poor amenities that await them. Non-availability of drinking water and toilets, lack of proper dress changing facilities as well as fleecing in the name of darshan are the major challenges that devotees face.

 Amavasai is the day when Hindus pay homage to their ancestors. Of the twelve Amavasais a year, the one that falls in three Tamil months ‘Thai’ (January and February,) ‘Aadi’ (July and August) and ‘Purattasi’ (September and October) are considered to be auspicious. Devotees from many parts of the country throng Rameswaram temple and, as part of their rituals, take a holy dip in the sea which is seen as ‘Agni’ Theertham. Thereafter, they take bath in 22 holy wells situated inside the temple. 
 
 However, many complain that there are no adequate facilities for devotees at the temple despite the significance of the rituals and the sheer number of people who turn up for the events. “It is very difficult for women and aged people to enter into sea shore near the temple to pay homage (tharpanam) because of the wall constructed there. Besides, there is no proper place for women to change dress,” B Amsavalli (54), a widow from Chennai, said. 
 
 Many devotees complained that there was no proper drinking water or toilet facilities either. With devotees forced to go for bottled water, shops made a killing from it. Parking was another major issue for tourists as the parking lot was 2 kms away from the bus stand. “If it is set up either near the bus terminal or temple, it will be useful for the aged,” said R Guna from Cuddalore. 
 
 Vishwa Hindu Parishad (Madurai) president M Chandrasekaran alleged that above all, money played a vital role in both swamy darshan as well as for taking bath in the holy wells (theertham)in the temple. 
 
 The temple authority collected Rs 25 per head for bathing in the 22 theerthams – Mahalakshmi, Savithri, Gayathri, Saraswathi, Sedhumadhava, Gandhamadhava, Kavatcha, Gavaya, Nala, Neela, Sanku, Sakkara, Brahmmahathi Vimocha, Soorya, Chandra, Ganga, Yamuma, Gaya, Siva, Sathyamirtha, Sarva and Kodi theerthams. 
 
 “But those who pay the legal fee are not properly treated. They are made to wait in wells and a little quantum of water is sprinkled on them. However, those brought to the wells unauthorisedly by a group of men after collecting Rs 100 per head get better treatment. They are taken to every well and well attended there,” Chandrasekaran claimed and said that the illegal activity was very apparent. 
 
 They urged the temple and Rameswaram municipal authorities to ensure proper facilities inside and outside the temple premises on Friday. 
 
 
