Actress  , who recently appeared in a press meet for the promotion of her film Vizhithiru along with the team, was literally in the eye of the storm, after she forgot to ascribe T Rajendar’s name, while addressing people who had gathered. What followed was a flurry of insulting remarks from someone, whom everyone calls ‘veteran’, and his criticism snowballed into unacceptable way of behaviour.

 When Sai Dhanshika apologised for the same and said that she respects him with all her heart, and doesn’t think a mere mention of his name in front of the mike was proof of the adoration and respect she has of him.   was in mood to think that ‘to err is human’ enough, and looked like he totally forgot the saying ‘to forgive is divine’, leaving the young actress in tears. What was even more pitiable was that the dais was filled with men, who raised no hue and cry over the issue, and actors such as Krishna and Vidharth were conveniently giggling, making it totally a cringeworthy moment. 
 
 Soon after the video was out, support started pouring in for the actress from all over. The actress herself penned down a post, that was precise enough about how the world treats lone women in general. She posted, "I'm really obliged to the no of people for showing their care and love for me, for what happened to me. But it is a pity, this is state of lone women (sic)."
 
 
 
 Actor Vishal earned complete respect from netizens when he came out in support of her, and also accused actors Krishna and Vidharth for not standing with her, with the hashtag #StandUpWithDhanshika. 
 
 Below is the post:-
 
 
 
 RJ Balaji also aired his concern regarding the same. Now, actress Kaniha has expressed resentment for the treatment meted out to Sai Dhanshika. 
 
 Here goes the post :-
 
 
 
 It is ironical that at a time when we call ourselves ‘progressive’, we can’t take it that an actress like Kangana stands tall and expresses her opinion about nepotism, and venture out to make fun of her at awards functions or try to pull down a woman like Dhanshika, who has proved her mettle and shared the screen with actor  , on a platform filled with chauvinistic men. 
 
 Coming back to Dhanshika, all one has to say is nothing can deter your spirit or degrade you. More power to you, girl! 
 
 She will next be seen delivering a power-packed performance in Solo, that has   in one of the central characters. 
 
 
 
