PANAJI: He was an intergral part of India's long-drawn preparation for the Fifa  . But, sadly,   will be watching his team's moment of reckoning -taking on the US in the opener in Delhi on October 6 -from the stands.

 The gifted defender, a regular in the side under former German coach Nicolai Adam of Germany and now, under Portuguese  , was ruled out after picking up a red card against Iran in the AFC U-16 Championship in Goa last year.
 
 India had to win that match to stay in the tournament but lost 0-3 to the Asian giants. Boris needlessly picked up a booking for kicking out at the goalkeeper while he was down and another yellow card for a reckless challenge that brooked an expulsion. “This is the first time ever the World Cup is being played in India and I feel bad to miss the first match.At the time I received the red card for the Iran match, I didn't know its consequences and that I would miss the first match of the World Cup. I came to know about it only after the game and felt miserable,” said Boris, one eight Manipuri's in the squad of 21 chasing their dreams.
 
 Having already made over 25 appearances for India, Boris is eager to represent the country on the world stage and must wait till October 9 when India play Colombia in the second match. Another challenge awaits in the form of twice champions Ghana three days later.
 
 Boris developed a love for the game in school, playing with a tennis ball. Belonging to a middle-class family from Imphal, Boris' parents wanted him to focus on studies and take up engineering as a career. His parents initially ran a grocery store but after it shut down, his father was forced to work on daily wages.His father made time to take Boris to practise and the boys' diligence has made him a speedy wing-back.
 
 “I am working very hard right now and so is everyone in the team.The coach tells us what is to be done to improve ourselves and we do it. He has given us a lot of confidence since taking charge and I hope for the best in the tournament. The team is working very hard to prove ourselves in the tournament,” said Boris.
 
 At one stage in his life, the lad from Imphal had to choose between studies and football -a decision that must gladden his heart, at least at this point in time.
 
 
