MUMBAI: The   27  , who had gone to   last month for Umrah, have not returned to India as per schedule. The pilgrims, all from Kolkata, took a flight from Mumbai airport, but went missing in  . 

 The Maharashtra anti-terrorism squad (ATS) is probing their disappearance. “We are collecting information about their departure and arrival. Police are in touch with the authorities concerned,”   chief Atulchandra Kulkarni told TOI. 
 
 A   tour operator had approached the ATS after the pilgrims, who left for Umrah early in February, did not reach their hotel in Saudi Arabia. Worried over the disappearance of many Indians on foreign soil, the ATS is probing the issue. “We have given all information to the ATS, National Investigation Agency (NIA) and Union home ministry. We have been told not to share information with anyone,” the tour operator’s office said. The   told ATS he received a call from the Kolkata agent, Biswas, for helping him with visa arrangements. Later, Biswas informed him that the 27 did not reach the hotel where rooms were booked. Mumbai travel agents generally help their counterparts in other cities for visas for a commission. Passport details of the pilgrims have been collected and are being shared with other agencies. 
 
 An ATS officer said sometimes those who go to Saudi Arabia stay with friends and relatives. “However, these pilgrims did not even reach the hotel,” he said. The Kolkata agent’s phone was unreachable, said an officer. The home ministry is likely to put the missing persons’ passport details on the look out circular (LOC) notice at all airports in the country. When an LOC is issued against a person, s/he can be detained when trying to leave India or land here. 
 
 Two youth, who went to Baghdad on a pilgrimage, had also gone missing. They were part of a group from Mumbai taken by another Dongri agent. The ATS found their homes in Raipur were locked and the families had disappeared. The ATS suspects they went to join the proscribed   (IS). 
 
 A similar case was registered after four Kalyan youth disappeared on reaching Iraq in 2014. They had allegedly joined the IS. One of them, Areeb Majeed, was jailed on his return in November 2014. The four had gone to Baghdad through another Dongri agent.
 
