NAGPUR: School management and teacher associations are definitely not smiling for the ‘selfie’ the education department has mandated. The trendy feature, that’s part of the state government’s  , is being slammed by schools because they say it’s a ‘waste of time’. 

 Ravindra Fadnavis, a senior academician said, “What is the utility of the selfie feature? What purpose is it serving? As it is we are taking attendance in the midday meals scheme and through the tradition methods, so this selfie concept is without any logic.” Others say the time consuming activity is detrimental to students. S Prabhurama, principal of   said, “Selfie and attendance which takes up a good 15 minutes because there are many senior teachers who are yet to get used to Android mobiles. Also not many of them have it which means they’ll have to purchase it. The valuable time could have been better used for teaching kids.” Another senior principal said taking selfie is contradicting rules laid down by the education department. Jaspal Singh, principal of   said, “Teachers were never allowed to take mobile phones in classrooms, but now that rule is meaningless. Also in classrooms we always tell kids that mobile phones are a distraction and things like selfies are unproductive. But now the first thing kids see after coming to school is their teachers taking a selfie.”
 
 Another principal said the selfie has to be uploaded to state server and that raises privacy concerns. “Majority of the teachers are female and quite a few have a conservative mindset. Now their photos will float around in the server and can be misused by people with bad intentions,” he said. TOI has learnt that the selfie feature will be done away with by next month, something which schools welcome. A principal said, “That will be the smartest thing the education department will be doing. Their focus should be on increasing academic quality and not on such frivolous things.”
 
 Fadnavis said, “Apart from this the government is also pushing for digital classrooms at every institute but who will bear the cost? There has to be some logic behind policies being implemented but unfortunately here we see things being done which seem to be the complete opposite. The cost of making a classroom digital is high and the government wants us to seek funds from the society rather than funding it themselves.” 
 
 
