GORAKHPUR:   and SP leader   on Saturday responded to   chief Amit Shah's 'KASAB' acronym, saying that 'Ka' stands for computer and 'Sa' for smartphone. 

 "BJP is teaching us 'ka se Kasab' and your Akhilesh Bhaiya says 'ka se' computer and 'sa se' smartphone, with which you could get information about government schemes and policies and benefit. We'll give 35% reservation to women and pregnant women would get foodgrain delivered at their door step. If SP is voted back to power, we would do away with the age-limit for women in third and fourth category government jobs," Dimple, who's also chief minister Akhilesh Yadav's wife, said at a public meet in Belouha Bazaar in Bansi of Siddharthanagar
 
 "BJP is using foul language and only making huge promises. We have done development work and I've come here with an appeal from your Akhilesh Bhaiya that after coming again to power, SP will bring development to villages and also a medical college in Siddharth Nagar. We are already giving pension to 55 lakh women," Dimple said.
 
 Taking a dig at BJP poll promise of distributing five crore gas connections, she said the ruling party would give pressure cookers for every gas stove bought by the people.
 
 The SP leader said the while the nation was listening to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's 'Mann ki baat' for the last three years, no one realised how the price of LPG cylinders went up. "BJP says it will give away five crore gas connections. We will be very happy if you get those, but one thing is certain; you will need to buy a gas stove yourself. When that time comes, we will give pressure cookers for each house," she added.
 
 Taking a jibe at Modi, Dimple said, "We have taken oath for development and the MP of Kashi has not taken an oath in Ganga Maiya's name so far. We have provided 24-hour electricity supply in Varanasi. I feel sad that now even electricity has become Hindu and Muslim."
 
 Criticizing PM's decision of demonetization, Dimple said, "The decision of demonetization shattered the economy of the country. How many were punished and how much black money was recovered, BJP has not given answer to any of these questions so far. Before election, BJP used to claim bringing black money from outside India, public believed and voted for it. But do you know how much black money came to India?"
 
 Shah had used 'KASAB' acronym to describe Congress, SP and BSP at a rally in Chauri Chaura on February 22.
 
