MUMBAI: Your wait to watch the cute little   that arrived in the city almost eight months ago will end shortly. 

 Last July, the eight penguins were brought to the   from COEX Aquarium in Seoul, South Korea. But barely three months later, a female penguin passed away following an illness. 
 
 The seven penguins, Olive, Molt, Bubble, Donald, Daisy, Popeye and Flipper, were moved early on Monday into the large exhibit area from where public viewing will take place probably in a fortnight. “Around 6am, the birds were removed from the quarantine area, where they have been housed since July 2016, when they were brought to Mumbai. They were taken in cages to the swanky exhibit, which has been specially designed for the birds,” said a zoo official. Three out of the seven penguins took long time to come out of the water and enter the cages when they were in the quarantine area. 
 
 Officials said they were closely monitoring the penguins since they were moved. There are two keepers and four doctors round-the-clock to monitor the birds. “They were very playful since morning and were moving from one end of the exhibit to another. In fact, they are exploring each and every corner of the exhibit area. We want to keep a watch to see which part of the exhibit they like the most. In fact, we skipped their morning feed so that they would voluntarily come out of the water for their afternoon feed,” said a doctor monitoring the birds. The birds are fed a variety of fish like Bombay Duck, sardines and eels as a part of their meals. Each bird eats around 800gm of fish. 
 
 It is likely to take a fortnight for the birds to be put out on public viewing. The enclosure within the quarantine centre can accommodate 20 Humboldt penguins. It has been designed so that when the penguins breed, the nestlings can also be accommodated there. The interpretation centre within which the penguins are to be exhibited is spread over nearly 18,000 sq feet and will have a 400 sq foot pool. It also has a kitchen and feeding area.
 
 
