MADURAI: While the majority of students and youths continued their   demanding lift on the  , a section of the   as well as  . After a train was blocked on the Vaigai bridge on Thursday, the protesters brought traffic to a standstill in many parts of Madurai. 

 Many buses enroute to southern districts - Ramanathapuram, Tuticorin, Virudhunagar, Tirunelveli and Kanyakumari - stopped services en route owing to blocks on the highway. Vehicular movement on Theni-Madurai road came to a complete standstill due to protests at many places.
 
 Thousands of passengers were stranded on roadsides and went hungry as buses stopped owing to the blocks. With most shops closed, they could not find food in nearby areas. "I am a diabetic patient. I could not eat lunch as the bus which started from Mattuthavani bus terminal at 10am was stopped on the ring road within 15 minutes. I have been waiting here for five hours," said Y Kumuthavalli, a passenger bound to Tuticorin.
 
 There was overwhelming response for the bandh by traders and retailers body. Almost all the shops, hotels, cinema halls, showrooms and commercial complexes were found closed. They were partly open only after 6pm.
 
 All the auto rickshaws and mini buses stayed off the road supporting the protest. While many buses too stayed off the road, responding to the call given by the labours union, some were forced to stop. Many Ayyappa devotees travelling through Madurai were also stranded along with tourists - both domestic and foreign. Christina, a German national touring Madurai, said, "Although all the shops are closed, we are not affected much since we have planned the day only for temple visits," she said.
 
 While Madurai is cut off from the railway network, the protests which hit the roads hindered air passengers from reaching Madurai airport. Airport director V V Rao said Madurai airport handles 15 flights to and forth in a day. All the flights were operated. While flights coming to Madurai came with good seat occupancy, many flights departed with many unfilled seats as the passengers could not reach on time due to protests.
 
 Madurai district superintendent of police Vijayendra S Bidari said, "Roads leading to Madurai airport remained blocked due to continuing protests. Passengers who are departing from Madurai airport are requested to contact their respective airlines before reaching the airport. Airlines have also been suitably advised to devise reimbursement or rescheduling strategies to assist the passengers."
 
 The crowd at Alanganallur and Tamukkam ground swelled on Friday with participation of women, elderly persons, children and many took part along with family members. Although they cheered about the developments of passing an ordinance by the state government, they were determined to carry out the protest until jallikattu is conducted throughout the state. "We will not go home without seeing the bulls rushing out from the vadivasal in Alanganallur," said M Janani, a protester.
 
 Thomas Zachari and his friend Chris from London, who had come to Madurai to witness pongal celebrations, took part in jallikattu protests along with students and youths in Tamukkam. They support jallikattu because, according to them, it is a tradition of Tamils but also there is no cruelty is meted out on the bulls in the sport.
 
 Those who could not join the protest at the main areas came together in residential area and registered the protest. At   road, a group conducted rooster fight for a short while using four roosters. In between the protests traditional sports including silambam was performed by youngsters.
 
