PUNE: The health officials on Wednesday confirmed that leptospirosis caused the death of the 74-year-old Warje man at   hospital last week.

 State surveillance officer Pradip Awate said, “The urine sample of the patient had tested positive for leptospira bacteria at B J Medical College attached   hospital’s laboratory, which is the referral lab for leptospirosis in Maharashtra. The last reported death due to the disease in Pune city was recorded three years ago at Sassoon hospital.”
 
 TOI had reported the death in its July 3, 2017 edition, about which health officials had no clue.
 
 Awate said, “We have already initiated the surveillance to find out if there are any more cases of the diseases in the surrounding areas where the man resided in Warje. The investigation is currently under way.”
 
 Another health official said, “Leptospirosis is grossly under-reported mainly due to lack of awareness about the disease among medical professionals and difficulties in laboratory diagnosis of the disease.”
 
 Leptospirosis is caused when people come into contact with water contaminated by animal urine. The bacteria are carried by various domestic and wild animals such as rats, cows and dogs.
 
 Preventive healthcare specialist   said, “The widest spreading among the bunch of infections in the rainy season is leptospirosis. Symptoms can occur about two days to four weeks after the exposure to the bacteria and they may appear phase-wise.”
 
 Naikwadi said, “If not treated on time, it may not resolve for several months, and some patients may develop long-term complications such as kidney and lung problems. Further complications may result in death. However, the death rate due to this disease is about 1%-5%.”
 
 Maharashtra has recorded a total of 58 cases of leptospirosis mainly in the state’s Konkan belt and three confirmed deaths in Raigad, Kolhapur and Pune.
 
 The senior citizen from Warje, who died of leptospirosis-induced complications on July 2, had travelled to Konkan two weeks before the onset of the illness.
 
