AHMEDABAD: Even as three   in Ahmedabad were confirmed by the World Health Organization (WHO) on May 26, the civic body, despite claiming prompt and extensive surveillance, is yet to begin widespread testing as was done in January and February, when samples of patients showing fever-like symptoms were sent for Zika virus confirmation tests. 

 AMC officials claimed that blood samples from urban health centres run by the civic body are yet to be sent to the laboratory at BJ Medical for Zika tests. Officials, however, confirmed that AMC has shot off letters to private general practitioners and gynaecologists, to report any fever cases involving pregnant women.
 
  Senior officials of the health department of Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) confirmed that letters were issued to urban health centres last Friday, to send blood samples of pregnant women with a history of fever for Zika tests.
 
 The Zika virus is spreads by Aedes aegypti mosquitoes, whose densities were recently measured by AMC entomologists. The mosquito density (number of mosquitoes per room) of Aedes aegypti is particularly high in seven wards. These are Dariapur (2.5), Isanpur (2.25), Sarkhej (1.75), Sardarnagar (1.5), Jamalpur (1.5), Chandlodia (1.25) and Kubernagar (1.25). Aedes aegypti density is 0.75 in Stadium ward, where one Zika infection was reported earlier. 
 
 According to AMC data, some 596 cases of Aedes aegypti-borne infections (dengue and chikungunya) were reported in these eight wards in 2016 at civic body-run hospitals alone. Therefore, the actual picture of the total number of cases in the city will be significantly higher.
 
 Confirming this,  , the in-charge medical officer of AMC’s health department, said, “We asked civic body-run hospitals like VS, LG and Shardaben to begin identifying patients with a fever history and suspected Zika-like symptoms. We are not sure whether these hospitals have begun sending samples for Zika tests to the laboratory at  .”
 
 It is shocking that two months after the WHO confirmed cases of Zika infections among residents of Bapunagar and Stadium areas, civic authorities have turned a blind eye to surveillance.
 
 While the civic authorities are yet to begin testing for Zika, AMC and the state health department had promised to carry out extensive surveillance by testing more samples of patients with fever and to curb  
 
