LUCKNOW: Strike of   completed four consecutive days on Tuesday and will continue. At the cost of disappointing foodies, meat sellers are sticking to their memorandum of demands and continuing on strike since the crackdown on   and  . Associations have decided to continue with the   in Lucknow and other cities till their licence is issued.

 After the UP government move to close down unlicensed slaughter houses and meat shops. After shutting down the unlicensed slaughterhouses, police mounted pressure on meat vendors to shut shop. On Wednesday, the All India Janiat-ul Quresh association called statewide strike and after two days sellers of mutton and chicken also joined hands and went on strike. Now, after four days have passed, the shops are still closed. This in turn has forced prominent eateries like Tunday, Raheem, Mubeen, Indrees, Al-Zaiqa, Alamgeer and other locals to remain closed too.
 
 Though it was Tuesday, a day before the nine-day Navaratra festival, many foodies were seen in old Lucknow asking about when Tunday and Raheem would reopen. 
 
 When TOI asked about the strike, All India Jamiat-ul Quresh Association state president Mohammad Yusuf Qureshi said the strike will continue till licence is handed over to butchers by the municipal corporation. Likewise, president of Meat-Murga Vyapari Kalyan Samiti UP Iqbal Qureshi has said, the lose of closure is unbearable, but we are forced to shut down our shops and will be continued, whereas, Lucknow Murga-Mandi Samiti president Sanjay Saxena has said there is no law for broilers and chicken sellers, even after all these guidelines, police officials have strictly asked us to close down the shops, so we are on strike.
 
 Speaking to TOI, people said government must negotiate with their demands, because it is not butchers fault and LMC is seeking for soft corner. Whereas many other who used to eat meat daily, had said it is irresponsible of administration not to come up with a solution and it is putting people to discomfort.
 
 First time visitor to Lucknow, Raman Saluja was seen clicking photos of closed shutters on his cell phone. He told TOI that all he had heard about Lucknow was its food, monuments and culture. But for the past two days, not a single legendary food shop was found open, he rued and that he was going to tweet to the CM . “This way, the Nawabi city will lose its the essence,” said Raman.
 
 Similary, Sahil Ansari who lives in Saudi Arabia and is visiting the city said, “I travelled across the country but Lucknow is my favourite because of its food and now I am missing all the buffalo meat delicacies,” said Sahil.
 
 “My area is now more like Jankipuram or Aliganj, with no old eateries open and families being forced to eat grains and vegetables and though I am non-vegetarian, I am ordering my meals from multi national food chains,” complained Laeeq Ahmad.
 
