NEW DELHI: With some of the top guns missing from action, young shooters will be carrying Indian hopes in the   which will begin in the Capital on Friday .

 India's poor show in  , where the shooters drew a blank, prompted the   ( ) to discard some established names while making the changes looking at the future.The team for the World Cup was selected on the basis of performance in the   which was held in Pune in December last year.
 
 Though the hosts are not expected to come up with a rich medal haul, the likes of  , Sanjeev Rajput, Chain Singh, Kynan Chenai, Heena Sidhu and Haveen Srao are expected to keep the Indian flag flying at the prestigious event.
 
 On first day of the competition, India will be without the experienced Abhinav Bindra -who has retired -and Gagan Narang in 10m air rifle. Three rookie shooters led by Satyendra Singh will be seeking glory at the Karni Singh   Ranges.
 
 The selectors chose to ignore Narang, putting their faith in young shooters for the big event.Apart from the 22-year-old Satyendra, the other Indians who will be in action in the 10m air rifle event are 27-year-old Ravi Kumar and 20-year-old Deepak Kumar.
 
 With not much experience of competing at the highest level, these three Indians might find it difficult to finish on the podium considering they will be competing against the likes of Hungary's Peter Sidi, a former world champion, world No. 8 Hossein Bagheri of Iran and world No. 9 Sergey Richter Israel -both multiple medal winners at World Cups.
 
 The 10m air rifle event has also lost some sheen due to the absence of all three Rio Olympic medallists --Italian Niccolo Campriani (gold), Ukraine's Serhiy Kulish (silver) and Russia's bronze medallist Vladimir Maslennikov.Bindra had finished fourth in Rio, missing his second Olympic medal by a very narrow margin.
 
 The day's competition will start with 10m women's air rifle event where India will be represented by Pooja Ghatkar, Meghana Sajjanar and Vinita Bhardwaj.The inexperienced Indian trio was picked by the NRAI ahead of the established names like Apurvi Chandela and Ayonika Paul, both of whom had a poor outing at the Rio Olympics.
 
 India's Seema Tomar will be India's most experienced shooter in women's trap. The 2014 Asian Championship gold medallist will be given company by two inexperienced shooters in event -16-year-old Rajeshwari Kumari and 17-year-old Manisha Keer.
 
 
