PANAJI: The ministry of   has decided to step up the Indian Navy’s presence in Goa based on a development plan for the next five years, sources in the ministry said. The defence ministry has identified 33,000 sqm land and asked   to prepare a detailed project report to develop special berths for the   and   at Vasco bay.

 According to sources, the five-year project proposal includes construction of an elevated corridor to the naval vessel berths and a rail track if found feasible.
 
 The cost for the mega project will be borne by the defence ministry said sources but the project, which was supposed to have been initiated early this year has been delayed as the ministry failed to release funds for the project.
 
 When contacted,   officials confirmed that the proposal had been received, but stated that the project was still in the ideation phase. “They have requested us to design special berths for warships and we are still working on its feasibility. It is still an idea, but in-principle, the port is also in agreement with the defence ministry,” MPT chairman I Jeyakumar said.
 
 The projects have been cleared by the board of trustees of the port of Mormugao and the Union ministry of shipping.
 
 According to defence ministry officials, the ministry has suggested capital dredging of the berth and the channel, hinting that the ministry headed by Parrikar was keen on creating berthing facilities for larger warships.
 
 An   official pointed out the Navy could barely manage to dock the 226-metre long aircraft carrier INS Viraat which has a displacement of 28,700 ton in Goa. India’s latest aircraft carrier INS Vikramaditya is 273-metre long and has a displacement of 45,400 ton.
 
 MPT will undertake engineering studies and come up with the preliminary conceptual design of the berths, including layout of naval structures, defence security facilities and other project facilities.
 
 “Once the defence ministry gives the official confirmation for funding the project, the feasibility will be completed and based on the report, the environmental impact assessment (EIA) report will be done and then we will hold a public hearing,” Jeyakumar said.
 
 The letter of agreement was meant to be inked in December, but with the ministry of defence dragging its feet in releasing the funds, the project has been delayed, sources said.
 
 
