NEW DELHI: The   on Monday frowned upon the scheme of judges selecting judges for other posts and struck down a Punjab & Haryana high court verdict directing the two states and the Union Territory of Chandigarh to appoint only retired HC judges as head of child rights commissions. 

 Accepting the pleas of Punjab & Haryana that it was a case of judicial overreach, a bench of Chief Justice   and Justice DY Chandrachud quashed the HC order. "We find justification in the arguments and set aside the direction that only judge of HC can be chairperson of Commission for Protection of Child Rights."
 
 The bench also accepted the submission by the states that section 17 of the 2005 Act provided that a chairperson should be a person of eminence and must have done outstanding work to promote welfare of children. "There was no justification for the HC to direct that the chairperson should be a judge of the high court," the states said.
 
  had passed the Commission for Protection of Child Rights (CPCR) Act in 2005 for establishment of national and state commissions to ensure enforcement of various rights guaranteed to children under the Constitution and other laws, including the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act;   (Prohibition an Regulation) Act, 1986;   and Compulsory Education (RTE) Act, 2009; and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012.
 
 Acting on a PIL in case of Punjab and Chandigarh and suo motu in case of Haryana, an HC bench headed by then chief justice A K Sikri (now a judge of the SC) had in April 2013 objected to Haryana's decision to constitute state CPCR under chairmanship of the minister in-charge of the department.
 
  The HC had said section 13 of CPCR Act encompasses a wide range of powers, many of which were akin to judicial powers. "In order to discharge such functions, the chairperson needs to have legal expertise, judicial wisdom and experience in higher judicial echelons. The functions are clearly quasi-judicial in nature," the bench had said. "We direct that the chairperson should be a person who has been judge of the high court," it had further said. 
 
 
