NEW DELHI: Hours before the Indian team conquered Australia to retain its supremacy in Test cricket, a battle was fought through emails within the   over who had the right to hand out special payments to the players for their terrific performance during a long, energy-sapping season.

 In anticipation of the win on Tuesday, BCCI CEO   ­ having reached an agreement with the committee of administrators (CoA) on Monday night ­ wrote an email to all the office-bearers about the plan to reward the Indian cricketers individually ­ along with the chief coach and support staff ­ for all the hard work they had put in during the season.
 
 “The members of the CoA have already expressed their support to this. I would request everyone's concurrence to the proposal,” Johri wrote, while proposing Rs 50 lakh be given to every Indian player, Rs 25 lakh to the coach and Rs 15 lakh each to the support staff.
 
 This triggered a war of words between BCCI treasurer   and Johri. Chaudhary's contention was that the money can't be disbursed at the cost of day-to-day affairs of the board.
 
 “The amount to be paid ought to be decided by the board in its forthcoming general meeting as we are talking about an outgo of at least about Rs 8 crore. It is not something that relates to day to day affairs of the board,” Chaudhry wrote to the CoA and Johri on the same night, while acknowledging that he “welcomed and fully endorsed BCCI's plan to reward the team.”
 
 After India duly wrapped up the Test, Johri replied to Chaudhary's barb. “The practice for similar decisions has not been to take prior approval of the general body. Further, waiting for the AGM SGM to be convened before making such an announcement would not be appropriate given that the cricket season ends today,” Johri wrote.
 
 He added: “Since there is consensus that the team deserves to be rewarded and no revised amounts have been suggested, the COA is proceeding to make the announcement as proposed.”
 
 Less than an hour later, Chaudhary changed his tone: “I explained my position to you when we spoke a little while back... I was absolutely clear in my earlier email as well about my personal view that the team ought to be awarded and there are no two ways about that as far as I am concerned.”
 
 The treasurer also agreed that the board had taken a similar decision in the past without consulting the working committee. However, he pointed out that those decisions were taken by the elected officials who “enjoyed complete support of BCCI.”
 
