NEW DELHI: Home minister   Singh’s son   was among several senior members’ children and family members named for the UP assembly polls as   released another list of 155 candidates soon after Samajwadi Party and Congress announced their alliance for the elections scheduled from February 11to March 8. Pankaj will contest from Noida. 

 Sitting Noida MLA Vimla Botham was denied the ticket to pave the way for Pankaj, who has been striving to make his electoral debut for quite some time as he had tried to contest the bypolls from Gautam Budh Nagar after sitting MLA Mahesh Sharma was elected to   in 2014. Grandson of former PM Lal Bahadur Shastri, Sidharth Nath Singh, will contest from Allahabad West. 
 
 Rita Bahuguna, who was UP Congress chief before she joined BJP, will be the saffron nominee from Lucknow Cantonment. The saffron party has so far declared 304 out of 403 seats as it had announced the first list of 149 on January 16. The remaining candidates, mostly from eastern UP divisions of Varanasi, Gorakhpur and Azamgarh, will be announced on Thursday. Daughter of Kairana MP Hukum Singh, Mriganka Singh, is the party nominee from Kairana whereas senior BJP leader Lalji Tandon’s son Gopal has been re-fielded from Lucknow West. Premlata Katiyar’s daughter Neelima will make her electoral debut from Kalyanpur in Kanpur. Premlata is a senior party leader from the Kanpur region. 
 
 Gonda MP Brijbhushan Singh’s son Prateek Bhushan will take the electoral battlefield from Gonda assembly segment. Senior Congress leader Sanjay Singh’s estranged wife Garima Singh will be the saffron party candidate from Amethi in a bid to consolidate the work of Union minister Smriti Irani, who had given a tough fight to Congress vicepresident Rahul Gandhi in the 2014 Lok Sabha polls. Kalyan Singh’s role in candidate selection was reflected once again as he managed to get Guddu Pandit dropped from Dibai in Bulandshahr district and Anita Rajput is now the BJP candidate. Pandit had deserted SP and voted for the BJP candidate during the recent RS polls. He was assured of BJP nomination but   reportedly vetoed it as Pandit had defeated Singh’s son Rajvir Singh from Dibai twice in the past.
 
