GURUGRAM: The battle lines have been drawn between two women councillors vying for the mayor’s post, with each enjoying the backing of a   heavyweight.

 Soon after reaching the majority mark, Gurgaon MP Rao Inderjit declared that the mayor’s post would go to someone who had contested the poll on the BJP symbol, apparently extending his support to Madhu Azad who won the post of councillor from ward 7.
 
 Madhu Azad has, in fact, been the frontrunner even before the results were declared on Sunday night, wherein the BJP won 14 out of the 35 seats.
 
 “In my view, someone who has won on the party symbol, should be the mayor. The aim will be to elect the   through consensus but if push comes to shove, we will go for an election. A decision in this regard will be taken soon by the party,” Inderjit told TOI.
 
 The mayor’s post is reserved for a women candidate from the SC category.
 
 The rival camp of Rao Narbir Singh, however, has thrown its weight behind Sheetal Bagri, who won the poll from the ward 10 and comes from the SC category, like Azad.
 
 The one thing that may be working against Bagri is the fact that she did not contest on the party symbol. The party subcommittee, overseeing the distribution, denied her a ticket, prompting her to contest the poll as an independent.
 
 Party insiders, however, claimed that Azad was unlikely to bag the post through consensus and, in all probability, would have to face another election to capture the throne.
 
 “Rao Inderjit has the support of 10 councillors while Rao Narbir has the support of 12. As the party cannot issue a whip and ask all its councillors to vote for a particular candidate in the mayoral election, it will mean that whoever has the numbers will be in a position to get his candidate elected as the next mayor. Moreover, the anti-defection clause will not be applicable in this case,” said a party leader, requesting anonymity.
 
 Sources said that a meeting would be held on October 8 to decide the next mayor and if need be, an election would be held.
 
