BENGALURU: Slamming West Bengal chief minister   for spreading canards about him in connection with the multi- crore ponzi scams. Tripura chief minister   on Tuesday said the allegations against him smacked of `political narrowness'.

 Speaking to reporters here in Bengaluru, a visibly-irked Sarkar said "Do not try to equate me with Mamata Banerjee. The allegations are completely false. Mine is an open book and I have nothing to hide." 
 
 Sarkar was reacting to the comments made the by   (TMC) leaders, who had charged his government with having colluded with Rose Valley Group chairman Gautam Kundu, who was arrested by the   (CBI) for reportedly mobilising around Rs 17,000 crore through various illegal money collection schemes. Banerjee and her partymen had alleged that Tripura was the epicentre of the chit fund scam but the CBI only arrested two   MPs -- Tapas Pal and Sudip Banopadhyay -- from West Bengal. The TMC asked Prime Minister Modi: "Why were TMC MPs being hounded by the CBI while the Sarkar government remained untouched despite the latter literally acting as brand ambassadors for Rose Valley? Isn't this vindictive attitude (of Modi) and vendetta politics (practised by him)?" 
 
 However, Sarkar retorted: "She (Banerjee) is saying this to save her skin in the Saradha (another chit fund scam), Narada (a sting operation that accused TMC leaders of accepting bribe) and Rose Valley issues." 
 
 Sarkar also spiked allegations that his government had reached a tacit agreement with the BJP, which is trying to make inroads into Tripura. He said: "BJP is a national political party and they will try to enter the state. Look at the way they captured power in Arunachal Pradesh, that was wrong. The BJP has money power, muscle power and media power. But we are confident that the people of Tripura will realise what the BJP is doing. They (BJP) cannot mislead people for years together, the best alternative to the BJP and the   is the Left and democratic forces."
 
 Sarkar also took a dig at the Modi government for not respecting the states. "Our PM has been speaking about cooperative federalism, I do not know what it means. He disbanded Planning Commission, no meetings of the Development Council of India have been held and the lone Inter State Council meeting held so far has had no transaction finalised -- are these signs of cooperative federalism?" Maintaining that federalism was at stake in the current political system, Sarkar warned: "This one party show is a bad thing. We have ideological and political differences (with the BJP government at the Centre), but there is a need for exchange of opinions and experiences. But what is happening is nothing but being authoritarian." 
 
 
