TRICHY: Despite warning from authorities and crackdowns,   below 50 micron continue to be available and used widespread in the city. The sale of plastics below 50 microns is banned under the Plastic Waste (Management & Handling) Rules and the civic body has been acting against shops selling such banned plastics. But they continue to resurface in the absence of an effective alternative. 

 Over 650 kgs of plastics were seized from   alone from about 150 shops when   were carried out a few days ago. An amount of Rs 1,550 was collected as fine from the violators. With hardly any mechanism to curb its availability in the market, a majority of the users were small grocery shops and eateries. The plastics included tea cups, plastic pouches to pack liquid food and foils to wrap food items. 
 
 Stopping the practice of collecting unsegregated waste, the civic body had recently started collecting wet waste separately while Wednesdays were set apart for plastics and dry waste collection. Though the idea was to segregate wet from dry plastic waste, it has been found that people dumped wet waste wrapped in plastic during door-to-door waste collection by civic body workers. 
 
 Plastic pouches and carry bags with leftover liquid and solid food items respectively are predominantly found mixed with wet waste while corporation workers collect waste from household and commercial establishments. While it cannot be considered wet waste, it can neither be considered dry for having leftover food with added stench. Many of the restaurants have started using plastics boxes above 50 microns and silver foils to pack liquid food items recently. 
 
 “Going for plastic boxes and silver foils is not possible for us as it is a costly affair,” said an eatery owner in Woraiyur, S Bala,. “We have no other option but to use plastic pouches as they are convenient, easily available and cheaper. Though we understand the problem, unless we are provided with an alternative, we cannot stop its usage,” he said. While a few residents are slowly opting to cotton bags thanks to the door-to-door campaign by   on ethical shopping practices the message is yet to reach a wider population. 
 
