Vadodara: RC Shah, who was arrested along with architect Chirag Patel by anti-corruption bureau (ACB) for accepting bribe of Rs 4 lakh from a builder, has spilled the beans before the agency which has brought top notches of Vadodara Urban Development Authority (VUDA) under the radar.

 Shah, planning assistant engineer of VUDA, had accepted a bribe of Rs 4 lakh through Patel from a Rajkot-based builder for granting completion certificate for his residential projection on Bil-Padra Road. ACB sources said that on Saturday, Shah admitted to accepting bribe amount and passing on cuts to his bosses in VUDA.
 
 In the current case, Shah had demanded Rs 4.2 lakh, of which Rs 1.5 lakh was Patel’s share, Rs 70,000 was his and the remaining amount was allegedly to be given to assistant town planner A C Vyas, town planning officer A Krishna Rao and chief executive officer of VUDA Dr N K Mina. 
 
 Interestingly, after the arrests, N V Patel, chairman of VUDA, had ordered an internal probe against Shah under Rao. Vyas, who is currently the assistant town planner, was reappointed after his retirement.
 
 Sources said that Shah also admitted that in the current case, Mina had taken decision about the complainant’s file and it was signed by Rao.
 
 “Names of several top officials of VUDA have come out during our investigations and we will act against each one of them,” said P R Gehlot, assistant director, Vadodara.
 
 The agency has also procured CCTV camera footages of VUDA Bhavan to know the visits of people at Shah and other officials’ offices.
 
 Meanwhile, license of Patel, a VUDA authorized architect, was revoked by the authority. Shah had demanded bribe from the complainant even after the builder had paid Rs 74,600 at the time of applying certificate and then remaining Rs 2.22 lakh earlier this month.
 
 Both, Shah and Patel are in ACB’s custody till Monday.
 
 Story 2:
 
 Well-oiled ‘system’ in place at VUDA 
 
 Vadodara: The investigations of anti-corruption bureau have revealed the well-oiled system of corruption was in place at Vadodara Urban Development Authority (VUDA) since several years.
 
 Shah’s admission before the agency, has thrown light over how the cuts pass from planning assistant engineer to chief executive officer (CEO) of VUDA. ACB sources said that Shah admitted that in 50% of files that come to VUDA for clearance every month, under the table amount is demanded from the applicants. On an average, 50 files come to for clearance every month.
 
 Shah admitted that when he joined VUDA in 2008, the system was already in place and soon he too became a part of it. He told the officials that from his level to CEO’s, each official has 25% share in the bribe amount.
 
 Even the architects and builders of the city who have their projects in VUDA’s limits are also aware of this system, and they too pay the bribe amount accordingly, Shah admitted.
 
 Box 1:
 
 ACB writes to state government
 
 According to ACB officials, they have already informed the government about the involvement of top brass of VUDA in the corruption case. Keshav Kumar, in-charge director of ACB, Gujarat, has written a letter to the government informing about the incessant corrupt practice in VUDA. An ACB official said that since VUDA is a statutory body established by the government and since there are involvement of top officials, the government has been kept in loop about the investigations.
 
 Box 2:
 
 Rao transferred 
 
 The state government, on Saturday, transferred town planning officer A Krishna Rao. He was instructed by N V Patel, chairman of VUDA, to probe charges against graft accused R C Shah. Shah’s admissions have revealed that it was Rao who had signed on the file of the complainant after CEO Dr N K Mina gave his approval. “Action will be taken against all officials whose names will come out in the case,” said Patel.
 
 
