CHARMINAR: A 45-year-old woman from Sanathnagar,  , has been freed from the clutches of her kafil in  , thanks to the   which acted on a complaint against the agents who sent her there. 

 Begumpet Inspector   who registered an FIR against the agents who illegally sent Haseena to Saudi Arabia got the agents to resolve the issue so that the kafil would let her go.
 
 Haseena Begum was pushed from the third floor of a building in Damam in Saudi Arabia by her kafil and also thrashed in a police station. After TOI reported about Haseena's plight, union external affairs minister Sushma Swaraj, the Indian Embassy in Saudi Arabia and Protector General of India (PGE) MC Luther had taken up Haseena Begum's issue. 
 
 MBT leader Amjedullah Khan who was approached by Mohd Wajid, the son of Haseena Begum, provided all the information necessary to the external affairs ministry, embassy and the local police at Sanathnagar to get Haseena to be rescued. At his instance, the chief secretary of Telangana also wrote a letter to the embassy. "Haseena Begum has been rescued but the case against the kafil for pushing her from the third floor of a building should be pursued in Saudi Arabia by the embassy," Amjedullah Khan said.
 
 Begumpet inspector G Jagan who studied the case, gave the two arrested illegal agents time to return the amounts to the kafil which they had taken from him to recruit Haseena Begum to work for him in Saudi Arabia. This was the demand of the kafil that the amount be returned. The agents reportedly returned 15,000  , which is nearly Rs 2.80 lakh to the kafil following which he agreed to release Haseena Begum.
 
 Haseena Begum had suffered fractures on her legs and back after she was pushed from a building by the kafil. She was hospitalized but later shifted to a police station. 
 
 The kafil had threatened to file a theft case against her that would make it impossible for her to return to India.
 
 To prevent that, the agents in Hyderabad were made to return the amount they took from him.
 
  G Jagan who studied the case, gave the two arrested illegal agents time to return the amounts to the kafil which they had taken from him to recruit Haseena Begum to work for him in Saudi Arabia 
 
 
