Last month, a motorcyle manufacturer took re verse mentoring to the streets. A Kolkata neighbourhood woke up on a chilly morning to find children dressed up as comic characters -Chhota Bheem and his buddy Chutki -dancing and singing at thoroughfares, imparting lessons on road safety, etiquette and traffic rules.

 While this was an exercise in combining social awareness with brand uplift, India Inc is also adopting the idea to enhance professional skills at the workplace. Senior professionals are being equipped with new technologies and the latest social media and communication tools -with a little help from their junior colleagues.
 
 Audit and consulting major PwC recently asked its senior leaders if they would be open to mentoring by junior professionals on matters like new technology and social media skills. About 80% of the senior leaders said `yes'.
 
 Jagjit Singh, chief people officer, PwC India, says that more and more organisations in India are warming up to the idea of reverse mentoring. “At PwC, a majority of our recent hires are millennials (over 80%) and they are very forthcoming in sharing their perspective. They come with fresh eyes, open minds, and instant links to the technology of our future. We consciously try and become more receptive to what they have to say .“
 
 Reverse mentoring is arguably the brainchild of General Electric CEO  , who brought in younger and tech-savvy employees to teach him about the internet. An impressed Welch later directed more than 500 managers at GE to go through the same `mentoring'. Thus, a big chunk of the company's senior executives became students of lower-rung workers, which in turn made GE a technology-driven behemoth.
 
 Closer home, Hindustan Unilever, the FMCG giant, pursued the strategy at the highest level a few years ago, with then CEO Nitin Paranjpe receiving insights into social media from Karthik Perumal, who was 17 years his junior and the organisation's media services manager.
 
 Y S Guleria, senior VP (sales and marketing),   Motorcycle and Scooter India, explains that reverse mentoring is increasingly becoming an integral part of home and work life -at home, children advise their parents on everything from environmental awareness to nutrition and the latest gadgets.
 
 Other corporate behemoths like Dell, Procter & Gamble,  , Starbucks Coffee and Nokia have used reverse mentoring to address the fast-changing needs of its executives. Marico,   and Accenture have used it to re-orient their recruitment and HR strategies.
 
 Now, even startups like Lenskart are using this strategy to innovate and create a leadership pipeline. “Technology has flipped traditional roles and veterans seek the help of the younger lot to understand the latest in technology, social media and the fast-changing marketplace. It creates a much more caring and infor mal work culture and leads to better ideation. It also promotes the idea that you never stop learning and turns the company into a self-learning entity,“ says Calvin Lyngdoh, chief human resource officer at Lenskart.com. Indeed, reverse mentoring conversations gave birth to many flexibility benefits such as `work from home', `flexi-work week', `full circle' programmes for women with childrencaregiving needs and revamp of the performance management process.
 
 According to startup coach Kalyan Kar, HR departments have understood the huge generation gap between existing managers and newcomers. “It makes sense because, the younger lot can adapt to changes faster, and then they can pass on the lessons to their elder colleagues,“ says Kar.
 
 At times, there is some resistance to the idea of being mentored by the younger lot, admits   of PwC.“But in the long run, it helps in breaking hierarchical work structures,“ he adds. Sociologist Prasanta Roy also finds it a cost-effective way of up-skilling mid-level managers. “They don't need to send their managers to outside institutes now,“ explains Roy .
 
