With his carefree characters in Charlie and Bangalore Days, an intense look in Kammatipaadam, and the role of an ever-charismatic Aadi in OK Kanmani, actor   has definitely proved himself to be a versatile actor. Now, he’s taking his acting prowess to a whole new level with Bejoy Nambiar’s Solo. He will be seen playing four different characters —  ,  , Shiva and   — in the bilingual. Testing the waters in other industries, this year, Dulquer will also be seen acting in Tollywood and Bollywood with Mahanati and Karwaan, respectively. In a chat with us, the actor opens up about  , his body of work and how he’s enjoying fatherhood...

 
 
 (Laughs) I am not heading anywhere. I guess I am just getting to do interesting films in different industries, though my primary focus will always be Malayalam. Doing a Telugu film was not a conscious decision at all. I found the script interesting. I love period films. I like pre-independence films and movies like Bãhubali. The team of Mahanati is very young. They had this feeling that I could pull off the role quite well and that’s how I was roped in. The language is very different, but it was because of them that I got the confidence to do it. It’s just a coincidence that this year I am acting in films in multiple languages.
 
 
 
 The thing is that we only know him through his appearances on screen. All the actors in that era had a larger-than-life screen presence and I think that was the norm. But I am showing his life off screen. I didn’t want to show him in a very cinematic way in his day-to-day life. So, we are not really delving into his movies, but it is more to do with his life off screen. And there is no way I am going to look like him. So, I am not really going to portray, imitate or mimic him in any way, which is what the director also wants.
 
 
 
 I don’t think it has anything to do with sustenance. I can continue to do Malayalam films alone. But I think it is a very interesting phase for actors. Everybody is exposed to everything and people from around the country get to work in different languages. Today, regional cinema is not just limited to one particular place. The audience is also ready to accept actors from other industries and everybody watches everything. People from north India have congratulated me on my Malayalam films.
 
 
 
 I think all the four of them look, act and even walk differently. In whatever way possible, we have tried to keep them as different as possible. And they are all very different from how I am in real life. Bejoy had a good clarity about each of them and he knew what exactly he wanted. Rudra is not instantly likable, Shekhar has a certain limitation and he stutters, Shiva fights his own demons and Trilok is on a mission. They all have angst and are all intense characters. I think Bejoy always chooses intense characters. We treated each part as a separate movie and finished shooting one before we jumped to the other. We sincerely brainstormed before shooting each one of them to understand the characters better. We’ve shot them in different periods, locations and with different characters. So, that made things easier for me to switch from one character to the other. I think only a Kamal Haasan can do four roles and shoot for them simultaneously. I cannot even attempt something like that.
 
 
 
 The drive and passion to make good movies is evident in both of them. Once they get into that work mode, they are like — shoot, shoot, shoot... It is good because at the end of it, the actor feels like he has accomplished a lot. You don’t even realise when work on the film started and when it ended. You are always on your feet and high on energy. Both of them have a vision and an ear for music. However, I don’t think Bejoy, at any point, tries to imitate Mani sir. But there is definitely a quality of filmmaking which he has learnt from his 
 mentor.
 
 
 
 (Laughs). No, no... I think she is used to me romancing women in films. And most often, they get to interact with my wife at some point of time. But I must say that Bejoy has gotten some great talents in this film. They all have strong characters and all the four stories are based around them. This movie gives great acting prospects to all the actors.
 
 
 
 I personally don’t want to be boxed into one category. Because it then becomes a comfort zone and you tend to keep falling into that. Fortunately for me, Malayalam audience is very critical and upfront. They know what they want to see and what they don’t. Each time I do a film, they voice their opinions and they don’t mince words. So, every time I sign a new film, I try not to repeat the same kind of roles. Currently, I don’t think I have one particular tag. And ideally, that should be the way forward for me. Because, I genuinely want to give every role my best.
 
 
 
 Absolutely. In a way, I see my career as a portfolio. When I am old and gone, people should remember my body of work. They should say, ‘He has an amazing portfolio of films’. I hope to be part of an amazing collection of films; not so much to do with me or my character, but the films should be good.
 
 
 
 He expects me to have a separate strategy as an actor. He has never interfered or meddled with my choice of films or my decisions. He wants me to learn from my mistakes, grow and own up to my mistakes. He doesn’t talk too much about my films because I think he doesn’t want me to get overconfident. Others in the family also keep a check on that.
 
 
 
 I don’t really sing. There are very few music directors who have tried and made me sing. I think those were just smart moves from the directors to market me and the film. As for writing, I am very bad at putting pen to paper. But I have broad storylines in my head. But before anything else, it’s direction that I want to do. I have always been fascinated with direction. But then, I didn’t want to make it look like I am running away from acting or the comparisons to my father. So, I decided to face the fear head on and became an actor. As for production, I would like to support smaller films and ideally not produce my own movies. I have the time to do only five to six films a year, so I would like to associate myself with films that I am unable to do, and those that have great and newer content.
 
 
 
 I don’t think it has changed me drastically. We are still very new to it; she is only four months old. I am always very charged to get home and she’s an additional reason for that. I observe her very closely and her every move, even when she sleeps. My parents had been very paranoid and now, I know why they were like that. I have a feeling that I will also turn out to be a paranoid father. I also see myself pushing a little more to be more fit and look like a young, cool dad.
 
 
 
 According to me, making a movie in any industry is not easy. A lot depends on the subject, the logistics, etc. But I think Tamil and Telugu films have bigger scale, unlike Malayalam. In Malayalam, we have more budget constraints and have to make sure we finish a certain scene within a given time frame. We cannot afford to extend things. But that is a little lesser in Tamil and even lesser in Telugu. But the craft or the effort is the same.
 
 
 
 Do you think Vijay or Ajith have ever had a fight? I think they are just happy, living their lives or meeting up for dinner, etc. I think fan base is like supporting a sports team. I like CSK and so, I support them, and you might like RCB and therefore, you root for them. In India, before cricket became a craze, we only had movies. So, if fans are having fun, it’s great. I don’t think any of the actors have a problem with each other. How can they compare two big films by two big stars? They might have been conceived in different times, dealing with different subjects, etc. So, social wars are a lot like supporting a sports team
 
