MUMBAI: Three students of a school at Nalasopara have been booked for allegedly   their 14-year-old classmate who tried to end his life on Monday. However, no arrest has been made.

 The victim, meanwhile, is showing signs of improvement.
 
 The class VII student had joined the school in July after his family shifted from Malad. On Monday, when he returned home, his father, an autorickshaw driver, was at work, and his mother had gone to the market. 
 
 He changed his school clothes, climbed a chair, tied two dumb bells, each weighing 15 pounds, to his feet, and hanged himself from an iron rod on the ceiling using a nylon rope. His older brother Vivek came home in the nick of time and rescued him.
 
 The victim’s family has told the police he was tormented by classmates who began by elbowing him and hitting him on his head. This progressed to hiding his tiffin box and emptying his water bottle. They would even throw away his school bag and books.
 
 On Friday, he had come home with nail marks on his neck. The next day, after his parents brought it to the notice of the school authorities, the victim was made to sit on the front bench. The bullies were warned and let off. The parents alleged they had brought the bullying to the notice of the school every week, but the matter was taken lightly.
 
 Tuling police inspector Kishore Khairnar said they visited the school and spoke to students who named the three boys, who are known to harass students. “A case of ragging has been filed against the boys aged 13 and 14 years. The teens as well as their parents have been questioned,” said Khairnar. 
 
 The boys, who stay in the same locality as the victim, have denied their involvement.
 
 Dr Ajay Jadhav of Alliance Hospital, where the victim has been admitted, said though he is on ventilator, his condition is improving. He said the boy was being monitored 24x7.
 
 Police interrogated the principal, who is the complainant in the case, as well as school authorities. As of now, no case has been made against the school. Khairnar said they will wait for the victim to recover so that he can provide details. The victim’s parents have also given their statement.
 
