PUNE: Former chief minister and senior Congress leader   on Wednesday said the Nationalist   should clarify its stance on the BJP. 

 Chavan told TOI, "Pawar unequivocally announced unconditional support to BJP after the 2014 assembly polls. Today, he is saying his party will not support the BJP government if   withdraws. He (Pawar) must explain the association with BJP and end the confusion." 
 
 Pawar on Tuesday had said that the   would face mid-term polls if the BJP government loses the majority and will not support the   government. When TOI asked Chavan if he believes Pawar's statement, he said, "It is the people in the state who have to believe or disbelieve." 
 
 Chavan said that even if the Sena withdraws support, the Fadnavis government would not collapse on its own. "Some party will have to bring a no-confidence motion on the floor of the House. Shiv Sena will have to do it as it is the second largest party," he said. 
 
 "The Congress is clear and categorical in its stand. We will not support the Sena to form a government, nor will we support BJP. This is not the case with Pawar's party. But if Pawar is saying that he will not support the BJP government, it is definitely a step away from his earlier stand where he was ready to support them unconditionally," Chavan said. 
 
 He felt the Shiv Sena will not exit the power corridors easily. It is likely that the BJP and Sena would continue with the coalition despite their differences and mudslinging. 
 
 Claiming that the war-of-words between the two ruling partners have created political instability, Chavan said as the bigger partner, BJP had the responsibility to take along its junior. BJP is using power to put pressure on its opponents, he added. 
 
 He said the BJP had delayed the Pune metro project and messed up the development plan. He added that the Smart Cities Mission was a fruitless exercise.
 
 He said he had no problems with the Congress joining hands with Pawar's party in the local elections. "I am ready for a joint campaign with NCP leaders," Chavan said.
 
