GUWAHATI: Stepping out of his ever-busy workroom, chief minister   was seen mingling with   on the concluding day of the mega education fest- Gunotsav on Friday. 

 Playing the role of an ideal teacher, Sonowal took lessons in morals at the Panindra Higher Secondary School in upper Assam's Lakhimpur district and engaged himself in a lively interaction with the children. He personally inspected some of the classrooms of the 65-year-old school. 
 
 Sonowal gave a clarion call to the students to empower themselves with knowledge so that they could scale new heights. "Knowledge is power," the chief minister told students.
 
 While appealing to the student community to work with discipline, punctuality, perseverance and a strong moral character, he asked the teachers to play a proactive role in helping the students to inculcate these qualities.
 
 Stating cleanliness is next to godliness, the chief minister called upon the students and the teaching fraternity to lend their hands for a cleaner school and its ambiance. Reiterating that the state government is committed to make Assam one of the most developed states in the country, Sonowal urged the students, teachers and guardians to make a concerted effort to fulfil the mission.
 
 "Teaching is a noble profession. The purpose of this profession is not to mind money but develop and shape human resources," Sonowal told the teachers and urged them to impart value based education to help students develop a strong moral character and self-confidence. He also said success has no short-cuts. "In order to be successful in life, students have to work hard. There is no other short-cut," said the chief minister while evaluating the quality of education. He was accompanied by Assam PWD minister   and MLAs   and Utpal Bora.
 
 Gunotsav, adopted from the Gujarat edition of the fest with modifications, has introduced a new window of innovative thinking in the education system. IAS, IPS, other senior officers and MLAs have acted as external evaluators to assess the quality of education and environment in over 12,000 government-run schools in the state covering more than nine lakh students from classes II to VIII. 
 
 The evaluation system introduced through Gunotsav will lead to quality education and generate awareness for meaningful education, said Sonowal. 
 
 "Without education, knowledge will be elusive. Educated and wise people can only play the role of nurturing a strong nation," the chief minister added.
 
