PATNA: If you think winter is over, you need to correct yourself. The weatherman has forecast rain in   on January 26 and 27.

 The  , in its all-India rainfall forecast on Monday, said isolated rainfall is expected in Bihar on the Republic Day and the day after. For, an active western disturbance is most likely to affect the western Himalayan region from January 23 and the plains of northwest India from January 24 onwards.
 
 The bulletin says fairly widespread to widespread rain or snowfall activity is most likely to occur over the western Himalayan region, including J&K, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand, from January 24 to 27.
 
 Moving west, the western disturbance is expected to cause fairly widespread to widespread rain or thundershower over Punjab and Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi and scattered to fairly widespread rainfall activity over western UP and northern Rajasthan from January 25 to 27.
 
 “This western disturbance is quite strong and, as such, is likely to cover majority of northwest India and affect the weather in Bihar as well. After leading to snowfall and showers in north India including J&K, Punjab, Haryana, Delhi and western UP, it is expected to cause light rainfall in Bihar as well on January 26 and 27,” said a senior meteorologist at the   on Monday. 
 
 He said day temperature is most likely to fall for a couple of days from January 26. Besides, the moisture incursion from the western disturbance may lead to foggy mornings for a few days.
 
 This would probably be the first rainfall at most places in Bihar this winter. Western disturbances are low-pressure areas or extra-tropical storms originating from the  , Red Sea and Caspian Sea, which cause winter rainfalls in northwest Indian subcontinent. This winter, however, most winter disturbances have passed from upper latitudes, giving Bihar a miss.
 
 Weather conditions in Patna and most places in the state are, however, expected to remain unchanged till the arrival of the upcoming western disturbance. Skies are likely to be clear and the maximum temperature will hover around 28-29 degree C while the minimum temperature will be around 11-13 degree C. 
 
 Usually, winter is over in Bihar in the second week of February when, in meteorological parlance, night readings are more than 13 degree C. In most districts of Bihar right now, the minimum readings are hovering around 10 degree C.
 
