PUNE: A magisterial court at Wadgaon Maval has granted a default   to  , the lone arrested   in the   of techie  , following the failure of the Pune rural police to file a chargesheet within the stipulated 90 days.

 On March 27, the police had moved a plea seeking the court’s permission for 45 days’ additional time to file the chargesheet as it wanted to get a narco test done on the suspect and also needed time to crack details of the suspect’s cellphone.
 
 However, first class judicial magistrate H Y Kawale, while granting the bail on Wednesday, also directed a notice against the investigating officer (IO) to show cause as to why he should not be held liable for disregard towards his duty in not filing the chargesheet.
 
  “Considering the maximum punishment stipulated for offence and the nature of case triable by a sessions court, the police were duty bound to submit the charge sheet within 90 days from December 29, 2016 (when Gupta was first produced before the JMFC),” Kawale observed.
 
 Gupta’s lawyer Anup Pande told TOI on Thursday, “We won’t be pressing now for an order on his bail application that was argued on the merits of the case before additional sessions judge M J Dhote in Pune.”
 
 The actual killer in the case is yet to be arrested and the sessions’ court had asked the prosecution whether there was any proof to show that Gupta hatched the murder conspiracy. Gupta has been charged with conspiracy to murder Das with the help of a hired killer.
 
 The case was initially probed by the   police before it was handed over to Pune rural police crime branch.
 
 The IO, senior inspector Ram Jadhav, said, “I will reply to the notice explaining why the chargesheet could not be filed on time. We had moved the court on the 89th day for extension of the deadline as the suspect had given his consent for narco test, which needs time to get done at the forensic lab. The probe could not be completed because of this and other factors like cell phone details.”
 
 Kawale has directed Gupta’s release against a personal bond of Rs 25,000 and one or two sureties of the like amount. Gupta has to report to the Dehu Road police at 11am every Sunday till the filing of the chargesheet and has to assist the probe whenever called, the court said. He has to attend the forensic lab for the narco test and has been restrained from directly or indirectly influencing or threatening prosecution witnesses and he cannot leave India without the court’s permission.
 
 Antara was stabbed to death by an unknown assailant a few meters from the Capgemini campus at Talawade on the night of December 23, 2016. 
 
