BETTIAH:   by a team of doctors set up by the   found a juvenile inmate of the   to be an adult on Tuesday.

 He was earlier arrested and confessed to his involvement along with another inmate of the remand home in the murder of   on the   last Thursday.
 
 It has been an open secret of sorts for quite sometime that the Motihari and Bettiah remand homes, supposedly correction centres for juveniles, are nurseries of crime. The inmates have graduated to become hardened criminals as these homes, far from being a sanctuary for reform, have flourished as finishing schools in the curricula of crime.
 
 At least two inmates from the Motihari home, hired by dons incarcerated in jail or absconding, slipped out, rather walked out, with impunity to carry out the contract killing last Thursday. Their logistics were fine-tuned by their handlers: firearms, safe house, smartphones and getaway mobikes. Both of them have a history sheet of executing crime, moving out from and slipping back to their sanctuary in the remand home.
 
 Part of a court-appointed two-lawyer team to study the condition of the Bettiah remand home about 18 years ago, this correspondent had come across young boys, barely in teens, accused of heinous crimes such as murder and rape. It is also alleged that remand home inmates fudge their age to escape the rigours of penal law. Complicity of remand home babus too has been alleged whenever inmates have been discovered to have executed crimes outside.
 
 In January 2014, six remand home inmates were nabbed for a dacoity bid at Shikarganj near Patahi in East Champaran. Four of them were from the Bettiah remand home. Police had also recovered firearms, knife and cellphones from them. 
 
 In 2014 itself, another inmate from the Bettiah home, accused of looting Rs six lakh from a trader in Raxaul, had surrendered in court. In 2016, four inmates had escaped from the Motihari home. Accused in cases of loot and attempt to murder, one of them has been again arrested by the Bettiah police in recent court murder case. Also in 2016, three escaped inmates from Motihari remand home were arrested in a loot case in Kusinagar in neighbouring UP.
 
 Earlier this year, a teenage girl student of Mahatma Gandhi Central University in Motihari had a providential escape when attackers tried to mow her down on the road when she was going to write her exam. An eyewitness to her brother’s murder, she was to depose in a Motihari sessions court soon. The attackers again were said to be remand home boys.
 
