SURAT: A slew of new developments could come the way of high-flying Surtis this year. At least four new airlines are likely to start operations from the city in the next few months. 

 At present, Air India (AI) is the lone operator at Surat airport with its two Airbus aircraft flying between Surat and Delhi and a three-day a week flight between Surat and Mumbai. 
 
 SpiceJet, which had terminated its flight services from Surat after a buffalo hit its aircraft on the runway in November 2014, is relaunching the flight services from the Diamond City from March 26. SpiceJet will connect Surat with Delhi and later plans to connect the Diamond City with important domestic and international destinations. 
 
 Zoom Air, which is headquartered at Gurgaon, is in the process of launching flight services by March-end. The company has written to the Directorate General of   ( ) for providing flying slots to it at Surat airport and started base training for its crew members. The airline is likely to launch flight services from Surat to Mumbai, Goa and Delhi, sources said. 
 
 Two days ago, the ground safety team from Vistara airline visited Surat airport for safety survey. The company is likely to submit a proposal to the DGCA and seek flying slot at Surat airport as it intends to start flight services from April. The airline will be connecting Surat with Delhi, Chennai, Hyderabad and Bengaluru.
 
 ‘Member of We Want A working Airport At Surat’ (WWWAS) Sanjay Jain said, “A lot of private airlines are vying to enter Surat market, looking at the phenomenal success of AI operations in the last few months. We have met all the key people of leading private airline companies operating in India. We presented them with factual figures on passenger traffic and business potential of the city having a population of 50 lakh.”
 
 Airport director   told TOI, “The airport runway extension work is going on a full swing and will be completed by May. We are soon going to launch the modification of the terminal building to get custom airport status from   (CBEC). In the next couple of months, Surat will be ready to handle limited international operations.”
 
 
