JAIPUR: Till Monday, the   (JLF) was a largely tame affair. And then exiled Bangladeshi writer   made an impromptu appearance on the last day, immediately drawing protesting Muslim groups outside the venue.

 Adding fuel to fire, the controversial author pledged her firm support for the Uniform Civil Code (UCC) and underscored its importance in ensuring gender equality.
 
 Nasrin questioned the secularism of Indian state which was sheltering fanatics who issued fatwas and set a prize for her head.
 
 “Many Muslims do not want UCC but it’s urgently necessary for women’s rights,” said Nasrin, questioning why the ‘secular’ people of India were against UCC.
 
 Amid protests by Muslim groups outside the JLF venue, Nasrin lashed out against fundamentalists and ‘seculars’ alike.
 
 The controversial writer slammed West Bengal chief minister Mamta Banerjee for paying lip-service to secularism. She alleged that Banerjee was in cahoots with the Kolkata-based Imam Syed Noor-ur-Rehman Barkati, who has issued a fatwa against her.
 
 “We proudly say this country is secular. But what do you mean by secularism? Why do you encourage Muslim fanatics to issue fatwas against people? For Muslim votes, you throw secular people out of the country and encourage Muslim fanatics who don’t believe in democracy and human rights,” said Nasrin.
 
 Speaking for equal rights, the author urged the Islamic society to be tolerant and allow progress. Without criticism, it will be impossible to bring democracy to Islamic countries, she said.
 
 On freedom of speech, Nasrin emphasized that democracy would have no value without free speech. She called for getting rid of all outdated archaic laws that curb freedom of speech.
 
 “All British laws used against freedom of expression should be abolished. Without freedom of expression, democracy will not have meaning,” Nasrin added.
 
 This session of the ‘controversial’ writer was not scheduled at the JLF. Many in the audience were surprised to see Nasrin on the dais. She argued that fundamentalism cannot be eradicated by killing people or punishing people but only through secular education.
 
 Rejecting the idea of nationalism, Nasrin maintained her belief in freedom and one world. “I don’t believe in nationalism. I believe in humanism, rationalism, rights, freedom and one passport and one world,” added Nasrin.
 
 
