THANE: Marked by the birth anniversary of   in Hindu mythology, Guru Purnima will be celebrated on Sunday as a mark of reverence to a   who shared his knowledge and showed the path of enlightenment to his disciples.

 The celebrations which take place today have stemmed out of the traditional Indian practice of guru-shishya, which symbolizes the relationship between the knowledge giver and the recipient. Right from the little ones to the elderly, all have their own ways of worshipping their gurus in their life. 
 
 Guru Purnima is not restricted to children who pay their respects to their teachers, but is observed by people from all spheres of life to honour their gurus for their teachings and values. 
 
 Singer, lyricist and music composer, Koyel Tripathi, a resident of Devdaya Nagar who has been practicing music for the last 25 years, said, “Every year, on guru purnima I pay a visit to my teacher and other mentors who have trained and guided me to become who I am today in this field. All the students get together and sing compositions written by our teacher, followed by preaching. Since music is not just a passion for me but an integral part of my life, I start the day by singing in front for the gods, thanking them for all that I have got.”
 
 Some disciples dedicate the entire day to their gurus and even perform tasks or rituals in order to obtain their blessings and forgiveness for any wrong doings. 
 
 Shraddha Vedak (22), a resident of Dosti Vihar, said, “We have a get-together program in my dance class, where we organize performances for our teachers. We welcome the teachers in a grand traditional style wherein students wash their guru’s feet with milk.”
 
 While professionals carry out a range of unique activities, devotees of spiritual personalities have their own style of worshipping their gurus. 
 
 A follower of  , 83-year-old Nana Satkar from Louiswadi, said, “More than 30 devotees gather in a particular house in the city on this day to remember the Maharaj. We continuously chant and preaching takes place throughout the day, followed by bhajan programs.”
 
 
