MYSURU: Public money spent on educating our lawmakers about government schemes wasn’t utilized to the fullest extent as 75% of participants gave skipped an awareness   organized for MLCs in Mysuru. 

 The state government had planned workshops to create awareness for MLCs in three phases and a two-day workshop in Mysuru starting on Friday was the first. Only six of the 25 persons scheduled to attend the event turned up at ATI, Mysuru. 
 
 The government had allocated Rs 15 lakh for the event, an official said. The rural development and   department had organised a workshop to create awareness about various projects of the department.
 
 The legislative council chairman and department’s minister, who hosted the event, were disappointed at the poor attendance.
 
 “We had organised the workshop in the hope that at least 15 members of the council would attend it to gain knowledge about various government programmes. We were disappointed that only a handful of people showed interest in it,” said legislative council chairman   and minister H K Patil. 
 
 The workshop was held at the Abdul Nazir Sab State Institute of Rural Development and Panchayat Raj. While MLCs from distant places like Mahantesh Kavatagi Mutt (Belagavi),   (Udupi), K Pratap Chandra Shetty (Kundapura) and S V Sankanur (Gadag district) attended the programme, MLCs from Mysuru region were not there. Only MLC R Dharamasena attended the event. 
 
 Dharmasena said the workshop will help them discuss issues in the council. 
 
 ‘Lack of knowledge disappointing’
 
 Minister H K Patil, during his introductory speech, said crores of rupees are being spent on various programmes by the government. “During council sessions, most members don’t add to the discussion due to lack of knowledge about the programmes and that’s disappointing. Only when there is a healthy discussion, the programme will be successfully implemented with necessary changes,” he said. 
 
 Patil said nearly 23 circulars and orders were amended to introduce the KPR Act. Of the 60 rules, already 30 preliminary notifications have been issued and the complete process will be completed by March. “We’re the first in the country to introduce district courts. The Namma Grama Namma Yojane has been made completely transparent with all details uploaded to the website. If we explain the initiatives in the assembly, the members won’t show interest, so it’s important to create awareness through such workshops,” he said.
 
 During the inaugural address, chairman Shankaramurthy said there are 75 council members and the workshop was split into three phases. As there was poor response from the members, one session will be held in Bengaluru to enable all members attend it.
 
 Meanwhile, the department decided to hold the second workshop on February 20 and 21 at the same venue.
 
  department principal secretary  , ANSSIRD director D Pranesh Rao and others were present at the event. H K Patil inaugurated the D Devaraja Urs drinking water unit, costing around Rs 7 lakh, at ANSSIRD premises. The government has taken up the installation of 7,000 water units.
 
 
