KOLKATA: Rs 4.8 lakh. That was the   for the star-studded movie ‘Hangover’ from the Rose Valley Group which released with much fanfare in 2010, going by the   of  . 

 The movie, directed by Prabhat Roy, featured Tolly’s biggest star Prosenjit Chatterjee, actress Sayantika Banerjee and Rose Valley chief Gautam Kundu’s wife Subhra Kundu, among others. Bappi Lahiri’s son Bappa was the music composer. But its expense was not a rupee more than Rs 4.8 lakh, if the figures provided are to be believed.
 
 Similarly, the critically acclaimed movie ‘Ichche’, which came out the following year, cost only Rs 15 lakh, going by Rose Valley Films’ balance sheet for 2009-’10. The Shiboprosad Mukherjee- and Nandita Roy-directed movie was presented by actress Rituparna Sengupta. Industry sources, without wanting to be named, said the film had a total expense of Rs 90 lakh.
 
 Such claims in the books of the Rose Valley Group are giving sleepless nights to central investigating agencies probing the Rs 17,000-crore alleged Ponzi scam. While the directors and cast of the movies were unaware of what happened behind the scenes, Kundu had a different game plan with his venture into Tollywood, investigators feel. 
 
 The other figures similarly stretch the imagination, said sources. Between 2008 and 2010, Kundu spent only Rs 4,000 on his ongoing movie project ‘Unish Kuri’. For another movie, ‘Mon Jare Chay’, he spent just Rs 5,920 in two years. There were movies like ‘Maharathi’ that had an expense of merely Rs 1.10 lakh. Some of the movies under the Rose Valley Group were released, and some never saw light of day. “There is no doubt that much of the investment of the Rose Valley Group was through movies the company produced and media houses,” a CBI official said. 
 
 How could Kundu make movies with so low expenses? Investigators have reasons to believe that he took the route of investing through unaccounted-for cash to fund some of the movies he produced over the years. He had also taken the route of pumping money through a complex web of cross-holdings to invest in the movies, sleuths claim. “We are now looking into whether he was siphoning off money under the garb of movies. We are looking into the accounts of each company he was linked to,” an ED official said.
 
 When approached, Kundu’s lawyer Biplab Goswami said: “We cannot comment offhand. We have to see the balance sheet to find the truth behind it.”
 
 Central investigating agencies have also started looking into the proposed film city project of the Rose Valley Group in north Bengal. According to sources, Kundu had planned to build a plush film city spread over more than 100 acres in Siliguri. He had acquired land for the project too and had approached a prominent leader to convert the land character. The project did not kick off as Kundu was unable to get the entire plot converted to a commercial project, sources said.
 
 Kundu was admitted to SSKM Hospital on Monday night after he complained of chest pain. 
 
 
