GHAZIABAD:   in Indirapuram has issued transfer certificates ( ) to 18 students after their parents refused to submit the increased fee for the 2017-18 session along with annual and development charges.

 Parents have complained against the school to Meerut divisional commissioner   who in turn directed the district magistrate to address their concerns.
 
 The school despatched the TCs to the parents through an email dated July 24 but sent on Tuesday, July 25. However, after the intervention of district magistrate Ministhy S and ADM (revenue) Rajesh Yadav, the school has given a 10-day grace period for the parents to pay the fees.
 
 While the parents are firm on not paying the annual and development charges — which are illegal — the school is stubborn about collecting those fee components apart from the tuition fee. An email was sent to the parents around 6pm on Wednesday evening giving them 10 more days.
 
 According to the parents, the TCs were sent to them after the school had forewarned them of the action by email on July 15. In that letter the school had asked them to deposit the increased fees by July 22 or face action.
 
 In a copy of the TC accessed by TOI, the reason for leaving the school is mentioned as “non-payment of fee”. The column for ‘any other remarks’ reads that the “name of student struck off due to non-payment of school fee”.
 
 In a letter to DM Ministhy S dated July 24, the parents had said that in a fresh assault, the school “has targeted a few among the protesting parents who were raising their voices against this gross injustice.”  , zonal head, Presidium Indirapuram, told TOI, “For us, the annual and development charges are very much a part of the fees. We can’t run the school merely on the tuition fee. We had a meeting with the ADM (Revenue), who gave them clarity and that the documents they are quoting are advisory in nature and not orders. These parents are have not submitted fees for the last three or two years,” she said. “The school has increased the fees by 10% every year under all the heads including annual and development charges. It is also charging different amounts of fees from different parents claiming that it is doing so on the basis of the discount offered to the parents at the time of admission,” said  , a parent whose daughter was issued a TC.
 
 He said former joint education director (Meerut) Mahendra Dev has restrained the school from charging fees under the heads after parents brought the issue to his knowledge. The order by the then JED, Dev, issued on January 11, 2017, and accessed by TOI, has directed the school not to charge fee under any heads not prescribed by the government and also refrain from running classes in the basement of the building. Shrivastava said that hundreds of parents have not paid the annual and development charges and about 60 parents were interested in paying the fee according to the structure of 2015-16. However, in a meeting with ADM (Revenue) Ghaziabad Rajesh Yadav, all the parents had agreed to pay according to the 2016-17 structure, he said.
 
