MUMBAI: Developer   registered a complaint with Powai police the previous Tuesday on learning of fake social media accounts in his name.

 The miscreant used Hiranandani's fake accounts on  ,   and   to correspond with his friends and collect confidential details such as his contact numbers and company-related information. In the past, city police have registered cases of fake accounts being misused to extract money from friends (see box). In this case, the miscreant did not make any monetary demands of Hiranandani's friends.
 
 Hiranandani learned about the fake accounts when he began to get calls from concerned friends asking why was he seeking his own contact details and confidential information on Facebook and other sites. “What I learned from the IT department was that my fake accounts on Facebook, Instagram and Linkedin had been created almost three weeks ago. Cops are probing the exact reason behind the fake profiles. I would have not known of the accounts had I not been alerted by my friends who called and asked what was wrong with me for asking for my own details on social media,“ Hiranandani told TOI.
 
 “I wanted to bring the miscreant on the investigation agency's books. If not tracked and punished, he or she will have no fear and will continue to dupe others. In this case, the miscreant's plans are not known as we managed to pluck out the source and blocked the profiles with technical help. The miscreant has tried to get details of my company , its working, contacts and other confidential details through my friends.“
 
 Hiranandani first approached the cyber crime police station at Bandra-Kurla Complex and was directed to Powai police. He was told that Powai cops would provide technical support to them in tracking down the IP address used to create the fake accounts. While Powai police senior inspector Bhai Mahadeshwar confirmed the case, he refused to divulge the details. A case has been lodged under Indian Penal Code sections 465 (forgery), 468 (forgery for the purpose of cheating) and 471(using as genuine a forged document or electronic record) as well as section 66 (C) of the IT Act for identity theft.
 
