HUBBALI: At a time when most villages in Yalburga taluk in Koppal district are battling acute  , a noble initiative undertaken by a   to revive a lake in   has kindled hope among the people.

 Spread across 96 acres, Tallur Lake could supply enough water to irrigate 3,500 acres of agricultural land, besides being a source of drinking water for around 30 surrounding villages. However, consecutive droughts saw the lake drying up, and silt accumulating across a wide stretch of the waterbody.  , run by the star couple, Radhika Pandit and Yash ­ actors in the Kannada film industry came forward to help the villagers revive the lake.
 
 Rejuvenation of the lake has been taken up at the cost of Rs 4 crore. In a bid to revive the storage capacity of the waterbody ahead of the monsoon season, Tallur Lake is being desilted. Farmers in the village said that this would lead to an increase in the groundwater level in the surrounding areas.
 
 Ramesh Balutagi, the farm er who is supervising the lake's revival, told TOI that this wasn't the first time the Yash Marg Foundation had lent the villagers a helping hand. “The foundation supplied water through tankers for villages, which were battling shortage of drinking water,“ he said.
 
 Along with other like-mind ed farmers, Balutagi met Yash and requested him to under take revival of the lake. “Yash visited our village, and inspect ed the lake's condition,“ Balutagi said.
 
 Funds were distributed for the project through the actor's foundation, and work on the lake started on February 28. “Desilting work is going on in about 35 acres of the lake. Once the lake is revived, storage capacity of the lake will increase,“ Balu tagi said.
 
 The farmer pointed out that the people of the village had initially approached government agencies to undertake rejuvenation of the lake. “But our requests fell on deafears,“ he said.
 
 As many as 34 tractors, four tippers and as many earthmovers are currently engaged in desilting Tallur Lake. “The desilting process will be com pleted in one and a half months,“ Balutagi said.
 
