MYSURU: The members of   claimed that   stations in Mysuru are providing quality fuel in right quantities to their customers. 

 The traders held a press meet here on Friday to allay the fears about the quality of the fuel supplied by them. The meet follows a recent attack by some youths on the workers of Shourya fuel station in Periyapatna taluk, blaming them of cheating with lesser fuel than for what they paid for.
 
 Federation president H C Patil said that on February 4, a youth came with an empty pet bottle to the fuel station and got petrol for Rs 150. After sometime, he returned to the bunk and charged the employees with giving him less petrol.
 
 “The youth also summoned his friends and attacked the workers. Even after the workers asked the youths to verify the measurement from the brass jar used to measure fuel, they did not listen. The situation came under control only after police arrived and officials from weight and measurement department confirmed that the fuel measurement is accurate,” Patil said. 
 
 There are about 70 fuel stations in Mysuru city, and 400 in the district. Equipment in those stations have been completely digitalized. “The digital meters can neither be altered nor the fuel can be adulterated. This apart, mobile checking unit vans also regularly visit fuel stations and check the meters and quality of fuel. There will be cross verification from fuel company representatives, and a joint inspection by officials once in 15 days. With all the checking done regularly, there cannot be any malpractice in fuel stations,” he claimed. 
 
 AKFPT secretary Ranjith Hegde said that if customers have any doubt regarding meter reading or the quality of fuel, they can demand for measurement check. The fuel station staff will measure the fuel through brass jar kept in the station. “If the customer is still not satisfied, (s)he can register a complaint to the company officer or the authorities concerned. The contact numbers of such officers will be displayed at all fuel stations. Immediate action will be initiated if found guilty,” he said, adding: “Aggrived customers should not fight with the workers. But they, instead, should register complaint with the authorities concerned,” he requested. 
 
 HPCL VP Basavegowda said that fuel stations are doing service than running business. He also blamed the central government’s decision to use mobile wallet and POS machines at fuel stations to buy fuel. “Using mobile or POS machine is dangerous for fuel stations as they can trigger fire. We have more than 10 letters addressed to petroleum minister   not to force station owners to allow machines and mobiles in the name of cashless transaction,” he said.
 
 
