Madurai: The first-ever park for special and disabled children in Tamil Nadu, established by the Madurai Corporation with contribution from the Madurai Group Living Foundation,(MGLF) was inaugurated by state minister Sellur K Raju, on Saturday.

 The unique park has fulfilled a long-pending dream of the parents of children with special needs, as they frequently faced problems whenever they take their kids to ordinary parks, where parents of normal children used to protest their presence. Many representations were made by them seeking a special space in the parks for these children, but it was not heeded to. It was former Madurai corporation commissioner Sandeep Nanduri, who agreed to their request and the park was established in ward number 47 of zone two on the Alagarkoil Road.
 
 The corporation’s contribution to modify this park was Rs 25.30 lakh, while the MGL Foundation contributed Rs 15 lakh. It has been laid with paver blocks path, grassy patches and also has a fountain which flows into a pebbled pool, in which the children can play. The path also has a hand rail to help the children balance themselves and a room with special play equipment has also been established.
 
 Inaugurating the park, the minister said that steps are being taken to establish parks in vacant areas in the city, to prevent encroachments and also anti-social activities there. A circular to this effect was issued and accordingly, five parks were being established at a cost of Rs 2.20 crore in places which were earlier vacant. Of these, three of them were thrown open to the public on Saturday.
 
 In addition, two parks, one in ward 19 in zone 1 of the Madurai Corporation in Jai Nagar at a cost of Rs 25.55 lakh and Ellis Nagar in ward 17, at a cost of Rs 35.70 lakh were being established under the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban transformation (AMRUT), he said. These parks are provided with colourful flower plots, seating arrangements, water and toilet facility and compound walls, to ensure that both elders and children benefit from them. The minister also inaugurated newly-constructed school buildings in Pandian Nedunchezhian higher secondary school in Bibikulam constructed at a cost of Rs 43 lakh during the function.
 
 Madurai collector K Veera Raghava Rao, corporation commissioner Aneesh Sekhar, MLA V V Rajan Chellappa among others were present.
 
 
