GURUGRAM: The MCG is planning to impose a sanitation surcharge for colonies as well as individual residents who do not treat solid   at source. 

 In a meeting with resident welfare associations held on Monday, the MCG commissioner and other civic officials discussed ways to tackle the issue of solid waste management. Suggestions on better treatment of solid waste management though   at source and composting were also given at the meeting.
 
 The corporation decided to introduce a sanitation surcharge for societies and households that do not undertake segregation and composting. A senior MCG official when approached for a comment on the development said that the corporation is working on it. 
 
 “We will introduce a sanitation surcharge which will be applicable for anyone who does not segregate their waste at source and treat it. The societies which do treat their waste will be exempted from this charge,” said the official.
 
 Talking about the charge he said they have decided a bar and it will be decided within that. The project is likely to be launched by April this year.
 
 Sources said a hefty sanitation charge could be imposed on RWAs that do not undertake segregation and composting. “The surcharge will be added to individual homes in the property tax. No rebates would be levied on the property tax for those who undertake waste management but a waiver of the sanitation charge would be given out,” said one of the attenders of the meeting.
 
 Monica Khanna Gulati, who is a part of the citizen action group NCR  , feels the move is laudable and would be a big step towards the sensitisation of residents.
 
 “The move if implemented will be a big step towards conditioning residents to treat solid waste better by segregation at source and composting,” said Gulati adding that the commissioner has promised full support to RWAs for taking up composting and waste segregation at source. 
 
 Sources informed TOI that as an immediate support, the MCG would provide the funding for setting up of the compost unit. An online mechanism will also be introduced for RWAs to avail this facility.
 
 
