NAGPUR: Nearly a month after the employees provident fund organization (EPFO) started an  , the response has been discouraging so far. EPFO is dubbed to be the  . 

 Under the plan, employers can declare the number of workers so far not put on record with the agency. The penal charges for the default have been reduced to a nominal one rupee each year.
 
 However, as against a target of getting one crore fresh employees under the EPFO fold by March 31, so far declarations for only 47,000 odd workers from over 3000 establishments has been received. In Nagpur, which   and parts of Marathwada, it is 100 employees for 7 firms. The scheme was notified on January 3. 
 
 Sources in the ministry of labour said the response is too less as compared to the targets being chased by the government. 
 
 EPFO has 4 crore employees in all. In Nagpur, there are 2.75 lakh employees presently covered by the PF and there is a target to get around 55,000 new workers through the scheme. Considering the target the response is too less in the region. 
 
 The EFPO drive is in line with the income tax declaration scheme launched earlier and the current Prime Minister   (PMJKY). It is expected that given a chance the employer may come in large numbers. At present any establishment having more than 20 workers is covered under PF. But often the numbers are underreported to save money. The current drive allows the employers to come out clean by disclosing the number of employees so far not reported and avoid action.
 
 Questions have also been raised whether any employer having declared the full number of workers but has defaulted in the PF dues can take part in the scheme or not, said sources.
 
 Sources said there is a mandate to hold meetings with the employers and to convince them FR availing the scheme. 
 
 However, the response has been cold. Lack of a deterrent is expected to have left the employers indifferent said sources.
 
 Unearthing the number of undisclosed workers needs market intelligence for which the department is understaffed. Several offices have only 5 to7 inspectors who have to do the legwork for getting information. 
 
 Unless there is enough data against the employers it may be difficult to arm-twist them for taking part in the scheme, said a source.
 
 Meanwhile, the EPFO has begun another drive to include contractor workers engaged with the railways and employees under the national and state rural health missions under the PF fold.
 
 (In a nutshell) 
 
 Drive allows disclosing number employees hidden from EPFO
 
 Penal charges cut to nominal one rupee per year
 
 The target is to add one crore fresh employees in EPFO fold
 
 In Nagpur it is a target to get 55,000 new workers
 
 EPFO offices understaffed to unearth undisclosed employees 
 
 Employers indifferent due to lack of deterrence 
 
