MYSUR/BENGALURU: The   by the   for a fortnight seems to have worked, with   in   turning out in  

 The voter turnout in Nanjangud was close to 76%, according to Karnataka chief election officer Anil Kumar Jha at 7pm, while Gundlupet recorded 78%. In the 2013 assembly poll, the voting percentage in Nanjangud was 77.59% and in Gundlupet, 87.05%. Counting of votes will be held on April 13. Jha said the numbers were expected to go up by a few percentage points, with polling in nine booths of Nanjangud and 12 booths of Gundlupet continuing even after the cut-off time of 5pm. The high polling percentage is in keeping with previous election turnout patterns in the constituencies, which polled above 70% in the 2013 and 2008 elections.
 
 Polling was brisk in pockets where Dalits and Lingayats are in a majority . Congress candidates Kalale Keshavamurthy (Nanjangud) and Geetha Mahadeva Prasad (Gundlupet), and BJP nominee for Gundlupet C S Niranjan Kumar cast their votes in their villages.
 
 BJP candidate for Nanjangud, V Srinivas Prasad, who is a listed voter in Mysuru's Chamarajanagar segment, toured the booths.
 
 The high turnout was coupled with rather smooth sailing for the new voter-verifiable paper audit trail (VVPAT), intro duced for the first time in Karnataka, with no complaints from any polling station or voters, according to the EC.
 
 Sunday's high-voltage contest, with BJP state president B S Yeddyurappa camping in Nanjangud and Gundlupet for the past 25 days, and chief minister Siddaramaiah for 10 days, is being pegged as a pre-cursor to the 2018 assembly elections.
 
 The poll outcome has the potential to change the caste matrix of Congress and BJP votes, posing a challenge ahead of the 2018 assembly poll.
 
 Given that the two segments are Congress citadels, Yeddyurappa is aiming to breach them by forging an alliance of Lingayat and Dalit communities with the help of Dalit leader Srinivas Prasad, and engineering a division among OBCs, the mainstay of the ruling Congress.
 
 However, with both parties charging each other with using money and muscle power to get an edge over the other, the BJP now appears to be downgrading its chances of outright victory in both constituencies to the hope of securing at least one of the two seats. A win in both constituencies would give the Congress a boost ahead of next year's election in Karnataka, effectively the last major bastion for the grand old party .
 
 
 
 
 While chief minister Siddaramaiah camped out in Mysuru, keeping vigil on voting and enjoying the new Puneeth Rajkumar starrer at a local mall, BJP state president B S Yeddyurappa went back to his constituency of Shikaripura on Saturday afternoon. Yeddyurappa was reportedly keeping track of the voter turnout on the ground.
 
 
