HYDERABAD: Though he initially indicated he may not speak for two days,   leader  , who suffered bullet injuries under mysterious circumstances, gave a statement to Hyderabad police late Friday night, claiming two masked men, conversing in Hindi, fired at him. However, police are taking Vikram's claims with a pinch of salt.

 Vikram claimed the two alleged assailants - one covering his face with a helmet and another with a kerchief - while exiting the premises, yelled kam ho gaya. Seconds later, he slumped in pain. "The man wearing a helmet opened fire at me, while the other person was standing at a distance. First, I was hit on my hand. As I was about to fall, I turned and immediately another bullet struck me, which hit my other hand. Later, they both got on a bike, which I think is a black Pulsar and fled the location," sources in Hyderabad police, quoting Vikram's statement, told STOI. 
 
 On hearing the gun shots and the young Congress leaders' screams, Vikram's wife Shipali came down and saw him in a pool of blood. 
 
 After nearly 36 hours of investigation, the investigators strongly suspect Vikram's bullet wounds might be self-inflicted. "This is not a case of suicide, but we suspect they were self-inflicted. If he wanted to kill himself, he would have targeted vital organs. We are trying to ascertain the reason behind his decision and the corroborative evidence. Vikram was certainly under pressure to clear debt," a top officer in Hyderabad police told STOI. He also suffered losses in mining and other ventures. In the past, he had received threatening calls too, police said.
 
 "When we studied the scene of crime, we did not find any signs of someone fleeing or the kind of disturbances expected in a hypothetical case of a person attempting to kill another by opening fire," deputy commissioner of police ( ) A   said, who clarified that the gun used in the offence was not recovered. 
 
 The officials suspect that the weapon was hidden. Police had analysed Vikram's mobile and found SMSs, indicating several persons pressuring him to return the money taken by him as finance. 
 
 Police said Shipali's statement had several contradictions to the written complaint lodged by her, making the suspicion stronger on Vikram Goud. 
 
 Also, the shell of the bullet recovered from the scene of offence turned black. According to police, it (the bullet) turns black when fired from extreme close range. 
 
 Till now, neither Vikram, his wife nor his father and former minister Mukesh Goud raised any suspicions against any particular person. 
 
 On his health condition, Apollo Hospital doctors, in a statement, said: "He continues to be stable both cardiac and respiratory. Maintained on oxygen support , analgesics and other supportive care. He will be continued in the intensive care unit for further monitoring for respiratory,   complications post injury."
 
