GURUGRAM: Two  , both employees of State Bank of India, foiled a   bid by two armed men at the Gurgaon branch where they work on Tuesday.

 The robbers, according to police, entered the SBI centre, located in Badshapur, around 1pm on Tuesday after shutting the main gate. The two women, Bimla Devi and Poonam, are the only employees of the eco centre, which isn’t a full-fledged branch but allows certain financial transactions.
 
 The robbers targeted them while they were working. They took the duo hostage at gunpoint and tried to loot around Rs 2 lakh in cash. But Bimla Devi and Poonam managed to turn the tables on them. They snatched the gun from one robber and raised an alarm to prevent the duo from escaping. A few youths rushed to their help and thrashed the robbers before handing them over to police. The whole episode was caught on CCTV camera. 
 
 The SBI branch, according to police, does not have a security guard.
 
 The   — Deepak (21) and Mohit (19) — who are from Jhojhu Kala village in Haryana’s Charkhi Dadri district, came to Gurgaon around 20 days ago in search of jobs, police said. While Deepak is a graduate, Mohit has passed Class 10.
 
 “One of the robbers first came to my colleague Poonam’s desk, pushed her and took the money from a drawer. The other assailant slapped me, but I managed to snatch his gun. By then, Poonam got on her feet, turned the table on one of the robbers who attacked her and pushed him. People gathered when we raised an alarm and thrashed the robbers before handing them over to police,” said Bimla Devi, one of the women employees. Poonam said they decided to fight off the robbers though were afraid to take on them initially.
 
 Gurgaon police commissioner Sandeep Khirwar said the women would be honoured for showing exemplary courage.
 
 The accused were arrested and an FIR was registered at the Badshapur police station based on the complaint of Bimla Devi under sections 392 (robbery), 397 (robbery with attempt to cause death or grievous hurt), 459 (grievous hurt during house breaking) of IPC and 25-54-59 of Arms Act.
 
 Police said two country-made pistols were seized from the accused’s possession. “We reached the spot within five minutes after we received the information about the incident and arrested the duo. The accused confessed to have committed the crime. The court remanded them in two-day police custody. The interrogation is under way,” said inspector Rajender Singh, SHO, Badshahpur police station.
 
 
