PATNA: The state cabinet on Tuesday extended the term of the fitment committee till May 31 to assess the   recommendations in  . Earlier, the committee was stipulated to submit its report by March 31.
 
  The state cabinet had, on December 21 last year, approved the formation of the fitment committee headed by former chief secretary G S Kang. The committee was initially given three months to submit its recommendation. CM   had said the government employees would get the benefits of the 7th Pay Commission recommendations with retrospective effect from January 1 this year.
  
  Around 4.5 lakh employees and 3.5 lakh pensioners of the Bihar government will benefit from the new payscales. Earlier, the Centre had claimed its employees pay would be up 23% with the implementation of the 7th Pay Commission recommendations.
  
  In another decision, the cabinet approved the health department proposal for medical colleges at Chhapra and Purnia. Sources said the development cost of the two colleges is around Rs350 crore, out of which the Centre is to contribute Rs113 crore.
  
  In another decision, the state cabinet approved a civil aviation directorate proposal to sign a tripartite agreement to boost regional air connectivity in the state under UDAN scheme of the civil aviation ministry.
  
  Total 50 airfields across the country are proposed to be developed under UDAN, which was launched in November last year.
  
  The non-scheduled operators would enter into a tripartite agreement with   (AAI) and Bihar government to operate short-distance flights within the state. Sources said the airfare on different routes under the scheme has been fixed at Rs2,500 per passenger.
  
  There are 21 airfields in Bihar, out of which three — Bihta, Purnia and Darbhanga — are under the Indian Air Force. Nine other airfields are in ‘Kachcha and abandoned’ airfields category, including those at Jehanabad and Ara. The rest are under the category of metalled runways having reinforced cement concrete (RCC) airstrips.
  
  Sources said the state government would provide necessary infrastructure and operational requirements, including development of airstrips, passenger terminal and fire and police services for free of cost, among others.
  
  In another decision, the state cabinet approved a cabinet coordination department proposal to empanel aircraft suppliers for providing Jet aircraft for use by state government dignitaries, including chief minister. Till now, the state government used to hire aircraft on wet lease for this purpose.
