KOCHI: Kerala Vriksha Paristhidi Samrakshana   held a protest meeting on Sunday near Old railway station premises against the decision of the   to cut down over 182 trees as part of the renovation of the station. The protest began by tying green ribbons around the trees (('Pachakettu') 

 The Samithi demanded that the railways should reconsider its decision to cut down 182 trees for renovating the old railway station, located in the buffer zone of   bird sanctuary. The Samithi called for intervention of state Forest minister A K Raju and Environmental ministry in this matter.
 
 Socio - environmental activist C R Neelakandan inaugurated the protest meeting. "This is not a symbolic protest. This is a real movement to protect our environment. By tying green ribbons around trees, we are taking the responsibility to protect those trees. We see ourselves in these trees. Each tree here is a representation of each of us," he said.
 
 Mangalavanam bird sanctuary is considered to be the oxygen cylinder of our city. The tress located in Mangalavanam and its buffer zone had always been a safe haven for migratory birds. If mass cutting of trees take place it would destroy the safe haven as well as nesting ground of various birds," said C K Joy, President of Kerala Nature Protection Forum.
 
 T N Prathapan, General Secretary, Vriksha Paristhidi Samrakshana Samithi said that Southern Railway should drop its decision to cut around 182 trees for renovating and developing the old railway station.
 
 The Samithi also demanded that the historically significant Old railway station should be declared as a heritage site without causing any damage to the fragile ecosystem as well as the flora and fauna in Mangalavanam.
 
 Environmental activist and tree committee member Jacob Lazar said that development should be environment friendly. Considering the historical importance of the old railway station there is nothing wrong in making it a heritage station. But at the same time environment should also be preserved, he added.
 
 K Binu, General Secretary of Vriksha Paristhidi Samrakshana Samithi, Prof Gopalakrishna Moorthy and Samithi district co- coordinator K Biju also spoke at the meeting. The students of   unit of S H College, Thevara also attended the protest.
 
