PUNE: This summer,   is setting the stage for tourists with its  , heritage walks, saffron trails,   and more.

 Assuring a largely peaceful atmosphere in the terror-laden valley of Kashmir, the J&K Tourism has planned a whole new range of activities to woo tourists from across the country. Reviving the light and sound show, river-rafting in Sonmarg, heritage events in Kashmir and Leh-Ladakh, new trekking trails, and tapping the beauty of its 2,200 natural lakes — many of which remain unknown to tourists — are all on its agenda.
 
 J&K Tourism officials are conducting road shows across the country to instill confidence among people to visit their favourite destination.
 
 Addressing a news conference in Pune on Saturday, Mahmood Ahmad Shah, director of Tourism Kashmir, said that vacationing in J&K is not restricted to the summer months or during pilgrimage, but is year-round. In fact, travellers from the state make up as much as 40% of the total domestic tourists each year, followed by those from Gujarat, he said.
 
 He added that even as the summer months saw maximum footfall, people didn’t shy away from planning trips to the valley for spring, autumn and winter as well. “Besides tourists’ favourites Srinagar, Jammu, Gulmarg, Sonmarg, Pahalgam and Leh, we are developing new destinations such as Dodhpathri, Lolaab and Gurez valley,” he said.
 
 Director of floriculture department Mohammad Hussain Mir said that they were focussing on initiatives for sustainable and eco-friendly tourism. “We have recommended new eco-initiatives to safeguard natural environs while tourist inflow increases. A re-branded river cruise across Jhelum will include interesting activities. Tourists will get a peek into ancient areas in Srinagar city. We are also mapping around 400 old sites to be included in the heritage walks. Saffron trails across Pampore and Khistawar districts will be a new addition,” he said.
 
 House stays and interactions with the local population have been planned for visitors to get a taste of authentic Kashmiri cuisine and culture. “We also want to promote Kashmir as a wedding destination like Rajasthan, Delhi and Punjab. With a range of new hotels in the offing, Srinagar, Gulmarg and Pahalgam will top this list in the future. The adventurous ones can consider river rafting in Sonmarg or go on new trekking trails. Asia’s biggest tulip garden in Srinagar will also get better infrastructure,” he said.
 
 Mir Anwar, president of the Travel Agents Society of Kashmir said that the body, which was formed in 1967, is one of the oldest in the business with 110 tour operators as its members.
 
 Ather Yameen, secretary general of the society, said that with good infrastructure Kashmir has emerged as a meetings, incentives, conferencing, exhibitions (MICE) destination. In the last four to five years, big corporate houses have held their meetings in Srinagar, Gulmarg and Pahalgam, he said.
 
