MUMBAI: A firm which had stored currency in a bank locker to pay farmers for land acquisition is facing a probe by three agencies-Income-Tax,  . On Wednesday, the   cash in the case. The income tax was the first to get into the act after officials found bags supposedly carrying cash being removed from a bank locker in Pune.The person kept moving in and out of the bank multiple times, raising doubt, an official said.

 Officials connected with the probe said that the company wanted to set up an industry in Pune district and wanted to acquire a large chunk of land. Local farmers agreed to sell their land on the condi tion that the company pays 70% in cash and 30% by cheque. The company , Worldwide Oilfields Machine, agreed to their demand.
 
 The company , which deals in supply of spare parts to oilfields, had negotiated with farmers in Pune to purchase their land after accepting their demand (cash payment). This happened before demonetisation set in and the company had transferred Rs 20 crore from its bank account into the account of another company which re routed it back. The amount in the denominations of Rs 1,000 and Rs 500 was kept in its locker with Bank of Maharashtra in Pune.
 
 But, before the company could pay farmers, the government announced demonetisation on November 8, 2016, scrapping Rs 1,000 and Rs 500 notes. Put in a fix, the company approached a car dealer who helped the company to convert the scrapped currency into new currency through various agents who charged commission between 20% and 30%. About Rs 8 crore in new currency was transferred back to the locker, but removing it caught the attention of the income tax, which initiated a probe and froze the account. They informed the CBI and the ED about it. The CBI has registered a cheating case against the company and the ED booked it under money laundering charges. After investigation, the ED attached the money found in the bank locker along with the money recovered from other accused involved in the case.
 
