AMARAVATI:   does not put up any banner or flex, nor does he put up booths or take out rallies. He claims to win on the strength of his work and contacts with his prabhag. The staunch Shiv Sainik is seeking a fourth term to AMC house, the second time in a row as an independent candidate. Excerpts from an interview: 

 
 
 
 I won my first two elections in 2002 and 2007 as Shiv Sena candidate from Sant Gadgebaba and Engineering College prabhag. In 2012, my party was in alliance with RPI (Athawale) and my seat from Navsari ward was given to that party. So I contested as an independent and won, but supported Sena in the house. This time, MP Anand Adsul ditched me at the last moment and introduced an unknown face, even though I was the only candidate to interview for Shegaon-Rahatgaon prabhag. It hurt me and I rebelled.
 
 
 
 My prabhag is undeveloped and includes old villages, which are influential. It urgently needs broadening of Shegaon-Rahatgaon road as it is accident prone due to increased traffic. PDMC to Shegaon nullah needs flood protection wall. My voters know that I work very sincerely. They have a lot of expectations from me. Their trust in me ensures my win.
 
 
 
 
 AMC lacks good commissioners like Chandrakant Gudewar and Shyamla Shukla. Corruption is rampant with officers hand in glove with office-bearers. Further, people do not pay property tax honestly, and AMC and local MLAs do not pursue the government for grants. If at all grants come, MLAs interfere by proposing their own works, making corporators feel as if they are there only to clean drainages and sweep roads.
 
 
 
 
 It must provide basic amenities to people, develop DP roads, complete underground drainage scheme and start compost depot on priority. The dormant work of Akoli bypass must be expedited and parking places must be created. It must take decisions with foresight.
 
 
 
 
 BJP-Shiv Sena. The picture is very clear.   and   will be relegated to the third and the fourth places while BSP will gain a few seats. MIM will open its account.
 
 
