MUMBAI: The archdiocese of Bombay will legally pursue the demolition of a cross by civic officials near Bazar road in Bandra on Saturday. The demolition evoked consternation within the Catholic   and hours later, a makeshift wooden cross was installed at the site to “reassure” worshippers.

 Fr Nigel Barrett, spokesman for the archdiocese of Bombay, in a statement on Sunday said, “We understand that   had a meeting on April 3 with local communities about the cross. The officer concerned made community members aware of a Supreme Court decision on unauthorised religious structures on roads. The community representatives then presented to the BMC official their legal position and were told to submit their statements in writing.”
 
 “The   demolished is on private land (plot No. 38 at CS No. A/650). It was erected in or around 1895, 122 years ago, and has religious and historical significance,” he said.
 
 “The April 26 notice by assistant municipal commissioner Sharad Ughade refers to a PIL of 2010 pending before Bombay high court. The PIL only relates to religious structures on public property. The notice was invalid with respect to the cross demolished, as it was on private property. The owner and community organisations had replied in time to the notice and had even met Ughade with documentary evidence, including a revenue plan and property card. The legal position was explained very clearly to Ughade with supporting documents,” he added.
 
 “It disturbs us that the holy cross was demolished without due process, and despite clarifications and dialogue with BMC officials. This is gross misuse of authority and the archdiocese, in collaboration with various representative bodies, will legally pursue the matter. We hope BMC will take cognisance of this and initiate appropriate action,” he said.
 
 Local MLA Ashish Shelar has called a meeting of affected parties, including caretakers of all B-list religious structures slated for demolition, on Tuesday morning. “Since BMC’s action is based on an HC order, we will verify all facts. We will peruse the list and examine if the caretakers had received a BMC notice, if they have replied to it, and if their response is being considered by the civic authorities. If BMC is unable to consider their plea, they should get an opportunity to present their case before the HC. For that they require time,” Shelar said.
 
 Ughade said, “As per directions of the PIL, 32 temples and six crosses in B category were to be removed in H West ward. After the court order, letters were sent to the religious structures and they were requested to remove them. A meeting was also arranged with representatives of the structures along with local councillors. The court order was explained and again a request was made to remove the unauthorised structures. Accordingly, six temples were found removed. Saturday’s action was started on the remaining structures. A temple and a cross were removed. Action will continue on other structures in the category. We have followed due process of law and the list of structures to be removed has already been published.” 
 
 Bandra activist Anil Joseph said, “The archdiocese, as governing body of   in Mumbai, must collect documents of all legal heritage crosses from each parish and provide it to BMC. It must not leave the matter to lay persons and community groups. The archdiocese commands certain trust, so there will be a finality to the legality of these crosses.” 
 
