

 The Adugodi police have launched a bovine hunt to nab a cow that attacked a 55-year-old woman near her house inside the police quarters on Hosur-Lashkar Road. The woman, whose son is a head constable in the city police commissionerate, had to undergo surgery for a dislocated shoulder.
 
 Adugodi and its adjoining areas - Lalji Nagar, Lakkasandra, Vinayakanagar, Jalakanteshwara Nagar, Ayyappa Garden, and Mahalingeshwara Layout - have many domestic cows. The police are now looking to identify the one that attacked Bhagyamma, who is yet to recover and help with the identification.
 
 A few days ago, Bhagyamma, a resident of Adugodi police quarters, near the City Armed Reserve South office, was on her way home around 2.30 pm, after picking up her granddaughter from school. The cow attacked her from behind and she fell down. Then it kicked her several times. “It kicked her head on the head and she started bleeding profusely.
 
 When she started screaming for help, residents of the police quarters came to her rescue and shooed away the cow. Her son, P Raju, who works in the police department, was returning home around the same time and saw the crowd. When he went closer, he saw his mother lying in a pool of blood. He immediately took her to St John's Hospital, where she is undergoing treatment. She has undergone surgery for a dislocated shoulder. The woman's statement was taken at the hospital before a duty doctor. The woman had sought action against the cow's owner for negligently leaving it on the streets,“ said an officer.
 
 Most cows in the city are left on the streets by their owners and the animals not only scavenge on roadside garbage, but also pose a risk to motorists and block traffic. By evening, these cows return to their sheds.
 
 “My mother has been discharged and she is doing okay. A complaint has been registered in this regard and the police are yet to trace the cow and punish its owner,“ said the son, P Raju.
 
 The Adugodi police have registered a case of causing hurt by endangering life or personal safety of others under Section 337 of the Indian Penal Code against the owner of the cow.
 
 An officer said: “The woman couldn't see the cow properly as she fell down and covered her face while it attacked her. Luckily, her granddaughter escaped unhurt. She had pushed her out of the way. It is a peculiar case. We might even have to bring some cows and parade them in front of the woman like an `identification parade'. Once we know which one it was, the animal will have to be seized and the mat ter will go to the court.“
 
 Incidents of cattle aggression aren't exactly new in Bengaluru but this case sticks out as a sore thumb since the police are looking for the cow even as over 30,000 cases are pending investigation or have been closed due to lack of evidence. And what the cow did can best be described as animal instinct.
 
