Patna: RJD chief   Prasad on Sunday said BJP’s Unnao MP Sakshi Maharaj is a ‘lafandar’ (ruffian) and he should be sent to jail by invoking certain provisions of the Goondas Act against him.

 “Sakshi Maharaj is not a saint. He is a ‘lafandar’. He should be sent to jail under the Goondas Act,” Lalu said while reacting over the Unnao MP’s controversial statement in which he accused a particular community of increasing the country’s population.
 
 Lalu also said some people in the country were continuously making controversial statements with an aim to disturb the cohesive environment. “Sakshi Maharaj is one of them,” he said.
 
 Addressing a public meeting at Meerut in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh on Friday, Sakshi had said, “This population rise is not because of the Hindus. Population has increased due to those who support the concept of four wives and 40 children.” The BJP MP was speaking at a function to inaugurate a temple, where he urged the government to implement a uniform civil code (UCC).
 
 While clarifying his remarks, Sakshi Maharaj later denied seeking vote in the name of religion. “It was a gathering of ‘sadhus and saints’ where political workers were not present. I did not seek vote during my speech.” However, majority of the opposition parties in the country have condemned Sakshi’s remark, saying it was a violation of the election commission’s model code of conduct.
 
 Sakshi’s controversial speech came merely two days after the Election Commission announced the dates for polling in five states, including Uttar Pradesh. A few days ago, the Supreme Court ruled that no politician or political party would be allowed to seek vote in the name of religion.
 
 Reacting over Sakshi’s remarks, Bihar Pradesh Mahila Congress general secretary Vinita Jha said, “The Election Commission should take a suo moto cognisance of his hate speech.”
 
 Jha also demanded from the BJP’s central leadership to take necessary action against Sakshi. “BJP is trying to disturb communal harmony in the poll-bound Uttar Pradesh with an aim to polarize the votes in the assembly polls,” she alleged. 
 
 
