In the latest episode of  , Abhi ( ) is seen crying in front of Purab (Vin Rana). He tells him that Pragya ( ) had promised him to return and had said that no matter what happens, they would stay together. Abhi hopes that Pragya will soon return, and the latter decides to bring Pragya's body, so that Abhi can come out of the shock.
 
  Tanu ( ) calls up Nikhil and asks him if he knows that Pragya is dead? He says that he knows that she is dead, but Abhi is still alive and he killed the commando, but nothing would happen to him as he did this in self defence.
  
  Sarla reaches the Mehra house and starts shouting at everyone. She starts accusing Dadi and the rest for killing Pragya. She asks Dadi to call Tanu and Alia in front of her, because it is because of them that her daughter died. Mitali goes and informs Alia and Tanu about the same. As the two friends are celebrating their success, Mitali comes and tells that Pragya's mom has come to their house in anger.
  
  Sarla starts accusing Tanu of killing her daughter, when the latter asks Sarla to shut up. She says she shouldn't accuse them for her loss, but God for giving her such a fate. Tanu keeps shouting at her, and dadi tries to stop her from saying all such words in front of Sarla. Alia stops dadi and says that she has a few days left of her life she should be quiet or else be prepared to spend rest of her days in old age home.
  
  Later, Sarla threatens the two that she would tell everything to Abhi and as she starts shouting out his name. Tanu and Alia start pushing her out of the house. Just then Abhi comes to the stairs and stops them from even coming near Sarla. Alia and Tanu start giving their clarification, but a teary-eyed Abhi asks them to shut up. Alia asks Abhi to throw Sarla out of the house, when he slaps her.
  
  Abhi tells them that he has regained his lost memory and the two of them should be thrown out instead. Alia and Tanu are shocked and he reminds them of the time when they had tried to kill Pragya in an accident, but he sat in the car and he met with an accident. Abhi asks both of them to leave his family and his house. Abhi and Purab pack their stuff and bring their suitcases asking them to leave their house.
  
  
 
  
  Post that, there is a leap on the show and Abhi is seen waking up with Pragya by her side, but as soon as he gets up, he sees Dadi sitting beside him. He tells her that he had a nice dream, but doesn't reveal whom he saw in his dream. Dadi knows that he can think of no one else but Pragya. It is Pragya's birthday and Abhi says he will celebrate it for her.
  
  Dadi goes to Dasi and tells her about what happened. The latter says it is not good for him to keep a hope of Pragya's return. Mitali calls Alia and tells her about the same.
  
  Alia and Tanu are seen at Nikhil's house. Alia is telling Tanu about what happened at Mehra house, when police breaks in and says that it's good that they found all suspects at one place.
  
  Keep watching this space for more updates. Kumkum Bhagya airs on Zee TV at 9 pm, Monday to Friday.
  
  
 
  
  
 
