NASHIK: Constant demands for money from her  , Manish Girase, cost Jyoti Pawar her life.

 Manish, stabbed Jyoti to death and then lit her body on fire at a desolate place near the foothills of Kaar near Vasali village under the Satpur   station in December last year. 
 
 The police managed to crack the case only after the victim’s mother sought help from them on Wednesday. 
 
 After Manish was arrested by the city police, he admitted to have killed Jyoti as she was demanding money from him ever since they started living together.
 
 Earlier, the police could not make any headway in the case since the body could not be recognised and no formal missing complaint was lodged. “The mother of the victim came searching for her in the city which enabled the police to get a lead in the case. Jyoti, who had been separated from her husband, was killed by her paramour Manish,” police commissioner Ravinder Singal said on Thursday.
 
 The Satpur police had registered a case of   against an unidentified person after the half burnt body was recovered on December 17, last year. Since then the police has been searching for details of every missing  .
 
 It was only on Wednesday, after Jyoti’s mother, who stays in Rajkot, came to Nashik searching for her daughter as she had not called home in three months. Jyoti’s mother sought help from the police in tracing her daughter. “We gave a description of the body that we found from the forest area three months back and she identified it. It was only after that, that we came to know about Manish and arrested him,” a Satpur police official said.
 
 Jyoti was married and living in the Satpur area with her two children and husband, who was working in a corporate organisation. She was in an illicit relationship with Manish for the last two-and-half-years. Manish too, lived in the same area.
 
 When Jyoti’s husband learnt about their illicit relationship, he dropped her and the children off at Jyoti’s maternal parent’s home in Surat. The parents tried to intervene and resolve the issue, but Jyoti declared that she would not return to her husband and live with Manish instead. She left the children in Surat and moved to Nashik in July last year.
 
 After this, Jyoti was always in touch with her mother. Since she had not called in three months, Jyoti’s mother rushed to Nashik in a panic.
 
