pic x/hires/lungteam

 Times News Network
 
 Chandigarh: The first-ever lung transplant in a government hospital in the country was performed at PGI on Tuesday. As both the lungs were transplanted, the surgery took almost 12 hours where the cadaveric lung was harvested and placed inside the recipient.
 
 A 34-year-old woman from Sangrur, Punjab, who was suffering with interstitial lung disease — an end stage liver disease — was the recipient. She received the lungs of a 22-year-old accident victim from Moga in Punjab.
 
 “My wife has been using an oxygen cylinder on a daily basis. She feels breathless even while being seated. So we agreed for this last option of transplant,” said Prithpal Singh, husband of the lung recipient.
 
 The retrieval of the organs, including the lung, started at 1.30 am on Tuesday, when the donor was shifted to the operation theatre.
 
 Professor Jagat Ram, director, PGI, said, “Despite cadaver donor organ transplants picking up at a consistent pace in different pockets in the country, lung transplants are still very uncommon. This is partly because the surgery is complex and technically demanding and also because there are not too many usable lungs. PGI not only surpasses the 27 number of cadaver organ donations of last year but also has to its credit the first in public sector hospitals in lung transplant surgery in India.”
 
 The approval for the transplant was given to the institute in 2013. “Due to non-availability of a perfect matching donor-recipient, we had been waiting to perform this transplant since long. The patient will be monitored in the ICU for another 10 days or so. There is a risk period and a common complication is disruption of the airway, besides the organ rejection,” said Dr Rana Sandip Singh, a cardiovascular and thoracic surgeon, PGI.
 
 The cost of the transplant in a private set up is around Rs 45 lakh, while it can be available for Rs 6 lakh to Rs 10 lakh at OGI. However, all the cost of this first lung transplant is being borne by the institute.
 
 Professor D Behera, head, department of pulmonary medicine, said, “For over one year, we have been closely monitoring the recipient. The entire team involved in the process has made it happen. PGI is also financially supporting the recipient for the procedure.”
 
 The operation on the recipient started around 5am and ended by 2.30 pm on Tuesday. “The patient will be put on immunosuppressor drugs. The success rate for a lung transplant is 50% for the first five years,” said Dr Ashutosh Aggarwal, pulmonary medicine department.
 
 Box:
 
 Step by step
 
 One of the lobes of lung is taken out from the recipient. The procedure takes a while due to diseased condition of the lungs which are stuck close to the chest wall.
 
 The patient is put on heart lung bypass machine
 
 The donor's lung, which has been retrieved, is stored in a cold solution and packed in ice slush
 
 The lung is placed inside the recipient while stitching the connecting arteries with heart.
 
 Similarly, the next lobe of the lung is placed and stitched
 
 
