Nagpur: Minister of state (MOS) for home Dr   got respite from the Nagpur bench of the  , on Monday, when it rejected a plea challenging the clean chit granted to him by the anti-corruption bureau (ACB) from allegations disproportionate assets and benami properties.

 The plea was listed before a division bench comprising justice   and justice Indira Jain. The state home department, enforcement department, registrar general of stamps and registration, Akola collector and the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) were the respondents.
 
 The petition was filed by   through counsels Shrirang Bhandarkar, Ravindra Pande, and Dhanashree Wadpalliwar alleging that the minister amassed disproportionate assets and benami properties as a public servant between 1991 and 2004. 
 
 The ACB failed to probe the complaint against Dr Patil for acquiring assets worth over Rs58.37 lakh which is found to be 486% more than his known sources of income. This huge surge in his wealth came when he was a medical officer.
 
 The court had sought income tax details of the minister from 1992 to 2004, but the tax authorities stated that they delete all old records. The judges then stated that case of disproportionate assets and benami properties couldn’t be made out without documentary proof, before rejecting the plea.
 
 In December, Patil he was forced to tender an unconditional apology by the court regarding a contempt plea filed by Nirmal Ujwal Credit Co-operative Society. After he failed to respond to the court’s directives, a bailable warrant was issued against him asking him to pay Rs10,000.
 
 The petitioner had demanded a multi-agency probe and registration of offence against the minister, arguing that ACB wouldn’t probe him, as he was having charge of Home Department. However, the government opposed him contending that he had no locus to file it. It accuses petitioner of having a habit of lodging similar complaints against Patil and his family members out of personal enmity. The complaint was examined by the ACB and was found to be totally baseless, she claimed while seeking dismissal of the petition.
 
 
