NEW DELHI:  , the daughter of slain Armyman, Captain Mandeep Singh, was angry for a good part of her childhood. She had come to blame  , and in turn Muslims, for her father’s death. Then she had a change of heart that made her from a hater into a soldier of peace, just like her father. 

 She detailed this experience in a video released in April last year. After the Ramjas attack, though, she started a campaign against   that received a lot of mileage. But one shot from this old video shifted the course of the debate to her “nationalism”: the bit where she said Pakistan didn’t kill her father, war did. The video was directed by Voice of Ram, a group of individuals working to push for peace between India and Pakistan. 
 
 “Gurmehar is a part of my team and we worked together in April when she told her story through the video. It is a series of placards which detail her life. She used the same concept to protest the violence. There is no connection between the two, except the person holding those placards,” said Ram Subramaniam, the founder of Voice of Ram. He works on AAP projects, but clarified that Kaur isn’t involved with the party at all. 
 
 “I remember how much I used to hate Pakistan and Pakistanis because they killed my dad. I used to hate Muslims too because I thought all Muslims are Pakistanis,” read the sheets Kaur holds in the video. "When I was six years old, I tried to stab a lady in a burqa...because for some strange reason I thought she was responsible for my father's death. My mother held me back and made me understand... Pakistan did not kill my dad, war did," Kaur says in the four-minute clip through placards. 
 
 She tries to drive home the point that despite being the daughter of a martyr, she has abandoned hate, and that the government of both countries must “stop pretending and solve the problem”. 
 
 The video was very well received, evoking similar videos from youth in Pakistan. Fayaz Khan, a Pakistani settled in Australia, in a similar video, empathised with Kaur for her loss, explaining how going to Australia, he learnt to treat Indians like his own and slowly became very close friends with them. He also narrated his own ordeal in his violence-ridden hometown of Swat.
 
 Several such videos have floated on the internet, created by Pakistanis living there or abroad. But in India, Kaur’s statement on war killing her father led to her being ridiculed by the likes of   and Randeep Hooda. She has received rape threats online. “It is shameful that a girl who is working towards the safety of women on campus is herself sent rape threats. She had to leave the city because the situation was making her uncomfortable,” said Ram.
 
 He added, “It is the invasion of campus politics that is dangerous. Yes, students should be actively involved in the process of thinking and questioning, but the involvement of politicians on the campus level is dangerous.”
 
 Kaur’s teacher Shernaz Cama of LSR College was worried at how “just one shot of a very sensitively made video” was taken out of context to target her.
 
