BENGALURU: The government has finally   for the special   for land grabbing cases, but the   has not yet transferred cases to it, and the government is yet to decide on the pay scale of judges.

 On December 31, 2016, the government released Rs. 2.5 crore to the Karnataka Land Grabbing Prohibition Special Court to create infrastructure such as furniture, computers and vehicles and pay office staff. However, there is still no word on the salary of the five judges.
 
 “Funds to the tune of Rs. 2.5 crore have been granted. Regarding the salary of judges, the finance department has to clear service conditions before deciding on the pay scale of the judges,” said Dharmapuri Ramaswamy, registrar of the special court.
 
 The government constituted the special court in March 2016 after coming under fire for inaction against land grabbers and encroachment of 41,000 acres of government land, including lake beds and storm water drains. The government appointed retired high court judge H N Narayana as the chairman.
 
 “The government seems have had forgotten about the court after half-heartedly constituting it. We are in court without salary and without cases to hear,” said a judge of the special court.
 
 The special court has four judges, apart from the chairman, two judicial members and two revenue members. The judges are seeking pay on par with members of Karnataka Administrative Tribunal.
 
 “The proposal on the pay of judges is pending with the finance department,” said the registrar.
 
 The revenue department got legislative approval for the special grant during the recently-held Belagavi session.
 
 Justice Narayana said the special court was currently dealing with some private petitions and a few suo moto cases. “We can’t sit idle. The court is hearing over 200 private petitions and 50 suo moto cases,” said Narayana.
 
 The government’s indifference has left activists seething. “The government claims it is acting tough on land grabbers, but it is not doing enough to support the special court,” said former MLA A T Ramaswamy, who headed a house committee that submitted a report on government land encroachments.
 
 
