GHAZIABAD: A housing society in   has issued standing orders against foreign   seeking rented accommodation. A signboard at the entrance to Ajnara Gen X society reads, “Bachelors & Students,   are not allowed as Tenant in this society”.

 There are many societies in the city which debar   and students from seeking rented accommodation but Ajnara Gen X has added ‘foreigners’ to this list of debarred categories of prospective  .
 
 There are many   in the society itself which are against this discriminatory practice but there is a powerful lobby in the society at whose behest the signboard has come up and they actually see to it that it is followed.
 
 Puja Srivastava, a resident, said, “This signboard is there for a year now but in the backdrop of recent developments in which residents and RWAs in Noida had an ugly confrontation with African nationals it is being followed strictly.”
 
 Srivastava, who was president of the defunct RWA of the society, said, “We strongly oppose this but within the society there is a section of ‘influential’ people which is having its way.”
 
 Pratuyush Kumar, another resident said, “This is a kind of apartheid that is being practised in our society which is both legally and ethically wrong. According to the law, there can be no discrimination on the basis of one’s nationality as long as the basic legal obligations are fulfilled by the tenant,” Kumar said.
 
 “It is unfortunate that there are some members in the society who are highly prejudiced against people from African countries and this embargo is actually aimed at them,” Kumar said.
 
 When this correspondent asked around, no one in the society knew who had put up the signboard. “In the absence of an RWA, the society’s maintenance is being looked after by one Surjit Singh and he might be in a position to reveal who was responsible for the display of those signboards,” Srivastava said.
 
 Meanwhile, when maintenance manager Singh was contacted, he simply replied tersely, “Khud hi pata kar lo” (You find out for yourself). On being asked again, Singh hurled abuses on the phone.
 
 
