NOIDA: Tina Dayal, wife of Vinod Dayal resident of C 83, sector 44 where the robbery bid occured on Sept 6 leading to the death of guard Bhanu Kishore Sharma (who died taking a gun shot while attempting to nab one of the three fleeing assailants) is upset at media reports targeting the Dayal family for their inconsiderate attitude towards the family of the deceased. 

 Speaking to TOI, Tina shared that there's nothing of the sort as the family is undergoing immense trauma what with one senior member turning blind with the injury, another (the house maid) suffering from a broken nose and requiring a surgery in coming days, while Vinod Dayal the head of the family still under recovery from last year's open heart surgery and a physically and mentally challenged younger sister - all mostly senior citizens. That they have all intentions of helping the deceased guard's family but only after they've managed to take care of the injured and ailing at home. 
 
 However, the Dayal family as they are known by now following the Sept 6 incident at their ground floor rented accomodation in sector 44, gave Rs 20,000 on Friday as their part of contribution towards the compensation amount which is being collected by sector RWA for the deceased guard Sharma's family.
 
 Recounting the ordeal of Sept 6 55-year-old Tina maintained that two men disguised as plumbers broke into their house in the afternoon. "At that moment my old mother Umi Dhawan 81, sister Mini Dhawan 52 who is physically and mentally challenged and like a small child and maid  , 35, were alone at home. I got a call from my mother asking me whether I had sent two plumbers. I told her not to open the door. At that moment my mother screamed as if hit by something heavy. I immediately left the office in an autorickshaw from sector 18 to sector 44. On the way, I called up my brothers, a tailor   and a washerman Anil, who sits at the corner of the road to our home and the neighbour’s guard Sharma. I also called our RWA president Mr   and Akhilesh, a worker in our office to reach the house at the earliest," said Tina.
 
 She goes on "The people I had called up on my way home entered the house risking their lives. First was the tailor, followed by Akhilesh, then the washerman Anil. They saw my mother lying unconscious on the ground with blood oozing out from her left eye which is now totally blind. The maid was strangled with the rope and badly injured and the whole house was ransacked. The neighbour's guard Sharma, remained at the gate and did not enter the house. While running out, the two burglars were caught by Sharma and Akhilesh. One burglar shot the guard. The next day the guard’s family left for their village for his cremation which was arranged by the owner of the house he was working in" said Tina.
 
 Since then Tina claims her life has become a nightmare as she flitted between hospitals - AIIMS, Apollo etc for her mother and maid's treatment. While mother Umi Dhawan has lost vision in left eye due to rupture of nerves from the hit she took from the burguler's gun, the x ray and scan shows damaged nerves with black blood all over. "Dr   from AIIMs told us that nothing can be done and that they are now concentrating on ensuring that infection does not spread any further," said Tina who adds that her mother is practically blind now as there's little vision in right eye. "Since she was old, she used to mostly watch TV and cartoons. But she can't even do that now and has become dependant on us completely with no vision."
 
 The maid Savitri needs surgery for her broken nose which the Dayals are in the process of arranging after ensuring first aid treatment to her.
 
 Her 67-year-old husband Vinod Dayal has not stepped out of the house since Sept 6 despite the requirement of regular check up post his open heart surgery in Apollo hospital last year in October. "From 90 % blockage and 20 % working, his heart has only improved to 30 % working post surgery due to daily walks and diet which has now stopped completely. He constantly fears the ring of a doorbell or the telephone," said Tina.
 
 While all this was underway, on September 13, a huge crowd from the guard's village with media gathered in front of Dayal's ground floor house in sector 44 with the brother of the deceased guard who aggressively demanded compensation money for his death. "When I told him that I knew  , the deceased guard’s wife, and will give whatever help that I can to her, he insisted immediate settlement as a compensation for his brother’s death. When I did not open the gate fearing another attack and simultaneously assured him gently, that I will meet the guard’s wife Gudia, he threatened me that he will remove both my eyes. Later, on calling 100 police came even as the siege of my house lasted for three hours," said Tina who's appealed for police protection from SSP Love Kumar and also written to district magistrate B N Singh and UP chief minister for relief from harassment from the demands of the deceased guard's brother.
 
 "My whole family is suffering and feels threatened even to move out. Our misery is multiplied by the unjust demands of the brother of the guard who is harassing us. The burglars, two men and one woman have been caught and one is still absconding. I am thankful to Noida police for arresting the culprits on that day itself and grateful that they came immediately on calling 100 number," said Tina.
 
