LUCKNOW: A simple presser thrown by   used to be enough to clog the Vikramaditya Marg. But the typical hullaballoo around the ruling party went missing here on Saturday as Modi brigade trampled the ‘UP ke ladke’. At around 9 am, when the first set of trends for the state came in, several khadi-clad supporters, dawning the Samajwadi ‘topi’, were seen watching election results on a LED TV fitted van. 

 In no time, several media persons joined them and started giving live PTC (piece to camera). But the road was wearing a   look. SUVs came in, halted for a few seconds to assess the situation and then went away. Some even got down and walked up to the party office gate, but returned in no time. Policemen deployed there were quick to conclude the changing times. "Parivartan ki bela hai..." remarked one of them. 
 
 The fragrance of insense sticks and ‘havan samagri’ drew the nose and took it to a small Hanuman Temple, about 50 metres away from the SP office. A party worker was quietly submitting ‘ahutis’ into the fire amidst the echo of Sundar Kaand (a religious chapter on the deity) paath. Photographs of Akhilesh Bhaiya and Dimple Bhabhi were placed before the deity to invoke his blessings. "I am praying for our party's victory," said the devotee Ram Avtaar Yadav, a native of Azamgarh. 
 
 Asked if he had seen the trends indicating BJP's landslide victory in UP, he said, "Yes I have, but they are trends. I will not lose hope till the results are declared." By 1 pm, trends grew stronger and SP's nosedive became a fact which disheartened a handful of supporters who were hoping against hope. In the evening, CM Akhilesh Yadav invited reporters to his official residence 5 Kalidas Marg for one last time. 
 
 As Akhilesh told the media that he had accepted the verdict, a pall of gloom descended on the party office. An hour later, drizzle made a few pedestrians find shade near the office. One of them Mohan Kumar remarked, "Indra dev bhi khush hain kamal ke khilne se. (Even the rain god is happy with the blooming of lotus)." 
 
 
