Internationally acclaimed Iranian filmmaker  , most known in India for his film Children of Heaven, is making his first movie based in India, and guess who he chose as the lead actress? 

 Malayalam actor  ! Reportedly,  ,   and even Kangana were considered for the role, which finally went to Malavika, after a “look test’’, says the actress. “It happened very fast. I sent Majid my photographs and he saw the character in me. I think it didn’t matter to him whether I was a star or a newcomer.”
 
  On the lines of Children of Heaven, the movie will be based on a brother-sister relationship, and has been titled Beyond the Clouds. Ishan Khatter, Shahid Kapoor’s step-brother, will be doing the role of the brother, while Bengali filmmaker Goutam Ghose also does a prominent role. AR Rahman will be composing the music while Vishal Bharadwaj writes the dialogues. Majid himself has written the story. “It feels great, I’m working with a bunch of geniuses,” says an excited Malavika, who has started shooting for the movie, in Jaipur.
 
 Revealing more details on her role, Malavika’s mother says, “The film is not a love story; the focus is on the siblings’ bond, on human relationships in general. It will be a grown-up version of Children of Heaven, set in Mumbai. Malavika plays Tara, a poor girl from a dhobi ghat. So for the interview with Majid, Malavika went wearing some old clothes to look the part! It is a film with plenty of acting possibilities. In the story, the brother and sister get separated owing to circumstances, and they find ways to connect with each other. The film will be made for an international audience like all of Majid’s films, but he wanted the local flavour which is why it is made in Hindi.”
 
  Malavika who has acted in Malayalam films like Pattam Pole and Nirnayakam, has   starrer   coming up. The Mumbai-based actress says, “I have been doing Malayalam movies but of course I want to do Bollywood eventually, just because it reaches out to a larger audience. But I never thought I’d do a film with Majid Majidi. It is definitely something special.”
 
 
