JAIPUR/ALWAR: Shivering   on Monday took its toll on 40-year-old   who had gone to provide   in his farm at   under   area of   district. 

 The continued dense fog also affected normal life and the air, road and rail traffic in the state. 
 
 Ill-fated farmer Prem Chand had gone to his farm in the morning during early hours at 4 am. While he was watering the crops in the farm, he suddenly fainted. He was rushed to a nearby hospital where he was declared brought dead.
 
 "It is a clear death due to cold as the team of doctors who had conducted post mortem too opined this. The family members had though alleged that he was murdered, no injury or strangulation marks were witnessed on his body," said a senior police officer of Ucchain police station of Bharatpur. 
 
 Family members said that the deceased Prem Chand was not wearing proper woollens while he had gone to water the crops in the morning. 
 
 Likewise, the dense fog continued to affect road, rail and air traffic in the state. At least 13 trains coming to Jaipur were running late while a few early morning flights got delayed due to fog. Passengers at the railway station and terminal 2 of Jaipur airport were seen into verbal spat with the railways and airport staff for the poor communication on arrivals and departures of respective trains and flights. On the other hand the vehicles on the highways connecting Jaipur to Churu, Jaipur to Delhi and Jaipur to Agra were moving in slower pace due to the dense fog and poor visibility. 
 
 Jaipurities witnessed a chilly morning as a minimum temperature of 9.8 degrees Celsius was recorded. People in the pink city especially the morning walkers witnessed dense fog during early morning hours which started vanishing from 10 pm onwards. 
 
 Phalodi (Jodhpur) remained coldest in the state where a minimum temperature of 6 degrees Celsius was recorded. It was followed by Udaipur where a minimum temperature of 6.6 degrees Celsius was recorded, Sriganganagar 7.5, Jaisalmer 8.2, Jodhpur 9.1, Pilani 9.5, Churu 9.6, Barmer 9.7, Ajmer 11.3, Bikaner 12.2 and a minimum temperature of 12.6 degrees Celsius was recorded in Kota.
 
 
