KANNUR: A uniform made using ultraviolet-resistant material designed by  , a student of the   ( ) here will be on display along with several innovative student designs as part of their annual graduation show -Tantu-2017 -on May 26. 

 The show featuring 33 textile designers of NIFT will be held at  . The uniform designed by Naureen for traffic police personnel, apart for protection from UV rays has features that would bring down heat by increasing air circulation.
 
  It was her concern over the hardships faced by traffic police and labourers working in the fields like mining and construction that made her think of the product, said Naureen.
 
 Though UV-resistant fabrics are already available in the market, they are costly and it is not economically feasible to use them for uniforms. The method employed by her will bring down the cost considerably, and a pair of trousers and shirt will cost only around Rs 1,500, said Sakeena Naureen, who did the laboratory experiments needed to design the product at   (CUSAT).
 
 "The UV resistance of the fabric was increased by dipping it in a solution of zinc oxide and titanium dioxide in specific quantities, and the result was amazing," she said. Though both these compounds are used to resist UV radiation, the use of such a combination has not been attempted before in her knowledge, she said.
 
 Even after 70 washes, the cotton fabric retained the UV resistance quality and further research and innovations can increase it, said Naureen, who developed the product under the guidance of Manuprasad Mathew, assistant professor and centre coordinator at the fashion design department of NIFT.
 
 The uniforms have been designed to provide air circulation by creating vents without affecting the look and feel, she said. Also, facilities like water bottle hanger, pocket to insert notepad and pen have been added.
 
 There have been several technological advancements in the field of nanotechnology like dyeability, wrinkle-free organic dyes and smart technology. Introduction of new material with a mixture of two nano composites and a nano finishing technology featuring UV protection and antimicrobial feature would be useful for workers exposed to the sun. It can be redesigned for the use of the labourers in the field like mining and construction, she said.
 
 The product is affordable and the government can consider it while thinking about changing the uniform of traffic police, said Manuprasad Mathew.
 
