Manickam (name changed), a 15-year-old boy from the city who was involved in a murder case last year, scored 64 per cent marks in his 10th board examination this year. Had he been lodged in an observation home, as is the practice in such cases, he wouldn’t have written the examination. However, the   Justice Board decided to give him bail early on the condition that he regularly came to the board to prepare for the examination. That changed his life and he was able to clear the examination with 320 marks despite not attending school.

 Most juveniles come into conflict with law due to their circumstances and inadequate care from their parents, feels the Madurai district child protection unit (DCPU). It believes that these children could merge with the mainstream given a chance. As part of this effort, a three-day orientation programme for juveniles in conflict with law is being conducted in Madurai. Around 20 juveniles will attend the programme, a first-of-its-kind in the state organised jointly by Madurai district administration, NGOs and bank officials. The programme would endeavour to identify their area of interest and train them accordingly. After the three months training, they will also facilitate employment opportunities or help them become self-employed. 
 
 Principal district judge R Tharani, addressing the children in conflict with law and their parents, said that parents should take responsibility for what their children had become now. They should monitor their wards closely and keep them off bad friendship. Often, alcoholism led the juveniles to crime as they had lot of energy and were ignorant about ways to channelise it.
 
 Madurai district collector K Veera Raghava Rao said that the programme was being organised to rehabilitate the children and give them a decent life. He urged them to make full use of the opportunity.The juveniles in conflict with law have expressed interest in various activities like catering and bakery, electrical work, arc-welding and setting up shops. Some of them are willing to continue their studies too. The required skills would be imparted to them and help provided for those who want to study, said P M Stalin of Key Trust Foundation.
 
 Chief judicial magistrate L S Sathya Moorthy, principal magistrate, juvenile justice board R Gayathiri and Madurai district child protection officer M Viviliaraja took part in the inauguration of the orientation programme.
 
 
