PUNE: Not just March, but April too is expected to be hotter than normal this year.

 As per the   (IMD)  , the average temperature rise in April this year could be over one degree celsius. “Northwest India is expected to record hotter temperature than normal, followed by west and central parts of the country,” it said.
 
 The outlook said above normal temperatures are likely over most parts of India during February, March and April season this year. The long-range forecast showed that  , including Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, Delhi among others, may witness 1.5°C to 2°C higher than normal average temperature during these months. 
 
 “The temperature in west and   may be above normal by 0.5°C to 1°C during these three months,” the outlook added.
 
 The forecast for country’s average monthly temperature departures showed that the average temperature in India during April this year could be warmer by as much as 1°C to 1.25°C.
 
 An earlier climate outlook by the IMD had indicated above normal average temperature during February and March over all of the South Asian countries, with ‘extreme temperature departure’ of around 1°C most likely over India (except for south peninsular India) among other countries.
 
 A senior IMD official told TOI that even in the current season, apart from some snowfall activity in Jammu and Kashmir, there has been no significant snowfall in other northern regions of the country. 
 
 “Central India continues to remain warm. Clear skies over most parts of the country have been causing solar radiation to directly enter various regions, increasing the warming effect. The forecast indicated higher than normal average temperature in northwest India because this is the region that experiences frequent heat wave conditions in the summer season. Regions in central parts of the country may also remain warmer than normal as they are in the interiors and away from the ocean,” the official added.
 
 Already, the maximum temperature has been above normal by 3.1 degrees to five degrees at most places over Rayalaseema, Chhattisgarh, Marathawada and Madhya Maharashtra among other regions in the country. 
 
 It has been above normal by 1.6 degrees to 3 degrees at most places over Punjab and at many places over Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi.
 
