Ahmedabad: Std XII students of Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) were all smiles as they walked out of the examination centre on the first day of thei board exams on Thursday.

 The exams started with English paper which most Std XII students found easy and based on their textbook.
 
 On question in the examination was the write for or against on the topic, “Is it cruel to put stray dogs to sleep?” Students were also asked to write a letter requesting chairperson of an NGO to release funds for blackboard replacement. Another question asked the examinees to write a speech on the festival of Holi, highlighting the how and why of celebrating the festival.
 
 For Prakhar Sinha, a Std XII student of St Kabir, the paper was extremely easy. “I completed it well in time and even utilized 5-10 minutes that remained in revising.” He is confident of scoring over 90 marks.
 
 Soem students found the paper lengthy. Neil Trivedi, Std XII student of Delhi Public School, said that the the paper was undoubtedly lengthy. “But I am confident of scoring over 90 marks,” he said. “I enjoyed writing an essay on the topic, ‘Fair complexion is still an obsession and how a beautiful mind is better than a fair complexion’.
 
 In the morning, as the examination began, parents were up for surprise when the observers asked the students to remove their watches, give bags to their parents and also send back water bottles which were not transparent. Even compass boxes that were opaque were to be given away.
 
 A parent said that such instructions were not given in the school or not even mentioned on the hall ticket. “My son was forced to take a pen and other stationary in his hand. We could see he fount it difficult to handle. Even the writing pad that was not transparent was not allowed,” the parent said.
 
 He further said that the school should have at least one corner where a student is allowed to deposit his bags and other things. Imagine a situation if the student comes alone to take the exam and there is no one to keep his bag for him, the parent said. 
 
 Another parent said that if digital watches were not allowed it was understandable. “But what was wrong with analog watches? The student should be allowed to wear analog watches,” he said.
 
 
