HYDERABAD: The fate of over 50,000   secondyear students hangs in balance as 330 junior colleges are yet to be affiliated by the Telangana State Board of Intermediate Education ( ). As per the Telangana State Board of Intermediate Education data, of the 334 colleges, 103 offer vocational courses while the remaining 231 offer conventional courses in science, arts and commerce. Despite issuing repeated notices to these colleges, the managements have failed to submit required documents to secure affiliation.

 Reportedly , during the 2016-17 academic year, students of Sri Vasavi Junior College, Vanasthalipuram, were forced to give their scheduled intermediate public examination a miss after it was unearthed that the institute did not have the mandatory affiliation. It took special intervention from Telangana State Board of Intermediate Education to eventually ensure that the candidates took the test on a later date.
 
 Following the Vasavi Junior College case wherein 400 students were in a limbo over affiliation row, the board made it mandatory for all colleges to seek affiliation every academic year from this year.While until last year, students were allowed to appear for the annual examination irrespective of whether the college was affiliated or not, this year the board has tightened its noose.
 
 The board has now extended its last date for colleges to fulfil the norms to September 21 following which students of   will not be allowed to appear for the annual examination from their respective colleges.
 
 “Majority colleges have admitted students but are yet to get affiliation as they have not submitted various documents related to fire safety , sanitation, infrastructure among others. If colleges fail to secure affiliation then we will have to decide on whether to shift the students to other affiliated colleges or make other alternative arrangements," said a Telangana State Board of Intermediate Education official.
 
 After the conclusion of the affiliation process, the board has decided to issue a final list of affiliated colleges on its website for students knowledge. While 1,572 private colleges had applied for affiliation, only 1,238 have been granted affiliation so far.
 
 
