PILIBHIT: A   after being   from her village. Police, however, failed to   even though he was identified. While the SHO concerned said an FIR would be lodged once a written complaint is given to him, the girl’s father said the complaint had been filed two days ago. Though the girl allegedly committed suicide by hanging herself, the   neither confirmed death due to hanging nor  . Her father now plans to take up the alleged police inaction with the district magistrate.
 
  The incident took place at Meerpur Harraypur village under Bilsanda police station on the intervening night between January 16 and 17 when the teen’s father was in Allahabad at Prayag mela. His two daughters, including the victim, and 12-year-old son were alone at home. The girl’s mother passed away 10 years ago.
  
  The teen’s father claimed that the culprit, Salman, 20, barged into his house at around 11.30 pm and attacked is elder daughter. As she screamed for help, his son, who had got up to answer a call of nature, rushed in to save his sister.
  
  Furious on seeing the boy, Salman gagged his son and fled from the house. He said the next day, his daughter committed suicide at around 11 am. Relatives informed him about his daughter’s death and he rushed back home, reaching his village on January 18.
  
  The victim’s father claimed he filed a written complaint with Bilsanda police station on January 18 and police sent the body of his daughter for post-mortem but did not lodge an FIR against Salman.
  
  The man said Salman had attempted to rape his daughter earlier in November 2015. “As per my work schedule, I normally return home at 11.30 pm but that day, I returned home at 9 pm. I saw Salman molesting my daughter and grabbed him and took him to the police station. But that time too, police declined to lodge any case against Salman,” he alleged.
  
  On his part, SHO of Bilsanda police station Vivek Trivedi said he was yet to receive any complaint from the family members of the deceased. The needful would be done after a written complaint in the matter was filed.
  
  However, the victim’s father said he had lost all hope of justice from Bilsanda police and therefore would present his case before the district magistrate on Saturday.
