
 
  
 When it comes to work, weight issues don’t weigh heavily on actor Vishal Kotian’s mind. A self-confessed fitness freak, he didn’t mind adding flab to his well-toned body for his character in ' '. Vishal put on 13 kilos in two months and even more astonishingly, went back to his original weight in exactly the same time. He says, “Putting on so much weight was quite a challenge for me since I have always had a good body. I had to transform myself to do justice to my character Birbal, who was ageing. So, I ate everything from samosas to milk and jalebis to gain 14 kilos. The bigger challenge was to come back to my original weight. On television, actors usually don’t transform themselves to this extent. In fact, people would often ask me, ‘Who does that on TV?’ They felt I was risking my body, but I wanted to do justice to my remuneration. It was a tribute to Birbal. Whatever I am today is because of TV and this is my way to repay the medium.”
 He could have taken it easy while losing weight, but there was no luxury of time as the actor was required to look lean and fit for his next show, an action-comedy in which he plays a cop. “My producer was at his wits’ end after seeing me all bloated. He was worried if he would have to find a new hero. But I assured him I would lose weight before we go on floors,” he says. The actor is currently learning Kalaripayattu, a martial art form from Kerala, to get into the skin of his character.
 About his flab-to-fab journey, Vishal elaborates, “I understand my body and shed those extra kilos through a proper workout regimen. One should not stretch it too much and have patience while losing weight.”
 
 
  
  
 Avinesh Rekhi, too, lost around eight kilos in three months to play Uma Shankar in ' '. He says, “I have always been fit, but never this lean. Losing weight was the requirement of the character, which I did through basic gymming and a strict diet. I reduced my water intake. In fact, I avoided it completely on the day of the photo shoot. The feedback has been positive and encouraging. Many people have told me that I look younger.” The actor also learnt yoga and polished his Hindi-speaking skills for the part. “Language was not a problem, but I polished it further. I used to read Hindi newspapers aloud to get my pronunciation clear. Every character requires you to transform not just physically, but psychologically, too,” he signs off.
 
 
  
  
 Model-turned actor Tushar Khanna had to shed his muscles and lose nine kilos for his part in the show, 'Piyaa Albela'. He says, “I was on the heavier side before my acting debut. However, I had to look younger for the show and hence, was asked to become leaner. The idea was to not look like a gym dude, but a boy-next-door, who is relatable. These days, I follow a strict diet and avoid set food. I eat six home-cooked meals in a day.” 
 Now, gymming has become a habit for him. “No matter what, I make sure to work out at least for an hour everyday. I don’t want to lose my eight packs,” he says. 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
