CHENNAI: The mercury made it past the   for the first time this year, beating the   recorded temperature of   during the brief   in the third week of April. The   marks the beginning of at least a month of hot days due to the presence of westerly winds.

 The city’s maximum temperate had fallen five days ago to 32.9 C, the lowest in two months. On Monday, Nungambakkam recorded a maximum temperature of 41.1 C, which is four degrees above normal. Meenambakkam, which is further inland from the sea, recorded 42.5 C.
 
 The effect of sea breeze helped regulate the temperature at Nungambakkam. As sea breeze takes an hour or two longer to reach parts near Meenambakkam, the weather station recorded higher temperature. Area cyclone warning centre director S Balachandran said, “The maximum temperature at Nungambakkam is likely to stay as high as 41 C on Tuesday and Wednesday.
 
 The met office categorises days with maximum temperature higher than 40 C as ‘hot days’. There are many hot days to look forward to this May, said weathermen.
 
 Compared to Sunday, the temperature rose by 2.5 from 38.6 to 41.1 C. The temperature on Monday peaked to 41 C around 12.45pm and dropped to about 38 C by 1.30pm. In comparison, on Sunday, the temperature was about 35 C around 12.45pm. 
 
 The prevailing easterly and south easterly winds are being replaced by dry breeze brought by westerly winds. As the effect of westerly winds get stronger, the days are set to get hotter this month. The all-time highest temperature in May was recorded in the city in 2003 when the mercury soared to 45 C. The highest maximum temperate during the month in the last decade was 43 C recorded in 2007.
 
 Interior districts continue to enjoy the effects of wind convergence which has been causing convective rainfall. Natham, Sathyamangalam and Udhagai recorded 4cm rainfall each on Monday, while Kangeyam, Hosur and Mayanoor recorded 2cm rainfall each. Thirteen other places in the interior districts recorded more than 1cm rainfall. During May, Chennai records an average of 3.5cm rainfall but the city is yet to receive rainfall this month.
 
 The met office has forecast further rainfall in the interior districts. “One or two places in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry may receive rainfall on Tuesday,” Balachandran said.
 
 
