DEHRADUN : The tourists will be able to apply online for   in Uttarkashi from April 15 onwards. To regulate tourists flow, only 150 tourists will be allowed in a day. On the day of their visits, all the required documents will be screened on  .

 The tourists were finding it difficult to visit this  , which was opened only two years ago by the state, after it was closed post   in 1962 due to hassled entry ticket. The tourists most of the times had no prior knowledge of requirement of inner line permit, and had to return disappointed . Since the permit was earlier issued by sub-divisional magistrate, so in his absence the tourists had to wait for longer. However all these bottlenecks will be removed with the introduction of online and single window system.
 
 District magistrate of Uttarkashi,   said, "The tourists will be given provisional approval the day they submit online form alongwith scanned copies of proof of their address and identity card issued next date on which they can visit the valley but before that they will have to show the originals of their documents to the panel of officials of three departments, district administration, forest and army in district administration office."
 
 The district administration will start online registration for Nelong valley on April 1 on trial basis which will be opened for tourists from April 15 onwards. In order to regulate tourists flow , only 150 tourists will be allowed in a day and, to prevent bulk booking by the tour operators, a tourist will be allowed to seek permission for six to 10 more persons in one inner line permit."
 
 He further added that tourists would have to come back from Nelong on the same day by evening from this strategically sensitive place. They would stay at government and private tourism accommodation facilities at Bhaionghati.
 
 Shailash Bagauli , tourism secretary who has funded the project said, "The tourists for long have been demanding for facility of single window system for all the trekking sites in the state. Since most of these sites fall in Uttarkashi so I asked DM to prepare software for online facility as well as single window system for trekking sites as well as Nelong valley. The tourism department is funding the software program.”
 
