Panaji:   will lead India at the   next month after being picked up for the responsibility by his teammates.
 
  Coach Luis Norton de Matos had asked each of the 27 players in the team to write on a sheet of paper their preferred choices for captaincy. The first name would get five points, the next, three, and the final choice, one.
  
  The players voted and the unanimous choice for captaincy was Amarjit, India’s midfield lynchpin and arguably the most popular player in the team.
  
  “From the 27 players who voted, Amarjit’s name featured on the list of 26 players. Most of them had him as their first choice. There were four who named him second choice and he was third on the list of three players. But, there was no doubt that he was the unanimous choice as captain,” a source told TOI on Monday.
  
  Amarjit possibly is the only player who did not vote for himself.
  
  Jitendra Singh finished second and will be deputed vice-captain, while Suresh Singh, who led India at the   U-16 Championship last year received the third highest votes. Defender Sanjeev Stalin finished fourth.
  
  Coach Matos appeared delighted with the choice, although he was non-committal on the votes that each player received.
  
  “I have four players as captains,” Matos told TOI in an exclusive interview, without revealing names.
  
  “The players (now) automatically know who their leader on the field is. The players who were chosen through a secret ballot are the same players who I wanted as captain,” added the Portuguese coach.
  
  When the Portuguese coach handed over the blank slips of paper to the players, he had just one rule: don’t vote for any of the goalkeepers. “I don’t want a goalkeeper as captain,” he told the players, before adding, “A captain should be one in the centre of the field. Whenever there is an issue, I don’t want the goalkeeper to run all the way from his goal to where the referee is located.”
  
  Born and brought up in Manipur, Amarjit was introduced to the game by his football-crazy uncle and he soon found himself at the Chandigarh Football Academy (CFA).
  
  When the selectors were hunting for players to represent India at the U-17 World Cup, Amarjit was invited for trials and he caught the eye of everyone. At first, he was slotted with the reserve side and made the first-team grade after German coach Nicolai Adam was impressed with his abilities in midfield.
