It was mass molestation... but no one filed a complaint! The shocking incident in  , where New Year revelry turned into a nightmare for women, has once again put the spotlight on the fact that   choose to keep quiet rather than step out and file a complaint against the perpetrators. This is the case in every nook and corner of the country and Mumbai is no exception. Women of all age groups and strata have been subjected to abuse in some form — lewd remarks, nudging, being felt up at crowded places or even serious sexual assaults. But how many have tried to lodge a complaint? Just a handful. They are not to be blamed; after all, the social conditioning, attitudes of people around them and the legal system in India is often not conducive to seek justice.

 Even though statistics show that more women are coming forward to register complaints of molestation — from 554 in 2011-12 to 2,145 in 2015-16 — the fact remains that a large number of women still hesitate to take legal action against their perpetrators. “One can only imagine how many cases go unreported on a daily basis,” says  , Project Director of Praja, the   that has compiled these statistics. “Women are not assured of justice and hence, they hesitate to take the matter ahead. The conviction rate in our country is so low that they feel nothing much will come out of it. Law should deter criminals but unfortunately, the system has become a deterrent for victims,” says Mhaske. 
 
 Advocate Suruchi Deshpande-Yusuf adds, “Courts in our country routinely grant bail to the accused quite easily. This means that the accused roams around freely once on bail until completion of trial. Criminal trials are highly onerous and lengthy. Furthermore, the women victims are made to relive their trauma repeatedly, first before the police, then during medical examinations if required, next before the court and while undergoing cross-examination as well. This discourages women from coming forward and complaining.”
 
 
 Walking into a police station is not easy for women. And after mustering the courage to do so, if one has to encounter a law enforcer who is rather indifferent to your problem, it’s worse. “They tend to counter question you so much that you end up wondering why you ever went to complain in the first place,” says Neeta R, a media professional, who recounts an incident a few years ago, where a policeman on the road dissuaded her from filing a complaint. She says, “He told me, ‘The boy who tried to touch you has run away, so it’s better you forget about it and go home’! The attitudes of law enforcers will have to change; they will have to be more sensitive to complainants.”
 
 
 Much has to do with our conditioning, says psychiatrist Dr  . “Since childhood, girls have been taught to take some of the blame on themselves. Whenever there is a molestation incident, it’s said that it could be the girl’s fault and she probably provoked it. And when ministers make callous statements, it only reinforces their belief. There is stigma attached and they also fear character assassination, hence they just learn to live with it. There are also some women who believe that this is a hazard of life and nothing can be done about it. In our movies too, we see eve-teasing as a part of our culture.”
 
 
 Lack of family support is also one of the reasons. “Women worry about their families and are scared that they will be reprimanded for going out at that hour or visiting a place they should not have. So, they prefer to just move on as if nothing happened, even if they are very upset about something,” says Dr Chhabria. In fact there have been instances where victims have wanted to complain but have been discouraged by their families for fear of being thrust in the spotlight, says advocate Suruchi. “Also, younger victims do not come forward as their parents will ground them. All of these lead to gross under-reporting of offences against women. This only emboldens perpetrators and leads to increase in such offences,” she adds.
 
 
 Incidents of molestation will rise manifold unless women take a strong stand and come forward to fight the menace. The need of the hour, as former cop-turned-lawyer YP Singh says, is an overhaul. He says, “The system needs to change. But to begin with, women have to get over their inhibitions. There are times when you see them taking their molesters to task at a railway station or on the roads; they hit them but let them go after that. Instead, the offenders should be dragged to the police station.” Well, it doesn’t end there. There should be fast-track women-only courts for speedy trials of such cases.
 
 
 
 
