KOLKATA: The Calcutta high court on Wednesday paved the way for married daughters to be recruited in government jobs on compassionate grounds should a parent die while in service.

 The   held: “Despite the marriage of a daughter, the bond of a fathermother with such married daughter is never broken; she continues to live in the heart of her parents.“
 
 It cited an earlier Calcutta HC order which also said: “ A daughter undoubtedly acquires a new relationship on marriage. She does not however lose the old relationship; she remains a daughter. Once a daughter always a daughter: she is a daughter before, during and after marriage“. Given the backdrop, the HC on Wednesday held: “We are, thus, not persuaded to hold that once married, the dependency factor altogether ceases. Proceeding on such an assumption, in our humble view, would be a misadventure.“
 
 A bench of acting Chief Justice Nishita Mhatre, Justice Tapabrata Chakraborty and Justice Dipankar Datta, therefore, held that complete exclusion of married daughters from the purview of compassionate appointment is not constitutionally valid. It also ordered: “The offending provision in the (state) notifications, ie, the adjective `unmarried' before `daughter', is struck down as violative of the Constitution.“ The HC, however, said in accordance with the law, a daughter “who is married on the date of death of the concerned government employee while in service must succeed in her claim of being entirely dependent on the earnings of her fathermother (government employee) on the date of hisher death and agree to look after the other family members of the deceased, if the claim is to be considered further.“
 
 The state had argued the daughter, upon her marriage, becomes a part of a separate household and is most likely to be dependent on her husband. “The dependency of such daughter on her fathermotherparents ceases with marriage and conferring right on a non-family member is not conceived in the scheme of things relating to compassionate appointment,“ the state claimed.
 
 The HC order came on three petitions filed before it. Purnima Das's father Haru Chandra Das was employed as chowkidar under Bara-II Gram Panchayat when he died on March 11, 2011.Das left behind him his widow and three daughters, all married, Purnima being the youngest. Aprita Sarkar's father Amit was employed as a constable (driver) under the SP Nadia. He passed away on July 19, 2009 while in service, leaving behind his elderly mother, widow and only daughter (Arpita). Kakali Chakraborty's mother Niva Rani had died on on November 13, 2010. She was employed as a peon in the state PWD.She left behind Kakali as her only surviving heir. Kakali is married, but her husband is unable to work due to physical disability and son is disabled too.They had all moved HC when denied jobs on compassionate grounds because they were married.
 
