NEW DELHI: The fledgling idea of a “grand opposition alliance” got a robust push on Friday when 
  , who gathered at a lunch hosted by Congress chief  , unanimously approved the idea of a “mahagatbandhan”, especially in UP, to take on the saffron camp. 

 The meeting called to discuss the presidential poll saw a more animated discussion on the need to join forces as 
  and Trinamool and Left appeared in step over a grand alliance. 
 
 The lunch was attended by BSP chief  ,   chief Mamata Banerjee and RJD leader Lalu Prasad. Mayawati, Mamata and Lalu cited the urgency for opposition unity. They said the need to put up a combined fight stemmed from BJP’s attempt to silence rivals through the use of central agencies and policies that are leading to oppression of weaker sections. The meeting also saw opposition leaders attack the Centre over the “grave” situation in J&K and Saharanpur in UP. While 
  in the specific context of UP, arguing that a joint platform of SP, BSP and Congress would win 70   seats, Mamata and some others amplified the need for total unity. Lalu stressed that such an alliance would blow away BJP.
 
 BSP chief Mayawati tried to dismiss what she called was a notion that she shunned other parties and preferred to play solo. “I am 100% with you,” she reportedly said. With SP chief Akhilesh Yadav by his side, senior leader Ram Gopal Yadav endorsed Mayawati. Though the UP players did not refer to the idea of a state-specific alliance and only addressed it in generic terms of larger opposition unity, Akhilesh and Mayawati have already made public statements in favour of a “grand alliance” after their defeat in recent polls at the hands of BJP. 
 
 A senior opposition leader said the remarks from Mayawati even elicited a mild applause. CPM chief Sitaram Yechury called for an ideological fight against the RSS-BJP. 
 
 If the gathering echoed with calls for opposition unity, few felt the absence of a detailed discussion on the presidential polls, which was the ostensible reason for the consultation held in the Parliament Library building. 
 
 Crucially, it was scheduled on the day of the third anniversary of the BJP government. 
 
 As many as 17 parties turned up. Among those who were present included the Congress’s former PM Manmohan Singh,  , Ghulam Nabi Azad and Ahmed Patel, Sharad Pawar of NCP, Sitaram Yechury of CPM, National Conference chief Omar Abdullah, veteran Sharad Yadav and K C Tyagi of JD(U), among others. Another feature of the unity show was the presence of constituents of Kerala's rival coalitions LDF and UDF — the Kerala Congress, IUML, CPI, CPM, RSP. JMM chief Hemant Soren was also present. 
 
 Abdullah said the opposition unity should be extended to the entire country and the parties should meet regularly. Given the impetus received by the unity efforts, the huddle also decided to field common candidates for the post of President and Vice-President, castigating the ruling BJP for failing to take the initiative to build a consensus. 
 
 The Congress chief may form a committee of senior leaders to take forward the issue of finding candidates. The opposition also resolved to strengthen floor coordination in Parliament to confront the BJP government’s policies “that are imposing unprecedented burden on all sections of our people — farmers, working people, youth, SC/STs, minorities, women and other weaker sections of the society”. 
 
 Lalu mocked the Centre by saying, “Its only achievement is that it has set the Pakistan flag fluttering in Kashmir for the first time after Independence.”
 
 
