KOLKATA: Chief minister  , without naming her  , chose to remind him that   Narendra Modi’s pet refrain “sabka saath, sabka vikas” is about inclusivity and not exclusivity.

 Breaking her silence at a time when thousands of meat sellers in Uttar Pradesh have shut shop for an indefinite period from Monday against Yogi’s decision to close down illegal slaughterhouses, Mamata expressed her concern over the recent happenings in Uttar Pradesh.
 
 “People are afraid and many are scared about differences over caste, creed and religion. We are all one. ‘Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas’ sirf bolna nahi hain, karna hain. We have to do it, to make it meaningful. A government has to be for all. We need to safeguard our Constitution and allow it to guide (us),” she said.
 
 The chief minister’s statement comes at a time when beef dealers in Bengal have already flagged off a looming crisis in Bengal due to the strike. Calcutta Beef Dealers Association president Md Ali said the UP crackdown on slaughterhouses had its ripple effects here too. “From loading to packaging, lakhs of people are employed (in Bengal). People are scared to work in this sector now and livelihoods, cutting across religious lines, have been hit,” he added.
 
 The association now plans to meet the chief minister to apprise her of their problems.
 
 This isn’t the state’s only worry. A prolonged strike is bound to impact Bengal’s 500 odd tanneries — which account for a quarter of the country’s tanning. These tanneries process approximately 800 tonnes of raw leather every day.
 
 Bengal, apart from Kerala, is among the few states in India where cow slaughter is legal. The West Bengal Animal Slaughter Control Act, 1950 allows slaughter of animals above 14 years of age which are unfit to work or breed or those which have been permanently incapacitated due to work, breeding, age, injury or incurable disease. “The supply of beef to UP has also stopped and one of the concerns is the obstruction in transportation. Trucks are being stopped and checked. We have faith in the CM that she will consider our plight,” said Ali, who is also the partner in the state’s biggest slaughterhouse in Tangra. Ali also said since March 24 not a single buffalo has been slaughtered there. “Around 150 buffaloes are slaughtered here everyday,” he said.
 
 Trinamool also kept up the heat in Lok Sabha. MP Saugata Roy raised the issue of an alleged communal clash in Gujarat in Zero Hour. “This is worrisome as it happened in the home state of the Prime Minister, and only 100km from Ahmedabad,” he said.
 
 
