PATNA: The state government has decided to transfer around 50 acres of land at   (BCE) to the Union ministry of human resource development (MHRD) for setting up a unit of   ( ). The project has been in limbo since 2010 when the UPA government at the Centre had proposed to establish new units of IIITs in different states.

 Speaking on behalf of the state government, energy minister   informed the assembly members on Monday that the academic session of IIIT at BCE is proposed to begin from 2017-18.
 
 “The state government will transfer 50 acres of land at BCE to the MHRD for setting up an IIIT unit in partnership with the Bihar State Electronics Development Corporation Ltd (Beltron),” Yadav said in the Lower House while replying to a question raised by BJP member Sanjay Saraogi.
 
 Following the announcement of setting up new IIITs in different states by the Centre in 2010, a few states managed to open up the units by giving land for the same or through temporary campuses. But the project could not take off in Bihar in six years.
 
 Unavailability of land and lack of interest from private partners have been attributed to the delay in the project. As per a directive of MHRD, the states concerned were required to hand over 100 acres of land for setting up the IIITs. The   government initially claimed that it had identified around 100 acres of land for the project in Chandi block of Nalanda district, but could not acquire it due to protest from land owners.
 
 Land issues apart, the government also faced hassles in getting private partners for setting up the IIIT. The MHRD stipulated that under the public-private partnership (PPP) mode of execution, the Centre, state and private partner would contribute in the ratio of 50%, 35% and 15% respectively to the overall project cost.
 
 Accordingly, the state science and technology department had in March-April, 2011 started the bidding process for roping in a private firm for the project, but no bidder turned up. Thereafter, the government suggested two state-owned agencies for execution of the IIIT project — Beltron and Bihar Rajya Pul Nirman Nigam Limited — to the MHRD. The Centre gave its nod for selection of Beltron as a partner in the project.
 
 
