THANE: The proposed additional railway   plan between   and Mulund seems to have crossed a major hurdle with the municipal administration and the Central Railways finally reaching a consensus over the project. The talks between the agencies had reached a deadlock over the location and design of the new station.

 Engineers from both the railways and the corporation who met recently for a review of the project have finalized location of the proposed station and its designs. The new station will be developed on a 340m-long stretch within the regional   premises at Thane as it meets the minimum distance criteria between two railway stations on the suburban division. The distance between any two suburban stations has to be more than a kilometer as per the railways rule book and the distance between Thane and Mulund is 2.34kms. 
 
 The municipal administration was also keen on developing the infrastructure here that should be enough to handle the rising   of traffic here in the future, said an official associated with the project. However, there wasn’t any consensus till recently between the engineers over the location and allocation of amenities in the area which was finally sorted at the meeting between the agencies held recently.
 
 As per a survey undertaken by a consultant deputed by the railways last year, a railway station with two platforms, a station building along with parking lots has been suggested at the spot (see box). The existing reservations of an 18m wide road along with parking lot and a school and its playground are being partially affected following which TMC has proposed a change in its reservation before the GB meeting next week. 
 
 “The TMC has proposed amendments to the development plan of Thane to accommodate work on the additional railway station between Thane and Mulund. The project was in the waiting for nearly 15 years now. The Central Railways and the TMC have reached a consensus over the design of the new station recently following which modifications have been proposed in the existing development plan as per section the Maharashtra Regional Town Planning Act 1966,” informed an official. 
 
 Over 1,400 suburban trains services the station daily in addition to over 100 express trains making it one of the most dense terminals in Mumbai, necessitating an alternative, informed officials. 
 
 
