PUNE: A sessions   here on Tuesday adjourned the criminal proceeding against   Virendrasinh Tawde, held in the  , to February 14 in view of an ongoing matter before the Bombay high court.

 The CBI produced Tawde before additional sessions judge P Y Ladekar. Lawyer Vijay Dhakane moved an adjournment plea on behalf of the probe agency, stating that the CBI’s appeal against the trial court order of November 16, 2016, on framing of   was pending before the HC.
 
 The CBI had filed a charge sheet in the case in September last year and since then, the matter is at the state of opening of case or framing of charges. 
 
 In November last year, the CBI counsel had made an oral submission that the opening of case by the prosecution be kept in abeyance for at least three months as it was awaiting receipt of a ballistic report from the Scotland Yard, UK. The trial court, then, rejected CBI’s plea and ruled that charges can be framed against Tawde. The CBI’s appeal in the high court is against this order.
 
 On January 20 though, the CBI informed a division bench of the high court, which is monitoring investigations into the   cases of   and leftist leader Govindrao Pansare, that it had dropped the idea of securing a ballistic report from the Scotland Yard owing to certain technical impediments.
 
 Later, the CBI moved another plea before the high court registrar (judicial) requesting that its appeal against the trial court’s order be clubbed with the PIL being heard by the high court division bench which is monitoring investigations. The matter is slated for hearing on February 7.
 
 Tawde’s lawyer Nagesh Takbhate furnished a couple of pleas resisting any fresh adjournment in the matter and seeking Tawde’s discharge from the case.
 
 Judge Ladekar, while referring to a copy of the high court’s order of January 20, observed that the CBI had taken a stand that it would not pursue the ballistic report matter with the Scotland Yard and had secured an expert opinion on the matter from a forensic lab in Ahmedabad.
 
 “From the (high court) order, it also appears that the prosecution has taken steps to club its criminal appeal with the matter pending before the high court division bench and keeping this development in view, the matter in the high court has been adjourned for hearing on February 7,” the court observed.
 
 “In view thereof, the (CBI’s) application is allowed and the case is adjourned to February 14 for opening of case and prosecution,” the court ordered.
 
 
