BHOPAL: An accused, charged under   for raping a minor has managed to give a slip to the cops for over a month. A case was filed against two people, including a woman. While the woman, an aunt of the minor girl with whom she lived, was arrested the other accused RK Mahale an employee of fisheries department posted at Vidisha has evaded arrest.

 An FIR was filed against the aunt of the girl and Mahale at Nishatpura police station on April 1 after they received an anonymous letter mentioning about the case. Mahale, a resident of second stop area is a relative of the girl’s aunt. Both were booked under POCSO and section 372,376 (2AN) of Indian Penal code.
 
 Recounting her ordeal, the minor said, “Once, I was given a glass of juice after which I became unconscious. When I regained my senses, I realized, I was raped. I was 13 at that time.”
 
 “Whenever that uncle came home, my aunty left the house saying she is going out for shopping after which he used to rape me. I was raped by him 6-7 times. I was raped even when I was unwell. After raping me he used to give me some money. Whenever I opposed his advances he threatened me with dire consequences. After some time, I realised that my aunty was also part of this and she made it a business and used to get Rs 2000 to 3000 for it,” the 15-year-old said.
 
 As per POCSO Act, an accused booked under it is to be arrested immediately. Police claims to be searching for him but there has been no breakthrough in this regard.
 
 A report of Nishatpura police said the incident was first reported at TT Nagar police station (as the aunt of the victim used to live in that area) a year ago, in an anonymous letter to the police station. However, at that time the girl had denied that she was forced into prostitution by her aunt or was raped. Later in 2017, again a letter in this regard was received by the office of DGP after which superintendent of police (North) was asked to probe the matter.
 
 The anonymous letter mentioned that the woman has forced the 14-year-old into prostitution. She shows pictures of the girl to men, and lured them. Later, with the help of Mahale, she also blackmailed the clients. It mentions that the person who wrote the letter has also fallen into the woman’s trap and had to cough up Rs 50,000 to save himself.
 
 During initial investigation by Nishatpura police in whose jurisdiction the crime was committed, the girl kept denying about the allegations made in the letter, however she broke down before the child rights activists and revealed her ordeal. The girl was living with her aunt, who was a neighbour of girl’s family since she was two-year-old.
 
 As per the police reports, parents of the minor were not aware about her ordeal till the case came in to limelight.
 
 Arvind Saxena, SP (North) talking to TOI said there was no lapse in nabbing Mahale. “We have already declared a reward of Rs 5,000 for information on him a month ago. Still he is untraceable. Our teams are constantly searching him and he has stopped going to his work place.”
 
 
