NAGPUR: The reforms initiated by   administration finally appear to be bearing fruit. NU declared as many as 623 of the total 942 winter   in just 30 days. A total of 796 results had been declared in 45 days, the stipulated period prescribed by Maharashtra Universities Act, 1994.

 This is a complete turnaround for the university, which had till last year been notorious for inordinate delays in results, which led to numerous problems for students. In fact, the delay had been a perennial crisis for NU officials since last two or three decades, which worsened after mushrooming of new colleges and students post 2006.
 
 The change began after the new administration under vice chancellor SP Kane and pro-VC   took over reins a couple of years ago. The duo initiated a slew of reforms based on the recommendations of former state IT secretary Rajesh Agrawal committee, which had been constituted after a couple of paper leaks rocked NU and Mumbai University. TOI had exposed BCCA paper leak in NU in April 2012.
 
 The reforms included making it mandatory for colleges and students to fill up online exam and enrolment forms, and introducing scanning of answer books and on-screen evaluation. The absence of statutory bodies like Academic and Management Councils and Senate too made their task quite easy.
 
 Initially, NU faced a lot of opposition from students, teachers, colleges and even its own officials. Many blunders and goof ups too came to fore, primarily on account of apathy of MKCL and lack of coordination between it and Promarc. In last one-and-a-half-years, the system has been streamlined and results are starting to show now.
 
 “Every new system takes some time to settle in. Now, we’re fully equipped to declare all results within the stipulated period. Even the pending results are mainly due to practical exams not being conducted by colleges. We’re ready with the theory results. We’ve set a deadline of February 25 for declaration of all 942 results. It’s certainly a big milestone for all of us in NU,” an elated Yeole told TOI.
 
 He added that they would now target the revaluation system, which is another bottleneck for NU administration. At times, NU has failed to declare revaluation results for over a year, while it takes a minimum of three months to declare them even in normal course. It was primarily due to earlier system of providing photocopies, which usually took over a month or two for NU.
 
 With reintroduction of direct evaluation system, NU is expecting to expedite the revaluation results. “Due to on-screen facility, there is no need to retrieve answer books from NU godown. Now, we can declare revaluation results within two weeks. However, we haven’t stopped earlier system of photocopies,” the pro-VC clarified.
 
