CHENNAI: Not too long ago, they sang Jayalalithaa’s hosanas to earn brownie points. These days, the Tamil Nadu legislative assembly resonates with praise of   general secretary   and her nephew  , much to the embarrassment of chief minister   and his ministers. On Thursday, the second day in succession, Dhinakaran supporters heaped praise on their leader and Sasikala, stridently criticising the government’s failures. 

 “Our deputy general secretary Dhinakaran is always smiling despite several hurdles and he is ‘punnagai mannan’ (Prince of Smiles),” said P Palaniappan, who was a minister between 2011 and 2016. There was no cheering for this, only an embarrassing silence. The MLA and Dhinakaran loyalist was speaking on the demand for grants for the labour and backward classes departments. “The AIADMK factions must unite under Sasikala (chinnamma), who is the party general secretary and function as a powerful party,” he went on to add.
 
 The faction led by Dhinakaran make themselves conspicuous in the house, especially when someone mentions the names of Sasikala or Dhinakaran. All AIADMK MLAs cheer or rhythmically tap their benches to hail the mention of former chief ministers M G Ramachandran and J Jayalalithaa. There are some who cheer for CM Palaniswami. But, now there are cheer leaders for Sasikala and her family members too. 
 
 Former chief minister and leader of AIADMK (Puratchi Thalaivi Amma) also has his band of supporters within the house. Sholavandan MLA K Manickam, who was the first legislator to team up with OPS, hailed his leader, referring to him as “OPS Aiyaa”. 
 
 Even within the cabinet, there are at least two ministers, who flaunt their loyalty to Dhinakaran in the assembly. Textiles minister O S Manian and housing minister Udumalai K Radhakrishnan are known votaries of Sasikala family. Three former ministers Senthil Balaji, Thoppu Venkatachalam and Palaniappan function as a well-coordinated team within the house and often criticise the government’s performance. 
 
 On Wednesday, Senthil Balaji faulted the government on various fronts and listed out its shortcomings. “Amma announced several projects for my constituency Aravakurichi under Rule 110. But, work on many of them have not even begun,” said Balaji. 
 
 Another prominent member of the Dhinakaran faction P Vetrivel was not to be seen in the assembly the last few days. “I was in Bengaluru and met Illavarasi madam in prison. This time I could get an appointment only to meet Illavarasi and not Chinnamma. That is why I did not attend the assembly,” Vetrivel told TOI. 
 
