CHENNAI: The state selection committee may not be able to release the rank list or conduct MBBS/BDS counselling before the Madras high court delivers its verdict on the   government’s policy of reserving 85% of seats for state board students. However, officials say they haven’t stopped working on the rank list.

 The court ordered status quo on the admission process, before reserving its verdict after day long arguments, but officials at the state selection committee said they would release the rank list on schedule if the verdict came in their favour. 
 
 “We have been asked not to release the rank list, but there is a lot of work to do and we have not stopped it. If there court verdict comes in our favour, we will be able to release the rank list as per schedule,” said selection committee secretary G Selvarajan. The committee had planned to release the rank list on July 14 and begin counselling on July 17.
  
 The Directorate of Medical Education received 50,558 applications of which 31,323 were admissions to 2,594 seats in 23 state-run medical colleges. Applications are being verified and scrutinised by a team at the selection committee. 
 
 “Each application has to physically verified for various qualifications, including NEET 2017. It takes a lot of time,” said a senior official.
  
 Meanwhile, students moved the court against the government apportioning the available MBBS/BDS seats to state board and CBSE students in the ratio of 85%:15%. 
 
 While the petitioners counsel argued that no discrimination could be made between the schools affiliated to the state board and the CBSE, advocate-general R Muthukumaraswamy said NEET promoted inequality among students of state boards and their counterparts from the CBSE. 
 
 He said the Tamil Nadu government had passed two bills exempting itself from NEET for PG and UG medical admissions.
  
 While the court order is reserved, students and parents are anxious that any delay in MBBS/BDS counselling will affect engineering counselling too.
 
 
