New Delhi: The Dakshinpally Puja Samiti, which organised the Durga Puja at Pocket 52 in Chittaranjan Park, was awarded the first prize for being environmentally the cleanest among the plethora of pandals. The contest had been organised by area MLA   to promote green consciousness at festival time. Chief Minister   presented the prize to the committee on Friday.

 Increasing awareness of ecological hazards has led puja organisers to use natural stuff, such as clay, cloth, paper, jute and bamboo, in the construction of the pandal and the adornments for the idol. The Dakshinpally Samiti has used biodegradeable materials at their pandal for five years now. “Our idol was made of clay and painted with organic paint,” said KP Paul, committee president
 
 Paul added that they also immersed the idol in a tank, rather than in the Yamuna. “We want to show the way to the others. An immersion procession looks grand, look at the traffic chaos it creates. Also, immersing an idol in the river means adding to its pollution,” said Paul.
 
 At B Block in CR Park, protecting the environment was a special focus too. “We used bamboo and wooden shafts for erecting the pandal against the normal practice of using metal frames. The iron poles leave the ground scarred,” said Tamal Rakshit, general secretary of the puja committee, which won second prize
 
 Sunil Pal, an artisan who made the idol there, said since Durga’s image was custom-made with paper clothing and soluble colours, “even if the idol is immersed with the decorations still on it, everything will dissolve in the water”.
 
 Similar natural materials made the Panchabhuta pandal at K Block ecologically sound. Made of coconut shells, cork and jute, the pandal design incorporated the five elements of earth, fire, wind, water and air. In a mud and jute pandal at Milani Puja Samiti’s event in Mayur Vihar Phase I, the famous literary work of Nakshi Kanthar Math by poet Jasimiddin was reflected in the extensive kantha work. “We had more than 50 Kantha stitch workers from Bengal creating these,” said Milan Biswas, one of the organisers. “Even the sari that the goddess is wearing is kantha.”
 
 At the Arambagh Durga Puja Samiti in RK Ashram, its 29th celebrations had an 18-foot Durga idol made of clay and herbal colours. The organisers said the sari had been sculpted out of dissolvable clay, while the stage has been decorated with items made of paper pulp, jute and recycled fibrous materials. “We have been following eco-friendly methods for the five years and this year is no exception,” said Abhijit Bose, executive chairman of the puja committee.
 
 Increasing use of plaster of Paris in making the idols had begun to worry experts. “PoP does not disintegrate easily,” pointed out Dr Prashant Rajankar of Toxics Link, which works to prevent poisoning of the environment. “We also found that these idols are covered in toxic paints containing heavy metals such as lead, mercury, chromium and cadmium. Compared with clay idols that break down completely within 30 minutes, PoP idols can remain intact in the river for months, affecting the quality of its water.”
 
