RAJKOT: Rajkot’s initiatives to embrace green energy has got a major boost with the city mayor making it to the new Board of Global Covenant of Mayors for Climate Change and Energy ( ).

 The European Union-led GCMCCE is the world’s biggest urban climate and energy initiative with its signatories pledging to reduce CO2 emissions by at least 40% by 2030 and to adopt an integrated approach to mitigate climate change effects. 
 
 Mayor Dr Jaimin Upadhyay is the only mayor from India to get a place in the nine-member board. The other eight mayors of the global board are Kasim Reed (Atlanta, USA), Patricia De Lille (Cape Town),   (Chefchaouen, Morocco), Anne Hidalgo (Paris), Mauricio Rodas (Quito, Ecuador), Park Won-soon (Seoul), Tri Rismaharini (Surabaya, Indonesia) and Mayor   (Vancouver). 
 
 In a statement, Upadhyay announced he will join the board of the soon-to-be launched largest coalition of over 7,100 cities committed to climate change-working to advance climate action both in Rajkot and around the globe.
 
 “In this role, Mayor Upadhyay will work to galvanize city climate work across South-west Asia, set the strategic direction of the coalition and work to elevate the voice and role of cites on the global stage. Upadhyay’s role on the board is a strong acknowledgement of the work being done in Rajkot,’’ the statement added. 
 
 Rajkot civic body has laid a great emphasis on solar power. The building by-laws have been changed to make rooftop solar water heating system mandatory and solar PV system has been installed at RMC’s three zonal offices and as many swimming pools. Moreover, 52,000 street lights are being converted into LED -Solar PV installed at three swimming pools in Rajkot. 
 
 “Rajkot has made strong contributions towards building a low-carbon future, working to set carbon reduction targets and implementing changes that are necessary forces to propel the world towards reaching the goals outlined in the Paris Agreement,” Upadhyay said.
 
 Michael Bloomberg, UN Secretary General’s special envoy for cities and climate change and co-chair of this board said, “We’re excited to welcome an extraordinary group of mayors to the Global Covenant board. This group’s diverse experience from cities on every continent will help support local action and speed global progress.” 
 
 
