BERHAMPUR: Police on Sunday arrested 34 people, including five women of   under Ganjam district's  , for allegedly attacking the members of a family after accusing them of practising 'witchcraft' a month ago. 

 They also forced the family members to eat human excreta. 
 
 "We have picked up 50 people from the village in Sorada block and 34 of them were arrested. The arrested belong to eight families," said IIC, Badagada police station, Jibananand Jena. More people involved in the incident would be arrested, he added. Earlier, police had registered cases against 55 people in this connection. 
 
 Fearing the villagers, all seven members of the family accused of practising 'witchcraft', including three women, had taken shelter in Badagada, 15 km from their village, since then. One of the victims, Babula Nayak, was assaulted by the villagers on Saturday when he went to the village. Their house in the village was looted in their absence, he complained to the police. 
 
 "We have registered a fresh case in this connection. We will seek permission from the court to take them on remand in connection with the loot," Jena said. 
 
 The incident had taken place on July 2. Sajani Nayak, one of the victims, lodged an FIR after three days of the incident. The family members were admitted to Sorada hospital after suffering from diarrhoea due to consumption of human excreta, police said. 
 
 Suspecting Utchhab Pradhan, 70, and his family members of practising witchcraft after a girl fell ill, the villagers imposed a fine of Rs 4 lakh on Utchhab and Rs 2 lakh each on other members of the family. When they said they are unable to pay the fine amount, they were forced to eat human excreta, police said.
 
 Since witchcraft-related incidents take place frequently in the area, police said they have taken the matter seriously and all the persons involved in the case would be arrested soon.
 
 It was the second witchcraft incident in Sorada block in a month. Police had arrested 15 persons of Balighai as they allegedly assaulted three members of the family suspecting them of engaging in witchcraft on July 6.The accused persons allegedly assaulted Bijay Bisoi, his wife Sajani and son Dillip and and forced another son Kartik to eat human excreta after pulling out one of his teeth.
 
