The   ( ) is looking to open an exclusive   for its visitors. This is touted to be the first such initiative in the country and will cost Rs 8 crore. The park has already invited tenders for the project, and officials estimate that it would take about two years for it to be finished. 

 According to BBP’s Executive Director Santosh Kumar, the new safari perimeter will be accommodated between the bear and lion safari areas and will be spread across 20 acres.
 
 For advanced veterinary care and rehabilitation, rescued leopards are sent to BBP from various forest circles. “In the last few years, there has been a marked increase in leopard population, which has resulted in frequent man-animal conflicts. Whenever such an incident is reported, and a leopard is caught, it is brought to the BBP. But how many can we accommodate in a facility that is primarily designed for rescued tigers, lions and bears,” asked a BBP official, who didn’t want to be named.
 
 Setting up this safari will bring in more revenue, which can compensate for the additional expenses incurred by the park in keeping its leopards, and will also be an experience for visitors, said the official. He added that the project had been approved by the   and the Zoo Authority of Karnataka (which means the safari will start soon).
 
 The BBP currently has 33 leopards, all housed at the rehabilitation centre for rescued tigers and lions. While tourists get to see tigers, lions and bears as part of the BBP safari, leopards are kept out of bounds.
 
 
 
 
 To set up the country’s first leopard safari, the BBP officials did their homework. They visited zoos and leopard habitat at various other places. As a result, the facility at BBP has been carefully thought-out. “The special enclosures, including the kraal, will each be 10,000 square feet in area. Eventually, these will be merged with the safari environment.
 
 While the safari area will be isolated with a moat, and a 5-metre high chain-link mesh over and above a rubble wall will ensure that no leopard strays out. “The kraals will be covered with an overhanging mesh with the option to cover them completely. The leopards can rest inside their house at night, and relax at the kraal during the day. The houses will also have a provision for veterinarians to freely move in and out for treatments,” Raghavendra, Assistant Executive Engineer at BBP, explained.
 
 A senior forest official from the wildlife wing of the KFD, while refusing to be quoted in this context, said: “Unlike tigers, there is no systematic and scientific way of assessing the population of leopards in the country. But through various sources we assume that there are over 500 leopards in Karnataka’s forests. A majority of them are spread across the thorny and bushy forests in the outskirts of Bengaluru, and in Mysuru and Ballari circles.”
 
 Interestingly, in some such incidents, leopards end up abandoning their cubs, and the forest officials have to rescue them. While a majority of such cubs are released into the wild, a few of them are retained at BBP.
 
 
