MUMBAI: A courageous young mother drove off a leopard that threatened to grab her son in the tribal hamlet of Chafa, in  , on Monday. Pramila Rinjad, 23, was on her way to the bathroom that abutts her home along with her three-year-old son Pranay when the duo were attacked by the leopard.

 The leopard, said Rinjad, leapt out of a dense thicket and pounced on Pranay. “It was around nine at night, and I saw it pounce on Pranay. He was in distress. So, I pounced on him and screamed out loud.”
 
 The leopard was taken aback, said Pramila, and made a dash for the bushes. Pramila’s screams had alerted locals who rushed outside and rushed Pranay to Aarey hospital.
 
 He was shifted to   hospital, where he was administered two stitches and promptly discharged.
 
 The incident has alarmed the residents of the hamlet, who said that while there had been numerous sightings of the wild cats around the hamlet, none of them have ever attacked a human. “Dogs and hens have disappeared, but a human has never been attacked. My family left for a relative’s place after the incident,” said  , 29, Pramila’s neighbour.
 
 Sameer Inamdar told Mirror that the incident was a rare occurrence. “Leopards usually steer clear of humans. But, it is an animal that considers all this in its line of sight as prey. It could have mistaken the toddler for a small animal,” said Inamdar, round forest officer, Thane Forest Department.
 
 He said that a report will be submitted to the department, and the family will be compensated, depending upon the nature of the injury. The residents, meanwhile, blamed the lack of amenities in the hamlet for the attack. Chafa, they say, was electrified just two years ago, but there are no streetlights in the area.
 
 The incident has brought to the fore the age-old conflict of coexistence between man and animal.  , a biologist with the  , said that one should avoid knee-jerk reactions to the incident.
 
 "Tribals understand animals way better than we do. When there is an understanding then the people will realize that it was a mistake on part of the animal," said Atherya.
 
