'Every year, the festival of colours makes Gurgaonwallahs abandon all inhibitions. But when they bring their reckless, bhaang-addled selves out on the roads, the traffic policemen on duty are not very amused by the ‘bura na maano,   hai’ attitude. The cops tells us that even though their breathalyzers can’t detect if a person is driving after consuming bhaang, the experience they have gathered over the years can. They also add that it is the women drivers who create more problems.

 Keeping in mind the security arrangements for Holi, leaves of all police officials have been cancelled. Gurgaon’s Quick Reaction Team (QRT), DCPs and all 23 police thanas have been put on alert. Apart from this, special teams will be deployed at all major intersections in the city.
 
 
 
 A traffic policeman on duty near Cyber Hub says, "There are many people who drive after consuming bhaang. And if we stop them, they say, ‘Prove kar ke dikhao ki maine bhaang pi hai’.” The cop adds, "Although there is no way to prove if a person has consumed bhaang, we get to know when if the driver is high."
 
 A traffic sub-inspector near   tells us, "Even when they are intoxicated, people don’t stop arguing. Last Holi, when I stopped a man for reckless driving, he said, ‘Aap chahe joh kar lo main apna driving license nahin doonga’. I told him to walk in a straight line to prove that he was not high, but he was not even able to stand properly and kept saying that he had a knee injury. Gurgaonwalon ki saari acting skills Holi ke din nazar aati hain. Those high on bhaang can barely keep their eyes open, but try to convince us that they are totally fine."
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
  Although there is no way to prove if a person has consumed bhaang, we get to know when if the driver is high, say cops (BCCL)
  
 
 
 
 A traffic cop on duty in Cyber Hub says, “Just because I am on duty doesn’t mean that I can’t enjoy Holi. For us, the excuses people make are the source of entertainment.” Cops tell us that ingenious bahanas are made by not just men but also women.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 A traffic cop on duty near Huda City Centre says, "Last Holi, a woman stopped her car on the road and started honking for no reason. When I knocked on the car window, she started blabbering in English. Gurgaon ka yeh bada problem hai. Yahan aisi angrezi bolte hain log ki hum chup ho jate hain."
 
 Another traffic police official near   says, "College groups are a big nuisance. Ladko ko toh aap phir bhi rok sakte hain, ladkiyon se deal karna bahut mushkil ho jata hai. Woh na toh license dikhayenge na hi gaadi se bahar niklenge."
 
 Another traffic police official adds, "Ladke toh bhaang pi kar acting karne lagte hain, par ladkiyan ya toh rone lagti hain ya hansne lagti hain. Jitna time ek ladki ka challan karne mein lagta hai, utne mein chaar ladko ka ho jata hai.'
 
 
 
 
 
 
