RANCHI: With the temperature soaring and an ensuing  , residents are already feeling the heat of the summer. But the   ( ) claims to be making all the necessary preparations to mitigate the shortage of water.

 The worst-hit areas are Circular road,  , Chutia and Hindpiri locality which entirely depend on supply water and handpumps.
 
 Ranu Dey, a resident of Lower Burdwan Compound said, "We have two handpumps in our locality to cater to a population of over 20,000 and both of them are out of order. Although we have reported the matter to ward councillors, no action has been taken as yet. Due to erratic water supply, we are already facing problems when summer has just begun."
 
 Dey said they could not even opt for deep boring as the underground water level has gone down. "In the coming days, the situation is going to be worse as civic authorities are still not prepared,” he added. 
 
 Vishnu Singh, a resident of Chutia is equally peeved, as 800 handpumps are also falling short for the one lakh people residing in this locality. He said, "At least 400 of the 800 hand pumps are already defunct. People from adjoining areas also come to fetch water from the hand pumps here. We have our own boring but supply water in our area is nil." 
 
 Residents of Hindpiri and Circular road are complaining not just about the shortage of water but also its quality, which is muddy and unfit for drinking.
 
 Md Islam, a resident of Hindpiri said, “We have more than 60 hand pumps, of which 40 are defunct. We have to stand in a long queue early morning to fetch water for our daily requirements.” 
 
 Civic officials on the other hand said they have already started repairing the defunct hand pumps after receiving complaints. 
 
 There are 3,500 hand pumps under RMC and the civic body on an average registers at least 30 complaints of broken hand pumps. Subodh Kumar, section in charge (Water Supply) of RMC said, “On receiving complaints we immediately send a five-member team to repair it." 
 
 Kumar added, we have made arrangements of 130 high yielding drilled tube wells in all the 55 wards. He said, “We have also allotted a sum of Rs 7.27 lakh to ward councillors for the construction of tube wells,.”
 
 Besides, 65 water tankers will also fetch water for the residents in different wards everyday, both in the morning and evening. 
 
