Ahmedabad: ‘Navratri ave chalu thai’, ‘Backless wali maal page chhe’, ‘Aa toh aapdi je item’ and the list of lewd comments on women's appearance, dressing and even cueing them to hook up, goes on. However, ‘Romeos’ are having a hard time this   as   are everywhere ready to pick them up under   Police Act Section 110 and 117 for creating nuisance in public places!

 A force of nearly 100 police personnel mainly women cops has been deployed by city police officials in three different squads to ensure women can enjoy Navratri without the fear of being teased.
 
 “Our aim is to not wait for women to come forward and complain because that rarely happens and therefore, we deployed a decoy squad where female cops dress in chaniya choli just like garba revelers and keep a check on eve teasers at various venues. So far we have nabbed some 42 people,” said Panna Momaya, ACP, women's police station.
 
 Venues that have heavier crowds including those on SG Road, Riverfront, Vastrapur, Vejalpur,. university area, among others are being watched.
 
 A team of five women usually visit a given venue and enter the ground in pairs. “We observe people and at times even take part in garba to cover the entire ground. The moment we see someone passing lewd comments, hinting at hooking up through dirty gestures or trying to increase proximity or touch women inappropriately, we focus on them,” said Jyoti Rathod, 27, an undercover cop.
 
 “If someone or even a group is found to be misbehaving either with us or anyone else, we signal our teammates who nab the accused,” Rathod added.
 
 Decoy squad cops are specifically trained to not be intimidated or react aggressively so that their identities are not revealed. 
 
 According to the undercover cops, most offenders are youngsters typically in the age group of 19-35 years. In addition to keeping watch on the venues, police personnel also keep an eye on parking spaces, food stalls, paan shops, eateries and even crossroads. 
 
 Cases of drunk men hurling abuses at women, passing lewd comments and trying to increase proximity towards women, chasing and screaming at women driving two wheelers were reported. 
 
 Some women cops who are under cover also faced harassment. However they tackled it with courage. “When I was returning late after duty, two men on a bike followed me and screamed twice making noise trying to seek attention. I stopped near a spot where there were cameras and later, they ran away,” said Sangeeta Parmar, a 42-year-old cop.
 
 “You should keep 100 and 181 emergency numbers on your phone’s speed dial list and ensure your family or friends are informed of your whereabouts. That apart, take highways and main roads while driving alone,” Momaya advised
 
 
