COIMBATORE: Startups in the country should innovate and invest to realise Prime Minister  's 'Make in India' initiative, said Union human resource development (HRD) minister   

 He was addressing a gathering at   in Coimbatore on Saturday, after inaugurating the finale of 'Smart India Hackathon 2017', a 36-hour non-stop programming competition. "Already, 600 start-ups have started working from hostels and this is the new India. This will further propel the prime minister's Make in India initiative," Javadekar said.
 
 Pointing out that the country was in a startup mode, he said the central government had been of late facilitating startups to function out of IIT hostels, he said.
 
 The minister described the Smart India Hackathon, co-organised by   (AICTE), My Gov,   (NIC) and National Association of Software and Services   ( ), a platform for students to come up with innovations that would go a long way in solving many problems of common people. "What they (students) invent would be solutions for the technical problems that the people of India face," he said.
 
 Speaking about the reach of digital solutions that the students would come up with, Javadekar said, "We have 130 crore Aadhar card holders, of which 108 crore have mobile phones and 70 crore do premium recharge every month. People are ready to absorb technology."
 
 The minister said he was surprised to receive 600 technical problem statements from 26 Union ministries. "We had offered all ministries to find solutions for the technical problems they faced. And we were of the feeling that only the general public faced problems. We were, in fact, taken aback by such a long list of problems from the ministries," Javadekar said.
 
 Around 7,531 teams from around 2,100 technical institutes across the country had submitted ideas for the event, of which 1,266 teams were shortlisted for the finale that would conclude on Sunday. The competitions are being held in 26 nodal centres, with each team representing a central ministry. 
 
