Mumbai:   district has achieved the top   coverage in the state with 100%  , ahead of metros like the city, which has 94% enrolment,  , where the   is at 92%, and  , which is at 91%. The overall Aadhaar coverage in the state is 94.5%, shows the latest data.

 After Ratnagiri, Dhule district in North Maharashtra has achieved 99% coverage, followed by   in Vidarbha at 98% enrolment.
 
 The weak area in enrolment is the under-five age group, where coverage is lower than 50% in the state. By contrast, 90% of the 5-18 age group has been covered, shows the data. 
 
 The focus now is on improving enrolment in the under-five age group, especially in urban areas. “In rural areas, we register children in anganwadis but in urban areas, many of them don’t come to anganwadis,” state information technology chief V K Gautam said.
 
 To boost registration of newborns, the state plans to set up Aadhaar tablets at 500 government hospitals by July 1. The Aadhaar number will be given on the basis of the child’s photograph, parents’ biometric details and KYC. Also, 3,200 tablets will be distributed by July-end to anganwadi supervisors.
 
 The state is also among the few in the country that already have an Aadhaar act. The Maharashtra Aadhar (Targeted Delivery of Financial and Other Subsidies, Benefits and Services) Act, 2016, provides for linking a person’s Aadhaar card to benefits under state schemes. Initially scholarship schemes, mainly the ones linked to the social welfare department, have been earmarked under it. 
 
 Students without Aadhaar will not be denied scholarships, said Gautam. “Those without Aadhar numbers will be given an opportunity to enrol for a UID number,” Gautam said.
 
 Loss or theft of Aadhaar data remains a major public concern. In 2013, the state admitted to the loss of data of three lakh UID cards. Gautam said the state “guarantees complete privacy” of Aadhaar data. “The biometric machines are STQC certified, which means that the moment the thumb impression is encrypted, it gets decrypted at the other end,” he said.
 
 Critics have questioned the Aadhaar data in the state. 
 
 “How is it possible to cover 100% of the population of people 18 years and above? Categories like migrants and street-dwellers are clearly excluded,” Utsal Karani of the Janhit Manch said. “In fact, it is difficult to find Aadhaar centres next to your home even if you want to register.”
 
 
