GHAZIABAD: Two days after an   rammed into an auto killing four, police are yet to arrest the culprit who was driving the supercar. In fact, it appears they have also slipped with vital aspects of the probe. 

 The background information about the owner of the Q7 is still murky. When TOI visited flat number 902 of tower A-5 in the residential society Olive County, Sector 5, Vasundhara — the address written on the parking sticker of the Q7, it was locked, and had a name plate reading ‘ER K B Tripathi’ hanging outside. No one had any clue what ‘ER’ meant. Unopened newspapers for Saturday and Sunday were strewn outside.  , the landlord who had leased it out, said over the phone, “The contract is in the name of  . However, his son Akshay Tripathi, IAS, lives in it. The father, who works in the Uttar Pradesh Awas Vikas Parishad, and lives in Orai town of Jalaun district in UP, visits them sometimes.”
 
 Further investigation revealed Akshay Tripathi — 2013 batch IAS — is a joint magistrate of Jalaun, the home district of his father B K Tripathi.
 
 Immediate neighbours, in flat number 901, seemed clueless about the family, though they recalled the flat was occupied by an IAS officer who lives with his wife, two children — a three-year-old and an infant — and a male servant, possibly in his late forties. “We’ve never spoken to them, as they have moved here only recently. I’ve sometimes seen the wife at their balcony, and the servant collecting milk,” the neighbour said. 
 
 She also said once or twice she has had to send over the society security guard to ask the Tripathis to remove their Toyota Innova, which would be parked in the slot designated for her flat. “I think the Q7 belongs to a Dr Manish Rawat, Akshay’s brother-in-law,” said the neighbour, with no conviction. 
 
 But if the car owned by the lessees of flat number 902 is an Innova, how did the Q7 have the Olive County sticker for the same flat? The parking manager said, “Sometimes, when people don’t find a parking slot in the same residential tower in which they live on rent, they rent a spot in a different tower.” 
 
 “We don’t know much about the doctor who lives in flat number 902 in A-5, because they moved in on ly in December 2016 and as tenants, used to keep to themselves and didn’t socialise much,” said KVS Tyagi, RWA president.
 
  RWA members also said it is hard for them to keep track of every family living in the society, and they only realised a Dr Manish Rawat lives in the society after the police visited them. No one in the society appeared to have seen the Audi before.
 
 Cops, who claimed to have been chasing Rawat, appeared shifty when questioned about the anomaly. Indirapuram SHO Pradeep Tripathi said, “I’m sure the doctor lives there. Maybe you visited the wrong flat.” About the Q7 displaying the Olive County sticker, he said, “It’s under probe. We’ll answer in time.”
 
 Cops said Rawat’s cellphone is being tracked, and that his last location was Delhi. “We still don’t know if the car was being driven by Rawat or his driver. After all, few Audi owners in these parts drive themselves.”
 
 
