NEW DELHI: The nation's military prowess, its state-of-the-art defence platforms and its diverse cultural and social traditions are on showcase on the Capital's Rajpath as the country celebrates its 

  68th Republic Day
  .

 As per tradition, the   Parade ceremony commenced at the   at India Gate. Prime Minister   lead the nation in paying homage to the martyrs by laying a wreath. 
 
 An eternal flame burns at the Amar Jawan Jyoti to commemorate the indomitable courage of Indian Armed Forces personnel who made the supreme sacrifice in the country's service.
 
 The PM and President's cavalcades then moved down Rajpath, where after the unfurling of the National Flag, the national anthem was played with a 21 gun salute. Then, the parade began and President   rose to take the salute.
 
 For the first time, 
  marched in the parade. The 149-member Presidential Guard, which was led by a   band consisting of 35 musicians, presented a ceremonial salute to President Mukherjee. Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the crown prince of Abu Dhabi and a son of the UAE's founding president, is the 
  this year. 
 
 In another first, a contingent of the National Security Guard (NSG), popularly known as the Black Cat Commandos, also participated in the parade.
 
 The parade was commanded by Lt General Manoj Mukund Naravane, General Officer Commanding, Delhi Area.
 
 The army showcased its Tank T-90 and Infantry Combat Vehicle and Bramhos Missile, one of its treasured armour, its Weapon Locating Radar Swathi, Transportable Satellite Terminal and Akash Weapon System.
 
 The 
  (IAF) tableau rolled down the Rajpath with the theme "Air Dominance Through Network Centric Operations". The tableau displayed the scaled down models of Su-30 MKI, Mirage-2000, AWACS, UAV, Apache and Communication Satellite. 
 
 The Indian Navy's "Professional Force-Anchoring Stability, Security and National Prosperity" tableau showcased the lethal marine commandos proceeding for action, the indigenously built Kolkata Class Destroyer and the Kalvari Class next generation attack submarines. It also displayed a model of the P-8I Long Range Maritime Patrol Aircraft.
 
 Tableaux from 17 states and Union Territories, six Central Ministries and Departments presented the varied historical, art and cultural heritage of the country.
 
 The heroic motor bike stunts of 'Dare Devils'- the motorcycle display team of Corps of Military Police - was a big hit with the parade viewers. 
 
 The grand finale of the parade was a spectacular flypast by the IAF's Mi-35 helicopters, indigenous combat light aircraft Tejas, Jaguars and Sukhois.
 
 Prime Minister Modi earlier took to his Twitter handle to greet the nation on this occasion.
 
 Security is tight in the national capital, particularly around Rajpath and the parade route. Multi-layered security has been put in place and elaborate ground-to-air security and traffic arrangements have been made, ANI reported.
 
 As many as 50,000 security personnel, drawn from Delhi Police and the central security forces, are guarding every nook and corner in the entire Central and New Delhi region. CCTV cameras have also been installed and eight control rooms have been set up to monitor the feed from the cameras.
 
