PATNA:   MP and   (JAP-L) patron Rajesh Ranjan alias   was arrested on Monday after a high-voltage drama that continued for more than four hours at his Mandiri residence in Patna.

 Police said Pappu was arrested in connection with an old case related to causing nuisance near the Kargil Chowk in Patna on January 24. But, the police decided to arrest the MP, who was expelled from   in May 2015, when his supporters clashed with the police during a protest march towards the state assembly which was in session earlier in the day. Police said Pappu allegedly provoked his workers to attack the police personnel engaged in stopping the JAP-L workers from proceeding towards the assembly, which is a prohibited zone. Around 5pm, 500 armed police personnel led by DSP Shibli Nomani reached Pappu’s residence. Surrounded by his hundreds of diehard supporters, Pappu said he would not allow police to arrest him without a warrant. The police laid siege to his residence and waited for further direction from the high-ups. 
 
 The drama continued till around 9.15pm when another DSP, Kailash Prasad, reached there with an arrest warrant issued in an old case pertaining to creating nuisance around the Kargil Chowk. Though Pappu continued his protest, a police officer at his house declared that he was arrested in that case.
 
 Earlier in the day, Pappu and his four dozen supporters received injuries in police lathicharge when they were trying to march towards the assembly to protest over the power tariff hike announced recently and demanding a   probe into the   (BSSC) question paper leak case.
 
 As the police stopped them, the JAP-L workers turned violent and pelted police with stones. This forced the police to use water cannons. When that failed to disperse the crowd, police resorted to lathicharge in which around 50 JAP-L workers were injured.
 
 Pappu, who is the husband of Congress MP Ranjeet Ranjan from Supaul in Bihar, was also injured in the police action and reached the office of a local TV channel. When police reached there to arrest him, Pappu went to his residence in Mandiri locality. 
 
