KOLKATA: The   (CAL) took its first significant stride on Monday by launching a website that will act as a meeting ground between   keen to sell and   interested to put them into re-use. CAL is an initiative mooted by writer   and supported by activists who are architects, conservationists and prominent city residents to preserve aesthetic buildings that dot neighbourhoods, particularly in south Kolkata.

 Members hope the website, cal-legacies.com, will halt the rapid destruction of houses that defined Kolkata’s paras as developers purchased the land and demolished the two-storied houses to build high-rises. 
 
 “In May 2015, we had embarked on a journey to look beyond   and landmarks to Kolkata’s architectural legacy and modernity. Houses that had certain features in common — red cement floors, high ceilings, slatted windows, ornate wrought iron grills, semi-circular verandahs, square ventilators with floral cast iron meshes but were architecturally distinct from each other — were being demolished in localities like Hindustan Park, Lake Road, Purna Das Road, Fern Road, Jodhpur Park and New Alipore. These buildings had been home to upper middle-class and middle-class Bengalis, many of them professionals, and defined the essence of the neighbourhood. But the homes were being sold off for the price of the land. We never got to find out the value of the houses. We hope this website will be a meeting ground for a community that loves Kolkata and wants its essence preserved,” said Chaudhuri.
 
 Art historian and director of Centre for Studies in Social Sciences, Tapati Guha Thakurta, rued the disappearance of paras from certain parts of the city while attempts were being made to create them anew at others. “The paras are architectural and cultural spaces defined by the homes. There is a particular form of Kolkata’s paras. There is a need for historians to actively document these neighbourhoods that, and through them, tell the history of the city before the paras disappear altogether,” she said.
 
 It was this sense of loss that had led to Chaudhuri writing an open letter addressed to the CM, mayor and other administration functionaries in 2015. The letter, signed by chief economist Kaushik Basu, MPs Sugata Bose and Jogen Chowdhury, architect Partha Ranjan Das, MIT professor Esther Duflo, Presidency University V-C Anuradha Lohia, G M Kapur of Intach and Bonani Kakkar of NGO Public, had raised concerns over the rampant destruction of buildings in Kolkata. 
 
 “House owners need to be reminded not every city is fortunate to have an architectural inheritance worth fighting for. Those that do, and have succeeded in hanging on to it, have without exception benefited, not least because distinctive old houses in every major city in the world eventually end up being worth far more than the new flats. Such a market is poised to open up in Kolkata, and it’s a terrible miscalculation to allow developers to decimate such districts,” said Chaudhuri.
 
 There are, however, practical problems that need to be resolved, including banks’ reluctance to extend loans for purchase of old houses and lack of KMC’s flexibility to offer incentives to house owners. 
 
 Goethe-Institut Kolkata director Friso Maecker, however, cautioned while heritage was important, not all buildings needed to be preserved. “We don’t want the city to turn into a museum. Paris is a very charming city for tourists. But for those who live there, it is different experience. Kolkata must retain its character but continue to evolve as a city,” he said.
 
 
