HYDERABAD: Poachers have struck at the   (UoH) yet again as a spotted deer was found dead trapped in a metal trap on Sunday afternoon.
“The deer was spotted next to horticulture department. We found four metal traps and two metal rods and wirings nearby.The trapped deer succumbed to its injuries,“ said  , a research scholar and founder of Wild Lens, a group formed to protect wildlife on campus.
 
 Between Jan-May 2016, 33 deer were found dead on campus and students fear that many more deaths of Telangana's state animal in the woods of the cam pus have gone unnoticed. In 2016, 2 poachers and 2 UoH guards were also arrested by cops.
 
 “We are booking a case against unknown persons under Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972 in this incident,“ said a forest official who visited the campus on Sunday. Students, who alerted the forest officials about the death of a deer on campus, blamed university administration for not doing enough to check deer killings. “The height of the compound wall in many places is hardly two feet.This makes it easy for poachers to breach the university wall,“ said Jillapalli, whose team had caught around 65 trespassers, including poachers, between 2014 and 2016.
 
 Forest officials also blamed the university for not protecting wildlife on campus. “Most security officials are deputed at the main gate. There is no vigil against poachers and trespassers entering campus from areas where the com pound wall is demolished or broken. Absence of patrolling inside the campus makes it easy for outsiders to enter the campus,“ said senior forest official A Shankaran.
 
 “Since the university is not a reserve forest, we don't have direct access to the campus. We had sought action-taken report from the university on killing of wild animals on campus but never got a response from the authorities. Now, we will take it up at the highest level to ensure that the university responds,“ said Shankaran.
 
 But university officials rejected the forest official's claim that such incidents occur due to security lapses on their part. “The security is meant for students and not for animals. We are not able to control such incidents on campus. It is a huge campus surrounded by low compound walls. Hence, we cannot monitor such activities on campus,“ said the university's chief security officer TV Rao. And it's not just poachers, but stray dogs too pose a threat to the wildlife inside the university as they appeared to have developed a taste for deer meat. Out of the 33 deer killed on campus, more than 10 were killed by stray dogs. Following the spate of killings by dogs, the university officials had also written to the   (GHMC). However, officials claimed that the GHMC has done precious little in resolving the issue.
 
