MUMBAI: Less than a month after the death of gastroenterologist Dr Deepak Amarapurkar (58), who fell into an open manhole and drowned on August 29 when heavy rains lashed the city, BMC’s Parel ward office has started a search for missing manholes in the area. This comes a day before the probe report on Amarapurkar’s death is to be submitted to the civic commissioner.

 BMC’s F South ward office initiated a search across 109 roads, which include Dadar, Parel, Lalbaug and Sewri. One hundred and eighty civic staff have been told to check if   are missing, if their condition has deteriorated or if they have been stolen. A chart has been prepared at the ward level giving out names of various roads and their length, besides which officials have to list the number of water entrance covers, storm water drain manholes, sewer chambers, utility chambers and other chambers.
 
 Initially, cast iron manhole covers were used across city roads, but after they were being stolen by miscreants,   decided to use fibre reinforced plastic manhole covers. “Staff have been instructed that where manhole covers are missing, concrete cement covers have to be immediately placed to avoid any mishap,” said assistant municipal commissioner (F South ward) Vishwas Mote.
 
 Civic officials said a common problem they face is that with there being no standardized covers for manholes, very often when a cover goes missing, getting a replacement is difficult. Therefore, the ward is likely to propose standardization of manhole covers with a BMC logo on them. “In case anyone steals these covers and tries to sell them, action should be initiated against those who not only removed them and sold them, but also those who try to purchase them,” said a civic official. 
 
 The civic inquiry report on the death of Dr Amarapurkar is likely to point fingers at local residents who tried to open the manhole cover which led to him falling in. “We have CCTV footage of the area and we have tried to co-relate the trail of events,” said an official, adding that they had called for suggestions from the public for a design for manhole covers, but only received two, one of which was from a staffer.
 
 
