At the start of the last academic session, the sun set on Chiranjeev Bharti School in Gurgaon’s Palam Vihar and its modest tuition fees. The school was reborn as DPS-G (G for the Ghaziabad chapter of Delhi Public School). Tuition fee went up by 25% to Rs 8,000 per quarter. This year, to measure up to its branding and expectations that come with it, the school doubled that fee to Rs 16,000. Among NCR’s well-known schools, this was the highest increase in percentage terms.

 “It’s not just that. The   for a session was earlier Rs 825. It has been increased to Rs 3,000 per quarter. And the admission fee of Rs 5,400 now stands at Rs 15,000,” says Kuldeep, whose daughter studies there.
 
  Fee hikes have always been a sore point between parents and schools. But this year, complaints have turned strident, protests have erupted across NCR, and parents have joined hands — manifest in the vocal Sunday protests seen over the past couple of months — for access to more affordable education. On April 2, Gurgaon witnessed an unprecedented mass protest when around 1,000 parents gathered for a march to the mini secretariat to submit a petition to the government. Even the police were caught by surprise, evident in the way they reacted by slapping and punching some of the protesters and hitting others with batons. But the parents did not budge and the memorandum was submitted.
 
 In Noida, a long and ugly standoff over   between parents and DPS 132 ended recently after parents of 45 students whose names were struck off the rolls blinked and and paid up.The school also took an undertaking from the parents that they will maintain peace and accept that the fee has been revised due to the Seventh Pay Commission.
 
 Across parents’ groups, there is general understanding that a fee hike in inevitable. What they are protesting against is the cumulative burden, piling up year on year, forcing them to bite more than they can chew. For example, quarterly fee for Class 8 at a well-known private school in Gurgaon has risen from Rs 46,000 in 2013 to Rs 61,000 this year. In another, it has gone up from Rs 68,000 to Rs 99,000 over the same period. In Noida, Step by Step School in Sector 132 currently has the highest quarterly fee, of approximately Rs 70,000.
 
 On a broad scale, the average fee hike has been anything between 10 and 25% in most schools. But percentage doesn’t quite tell the story here. It’s where the base is — a 25% hike on a fee that is Rs 70,000 per quarter would obviously bite much harder than the same for a fee of Rs 20,000. In Gurgaon, most private schools are, or aspire, to be in the ‘elite’ league — with gyms, swimming pool, computer labs, modern classrooms with smartboards and LCD screens, etc. It’s the same in Noida. Higher fees have, therefore, become inevitable. 
 
 “There is no middle ground. Where is such a school that has good infrastructure and also low tuition fee? That’s why parents are forced to get their children admitted to high-profile schools,” says Yatendra Kasana, who heads the All Noida School Parents’ Association (ANSPA).
 
 Schools believe technology and more facilities have now become integral to pedagogy. “Schools that do not have facilities like smartboards are considered to be lacking in infrastructure. This is the future,” says A K Bakshi, vice-principal of Cambridge School, Noida.
 
  
 The current wave of protests in Gurgaon began when Salwan Public School effected a Rs 6,000   increase, citing salary commitments to stay on a par with the Seventh Pay Commission. The school later rolled back the increase. But many others haven’t, saying their own sustenance is at stake. Schools argue most of their revenues are diverted to paying salaries — handsome increments, several principals said, are necessary to retain talent because a better offer for good teachers from a rival school is always on the cards. 
 
 GS Matharoo, CEO of the Group of Presidium Schools, told TOI, “We are bound to give increments to teachers annually at a minimum rate of 10%. We hire the best teachers and increments are necessary to retain talent. We charge a development fund which is used for maintenance of offices, school furniture, computers, security and surveillance systems, libraries, laboratories, sports facilities, dance classes, music facilities and so on. We have a strength of 4,000 students. Parents want all facilities to be provided but do not want to pay the costs. We are also repaying bank loans availed to construct the school building and purchase of land. Parents want to check our account books, which they are not entitled to do legally. We submit our accounts to CBSE and UP’s directorate of education annually.”
 
 Schools also cite cost of running air-conditioners on diesel-run gensets because of power cuts (a chronic problem in NCR). Then, there are overheads like RO water, AC buses, good furniture, CCTV cameras and security personnel, and solar power systems (now mandatory for schools in Gurgaon).
 
 
 
 
 Development fee, annual fee and charges under sundry heads like stationery, air-conditioning, operational fee, contingency fund, technology fee, computer fee, caution money, and even mid-day meals, are what parents’ groups are demanding a scrutiny into. Some complain of harassment by schools if they don’t toe the line. In 2015, the mother of a 10-year-old refused to accept a stationery package — pencils, sketch pens, geometry box, copies, glue, etc — from a private school in Gurgaon. “They had given five notebooks for each subject. One notebook of 25 pages cost about Rs 35,” Jyoti Dembla told TOI. “I was getting a 100-page notebook from Classmate at the same price. The 25 pages would fill up more quickly than 100, wouldn’t they? And then I was supposed to buy more of them. I simply couldn’t stand this exploitation so I decided to resist.” But a year later, she had to succumb. “My daughter was continuously harassed in school. All the friends possessed school-issued notebooks and stationery items. She often cried and whined about this after she came back home,” Jyoti adds.
 
 Parents also say schools offer them books from private publishers in spite of CBSE guidelines prescribing NCERT textbooks. “They even give us scissors, pencils, tapes and A4 sheets (along with the books). This bundle costs anything between Rs 6,000 and Rs 12,000 rupees. If we take the NCERT books only, the total cost for one session would be Rs 700 rupees,” says Ramesh Rana, president of the All India Parents Forum for Education. “When we ask school why, they say they want uniformity among students.”
 
 Gurgaon’s district education officer Neelam Bhadhari says such practices are prohibited. “Schools cannot enter into any such commercialisation. CBSE guidelines are very explicit about that,” she says.
 
 The UP government does not recognise charges under headers like air-conditioning, contingency and caution, but schools have continued with these.
 
 
 
 
 Parents want the Haryana and Uttar Pradesh government to set up an ombudsman or a regulator for private schools. Last year, the Haryana government formed FFRCs (fee and fund regulatory committees) in all districts. In Gurgaon, the FFRC audited the accounts of some schools and recommended stays on the fee hike. But the panel’s orders were later put on hold by the government. Parents see the FFRC as filibustering by the state to avoid the difficult task of bringing private schools under regulatory control. Now, through protests, parents’ groups want the Centre to form a national oversight body.
 
 Parents also cite land allotment concessions, which is true in Noida but not Gurgaon. Noida allots land to schools at one-fifth the original price. But land for a school is allotted only to a registered society, foundation or trust. In Gurgaon, schools can get land from Huda through auctions at institutional rates, which are lower than commercial rates but higher than residential ones. 
 
 “The basic problem is that authorities in Gurgaon are incapable of taking action,” says Dinesh Jaat, a parent. “They don’t have a policy that authorises them to take action against schools. Last year, 14 schools went to divisional commissioner D Suresh, raising issues of fee hike. He ordered schools to roll back fees. The schools went to the high court, which decided in their favour and quashed Suresh’s order citing there was no standard policy. So what are we expecting him to do now?”
 
 On this front, UP has made more progress, at least in intent. The Yogi Aditya Nath government has directed the education department to form a policy to keep a check on fee hike.
 
 What parents are demanding, though, is immediate relief with their monthly budgets constantly under stress from inflationary and cost of living pressures, and schools an understanding of their own compulsions. It’s a tightrope walk for governments and they need to find that balance quickly.
 
 (Reporting by Shakir Mir in Gurgaon, Shikha Salaria in Noida, Krittika Sharma in New Delhi and Ayaskant Das in Ghaziabad)
 
