GURUGRAM: Dinosaurs walked into a Gurgaon school enthralling kids and parents alike most of whom would jump with the start as the giant, life size reptiles waved their claws, swung their tails and dropped open their jaws. The campus of   in Sector 70 A came alive cartoon and famous Sci-fi movie characters as part of event teaching students to co-exist with nature. But the ground was soon overwhelmed by even the visitors who were not invited.

 The dinosaurs were the key crown puller with as many as 1500 visitors registering their presence. The animals had been imported from South Korea by Events Paradise, an exhibition company with whom the school had tied up. “They are no different from the ones used during the shooting of Jurassic park movie,” said Deepak Jain, event manager at the Events Paradise. “They look realistic. Their skin is made up of the rubber which has been painted and sculpted by special effects artists in South Korea and resembles real reptile skin.”
 
 The interior of the models was entirely robotic. The arms, legs and jaws even the batting of eye –lids – a feature which almost scared the children – was programmed by the computers and machinery run by 235 Volts of power generators, organizers said. Even the nationals of different countries were drawn to the event to catch of glimpse of giant, motion-enabled dinosaurs.
 
 “My friends told me about this event. I heard the   dinasours are being put to display at here. I came rushing,” said Ayako, a 30 year old Japanese woman who works at Cyber city. “My son Kaishi was really awe-struck at the sight of these dinosaurs. They look so real.”
 
 There were nine varieties of gigantic dinosaurs including Tyranossaurus Rex (T-Rex), Amargasaurus, Tricerotops, Velociraptor, Plateusaurus, Brachiosaurus and Oviraptor. All these models were placed at the fringe area of the ground where children assembled. Some even scurried away with fear as the animal models roared. “The main objective of organizing the event was to make children feel special and let them enjoy thoroughly. It is heartening to see that people have turned up in huge numbers,” said Sunitha, Nambiar, Program Director,  .
 
 “At one point I almost refused believing they are unreal,” said Arya Dev, a kid, who visited the event. “I am regretting that my other friends did not come to this place.” Organizers told TOI it took then three days to put all the set up in place. “It was really hectic,” said Pankaj, one of the operators. “We had to bear the rain as well which could have led to short circuit.”
 
