PANAJI: The   will have to introspect why its seat count went down to 13 at the 2017 polls from the previous 21, chief minister   said at a   of the party where he and BJP national president   were feted by the workers for working to form the Goa government after the 2017 polls.

  Parrikar added that he has resolved to talk less during his present term as chief minister and let his work do the talking.
 
 “I have learnt one thing after going to Delhi, probably because my portfolio was of such nature, that one should talk less and do more. And so I have decided here too, this time around, I will not talk at all and let people see for themselves the work I do. And we will give the people such a government,” Parrikar said at the event organised for his felicitation for forming the government in Goa.
 
 Parrikar said that his mantra will be ‘performance, performance, performance’.
 
 He said that the BJP was plain fortunate to be able to form the government. “We need to all think why we got 13 seats after getting 21 last time. We were lucky that the central government stood behind us like a rock and offered us support. And fortunately the person sent by Congress came here to enjoy as a tourist rather than work. It was not easy for us. Our partners from other parties kept their faith in us and I promise them we will not fall short,” Parrikar said.
 
 The chief minister said that the previous BJP government was plagued with many problems which probably kept him from meeting people’s expectations of performance.
 
 “I had promised zero tolerance government. But then the mining ban came and we were left dealing with the economic difficulties and we had to work with an extremely hostile central government. In 2014, the Modi government came in. But just as work was picking pace in Goa, I had to go to Delhi. Goa was probably neglected, maybe we fell short but we still managed to achieve many things,” Parrikar said, adding that he did not wish to be felicitated on Sunday ‘as the real person who should get credit for the government formation is Amit ji Shah’.
 
 He said that there is a lot of scope for development in Goa and he will work to see that Goa gets development with which its people are satisfied.
 
 “Just like Modiji’s slogan ‘sabke saat sabka vikaas’ promising to bring together all sections of society where people of all religions and castes progress, Goa too will have the same concept implemented,” Parrikar said.
 
