If UP polls have traditionally been tough to call, the March 11 results have churned up numbers that have left many scratching their heads in wonder. A state where relatively minor changes in vote shares typically translates into huge shifts in seats saw the BJP decisively sweep West UP, Bundelkhand, Central UP and East UP almost equally. While the BJP won 107 of 136 in West UP, it swept all 19 seats in Bundelkhand, 64 seats in Central UP and over 100 seats in East UP.

 West UP, which comprises 136 seats, and is traditionally regarded as BSP's stronghold saw its fortress invaded despite playing the trusty Dalit-Muslim card and fielding a historic 99 muslim candidates. While Agra, 'behenji's most densely populated Dalit belt crumbled completely in the BJP wave, BSP has managed to hold on to only three seats in West UPDhaulana, RLD stronghold of Mant, and Sadabad in Hathras. The SP, which has traditionally been weak in this region, has also been further decimated. The SP, on the other hand, was hoping to ride Congress' coat-tails to victory in West UP. With Imran Masood as their chief strategist, the party won only two seats, Behat and Saharanpur, but lost Masood's own Nakur to BJP.
 
 The collective rout of the BSP and the SP-Congress alliance also spread to the other regions. In Bundelkhand, another SP-BSP bastion, the   was hoping to register a win on the back of chief minister  's ghee balm -the Bundelkhand food packets to drought-hit farmers. None of the sops worked, though, and even though the opposition tried to drum up controversy over the empty water train that chugged into UP some months ago, it's the SP and the BSP that have had to return empty handed from the Bundelkhand belt.
 
 In Central UP Lucknow region, where Akhilesh won a historic mandate the state capital when he first stormed into UP assembly in 2012, the SP and BSP have been rooted out completely. The Congress too has been routed in Amethi, but gained two in Rae Bareli, handing over six assembly segments in the Gandhi bastion to the BJP for the first time. While the BJP remained in a contest on almost all constituencies in UP, Gauriganj in Amethi was the only exception to the rule. Here, Union minister Smriti Irani pick Uma Shankar Pandey ended in the fourth place after a massive rebellion within the BJP. This was triggered by Irani's decision to elbow out RSS oldtimer Tejbhan Singh in order to accommodate Pandey in the ticket distribution. The BJP's loss, though, has been SP's gain in Gauriganj and neighbouring Unchahar. The BJP march has also invaded the SP strongold of Kannauj. Here, the SP could only retain one of five seats. Etawah and Mainpuri, too, have not remained impregnable fortresses of the SP. if only symbolically, the BJP won the Etawah seat defeating the SP candidate by over 19,000 votes. Last, but not the least, was the East UP region, which Akhilesh had swept almost entirely in 2012. This time, this belt stands nearly saffronised, with the Congress wiped out in all but one seat in Kushinagar's  , and all constituencies barring one in Mulayam Singh's Azamgarh.
 
 As has been the case in previous elections, small caste shifts appear to have swung the votes in favour of the BJP. While the regional staraps have retained their vote shares -BSP is 22.2% and SP 21.8% -the Congress has ended with a 6.2% voteshare. In comparison, the BJP has won a whopping 39.7% vote share in UP.
 
 In 2007, BSP won just over 30% votes, and SP a little over 26%. BJP had 17%, while Congress about 8.5%. Five years later SP raised its tally by barely 3 percentage points. Its tally of seats went from 97 to 224. BSP's vote share in 2012 was four-and-a-half percentage points lower than in 2007. Its seats crashed from 206 to 80. Fast forward two years to 2014   elections and the scenario had changed dramatically. The BJP's vote share of 42.6% was enough to give it 71 of the state's 80 seats. That's almost 90% of seats. BJP's 312 out of 403 meant it led in more than eight out of every 10 segments.The SP was reduced to just 42 assembly segment leads and the BSP to a dismal nine leads.
 
