It's been a month since   got its first bike taxis, and going by the response, the demand for the service seems to be picking up. That's exactly the feedback we got while interacting with people who are using bike taxis on a regular basis. Here's some more dope we came across.

 `IT'S A BIG TIME-SAVER,' SAYS CUSTOMERS
 
 A number of people we spoke to said they use the service because it helps them save time in a big way . Shubhi Mack, a postgraduate student, said her life is now sorted, as bike taxis ensure that she's never late for college. “I take a bike taxi to my college and at times, to my tuition classes. It saves so much time and energy! I wish they were available in the main city as well,“ she told us. On the other hand, Rajarhat resident Parnila Bagaria has found a great way to visit temples in the bike taxis. “My granddaughter told me about the service and I thought it was a brilliant idea. The other day , I used it to go to the Hanuman mandir and back. It was an easy and time-saving journey . I'm used to bikes, so it wasn't much of a hassle for me. The rider seemed more uncomfortable than me,“ the aged lady said with a smile.“Maine ghar pe bol diya hai; abhi mandir le jaane ke liye kisiko nahi bolungi!“
 
 CROSSED THE 100-CALL MARK
 
 The men behind the concept told us that 25 bike taxis are currently in operation, catering to at least 100 calls a day. “We use 25 bikes, with 17 servicing customers from 8 am to 8 pm. Our riders work parttime as well as full time,“ said Firdous Kalim, a co-owner of the company . Imran Mustafa, another co-owner, added, “We have requested extension of the service to   Sector V , given the huge demand. Even we were happily surprised by the response.“
 
 FEMALE RIDERS WANTED
 
 As of now, there's hardly any complaint about the service, but some of the female customers we spoke to highlighted the need for women riders. Arpita Mukherjee, a student of hospitality management and a resident of  , told us, “I was initially apprehensive about the service, but then came a day when I was really late for college and had to opt for a ride. That one ride was enough to change my mind. The riders are so well-mannered and efficient! But there's still a sense of discomfort; after all they are strangers. A girl will always think twice before holding on to a stranger on a bike. So, I'd like to request them to employ women riders.I'm sure that will only help their business grow.“
 
 A similar view was expressed by Shubham Goswami, who uses the service every day to travel from Mother's   to  . “Bike taxis are time-saving and light on your pocket, so I love the service. But yes, the same may not be true for most women. It's a great concept and is doing amazingly, but I think a section of women would still prefer women riders. I've heard my female colleagues talking about their fears, which were also there when app cabs were launched in the city. So, the whole service would take a bit of time to become more popular among women. Deploying women riders will hasten that process,“ he said.
 
 
 
