Gurgaon: An assistant sub inspector of the Sector 14 police station was booked and suspended after he allegedly physically assaulted two men and harassed a woman, after getting drunk during a night checking on Saturday.

 The police said ASI Shri Bhagwan has been accused by Narender Lal, a city based businessman, for physically assaulting him and his friend on the old Delhi-Gurgaon road, during a routine check. According to sources, the ASI was accompanied by a head constable and the two were travelling in a private vehicle. 
 
 Lal, and his friends, including a woman, had come to the city from Delhi for a function of their friend’s and were returning back home in an Audi. The trio had stopped near Jai Cinema on the old Delhi-Gurgaon road and had parked on the roadside when Bhagwan reached the spot.
 
 According to the complaint filed by Lal, Bhagwan was drunk at the time, and he started hurling abuses at them and also manhandled him and his friend, following which an altercation ensued between the two parties. As things escalated, Lal called the police and a PCR van arrived at the spot to take Lal and his friend to the Sector 14 police station.
 
 The woman alleged the ASI pushed her and also misbehaved with her at the police station, a where she had later arrived accompanied by several other people.
 
 After the complaint, the ASI was taken for a medical examination. Sub inspector Aman of the Sector 14 police station said an FIR has been registered under sections 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) and 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman) of the IPC.
 
 Bhagwan has been suspended of his duties, and a criminal case has been registered against him.
 
 The commissioner Sandeep Khirwar said the official was “probably drunk during duty.” He said the matter will go to the court like any other case, and parallel departmental action will also be taken against the official.
 
 
