 With an aim to combat the age-old retail sales market in India, e-tail giant   is introducing three-dimensional (3D) videos for most of its   that promises a “touch-and-feel experience”.
 
  “Before buying a high-value product like TV, refrigerator, air conditioner or a washing machine, we always ask for a live demonstration of the product by a floor manager in a retail shop. It is a common concern. Amazon will help cross this hurdle with the introduction of these 3D videos, which will be uploaded during Diwali. We are gearing up for a huge technology integration with toll-free calls, live chats and direct link to the customer care team,”  , director (large appliances),  , told TOI.
  
  According to Chawla, all e-commerce players have been facing these psychological barriers. “Initially, e-tailers like us faced trust issues trying to sell smartphones online. And now, it has become one of the major market for mobile handsets,” he added. For a seamless buying experience of large appliances, the company is betting big on its 200-city installation-cum-service network, including its own units across 40 cities.
  
  In India, the sale of consumer durables ranks among the top-three categories on the online domain. “Although   has a first-mover advantage over us in this category, we are now catching up with them in terms of white goods and TV sales. We are aiming at this under-penetrated and under-served category with greater price discovery in India. Once someone buys a costly white goods on our platform, he or she will remain our customer for future purchases,” Chawla said.
  
  In addition to this, Amazon claims, it offers over 5,000 entry-level and premium products, including 120 exclusive items across all top brands, the biggest among all online platforms. The large appliances continue to be one of the fastest-growing categories on Amazon.in and over the last two-three years, the demand has grown more than seven times, thanks to added facilities like exchange schemes and 10x increase in customer adoption of no cost credit card   offers, the director (large appliances), Amazon India, said.
  
  On the impact of GST, the director (large appliances) said, “The new unified tax regime has made movement of goods, especially white and brown goods, across the country easier.” In the big August sales, Amazon received orders from 97% pin codes in India.
  
  In TV sales, Bengal stands at the 8th spot while in large appliances, it ranks 9th in Amazon India’s total product sales. “We are looking at single-digit growth in large appliance sales and a double-digit rise in TV sales,” said Chawla. Overall, Amazon has witnessed 400% year-on-year jump in consumer durables sales while the industry has seen around 50% sales jump. With the onset of the festive season, Amazon.in has expanded its delivery network in the east. This expansion will now enable faster deliveries in Meghalaya, Tripura and Jharkhand via the expanded line haul and last-mile delivery network, a company release said.
