HYDERABAD: "The wisdom of economy is about how to understand numbers and leverage them to our advantage as the situation demands," said chief minister  , while discussing the Appropriation Bill, whose passing would allow the government to spend funds for the next financial year beginning April 1. 

 His address seemed to be directed at the Congress, in particular, N Uttam  , the deputy floor leader of the party.
 
 He pointed out that the Congress had followed the   model but   had adopted a different model. He said he understood this when he spoke to Arvind Panagariya, vice-chairman of Niti Ayog. Both the Amartya Sen model and  's model were different in so far as availing of loans was concerned. 
 
 "We have adopted the mixed economy borrowing 50% from Amartya Sen model and 50% from Panagariya models. This is because we are a new state and we need a different model that meets our needs," said the chief minister. "When I told Panagariya this, he understood," added Rao, who was never a formal student of economics, having earned his BA degree in Telugu literature.
 
 The chief minister's short intervention on economy came after opposition benches questioned the wisdom or lack of it and whether it is an advantage or a disadvantage when it comes to claiming that the state had sufficient money. 
 
  The chief minister said there were commercial tax dues of Rs 4,000 cr which were reflected in the budget. If this amount does not get collected by the time GST is implemented, the state may not get the amount. He said that some of the amounts were in litigation and the matters were taking long. "I will meet the chief justice of the   soon on the matter." 
 
 He also clarified that the state was repaying the loan amounts regularly and at the end of the next fiscal, the state would have a surplus of 18,000 crore to 20,000 crore income. The chief minister said though the state was availing loans, it was repaying 20,000 every year. 
 
 "Ee garibonni okkanne anukunna Telangana osthadhani (I was the only poor fellow who believed Telangana state would become a reality)," KCR said, adding that since it had been achieved, the focus should be on developing the state. "We have to dare to dream," he added.
 
 
