

 MOHALI: The mother of Ekam Singh murder case prime accu sed on Monday joined the in vestigation.
 
 “Jaswin der Kaur is in police custody.
 
 No concrete evidence has been brought forth regarding her presence in the house during the time of crime,“ said SSP Kuldeep Singh Chahal. “We have scrutinised a series of CCTV footage but her presence could not be ascertained. We may release her if her role in the crime is disproved, otherwise we will arrest her,“ he added.
 
 Seerat Kaur, her mother, brother   and his friend   were booked for murdering Ekam Singh Dhillon (40), criminal conspiracy and dest ruction of evidence by attempting to dispose of his body in a suitcase. The SSP said police also scrutinized phone call detail records of Seerat and her mother but no linkages were proved till now.
 
 CCTV cameras of Ekam's house were not working when the crime took place and police procured footage from CCTV cameras of neighbours.
 
 Ekam was murdered on March 19. When Seerat was transporting the body with a friend packed in a suitcase on March 20, an auto rickshaw driver spotted blood oozing out.He informed the police. Seerat was arrested the same day. During her interrogation police said that Seerat had confessed to have killed Ekam with the help of her brother   and friend of his brother. She had also called up her mother Jaswinder after murdering Ekam, claimed police.
 
 On the other hand, Seerat's brother-in-law, Mahinder Pal Singh has alleged that Seerat's brother Vinay and his friend Jagat Singh were present during the occurrence of crime.He said, “Seerat had told me that she was not alone during the occurrence of murder. Vinay and his friend were present. It seems that it is not a work of a single person and that also a woman.“
 
 Mahinder Pal appeared in court for the first time after the incident. He claimed that Seerat and her mother after being abandoned by Vinay Partap had been living with Mahinder Pal before Seerat got married to Ekam.
 
 SEERAT'S REMAND EXTENDED
 
 A local court on Monday extended the judicial custody of Seerat Kaur but exempted her from personal appearance. “She will appear via video conferencing on April 24, said her counsel  . “We will be filling an application for the custody of the children,“ he added. Ekam's counsel Tarminder Singh said, “Seerat had sought permission to visit her house which was turned down by the court as the house is sealed by police.“
 
