AHMEDABAD: Further cementing their friendship that has blossomed over the past decade, Indian Prime Minister Narendra   will host Japan premier   in his home state, Gujarat. Breaking tradition, the Japan PM will skip Delhi and arrive in Ahmedabad on Wednesday on a two-day official visit to India to participate in the 12th India-Japan Annual Summit at Mahatma Mandir in   on Thursday.

 The two leaders' mutual admiration for each other has consistently grown since Modi first went to Japan in 2007 and later in 2012 as the then Gujarat chief minister. They will review the recent progress in the multifaceted cooperation between India and Japan under the framework of their 'Special Strategic and Global Partnership' and will set its future direction. Both Modi and   will preside over the stone laying ceremony of India's first High Speed Rail Network popularly called Mumbai-Ahmedabad Bullet Train at the Athletic ground in Sabarmati. This will lift the two countries' commitment to develop advanced infrastructure to put economic development in top gear. They will also digitally lay the foundation stone for High Speed Rail Training Institute in Vadodara.
 
 Japan is also bearing the largest share of funding for the bullet train project and has committed 80% of the Rs 1 lakh crore project cost at a soft-loan of 0.1%, repayment of which is to start after 15 years.
 
 Another highlight of the meeting will be Japan's involvement in the Dedicated Freight Corridor (DFC) which forms the backbone of the Delhi-Mumbai Industrial Corridor (DMIC). About 62% of Gujarat is covered under DMIC, which is seen by India and Japan as an essential catalyst to serve African and Asian markets with both the countries interested in development of  's Chabahar port.
 
 In May this year, Modi had announced central government's in tention of link Kandla port in Gujarat with Chabahar port to compete with Pakistan's Gwadar port development. The Gwadar port is essentially being developed by China via the China-Pakistan Economic Cooperation (CPEC), a part of Beijing's One Belt One Road (OBOR) ambition.
 
 This is the fourth annual summit between Abe and Modi. An India-Japan Business plenary is also scheduled on Thursday. Japan and Gujarat already share strong business relationships having partnered for Vibrant Gujarat summit-the flagship biennial business event of Gujarat -since 2009.
 
 Before embarking on business, Modi will hold an 8-km roadshow 8-km roadshow with Abe and the latter's wife, Akie Abe, upon their arrival on Wednesday after noon. This road show from the airport to the RTO will be highlighted by cultural performances from across India.
 
 Modi will personally escort Abe to the Sabarmati Gandhi Ashram and later stop over at Sidi Saiyad Mosque, the 16th century monument, in Ahmedabad, now India's first Unesco World Heritage City.
 
 As part of the summit an MoU will be signed for  , which will be jointly developed by the governments of Japan and Gujarat near Khoraj in Sanand.
 
