NAGPUR: With only a month left for   (NMC) elections, party loyalties seem to be taking a back seat. Many corporators, sitting as well as former, of almost all parties have either joined other parties or are waiting to do it. Corporators from established parties too are seeking greener pastures elsewhere if they are afraid they may be denied the party ticket.

 While the new entries may strengthen the parties in their wards, there is also a chance of rebellion within the ranks. Seven sitting corporators from other parties or independents have joined the Congress recently. BJP sources say that over 10 sitting corporators from other parties have sought a ticket from them. Shiv Sena and NCP leaders say some sitting corporators of other parties are in touch with them too. 
 
 While several sitting corporators may be seeking a BJP ticket, the names of two prominent ones are doing the rounds. One is NCP corporator Pragati Patil, a three-time corporator from Civil Lines. Her husband Ajay was city NCP president for many years. The couple is expected to join the BJP .
 
 Prominent Congress corporator Abha Pande is also reportedly in touch with BJP leaders. She was an emerging leader in city Congress until she was denied a party ticket in 2014 assembly elections. Seven sitting corporators have joined the Congress so far. One of them is BJP corporator   while one is   from MNS. 
 
 Two sitting corporators, Sheetal Gharat of Shiv Sena and Bhavna Dhakne of BRP-BMS, had joined the Congress on December 29. During the winter session of state legislature, three sitting corporators had jumped on to the Congress bandwagon. They included   of BSP and independents Kishor Dorle and Kavita Sangole.
 
 Gharat is a big catch since she was the Sena party leader in NMC. Dorle and Sangole were members of NMC’s standing committee in the BJP regime. Commenting on Congress’ expansion spree, BJP poll in-charge Anil Sole said his party had not been affected as only one BJP corporator had left the fold. “If Sheetal Gharat has joined Congress, it is Shiv Sena’s loss, not ours. Sena failed to keep its team intact. Kishor Dorle was an independent and so it is not our loss,” he said.
 
 Congress leaders, however, expressed confidence that their party would hugely benefit from the new entries. Meanwhile, Sena district president Satish Harde claimed that two sitting corporators from BJP and Congress, were seeking a Sena ticket.
 
