Having released six singles and four music videos, British Asian   singer  , is now working on the release of her debut album. She will be releasing her latest single,  . And besides music, she is also working on her own cosmetics line. Having travelled around the world,   speaks about entering Bollywood, working with dream composers, and her latest song. Read on... 

 
 Kamli was originally the last song on the album. The song would be a treat for the romantics. With this song, I want to take my listeners into another world where they see, touch and feel the emotion of love like exactly how I do. My previous songs have been more upbeat, but Kamli has got a heavy Bollywood flavour. I have spent the last few years travelling between London, Paris and Dubai to shoot for my music videos. I am working towards releasing my debut album this year. Atif Ali is the man behind the song. Since it was the last song on the album, I asked him to make me a masterpiece, and he did.
 
 
 I would like to work with AR Rahman. Of late, he has become so experimental, and I truly love that. Also, Clinton Cerejo is someone I would love to jam with. 
 
 
 My western musical inspirations are Alicia Keys and Mariah Carey. When it comes to Bollywood, I revere   and Shreya Ghoshal. By listening to the songs of Lata, I have learnt the art of Hindi accent precision, while the art of singing with style is something that I totally admire about Shreya. I try not to miss her shows in London as I’m a hardcore Shreya fan.
 
 
 I have crossed over multiple genres such as dance, acoustic, ambient lounge, romantic, and sufi rock as you will get to hear in my album. I do really want to try English R&B fused with my Hindi romantic style. I have always loved writing and since I don’t write Hindi, I would love to write a few English verses just to let it out. Whilst I’m not afraid to experiment, my heart always keeps coming back to the mellow Arijit Singh style as that’s the genre I’ve grown up listening to.
 
 
 A few years ago, I hadn’t even though of a career in Bollywood. It’s only after I started to get attention from networking with musicians and film producers in Mumbai that I started dreaming. Their words of encouragement really helped me reach where I am today, and is helping me shape up my musical career. I might not be there yet, but that’s my final destination. I know Bollywood is always looking for new and different voices. I believe my voice is my advantage and I want to use my English twang to carve a niche in Bollywood. 
 
 
 I have spent many hours’ learning Hindi pronunciation. If I am able to sing today, it’s all because of love for the language. Hindi is not my mother tongue, but singing in Hindi is more than just a dream. It’s a desire to achieve my dreams to sing in a language I cannot speak, but one that I admire so much. I grew up listening to Bollywood and I was always attracted to the melodies, never so much the music. 
 
