HYDERABAD:   has set a benchmark for youngsters in  . Fresh from his double century against New Zealand last month, Shakib, who was dethroned by R Ashwin from the No.1 spot in the ICC's all-rounder list, is keen to regain the position. The 29-year-old is, however, quick to add that there was no battle going on between the two. “I do not think it that way nor does he. In fact I think no one thinks that way . The important thing is how much you are able to contribute for your team rather than individual targets,“ Shakib said on Sunday. Excerpts from a media interaction:

 
 
 
 He has been bowling really well for India for last two to three years. The control he has got makes him different. He does whatever he wants to do with AS the ball. His control and confidence have made him the No.1 bowler at the moment.
 
 
 
 
 There is no competition. He is doing well from his place and I am trying to do well from mine.The better I do, the more help the team gets. I will be happy if I get to contribute for my team.
 
 
 
 He has been aggressive. He has been successful and the way he has been batting, it looks as if he is not going to get out. We need to bowl really well to him and not only him but the whole Indian team. They are doing really well and we have to do our best.
 
 
 
 
 It is an important match for us. Playing a Test match in India for the first time is exciting.
 
 Everyone is up for the challenge. We know it is not easy and India are the No.1 team at the mo ment and at home they are unbeatable. It will be diffi cult for us but that is why we play cricket -for the challenge and to do well.
 
 
 
 
 It was difficult. If you keep winning match es, then you know how to win. We have not won the last two Test match es so that is a negative side, but at the same time we played England in Bangladesh and had a great result.
 
 So we will take that confidence and hopefully show a similar performance in this Test match.
 
 
 
 
 The spin attack.
 
 We have has done really well, specially in Asia. The young fast bowlers too have been bowling quicker with a lot of ag gression and that is also good for us.
 
 
 
 
 Test match is more about mental fitness. It is more important than technique.
 
 
