THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Generations – who grew up watching and sharing tales about the intricacies of ‘Njerrukkam’ and ‘Kalayam’ (various stages fireworks display) at   – were dealt a blow in 2016 when they helplessly saw their loved ones being charred and crushed to death. The residents, who had built their homes close to the temple, experienced hell for two months after the accident.

 “We had hardly recovered from the shock, when it started raining here less than a month after the accident. We were under the impression that all bodies had been recovered, but with rain pouring in, the air was full of rancid smell of rotten flesh stuck somewhere on the ground. We lived near a sacred place. But, those days we felt like we were caught in a horrid place,” said Devarajan, who was part of the rescue operations, soon after the cracker house exploded.
 
 Every year, when the festival begins, elders would recollect the previous tragedies. In early 80s, they remember the tall Kalayam (bamboo pole wound with fire crackers) collapsing on the crowd, killing at least three people. A few years, later a small fire had erupted but was doused quickly. “We never thought something of this nature was coming. I couldn’t eat anything for so many days. I had been a construction worker in Dubai and I had seen accidents, but I am never going to get over this,” he said.
 
 It took them months to draw water from their wells. “We were scared that we would come across a finger or a hand. We had to clean our wells and even then, we were bit hesitant to draw water,” said Suja, a resident.
 
 Elderly residents recounted how they had enthusiastically shared festival tales during their youth. It would be about how Paravur Govindanasan went to China and picked up new tricks in pyrotechnics which he unveiled at Puttingal. The tales would then cover heroics of Poozhikunnu Govindan, Pettayil Kochuraman and Puthur Raman. Now when they utter the names of Kazhakkoottam Surendran and  , heads drop in gloom. “Maybe we crossed our limits. It had been happening for decades, but as time progressed we should have given safety aspect its due,” said Dineshan, who still claims to be a festival lover.
 
