PUNE: As many as 117 employees of the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited ( ) will lose a day’s salary for reporting late to work on Thursday.

 Tukaram Mundhe, who joined the transport body as its chairman and managing director on Wednesday, issued a directive immediately after joining office saying all the employees including the administration, depot and workshop staff, have to report to office at 9.45am sharp and stay until 5.45pm. Mundhe had warned of action against those not complying.
 
 “The rule is to be followed strictly. However many people didn’t take it seriously and reported late to work. Following this, the CMD instructed for the latecomers’ pay for Thursday to be deducted. Stricter action will be initiated if the same is repeated,” an official said. “Employees reporting late can also face suspension,” he added.
 
 Mundhe, known to be a hard taskmaster issued a string of directives on Wednesday aimed at making the employees more disciplined and serious towards their duty. 
 
 “One can see the changes for themselves. It has been also said, in case a staff has to go out, he has to mention the reason and the time of leaving in a movement register, which will be kept in all offices. The employees have been told not to venture out of their work stations unnecessarily, especially to have tea or snacks. Tea can be sought in the work station itself,” the official added.
 
 A sum of Rs 1 crore has been sanctioned to repair the non functional buses of the PMPML. Mundhe also pushed for e-tikets and said the system of punched paper tickets will have to stop. 
 
 “The PMPML has a system under, which tickets are issued from electronic ticketing machines (ETMs) to the passengers. Many conductors don’t want to use the machines. At present, the PMPML has got 4,000 such machines. Conductors not willing to take up these machines will face stringent action and the officers concerned will be held responsible. If an ETM is out of order, it should be replaced”, an official said. 
 
 Steps are also being taken to improve the helpline and integrated traffic management system of the PMPML.
 
