There is no particular look for a detective,” says   as we ask Coimbatore’s first lady   to give us a pose like a private eye. “Look around and the beggar asking for alms in your street, the classmate sitting next to you or the lady in the neighbourhood you often spot at the temple could also be a detective. Detectives are everywhere and look like regular people.” Yasmin is Coimbatore’s own Sherlock Holmes, who has solved more than 400 cases till date. “It’s been seven years since I started working as a detective. It’s been an interesting journey so far,” says the political science graduate, who is currently pursuing a degree in law, which was her childhood ambition. Yasmin says that a woman should prove that #noconditionsapply in her life. 

 
 
 Right from childhood, I never played the conventional games that girls played. I liked games that involved fact-finding and looking for solutions to problems. When I grew up, I started reading thrillers penned by writer  . But it was after being married for more than a decade that I started mulling over the idea of becoming a detective. I assisted a popular detective in Chennai and worked under him for years. I began the private investigation service in Coimbatore four years ago.
 
 
 
 Today, when I visit schools and colleges, students look up to me as a role model. But, the journey was not a cakewalk. No one had said a word of encouragement when I began the journey. Every time someone discouraged me, I took it as a challenge to prove myself. When I broached the topic with my husband for the first time, he was shocked and surprised. It took a lot of cajoling before I stepped into the shoes of a detective. Girls in the Muslim community are married off at a young age. Though some in my community are proud of my accomplishments, I have faced backlash as well. I pray every day just like any other Muslim and I enjoy being part of the traditions. But, at the same time there is no compromising on the job. There are times when I have to use a pottu to wear a distinct look. I have absolutely no qualms about dressing up to solve a case. I have dressed up as a pookari, sales girl, vendor and what not? My two daughters are now aware of what I am doing and understand that I might have to leave on an urgent assignment, if needed. But even today, my mother is constantly worried about me as she finds this an extremely risky job. 
 
 
 
 Though I do handle many criminal cases, the majority of my clients are those looking for a background check on their prospective grooms and houses. There are many enquiries for post and pre-wedding investigations. When I investigate cases like a suicide or murder, I get many threat calls. But I handle them with care. There are risks involved, but I know I am bold enough to face them. I also provide counselling to my clients, when needed. 
 
 
 
 A lot of detractors have told me that I won’t be able to do the job or that I won’t sustain in the long run. What I am today is the answer to them. In fact, it’s an advantage being a woman in this profession as people tend to open up better. They find women more understanding. But there is immense competition in the detective world, too. Today, a number of female students have expressed their interest in becoming a detective. Though some of them are unsure about continuing the profession after marriage, the number of women approaching me volunteering to be a detective is definitely on the rise. My volunteers are everywhere — college, hospitals, court premises, etc. But when I am home, I keep my detective hat away and be a loving mother to my daughters and a doting wife to my husband. I traverse both worlds with ease.
 
