On a marriage gone horribly wrong, a 28-year-old   has filed an FIR against her  , a   here, charging him with  , and threatening her with a divorce only eight days after their wedding on the grounds that she is mentally ill.

 The woman has also alleged that her 29-year-old husband and in-laws beat her and kept her hungry, due to which she has suffered from a severe stomach ulcer.
 
 On April 26, Vimantal police filed a case against the husband under sections 377, 354A, 498A, 323, 341, 504 and 506 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), spanning a gamut of crimes like wrongful restraint, criminal intimidation, unnatural sex, sexual harassment, dowry harassment, etc. He was later arrested and sent to judicial custody.
 
 The woman, a tech lead at a software company in Hinjewadi Phase-3, claims she has suffered for more than a year, since she married Bhosari resident Sushil Sarandhar Malunjkar on March 25, 2016. The others identified in the FIR included the woman’s mother in law Vijaya Malunjkar, father-in-law Balasaheb Malunjkar, sister-in-law Sonam Dawre and brother- in-law Manik Dawre.
 
 
 
 
 Her complaint states that before the wedding, they had decided that the expenses would be borne by families on both sides. However, her father, a former sergeant in the Indian Air Force, ended up taking a loan from the bank and spending Rs 15 lakh on his own, as the Malunjkars said they would pay after the wedding. But, she alleged that she was beaten by her husband when she later asked him to pay her father. According to the woman, the family started demanding a dowry instead, in the form of a car and two-wheeler, saying “she had brought nothing from her father’s house”. “My husband and in-laws subjected me to continuous mental and physical cruelty over this dowry. He used to show me pornographic films and force me to have unnatural sex. If I refused, he used to thrash me mercilessly. His laptop and three mobile phones are all full of porn,” she stated. According to her, he forced her to indulge in unnatural sex by threatening her, as he was trying to prove his manhood.
 
 The woman said that eight days after the wedding, she got a stomach ulcer due to being kept hungry. She was even admitted in the hospital on April 5, 2016. “Soon thereafter, I was beaten by them over a financial issue and approached Bhosari police station, but they only filed a non-cognisable (NC) offense. When I went back, they beat me again and locked me in a room. I managed to call the police helpline (100), but Bhosari police once again filed an NC against the in-laws and husband. But then, the family began to shoot videos of me secretly. They told all their relatives that I am mentally ill and suffering from some attacks. They forced me to leave the house and divorce Sushil,” she has said.
 
 The woman added to Mirror, “On September 11 last year, we shifted to Pimple Gurav and started living separately. My husband asked me take a loan of Rs 20 lakh to buy a new flat, but then he later asked me to transfer the flat to his name. When I refused, he abused me and harassed me about ‘doubts over my character’. On March 3 this year, he said we would go to my parents. When we got there, he forced me out of the car, took my phone and purse and left. He called my parents and said he refused to live with me. I have been in shock. I suffered great losses for a year and finally decided to file an FIR.”
 
 She asserted that though the accused are trying to project her as a mentally ill person, she has excelled academically and been working in a well-known IT company for five years, now at a senior position.
 
 The court has rejected the Sushil’s bail application, on the grounds that he submitted a forged affidavit. The others are on out on anticipatory bail, the complainant’s lawyer informed.
 
 
