A 23-year-old woman was sexually molested by a ‘serial rapist’ at   in her   at Kundalahalli Gate. The incident took place on March 2 and the woman’s friend alleged that the HAL police did not register a complaint. However, on Tuesday, the  , Shivarama Reddy, was nabbed from near   after a gunfight.

 Shivarama Reddy is alleged to have been involved in 30 cases. Women’s PG accommodations were his hunting grounds
 
 The woman, a native of Delhi, was under shock and could not speak to Bangalore Mirror. Her friend, however, alleged that the HAL police refused to take her complaint, instead taking it from the owner of the PG accommodation. The friend also alleged that the woman was made to wait for over eight hours at HAL police station when she went to file the complaint; and even about the police ‘counselling’ her at a nearby coffee shop not to pursue the case, by offering her a ticket to watch the second India-Australia cricket Test match at the cricket stadium.
 
 Bangalore Mirror could not independently verify these allegations against the police as Sadiq Pasha, the inspector of HAL police station where the complaint was filed, could not be contacted as he was in the hospital for treatment after being stabbed by the serial rapist during the operations to nab him on Tuesday evening.
 
 Police said 31-year-old Reddy could have been involved in at least 30 cases of rape in north, east, south and south-east police divisions, besides in Bengaluru Rural.
 
 According to the police, he allegedly raped two girls in Adugodi, two in Bannerghatta, one in Anekal, one in Varthur, and one in HAL police station limits.
 
 
 
 In her complaint to the police, the woman, who has been in Bengaluru for the last few months working for a private firm in Whitefield, said that she was asleep in her room when Reddy entered the room. “The victim has alleged that the accused woke her up. She shouted for help, but the accused threatened her at knifepoint and said that he would call his associates if she screamed. When he demanded money and gold, the victim gave him money and her mobile phone,” said an officer.
 
 “The accused demanded to know her personal details and even picked up the roommate’s identity card. The woman kept her wits about her and locked the room the moment he stepped. She then called her roommate and asked her to return soon,” the officer said.
 
 After ensuring that the accused had left, she started shouting for help from the balcony.
 
 Later, she went to the HAL police along with her roommate to file a complaint.
 
 The division police had launched a manhunt for the accused, suspecting that he was involved in similar crimes earlier targeting ladies’ paying guest hostels, looking for laptops, mobile phones and other valuables.
 
 After zeroing in on Reddy, they cornered him near Outer Ring Road, when he attacked them with his knife to try and escape.
 
 “When asked to surrender, Reddy attacked vigorously. In self-defence, the police party had to open fire. Reddy has sustained injuries in leg and was shifted to a hospital for treatment. The injured policemen are also undergoing treatment in the hospital,” an officer who is part of the investigations, said.
 
 Reddy’s modus operandi involved entering ladies’ PG hostels to commit offences of extortion, theft, molestation and rape, the police said.
 
 The HAL police have registered a case of rape (IPC 376), assault or criminal force to woman with an intent to outrage her modesty (IPC 354), lurking house-trespass or house-breaking (IPC 454) and other sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against Reddy.
 
 
 
 
 
 Reddy is a native of a village near Palamner in Andhra Pradesh and has studied till 10th standard in his hometown. His father is a security guard while his mother is a domestic help. He is said to have come to Bengaluru after his sister got married, and started working with his brother-in-law in a housekeeping firm, settling down in Kaikondanahalli, before taking to crime targeting women.
 
 Reddy speaks four languages: Kannada, Telugu, Hindi and English.
 
 He is involved in more than ten cases of extortion, robbery, house theft, attempt to murder, molestation and rape, but the police. Sensing the threat to public order; Shivarama Reddy was detained under Gooda Act in August 2014.
 
 In June 2014, the police had arrested Reddy for allegedly raping a software engineer in her PG in Electronic City police station limits.
 
 But just like most of his victims, the software engineer, too, refused to file a complaint fearing social stigma -- which only worked in Reddy’s favour.
 
 Reddy’s parents were not on good terms with him after learning about his involvement in crime, although they were not aware of him being a serial rapist.
 
 A relative in Kolar usually bailed him out after his arrests.
 
 Reddy took to targeting women when he worked as a cabdriver 2011 when he blackmailed a girl and allegedly raped her.
 
 She was his first victim, but although the case was registered at Anekal police station that year, he was not booked for rape. They registered a case under IPC section 354- outraging woman’s modesty – only encouraging Reddy to target several other women over the years.
 
