SHAHANSHAHPUR (Varanasi): Prime Minister   said on Saturday that for him the country's development was topmost priority. 

 Referring to the mega animal fair being organised for the first time, he said “these animals don't vote. They are not anyone's voters,“ adding “this cattle fair organised by us is meant for betterment of cow breeds. The kind of work being done on cow breeding has not been done in the past 70 years.
 
 Speaking about the importance of toilet construction, he added amid applause from a huge crowd: “Jis bhi kisi ghar mein izzat ghar hota hai, wahan ghar ki izzat hoti hai.“ Quoting a survey , he said toilets can save up to Rs 50,000 per annum as per house. Toilets in India are generally called 'shauchalaya', the PM said, and added, “however, when I was laying the foundation stone of toilets at village, I saw `izzat ghar' written on them. I was happy to see the name. I con gratulate the state government for this name,“ Modi said. “Cleanliness is not a habit in the country but no one will deny the fact that no one likes unclean surrounding,“ he said.
 
 Sources said that during his visit to the village, which has a Mughal connect, PM asked the woman village pradhan who had given this name? “Jis kisi ne bhi yeh naam diya hai woh abhinandan ka patra hai,“ sources quoted PM as saying to the pradhan. Listing out his other priorities, the PM said his government had planned to provide houses for all poor . “It's an uphill task but then if Modi doesn't perform difficult task then who will do it,“ he asked .
 
 Hitting out at the Akhilesh government, Modi said that on many occasions, the previous state government was asked to provide list of people who would needed houses. “After so much pressure, they came up with a list of 10,000 people only . However, when   government came to power, it has given a demand list for lakhs of houses.“
 
 Concluding his speech, he praised the Yogi government for implementing so many decisions in just six month of coming to power.
 
