CHENNAI: Ending more than a week of political uncertainty, AIADMK chief Sasikala’s loyalist   was 
  by governor C Vidyasagar Rao on Thursday. TOI had reported on Thursday that 
  was likely to be sworn in. With Sasikala’s clan, including nephew and party deputy general secretary T T V Dinakaran and brother V Divakaran, taking front seats, Palaniswami took oath along with a 31-member cabinet. 

 While the governor gave him two weeks to prove his majority in the assembly, leading to criticism from DMK chief M K Stalin that this would lead to horse trading, assembly secretary A M P Jamaludeen announced that the motion of confidence would be moved at 11am on Saturday. 
 
 The governor administered oath of office and secrecy to Palaniswami, and the council of ministers in batches at a packed hall in Raj Bhavan. This is the third ministry in the state in less than 10 months. A central government statement said PM Narendra Modi wished the new CM over the phone. Palaniswami, the 22nd CM of Tamil Nadu, kept the key portfolios of police, home, finance and personnel and administrative reforms besides retaining PWD, highways and minor ports. Soon after, the CM, along with Dinakaran, drove to Marina and paid floral tributes at the memorials of former CMs C N Annadurai, MGR and Jayalalithaa.
 
 "We will prove our majority and Amma’s government will continue,” Palaniswami said. 
 
 Other ministers too retained their portfolios from the 
  . The notable inclusion is party presidium chairman KA Sengottaiyan, a prominent   figurehead, who rallied behind   and ensured the revolt didn’t spread. He has been rewarded with school education, the portfolio held by Pandiarajan, the only minister who joined the   camp. 
 
 Palaniswami was expected to attend office at the secretariat but he drove to Koovathur to meet his MLAs. A guard of honour was getting ready and policemen were rehearsing a parade near the CM portico, although few knew which office he would use. The office that J Jayalalithaa used has remained locked. Soon after the swearing in, police protection was given to OPS at his official residence on Greenways Road was withdrawn. The red beacon on his car was also removed. Earlier in the day, when the governor invited Palaniswami to form the government, a section of MLAs jumped in joy and slogans of “Chinnamma Vazhga (long live Chinnamma)” rent the air. More than 100 party MLAs have been staying at the resort in Koovathur since February 8 after Panneerselvam revolted against Sasikala.
 
