Abhimanyu.Mathur@timesgroup.com

 Noida-based cricketer   was allegedly waylaid and attacked by unknown assailants on Friday evening, when he suffered minor injuries on his hand and lower lip. According to the cricketer, his car was also damaged in the attack. The incident took place behind the   in Site 4 between 5.20 and 5.30pm.
  Awana, who is a resident of   village, tells us, “I had gone to Haridwar for the kanwar yatra and returned to Noida on Thursday night. On Friday, I went to an ice factory in Site 4 with my brother and a few cousins to buy ice.” 
 
  
  
 
 Parvinder adds, “We are all cricketers and we take an ice bath for recovery as we were very tired after the yatra. At the place, I saw two groups arguing and fighting, but I did not intervene. Later, after buying the ice, we all left in my car. One of the groups that were fighting also drove in the same direction as us. On the road, they were driving slow and not letting us pass through, so I honked a few times. Finally, I overtook them. Probably, that irked them. Within a few minutes, they overtook our vehicle and stopped us. Then, four-five men got out and started banging on the windshield and the side window. Maine sheehsa neeche kiya and tried to reason with them but they were getting aggressive and abusive. My brother advised me not to get out of the car as they were so angry that they would have broken my bones. I tried telling them that I am a cricketer and didn’t want to pick a fight with them. They damaged my windshield, and roughed me up, too.”
 
 
  
  
 Contrary to news reports, Awana tells us that he did not try to intervene between the fight earlier. “Why would I get involved in two groups fighting? That would only invite unnecessary trouble. Main toh apne raaste ja raha tha,” he clarifies.
 The 31-year-old played two T20 Internationals for India in 2012 and has also featured in the IPL for Kings XI Punjab. He plays for Delhi in the domestic circuit. T
 
 he Noida Policesaid that the alleged attackers ‘manhandled’ the cricketer and fled.   Love Kumar says, “Awana was at the spot when two groups were fighting. Apparently, one group mistook him to be a member of the rival group, and assumed he had been called there for help in the argument. They stopped his car and manhandled the cricketer. Later, they fled from the spot.” The   have recorded Awana’s statement and are procuring   footage from the area to get a clear picture of the incident. A case of assault has been registered against unknown persons at the Kasna Police Station.
 
