The recent case of the brawl on DAVV’s Jawahar Lal Nehru Hostel premises brought to light the fact that one of the students involved in the scuffle had been residing there illegally. The incident raises certain questions with regards to how strict college   really are about maintaining details of their resident students. What’s the scenario across the major college hostels? Are there stringent rules? Are they in place? Indore Times headed out to check...

 
 
 
 Shakti Bannerjee, the chief warden at   hostel, says, “If a hostel resident is our college graduate, or a college drop-out, and continues to stay in the hostel, he too can be labelled as as an  . Students who are on the hostel’s records, but allow friends to sneak in and stay, are at equally liable to action if the incident comes to light.”
 
 
 
 
 Suyash Agrawal, a final-year engineering student of IET College talks about the regular 
 situation at the hostel. “Three guards are always deployed in and around the hostel to keep a tab on untoward activities like brawls, noise beyond hours permitted and people sneaking in. If we want to call our friends to the hostel during the day, we can do so only after showing an approved application from the hostel manager to the security guard.” He added that verbal permission is given by the hostel manager. However, allowing friends, relative or siblings to stay the night is strictly prohibited.
 
 
 
 
 When it comes to having relatives staying on campus,   University hostels offer other options. Bhanu Pratap Singh, warden of the boys hostel, shares, “If boys want their parents to stay on campus, then arrangements are made for them to stay in the guest house.” We were told that on the other hand, the girls hostel has a guest room inside the hostel premises only where families can pay and stay. A hostel resident from DAVV, on the 
 condition of anonymity, however had something else to add: “Despite drafting so many rules, students who have graduated continue to stay at times in the hostel room. Security checks in the form of visits are aren’t done regularly. It is easy for us to have an outsider come in during the day, enter the details in the register, and have the person stay on.”
 
 
 
 
 The students of IIM have complete liberty to make their relatives, parents or even friends stay with them inside their hostel rooms. Revant Sandhu, an IIM students, shares, “We need to fill an online form and bring it to the notice of the authorities as to who is coming and for how many days. Once the permission is sorted, the college arranges for accommodation.” The case is 
 similar for the students residing on the campus of RRCAT (Raja Ramanna Centre for Advanced 
 Technology) for research.
 
 
 
 
 At SGSITS, rules are strictly followed. There were incidents in the past where students were caught living there without permission or grant, but regular checks ensure that this isn’t repeated. There are days when certain relaxations are made. Shubham Rai, a final year student of industrial and production engineering, says, “On occasions like New Year’s Day, the hostel authorities are cooperative and let us party in the hostel. During such occasions too, outsiders are asked to leave the premises by 
 
 .”
 
 
 
