GHAZIABAD: The crime branch of   police has recommended criminal charges against the owner of an Audi Q7 that was involved in an   on January 28 in which four people in an auto the SUV collided with died.

 Manish Rawat, who owns the Q7, is a consultant neurologist at Safdarjung hospital in Delhi. The crime branch’s inquiry report accuses Rawat of manipulating the investigation, providing false information and criminal conspiracy. It also recommends adding rash driving charges against him under Section 279 of the IPC.
 
 In his statement to the police, Rawat had said he was in the vehicle at the time of the accident but was not driving. Yet, the focus of the investigation has turned on his role because the man who Rawat claims was driving the car was not in Ghaziabad that night, if police go by his cellphone location. 
 
 The driver is anyway under probe for impersonating another man, his neighbour Ishak Ahmad. Local residents in Bareilly’s Peer Bohra village know him as Syed Imtiyaz Qadri. But Qadri had surrendered in a Ghaziabad court as Ishaq Ahmad after the accident, and even submitted a copy of Ahmad’s driving licence, to claim he was driving the Audi. He got bail and disappeared after that. The real  , meanwhile, is a truck driver, who claims he was in Gujarat on the night of the accident. 
 
 “Based on his phone location records, and the statement given by his landlady, it is clear that Syed Imtiyaz Qadri was in Bareilly on the night of the accident and his claim that he was driving the car is false,” said a crime branch source. 
 
 “He also impersonated as Ishak Ahmad through a forged document while seeking bail, so a case under sections 467 and 468 (forgery for cheating), and 120B (criminal conspiracy) has been included in the investigation book,” the source added.
 
 Rawat had, however, insisted his driver’s name was Ishak Ahmad, though a photograph he had shared with TOI in February, claiming it to be of his driver’s, was of Qadri. The investigation report also recommends adding cheating and criminal conspiracy charges against the two guarantors for the driver, Brajesh Singh and Suraj Tiwary, in court.
 
 Rawat himself had disappeared after the accident and surfaced on the night of February 5 at Indirapuram police station. He lives in Olive County, a housing society in Vasundhara, next to Indirapuram.
 
 The four people who died in the accident were Rinky Yadav, a 38-year-old software engineer who was from Kanpur and working with HCL in Noida, her family friends Vikas Singh (25), who had come to Noida to look for a job and his elder cousin Yajuvendra (40), and Sanjiv (25), the driver of the auto.
 
 
