NEW DELHI: When   and   addressed a joint press conference today, the air was thick with imagery - imagery of rivers coming together to produce progress and imagery of a hand pushing a cycle, or the way around, for speedy development.

 That's what the Samajwadi Party's (SP) Akhilesh and the   party's Rahul promised would be the fruit of their 
  , the aim of which is "to defeat the politics of anger and divisiveness" of the opposition BJP. The two young leaders also focussed on the fact they "are friends and not just political allies" and that the two parties "share much of each other's ideologies" and goals.
 
 As well, on his part, Rahul didn't confirm, but didn't rule out either, an alliance with the SP for the 2019 elections. And when asked about sister Priyanka's role - she's credited with the alliance - he said she was "an asset to the Congress" but also that she would be the one who decides what kind of role she wants to play going forward.
 
 Both leaders exuded camaraderie - at one point Rahul even called Akhilesh "a good boy", which the latter took sportingly, with a grin.
 
 The SP leader and chief minister of Uttar Pradesh said he was happy to work side by side with Rahul - "We've been together in the Lok Sabha, too" - and added that he believed the two would together win 300 of the 403 seats in the Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls.
 
 "If the hand is with the cycle, and the cycle is with the hand, imagine the speed," Akhilesh said, referring to his party's 'cycle' symbol and the Congress party's 'hand' symbol. He pushed that image some more: "We (Rahul and I) are the two wheels of the cycle." 
 
 Rahul followed Akhilesh with his "meeting of rivers" analogy.
  
 "Have you been to the 'sangam' in Allahabad? We, the SP and the Congress, are like the Ganga and Yamuna. When we get together, the Saraswati of development will emerge," the Congress leader said.
 
 Rahul also took a page from Prime Minister  's style of presentation. In fact, he even mentioned the PM's name, when describing the SP-Congress alliance.
 
 
 "In Modiji's words, this alliance is about the 3 Ps - progress, prosperity and peace," he said. Akhilesh added a fourth 'P' to that - "people."
 
 "This alliance will answer those who made the nation's people stand in queues," Akhilesh said, referring to the problems people faced from the 
  . As he'd done before in his campaign speeches he tore into the BJP for not delivering on its promise of "acchhe din" or "better days".
 
 "The seasons have come and gone, winter, summer, spring and fall, has anyone seen 'better days' at all?" Akhilesh asked. "We (Congress and SP) are working together for the future of the state, the future of the state's development and the future of the youth of the state," Akhilesh said.
 
 When asked about the 
  , Rahul waved away any talk of hard feelings from their hard-fought alliance from over a week ago.
 
 "That was just posturing on both our parts. Let me tell you something about politics. Posturing is part of negotiation. You people think we are very angry with each other but it was nothing like that. We were sending friendly texts to each other all through," Rahul said about himself and Akhilesh.
 
 The Congress also called their alliance historic.
 
 "This is a historic alliance. I view it as a partnership...Akhilesh, myself and our parties' senior leaders working together towards the goal of defeating fascist forces and the politics of division," he said.
 
 
