You  , eat healthy and try to take good care of your health. Still for some apparently
 unexplainable reason, you have high blood pressure. In some cases,   can be triggered by a primary health condition that you might not even know you have, like hypothyroidism or hyperthyroidism. One of the surprising symptoms of improper thyroid gland function is high blood pressure; treating an underlying thyroid disorder may aid to resolve your high blood pressure problem.

 Various   are being used by body to communicate and coordinate with different body parts. For example, to continue regular and proper  , hormones co-ordinate with heart to pump harder due to increased demand of blood supply, tell your blood vessels when to compress or widen as per the body's situation. Tri-iodothyronine (T3) hormone secreted by thyroid gland is plays a complex role and it has both indirect and direct impact on the blood vessel network including heart. Thus, proper thyroid function is necessary for proper cardiovascular function.
 
 When thyroid gland functions abnormally, it disturbs normal cardiovascular function. Abundant clinical studies have recognized this underlying cause, showing that hyperthyroidism (overactive thyroid) and hypothyroidism (underactive thyroid) are linked with raised blood pressure. Around one-third of individuals with hyperthyroidism have systolic hypertension, and about 20% of people with hypothyroidism have systolic and diastolic hypertension. Thyroid gland needs iodine for thyroid hormone production. An imbalance in iodine, too much or too little of it can cause or worsen hypothyroidism and hyperthyroidism. Iodine comes into the body, mostly via diet, such as dairy, chicken, beef, pork, fish, and iodized salt.
 
 Screen your thyroid function regularly. The good news is, if you have secondary hypertension caused by a thyroid problem, getting your thyroid hormone levels back to normal will usually bring your blood pressure back to normal as well.
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
