Splashes, thumping music and loud cheers — this was the scene at a pool in a hotel in Kochi as dance and fitness enthusiasts gathered to test the waters of  . The event, a first-of-its-kind in Kerala, also saw international fitness trainers Maria Browning from Columbia, Sucheta Pal and Shweta Pratap Singh motivating the participants.

 The ladies were initially completely clueless about the dance moves, but the infectious energy of the trainers along with their guidance had them grooving in the water in no time. Aswathy Jose, an employee in a financial services company, says her friends Cynthia Zacharia, Latha Parameshwaran, Vimala Jose and she had a whale of a time in the pool.
 
 “We have been regulars at our zumba classes. But doing it in water was totally a unique experience,” says Aswathy. “Also because we have limited space, the movements have to be restrained and hence are more effective.”
 Another advantage of the aquatic exercise, Cynthia says, is that people with aches and pregnant women can also practise it with ease in water. “You also use your arms extensively in aqua zumba.”
 
 On what makes aqua zumba attractive for many, Maria, who has trained close to 50,000 instructors around the world, says, “It combines the philosophy of zumba with water resistance. Also, since you are doing the exercises in water, it keeps your body temperature on the cooler side thereby making it effective for those with arthritis or other inflammatory diseases.”
 
 When compared to traditional exercises, aqua zumba offers double the benefits, Maria says. “When you do a bicep curl in the gym, the muscle works on the way up and relaxes when coming back to the rest position. However, in water, on the way down you are also working out your triceps,” she says. “That’s because the resistance of water is approximately 12 times that of air and simply executing the steps will require more energy and it will burn more calories than it would on land.”
 
 While an aquatic exercise uses resistance to get the desired results, trainer Shweta says, “There’s less impact on the joints compared to traditional exercises. So, you actually end up working out more and that too with less strain. You are having more fun while every step you take is toning your muscles.”
 
