CHENNAI:   has acquired UK-based  , an   service provider with deep domain expertise and industry experience in assessing, implementing and managing automation solutions. The acquisition strengthens Accenture’s capabilities as a leading provider of intelligent automation services, the company said. Terms of the transaction were not disclosed.
 
 Genfour’s automation professionals will join the Accenture Operations global Intelligent Automation team and be a part of the new Accenture Center of Excellence for Intelligent Automation in the  .
  
 “Intelligent automation is transforming the way businesses across industries operate, driving new levels of productivity, innovation, compliance, quality user experiences and improved decision making,” said Manish Sharma, group operating officer, Accenture Operations. 
 
 “With a strong track record of building and managing flexible, scalable automation solutions, Genfour’s highly skilled professionals will help accelerate the transformation and re-engineering of our clients’ business processes through intelligent automation, enhancing our ability to deliver on the promise of as-a-Service.”
  
 Accenture has trained more than 70,000 professionals on new architectures, intelligent platforms and automation over the past year. To date, automation solutions have been implemented for more than 80% of the clients of Accenture Operations, the company said.
 
 “With growing demand for intelligent automation solutions, we’re excited to be joining Accenture to help build better automated processes and tackle complex process opportunities for clients,” said  , CEO, Genfour. “We look forward to continuing to help clients use automation to successfully implement a digital workforce that can ultimately improve both internal operational efficiencies and customer experience.”
  
 Founded in 2012, Genfour is a privately held company headquartered in Cwmbran, in Wales, the UK, serving clients across multiple industries, most notably in insurance, banking and utilities.
 
 With artificial intelligence and other new age technologies, corporates are increasingly looking towards automation to drive revenues and lower costs. While this is putting human workforce at risk, automation is also pushing professionals to upskill and self-learn in order to remain significant in their company’s workforce.
 
 
