NAGPUR: Desperation was evident on and off the field as   were playing   to stay alive in the tournament. It was a must-win game for Rahul Brothers to avoid playing a relegation league of   on Tuesday.

 Rahul’s coach Chritopher Peter was on his feet and kept shouting at his players throughout the regulation time. The players, however, kept disappointing the coach by messing- up the chances many a times.
 
 Meanwhile, their defender Rajat Yerpul committed a hand-ball inside the box which resulted in penalty kick for Blues, which was converted by Sajjad in the 34th minute. Sajjad’s goal ensured 1-0 win for Nagpur Blues, which was also their second in the league.
 
 Rahul players failed to carry the ball in the rival’s box; they easily allowed the Blues’ defence line to snatch the ball from them. When the possession was lost, the Rahul coach showed more disappointment than the players on the field.
 
 Chritopher, who plays for Rahul Sanskrutyayan as the striker in the   and is regarded as a promising young referee of the city, tried his best to inspire the players from the sidelines. But it had little impact on the outcome of the match. Chritopher kept pushing his players till match referee Yogesh Yesur blew the final whistle.
 
 The experienced midfield of Blues led by Mohd Ilyas, who was well-complemented by Sajjad, made the life difficult for young boys of Rahul. There was a twist in the script when Rahul, who were dominated in the first-half, changed the gear after the break.
 
 Bhuvan Jerpot, who replaced Mihir Nayak as the striker, and his partner Siddharth Maghade tried to infuse life into Rahul ranks. They moved quickly in the penalty area as left winger   created good moves one after the other.
 
 Pranay not only carried the ball in search of an equilizer but was also quick to regain his position in the midfield. On more than one occasion he tackled Blues’ midfielder Mohd Ali and striker Arbaz after speaheading Rahul’s foray into the rival half. During one of Pranay’s cross passes in the 76th minute, two players couldn’t reach the ball as Rahul Brothers missed third chance after the breather.
 
