KOLHAPUR: The Radhangari-based   is organising a Kajva Prakash Utsav or fireflies festival on May 26 at  , 45km to the southwest of the city.

 This one-of-a-kind festival is scheduled on a moonless night to with lakhs of fireflies illuminating their light in the jungle. According to a club member, fireflies are found in abundance on trekking routes on wild fruits around the   district and are a major draw for tourists.
 
 Samrat Kerkar, a member of the club, said that one can easily spot fireflies after the first pre-monsoon showers and they remain active till the monsoon starts.
 
 “The moonless night will be extra special for tourists and adventurers who have never witnessed the phenomenon. We expect many visitors and hope they will spread the word regarding the flora and fauna here,” he said. 
 
 Rakesh Kerkar, an associate of the Bison nature club said wild fruits such as blackberries and mangoes are found in plenty if one can roam around Radhanagari.
 
 “It basically depends on the tourists on what they want to see. Many come here just to have a taste of the local fare. We have some friends who prepare homemade food cooked in the traditional way. This is something one can never get at any fancy restaurant,” he said. 
 
 Speaking on different tourism initiatives, the founder of Kolhapur-based  , said they held various trekking activities on the Amba-Vishalgad road, a 13-km-stretch surrounded by lush foliage.
 
 “One can’t get to know about nature through social media or videos. It has to be experienced in the moment. Through nature, one gets to know about the wonders that we are gifted with on earth. The Western Ghats, for example, is like a dream come true for the nature lovers and tourists,” he said.
 
 He added that many activities are slated to start once the monsoon starts for local trek enthusiasts. “Visitors must make sure their visit does not disturb or harm the local life cycle in anyway. There are still many unexplored locations in the Western Ghats and it is in a way better for the nature to be left untouched,” he said.
 
