MEERUT: BSP chief   on Friday took on Congress for allying with the ruling   in Uttar Pradesh, asking how can it call itself “secular” when it has joined hands with Akhilesh Yadav’s party, under whose nose “500 riots” took place.
 Addressing public gatherings in Etah, Meerut and Muzaffarnagar districts, the BSP chief attacked the ruling party over “bad” law and order situation.
 
  “If SP comes to power again, incidents like Muzaffarnagar riots, Mathura violence will be repeated. The truth remains that SP promotes jungle raj, corruption and hooliganism in its rule. A total of 500 riots took place during the SP rule and its chief ministerial face is a ‘daagi chehra’ (tainted face).
 
  Interestingly, Mayawati promised not to make any statues when in power.
 
  “I assure that if BSP comes to power, we will not make any stone statues and neither will distribute laptop and mobile. We will provide direct financial support to the needy and continue to protect the interest of poor, farmers and oppressed communities,” she said.
 
  “Now, you have to decide whether you want to vote for a ‘daagi chehra’ or a ‘bedaag chehra’ (clean face). If you want to stop riots, vote for BSP,” said Mayawati at her rally in Muzaffarnagar on Friday.
 
  She also raked up last year’s Mathura violence. “Last year, two police officers were killed in Mathura’s Jawarhabagh clash over land encroachment,” she said.
 
  “There is a sense of insecurity among people. But, instead of addressing the problem of law and order and development, the incumbent government is pouring hundreds of crores to manage media,” the former chief minister alleged.
 
  She also made a fervent appeal to the Muslim community to vote for BSP.
 
  “The internal feud of SP will benefit BJP. Insulted   will go against Akhilesh. So people, especially of the minority community, should not vote them. They should vote us as by voting the SP they will directly benefit the BJP,” Mayawati said.
 
  She also slammed the BJP, saying that it will abolish reservation.
 
  “Our credible sources have told us that if BJP comes to power in UP, they will abolish reservation. Under the BJP rule at the Centre, minorities are being seen as terrorist, the party is working on RSS ideology,” she said.
