BENGALURU: Bengaluru will meet two critical combat clothing needs of the Army, bullet-proof jackets (BPJs), which it has been trying to procure since 2009, and coats for extreme cold climates (coats-ECC) for those posted in areas like Siachen.

 While the   Advanced Materials Limited (TAML), which won the tender for supply of 50,000 bullet-proof jackets (BPJs) in 2016 had a deadline of March 30, 2017, Gokaldas Exports has bagged an order for 3.03 lakh coats-ECC, and production is on. Both firms manufacture in Bengaluru.
 
 “The company has already delivered 40,000 jackets to the MoD (ministry of defence) and will send another 10,000 a few days before the deadline,” a   spokesperson told TOI. 
 
 Sources confirmed that the complete order has already been delivered, though the Army still needs about 3 lakh more BPJs. 
 
 “The MoD has the option to place an order for another 25,000 BPJs, and the company can support further requirement. It has gone to great lengths to ensure quality of these jackets by subjecting them to various tests,” the Tata spokesperson said.
 
 On whether the firm is importing two critical components, the spokesperson said the hard armour and soft armour plates are imported from top European suppliers to ensure best quality is available to soldiers. “In future, the company intends to develop its own capabilities to make lighter and higher performance jackets. We are in touch with international experts in this field, and will welcome the opportunity to work with relevant authorities in India to set a roadmap for building capabilities that would ultimately benefit the soldiers,” the spokesperson said. 
 
 Ordnance factory’s loss
 
 The order to make 3,03,900 Coats-ECC, sources in South Block said, was given to Gokaldas after the Ordnance Clothing Factory (OCF), Avadi, in  , failed to supply the required coats. “There were issues of manpower and other challenges. However, now the cost is also cheaper than what it would cost at OCF,” sources said.
 
 The managing director of Gokaldas was not reachable. To an email, the MD’s personal assistant,  , said the firm could not immediately comment.
 
