Chandigarh: The National Council for Teachers Education ( ) has extended the date for enrolment in the Diploma in Elementary Education (DEl Ed) from September 15 to 30 for in-service teachers. It has also been clarified that all teachers with bachelor in education will not have to enrol in the 18-month DEl Ed as a bridge course which was under consideration till last week, as reported by TOI, has almost been finalized and details for same will be available in October first week. All such teachers teaching elementary classes, especially classes I-V will have to enrol for the bridge course after October 9, the recent update states.

 Till last week the update in the ‘frequently asked questions’ section uploaded on the NIOS website had stated that “For teachers who are graduates with BEd and want to teach at primary level (class I-V) a six-month bridge course recognized by NCTE is under consideration.”
 
 However, it now states that “all such teachers must also register on NIOS portal after October 9.”
 
 Hardeep Singh, assistant director, regional centre, Chandigarh, said, “All teachers with BEd do not have to enrol in this18-month course,” he said.
 
 Talking about teachers who have BEd but have enrolled in 18-months course, he said, “Details for all those teachers who have enrolled, keeping the deadline of September 15 in mind, will be available after September 30 which is the extended deadline for enrolment in D. El Ed. It will be clarified only then that whether their fees will be adjusted and course will be shifted or fee will be refunded and they will have to enrol again after October 9.”
 
 National Council for Teachers Education (NCTE) has directed National Institute for Open Schooling (NIOS) to prepare the bridge course.
 
 “NIOS has already prepared the bridge course and it will be recognized by NCTE shortly. At present, there is no bridge course recognized by NCTE in the country,” said Tarun Punia, state coordinator, Chandigarh.
 
 The bridge course is going to be a course that will update teachers with current teaching methodologies and will be practical-based. So will be the 18-month DEl Ed, officials informed.
 
 She informed that so far 232 teachers from Chandigarh, 1,667 from Punjab, 825 from Haryana, 4,602 from Jammu and Kashmir and 1,716 teachers from Himachal Pradesh have registered for the 18 month long DEl Ed course.
 
 On Wednesday, NCTE extended the date for registration to September 30 from September 15. “This is a recent update and was much needed as the server was congested and there was too much chaos at the centres,” Hardeep said.
 
 
