The alarm rings at 7am. He immediately hits snooze button. The four-hour sleep was simply not enough, as he had to attend to the admitted patients till late on Sunday night.

 But he thinks of the long list of patients waiting at the OPD of Government College and Hospital (GMCH). Some might need immediate attention, he thinks. He immediately gets out of bed, chooses to wear a blue shirt and gets ready. After skipping breakfast, he steps out the MARD hostel with a stethoscope hanging from his neck and wears the apron on his way to the OPD.
 
 Meet Dr Varun Khurana (name changed) from Bhandara, who is pursuing MD in medicine (1st year) and is a resident doctor in the medicine department of GMCH.
 
 He says, “It’s that time of the week when I have to perform non-stop duty for 40 hours in the medicine department. All this while, I will be sitting at OPD for six hours, followed by my ward duty simultaneously at the male and female wards. I can be seen wandering across the ward, keeping track of all the patients and answering their relatives’ queries.”
 
 “Half of my time is gone coping up with the work that should have technically been done by the nurses and attendants. In between, I might have a meal if time permits. In short, I am supposed to be capable of more than an average human being,” he says.
 
 By 8am, the resident doctor arrives at the OPD. He begins his day by seeing a 50-year-old paralytic patient from Amravati, whom he had to admit immediately. Around 10am, he feels hungry but the endless queue of patients wouldn’t let him even breathe. He says, “I am running 30 minutes late, trying to catch up and preparing for the inevitable and surprises that pop up.”
 
 On his instructions, the attendant takes one of the patients he saw to admit in the ward around 11am. At 1pm, he wonders where that attendant had gone after admitting the patient. He says, “Things become tough because of fewer attendants assisting us. Even the existing ones are inactive.”
 
 After his OPD duties end at 2 pm, he thinks of having lunch, but one of the paralytic patients who arrives suddenly forces him to go straight to ward No. 26 (female medicine ward). He finally gets to eat something at 4.45pm, that too in a rush, since many of the patients’ relatives are awaiting his guidance.
 
 He says, “I am fine with briefing the relatives. What bothers me is that new relatives of patients arrive every other hour. They all want to hear the entire story again and again. It eats up a lot of time.”
 
 Forget about brushing his teeth. With no food and sleep, it becomes extremely difficult for him to function the next morning. However, he is trying his level best to keep himself in his senses.
 
 Before the 8pm round of his seniors, he starts compiling files of the patients for presentation. He has been multitasking all this while. While doing the paper work and rendering treatment, his job is made even more difficult due to lack of nurses and attendants. At times, he is seen taking out patient’s bloods, giving it for sampling, going to the bank for specifying blood requirement and issuing blood from there.
 
 The next day is no better. After spending a sleepless night, he’s on his toes again at 11am when one of the patients had to be shifted to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU). To make matters worse, there is no attendant to carry the patient on the stretcher. He asks the sweeper on duty at the ward to help him shift the patient. However, the sweeper refuses saying that it’s not his job.
 
 Without wasting a moment, he along with other residents take the emergency patient to the ICU. “All the time we could spend on giving quality treatment to the patients is gone because of lack of assisting staff,” he says. Right from morning till 2pm, none of the attendants can be seen at the ward.
 
 Around 2pm, as he is about to collect blood from a patient, a person whose father has just been discharged, asks him to make someone assist him in shifting his father to a wheelchair and carry him downstairs.
 
 The doctor points towards a wheelchair kept outside the ward and asks the person to do the task himself. The distressed relative gives him a hard look and goes away. Dr Khurana says, “I might have given him the wrong impressing. At times, relatives are not at fault when they get aggressive since most of the work, which is supposed to be done by staffers, have to be executed by the relatives. Here, the relatives are asked to pull stretchers, take the patients for diagnosis, and even change their clothes. Who wouldn’t get frustrated by all this?”
 
 “I might finish my duty at 10pm, if the conditions are favourable. All the Mondays and Tuesdays are like this. We at least get to eat and sleep in the rest of the week,” he says.
 
 “The last time I got leave, that too for three days, was in October-end on Diwali. Before that, I was granted a four-day leave in June when I was accidentally pricked by a needle while performing RBS on an HIV positive patient. I required 28 days of virus therapy, which is extremely heavy and creates hallucination as well. Ideally, I should have rested for all the 28 days, but the college gave me four-day leave, that too if I take therapy from GMCH,” he adds.
 
 
