
CHENNAI: The way to the   has become familiar for 27-year-old Selvi*. So has the wave of   every time she nears the building at the end of her street. One of the three   who raped her five-year-old daughter stays there.
  
 On Monday, she was back at the station, a year since she lodged a complaint against the 15-year-olds, including a pair of twins. This time she had come to seek protection. "Every time I carry her to school, the boys stand on the road and make animal noises. It makes her cringe," said Selvi, who stopped working as a domestic help to be with her daughter. 
  
 The child was assaulted at a government pre-school off ECR last year. The teacher and an attendant had marked attendance and left the children with the latter's grandson. The boy invited the two other accused, lured a few children and sexually assaulted them.
 
 Kanaga*, Selvi's daughter, was raped. "Not once, multiple times," said the young mother, breaking down. She had noticed bruises around the child's genitalia. "I thought they were rashes. I took her to a hospital where the doctor told me they were nail marks," said Selvi. When she asked Kanaga, the child refused to talk. "She would just cry. It was only after I cried and assured her that I would protect her, she told me what had happened," said Selvi.
 
 
 Every time the students were left under the supervision of the accused, the boys allegedly sexually assaulted the children. Selvi said other parents were reluctant to lodge a complaint fearing stigma. It took five months to register Selvi's complaint under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (Pocso). A year on, the boys are out on bail. The chargesheet was filed only last month. 
  
 V Kannadasan, the child's lawyer, said, Kanaga's ordeal is the story of many Pocso cases. "In this case, there was a lot of delay . It took five months to make all the arrests," he said. 
  
 For the second time in less than a year, Selvi has approached police for help as the boys continue to harass the family . "My daughter is scared to go to school," she said. The child suffers from frequent night terrors. "She wakes up crying, saying the annas are coming for her," said Selvi. 
  
  
  When TOI contacted the police, concerned, they said the juveniles had been warned. "We can't do anything more as the accused are minors," said an officer.
  
 Girija Kumarbabu, a member of the Juvenile Justice Board, Chennai, said although the state doesn't have a programme to protect survivors, the board advises the accused to move from the survivor's locality. "Survivors' families can also give a representation to the JJB for a new bail condition,” she said. 
  
 Selvi is hopeful. "If I give up, I won't be letting down my daughter alone, but all the children in the school who were too afraid to talk."
 
 
