JAIPUR: Scrutiny of records of   by Controller and Auditor General of India (CAG) validated the rampant corruption existing in the department. Findings indicated that officials in cahoots with mine owners in flouting norms and giving undue benefits to them. 

 In the audit, it was observed that applicants were granted mining leases even when they failed to provide the mandatory documents. Report noted that in 32 cases investigated, the signatures on the application forms and affidavits did not match with documents furnished. 
 
 CAG audit was conducted during October 2015 to March 2016 as part of audit of receipt and expenditure of   earning departments. Report was placed before the assembly on Tuesday. 
 
 In Udaipur district, department accepted and processed nine applications for grant of leases belonging to one family even though these applications were not accompanied with requisite documents. Apart from improper vetting of documents, there was an inordinate delay in attending the shortcoming of documents. 
 
 Hinting towards major irregularities, CAG mentioned that there was complete lack of transparency in how department operated. For instance, minister and minerals act clearly mentions that applicant whose application was received earlier shall have a preferential right. 
 
 However, it was found that the disposal of allocations received by the concerned mining engineers was not in accordance with their date of receipts. In 315 out of 382 cases, rule was not followed. And in 114 cases the priority was broken at draftsman level. 
 
 Corrupt officials not even hesitated in snatching   in the state. Colluding with influential mine owners, mining engineer office in Banswara handed over 16 mining leases of minor minerals in tribal areas to non-tribal persons. 
 
 The report pointed at how department encourages   by not allotting the area despite having proved reserves. In Nagaur, CAG found that five blocks having reserves of 671.52 million ton of lime stone were notified yet no applications for allotment were invited. Similalry, department failed to delineates and auction the lease of Bajari in Bikaner, leaving wide scope for illegal and unauthorized mining in the area. 
 
