GURUGRAM: The BJP’s manifesto, released on Saturday for the upcoming   elections, had little new to offer.

 Out of the total 26 promises made, only one — creating hostels for working women and crèche — was new, while the rest were repackaged.
 
 Releasing the manifesto, state   president Subhash Barala listed out some projects, which, in fact, lie outside the domain of MCG. These include moderinisation of the Gurgaon railway station, shifting of Kherki Daula toll plaza and an elevated U-turn near Ambience Mall.
 
 “We are 100% sure that we will win over 30 seats. Opposition parties like  , are finding it difficult to have adequate number of candidates to contest all the seats, while the   is a divided lot. A few days ago, the state Congress chief announced that the party would contest on its symbol, but his decision was overruled,” he added.
 
 Of the other promises listed in the manifesto, work on some of them is already going on. Repair and maintenance of drainage system, preventing roads from getting damaged, use of modern technology for improving sanitation, rejuvenation of ponds, introducing city bus services, rainwater harvesting system, regularisation of unauthorised colonies, public convenience at the main bus stand, a cultural centre in Sector 53, a hospital in Sector 67, affordable canteens for the poor, CCTV cameras across the city, LED streetlights are among the old promises that have been reiterated.
 
 The party also claimed that it would try to make MCG a paperless office by provide online services.
 
 Moreover, it claimed it would work closely with RWAs and try to address problems of sewage and electricity in the restricted 900m radius of the IAF ammunition depot in Old Gurgaon. It said it would also set up sewage treatment plants across the city and introduce more sporting facilities.
 
 At the launch, the BJP tried to put up a united face by bring in Gurgaon MP Rao Inderjit and Badshapur MLA Rao Naribir on the same platform. Inderjit though hurriedly left the event the moment it got over.
 
 Barala also denied the allegation that caste factor played any role in distribution of party tickets for the MCG  . “BJP does not believe in caste politics and whoever has got a ticket this time is by the virtue of his or her ability to win the election and has done considerable work on ground,” he said.
 
 
