GUNTUR: Unidentified miscreants, suspected to be activists of the Madiga Reservation Porata Samithi (MRPS), set a police van on fire near Kantheru village on the   late on Friday night. The incident left the police shocked as the assailants made good their escape under the cover of darkness even before the security personnel arrived on the scene.

 Fire tenders reached the spot immediately and controlled the flames. The van was used to transport the   (RAF) personnel to the venue of MRPS public meeting. 
 
 The police had a tough time controlling the MRPS activists as they strategically came out of their hideouts and resorted to flash protests on the highway. They confronted with the police almost at all the points and entered into heated arguments. Finally, the security personnel heaved a sigh of relief when no activist turned up at the venue till evening. 
 
 The protests rocked the national highway till late in the night as the activists moved onto the highway in groups. The traffic on the national highway came to a grinding halt for over three hours following angry protests by MRPS activists who raised slogans against the state government and chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu. Scores of activists suddenly came out of RTC buses at the toll plaza near Kaza and staged a flash dharna demanding immediate classification of SCs.
 
 Caught unawares by the sudden development, the police rushed towards the activists and bundled them into police vans. The situation turned tense as the protesters confronted with the police questioning their ‘high-handed’ action. While some activists came out of the agriculture fields near Nambur, a few others came from the ANU campus. Although the activists were not numerically not so strong, their tactics had shocked the police as they had kept a strict vigil on almost all routes between Guntur and Vijayawada for the past 48 hours. Police shifted the arrested activists to Thullur police station.
 
 Meanwhile, the activists of MRPS burnt the effigies of chief minister near Atchampet and Krosur when they were arrested by the local police. Hundreds of MRPS workers were detained at Pedakurapadu, Sattenapalle, Machelra and Gurazala. Urban SP Vijaya Rao and other senior police officials monitored the situation.
 
 Over the phone,   told TOI that the state government should immediately release an action plan to classify Scheduled Castes (SCs). He criticised chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu for pressurising Madiga leaders in the cabinet into not extending support to the MRPS’ movement.
 
 “Naidu took a Mala leader in the cabinet by sacking a man from the Madiga community. He gifted corporation posts to Mala leaders Jupudi Prabhakara Rao and Karem Sivaji, who campaigned against the TDP in the last elections. The CM dumped MRPS which worked for his comeback to power,” he fumed. He also faulted excise minister K S Jawahar and housing corporation chairman   for speaking against the Madiga movement.
 
