AGRA: Kith and kin of over 20 prominent  , cutting across party lines, are set to try their luck in the ensuing   in the state. And this number is likely to go up as the major political players in the state, including Congress, SP and the BJP, are yet to announce candidates for several seats.

 The BJP, a staunch critic of Congress's dynastic politics, leads in this race with at least 15 kith and kin of its leaders in fray for the polls. The party has so far declared 370 candidates and the list of the remaining 33 is expected soon.
 
 Prominent BJP leader's who have fielded their kin include Union home minister,  , whose son Pankaj has been allotted a ticket, veteran party leader and Rajasthan Governor, Kalyan Singh, whose third generation, his grandson, Sandeep Singh, makes his political debut and Kairana MP, Hukum Singh, whose daughter Mriganka, is contesting the polls.
 
 SP, which incidentally is a dubbed a "family party" with almost all the family members of supremo, Mulayam Singh Yadav, in politics, would witness the sonrise of Abdullah Azam, son of party strongman and Muslim face, Azam Khan. Besides others, Aparna Yadav, wife of Mulayam Singh Yadav's second son Prateek, was on Monday fielded by   from Lucknow Cantt constituency. 
 
 Other leaders from BJP who have managed tickets of their near and dear ones include Prateek Bhushan, son of mafia don-turned Gonda MP Brij Bhushan Sharan Singh, has got the BJP ticket from Gonda assembly constituency, Ashutosh Tandon, sitting MLA and son of senior BJP leader Lalji Tandon, will contest from Lucknow east, Sidharth Nath Singh, grandson of Prime Minister  , Kunwar Sushant Singh, son of BJP’s MP Moradabad, Kunwar Sarvesh Kumar Singh, Varanasi Cantonment sitting MLA Jyotsna Srivastava managed to get a ticket for her son Saurabh, BJP’s Bansgaon MP Kamlesh Paswan’s brother Vimlesh (Bansgaon), Salempur MP Ravindra Kushwaha’s brother Jainath (Bhatpar Rani), Former BJP state president, Om Prakash Singh’s son, Anurag Singh (Chunar in Mirzapur), BJP leader.
 
 Even son of  , Utkarsh, who has got the BJP ticket from Unchahar assembly constituency and Ajit Tyagi, son of Rajpal, a former minister in the Mayawati-led government from Murad Nagar constituency. Rajpal had contested the 2012 elections as an SP member but lost to the BSP candidate.
 
 BSP leaders who have managed tickets for their kin are Muzzafarnagar's former MP kadir Rana's wife, Syed Begum, Former BSP minister, Ramveer Upadhyaya's brother Mukul, BSP Rajya Sabha MP, Veer Singh's son Vivek Singh, Nawab Kokab Hameed’s son Ahmad hameed got ticket from Baghpat.
 
 Congress, which is playing a second fiddle to the SP in the polls, has so far announced 43 candidates for the 105 seats that its contesting. Leaders who have managed to secure tickets for their family members are former MP, Zafar Ali Nakvi's son, Saif Ali, former minister and sitting Palwal MLA, Karan Dalal's son, Uday Dalal.
 
 Interestingly while political leaders do not get tired of criticizing their opponents for promoting family hegemony, they speak in the same tone when it comes defending themselves. Rajnath Singh's son, Pankaj, sees no harm in children of politicians stepping into their parents shoes. 
 
 "I have been connected with the party for the last 15 years and what i have achieved is due to my work in the party", he says. He said getting into politics due to ones parents standing is not enough, as one has to be closely connected to ground realities and party's ideologies. 
 
 Sandeep, Kalyan Singh's grandson and son of Etah MP, Rajveer Singh, says, "there is nothing wrong in children of politicians entering politics. "My entire family including my parents have been in politics so it was only logical for me to make this jump", he says adding the ultimately the politician's success depends on his performance and not due to the family legacy.
 
 Spokesperson of Samajwadi party, Naved Siddiqui said there is nothing wrong in dynastic politics. “If a doctor’s son can become a doctor why can't a politician’s son become a politician". He said if "netaji" (MSY) had wanted, he could have sent his his daughter in law directly to Rajya Sabha, but he is making her contest the polls. "Its the public which would decide her fate", he said.
 
 Incidentally, MSY family has twenty members of his family in politics - five Lok Sabha members, one Rajya Sabha member, one state lawmaker, two legislative council members and several others in lower-level political posts. 
 
