Chandigarh: The special investigation team (SIT), probing the allegations of women having been raped at Murthal near Sonipat during the 2016 Jat agitation for reservation, has not found any victim related to the incident. The SIT made this submission before the Punjab and Haryana high court during the resumed hearing of the case on Thursday.

 Earlier, the HC had taken suo motu cognizance of a media report regarding the alleged incident of rapes during the Jat quota stir.
 
 When the matter related to Murthal came up for hearing before the division bench comprising Justice S S Saron and Justice Avneesh Jhingan, SIT chief and inspector general of police (IGP) Mamta Singh submitted the investigation report in a sealed cover to the bench.
 
 A copy of the report was also provided to senior advocate Anupam Gupta, who is assisting the HC as amicus curiae. After going through the report, Gupta told the court, “There is no new input in the SIT report even after one and half years of investigation and they are washing only their hands.”
 
 He further said that report has made it clear that they have failed to find any victim and this report is a “final no” from SIT on the issue.
 
 Further seeking HC directions to hand over the Murthal rape case issue to CBI, Gupta said, “Let the CBI investigate the matter and say no on the issue. I will be satisfied, if the premier agency probes the issue and even finds nothing of the issue.”
 
 Hearing that, the bench fixed August 17 for arguments in the case.
 
 Justice Saron also ordered that the SIT report be handed over to Gupta for preparation of his arguments on the issue. The bench, however, specifically asked him not to share the contents of the report with anyone.
 
 Earlier in December 2016, the HC had allowed the Haryana government to prosecute the reporter of an online portal for fabricating a story regarding the alleged rape of a minor girl. The reporter had recorded the voice of one of his relatives and had presented it as statement of a mother of some victim allegedly raped at Murthal during the agitation.
 
 In August 2016, the SIT had informed the HC that allegation of an Australian NRI woman raped at Murthal were also found false during the investigations as she had not even traveled to Murthal on that day. The SIT had stated that records taken from the Foreign Regional Registration Office (FRRO) and the Air India revealed that she had stayed at a hotel inside the Delhi airport on the intervening night of February 21 and 21, 2016 and was not travelling to Murthal when the alleged incident of rape had taken place. She had reached Amritsar by air next day from Delhi.
 
 The SIT had also found that one Surjeet Gagg from Punjab, another witness about anonymous letter regarding Australian women having been raped at Murthal, had also deposed before the court that the letter was his “figment of his imagination” and was posted on social media after reading the news reports about women being raped near Murthal.
 
 Meanwhile, the counsel for the CBI, Sumeet Goel, informed the HC on Thursday that the agency had registered a case and had taken over the investigation to probe the incident related to breach of Munak Canal near Sonipat. The breach also took place during the February 2016 Jat violence.
 
 
