Noida: More than 60 women ransacked two liquor shops in   on Monday in a bid to “send a message to the prime minister” that increasing incidents of   was due to alcoholism. 

 The hour-long rampage concluded with the detention of six villagers — two women and four men.
 
 Armed with sticks, the women, along with nearly 15 youths from the village, threw dozens of   out of the shops, which were later set ablaze by them. Both the shops, run by Accurate Food and Beverages Private Limited, are located near the cremation ground of Barola village.
 
 The agitated women insisted that men in their families return home drunk every day and inflicted violence. They said they have formed a group and would not allow any liquor shop to run in the village. 
 
 There are at least six liquor shops in the village, according to the locals.
 
 “(Prime Minister) Modi ji is doing good work. But we want to send across a message to him so that the government acts against the liquor shops operating in Barola. We will not allow any of the liquor shops to operate within a distance of 500 metres from the village,” Vimla Devi, one of the protesters, told TOI. 
 
 Some youth could be seen cheering the women as they threw the alcohol bottles outside the shops, while others made video recordings of the incident.
 
 The ransacking lasted about an hour till 2.30pm when cops from Sector 49 police station reached the spot and tried to placate the villagers. 
 
 Following a complaint filed by a salesman of one of the shops, an FIR was filed against nine persons.
 
 The police earlier detained two women but released them after a group of women protested outside the police station. Later, six villagers were detained.
 
 “Six persons have been detained in the case so far. These include two women and four men. Two people have been identified who will be arrested by tonight,” SP (City) Dinesh Yadav told TOI.
 
 Police, however, said the entire incident was videographed and only the villagers seen in the video would be arrested.
 
 On Sunday, a group of villagers, mostly women, from Dadri area had protested against the liquor shops operating on the main Dadri road which passes through the main market of the town.
 
 Last month, women in Varanasi too held a protest demanding that liquor shops operating in the temle town be closed.
 
 
