Chandigarh: The Congress government’s appeal to farmers not to repay their loans to banks has a new casualty. Close on the heels of banks refusing agri loans, now even arhtiyas (commission agents) say they are “increasingly hesitant” in giving fresh advances out of fear that farmers may not pay them back.

 The president of the 35,000-member Punjab Arhtiya Association, Ravinder Singh Cheema, told TOI that they were not forwarding advances to farmers because now even “big farmers” were not repaying bank loans. He described the state government’s appeal to farmers not to repay their loans as “playing havoc with the agri-economy of the state”. “Farmers who would have otherwise repaid their loans, have now decided not to do so in view of the debt waiver. This is putting more pressure on commission agents,” he said.
 
 “Cooperative banks are running out of credit; on other hand, though commercial banks are not saying it on record, they are hesitant to make new farmers’ advances. Because of this, the pressure on commission agents has gone up. The tendency to default is also affecting us. Only farmers in dire need of money are being given advances on priority. When banks don’t help, it is the arhtiyas who come to their rescue,” said Cheema. “We are giving fresh advances for only pressing circumstances and avoiding credit for usual social purposes. Farmers may not repay loans going by the current scenario,” he added.
 
 Apart from cooperative and commercial banks, the agents too have rued such a tendency by farmers, blaming it on the debt-waiver promise. According to the Punjab State-Level Bankers’ Committee (PSLBC), around 30% of farmers’ accounts with banks in the state had already turned bad by May-end and that had impacted loan recoveries.
 
 After banks stopped fresh lending to farmers for kharif crop, the PSLBC has urged the state government to look into the matter. “Farmers, even big ones, are not coming forward to repay their dues,” Chauhan said, adding that the situation was prevailing in the entire state. 
 
 Maximum “slippage” as far as loan recovery is concerned has been witnessed in the accounts of small and marginal farmers, he said. “Slippage in small and marginal farmers accounts have grown manifold,” he said. “Even though it is not sowing season right now, farmers need advance for various purposes, like motors conking off. Besides, some of the loans taken for agriculture are diverted for various social obligations of the farmers,” added Randhir Singh, a commission agent from Sangrur.
 
 Banks, agents to launch campaign
 
 The banks as well as the arhtiyas (commission agents) now plan to jointly launch a campaign to motivate farmers to make repayment in October. “Debt waiver has had a negative influence of farmers, who have been regular with payments. The need is to give other forms of subsidies to farmers,” said Punjab Arhtiya Association president Ravinder Singh Cheema.
 
 
