LUCKNOW: In a major shift in transfer policy for the police department, the DGP headquarters have, for the first time, sought the   of officers for   before shuffling them.

 To emerge as an officer-friendly dispensation, circle officers or deputy superintendent-rank officers were asked for a list of five districts where they wanted postings in case they were to be transferred. As expected, the national capital region emerged as the top choice.
 
 While Lucknow was at the third spot overall, the provincial police services cadre seem to have most liking for Noida followed by Ghaziabad. Meerut and Saharanpur were the next districts sought as preferred posting destinations. 
 
 In UP, DySPs serve as circle officers whose role is to directly supervise working of inspectors, sub-inspectors and constables posted under them. They act as the first gateway and set the benchmark of policing standards on the field.
 
 In the past six weeks, 448 DySPs of the total cadre strength of 695 have been transferred. The officials are not allowed postings in their home districts or in districts where they have spent three years or more. While analysing the requests, the DGP office accorded priority to married couples (13 in number) and ensured that most of them were posted in the same district.
 
 DGP Sulkhan Singh said that during interactions, it was found that most officers wanted to stay close to their families. 
 
 “It was noticed that many officers were opting for non-field postings in Lucknow as their children were studying here. While everyone’s plea cannot be considered, the ones whose children were appearing for board exams were approved,” said Singh.
 
 Besides generating an exhaustive database, the department also ensured that officers do not have to run behind politicians to build pressure in their favour. 
 
 NCR remained the top choice as officers in khaki wanted to send their children to premier educational institutes. People close to retirement opted to stay close to their home districts and in some cases were allowed home postings on health grounds. 
 
 Policy change 
 
 
 
 
 May 26 – 141 DySPs
 
 July 1 – 244 DySPs
 
 July 6 – 63 DySPs
 
 Most liked districts: 
 
 Noida, Ghaziabad, Lucknow, Meerut and Saharanpur 
 
