Vadodara: Kevadiya colony where ‘Statue of Unity’ is under construction will be connected to Vadodara through a broad gauge railway line.  Gauge conversion of 49.75km Dabhoi-Chandod railway line and its extension up to Kevadiya colony in Narmada district is one of the seven projects of gauge conversion and doubling in Vadodara railway division that has been sanctioned in the Union Budget recently.  At present, Vadodara is connected to Dabhoi through a broad gauge line in the eastern direction. Dabhoi is further connected to Chandod through a narrow gauge railway line.  “The narrow gauge line will be converted into broad gauge line and further it will be extended up to Kevadiya. For this Rs691.84 crore has been sanctioned in the budget,” said Amit Kumar Singh, divisional railway manager of Vadodara railway division.  “This will help in providing direct railway connectivity to Statue of Unity via Vadodara which will help tourists,” said Singh.  Similarly, gauge conversion projects of 24.08km Samni-Jambusar railway line at the cost of Rs216.72 crore, the 48.2km Jambusar-Vishwamitri railway line at the cost of Rs433.8 crore, the 53.53km Samlaya-Timba Road railway line at the cost of Rs401.48 crore, the 37.26km Nadiad-Petlad railway line at the cost of Rs335.34 crore and the 22.5km Petlad-Bhadran railway line at the cost of Rs202.5 crore have been sanctioned in the Union Budget. Also, doubling of Anand-Godhra line at the cost of Rs683 crore has been sanctioned.  “Another important work which has been included in the budget is segregation of Ahmedabad and Godhra which will help in decongestion at Vadodara railway station,” said Singh, adding that with the expansion and modernization of Memu car shed at Vadodara yard, the railways will be able to enhance capacity and increase coaches of Memu trains from present 12 car 30-rake holding to 16 car 30-rake holding.  “Works to extend or raise covered shed on 12 stations including Ankleshwar, Kosamba, Kim, Sayan, Miyagam-Karjan, Palej, Nabipur, Vadodara, Anand, Nadiad and Nenpur stations have also been included in the budget,” he said. 