Madurai: A day after the celestial wedding of Sri Meenakshi Sundareswarar, the grand car festival of Sri Meenakshi temple was held on Monday as the two wooden cars carrying the idols were pulled by devotees through the four Masi streets. 

 Lakhs of ardent devotees from in and around the district thronged the East, South, West and North Masi streets covering about 5 kms. A sizeable number of devotees came with children and waited unmindful of the scorching sun. The deities, Lord Sundareswarar and goddess Piriyavidai, who arrived on the five-tier wooden car and goddess Sri Meenakshi who came on another car in an interval of thirty minutes blessed the devotees. Legend has it that Lord Sundareswarar and goddess Sri Meenakshi are the king and queen of Madurai (Pandya Kingdom) and that they take out the procession on the cars to bless the people. 
 
 Before the car festival began, special pujas were performed for the deities at the temple early morning before the deities were brought to the cars decorated by flowers. Thousands of youths started pulling ‘vadam’ (rope used to pull the car) from ‘thermutti’ (a place where the cars stand) from 6 am and brought the cars to their base by 12.30 pm. 
 
 Car pullers M Ganesh of Vilangudi and S Azhagan of Thirumangalam said they never felt tired pulling the car. The slogans ‘Meenakshi Sundara – Mahadeva’, “Soma Sundara – Mahadeva”, “Hara Hara Sankara – Mahadeva”, “Sambo Sankara – Mahadeva”, “Kadambavana Sundara – Mahadeva” and “Aalala Sundara – Mahadeva” rent the air. Water, buttermilk and soft drinks were provided to the car pullers by the devotees. Many families served free foods in packets and plates to devotees. A Balaji (72) said, “Thirumular, one of 18 Siddhas, said food that is to be offered to either idol or photo of god will not go to god, but food that is given to the beings only will go to god. His saying is reflected in the free food distribution.”
 
 It is said that it was King Thirumalai Nayak who changed temple festival from Masi to   (Tamil months) in the 17th century to enable people from all walks of life, particularly farmers, to participate in the festival. The 12-day Chithirai festival that commenced on April 28 ends on Tuesday with Thirthamadal. 
 
 
