A Husain for the hallway, a panch aloha for the patio or an Art-Deco inspired atrium. Luxury hotels have always been inspired by art and commissioned work to go with the theme of the property . But some of them are now going beyond just styling, collaborating with galleries and artists to create dedicated spaces that display art. A few hotels have opened up their foyers or set up cafés where they host exhibitions, adding to the limited art display options in the city.

 “Very few people visit galleries as they are seen as places of specialised interest, which people are in awe of,“ says art critic Geeta Doctor, who believes hotels opening up their foyers for art is opening the minds of people.
 
 While most hotels have hosted auctions or a one-off show, not many have engaged with the art community on a regular basis. However, The Park Hyatt, Guindy, has hosted shows since its inception, through its association with Gallery Veda. “The hotel has many interesting permanent art pieces, which guests appreciate but when they visit us frequently there is no novelty. Having an art exhibition brings in a freshness and people have something to look forward to,“ says  , general manager, Park Hyatt.
 
 The hotel is showing the retrospective of Mumbai-based artist Seema Kohli for the next few months. And this time Kohli's paintings and sculptures are placed throughout the property. “We haven't restricted the work to a particular room or corner because we want to help visualise how it will look in someone's home,“ says Sharma.
 
 Across town, GRT Grand in Teynampet is the newest luxury establishment to open a separate café that also hosts art exhibitions.“Art enlivens the atmosphere and adds value to the overall experience. The Art Bistro is an extension of our commitment to the artists,“ says Shabin Sarvotham, general manager. Citybased artists   and A Viswam are part of the hotel's premiere show which began in November and was curated by   of Vanjula's Art Atrium.
 
 Every luxury hotel with its diverse, wellheeled customer base provides a visibility which is not possible in a gallery that is used to a niche crowd, feel artists. “A gallery is a good base for business, but an exhibition at a hotel helps create awareness about art,“ says abstract painter A Viswam. He doesn't feel the serious business of art is compromised in any way by having conferences or birthday celebrations at the same venue. “Making art accessible to the public is more important and an initiative like this will help develop an interest in art among the uninitiated,“ he says.
 
 The galleries though believe there may not be a remarkable rise in sales. The association with hotels attracts viewership, some queries and a few deals are signed at the end of it as well. “I can't say there has been a hike in the number of sales but we have got a lot of queries.I feel happy that people who do not have any prior insight into art are now thinking about buying something they like,“ says Preeti Garg of Gallery Veda, who organises talks with the artist whose works are displayed and also brings out personal ised write-ups on the works for the guests. While both Gal lery Veda and Vanjula's Art Atrium believes in having at least a three to sixmonth-long show to ensure visibility and exposure for the art ist, ITC Chola has been hosting an annual three-day long show in part nership with the NGO Concern India. “The Wel comArt forum endeavours to promote lesser known artists.
 
 We have believe in responsible luxury and prefer works that involve recycled material and eco-friendly themes,“ says spokeswoman Sayani Roy .
 
 But experts like Doctor feel it is important that these specialised shows move away from the decorative genre of hotel art. “It is important that the works on display are properly curated. People's minds will open if the art on display is cutting edge and provokes the viewer,“ she says.
 
