GREATER NOIDA: The arrest of four criminals belonging to   for orchestrating the gang rape and murder has once again brought to light the tribe’s ruthless behaviour. The   originally belong to Rajasthan and have now spread to Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Punjab. They are a nomadic tribe scattered over different places. Traditionally hunters,  

 Many police officers who have worked for years cracking cases related to the Bawariyas say that the tribesmen believe that robbery, theft and dacoity are their traditional occupation. They usually camp by the roadside, away from people, commit crimes and frequently change their places.
 
 In the case of  , the police took two months to tighten the noose around the Bawariya men. Ajay Kumar Sharma, head, anti-extortion cell, said that his team was also working closely with the local police of Jewar. “We tried to collect electronic evidences but didn’t get them. They are very sharp criminals and they don’t leave evidences of the crimes they commit. We depended on manual surveillance and focused on numerous gangs in the area. Finally we came to know about the movements of the gang,” he said.
 
 Sources said that teams of police officials had been keeping a watch on the roads of Jewar in plainclothes for the past two months which led to the arrest.
 
 Police officials said the Bawariyas also put oil or some lubricants on their bodies to evade capture during robberies. “We have noticed that in case of death of their gang member, they do not pick up the body,” said a police officer.
 
 They also carry rods, axes, knives and other sharp weapons. The Bawariyas have been committing crimes for centuries and their modus operandi is similar to the recent gang rape. “They also waylay cars and attack roadside houses. In most cases, they sexually assault women,” said an officer.
 
 The Bawariyas usually operate in groups and split after committing crimes. It is also very hard to extract details of the crime records or other details from the arrested Bawariyas.
 
 
