Lucknow: A police team will be sent to   Pradesh in search of the missing Indian Institute of Management- Lucknow (IIM-L) student Subhadip Das. The 26-year-old was last seen in   district of the state, where he had stayed in a hotel for three days. 

 Lucknow SSP Deepak Kumar told TOI on Saturday, “Our surveillance team found out that Das checked into a hotel in Kinnaur on July 19. The hotel’s manager Niranjan De told us over phone that Das had come alone and had checked out on at 9am July 21.” 
 
 Inspector of Madiaon police station Raghvan Singh, said Das’s number had been active till July 20. The police recovered contacts of some people who were in touch with him till July 18. “One of the numbers is of a Lucknow-based girl who used to talk to Das regularly. On July 12, he had texted her asking her not to talk to him any more,” Singh added. ASP (Trans-Gomti) Harendra Kumar said, “Prima facie it appears that the boy had left the college out of his own will because no demands for ransom have been made till now.”
 
 Meanwhile, Das’s parents, Uttam Kumar and Savita Das, have been Lucknow for the last three days and are desperately looking for information related to their missing son’s whereabouts. They told TOI that Shubo, as they called him fondly, had visited them last in June. “He spoke to me last on June 3, when he reached Lucknow airport from Kolkata and that too for just two minutes. After that we called and texted him daily, but he neither took our calls, nor responded to our messages. We kept asking him about his well-being till July 18,” said Savita Das.
 
 His parents had earlier said Das had appeared “disinterested in everything” and was apparently depressed. 
 
 “As his phone was switched off after July 18, we called the institute on the night of July 23. We were told by the guard to call in the morning. On July 24, the institute told us to send a query via an e-mail. In their reply, they informed us that Subhadip was not on the campus and had left the college hostel on July 18,” said Uttam Kumar, Subhadip's father. 
 
 Kumar added that when he met Das’s friends they told him that the clasmates had planned a trekking trip to Manali after exams got over on July 18. “However, he had told them that he had other plans,” Das’s father said. 
 
 Das, a resident of Kolkata, was a second year student of post graduate programme (PGP II) student at IIM-L and had been missing from the college campus since July 18. Before leaving IIM-L, he signed the hostel register and wrote that he was going to his hometown, but never reached there.
 
 
