Ask Malayalis, who are fed up with the society’s tendency to point fingers at the woman, every time there is a crime against her

 Recently right wing activists who were nabbed by cops for caning couples on Marine Drive, justified their actions saying “We were trying to ‘safeguard women’.” 
 That came a few weeks after   (Association of Malayalam Movie Artists) issued a circular insisting “a man should always accompany an actress who travels alone in the night, to ensure her safety.”
 
 Similarly, the Education Department of Palakkad district administration proposed to launch an awareness drive exclusively for high school girls, to educate them on ‘the pitfalls of love and romance’. 
 
 The aforementioned incidents only reinforce that oft repeated Malayali adage that is drilled in every Malayali girl’s mind right from an early age: Ila mullil vannu veenalum, mullu ilayil vannu veenalum, kedu ilakka.
 
 It roughly translates to ‘whether the thorn falls on the leaf, or the leaf falls on the thorn, it’s the leaf that suffers damage’. In other words, it’s the woman — frail as a leaf that she is! — who will end up suffering the pitfalls of any kind of run in with the menfolk. Ergo, it’s the woman’s prerogative to stay away from men in order to stay safe. 
 
 That might sound like a heap of rubbish to any 21st century woman with a mind of her own, but a spate of recent happenings have proved that when it comes to blaming and shaming the woman, no matter what atrocity she suffers, Kerala, is no exemption. Its supposed culture of matriarchal family systems and 100% literacy, notwithstanding. 
 Kerala’s progressive Malayalis are naturally aghast. At a time when we claim to live in a modern society where both genders are standing shoulder to shoulder, and marching ahead, such regressive thoughts must be shelved, they say. Kochi Times listens in.
 
 
 
 C J John, Psychiatrist
 
 We are part of a male-dominated society and its ethos are well ingrained, at least in some proportions, in all of us. Even the circular issued in Palakkad was a result of a similar thought process. Instead of teaching both the genders about equality, the circular singled out the girls advising them how not to fall in a “love trap”. In doing so, it vilified the woman and commended the man saying, it is he who doesn’t need to think of respecting the other gender. 
 In the recent case of an actress being assaulted, rather than highlighting the need for the society to be more responsible, the first question that many asked was, “why did she have to go out alone in the night?”
  The Education department’s decision proved yet again that pivotal issues such as gender equality and mutual respect are far out notions when combating atrocities against women in the state. 
 
  Instead, they tried to establish the idea of supremacy in the society saying women are more likely to get abused by men, given an opportunity. 
  The major reason for this is that most of the decisions for women are being taken by men and a change can happen only if women take a firm stand in the decision making. It is time for us to consciously take decisions and consider that each word uttered and step taken should foster a culture that promotes gender equality and mutual respect. 
 It can only happen if rigorous corrections are done at various levels — from the birth of a child to him/her stepping into a professional atmosphere. If mothers and teachers are given proper training, eventually the society will be enlightened. Hence rather than pointing fingers at women, this issue should be taken up seriously by the society at large and work towards it.
 
 
 
 
 Murali Gopy, actor & writer
 
 Any progressive movement that is meant for empowering gender should include both boys and girls. We should create a free society for them to mingle that would in turn instill in them a sense of respect for each other. The circular, which was recently issued at Palakkad, is so foolish that you can’t even term it regressive. In fact, it is anti-psychological. I’m glad that the plan has been cancelled due to widespread protest. We shouldn’t try to control emotions such as love, laughter or anger. We should stop imposing such parochial thoughts on others. When you ask girls not to romance and conduct classes to prevent them from falling for guys, we are giving them a wrong idea about love in the formative stage itself. Such decisions are made because we are a repressive society!
 
 
 
 
 N A Vinaya, 
 
 Assistant Sub-Inspector
 Kerala Police
 
 My anger is directed towards the girls around. I think it is high time that they spoke for themselves and stood up for their rights! They should ask the men who insist on being bodyguards to get lost and face the world. Women now have all the rights and privileges, and I don’t understand why they still have to suffer and remain silent in the case of an assault. Men have a feeling that women will not react as it would spoil their good girl image. We should break free from that stereotype. We should assert that our body is our right and chastity or purity is not the benchmark to assess us. The parents should bring up a generation which is empowered enough and enlightened both mentally and physically.
 
 
 
 
 Sheeba K M, 
 Associate Professor, 
 Sree Sankaracharya 
 University of Sanskrit
 
 I feel depressed seeing how we claim to be liberal and yet prove to be more and more conformists. I am not surprised seeing the statements aired by AMMA asking actresses not to go out alone in the night. It’s all part of gender discrimination.I was part of a study on gender justice in campus titled Samaagati, conducted by the Kerala State HIgher Education Council. While doing the study, everybody including students and teachers complained about the moral policing, which start from homes and extend to campuses and beyond. 
 
 There were even proposals to teach girls on how not to romance! I will only blame it on the teachers, elders and parents. I think rather than training them on how to stay away from love, we should teach them how to be mature adults, how to take charge of their lives and face the world.
 
