CHANDIGARH: Peer muchalla is slowly becoming a major dumping ground in the area as several   carts lines up everyday at the land along the newly constructed road. 

 The garbage not only gets scattered on the road, but also spreads a foul smell which has developed a distaste among the residents. They allege that all the garbage collected from more than 30 housing societies is being dumped on the site which is not a designated spot for it. 
 
 Residents who wake up to garbage heaps keep their doors closed as stink reaches their living rooms as well. Several employees from the sanitation staff were seen carrying trash on carts and dumping it along the road side. The situation becomes worse for house owners when the wind starts flowing in the direction of their houses and they are forced to inhale the pungent smell of rotten waste.
 
 Kushal Mittal, who resides close to the dump, said, “The authorities must designate some place where the garbage collected is to be dumped. At present, the sanitaion staff are clueless about where to dump the waste.”
 
 Garbage can have several health hazard of not being treated properly. The stench can cause respiratory disorders to residents.
 
 Bhushan Brar, a resident, said, “Its so strange that if the sanitation team doesn’t come to collect the garbage on just one day, we get tensed about where to dump it since the number of trash bins in the area is very less.”
 
 On the other hand, the commuters using the road, feel unpleasant as the unpleasant smell reaches their noses as well. Many feel that the garbage will ruin the road as the trash often flows on the road during the rains.
 
 Mukesh Saini, a commuter, said, “The road is so good to drive, but waste piled on both sides disheartens me. We must start thinking in the direction of managing our household waste in a more planned manner.”
 
 Garbage are also a threat to cattle and other stray animals, which keep hovering around hoping to get food but end up eating polythene and other dangerous things, which are hazardous to their health.
 
