GREATER NOIDA: Medical tests so far have thrown up no proof that four women travelling in a car that was ambushed off the Yamuna expressway on Thursday in Jewar were raped, police and the district’s chief medical officer said on Friday.

 The announcement that tests had found no proof of rape, made at a press conference, drew a strong protest from the family of the 38-year-old scrap dealer who was murdered by the gang of six that had waylaid the Eeco a kilometre from the expressway at Sabota Mustfabad village around 1.30am on Thursday. The victim’s brother-in-law said he was shocked and asked the police to explain, instead, why more than 24 hours after the murder, they had failed to make any arrests.
 
 “This happened in front of our eyes. The criminals took the women away and sexually assaulted them. The women themselves told police about the sexual assault. Why would any family make such an allegation if this did not happen,” asked the 40-year-old, who was also in the ambushed Eeco that was headed for Bulandshahr. 
 
 “We have lost everything but hope, and will intensify our struggle to seek justice if the investigation is not carried out properly,” he added.
 
 As the investigation took a curious turn, two more developments stirred the pot further. First, one of the women allegedly assaulted retracted her statement that three of her neighbours were involved in the crime. And second, the murder victim’s brother-in-law said the assailants had asked them if they ate beef, a new allegation that took the police by surprise. 
 
 Police said they had questioned three neighbours on the basis of the woman’s statement, and also sought help from Aligarh and Bulandshahr to help track down the suspects. But it was the “authenticity” of the rape allegations that emerged as the bigger talking point after Love Kumar, the Noida police chief, addressed a joint press conference with chief medical officer   and district magistrate B N Singh to raise those doubts.
 
 It was Bhargawa who did most of the talking at the press conference. “Three women had alleged vaginal intercourse and one alleged anal intercourse (sodomy). The examination revealed two of them had abrasions on both hands. None of the women had any injury on their private parts. There was also no sperm on their clothes. The primary investigation did not indicate rape,” he said.
 
 But this is not the final conclusion. Bhargawa said vaginal swabs, clothes and DNA samples had been sent to the forensic laboratory in Lucknow for further investigation. That report is expected in 15-20 days. Till then, police said, gang rape charges would remain in the FIR. The autopsy report of the scrap dealer, who was shot in the chest, confirmed that he had died of a gunshot injury and that a country-made weapon had been used.
 
 Police said statements of the women who were allegedly raped — the scrap dealer’s wife, sister, sister-in-law and the wife of Eeco’s driver — would be recorded before a magistrate on Saturday.
 
  Kumar said police were working closely with teams from the special operations group, special task force and experts but had not hit unearthed any concrete leads yet. He also indicated they hadn’t come to a conclusion on who carried out the attack. “Based on statements of the victims, we have made a dossier of suspects. Experts are also working to make sketches. We have noted down in detail what the accused looked like, and the language they spoke. But we have not come to a conclusion so far,” Kumar said.
 
 Police officers said they hadn’t ruled out the involvement of some local residents in the crime, who might have had a personal enmity with the family. District magistrate Singh said the real criminals will be brought to justice. “All due processes are being observed in the investigation. We assure the victim and their family justice will be delivered. The case is being investigated scientifically,” he said.
 
 
