CHENNAI: Madras High Court-Appointed Team Exposes Ramky's Irregularities, Breach Of Contract  
The Koyambedu wholesale market is stinking -and not just of rotting garbage. A private firm in charge of   at the complex since November 2009 is under the scanner for gross irregularities and breach of  
 A report by a Madras high court-appointed team of advocate commissioners has nailed the wrongdoings of Ramky Enviro Engineers Ltd, which also handles sanitation work in the Teynampet, Kodambakkam and Adyar zones of Greater Chennai Corporation.
 
 Ramky is paid `45 lakh month by CMDA to clear 200 tonnes of fruit, flower and vegetable waste from the market daily , but little cleaning is done, the report said. “Ramky clears, say, 25 to 30 [truck]loads a day and claims bills for 60 to 70 loads. (CMDA) officers know of this but keep quiet,“ said R Soundararajan, a trader.
 
 Ramky , which also operates a 30-tonne biomethanation plant at the market and can sell 50% of the biogas generated. Except, there is no production. The plant can produce 2,400 biogas unitsday from 30 tonnes of garbage. 
 
 Between July and October 2011, the report said, it should have generated 2.88 lakh units but produced only 32,868 units. “From No vember 2011to April 2014, there was no power generation at all.
 
 From September 2014 to April 2015, only a minimal quantity was produced. From mid-2015, the unit has been dormant,“ the report said. When TOI visited the spot on Friday , a Ramky supervisor, who identified himself as Moorthy , said “rules did not permit“ photographs being taken of waste in the complex.Project manager Srinivas refused to answer queries on the plant operation.
 
 For every tonne of garbage it transports from the market it transports from the market to the Kodungaiyur or Perungudi landfills, Ramky earns `960.82 from the corporation.
 
 Ravi Anantha Padmanabhan, one of the two advocate commissioners who compiled the report, said Ramky's handling of the process was “unprofessional and unsystematic“.
 
 S Srinivasan, a trader and a member of the Market Management Committee, said Ramky is allowed to continue despite its failure due to political pressure. Three firms had been in charge of sanitation operations at the market before Ramky won a 12-year contract from 2009 to 2022. This, highlyplaced sources in CMDA said, was because of its connections with a tainted top bureaucrat.
 
 “We strongly recommend that [a] change of cleaning agency , namely Ramky Enviro Engineers Ltd, Hyderabad, is overdue,“ the report said, pointing out that things are unchanged despite CMDA penalising the firm `2.52 crore for mishandling the biomethanation plant.
 
 Despite repeated attempts, senior   were not available for comment.
 
