PANAJI:   of waste,   have choked Sal river in   and Kharebandh, but traditional bandharas are still functional and   in some places surviving despite degradation of  

 The siltation caused by dumping of garbage and debris and resultant growth of weeds in mid-stretches of the unique river have affected its flow between Nuvem-Kharebandh, local villagers and members of Jal Yatra, a group found out in a tour of its source and upstream stretches. The only southward flowing river in Goa has been adversely impacted by human intervention. The villagers of Verna and Nuvem in coordination with Jal Yatra had organized the study tour to assess the level of degradation and its flow dynamics. The river has stopped flowing in Nuvem stretch. “The silt, garbage and vegetation has covered the entire river near the Margao wholesale fish market and it is not flowing,” Dattaram Desai of Jal Yatra, a group studying water issues, said.
 
 The biodiversity has been affected but in the absence of a study, the villagers are unaware about the full impact. “The fish biodiversity of tigur, goddke and local species has decreased,” a Nuvem villager said.
 
 Commencing the tour at one of its major sources at Uddear spring and Ambulor lake on the slope of Verna plateau, the farmers groups and biodiversity committee members were irked by the litter near the spring. “The plastic was just lying uncleared near the spring,” Amancio Fernandes, a former agriculture officer and Nuvem resident said. As the water from the source flows west through Khandkant to join the main river running parallel to Verna bypass, the group noticed that the channel from Uddear needs to be restored.
 
 Moving to Nagoa towards west to another tributary that flows south-eastwards to the river, the group inspected eight bandharas in and around Nuvem. “Out of eight bandharas in the river, hardly one or two are non-functional,” Desai said.
 
 Rumder, Arcabund, Duncolim, Murida Pequeno, Bogti Tollem and Bhironde were some of the bandharas operational. “These storage facilities, especially the main one at Rumder store water and irrigate paddy fields at low level and vegetable crops,” Fernandes said. The lake area has shrunk considerably, as the western bypass has bifurcated the age-old water body into two. Villagers said the flow from the hill slopes in the east into the river has reduced due to poor cross drainages.
 
 But, the group observed that thick vegetation on both sides of the river is still intact in most areas. Villagers were wary about dredging, as it could weaken tree or lead to the collapse of banks, as was noticed in Khareband and other stretches recently. 
 
 
