Surat: Surat is all set to become the third international airport of   after Ahmedabad and Vadodara.

 Surti flyers’ dream to fly to international destinations from the city airport is going to be realized soon. Surat airport is preparing for international flight operations and a private airline company is ready to operate direct flights from Surat to Sharjah and Dubai, said Union minister of state for civil aviation Jayant Sinha here on Sunday.
 
 Sinha, who was in the city to flag off direct daily flight of SpiceJet between Surat and Delhi, stated that Surat airport will get the customs notified status and be ready for limited international flight operations in the next few months. 
 
 “I have literally arm-twisted SpiceJet chairman and managing director Ajay Singh and he is convinced to start direct flights from Surat to Sharjah and Dubai once the customs facilities are set up at the airport in the coming few months. There are other players too who are keen to operate international flights from Surat,” Sinha said. 
 
 The minister said, “We are following up with   ( ) for speeding up the customs notified status for Surat airport. The inspection for which has already been done by the local office. Major modifications are underway at the airport terminal for separating domestic and international travellers.”
 
 Sinha said the aviation sector has been registering 25 per cent growth in passenger traffic every year since 2014. The national aviation policy (NAP) has been a huge success. This year, we are expecting 15 crore passenger traffic, out of which 10 crore passengers are in domestic sector. With this, India’s aviation sector will be at the third position in the world with the annual turnover touching Rs1.5 lakh crore.
 
 Sinha also said that SpiceJet has accepted the ministry’s proposal to operate direct flights from Surat to Ranchi and Patna. The airline will connect other destinations like Mumbai, Jaipur and Bangalore in the next six months. 
 
 Sinha said, “The ministry has faced pressure from Prime Minister, MPs from Surat and Navsari and the airport groups in the last two-and-a-half-years for improving air connectivity from Surat. The ministry had approached private airlines for considering Surat in their fly-list. Indigo airlines is also thinking of connecting Surat with various destinations.” 
 
 Sinha said   is in the process of developing a state-of-the-art cargo complex at Surat airport. SpiceJet is keen to set up bonded warehouse at the airport. This is going to boost agro, diamond and textile sectors in the coming few months. 
 
 Asked about deployment of CISF personnel at Surat airport, Sinha said, “Yes, we are working to provide CISF deployment. Things will change with international airport facilities at the airport.”
 
 Tour operators said around 4 lakh people from south Gujarat, including Surat, travelled to international destinations in 2015-16.
 
 
