Speak of heritage and we conjure up images of forts, palaces and even mausoleums. But there are smaller, more ubiquitous struc tures that many of us pass by everyday and fail to give a second look. Kamans or arches, that once formed grand and symbolic gateways to many areas stand as an   past falling prey to apathy .

 One such arch is the his toric  . Six years after its 'restoration' by  , the imposing gateway to the famous Moula Ali dargah cries for attention.
 
 A portion of the Kaman has been vandalized and the iron rods in one of its supporting pillars stand exposed with the `con crete' plaster falling off.
 
 The Moula Ali Kaman, which was constructed during the early period of the Asaf Jah dynasty , continues to be the land mark entrance to the dargah as well as the locality named after the shrine. A two-storey structure built with stones and lime, the Kaman has a big arch with four windows, two on each side. Two   support the canopy of the arch while two smaller pillars each on both sides support the windows. The canopy contains a number of small arches.
 
 Though the city has a number of kamans, the one at Moula Ali stands apart for architectural, cultural and religious significance. It is a protected structure, with heritage activists estimating it to be 200-250 years old.
 
 In the olden days, it was a practice for devotees to stop at the Kaman and remember the Almighty before climbing the 500 steps that lead to the dargah atop the hill.The Asaf Jah rulers too used to visit the shrine and one such occasion was immor talised by the 'prince of photographers' Raja Deen Dayal.
 
  In the 1890s, he clicked the mag nificent scene of the sixth Nizam Mir Mah bub Ali Khan sitting atop an elephant and returning from the dargah in a grand procession of  .
 
 Trouble began for the Kaman in the 1990s with an increase in vehicular traffic.The damage due to the vibrations caused by vehicles was compounded by an accident in 2006 that nearly brought the arch down. The authorities then proposed to pull down the Kaman to widen the road, but had to back down in 2010 after activists took legal recourse. 
 
 The archaeology department spent nearly Rs 12 lakh to 'reconstruct' the Kaman in 2011-12, after which it was thrown open to light motor vehicles and two-wheelers.
 
 “Moula Ali Kaman is unique and should be protected for posterity. The   of the Kaman should be repaired to prevent further damage,“ said Anuradha Reddy , convener of Hyderabad chapter of INTACH.
 
