NEW DELHI: His is a story of courage under fire and perseverance. Left for dead by Naxals 12 years ago, Sannu   is back on his feet – but the   tribal, now 45, still vividly recalls the night his life turned upside down.

 The incident dates back to a period when the   movement – a militia mobilised and deployed by police as part of anti-insurgency operations in Chhattisgarh – had just taken wings. It was time when the Naxals, in acts of retribution, were targeting villagers with a brutal message: don’t mess with us.
 
 Tati narrates how one night 30-odd armed Naxals stormed Cherpal village in Bijapur and dragged three men, including Tati, to a nearby forest. Once there, they were beaten up mercilessly. While the other two died on the spot, Tati was found by the locals next day in a pool of blood, barely breathing.
 
 Tati’s sole fault was that his brother worked as a constable with Chhattisgarh Police. The Naxals probably suspected him also to be a part of Salwa Judum. Bijapur was a Naxal stronghold then and, as Tati says, going to police wasn’t an option. “We looked up to God and Naxals for everything,” Tati told TOI in Punjabi Bagh, where he was given an   by Narayan Seva Sansthan, an NGO.
 
 “My wife was beaten up when she tried to take me to hospital, 20km from the village,” he says. “My mother treated my wounds with herbs, but failed to save my leg. The wounds took years to heal.”
 
 As CRPF intensified its operations in 2008, Tati and his family found Cherpal increasingly unsafe to live. They, like many others, abandoned the village and shifted to a Salwa Judum camp.
 
 In December last year, some CRPF personnel, moved by Tati’s plight, shared his story with Sudhir Kumar, CRPF 85 battalion commandant stationed at Bijapur. “I called him (Tati) to the CRPF camp and was deeply moved to hear his story,” Kumar told TOI over phone. He arranged to send Tati to NSS’s Delhi office on personal expenses. 
 
 Dr A S Chundawat, credited with making Tati walk again on his own, says his legs can now hold his weight.
 
 Tati and his seven-member family — including two school-going daughters — survive on Chhattisgarh government welfare, but he is now hopeful of a better future. “I want to open a shop. I want to see my children live in a terror-free environment,” he says.
 
 To improve the quality of life of differently-abled people, NSS distributes artificial upper and lower limbs — on Sunday, 59 limbs were given to people from across UP, Chhattisgarh, MP and Rajasthan.
 
 
