Visakhapatnam: India features in the list of top five soya bean producers in the world, producing 12 million tonnes of the crop every year. However, the spurt in demand of Indian soya from the US proves to be a trouble for Indian consumers who take a fancy to American yields of the crop. 

 In India, traders are feared to import   soyas. Going by the statistics made between 2016-17, it was imported from three countries such as USA, Benin and Germany. All the soya imports from USA amounting to nearly 100 metric tonnes landed in the Pithampur Port and none of it belonged to the GMO variety.
 
 Soya Bean Processing, an organised industry has been active for almost four decades and it has been keeping tabs on the growth of soya production in India since its inception during 1960s. SOPA is the only trade body that works in tandem with farmers to surge the crop yields in India. The national body of SOPA, based in Indore, has been opposing the import of genetically modified soya for a long time.
 
 A member of SOPA rued that there is hardly any way to examine the soya beans. He said that the import can be certified and allowed in the country only after the approval of plant protection advisor to the Centre. Farmers are also worried as importing the seeds without proper quarantine methods can prove to be dangerous.
 
 R K Reddy who reaps soya in Medak said, “It is not just processed products or plain soya bean, rather we should be careful while importing seeds. Anything that disturbs the local seed bank, developed over 50 years with improved varieties could be affected.”
 
 Scientists seem to be not so much interested in genetically modified soya, thinks R Suresh at the Research Station in Chintapalli. “Its side effects are not well-known. So, these genetically modified crops result in various health problems that are mostly being diagnosed in chronic stage. Besides, these beans are posing as a threat to local ecology and bio-diversity because of its farming methods,” he said.
 
 Risk Factors
 
 1) Experts warn that the side-effects of genetically modified soya beans on health are not well known
 
 2) Farmers warn against causing any disturbance in local seed bank
 
 3) SOPA fears that GM soya can intrude Indian markets
 
 4) Buyers cannot distinguish the forbidden variety
 
 5) Scientists are not seemingly keen on this variety
 
 
