LUCKNOW: With only three days left for the first phase of polling for 73 seats in western UP, the   is on an overdrive to make a cracking beginning. A good start will set the tone for the next six phases of voting.

 However, party sources say that there are worrying signs for the party , given the somewhat cold response of the electorate to its candidates. An impromptu analysis by the top leadership of the party has revealed that the failure to address the concerns of the powerful Jat community , insensitivity to heal the wounds of farmers   and dissatisfaction over distribution of tickets were three main reasons which could pose a road block to the saffron camp.
 
 “Victory in UP elections is a matter of prestige. A loss will have wider ramifications at the national level,“ says a party leader.
 
 Apart from being annoyed over denial of quota in central services, Jats are also annoyed over the manner in which the BJP-led NDA government forcibly evicted Ajit Singh from the residence of his father and former prime minister Chaudhary Charan Singh in Delhi. The house was to be converted into a museum in his memory . Ajit Singh is playing up this issue among his caste members during his election meetings.
 
 Speaking to TOI , a senior functionary of the BJP, who is also in charge of elections in the state, said that the party had changed its gears to now its tried and tested formula of polarization on religious lines and had started fuelling the emotive issues of the Uniform Civil Code, triple talaq and the construction of the Ram Temple in Ayodhya.
 
 However, the BJP leadership is not finding the same favourable and fertile ground in western UP, which it did in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections when it won all the 10 seats of the first phase held in the same region.The elections then were held in the backdrop of the bloody Jat-Muslim communal riots which had ripped apart the communal and social fabric of the region. Although the preriots days' normalcy when the two communities had shared lives--from khap sabhas to farm activ ities--is yet to return, polarisation is not that sharp.
 
 The Jat community , which polarised in favour of the BJP in 2014, now has three major issues with the party-BJP appointed a non-Jat chief minister in adjoining Haryana, dominated by the community; alleged police atrocities on Jats during an agitation, and the growing woes of cane growers who were severely hit by demonetisation. Many Jat outfits have already declared their decision to oppose the party .
 
 As a desperate attempt, BJP has asked RSS foot soldiers to counter the negative campaign by fanning out in rural areas and woo back sulking Jats seen to be veering towards the RLD--their traditional party . It was swept by the Modi wave in 2014 and couldn't win a single seat.
 
