JAIPUR: Soon,   will not be facing frequent   at  .   O P Meena has directed the   (RSRTC) to shift the bus stop from this circle to Transport Nagar area.

 Corporation's managing director Rajesh Yadav said, “Directions have been given to shift the bus stop from Narain Singh Circle at a meeting. On Monday , Transport Nagar area will be inspected where the bus stop has to be relocated.“
 
 As drivers stop their buses haphazardly at Narain Singh Circle, huge traffic jams have become a routine feature at this place. Commuters going towards JLN Marg and Govind Marg from Tonk Road often get stuck in congestion at this junction.
 
 The decision to shift the bus stop will ease the traffic in the area drastically as all RSRTC buses heading towards Delhi, Agra and Lucknow from Sindhi Camp bus stand halt at Narain Singh Circle.
 
 All these buses stop at this junction on their return journey as well.
 
 “Nearly 175 buses coming from Sindhi Camp stop here every day . The Express buses for Delhi are available after every 10 minutes. Similarly, Volvo buses are available after every one hour during the day ,“ said an official. Many small vendors also crowd this place to sell their goods to the passengers.
 
 The decision to relocate the bus stand was taken thrice earlier too. However, the project was stalled every time due to one or the other reason.
 
 The traffic department had also written a letter to the RSRTC to shift the bus stop from Narain Singh Circle.“The route of the buses will remain the same. They will reach NH-8 and NH-11 via Govind Marg. However, they will not be allowed to halt at Narain Singh Circle. The JDA will demolish the existing kiosks to widen the road,“ said another official.
 
 Though the removal of the bus stop would reduce the congestion, many passengers are not happy with the decision.
 
 Ravi Jain, a resident of Bapu Nagar who frequently travels to New Delhi, said, “There is no direct connectivity to Transport Nagar area. Currently , thousands of passengers benefit daily as this bus stop is in the middle of the city.“
 
 
