NAGPUR: Resident doctors in Government Medical Colleges (GMCs) pan Maharashtra have found a clever way to go on ‘strike’ to protest against attacks on residents in different parts of the state. Each resident is individually applying for leave and saying that the   (MARD) has no role to play in it. They have adopted this method to circumvent the Bombay High Court’s directives in a pending case that they cannot boycott work.

 There have been six assaults in last six days and a total of 11 incidents since January this year. In last two years, there have been 40 incidents. 
 
 The residents at the two GMCs in city, the   (GMCH) and the   (IGGMC), too, joined what they are calling as ‘mass leave’. “There is no role of MARD here. Each individual who agrees that he is working in an unsafe environment is not working. We have written to the authorities, including the DMER and the ministry, that we are so disturbed with the visual threat and fear of an attack that even if we work we will not be able to deliver our duties honestly. We will not be able to do justice to patients coming in serious condition to the hospital as our minds will be pre occupied with the assault threat,” said one of the residents.
 
 The entire protest movement started with a brutal attack on a resident at Dhule followed by attacks at Shirpur, Nashik, Sion from last Tuesday till Sunday and Wadia Hospital at Mumbai and GMC Aurangabad on Monday. First, MARD had called a mass bunk (unofficial strike) on March 17 but called it back due to the sword of High Court hanging over its head. Over 4,500 residents are on mass leave since Monday across Maharashtra.
 
 At GMCH and IGGMC, the residents refused to join duty from 8am on Monday morning whereas doctors from Sion, KEM Nair hospitals had already gone on mass leave since Sunday. The GMC dean Dr A Niswade said that out of the 347 residents in GMCH, 284 had signed the mass leave letter. “There are 370 faculty and 69 senior resident doctors in GMCH who can take over the job of residents. Today we didn’t postpone any surgeries. Our OPD was also normal. So, there has been no effect of the strike as of now,” said the dean.
 
 The IGGMC acting dean Dr Anuradha V Shrikhande told TOI that the residents had intimated about the possible mass leave on Sunday. The college has 168 residents and hence the college had prepared for all lecturers, associate professors and professors along with senior residents to be on duty. Since there was a surprise inspection at the IGGMC on Monday, the dean said that those needed to be on duty were there at least during the time of the inspection.
 
 
