VISAKHAPATNAM: The central government sponsored Lab for Life (L4L) project implemented at King George Hospital (KGH)-Andhra Medical College (AMC) has registered progress in the implementation of various parameters for quality control, strengthening and streamlining of various diagnostic services.

 When the baseline assessment by an inspecting central team was done in 2014, the standard of the labs in the departments of pathology, microbiology and biochemistry was evaluated at 33%, but the score has now improved to 56% following training imparted to faculty and technicians.
 
 Recently, doctors from AMC-KGH, Visakhapatnam had attended Labs for Life project meeting at Mussourie, Uttarakhand where progress of its work for this project was considered among the best.
 
 Dr Pulla Kamala, nodal officer, professor and head of the department of microbiology at AMC-KGH, said, “In 2015, the initial baseline assessment was done on parameters such as technical capabilities, quality systems, referral systems, infrastructure, human resources, budget and finances. The assessment was done to identify facility specific challenges and areas of need that should be prioritised and addressed in a customised way.
 
 After re-assessment in 2016-end, we scored 56% following training in sample collection and pre-analytical best practices and onsite training given to medical officers and technicians, facility management and safety, equipment management and quality control. Online or web seminars were also conducted on various topics.”
 
 AMC has been selected as one of the 11 centres in India for the L4L project. All over India, 11 districts (districts at a non-metro location and with a referral medical college) from seven states were selected for the project. Warangal from Telangana and Vizag from   have been selected as two districts from South India. With the support of the US Centres for Disease Control and Prevention ( ), the Union ministry of health and family welfare is implementing the project to improve the quality of laboratory services.
 
 The objectives of the three-year L4L project include enhancing capacity for diagnosis of communicable and non-communicable diseases, improving the quality services of identified labs from the baseline assessment, strengthen specimen referral mechanisms and linkages between different levels of labs. The L4L project will support activities to improve quality, effectiveness and efficiency of regional laboratories under the ministry based on their needs.
 
 Professor and head of the department of pathology at AMC Dr A Bhagya Lakshmi said, “With L4L, upgradation of equipment and manpower allotment is expected. It will help development of in-service training for all staff, training on good lab practice and help develop protocols and standard operating procedures for specific activities such as blood collection, lab testing, maintenance of cold chain, training, lab reporting, risk assessment and management. With further streamlining and upgradation of lab services, samples need not be sent outstation to Hyderabad or Chennai for tests of certain diseases and these can be tested or diagnosed in AMC itself.”
 
 All over India, 11 districts (districts at a non-metro location and with a referral medical college) from seven states were selected for the project. Warangal from Telangana and Vizag from   have been selected as two districts from South India.
 
