Bhopal: The Inter-state chain snatching   created by the crime branches of Madhya Pradesh,   and   has helped them to co-ordinate better to keep the menace of chain snatching from Iranian gangs at bay

 The whats app group was created to counter the highly efficient network of Iranian gangs in the three states which operates across the country. Iranian communities having their origins in Balochistan have settlements in various parts of MP, Maharashtra and Karnataka. In MP they have settlements in Bhopal, Jaora , Raisen , Vidisha and Ujjain.
 
 The group was formed in 2016 in Pune after a meeting attended by police officials of Bhopal, Bengaluru and Pune to get hold of these gangs which generally work in cohorts with their relatives living in Iranian settlements.
 
 Former additional superintendent of police, Shailendra Chauhan who is currently the assistant inspector general, cyber crime cell, MP said, “This whats app group has increased the coordination between the police forces of the three states and helped us to nab these chain snatchers .”
 
 S.K Umesh, assistant commissioner of police, Vijaynagar sub division in Bengaluru is an expert on Iranian gangs. He told TOI on phone that, “these gangs are not bounded by the boundaries and operate from Madhya Pradesh to Maharashtra to Karnataka as well as in states like Andhra Pradesh.”
 
 “One will not believe that they can ride bikes from Bhopal to Bengaluru in one stretch. There have been incidents when gang members from Bhopal came to Bengaluru for chain snatching and fled away soon after their work is done with the support from their local partners in Bengaluru. Forming the group is the need of hour to counter them,” added Umesh
 
 A Police official from Indore wishing anonymity said, “Large number of chain snatching in MP is carried out by snatchers from other states whereas chain snatchers from MP go to other states for the same. So the handy exchange of information over the group has increased our coordination to tackle the menace.”
 
 Box: Iranian gangsters are skilled bikers and can effortlessly travel a distance of around 1000 KMs in 10-12 hours. Many a times they disguise as policeman and approach elderly ladies wearing ornaments. They threaten them by saying that they could be robbed and ask them to take off their ornaments and put them in a purse or some times in a cloth which is given by the gang. After engaging the target in a conversation they flee with the ornaments .
 
 Police dealing with these gangsters often face attacks from Iranian women whenever they go to catch a chain snatcher in their settlements. They create ruckus and incident have been reported where policemen have been attacked with iron rods and chili powder.
 
 Box: Police exchange and nab these chain snatchers by following a standard operating procedure in which they initially share the information with local cops. After which raids and arrests are carried at the settlements on the basis of exchanged information. Once a snatcher is released from jail, police keep him on surveillance and coordinate with police units inside and outside the state.
 
 
