Chandigarh: The UT department of tourism and cultural affairs uses a unique mechanism to consolidate the data of tourist inflow.

 The department asks every hotel, bhawans, dharamshalas and any other place of accommodation in the city to send them a detailed monthly report about how many international and domestic tourists checked in and stayed overnight among several other updates.
 
 The monthly statistical report demanded by the department contains specific information about the number of check-ins done by domestic and international tourists within the check-in and check-out slots of a single day along with the number of arrivals and the duration of their stay.
 
 “We have a standard procedure of garnering information about the tourists visiting the city since many years. This is the best way to collect information in this regard,” said Jitendra Tyagi, director, department of tourism and cultural affairs, UT.
 
 As many as 1,500 rooms available in the organized sector of LCRs (lodging cum restaurants) apart from more approximately 3,500 rooms from the unorganized sector of hotels are required to send this report.
 
 “There are two forms that are required to be filled. The first one is a basic from the ministry of tourism requiring information about check-ins and the duration of the stay of the tourists. Another form called the C Form is particularly used only for international tourist information. This is a pan India process applicable to tourists from all the nationalities except from Nepal. We fill their Visa and passport information which is mandatory,” said Ankit Gupta, President, Chandigarh Hotels Association.
 
 However, when asked about the inaccuracy in calculation arising from tourists who visit but do not stay for the night, Narinder Kumar, tourism officer, said, “We ask for the tickets tourists buy at Rock Garden and so on. Hence, if they visit Rock Garden, they will surely visit the Sukhna Lake too. Hence, we get an idea about these kinds of tourists.”
 
 Even, the Sector 17 ISBT lodge is also included into the calculation.
 
 
