KOLHAPUR: The rural areas of the district have been witnessing the spread of   as the   has touched 10 so far this month.

 L S Patil, civil surgeon, Kolhapur district, said that an awareness drive is on and citizens need to be extra cautious during the monsoon season.
 
 He said, "This year we have witnessed 16 deaths due to H1N1 virus. Eight of these deaths have occurred in July and it is very worrying. We have ample stock of Tamiflu tablets. We also have 34 advanced ambulances and around six basic ambulances available 24 hours a day for seven days a week. I assure that the administration is equipped with all the medical needs. Citizens too need to be extra cautious about their surroundings."
 
 Patil added that out of the 16 dead, 10 were from Kolhapur. The remaining five patients were from Konkan region, while one was from Karnataka.
 
 He added that the city based civil hospital   (CPR) has around three patients who have tested positive for swine flu, while four others are quarantined as their symptoms match with that of H1N1. 
 
 The swab samples of the suspected patients have been sent to the   ( ), he said.
 
 According to Patil, the victims who have succumbed to the disease belonged to high risk categories. Some of them were elderly and were already suffering from diabetes or blood pressure related health problems. These kind of patients have low immunity, which results in lower resistance to the H1N1 virus.
 
 He added that the number of awareness campaigns, expert lectures and activities aimed to prevent the spread of H1N1 has been increased. There are ample advertisements of dos and don'ts across the district. The primary health centres too have been asked to communicate with fellow patients and their relatives about swine flu and its symptoms.
 
 It may be noted that swine flu is a respiratory infection that exploits a weak immune system to attack major organs, especially the lungs. Once the virus affects the lungs, it can lead to pneumonia and prove to be fatal.
 
