Kolkata: Even as Mamata Banerjee left for Delhi to meet Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Tuesday in a bid to field a common secular candidate against the BJP-RSS choice in the presidential polls, Bengal arch-rivals Left-Congress and BJP raised a united voice against the ruling Trinamool Congress over the “vote loot” in three of the seven municipal polls held in the state on Sunday.

 The opposition — Congress, Left and BJP — demanded cancellation of polls in all 358 booths spread over three municipalities ( , Domkal and Raiganj), calling it a sham. This follows widespread violence in several parts of the three municipalities. None of the parties is happy with the State Election Commission’s re-poll order in six of the booths.
 
 What’s more, Left and Congress had withdrawn candidates from all the wards in Raiganj and Domkal in the midst of the poll process on Sunday, alleging “violence and vote loot”.
 
 State election commissioner A K Singh’s alleged divide-and-rule tactic to meet the BJP delegation on Monday while denying the Left delegation an appointment the day before yielded no results.
 
 In protest, Congress and Left MLAs have decided to boycott the all-party meeting called by speaker Biman Banerjee ahead of the assembly session. They also plan to move an adjournment motion against the “vote loot”. 
 
 State BJP president Dilip Ghosh, the lone party MLA in the assembly, however, parted ways with the opposition in this regard. “I will be participating in the all-party meeting. But I will narrate my experience independently if the opposition moves an adjournment motion.” The state BJP is also taking legal opinion to move court against SEC for its failure to discharge its constitutional duty.
 
 Sujan Chakrabarty, Left leader in the assembly, also came down on SEC, though he didn’t join the BJP chorus of moving court. “What people in West Bengal saw on Sunday was the Mamata model of democracy. SEC, the administration and the ruling party joined hands to loot votes and the constitutional authority looked the other way. The Mamata Banerjee government didn’t take lessons from the Bidhannagar municipal polls in 2015, when residents were denied voting rights. The re-poll order in six booths is only a vindication of the SEC-administration-ruling party ploy to loot votes,” he said.
 
 Livid at the SEC order, West Bengal Pradesh Congress president Adhir Chowdhury threw a challenge to Mamata Banerjee, saying: “Allow the people of Domkal and Raiganj to cast their votes. She will get to know about the people’s choice.” 
 
 
