BENGALURU: A week since it opened   for specialist doctors, the state government has received at least 880 applications for the   to various  .

 Currently, there are 1,035 vacancies of specialist doctors. All the previous attempts by the state government to recruit doctors had been unsuccessful. Online bidding, where doctors are free to quote a pay package and can even negotiate their salaries, is a last-ditch effort to ensure better healthcare in remote areas of the state. 
 
 Yadgir district tops the bidding list with as many as 164 doctors taking part in the process, followed by Bengaluru Urban district where 93 specialist doctors have moved their applications. The government has begun scrutinizing the proposals.
 
 However, the Karnataka Government Medical Officers’ Association (KGMOA) is skeptical about the bidding process. “While a specialist working with government hospitals for the past 20 years draws not more than Rs 1.1 lakh per month, doctors are said to have quoted online Rs 2 lakh to Rs 4 lakh a month. How is that justified? This will demoralize and demotivate those who are currently in government service,” Dr R Ranganatha, KGMOA president, said.
 
 “In the past one year alone, over 100 doctors have quit the government service. Seventy percent of them are specialists,” Dr Ranganatha added.
 
 According to Dr Ranganatha, the issue is not only about money but also about infrastructure, work atmosphere and increasing attacks on doctors and these need to be addressed at the earliest. Opposing the government’s online bidding move, the KGMOA members will have a meeting on Sunday. They will also send a memorandum to the government on the same.
 
 The Karnataka government has been trying to overcome the shortage of doctors by various means. It did try to invoke legal provisions against post-graduate doctors who studied under the government quota but refused to do the mandatory service in rural areas, but to no avail. Later, when the government tried to hire doctors on a temporary-basis by offering Rs 1.25 lakh per month, the response was tepid.
 
 “It’s great news that so many specialist doctors are applying for open bidding. I am sure our rural people will not be deprived of the best of healthcare,” Shalini Rajneesh, the principal secretary for health and family welfare, stated.
 
