PUNE: The   racket runs deep in the state.

 After Mumbai, Food and Drug Administration (FDA) officials have seized illegal implant stock worth over Rs 12 lakh from Pune, Satara and Solapur in just three days. In all these cases, it was found that the distributors supplying these implants to hospitals did not possess the mandatory licences.
 
 The state-wide drive to detect illegal sale of orthopaedic implants was kicked off on February 10, three days after illegal implants were seized in Mumbai on February 7. 
 
 “So far, three cases of orthopaedic implants’ illegal trade have been detected in Pune, Satara and Solapur in Pune division. In all these cases, the distributors were selling the implants without holding a valid licence from the FDA. We have seized the stock and a criminal case will be filed against the distributors in court for violating the norms,”  , joint commissioner (drug), FDA, Pune division told TOI. 
 
 Drug inspector  , who carried out the raid in Pune city, seized the stock of orthopaedic implant at the flat of a distributor at   in Kothrud on Monday.
 
 “During intelligence gathering, we came across the printed bill of an implant distributor that did not bear the licence number. Following this, we raided his flat and found that he was selling the implants to three to four hospitals in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad. He, however, did not hold the licence to carry out the trade. We seized the stock worth Rs 3.07 lakh from him,” Darandale said.
 
 Similar instances were also reported from Solapur and Satara. “On the first day of the drive, drug inspectors in Solapur received a tip-off that a distributor operating from the North Kasba area of Solapur was selling implants illegally. Our officials conducted the raid and seized orthopaedic implants worth Rs 9 lakh from him,” Jawadekar said.
 
 Another case was unearthed in Satara when FDA inspectors raided house of a distributor and seized stock of orthopaedic implants worth Rs 91,000 on February 10. “This distributor too was selling the implants without holding a valid licence,” he said.
 
 Treating doctors, however, said there had been little awareness among doctors about various provisions of the Drug and Cosmetics Act. “We are aware of the fact that the implant and prosthetic manufacturing and trade has come under the purview of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act. However, provisions of the Act are not known to common orthopaedic surgeons. FDA should communicate to the national, state and district associations of orthopaedic surgeons about conducting awareness camps to sensitise doctors about provisions by the Act,” orthopaedic surgeon Nitin Bhagli said. Bhagli is the chairman of the Indian Medical Association’s Hospital Board of India, Pune branch, and executive member of the Maharashtra Orthopaedic Association.
 
