JAIPUR: The high court on Monday pulled up the state government on the poor condition of   and directed the advocate general (AG) to file a compliance report by January 23.

 Advocate  , counsel for the applicant (Rajasthan  ), said, “After it came to the notice of the court that the inmates of a juvenile home had gone missing for 10 days, the court asked the AG to treat the issue sensitively and take necessary steps.”
 
 Earlier, the court had taken   of the issue. “The court had directed the applicant to submit an application citing issues that have not been addressed by the government for the welfare of juveniles,” Kasliwal added.
 
 Complying with the order, Kasliwal submitted the information on behalf of RSLSA and sought directions on juvenile homes in the state.
 
 Bringing to the fore the plight of juveniles, the application detailed issues relating to juvenile homes. “The conditions of such homes are getting worse by the day. Children are not taken care of and safety and security are being overlooked by authorities. There is clear negligence and apathy on the part of authorities. In the light of the recent incidents of children fleeing time and again from these homes, specifically from Jaipur ( ), various inspections were conducted,” the application said.
 
 It further stated that juveniles after fleeing from these homes were committing serious offences, including chain snatching, lifting of vehicles, robbery, indulging in drug related activities, etc.
 
 “We have also stated that these homes are meant to make these children a better person. However they are returning to crime,” Kasliwal said, quoting the application.
 
 It also cited the reasons why these juveniles flee such homes. “The lack of infrastructure and rehabilitation facilities at these homes is the main reason for children leaving them. It also shows laxity and lack of security arrangements. There are grave concerns related to safety and security of juveniles at the juvenile home in city’s Sethi Colony,” the application stated.
 
