NAGPUR: Timely action by the   at   in   could save the lives of 130 persons who fell severely ill with gastroenteritis after drinking contaminated water in the village. This is the third time that the village has had a   in the last few months.

 The entire village has been converted into a makeshift hospital and the situation is now said to be under control. Official sources said that out of the serious ones, 22 have been admitted in the camp and two have been admitted at Arvi hospital. The other patients include 52 men, 59 women, 11 boys and 9 girls.
 
 Deputy director health services (DDHS) Dr Sanjay Jaiswal told TOI that the village got water supply from an adjoining well. “Health services keep monitoring the water supply regularly. The well was checked in April and given a green signal for water supply at the time. But now, authorities are trying to find the source of contamination.” The situation of all patients has been brought to near normal in two days. There are five doctors in the village camp who are taking of the patients round the clock, Jaiswal added.
 
 The village, located about 80km from Wardha district in Ashti block, has a population of 1,456. The village was in the news three months ago because some of its villagers got leptospirosis, a bacterial infection transmitted from animals to humans, which can prove fatal if not diagnosed and treated in time. The disease returned a second time and five villagers were infected with it. This time, too, there were rumours of the same disease resurfacing. But soon people began to vomit, have lose motions and dehydration and the doctors diagnosed it as gastro-enteritis.
 
 The Wardha district health officer (DHO) Duryodhan Chavan told TOI that the outbreak of gastro began on Tuesday morning. He said that 13 patients were admitted in the Sahur Primary Health Centre as they were suffering from cholera. The village is being supplied with tanker water for now. 
 
 Dr Ajay Davale, additional DHO, said that the village has a single well to supply water, and water of well got contaminated, putting the entire village at risk.
 
 Villagers are angry with the gram panchayat administration and health department saying that they don’t take preventive measures in time. Though the district health administration claimed that situation was under control, a villager Omkar Dandade, refuted this. “If the health officials had been vigilant, we would not have had to face such severe situation in 2-3 months,” he said.
 
