CHENNAI: The Medical Council of India ( ), which is supposed to be the nation’s conscience keeper when it comes to medical education and services, suffered the ignominy of being asked to pay up an ‘exemplary cost’ of Rs 1 crore by the   for its failure to enforce its own   on mandatory 50-50 seat surrender for all institutions offering medical education, including deemed universities.

 “If, from the year 2000 onwards, seats had been shared between the institutions and the respective states, thousands of seats would have been available to poor meritorious students or meritorious students in a less/affordable rate of fees. The MCI had deliberately failed and neglected to discharge its obligation and gone against the interest of the public,” rued Justice N Kirubakaran.
 
 The judge, who lambasted the MCI on Tuesday and directed it to deposit Rs 1 crore in favour of Spastics Society of Tamil Nadu, said in his 130-page order: “This court has got every reason to believe that without any legality or ground, the MCI is trying to disown the Regulation 9(2) and/or 9(vi). If the Regulation 9(2) and/or 9(vi) is not enforced, the beneficiaries would be non-governmental medical institutions. Hence, the MCI with a mala fide intention to help private medical lobby, who sells the medical seats for crores of rupees, is disowning its own regulation.”
 
 Blaming the MCI for “worrisome and dangerous trends in medical education,” Justice Kirubakaran said: “It is a known fact that some medical institutions have been selling medical seats through brokers/touts as per rates fixed by them, dehors merits, thereby more meritorious students were shunted out and less meritorious students got into the system.”
 
 The judge traced how the 50-50 seat-sharing arrangement introduced in the year 2000 underwent several changes made in October 2008 and December 2010, before culminating in the March 11, 2017 order making common counselling for admission to all postgraduate courses in all medical educational institutions, including the deemed universities, mandatory.
 
 He then said: “Mere framing of   by the MCI is not sufficient, and it is its duty to oversee that the regulations framed with the approval of the central government are followed by all concerned. When the seat-sharing regulation is framed in the year 2000, till the year 2003, when it was not challenged before the Karnataka high court, there was no proceedings and hence, the seat-sharing regulation 9(2) should have been acted upon or enforced. If really the Medical Council of India was interested in safeguarding the quality of medical education, and in regulating and guiding the medical institutions, it should have then and there followed up the matter.”
 
 The MCI itself had admitted that from 2000, no efforts had been made to oversee the implementation of seat-sharing regulations by the MCI, Justice Kirubakaran said, adding: “The reason is obvious, only to help the private players. It is also an instance of proof of malice.”
 
 
