GURUGRAM: The second round of phase IV of   is all set to roll out in four districts of Haryana from Monday. The week-long drive will be held in Rohtak, Palwal,   and  . However, rumours about dangers of the vaccine have been circulating in parts of Gurgaon and Mewat. 

 A group of parents, due to the misinformation going around, are suspicious that the vaccine will make their children sick or impotent.
 
 The district administration in Gurgaon intends to vaccinate over 2,200 children between the ages of 9 months to 2 years, along with 600 pregnant women. For this, 136 session sites will be set up across the district. This drive is crucial in order to increase the number of fully immunised children in the district. 
 
 “We face a lot of difficulties to vaccinate the children of migrant workers. Some of these children have never been vaccinated or have been only given a few vaccinations. Often their parents are reluctant or are under the impression that child was vaccinated earlier. However, they are unfortunate victims and potential carriers of these diseases and can circulate these in the other parts of society,” said Dr M P Singh, district urban nodal officer.
 
 The challenges are far bigger in Mewat, ever since the rumours broke out on March 3 that the state level deworming and supplement program was a conspiracy to sterilise Muslim children. All immunisation and supplement drives were then suspended for a month in the district. However, the distrust continued, and only around 3,373 children and 1,903 pregnant women were vaccinated in April. 
 
 Sources reveal that the health officials have been in talks with village and religious heads to clear the misunderstanding. On Sunday, health officials visited villages in the district and requested the residents to help in making the drive a success. “We are doing our best to clear doubts in people’s mind against the immunisation. However, situation is much better this time because a month ago the rumour was still fresh and the situation was very sensitive,” said Dr  , district immunisation officer, Mewat.
 
 
