BHUBANESWAR: Taking a cue from  , the tourism department has decided to organise Odisha Travel Bazaar here in October to market the state’s tourism destinations before tour operators from the country and abroad. 

 Department sources said the business-to-business event will continue for three days from October 12. The government expects the footfall of at least 200 delegates, including tour operators and hoteliers from the country and overseas nations during the proposed maiden programme. 
 
 “We will organise Odisha Travel Bazaar in collaboration with Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry (FICCI). We will give a scope to tour operators of our state to showcase our tourism potential to buyers (tour operators from other states and abroad). The FICCI already conducted   in Rajasthan with great success,” tourism deputy director Utpal Kumar Pati told TOI. Sources said the department would spend nearly Rs 1.5 crore on the event. 
 
 Though the state government had planned to organise the event last year, it could not be materialized. Tour operators in the state see hope to boost tourism through the B2B marketing event. “Such programme will obviously help us market our products. It will be great if FICCI brings quality buyers from abroad. It will not help if non-reputed international tour operators come, participate and leave,” said Yugabrata Kar, secretary of Odisha tour operators association. 
 
 At present, the tourism department is basking in glory after offering grand hospitality to foreign athletes and delegates, who came here to participate in the  . “We have asked tour operators of our state to showcase unexplored destinations before the visitors,” another tourism official said. 
 
 The Odisha Tourism drew flak for the drop in the number of foreign tourists to the state in 2015 despite spending huge funds in infrastructure development and promotional campaigns in the run-up to Nabakalebara festival. In 2015, there was a fall of 4,455 foreign tourists to the state as compared to 2014. While a total of 71, 426 foreign tourists visited the state in 2014, their footfall in the state came down to 66,971 in 2015. 
 
 However, the department said inflow of foreigners increased in 2016. Total 76,361 foreigners toured the state last year. “We continue to witness rising trend in the inflow of domestic tourists. While 117,86,117 domestic tourists visited Odisha in 2015, the number increased to 128,42,899 last year,” the official added. Countries like the UK and the US send a large share of tourists to Odisha followed by Germany, France and the  , official sources said.
 
