NOIDA: The builders’ conglomerate   on Sunday said that since the Uttar Pradesh government is yet form a regulator to implement the rules framed under Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, the builders in NCR would have to provide disclaimers of being   in case they are promoting their under-construction projects.

 The   will come into force in the country from May 1. As per the Act, a developer can seek registration of a project only after the rules are notified and the regulator appointed. 
 
 The Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Bill, 2016 was passed by Parliament in March last year and all the 92 sections of the Act come into effect from May 1. 
 
 In UP, the Rera was notified by Akhilesh Yadav government though the regulator was not set up. In the past few months, homebuyers from Noida and Greater Noida have been demanding that the UP government reinstate certain ‘pro-buyer’ clauses in the Uttar Pradesh Rera.
 
 In a recent meeting between the chief minister Yogi Aditya Nath and representatives of homebuyers of Noida, the chief minister had assured the latter that the Uttar Pradesh Rera would be pro-buyer and as stringent as the Central version of the Act.
 
 According to builders’ conglomerate Confederation of Real Estate Developers Associations of India (Credai), the builders have already been working on the lines of adapting to Rera and in the next few months, once the regulator is formally instituted in UP, the builders would be making a beeline to get themselves registered.
 
 “Once the regulator is formed, the builders will get themselves registered under the Act. The projects, with all its specifications, would then reflect on the website of the regulator. 
 
 This indicates total transparency on deliverable. However, as the regulator is not yet formed in UP, this is an interim period. The final deadline for compliance is July 31,” Manoj Gaur, president, Credai NCR told TOI.
 
 According to Gaur, till such time the regulator is established, the builders in NCR region would have to provide disclaimers of being Rera-compliant in case they are promoting their projects which are under construction. “Since there is still time for registration and the deadline is July 31, for all purposes of promotion, builders in UP must provide the disclaimer that their project is working towards Rera registration and is Rera compliant. Buyers should also look for the same,” Gaur said.
 
 “It has been a long struggle for Rera to get notified. Now we are waiting for the state government to implemented with clauses that protect existing buyers as much as it may protect new buyers,” Abhishek Kumar, president, Noida Extension Flat Owners Welfare Association (Nefowa), said.
 
 
