HYDERABAD: Is the playing career of  , the best doubles shuttler of the country, nearing an end?

 Recent developments indicate that as it has been reliably learnt that Jwala has been appointed as one of the coaches for the Indian team that will be take part in the Australia Open Super Series next month.
 
 When contacted Jwala refused to talk about this topic but divulged her future plans. The only Indian to feature in two doubles events at the  , Jwala has made immense contribution to team events. She along with   won a bronze at the   and gold at the  .
 
 After 18 years on the circuit, she has launched the   ( ) along with Franchise India in March but had then said that she would continue as a player. However, her playing days may end once she travels with the team as a coach.
 
 Unlike other traditional academies, Jwala's venture will focus on catering to the needs of several budding shuttlers. "The idea is to give more facilities to players and provide apart from coaching, support to talented shuttlers like funding, foreign tours, top class coaching etc. The basic idea is to create a franchise. There are a lot of underused stadia and school courts. Now many are looking up to badminton just for physical fitness. We want to create professional centres over there so that we give an option of picking badminton as a profession," said Jwala, adding that her academies will spread all over the country.
 
 "We have already started a centre of excellence in Hyderabad. Our partners Franchise India will bring sponsors. There are so many talented players but only players from one Academy have a support system. I want to create opportunities for players across the country. The progress that we made in the last couple of months is quite encouraging," she added.
 
 Jwala believes that despite so much talent in the country only a few like PV Sindhu are fortunate enough to get the required support. “I was once No.6 in the world but did not get any support. Otherwise I could have done even better. Look at Sindhu, since she was 13 she was taken care of and did not have to think about other aspects like finances etc. Had others got the same sort of assistance we could have seen more players. I want to do whatever I could for budding players,” the Hyderabadi said.
 
 Delighted with the performance of the doubles team in the Sudirman Cup, where India managed to beat a formidable team like Indonesia, Jwala said, “I am delighted with the way the doubles teams have performed in Australia. Without their contribution we could not have beaten a team like Indonesia. But we still need to do a lot. Take out Ashwini (Ponnappa) we don’t have a good doubles player. I have always been saying that we need to have a few good doubles teams.”
 
 
