NEW DELHI: The row over categorising   (ASC) officers as 'non-operational' when it comes to promotion continues to simmer despite three rounds of litigation in the   as an ASC major has moved a fresh petition seeking cancellation of his posting with counter-insurgency unit Rashtriya Rifles (RR). 

  After the   last year upheld the Ajay   Committee (AVSC) classification for promotion of officers in combat and services corps and settled the dispute by asking the authorities to release additional colonel posts for promotion of services corps officers, these officers demanded proportional increase in posts above the rank of colonel for promotion purposes. 
 
  With the SC refusing to entertain a review petition, over 100 officers of lieutenant colonel and major ranks of ASC recently moved a petition seeking parity in promotion with combat officers. They said they too got posted in operational areas and had given extreme sacrifices at par with combat officers. However, the SC's reluctance to entertain the petition forced them to withdraw it. 
 
 On Monday, Major   from ASC, posted with 44 RR, Shopian, moved the SC challenging his posting and rejection of his representation to Army authorities against the 'operational' area posting of a 'non-operational' category officer.
 
  "Having reiterated the position in the Supreme Court during previous hearings that services officers are not posted in operational areas, surprisingly, the Army authorities have rejected the representation stating that the vacancies in which the petitioners were being posted were to be staffed by services officers only," Major Kumar's petition said. 
 
  "The AVSC recommended command-exit policy provided for a command tenure of 2.5 years for infantry and artillery officers, three years for armoured officers, four years for engineers, signals and air defence officers and five years for services officers. This categorisation of tenure had a direct effect on the promotional avenues available to officers of various corps creating discrimination and batch disparity," the petition added. 
 
  Major Kumar said with the SC accepting the classification of 'operational' and 'non-operational' officers, the matter had reached finality and it was not open to Army authorities to post a 'non-operational' category officer in an 'operational' combat unit, he said. 
 
  The major added, "Services officers are routinely deployed in operational areas despite Army authorities holding them to be 'non-operational'. A large number of services officers have been martyred while serving in operational areas. Considering the policy of Army authorities regarding services officers, the petitioner cannot be compelled to serve in an operational area and to do so is in violation of his fundamental right and principles of natural justice." 
 
 
