There have been several cases of awe-inspiring stories being made into movies, transcending boundaries. Making films based on popular books or intriguing stories is nothing new to Hollywood. We have had several blockbusters that were based on novels, like Fight Club, Goodfellas, Psycho, and more. It is indeed a matter of pride that a few Hollywood movies are based on novels written by Indian authors, the latest to join the list being  , which is the adapted version of the book, A Long Way Home. Check out a list of movies that are based on novels by Indian authors...

 
 
 Billed as an emotionally-driven film, it has Dev Patel, Nicole Kidman, and several other Indian actors, playing pivotal roles in it. It is based on the true story of Saroo Brierley, an Indian-born Australian businessman who gets separated from his mother, and later adopted by an Australian couple. He later finds them after several years with the help of google maps. The story of the film is adapted from a non-fiction work titled A Long Way Home.
 
 
 
  This one revolves around Queen Victoria and her servant Abdul. The film is about their relationship and Abdul's journey to become one of the most influential court men in the Victorian Empire. UK-based Shrabani Basu told this story through her novel, Victoria and Abdul: The True Story of the Queen's Closet Confidant which is now being made into a movie. Directed by Stephen Frears, it has Ali Fazal and Judi Dench playing the lead roles.
 
 
 A Bengali family moves from Calcutta to New York. How the family struggles to cope up with the changes and the hardships which follow, is the story of Namesake, the movie that is adapted from the novel of the same name, written by Jhumpa Lahiri. The story was adapted for the screen by Sooni Taraporevala and was directed by Mira Nair, who is known for movies like Vanity Fair and A Monsoon Wedding. Tabu, Irrfan Khan and Kal Penn played the lead roles in this hit film.
 
 
 
  A slum boy from Mumbai becomes one of the contestants of the reality show, titled 'Who Wants To Be a Millionaire?' He gets every answer correct, when he is accused of cheating. He tells his story to the cops and tells them how successfully he has been answering every question. Does this story ring a bell? Well, it is the story of Slumdog Millionaire, which is adapted from the novel, Q & A written by Vikas Swarup. The movie had Dev Patel, Freida Pinto and Madhur Mittal playing the lead, and the film was directed by Danny Boyle. The highlight of the movie was the contribution of AR Rahman and Resul Pookutty who won Academy Awards later.
 
 
 
  This 1981 novel by Salman Rushdie dealt with British colonialism and independence, and the partition of British India. Saleem Sinai, the chief protagonist, doubles up as the narrator of the story. The movie came out in 2012 and was directed by Deepa Mehta. It had an ensemble cast, featuring Satya Bhabha, Shriya Saran, Siddharth Narayan, Ronit Roy, Anupam Kher, Shabana Azmi, and many more. The movie also did well in the film circuit and was shown at the Toronto International Film Festival, the Vancouver International Film Festival and BFI London Film Festival.
 
