Sweets and festivals in India go hand in hand - while there is gujiya for Holi, for   it is  . And on the occasion of Teej today, Delhiites are all set to gorge on this sweet delicacy, which is sold mainly at this time of the year. 

  Though the festival is mostly celebrated in UP and Rajasthan, for those with a sweet tooth, they don't mind buying ghevar - as is evident in Delhi markets in the last few days - whether they are celebrating at home or not. When we visited Bengali Market, the mithaiwalas shared how they have stocked up on all kinds and sizes of ghevar - malai, kesar or simply plain ghevar to cater to the customers' demand. As Anan Gupta from a popular sweet shop in   points out, "We sell around 20kg of ghevar every day. This sweet is only available during this month, so a large number of people buy the sweet around this time. The sale drops after Rakhi." 
 
  
  (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
  
 The four varieties of ghevar that seem to be ruling Delhi markets are plain ghevar, malai ghevar, kesar ghevar and kesar-malai ghevar. Girish Aggarwal, who has a shop in Bengali Market, tells us, "This is the time when ghevar is sold the most. Since it takes almost a day to prepare ghevar, usually, we do not experiment with flavours that only one or two people would buy. We have plain, malai, kesar and kesar-malai ghevar. People enjoy malai ghevar the most. We also have kesar ghevar in small sizes for those who don’t want to buy the usual size."
 
  Pooja Aggarwal, who has a shop in the same market, adds, "Our clientele comes from south and central Delhi. They like sweets, but they are also concerned about their calories. They usually buy plain or kesar ghevar, which do not have a lot of sugar syrup. We make approximately five-six thals of ghevar each day, and each thal has around 70-80 ghevars. At the end of the day, all of them are sold. This shows how popular ghevar is."
 
 
  
  (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
  
 Geetanjali Sinha from one of the shops in Bengali Market tells us, "At our shop, 1kg plain ghevar is priced at Rs500 and kesar malai is available for Rs600. The customers are buying malai ghevar the most, which is for Rs560 for 1kg."
 
  The other two shops have the same price for different kinds of ghevar. Plain ghevar is available for around Rs440 per kg, malai ghevar for Rs480, kesar for Rs520 and kesar-malai ghevar for Rs560. Nakul, one of the workers at a shop in the market, tells us, "You can also have vanilla flavour in ghevar. But those are made only if you take one-two thals of ghevar and you book well in advance."
 
  
 Though the sweet is particularly associated with Teej, those who love ghevar need no reason to buy it. Kiran Sachdeva, a resident of Sant Nagar, says, "We don't celebrate Teej, but everyone in my family loves ghevar. I prefer to take half a kilo of each variety whenever I come to the market." Kamla Singh, a resident of Bengali Market, adds, "I actually wait for this season so that I can eat ghevar!"
 
 
  
 
 
