DEHRADUN: A month after the   was opened to public, the work on its service road is still far from over. Commuters claim that without the service lane the flyover is of no use.
 They also say that   in the construction of the flyover was the reason that they have had to travel on potholed roads for last two years. The locals complain that apart from  , nothing else has been done for the lane which sees a lot of vehicular traffic especially of buses.
  
  “The authorities have totally neglected the service lane, which is actually used far more than the   and there is heavy traffic on the road because of the bus stand. It has been a month now since the flyover was inaugurated, but, unfortunately, the work on the service lane is far from over,” said Mohammad Yasin, a resident of Turner Road.
  
  The 983-metre ISBT flyover, which connects Transport Nagar to Shimla Bypass, was made with a budget of Rs 54 crore and was completed last year in December after being under construction since 2014. Surinder Pal Singh, another local, said: “Stones are being used to cover the potholes. Parts of the service lane are being repaired, but it is happening at a very slow pace.”
  
  NHAI (PWD), which is responsible for the construction of the flyover, said that they are working on the service road. Rajesh Sharma, superintendent engineer, PWD (NHAI) told TOI: “The work is in progress but it will take at least another month before the service roads are completely repaired. We are working as many hours as we can but with constant traffic, it becomes slightly difficult. We are also looking at beautification and landscaping under the flyover.”
  
  “Last week, when it rained in the city, a part of the potholed service road again became full of mud and slush. Before taking on beautification, the civic authorities should first ensure better road. Our numerous complaints were ignored. We understand there are limitations, but better planning on the part of the responsible department would have ensured quicker as well as better road repairs,” said Shivam Devrani, a resident of Bharuwala.
