CHENNAI: Monday's fire in Vadapalani that claimed   shows how little the   has changed in enforcement of rules against  .
Even 48 hours after the blaze, the civic body's course of action has been to “wait for further orders from the high court“, as one official put it.
 
 This is the grim reality in Chennai, where almost every new building violates plans approved by the Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority ( ). The violations differ only in scale.
 
 Since 2010, the CMDA has issued 515 `lock and seal' notices to structures built in violation of approved plans. In several cases, the offenders either appeal to the government for protection from CMDA orders or approach the high court for stay orders.The corporation and CMDA is then left with no choice but to wait till legal or other issues are resolved.
 
 The sealing action is just a token gesture. Taping an `X' to the Vadapalani building's wall did not stop the owner from reopening the sealed portion to tenants.
 
 “It is procedural lacuna,“ said N V Rakhunath, former CMDA chief planner. “The `lock-and-seal' idea was to curtail economic benefits to building owners because we found demolishing them would be an unrealistic target.“
 
 The CMDA doesn't have adequate manpower to monitor violations in its 1,189sqkm jurisdiction. So it has delegated enforcement powers to the local bodies. “It is a mistake by officials. The building did not have setback area.The corporation should ensure it conducts periodic safety checks,“ Builders Association of India former national president R Radhakrishnan said.
 
 Former DMK councillor Deva Jawahar pointed out that the corporation in 2011 adopted a resolution approving stringent action against ward and zone-level officials if sealed buildings were reoccupied. “The resolution remains on paper,“ he said.
 
 Jawahar said approved plan documents ought to be uploaded on a public database to prevent violations because the builder has to be transparent. “The question on everyone's mind now is how did owner obtained electricity and water connections,“ he said. “This means these departments operate in a silo. Only a joint committee of these departments can tackle the issue.“
 
