Bengaluru: Those going to beauty parlours for manicures and pedicures and dentists to fix teeth or gum problems need to watch out. Doctors have warned about   issues in beauty parlours and usage of non-sterilized equipment by dentists.

 City doctors are seeing patients with no history of infection walking in with   B and C (liver disorders) due to exposure to inadequately sterilized needles. They warned people to be wary about fish pedicures and foot spas where containers, often unchanged, result in them contracting these ailments.
 
 Dr BS Ravindra, chief consultant, gastroenterology department, BGS Global Hospital, said: “Women are more prone to develop hepatitis if proper measures and hygiene are not maintained while enjoying their   or  . These viruses are transmitted through blood and Hepatitis B is 50-100 times more dangerous than HIV, while Hepatitis C is 10 times more deadly.”
 
 Contraction of hepatitis through manicure and pedicure is initially asymptomatic. “But they stay in the body for up to 25 years and then cause serious liver problems,” Dr Ravindra added.
 
 Patient-to-patient transmission of Hepatitis C, besides unhygienic use of needles and tools, occurring in dentists chambers is a matter of concern, say doctors.
 
 “The virus can be transmitted from one person to another based on contact. If any   has Hepatitis B, he can transmit it to the patient and vice-versa,” said Dr Dinesh Kini K, director, Institute of Digestive and Hepato-Pancreatico-Biliary (HPB) Sciences, Sakra World Hospital. 
 
 Around 20% of adult patients Dr Kini treats for chronic hepatitis have contracted the infection due to improper sterilization of instruments used for manicure, pedicure and dental procedures.
 
 Dr Nikhil Bondade, consultant gastroenterologist and hepatologist, Narayana Health City, said: “Parlours and dentists should either use new instruments for every customer or sterilize instruments as per scientific protocols.”
 
 “The transmission can be avoided if proper hygiene training is conducted for all nail salon workers. All workers should be educated about how hepatitis and other blood-borne infections are transmitted,” added Dr N Arun Kumar, head of surgery, St. Martha’s Hospital.
 
 
