It’s not too often that we come across a social media account owned by an animal. Yes, you heard that right! A social media account owned by a cat or a dog is a reality. Many celebs from Tellytown have put together videos and pictures of their pets and uploaded them on social media on behalf of their pets. These TV stars faithfully share daily updates of their ‘babies’ (as they call their pets) with their legions of fans on social media.Here’s taking a quick look at the four-legged social media stars who have their own fan club. 
  

 
 
 Ankita Bhargava &  
 
  4394
 @iamnaughtypatel
 Naughty who recently turned two has played an important part in Ankita Bhargava and Karan Patel’s love story. “When we went on the first date we realised that both of us had owned dogs whom we had named Naughty at some point in our lives,so we wanted to name our chocolate brown labrador Naughty too,” says Ankita who has been posting pictures-videos of the lab frequently. “I never felt the need to have an account for him,but when a fan said that she wanted to make an account for him, I agreed. As parents Karan and I have been sharing ‘naughty’ moments of our child on social media ever since,”adds Ankita.
 
  
  
 
 
 
  Suyyash Rai & Kishwer Merchan
 
  5816
 @batuknathrai
 Having an account in Batuk’s name was a random idea confesses Suyyash Rai. “One day I decided to upload the pictures and videos instead of keeping them on my phone. Uploading from these videos/pictures my account wouldn’t make sense,so I made one dedicated ID specially for Batuk,”says Suyyash. The two month old beagle has been with the Rai household for about 20 days,but has already earned the attention of many fans. Suyyash is not happy with fans sending hate messages. “A while back I saw some direct messages on Batuk’s account where some followers said I should stop posting pictures of animals. All I want to say through this account is that animals are adorable and harmless unless they are instigated and there should be no negativity about them.”
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  & Rohit Reddy
 
 4586
 @snuglymowgli 
 The   account by the name of snuglymowgli is handled by Anita Hasanandani and Rohit Reddy. “Well my Mowgli is so cute,that I love to share his cuteness with all my fans who love me. And also they get to see more of me and my husband via him,” says Anita. The account posts pictures of Mowgli and his adventures around the house. 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  & Diksha Rampal Malhotra
 
  102
 @luckmalhotra 
 Shaleen Malhotra confides that his pet labrador is an important part of his life. “For me he is my son. I hate calling him a dog and I don’t want others to do so either. When he turned four I thought of making an account for him just like a teenager would make one for himself.” Shaleen says, “Through Luck’s account I want to share his cuteness quotient with the world.I want his social media followers to smile everytime they see a post from him.”
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 Alok Narula & Anshu Narula
 
 
 @fluffy_ narula _the_chow 
 Fluffy’s account is handled by Alok Narula’s wife Anshu. “The reason behind having this Instagram account was simply to educate people about this breed. Fluffy belongs to the Chow Chow breed of Northern China. As this breed grows old it turns soft and fluffy like a teddy bear. This breed also has a blue tongue,” says Alok. Alok also believes that a pet when owned becomes a part of the family and should not be abandoned after it grows old. “I want people to know more about dogs and tell them how selfless they can be Fluffy de-stresses me after a long work’s day and bring in positivity,”says Alok.
 
 
 
 
 
