NEW DELHI: The  , the organisation established by   chief minister  , will be closely vetting new applications for membership in order to safeguard its reputation.
 
  Apart from having to submit   and voter ID details, applicants will go through a detailed background check that may take about six months.
  
  There’s been a rush of people looking to enrol, given the group’s proximity to the new chief minister. “Be very careful before inducting any new members into the organisation,” says a note posted on the Hindu Yuva Vahini website. “Lots of people could be trying to join Hindu Yuva Vahini as part of a plot to defame the organisation.” Adityanath, who founded the group in 2002, is its Mukhya Sanrakshak or chief patron.
  
  “There is renewed interest in Hindu Yuva Vahini amongst people in UP and other states,” said  , state chief of the Hindu Yuva Vahini. “But we are alive to the fact that many people want to join us just to spoil our image. We do not want any mafia or criminal elements to join us. Hence, we will subject people to complete background checks.”
  
  Singh, also MLA from Domariyaganj, is a close aide of the chief minister. All applications for membership have to be made online with personal information along with scanned copies of Aadhaar and voter ID cards. Membership will be granted after “detailed background checks and looking at the activities of the member for six months,” said Singh.
  
  Previously, those looking to join could pay Rs 101 or Rs 11 to become permanent or active members, respectively, at the outfit’s district, block or panchayat level office.
  
  “No local office of ours will now be inducting members,” Singh said. The whole world was in awe of Adityanath’s rise to chief ministership and no member could become a blot on his image, he said.
  
  Toward that end, even if a person is inducted into the Hindu Yuva Vahini after clearing checks, he will be closely monitored for another six months before being considered for any post, Singh said.
  
  “Hindu Yuva Vahini has a constitution, as per which membership can be cancelled if one is convicted in any cognisable offence by a court,” he said. The outfit aims to re-establish Hindu religion and culture, seek a complete ban on cow slaughter and re-conversion to the Hindu faith by consensus.
  
