New Delhi: The Central Statistics Office ( ) may have projected a slower economic growth in real terms but a faster-than-budgeted rise in gross domestic product ( ) at   may actually help the government fare better than the estimated   for the current financial year.

 While presenting the budget, finance minister Arun   had estimated that the economy would grow 11% at current market prices. But the CSO’s first advance estimates released on Friday evening indicated that the economy would grow at 11.9%.
 
 While government finances are comfortable at the moment, there is pressure meeting the disinvestment and spectrum sale targets, which are expected to fall short of the budget estimate. The government has so far raised Rs 23,528.73 crore. But with Jaitley announcing that both direct and indirect tax collections would be higher than the budgeted level of Rs 10.5 lakh crore, a part of the gap could be filled. And, the government’s decision to reduce its borrowing during the year has given hope to market players that the fiscal deficit target would be met.
 
 Assuming that the government sticks to its fiscal deficit estimate of Rs 5.34 lakh crore, it may end up with a deficit of 3.51% of GDP, compared to the budget estimate of 3.54%. And, this is purely going to be on account of a bigger base, without factoring in the last quarter rush to step up disinvestment and prune expenditure, especially where ministries and departments have been slow off the blocks.
 
 “On the whole, the upside to a lower than anticipated GDP estimate in FY17 will give the government a first mover advantage in terms of a higher than normal trend nominal GDP in FY18. This may allow an absolute expansion in fiscal deficit numbers for FY18, without harming the fiscal deficit ratio in totality,” Soumya Kanti Ghosh, group chief economic adviser, SBI, said in a note.
 
 Globally, investors look at government’s fiscal deficit numbers closely and the Modi government has so far managed to stick to its fiscal consolidation road map, having inherited a deficit of 4.1% of GDP. Jaitley is expected to announce a continuation of the fiscal consolidation plan in 2017-18 as well based on expectations that the tax drive against those stashing black money during demonetisation will yield higher revenues. In any case, the government expects more revenues to flow as the cash economy shrinks, especially after GST is implemented. But the minister may just opt to change the fiscal arithmetic a little based on the recommendations of the high-powered committee headed by former Planning Commission member N K Singh.
 
 
