AHMEDABAD: Crime branch sleuths from Ahmedabad arrested  , 49, a major operative of the Indian Mujahideen (IM), from the  , Kerala, on Tuesday night. Pottanikkal, a Mallapuram resident, is a key accused in the July 2008 Ahmedabad serial blasts and in the case pertaining to the planting of 29 bombs in Surat.

  According to crime branch sources, Pottanikkal had been living in Dubai for nine years. Sources said that Pottanikkal had been recently jailed in Dubai as his passport — bearing the number F 8012606 — had expired in 2016. An emergency certificate was issued by the Indian authorities to enable his deportation, sources said. After the initial interrogation by various agencies in Kerala, he was handed over to the Gujarat Police. His arrest is a major breakthrough for the investigating agencies as he could spill the beans on other absconding terrorists including   and  .
 
 “Pottanikkal was with another IM operative in Dubai. We are expecting his arrest soon,” a senior crime branch official said. His name first figured in the confession of E T Sainuddin alias Sathar Bhai, who was arrested in 2009 for his alleged connection with bomb blasts at various places in India. 
 
 Deputy commissioner of police, Ahmedabad crime branch, Deepan Bhadran said that a specific tip-off had been received that Pottanikkal would arrive in Kerala. A team led by ACP B C Solanki, inspector S L Chaudhary, and sub-inspector J M Patel was despatched to Kerala.
 
 “With the help of central agencies and Kerala Police, we identified Pottanikkal as he approached the immigration counter and picked him up,” Bhadran said. “Pottanikkal was flown to Ahmedabad on Wednesday morning. He has been arrested in the serial blasts case.” 
 
 Investigators said Pottanikkal had put Sainuddin and Surfuddin in touch with the Bhatkals. The brothers wanted Sainuddin, who is an expert in electronics, to devise integrated chips to be used as timer devices in bombs. “While the 20 bombs placed in Ahmedabad killed 56 and injured more than 240, the bombs in Surat did not explode because of faulty timer chips,” the senior crime branch official said. “Sainuddin and Surfuddin had to face the wrath of the Bhatkal brothers for the blunder.”
 
 Senior crime branch officials said that Pottanikkal comes from a wealthy family. His father, Abdul Qadar, owns a rice mill in Mallapuram. “His brother lives abroad. It is learnt through sources that Pottanikkal’s main aim was to join the D gang of Dawood Ibrahim and take part in more terrorist activities,” the official said.
 
 A court has granted police remand for Pottanikkal till June 2 for questioning over the Civil hospital blast which killed more than 42 people. Till now, 79 accused have been arrested in the serial blasts case. Eighteen, including Bhatkal brothers and Abdul Subhal alias Tuakeer, are still absconding.
 
 
 
 
 Investigators said Pottanikkalwas very close to IM founders, Riyaz and Iqbal Bhatkal, and to Yasin Bhatkal. “We are probing others who were in touch with Pottenikkal,” an investigator said.
 
