MADURAI: Actor Dhanush, who was dragged into a paternity suit appeared before the   of the   on Tuesday where government doctors verified his identification marks. Dhanush was summoned by   last Friday to appear before it on February 28, despite the actor filing a petition seeking to quash the proceedings initiated by the judicial magistrate court in Melur based on a case filed by a couple - R Kathiresan, 65, and his wife Meenakshi, 53, of Madurai - seeking maintenance from him, claiming that he was their son.

 On Tuesday, the actor appeared in court along with his father and director Kasthuri Raja and mother Vijayalakshmi. When his case came up for hearing, the actor appeared before Justice   who then directed the doctors to verify Dhanush’s identification marks in the chamber of the high court bench’s registrar (judicial) G Ilangovan. Accordingly, the doctors carried out the task in half an hour. 
 
 Meanwhile, the couple’s counsel raised a new ground with regard to the actor’s community. “It has been mentioned in the certificate produced by the actor’s side that Dhanush belongs to scheduled caste community. The director Kasthuri Raja and his wife Vijayalakshmi hailed from Bodi taluk in Theni district, who belong to backward class community. While being so, how could their alleged son (Dhanush) belong to scheduled caste community? Thus, the court needs to hear the issue also,” the counsel said. 
 
 But, the court directed the couple’s counsel to file a separate petition in that regard and told that it would take that into account in the final hearing and adjourned the case to March 2 for final hearing. 
 
 It may be recalled that the actor had denied stating that he was the couple’s son and that somebody was behind them to extract money from him. Besides that, the couple are not even remotely connected to him. He had also said that the identification marks mentioned by the couple that he has a mole on the collar bone and a scar on the forearm were not true. 
 
 However, the couple’s side had countered his denial. They said the actor had submitted a birth certificate, according to which he was born on July 28, 1983. Actually, the birth certificate was not genuine, as his name was not mentioned on it. On June 21, 1993, the birth certificate was issued. It means 10 years after the birth of the petitioner (actor), it was issued. If the certificate was true, the actor would have been studying Class 5 at that time. How can a birth certificate issued after 10 years of birth, be given without mentioning the name of the child?, the couple’s side had asked.
 
