COIMBATORE: The Coimbatore district is likely to get its first lot of ‘certified’   and vegetables in July. As many as 83 farmers in the district have registered for the cultivation of organic vegetables, which will be tested regularly along with the soil in their land. They have signed an undertaking to organically cultivate vegetables across one hectare each.

 Two years ago, Kerala’s health department issued a notice to   about the presence of high pesticide levels in its fruits and vegetables. They had even threatened to ban vegetables from Tamil Nadu. Since then, the state government has got into an overdrive to encourage production of organic vegetables and crops.
 
 The farmers spread across Pollachi, Annamalai North, Karamadai and   blocks, will cultivate any fruit or vegetable organically across one hectare of their land, said deputy director, horticulture,  . “There are around 20 farmers in each of the four blocks. The blocks have been allotted a fund of Rs 7 lakh each for preparing organic pesticide and insecticides like Panchakavyam, collecting cow urine and neem oil,” said the director. “The farmers have to buy their own seeds and have agreed to have their produce, farms and soils tested regularly for the certification process,” he said.
 
 To be on the safer side, a majority of the farmers chosen for the scheme are those who have already been trying to practice or practicing organic farming for at least two years. 
 
 “For example, in Thondamuthur, a majority of the farmers who have enrolled are those with perennial crops like cocoa, areca nut, pepper, mangoes and even sapottaa. They are also ones with assured water supply from bores,” said assistant director, horticulture, Thondamuthur, Vasanthi Gnanasekaran. “None of them have registered for staple vegetables like tomato, onion, lady’s finger, brinjal etc,” she said.
 
 This is part of the central government scheme,  , to promote organic farming and certification of organic vegetables. “Under this scheme, they not only get some funds to help prepare organic fertilizers and pesticides, but they also get exempted from having to pay the yearly fee of Rs 2,500 to get the organic inspection and certification,” said Gnansekaran. The certification will be done by the regional council for Participatory Guarantee System for India (PGS), Mysore.
 
 The farmers are free to either form a co-operative and sell their produce to a wholesaler or director or even choose to export them.
 
