TIRUVANNAMALAI: A   and conductor attached to the Chengam   depot of the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation Tiruvannamalai ( ) were arrested for transporting  . Forest department officials have also confiscated a government bus attached to the Chengam bus depot, Tiruvannamalai, as the vehicle was used to transport deer meat.

 Acting on a tip, Chengam forest ranger P V Anbu and his subordinates intercepted the government bus with the registration number TN 23 M 1951, plying between Chengam and   village at Illankunni at 6pm on Friday. The officials found 15kg deer meat behind the driver seat. “We found 15 bags of meat, each weighing 1kg,” said the Anbu.
 
 Following the seizure of the meat of teh animal, which falls under Schedule III of Protected Animal under Wildlife Protection Act, forest officials confiscated the bus and took the driver M Kannan, 42, a native of Illankunni, and conductor Ethiraj , 46, a native Andiyapalam near Tiruvannamalai, for inquiry. The driver reportedly told the officials that Gopinathan (alias) Gopi, a driver of Chengam depot had asked him to collect the meat from a person in Illankunni village. He said he had nothing to do with the it. “We went in search of Gopi, but he is absconding. We will get a warrant against him and will soon arrest him,” said the ranger.
 
 Forest department officials have invoked sections 9 (prohibition of hunting - no person shall hunt any wild animals specified in schedules in the act), 39 (b) [meat derived from any wild animal referred to in clause (a) in the act] and (d) [vehicle that has been used for committing an offence] of the Wildlife (Protection) Act 1972.
 
 “We have produced the vehicle before the Judicial Magistrate Court in Chengam and also handed over the meat as material evidence before the court. After obtaining permission from the court, the sample of the meat would be sent to the forensic lab to determine from which animal, the meat was derived,” added the official.
 
 A fine to the tune of Rs 25,000 would be slapped on the offenders, or they would be given an imprisonment for a maximum of six months, he further said.
 
