NASHIK: The Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS) on Tuesday decided to form a committee to review some references about gender and caste system in the ancient Ayurveda reference books. The academic council will decide the members and the timeframe of the committee later. 

 This decision came after some activists raised objections over the contents of a textbook of MUHS's Bachelor of Ayurveda, Medicine and Surgery referring to some techniques to conceive a male child. 
 
 "The academic council of the university has decided to form a committee headed by Dean of Ayurveda in MUHS Satish Dumbre to review such references in old texts. This committee will submit its report to the Central Council of Indian Medicine (CCIM), which is the only academic authority to change, cut or modify such references in the syllabus," said MUHS registrar Kalidas Chavan. 
 
 Dumbre, who will head this committee, said the university had already informed the CCIM about the references in the textbook. "The MUHS has no authority to change or cut some portion of the syllabus. However, we had raised this issue several times in the past that the Council should modify some references in compliance with the present law," said Dumbre. 
 
 The current BAMS syllabus textbook has been copied from Charaka Samhita, which shares techniques to conceive a male child. 
 
 Ganesh Borhade, a member of the district supervisory board of the PreConception and Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques (PCPNDT) Act, who is also associated with the   supervised by advocate  , had recently raised objections to the contents of the textbook. 
 
 "This issue is not new. The Charaka Samhita is at least 3,000 years old. The references in the ancient text might not go with today's law and lifestyle. If the CCIM approves, the MUHS is ready to make modifications in this regard," said Chavan, adding that the same textbook also mentions about the PCPNDT Act and the legal provisions in it so aware students about the present law. 
 
 Senior ayurvedic practitioner   said the issue should be handled on an academic level. "Students must know every aspect of the science. On the other hand, they should also know the present situation, law and practice. Hence, the MUHS's decision to review such references and suggest modifications is worth welcoming," he said.
 
