MUMBAI:   Plc, the world’s largest liquor company, will hold back the remaining $35 million of the $75 million it had agreed to pay   as part of a settlement, said two executives aware of the development. It will instead seek to recover dues from the absconding businessman, they added.
 
  These dues include $135 million that Diageo had given to Standard Chartered Bank as a conditional guarantee for the liabilities of Watson Ltd, a company affiliated with Mallya. The British liquor company will also claim Mallya’s stake in the Force India Formula One team that had been pledged as security for Watson.
  
  Diageo, the maker of Johnnie Walker scotch and Smirnoff vodka, paid $40 million of the settlement that was reached last year after Mallya agreed to walk away from United Spirits (USL). The rest of the money was to be paid in two equal instalments over the next few years.
  
  
  
  
  “The remaining $35 million will not be paid now,” said the two persons cited above. “The decision to not honour the deal signed with Mallya is also on account of charges of various financial misappropriations from USL and fund diversion by him.”
  
  When Diageo acquired control of USL in 2012, it issued a guarantee to Standard Chartered against Watson’s debt to release USL stock that was to be acquired as part of the deal. Diageo has the benefit of counter-indemnities from Watson and Mallya in respect of its liabilities under the guarantee. Diageo declined to comment. Mallya did not respond to an email on the matter.
  
  The businessman has stayed away from India despite being asked to return for questioning over alleged diversion of loans that haven’t been repaid following the collapse of   Airlines.
  
  The Indian unit of Diageo filed multiple complaints against Mallya after inquiries uncovered “improper transactions” worth Rs 1,225.30 crore. USL said Mallya had diverted the funds to nearly half-a-dozen companies in which he had a direct or indirect interest, mostly located in tax havens.
  
  The private shareholder agreement between Diageo and Mallya last year was subject to several clauses and the payout was to be made in three tranches. Diageo has been criticised for giving Mallya a sweet deal despite the USL board’s complaints over initial findings that he had violated several laws.
  
  USL, the maker of McDowell’s No 1and Royal Challenge, has provided for nearly all amounts identified in the inquiry in its financial statements through impairments in value or loss of sale of subsidiaries. Hence, analysts don’t expect any impact on financial implications in terms of recovery.
  
  The move won’t have any material impact on USL except that it might reduce some overheads such as legal costs in the future, said Abneesh Roy, senior vice-president at Edelweiss Securities. The funds were shown on USL’s books already so there won’t be any financial implications in terms of recovery, he said.
  
  For Diageo, India now accounts for almost 40% of sales volume and 9% of net sales. India is the largest whisky market in the world, selling almost 200 million cases. However, there is a stark difference between volume and value with the average retail price per 750 ml in the rest of the world being more than five times that in India.
  
  Hence, Diageo has been driving premiumisation as the prestige and above segment is also where most of the spirits industry profit pool is — it is expected to contribute 70% of spirits industry profits by 2021. 
