AHMEDABAD: While tension is building on the  , some who fought for India in the 1962 war with China have queued up before courts against the   to the tune of lakhs from them. In 2015-16, over 100 such officers who are drawing pension received recovery notices which said that they had been overpaid for nearly a decade. The notice said that the extra money should be deposited within seven days, or the amount would be deducted from their accounts.

 One such case involves Anand-based Lt Colonel Ram Kumar Gupta, who like many others, was an emergency commission officer (ECO) in 1962 with the Indian Army. In the Army, he won many accolades for his meritorious service. He was relieved from service in 1967. He joined the National Cadet Corps (NCC) as full-time officer in 1968 and retired in 1955 as Major and was given the selection grade of Lt Colonel.
 
 On June 3, 2016, he received a notice of recovery of Rs 17.57 lakh. He was informed that he had been overpaid from 2006 to 2016. The notice was issued by the State Bank of India, which manages his pension accounts. This happened at the behest of the Centre and Principal Controller of Defence Accounts (Pension).
 
 The retired officer approached the Gujarat high court, complaining that the government had begun deducting more than 2/3 of his pension. However, an issue of jurisdiction arose. After a prolonged hearing, the HC on July 7 asked the retired officer to approach the Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT). The Centre had argued that after his release from active service of the Army, he had joined the NCC and ceased to be a member of  . The Centre said any dispute with regard to his pension was in the remit of the   (Pension) Rules, though he is entitled to receive the pension paid to defence civilian.
 
 It is difficult for these veterans to accept being treated as civil officers in the pension dispute, though many of them have approached CATs in various states. Lt Colonel Inder Bhalla, who lives in Ahmedabad, served for seven years as ECO until 1969. He received a notice of recovery of over Rs 15 lakh. “Army officers are remembered only during war,” he said. “They are forgotten in India in the time of peace.”
 
