GHAZIABAD: Regular visitors to the Ghaziabad Development Authority’s office at Navyug Market would know Ghanshyam, the man who sells ‘paan’ from a kiosk near the office. The income-tax department has found Rs 5 crore in his account, all deposited between November 9 and December 31 last year, the duration of the demonetisation exercise.

 But ‘paan’ wasn’t the only thing Ghanshyam was selling. He told income-tax sleuths he had agreed to let a property dealer,  , use his bank account in exchange for a monthly payment of Rs 8,000, and it was Chaudhary who operated the account.
 
 It now seems many people, including jewellers, in Delhi and Meerut got their 
  regularised through Ghanshyam’s account, with Chaudhary as the conduit. In the Nehru Nagar branch of Jammu & Kashmir Bank where Ghanshyam has his account, two other accounts with suspicious transactions were scanned by I-T sleuths. The total deposits in these accounts were Rs 12 crore.
 
 “Our investigations revealed these two savings accounts were bogus and had been opened with the help of fake documents,” a senior I-T officer told TOI. 
 
 “The sum total of cash deposited in 
  of Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 into these accounts during the period was around Rs 12 crore. During our inquiry, it was revealed that these two accounts were also being operated by Rahul Chaudhary,” the officer added.
 
 Neither Ghanshyam nor Chaudhary has been arrested because the   is yet to file a case. Sleuths are still examining a maze of transactions that saw money flow into and out of Ghanshyam’s account. It is also being investigated if the ‘paan’ shop owner got a commission from the conversions that Chaudhary carried out on behalf of various people in Delhi and Meerut. 
 
 Chaudhary lives in New Panchwati Colony of Ghaziabad. According to IT officials, after the deposits, Chaudhary transferred certain amounts through RTGS to various savings accounts in Delhi and Meerut. In the last week of December, Rs 50 lakh was transferred from one of the savings accounts to the account of Sheetal Chandna in Delhi’s Model Town.
 
 “Chandna admitted during investigations she had given Rs 50 lakh in old currency notes to Chaudhary who had promised to deposit the money into her account within a month through electronic transfer. Chaudhary had promised to convert the cash against the payment of commission. So far, we have found the involvement of at least one more person with Chaudhary. A case is likely to be registered in Ghaziabad next week,” the officer said.
 
 The I-T department is investigating three other savings accounts into which various amounts of cash were transferred by Chaudhary during this period. Two of these accounts belong to jewellers in Meerut. Another savings account belongs to   in AGCR Enclave of Delhi.
 
 
