PUNE:   is not a   but he believes that there is life in   beyond the age of 35.

 A Chinchwad resident, Patil (38) has been winning laurels for the country in Senior Olympics. Despite holding a day job as a salesman, his commitment to sports has been unwavering.
 
 Patil, who has a 10-year-old son, will travel to Auckland later this week to participate in the  , also known as Senior Olympics. In the previous edition of the same meet — held in Turin, Italy, in 2013 — Patil had won three medals: a silver in the triple jump and two bronze medals in the long jump and 4x400m relay.
 
 “That was in the 30-34 age section,” he told TOI. “This time, I will compete in the 35-39 age category. I’m jumping 6-plus metres consistently. And my aim is to win at least two silver medals,” said 5-foot-seven-inch sportsman who looks slim and fit and weighs just 47kg.
 
 But his life is by no means easy. “I wake up at 5.30 am after going to bed after 11pm,” he said. “I train for at least four hours a day in two sessions --- first, at   at Bhosari, and then at Pradhikaran ground, Nigdi, under Sanjay Kale sir. This, besides my regular job of selling outdoor gym equipment due to which my food intake is and irregular,” he said.
 
 “If some sponsor gives me Rs 45,000 a month, I can concentrate just on training and giving rest to my body. My performance is bound to go up.”
 
 In the long jump, his best Masters’ jump is 6.39m. The Indian National record in the open section is 8.19m.
 
 “I have never played in India’s open nationals,” said Patil. “The other challenges of life kept me away from the game. I served as a purchase manager in various industries and excelled in industrial meets at the amateur level.
 
 “I compete purely for pleasure, and with great support from my wife Sunita. I raise my own funds. I still need more than Rs 50,000 for the New Zealand trip. I’m seeking the money as a loan. I have already lost four international gold medals at the Masters’ level due to lack of funding.”
 
 Patil acknowledges that the competition at the Masters’ level is not top class compared with year’s best timings by professional athletes. “But to jump six-plus metres after the age of 35 isn’t easy. You have to train regularly. That’s why the number of competitors in my event at the World Master won’t exceed 10.”
 
 Patil said he wants to pass on the message to Indian athletes through his performances that there is life in active sports beyond age 35. “You can realise your dream of wearing Indian tracksuit and win medals for the country though you are not officially sponsored. There are 5-6 international Masters’ events in a year besides Senior Olympics every four years.”
 
 Patil said since the World Masters Games is an IOC-approved event, the anti-doping measures are taken care of. He was never tested though.
 
 “I love my body too much. So, the use of drugs is out of question. Moreover, I’m not playing the sport at a professional level to get some monetary benefit out of it. My goal is to compete till the age of 80.”
 
