NOIDA: The   district administration may place a demand for more bank branches and ATMs to enrol and manage fresh accounts of over three lakh factory workers who are to be enrolled into the   system.

 Claiming that the existing number of banks with their existing staff members may not be adequate to handle the pressure of additional customers in the future, N P Singh, the district magistrate of GB Nagar, on Friday created a committee to look at the ground reality of the district’s banking needs.
 
 Singh facilitated the formation of a core committee of eight members consisting of members from banks, labour department officers and industry representatives so that bank accounts of over three lakh minimum wage earners who were so far only paid in cash, can be enrolled into the banking system. The committee was set up after the DM hosted a meeting with industry members, labour department officials and bankers and will provide feedback on the future need for bank branches and ATM machines to tackle customer flow.
 
 “The committee has been formed and we will now try and work on creating the accounts. We have called for a meeting on Monday again to work out the procedures by which all these accounts will be opened,”  , president of  , said.
 
 “Bank account opening is crucial to keeping the district’s economy in shape. We do not want unnecessary layoffs and shifts in how our industry is functioning here. So the committee will facilitate the opening of accounts,” Singh said.
 
 Even as the accounts are to be opened over the coming months, Singh said he might consider writing to RBI to allow additional bank branches to the district. “With so many people now coming on to the banking platform, we will take stock of the capacity of all the branches in the industrial sectors of Noida,” Singh said.
 
 He said if we they are found ill-equipped to cater to the need of the industry here, a true estimate of that will be made and conveyed to the RBI.
 
 Noida and Greater Noida together have more than 9,000 industrial units, which employ over seven lakh workers. Of these, over three lakh are minimum wage earners and were traditionally paid their wages in cash. 
 
 The   move announced on November 8 has thrown the salary disbursement of these employees out of gear because of a restriction in cash availability.
 
 
