PUNE:   with couples away at work have become a fertile   during the day.

 More   burglaries occurred in 2016 when compared to the previous year, data with the Pune police has revealed. “Though night-time burglaries still outnumber those happening during the day, their occurrence declined in 2016 when compared to 2015,” it stated. 
 
 As per police, locked houses, lack of security guards, increasing number of working couples and the trend of people travelling during weekends are the primary reasons for the rise in the daytime burglaries.
 
 In 2016, the Pune police registered a 6% rise in the daytime burglaries while those occurring during the night came down by 10%. “Areas like Warje, Erandwane, Deccan, Shivajinagar, Wanowrie, Vishrantwadi, Pimpri, Hinjewadi, Aundh and Baner recorded more daytime burglaries than the old city areas,” the data further revealed. 
 
 Police said the number of daytime burglaries could have been higher since many cases, where two or more apartments were broken into in the same building or at around the same time, were clubbed into one.
 
 In a majority of the cases, the modus of the suspects has been more or less the same. “They would do a recce of the apartments and strike the ones locked especially between 11.30am and 4.30pm. They also used the same tools like katawani or iron rods to commit the crime,” police said.
 
 Suresh Bhosale, assistant commissioner of police (crime), admitted that there has been rise in daytime burglaries. “We have observed that suspects have targeted houses which remain locked with their inmates, both husband and wife, busy attending office during the day. The suspects have also targeted apartments in posh housing societies,” he said.
 
 “It has also been observed that the trend of weekend travel is increasing among citizens. Many houses remain locked during the weekends and burglars make the most out of it,” Bhosale said.
 
 A large number of housing societies, according to the statements registered by police at the crime scenes, have employed security guards or watchmen only for night hours with nobody to guard the property during the day, the officer said.
 
 Also, most societies generally hire untrained and non-professional security guards who do not know how to prevent burglaries and what precautions to take, Bhosale added.
 
