KOLKATA: An otherwise   turned into a nightmare for   earlier this week when his   after being trapped in a roadside railing. He has gradually come to terms with the loss of his arm and now thanks his stars that he is at least alive. But the Howrah resident is still shocked that it took him six hours and a visit to five hospitals to get treatment. The “inhumanity” of the city — an unidentified bystander stole his bag when he lay on the road writhing in pain — has left him traumatized. 

 Singha, who works for Almal Industries Pvt Ltd, was headed to the manufacturing unit’s head-office in Alipore when he met with the accident. He was hanging out of the footboard when his left hand got stuck in the roadside iron railing near Bhawani Bhawan. 
 
 “As I screamed in pain I saw a crowd surrounding me. But none helped me even to sit up or gave me water. Someone from the crowd told me that police had been informed and that they would arrive soon,” Singha recounted.
 
 He managed to sit up, shocked to see his left arm hanging loosely. He kept asking the bystanders to take him to hospital. But with none taking a step forward, he was forced to wait for police, sitting sat in a pool of blood.
 
 Cops arrived in 15 minutes and rushed him to SSKM Hospital. Citing unavailability of surgeons and bed, doctors bandaged the wound. He was moved from one hospital to another — two government and one private — over the next few crucial hours.
 
 Singha was taken to   around 12.30am. By then, precious time had been wasted, which eliminated the possibility of fixing the severed limb through micro-vascular surgery. “If the bones are not crushed and the muscles are properly preserved, the limbs can be fixed. But the surgery has to be done within three-four hours,” said Dr Anumpam Golash, reconstructive surgeon. Doctors at Medica amputated the arm around 4.20am.
 
 “Much time had been lost by the time the patient arrived here. We decided to amputate his left arm to save his life. It will take about seven days to rule out possibility of infection,” said Dr Vikash Kapoor, orthopaedic surgeon at Medica.
 
 Singha, who is the only earning member in the family, is confident of getting over the trauma and resuming office once back from the hospital. “Instead of helping me out, bystanders stole my bag, which had my mobile phone and important official documents. Where has humanity gone?” Singha sighed.
 
