BAREILLY: Ishaq Ahmed, who had denied to TOI last month that he was driving the Audi of Dr Manish Rawat that killed four in Indirapuram on January 28, has sent an application to Bareilly and Ghaziabad SSPs alleging threat to his life. 

 Ahmed claimed that armed goons barged into his house a few days ago and asked him to stop making complaints against the Audi owner and Syed Imtiyaz Qadri from Peer Bohra village in Bareilly, who may have impersonated him in court. 
 
 In his complaint to police, Ahmad said, “Raj Kumar, who is an aide of Dr Manish Rawat, along with around six goons reached my native house in Labhera village on February 26. They pointed a pistol at me and asked me to stop making complaints against Rawat and Qadri or they’ll kill me.”
 
 Bareilly SSP Jogendra Kumar said, “I am yet to receive any complaint. I will take appropriate action only after I receive it.” Raj Kumar, who is a resident of Jogi Nawada locality of Bareilly and the case pursuer of driver “Ishaq Ahmad”, is absconding along with his wife and children. Earlier, sources in Ghaziabad crime branch had told TOI that the case pursuer, who submitted the affidavit on behalf of the Audi driver had “arranged a driver to surrender in the court”, according to initial probe. “Raj Kumar works as a munshi for Bareilly-based advocate Harish Bhatia who fights accident claims related cases. Raj Kumar had managed to get Syed Imtiyaz Qadri to surrender in the court. 
 
 However, Raj Kumar knew Qadri as Ishaq Ahmad and was unaware that he is an imposter,” a source had claimed. Ishaq, whose copy of driving licence was used by Qadri when he surrendered in the court, said, “When I learnt that someone used my driving licence to surrender in the court, I confronted Qadri. He told me that Raj Kumar met him and asked him to appear in the court for Rs 8,000. Qadri was informed that all four passengers of the auto had sustained injuries. 
 
 TOI contacted advocate Harish Bhatia, he said, “I have not heard of this Audi-auto accident. I do not know Raj Kumar, Ishaq Ahmad, Syed Imtiyaz Qadri or Dr Manish Rawat.”
 
 
