CHENNAI:   has a deep connect with India right from his playing days. He was a huge hit during his three years with   and the Aussie legend loves being in this part of the country. 

 He was in Chennai on Tuesday for the promotion of the Tamil Nadu Premier League when TOI caught up with him. During an exclusive interaction, he spoke about the recent developments in Australian cricket, the appointment of   as the new Indian coach and a lot more.
 
 
 
 
 It is regrettable that an 'A' tour has been cancelled because there are very few opportunities for players between domestic and international level. For me - there are two primary stakeholders - one the fan and two the players. Now the fans need to see cricket and the players need to be remunerated appropriately. The administrators are in a position where they are not the only employers any more either. They need to be realistic about protecting their assets and they also need to attract players to the sport. I can't see why they are at loggerheads and it needs to be sorted out soon.
 
 
 I don't know the inner workings of Indian cricket but what I can tell you is that Ravi Shastri will make a fantastic coach after being a great director of cricket. He is an astute judge of the game and has always been a cricketer at his core. I have done commentary with him and I know that he is a strong communicator, which is critical for the coach's role. He can be the go-to man in different situations and he understands that when there is a crisis, it has to be addressed. He will also be backed up by the team and I am sure Ravi will be a great replacement for  
 
 
 The answer is not simple because the coach is also an appointed role. That's why I am not sure if a coach should have complete autonomy about choosing his entire support-staff - there should be a panel of individuals which includes the captain - who makes the decision. The reality is no one is going to 100 per cent agree. But yes, the coach should have a major say but I cannot put a percentage on how much. I know when   came in as the Australian coach, he was very much like that about appointments, but gradually I have seen that has eroded.
 
 
 Is it? For me, there's no debate that he is the man for the future. I have always been a fan of his forthright nature - he embodies the spirit of the new wave of players who have come up in this country. On big days, I know Kohli is the man who would stand up - his performances, his leadership ability, his understanding of the game - everything make him the man to bank on.
 
 
 The life of a cricketer is like a glass full of water and coins are being dropped into it. Then comes a moment when the water spills at the drop of one more coin - Gilchrist's was like that. If MS feels that moment has come, I think he will go. I still see him as a player who can change games and he is not the one who will hang around when he believes it's done.
 
 
 It's rubbish - it's the strategy of the batsman that is more empowering than the bat. If you want to bring more balance, don't make the grounds small. There is almost a 10-metre gap between the outfield finishing and the actual size of the ground - which is ridiculous. If the grounds are bigger, there is always a greater chance of getting caught at the deep and that would make the batsman think.
 
