NEW DELHI: There was an even higher number of curious parents on the second   at North Campus on Tuesday. While most had their queries addressed, others toured the colleges with their wards. 

 Many parents and students were unsure of the availability of courses and were confused as to how to calculate the best-of-four scores while registering for courses. Cutoffs, of course, was the biggest worry. 
 
 “I was worried about my daughter’s options becoming limited if she applied for a course and didn’t make the cut. She wants to study the sciences but has applied to humanities courses as well just in case she doesn’t make it to the college of her choice,” said Anjali Jha who came with her ward. 
 
 Most parents admitted that   is the foremost choice due to its brand value.
 
 Pallavi Handa accompanied her mother to the Open Day, but left soon after when she came to know that she couldn’t study Bachelor of Fine Arts. “We came here because my daughter wanted to study in   and many of our family members have also studied here,” said Ritu Handa. 
 
 Mother-daughter duo Rosemary and Alisha Wilson said they had certain queries about the admission procedure in minority institutions. “Jesus & Mary and St Stephen’s are excellent colleges and I would love to get my daughter admitted there. She wants to do BA honours course, and going by the placement record of those colleges, I need not be worried about her future,” Rosemary said. 
 
 Sanjay Madan, a businessman from Muzaffarnagar, UP, came with his daughter Dipanshi. They wanted to know if Dipanshi could study English honours. Madan said there were fewer opportunities in UP and hoped his daughter would make it to a prestigious college. 
 
 Geetika Sharma, an alumna of Miranda House, took her daughter around her college with the hope that she, too, would get admission in the same college. 
 
 But not all were quite sure about the quality of education in DU. Mohita Bajpai, an aspirant, said she had heard bad things about the quality of teaching in most DU colleges. She wanted to get into Miranda House, though. 
 
 
