Surat: After many high-flying Surtis shelved their vacation plans due to demonetization in December last year, the residents now have their bags packed to explore places on the edges of the map and beyond.  Popular holiday destinations such as Europe, Spain, Switzerland, Scotland and London are on the top wish-list of the Surti travellers. Tour operators points out that this is one of the best season for them to do business, compared to previous two seasons as the number of holiday travellers has increased by almost 30%.  Tour operators pointed out that Switzerland have not disappeared from the wish lists of the city’s traveller. There has been an increase in the number of people keen on visiting exotic locales such as the archaeological site in Petra in Jordan and the geoglyphs in Peru.  “The summer sojourn for Surtis starts from May 1 to June 20. Thousands of people from elite families are travelling abroad, mainly Europe, which was unexpected. The rush is seen after around three years and travellers are opting for European destinations over USA,” said Anil Gupta a tours and travels operator.  Gupta added, “The rush to European destination is so heavy, that most of the hotel rooms at the tourist destinations are full.” Another travel operator Raju Choksi said, “There is tremendous increase in the number of people going to exotic destinations around the world, mainly Europe. The connectivity from Surat to Delhi and Mumbai and the upcoming flights to Goa, Hyderabad, Patna, Kolkata and Jaipur will be an added advantage.” For 35-year-old, Rashesh Patel, a diamantaire, his first international tour had to be special. “I'm travelling alone. Last year, a friend's relative went to Jordan, and listening to her experiences was thrilling. I want to explore a less-travelled place. I have done some research, and know it's an exotic destination in the Middle East, and a safe place. Narayan Gupte, a businessman, who recently returned from Vietnam, was impressed with the progress the country has made despite its troubled past. “I was amazed to see planned roads, wide footpaths, synchronized traffic lights and clean cities. We travelled in Hanoi and explored the night market, which is 50 times bigger than the Commercial Street. We also visited Ho Chi Minh City and Ha Long Bay where the movie King Kong was shot,” he told TOI.