RANCHI: The   (MCI) has observed that the private diagnostic clinic running under public-private partnership ( ) at the   (Rims) is affecting the academic curriculum of post-graduate biochemistry students. 

 The apex medical body's   after a recent inspection of the hospital has objected to "certain biochemical investigations that have been outsourced on PPP mode."
 
 The inspection report which was received by Rims management on Monday, has stated that outsourcing of biochemical investigations have reduced the investigative workload of the hospital laboratories. 
 
 Inferring that the hospital's biochemistry department does not have adequate equipment alongside the "inadequate investigative workload," the MCI overruled the Rims' application for increasing the PG biochemistry seats from three to five. 
 
 The investigative workload which translates to case studies or practical classes in common parlance, is mandatory for PG students as per their curriculum. 
 
 The private clinic operates under   government's 2015 move to provide good quality pathological and radiological services under PPP mode. The diagnostic chain, Medall, is operational for over a year.
 
 When contacted Rims director Dr. BK Sherwal stated that the observation on "outsourcing" was that of individual inspectors. "Our investigative burden is more than adequate. In fact, the MCI guidelines do not clearly define the exact number of investigation required for curriculum," Sherwal said. "However, we are sending a compliance report to the MCI within a few days," the director added.
 
 Rims sources said a two member inspection team visited the biochemistry department thrice in 2016 and took stock of the diagnostic services at the private laboratory. 
 
 The hospital administration bore brunt of the MCI which expressed its dissatisfaction over the lack of faculty members in the department and the absence of state of the art equipment. Earlier in 2015, the private laboratory was under the firing line after it had wrongly diagnosed a patient as HIV positive. 
 
 
