When  , the heroine of  , one of the country's oldest epics, was taken away by the villain-king Ravan and held hostage in Sri Lanka, she showed signs of severe  , said Dr Sudha Seshayyan, director of anatomy at the Madras Medical College.

 Surrounded by rakshasas, the imprisoned queen stopped eating and sobbed all day. She drowned herself in the guilt of forcing her husband, Ram, to go in search of a golden deer, and for insulting and disobeying Lakshman. At one point she even contemplated suicide by trying to hanging herself,   said at an event on depression organised by  .
 
 She did not end her life because she had a counsellor - Hanuman. “He jumped in front of her when she tried to hang herself, spoke to her, motivated her and encouraged her to speak,“ Dr Seshayyan said during a talk on `What mythology tells us about depression.' In most mythologies, although many famous characters suffer from depression or show traits of it, most of them are seen to be rescued by someone who speaks to them.
 
 Like Hanuman for Sita, there was Lakshman for Ram, Krishna for Arjun, and Vidura for Dritharastra. “It is that talking and counselling that authors have elaborated more than the illness itself. These heroes and heroines did not fail because they had someone to speak to,“ she said.
 
 Her talk was followed by panel discussion on depression in cinema. “Most people misunderstand mental illness like schizophrenia or bi-polar disorder as depression. But when they are diagnosed with depression, they refuse to accept it as a mental health problem. We see a reflection of this in movies as well,“ said psychiatrist Dr R Mangala.
 
 In Tamil films, the mentally ill are almost always violent, kill or maim innocent victims --the savage deeds often committed during innocuous events such as a full moon. Among Indian filmamkers, Bengali directors were sensitive in their portrayal of mental illness, said history enthusiast V Sriram. “Many Hollywood movies are close to reality because there is lesser stigma,“ he said.
 
 A few movies like Guru Dutt's 
  (1959) was a box office disaster before being raised to cult classic status. “The movie portrays the emotions and feelings of a depressed director, whose fall from fame is steep,“ he said.
 
 Actor Akshara Gowda of 'Kathi' fame spoke about how she fought depression after being in denial for more than 18 months.Cardiologist Dr Chockalingam spoke about the need to be happy to stay healthy.
 
 
