CHANDIGARH: Paving the way for   at military installations in Punjab, the state’s high court has suspended, for 4 months, a   (NGT) order that puts a blanket ban on axing of trees.

 With this, the ministry of defence would be able to carry out strategically important projects at military stations in Patiala, Sangrur, Jalandhar, Khasa, Ferozepur, Tibri (Gurdaspur), and Kapurthala.
 
 The NGT had passed the that put a blanket ban on   on May 19, 2016. “The blanket ban on felling of trees passed by NGT is not to be allowed to adversely affect the ongoing works of the military stations at Patiala and Sangrur as these are defence projects. It would be just and proper to suspend the impugned order for a period of four months to enable the petitioners to execute the ongoing projects,” observed the division bench headed by Justice S S Saron in its March 1 order.
 
 The court, however, made it clear that the defence authorities were liable to approach NGT within a period of four months for further directions regarding the measures to be adopted for maintaining the green cover in respect of the trees that are to be cut.
 
 HC has passed these orders while disposing of a petition filed by the secretary, ministry of defence (MoD), and Colonel Q (Wks-1), Western Command, Chandimandir. The defence authorities had argued that the projects involved substantial amount of expenditure that is to be incurred and is stated to have been sanctioned. The numbers of trees to be felled, or cut, were 131 at Patiala and 86 at Sangrur.
 
 The petitioners had contended that the NGT had passed its order without ascertaining its implications, saying that the projects were time bound. They said if the axing of trees was not cleared the projects would get scrapped and the complete exercise would have to be taken up again, and this would escalate costs by a “ballpark figure” of 10% increase every year. They said the total value of these projects was estimated at Rs 110.96 crore and a delay would lead to a cost increase of Rs 12 crore.
 
 
 
 
 NGT had passed the order putting a blanket ban on felling of trees in Punjab after hearing a petition filed by Dr Amandeep Aggarwal and Peacock Environment and Wild Life Protection Society, Chandigarh, seeking compensatory green cover along the Zirakpur – Bathinda expressway in respect of over 96,000 trees, which it was alleged had been ruthlessly cut for making the said expressway. The order had affected defence projects also and that was why the ministry of defence had moved HC.
 
 
