NAGPUR: This month’s edition of  , an initiative by Prayas Sevankur to bring unsung heroes of society into limelight, featured social reformer Dr  . He was interviewed by Dr Avinash Saoji, at Chitnavis Centre on Sunday morning. Gogulwar spoke on a variety of issues such as his involvement in protests and agitations, preventive social medicine and organic farming.

 Talking of his roots, Gogulwar spoke of having born in Sangli but living in Chandrapur owing to his father’s agriculture business. “Since childhood, I wanted to do something different from routine. I used to bring friends from other castes home for food, something that was seen as a taboo. I had joined   and believed that serving humanity is serving god,” he says.
 
 It is a common belief that if we dedicate our time to a cause, our studies will be affected, said Saoji. “However, it only increases our concentration and doesn’t lessen one’s marks,” he added. Gogulwar recalled his family expecting him to be a doctor and him joining Jayprakash Narayan for ‘sampurna Kranti Andolan’ in the early seventies as part of the student agitation against corruption. The protest started in Gujarat and spread to Bihar. This was instrumental in affecting the government, and soon the Emergency was declared. Many of my friends were in jail for 18 months,” he said. Gogulwar expressed his desire to meet Narayan which wasn’t fulfilled due to the leader’s death in Bihar.
 
 He then explained the Naxalite scene in Gadchiroli, which he said was limited to south Gadchiroli during his time. He, along with friend Mohan Hirabai Hiralal fought for the right to recall the representative and right to work. “Employment, ‘save human save forest’ and ‘daaru mukti’ were the core issues of the movement in Gadchiroli. 
 
 Gogulwar earned honours from his college in Preventive Social Medicine, and started working for the health of villagers in Wardha. He later married like-minded Subhada Deshmukh, with whom he founded ‘Amhi Amchya Aarogysathi’ in 1984. “We go to the doctor if we don’t feel well. But 90 per cent of our health depends on the way we live,” he said. He also commented that the government budget for preventive medicine was too less. “In the forest, everything is organic, nutritious and pure but adivasis and others are becoming separated from it. The making of natural medicines was passed on according to the guru-shishya tradition,” he said. 
 
