Gandhinagar: In a relief to Gujart BJP president Jitu Vaghani, a Mumbai court on Thursday cancelled the arrest warrant issued against him. Vaghani appeared before the court and presented surety of Rs 10,000 and also paid Rs 15,000 per case (total Rs 30,000) to be submitted in the next two weeks. Vaghani will again have to be present in the same court on May 2. Vaghani, the youngest Gujarat BJP president ever, had to face lot of embarrassment in the case.

 
 Metropolitan magistrate, 58th court at Bandra in Mumbai, had issued the non-bailable warrant against Vaghani and his business partners in a case in which a cheque of Rs 19 lakh was not honoured because of insufficient balance in the bank account. An arrest warrant was issued twice against Vaghani and his partners, Bharat Patel and Sandip Prabhudasporia, of the Eva group of companies.
 
 The Eva group had entered into an agreement with Owaisi Shakir Nuri, director, Novelty Power & Infratech, for purchase and sale of a property worth around Rs 10 crore. Transaction of Rs 3 crore was made under the deal but the two firms called it off in 2010-11.
 
 Vaghani’s firm, as part of the settlement of the cancelled deal, was supposed to make a final payment of Rs 19 lakh for which a post-dated cheque was issued. This was not honoured due to insufficient balance. Hence, Owaisi filed a court case against Vaghani, his partners and firm, to recover Rs 19 lakh.
 
 Producing the cancellation papers before journalists, BJP spokesperson Bharat Pandya said that the court had cancelled the warrant against Vaghani.
 
 “The complainant had misled the court by hiding the facts of the matter,” Pandya claimed. “The complainant hid the fact that the firm in which Jitubhai is just a partner had paid the remaining Rs 19 lakh through RTGS transaction.”
 
 Pandya further said that Vaghani is not involved in the day-to-day activity of the firm and the bounced cheque was not issued by him. “The Congress has nothing concrete against him and is merely trying to fabricate allegations with the help of such complainants,” Pandya alleged.
 
 
