Chennai: Even as foreign institutional investors (FIIs) are pulling money out of stock markets, offshore funds have also become less enthusiastic about India as an investment destination. India-focussed offshore funds and ETFs (exchange traded funds) received net inflows of just $140 million in August, the lowest for a month in 2017.

 While India-focussed offshore funds received net inflows of $179 million in August, the lowest so far in 2017, India-focussed offshore ETFs witnessed net outflows of $39 million, the highest in a month for the year, data compiled by Morningstar Investment Adviser India showed. FIIs have pulled out $2.8 billion from the stock markets since August bringing down their overall net investments in equities to $6.2 billion so far in 2017. “The category (offshore funds) is under stress. The good part is, though in lesser quantum, the money is still flowing in and that too in India-focussed offshore funds which are more long-term in nature than ETFs, which are short-term in nature,” said Himanshu Srivastava, senior research analyst, Morningstar Investment Adviser India. China is the most preferred country among Asia, Asia-Pacific and ‘Emerging Markets’ funds. On an average, China accounted for 27% in the portfolios of ‘Asia/Asia Pacific Funds’ and 23% in the portfolio of ‘Emerging Markets’ funds. South Korea came second in the Asia/Asia Pacific category with 12% allocation and India stood third with 11% allocation.
 
 Financial services, consumer cyclicals and basic materials are the top-three sectors in the portfolios of India-focussed funs. “Over the last one year or even on a year-to-date basis, the exposure to these sectors have gone up. Clearly, their focus is on up-tick in economic activity and urban consumption demand,” Srivastava said.
 
 Pharma and technology are the sectors where offshore funds have cut exposure by over 2% so far this year. This is largely due to the headwinds that these sectors are facing on the global front. “In fact, their (offshore funds) investment pattern in sector allocation terms is not very different from domestic fund managers,” he said.
 
 “Geopolitical risk is the major factor that may have adverse impact on foreign flows. If the tension between the US and North Korea continues or aggravates, it will increase the geopolitical risk and in that condition, we may expect this trend (poor inflows) to continue,” Srivastava stated.
 
 
 
