A year ago, SP Soni, 41, went from driving a private taxi in Dwarka in Delhi to signing up on cab aggregator Ola’s platform. Flush with incentives from  , his   skyrocketed to as much as Rs 85,000 a month as he zipped around the national capital region, rushing to meet his quota of rides.
 
  While those heady days allowed the likes of Soni to make a killing, the good times came to an abrupt end earlier this year when incentives were lowered and drivers — used to a comfortable cushion of sops — found themselves staring at drastically reduced earnings.
  
 Soni, the sole breadwinner for a family of six, has driven into uncharted territory. He has defaulted on three successive payments on his car and emptied out his savings trying to make ends meet. "It’s hard to fight against Ola and  . But I take inspiration from Gandhi who defeated the mighty Britishers," he says.
 
 Having gotten used to earning as much as a lakh of rupees monthly (and splurging on the back of this increased income), drivers across the country are considering a new, tough reality.
  
  Gagan Yadav, 32, curses himself for being too ambitious and splurging on a new car last year. "Badi galti kar di (made a big mistake)," he rues. "Garibon ko kabhi bada nahin sochna chahiye (poor people should never think big)."
  
  While his income has tumbled from Rs 90,000 to Rs 20,000 a month, he has to continue to pay Rs 600 a day for his car. "I don’t know how I will manage my family," he says in a choked voice, as his two-year-old son tries to attract his attention in their two-room rented apartment in Dwarka. "I put in 16-17 hours every day but am not able to earn even Rs 2,000 now."
  
  
 
  Stung by this steep decline in their fortunes, drivers such as Soni and Yadav had been part of a strike that began on February 10 in Jantar Mantar in Delhi, attracting some 5,000 drivers initially; union members claimed all 1.5 lakh drivers showed up in support.
  
  Drivers and union leaders claim that aggregators pushed cabs they helped finance, prioritising bookings ahead of those who purchased cars externally.
  
  The aggregators suddenly stopped incentives to the drivers in an attempt to stem their ballooning losses. It was not only the number of rides or hours logged in by the drivers that made them earn close to a lakh till a few months back. It was hefty incentives — at times four times the amount earned by the drivers — which got them hooked to the cab aggregators.
  
  "As our business has grown over three years in India, we are seeing sustainable earning opportunities for driver partners… With a 60 per cent year-on-year increase in driver signups in January 2017," Amit Jain, president of Uber India, said in a blog post on March 3, 24 days after protests kicked off in Delhi.
  
  Over the past couple of years, both Ola and Uber have been in a rush to expand their business in India. They have aggressively poached drivers from other allied areas (radio cab providers, private taxi fleets, private drivers even mechanics) and beyond (students, young graduates, electricians and more) to grow their platform.
  
  Currently, Ola claims to cover 102 cities on its platform, with 5,00,000 vehicles and 5,50,000 drivers and Uber is present in 29 cities with 4,00,000 cars. It doesn't disclose the number of drivers it has signed up.
  
  Both aggregators have lined up ambitious expansion plans (see The Aggregators' Roadmap) as they look to unseat legacy transport options (buses, autos and kaali-peeli cabs in cities like Mumbai) in their race to disrupt urban transport.
  
  Keeping the funnel of drivers flowing, then, is critical to the success of these aggregators in India. Because Uber is a two-sided market, we need to balance the needs of riders and drivers. Uber rolls outs incentives and promotions to introduce the service in new cities, Uber's Jain said in the blog post of March 3.
  
  Without doing this, it's hard to ensure drivers are compensated for their time when few riders are aware of the service. As more riders use Uber, drivers are busier and can earn more. This, in turn, attracts more drivers, which helps guarantee faster pickups for riders, and allows us to adjust incentives over time. Ola declined to answer emails and text messages seeking comment.
  
  Driver Gagan Yadav is one of the hundreds of taxi drivers in Delhi who dared to dream big when app-based cab aggregators lured all to earn lakhs by turning entrepreneur. I too bought a car on loan, he says, but never realised it would turn out to be a disaster. Once the incentives and other sops were removed, drivers started choking. What was never an issue - aggregators charging as low as Rs 4 to 6 per km from consumers - suddenly became a flashpoint.
  
  
 
  Early operators in this space like Meru Cabs and upstarts like DriveU, a driver aggregator, sniff an opportunity in the standoff. We've had 7,000 new signups from the driver partners of other platforms in the past two months, says Nilesh Sangoi, CEO of Meru Cabs. The entire ecosystem of driver partners is able to see through the impermanence of incentives and are pleading to increase the minimum fares.
  
  Meanwhile, Ashok Shastry, COO of Bengaluru-based DriveU, which has some 1,600 drivers enlisted, says dozens of aggrieved aggregator partners are signing up or are seeking to align with his platform. We provide a more sane work environment and let drivers decide how many hours to work, he says. There's a sense of sanity with their lives.
  
  It isn't as if Delhi's cab aggregator drivers are the only ones affected. Across the country, disquiet has spread among drivers roiled by falling earnings.
  
  While protests have occurred in Bengaluru, Hyderabad and Delhi, Mumbai too has had its fair share, with the next one scheduled for March 21. In Bengaluru, the protests have become quickly politicised, with the JD(S) leader and former CM HD Kumaraswamy joining an increasingly noisy agitation. We want drivers to get a fair deal, says Raju Patil from the Sangharsh Taxi Tourist Taxi Chalak Malak Sangh in Mumbai. We will have thousands of drivers join us for a day to press for our demands.
  
  Drivers in Mumbai too have similar needs.
  
  Besides incentives, the drivers also want aggregators to fork out for health   and help stop harassment from law enforcement over enthusiastic to enforce local transport norms.
  
  In Delhi, protesting drivers say that Uber and Ola need to charge customers more. They must charge Rs 16 for every km of ride, says Ravi Rathore, vice-president of Sarvodaya Driver Association of Delhi, which claims to represent over two lakh drivers in Delhi-NCR. Rathore blasts the cab aggregators for exploiting drivers, with their very survival at risk, he dramatically claims.
  
  Meru's chief Sangoi agrees that unviable rates have wrecked the odds of profits in this space, especially for drivers. We don't want to sell below cost price¡K we don't provide unviable incentives and our goal is to be equitable for the consumer, driver and the company, he contends. While Meru has around 20,000 cabs on the roads, he hopes this driver-aggregator conflict will give the radio taxi operator a fresh lease of life.
  
  On the road, there seem few options available to drivers. In Delhi, the protests have fizzled out as pragmatism has trumped idealism for drivers. Some 70 per cent of drivers are back on the roads in the NCR and aggregators have shown little interest in engaging with unions. The courts too have decided not to interfere. A rude jolt was in store for Rathore, the Delhi taxi union rep in the High Court. You cannot go on fighting, as you do with the government. You will have to resolve and end this agitation as it will not get you anything, observed Justice Rajiv Sahai Endlaw earlier this week.
  
  Saddled with car loans and slimmer earnings, drivers now find themselves down a dark stretch with few signs of escape.
  
  Two drivers reportedly attempted suicide outside the Ola headquarters in Bengaluru and many others are getting increasingly desperate.
  
  Rajesh Pachore was on strike for 12 days. Going on strike was a Catch-22 situation for the driver from Rohini in north-west Delhi.
  
  Compelled to restart working to pay his 13-year-old daughter's school fees, his gloomy forecast typifies the challenges his peers face. Driving is the only skill I know, he laments. If I drive, I will struggle. But if we don't drive, I will die.
