MUMBAI: While the   finally announced the name of India's new coach late on Tuesday, it also added that former India pacer   has been appointed as the team's bowling consultant and former batting legend   as the new overseas batting consultant. The Board has ratified the decision which came by way of a recommendation from the three-member Cricket Advisory Committee ( ) comprising Sachin Tendulkar,   and VVS Laxman.

 
 
 
 
 The question that could be potentially raised here is if it was the CAC's remit in the first place to pick the support staff. The Committee of Advisors ( ) had categorically asked the BCCI to invite applications for the role of the chief coach and the CAC would go through the applications and shortlist the candidate. There was no mention, whatsoever, about hiring of new support staff members.
 
 It is now to be waited and seen if the CoA will raise an objection to this development. Dravid, for the record, was recently appointed the national coach of India's junior teams for the next two years.
 
 
 
 
 
 It can be argued that the CAC hasn't been fair on   in forcing a support staff on him. He could've zeroed in on candidates after consulting team members, particularly  . Be it Greg Chappell or Gary Kirsten or Duncan Fletcher, all coaches for India's senior men's team appointed by the Indian cricket board over the last 12 years have preferred working with a support staff of their choice.
 
 Chappell preferred to work with Ian Frazer, Kirsten partnered with Paddy Upton and brought in Eric Simons. Duncan Fletcher introduced Trevor Penny as India's fielding coach some years ago.
 
 However, there were no objections whatsoever to Zaheer's name being recommended, given the kind of experience he brings to the table. As far as Dravid is concerned, his involvement will help the Indian team immensely as Kohli and his boys get ready for some arduous tours of South Africa, England and Australia in the next two years, followed by the 2019 ICC World Cup.
 
 
