NASHIK: Agriculture power consumers in the state are in for a shocker. 

 The absence of any additional government subsidy to   and the revised tariff Multi-Year-Tariff (MYT) programme will lead to an average 100% rise in the electricity charges, effective from April 1 this year. The Maharashtra Energy Regulatory Commission has adopted the MYT programme, under which, the electricity rates will now be revised on April 1 every year. 
 
 A commercial circular of the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) of April 4 said the agriculture consumers will now be charged bill as per the revised tariff by state energy regulator. The government has not committed any additional subsidy, which it had done during the past one year, owing to the bad weather and drought. 
 
 The government will, however, continue to offer the standard subsidy to the metered consumers. This subsidy ranges between Rs 1.73 to Rs 2.16 per unit for the metered agriculture consumers. The government does not offer any subsidy to the   
 
 “While the government direct subsidy still continues, the revised tariff will now be applicable to the agriculture consumers without any additional concessions. This will inflate the energy bills by about 100% on an average,”   of Maharashtra Veej Grahak Sanghatana said. 
 
 The revised tariff will be reflected in the bill that will be generated at the end of June 2017, a senior officer from Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) said.
 
 Hogade said the absence of additional subsidy from the government will badly hit the agriculture consumers as the tariff for 3 Horse Power metered connection will go up from Rs 0.55 to Rs 1.01 per unit and that for lift irrigation system will go up from Rs 0.72 per unit to Rs 1.97 per unit.
 
 “The government has failed to provide any relief to farmers in terms of loan waiver and minimum support price. It should have at least announced additional subsidy like it did last year to give some relief to the farmers,” Hogade added.
 
 Farmers have condemned the steep rise in power tariff. “We have not received any information from the government or from the MSEDCL as of now. But if the power tariff is going to rise by this margin, it will be another burden on us. Farmers are already struggling to find markets for their produce,”  , a farmer from   area said.
 
