NAGPUR: For first-time voters it was an experience to cherish. Youth and even those in their 30s who cast the ballot for the first time ever said the 4-ward system gave them a feeling of voting in ‘four’ elections. 

 Shahnawaz Sheikh (23) who voted at the Pension Nagar Urdu School booth said, “This is my biggest step towards becoming more responsible. I feel proud as a citizen and satisfied to discharge my duty. The first experience was good as I had no inconvenience finding my polling booth.” Akansha Sharma who cast her vote at the   booth said, “I got my voting card yesterday itself and consider myself lucky that I found my name in the list quickly, considering so many people are facing problems.” Nagma Sheikh (22) cast her vote at   booth said her ballot is like a ‘vote of confidence’ for the candidates. Sheikh said, “My vote is a gesture of appreciation for the leaders already working in our area. There is significant development happening and I feel our votes will boost it. I was both nervous and excited before voting first time.”
 
 Saloni Jaiswal turned 18 just last month and feels she’s already achieved another major milestone in life. “Luckily I got to vote immediately after becoming eligible and it was quite a thrilling experience. As a responsible citizen one should vote, its our duty. I can question the government and system only if I do my duty. Hope the next government gives us better infrastructure, opportunities and safe environment to live in,” she said. 
 
 But for the first timers there were some hiccups as well. Rakesh Dhara (19) who cast his vote at New English School booth said. “Since we had to cast four votes I got a bit confused and pressed only three buttons. The officials present there called me back to cast the last one,” he said. Nikita Salunke, (20), who cast her vote at   said, “I was very excited as well as curious before I went for voting but I wasn’t sure about how to cast my vote but when I went in there it all went fine.” Others however came fully prepared. Aditi Rajbhog (19) who cast her vote at Ram Mandir Gully booth said, “I had seen a demonstration about voting so it was really easy and fast for me to vote.” Riza Siddique, who cast his vote at   said, “Since I am a first time voter I had some apprehensions that I might face some problems but the overall experience was good. It was a good thing that NMC created a lot of polling booths. Because of this, queues became small and voting was fast.”
 
