Mumbai: State Bank of India has shortlisted three companies —  ,   and   — for its joint venture (JV) partner in the merchant-acquiring business. The bank proposes to transfer its business of deploying credit card swipe machines to a new entity that will be a JV with a payment company.

 “Based on the expression of interest we had shortlisted five companies and we sought non-binding commercial bids. Three of them have submitted non-binding bids. These three will be provided access to the data room and our books,” said Manju Agarwal, deputy MD, for corporate strategy and new business.
 
  will simultaneously discuss with the candidates the terms of the definitive agreement. 
 
 Based on a consensus on the definitive agreement, the bank will obtain binding bids from applicant and go with the highest bidder.
 
 Hitachi, which is global hardware provider, has a major presence in the payments business in India following its acquisition of Prizm Payments which has been renamed Hitachi Payment Services. Worldline (formerly Atos) gained a major footprint in India after it bought Venture Infotek a merchant acquiring and card processing company. First Data Corporation owns a large part of the card swipe network after it acquired a majority stake in ICICI Bank’s merchant acquiring business.
 
 SBI is the largest deployer of credit card swipe machines in the country with 6.26 lakh machines as on August 2017. Bulks of the machines were installed after demonetization in November 2016. According to Agarwal one of the main impediments was the cost of hardware. “If the machines are made in India we could be see a substantial reduction in costs,” said Agarwal.
 
 According to Agarwal, cards are still the most efficient way for promoting cashless transactions given that there was a base of close to 80 crore debit cards in India. “When it comes to cards, people are already familiar with using them and there is no learning curve and there are no security concerns,” said Agarwal.
 
 According to Agarwal, BharatQR are not as simple an alternative as made out to be. BharatQR is a smartphone-based payments system where payment cards are virtualized in an app and payment transaction is completed by scanning a QR code. “Deploying BharatQR is as complicated as deploying a point of sale machine. Documentation and activation takes up to one week. While it does away with the need for a PoS machine, it requires that all customers do have smartphones,” said Agarwal.
 
 There are 28.82 lakh card swipe machines in the country. In August these machines saw 26.54 crore debit card transactions and 11.53 crore payments using credit cards. 
 
 Worldline acquires MRL Posnet: Worldline has entered into a definitive agreement in India to acquire 100% share capital of MRL Posnet, a tech-led, integrated merchant acquiring solutions provider. Founded in 2008 and headquartered in Chennai, India,   has 100,000 payment terminals and processes Rs 8,700 crore worth of transactions annualised. 
 
 
