IMPHAL: With six former Congress MLAs facing the possibility of being charged under anti-defection law for switching over to BJP, the saffron party is confident of retaining the seats the MLAs hold should byelections be ordered. 

 "They (the six former Congress MLAs) have become family. It would be the sole responsibility of BJP to support them to retain their seats if byelection is ordered under the anti-defection law," N Biren Singh told TOI in an interview at his office-cum-bungalow on Sunday.
 
 Congress, which had started out with 28 seats in the 60-member House, has ended up with 22 now. BJP, on the other hand, won 21 seats in the election but now holds 28 seats in a swift reversal. The BJP-led coalition which rules the state now has 38 MLAs, including four each from   and National People's Party, the lone winner from Lok Janshakti Party and an Independent MLA.
 
 While Shyamkumar Singh jumped ship after the election, Ginsuanhau joined the saffron party two weeks ago. On Friday, four more senior Congress MLAs - S Bira Singh, Oinam Lukhoi, Y Surchandra Singha and Ngamthang Haokip - switched over to BJP. The lone Trinamool Congress legislator Tongram Robindro Singh merged with BJP on the same day.
 
 The chief minister said people's support will be the deciding factor in case of a bypoll. "They all joined BJP after consulting the people in their constituencies. Voters are in favour of the MLAs as well as the party. So they are not afraid of byelection. They strongly believe they will retain their seats. Besides, BJP has been continuing its winning streak not only in Manipur but also other states across the country," he added.
 
 When asked why the Congress MLAs joined BJP, Biren said it is because they want to serve the people. "The present government is a people's government. So, more people are coming to us. They are ready to support the government. How I can ignore it if someone is ready to join BJP and the present government?" the chief minister said, adding that not one leader drove a bargain for their entry into the saffron party.
 
