GURUGRAM: There is a certain fascination for advertising  . Children, especially, tend to pick them up quickly, and recite them with exasperating enthusiasm.

 Those of us who grew up in the 1980s and 1990s can recall those earworms. Who, growing up, did not sing along to the great Kamlesh Pandey’s iconic jingle, ‘Colgate ka chhota packet/Kholo dabao, brush pe lagao/Colgate ka chhota packet’?
 
 Who doesn’t remember Nirma’s iconic, ‘Washing powder Nirma’ jingle? In simple, everyday language, it informed us, the consumers, about the brand name and category (apparently, the word Nirma appears no less than 11 times in the jingle). Next, it educated us about the benefits of using Nirma, viz. ‘Doodh si safedi’ (and the fact that ‘rangeen kapda bhi khil-khil jaaye’). It gave us an insight into the value of the product with the line, ‘Thoda sa powder par jhaag dher saara’. And finally, it told us that Hema, Rekha, Jaya and Sushma were already using the product to their great satisfaction, thus reassuring us about its quality.
 
 Another unforgettable from that era was, ‘Vicks ki goli lo, khich-khich door karo’. Notice the genius of the writer in using the seemingly nonsensical but extremely easy to understand phrase ‘Khich-khich’. While you won’t find it in any dictionary, you know exactly what it means in the context in which it has been used.
 
 Then there was the ‘Doodh doodh doodh, piyo glassful doodh’ jingle created for   Milk and Operation Flood. After decades, it still sounds modern, and is still as exceptionally catchy. Watch it on YouTube and it will be a week before you get its Hinglish lyrics and immensely ‘sticky’ tune out of your head.
 
 Walk up to anyone who grew up in that era and ask them to hum the soundtrack to a visual of a young girl dancing on a cricket field. And in a heartbeat they will begin to sing ‘Kuchch khaas hai zindagi mein’. Such was the power of that Cadbury’s ad (penned by the mighty Piyush Pandey).
 
 One is often asked how copywriters think up of these jingles. And what rules (if any) they follow in writing them. Allow me to attempt an explanation using one of the most memorable jingles ever in Indian advertising, the famous ‘Jab main chhota ladka tha’ song for Bajaj.
 
 Unless you are a Gulzar, the only rule you follow when writing a jingle is simplicity. In an ad, we do not have the luxury of time to get into the lyricism of the ‘woh kaagaz ki kashti, woh baarish ka paani’ type. There has to be a balance between hardsell of the product and entertainment to sugarcoat the sales message. The line ‘jab main chhota ladka tha, badi sharaarat karta tha’ cannot be put more simply. Yet it rings true, and also describes the action on screen.
 
 I was not able to find the long take of this ad on YouTube but the second stanza of the jingle is imprinted on my mind, even though I must have heard it last 25 years ago. ‘Kya rangeen jawaani thi/Ek raja tha ek rani thi/Raja rani pakde jaate jab roshan hota Bajaj’. How succinctly the writer has managed to encapsulate the very essence of youth and romance — all in 30 words and with no word longer than three syllables. 
 
 ‘Ab main bilkul boodha hoon / Goli kha ke jeeta hoon / Lekin aaj bhi ghar ke andar roshni deta Bajaj’. You have to be an untutored novice or a brilliant writer with complete command of his craft to write ‘Goli kha ke jeeta hoon’ to describe old age. That kind of brutal simplicity is very, very difficult to achieve otherwise. (Author is executive creative director,  ) 
 
