New Delhi/Noida: A   working with a leading media house tweeted about a   incident during her   on Tuesday night. She boarded the cab from Sector 21 in Noida at 10.55pm and soon realised that the driver was drunk.

 About five minutes into the ride, the cabbie stopped the car, saying he had run out of fuel and would ask his brother to get it. Sensing something amiss, the woman tweeted to Uber, but complained of a lax response.
 
 In the mean time, the driver called up his ‘brother’ and asked him to get fuel from a petrol pump. The driver also told him that he had an “aurat” in the car, the passenger tweeted. 
 
 At this point, the woman called up a friend who said he would pick her up. The driver overheard the conversation and asked the woman if somebody was coming to pick her up. When she answered in the affirmative, the driver locked the doors and switched on the lights. He also made five more calls to at least two different people, she tweeted.
 
 Meanwhile, a UP Police patrol van passed by but didn’t stop to find out why a car was standing in the middle of the road at that hour, she claimed.
 
 After 10 minutes, her friend reached spot. “The driver gives both of us a death stare. I cancel the trip after asking him to end it falls on deaf ears (sic),” she tweeted. “I’m numb from the experience. Shudder to think what could have happened had my friend not reached there before the @Uber driver’s friends.” She, however, refused to talk to TOI about the incident.
 
 The incident has once again brought forward the concerns regarding the safety of women passengers taking Uber. Company officials said they had responded as soon as they could have. 
 
 The social media team got in touch with her through an email as internal guidelines restrict them from calling passengers late at night, insdiers said.
 
  said they had an in-app SOS button that connects to the nearest police station and all passengers were advised to use this option in an emergency situation. “This is a regrettable and concerning incident. We are internally reviewing the matter and the driver has been barred from accessing the app,” said an spokesperson. The company was continuously working to educate drivers as well as customers on how to make rides safer, he added. 
 
 The cab aggregator, however, still does not have any plan to introduce a customer care number even for emergency situations. Ola offers such a facility.
 
