GURGAON: Around 700   of   had a  , after the carrier failed to communicate to its   two days in a row that its flights had been cancelled after heavy snowfall stopped all operations at   

 According to customers who had early morning flights scheduled on January 7 and 8, there were no officials from the airlines at the airport, and it was through CISF personnel that they found out their flights had been cancelled.
 
 "We found out about the cancellation only after reaching the airport at around 4am on January 7. There was no email, SMS or phone call from the airlines," said Divya Basu, a passenger travelling to attend college in Atlanta, USA, on Turkish Airlines. She added when her father managed to get in touch with airline officials, they asked her to go to the airline headquarters on MG Road in Gurgaon. 
 
 "When we reached the office at around 9am, it was locked with no sign of the officials," said Basu.
 
 There were hundreds like her, who were left confused and irritated. Ajay Yadav, who was travelling to Ghana, had an early morning flight on January 8. After he had found out the flight had been cancelled, he reached the office at 6am for further instructions. He waited for seven hours before he could speak to the officials.
 
 "I've been waiting for hours now. I hope to get a ticket on another airline," said Yadav.
 
 Most passengers TOI spoke to at the Turkish Airlines office in Gurgaon were harried, tired and sleepy, with some who hadn't slept for 18 hours at a stretch. All of them will have lost a couple of days before they find another flight, and will miss important meetings and classes. 
 
 "I had a flight to San Francisco at 6.55am and have been up since last night. I was the only one to receive an email from the airline at 8pm the day before. When we reached the airport, an agency representing the airline asked us to visit the airlines' Gurgaon office. I have been running around for almost 18 hours without sleep now," said Utkarsh Pandey.
 
 It was only after passengers made a lot of hue and cry that airlines' officials came down at 1pm on Sunday to help the passengers with tickets in alternative flights. Turkish Airlines officials declined to comment, directing queries to an agency that handles its India operations. Theylater accepted there was miscommunication and that flyers were not required to visit the Gurgaon office, and added they did not have contacts of customers who booked through portals, but had, by Sunday, managed to fetch them and started calling them. 
 
 
