SHIMLA: Protests over the Shimla district gang rape and murder continue throughout   with people demanding justice for the minor and a strict punishment for the perpetrators. Agitated people blocked the traffic at Gumma in Shimla district while a procession was taken out from deputy commissioner’s office to   in Shimla. Protest demonstrations were also held in Nahan and Bilaspur.

 A student of Class 10th, had gone missing on July 4 and her naked body was found dumped in the forest area on July 6. Initially, photographs of some local people had gone viral on Facebok and WhatsApp, claiming that they were suspects but later when the Special Investigation Team (SIT) made the arrests, the accused included two persons from Nepal, two from Uttrakhand, one from Mandi and one from Shimla.
 
 Despite rain and shower, a large number of people from Kotkhai, Balsan, Theog, Deha and other areas gathered at Gumma and blocked Theog-Hatkoti road and raised slogans against the state government. Senior BJP leader and former horticulture minister Narender Bragta and Chopal MLA Balbir Verma were among the protestors.
 
 Bragta said there is a widespread resentment among people against the police investigation. He said people believe that real culprits were let off and people from Uttrakhand and Nepal were arrested for eyewash.
 
 Meanwhile, Shimla Nagrik Sabha organized another protest march from the deputy commissioner’s office to the Rajbhawan in Shimla. The protest was joined by local school and college students. Raising slogans against the state government, protestors reached Rajbhawan through the Mall road.
 
 The Sabha president Vijender Mehra said a memorandum has been submitted to governor Acharya Devvrat demanding that   take over the case immediately and speed up the investigation.
 
 Different organizations also held protest demonstration in Nahan where slogans were raised against the government and the police. All India Democratic Women’s Association, state president, Santosh Kapoor alleged that it was unfortunate that both the government and police were trying to save the real culprits responsible for the gang rape and murder of the minor girl.
 
 Protest was also held in Bilaspur where people alleged that correct information about the accused was not being provided by the police. They alleged evidence was being destroyed under the garb of investigation.
 
