NEW DELHI: The court has to bear in mind how the society perceives the diabolical nature of a crime and the manner in which it was committed. Submitting the case was “rarest of rare” and more brutal than that of Nirbhaya’s, the prosecution on Thursday sought   for a 22-year-old domestic help, accused in the sensational   of an 81-year-old woman, saying he did not deserve any sympathy.

 “Trust of the deceased was betrayed as she had hired him as a 24-hours employee and he was supposed to take care of her. But she was subjected to sexual assault in the most barbaric manner,” submitted senior public prosecutor A T Ansari. The submissions were made before Additional Sessions Judge (ASJ) Sanjiv Jain as the deceased’s family members looked on.
 
 The woman, widow of a journalist, lived on the ground floor and her body was found in a semi-burnt condition on the first floor flat of the four-storey building in Greater Kailash II on July 7, 2014. The senior citizen had been living alone after her husband died in 2005. The incident exposed the vulnerability of senior citizens to heinous crimes in the city.
 
 The chargesheet said that the modus operandi was as if the convict Neeraj Saifi wanted to conceal the identity of the octogenarian. “The convict smothered and strangulated her, and making sure that no evidence is left, he set her body on fire by way of cutting open a mattress, cutting the foam into pieces and lighting it with kerosene. It is more brutal than Nirbhaya,” said prosecution.
 
 ASJ Jain had on January 3 convicted Saifi, who hails from Madhubani, Bihar, under   sections related to rape, murder and destruction of evidence. 
 
 SPP Ansari on Monday mentioned important aggravating circumstances on the basis of which he sought the court to consider the case “rarest-of-rare”. Ansari said, “He had betrayed the trust of his employer. The age of deceased should be considered and brutality with which he committed the crime. He tried to give an impression that he is innocent by remaining at the scene of crime after smothering and strangulating her, and setting her ablaze.”
 
 The prosecution cited circumstantial evidence, conduct of the accused, testimonies of witnesses, post-mortem report of the victim and other medical reports to prove that Saifi was the culprit. The witnesses comprised the woman’s family members, neighbours and servants. The police had even claimed that Saifi had admitted to his crime during custodial interrogation.
 
 “I pray he is awarded death penalty,” Ansari submitted, calling Saifi “menace to the society” and someone who showed no signs of reformation.
 
 The defense lawyer, on the other hand, argued that her client be given the “benefit of doubt”. When the court asked Saifi about his age and background, he responded saying he was 22 years of age and belonged to a family of farmers. The court scheduled February 16 as date of the sentencing order.
 
 
