It is common to find complainants trying to capitalize on a defect or a deficiency to   an exaggerated amount of compensation which has no nexus with the extent of loss suffered. The recent judgment of the National Commission in the case of Dr Purshottan Bhagvandas Tahilramani, chairman of Deep Paramedical Organization at Thane v/s Bajaj Allianz General Insura-nce is an example of the same.

 Case Study: On recommendation of its bankers, Axis Bank, Deep Paramedical Organization (DPO) approached Bajaj Allianz for   coverage. The organization had taken two insurance policies. One was a standard fire and special perils policy with a coverage of Rs 1 crore for a premium of Rs 9,254, and the other a burglary policy of Rs 2 crores for a premium of Rs16,545.
 
 DPO was functioning from rented premises. The landlord filed a civil suit for eviction of the premise. On February 19, 2012 DPO’s premises were vandalized by the landlord and his goons. An FIR was lodged. Within a few weeks the premise was again vandalized on March 11, 2012 resulting in loss of property, for which another FIR was lodged.
 
 DPO lodged a claim for the loss caused due to vandalism. The insurance appointed a surveyor, but the claim was not settled. The insured then filed a complaint before the National Commission against the insurance company, the surveyor and the bank. It alleged that its claim was repudiated on the false presumptions. DPO sought Rs 3 crores for the loss due to vandalism, a monthly compensation of Rs 2 lakh till the claim was settled, Rs 50 lakh towards delay in settlement of the claim, another Rs 50 lakh for mental trauma, and Rs 5 lakhs towards litigation costs. 
 
 The complaint was contested by all the parties.
 
 The National Commission noticed that the FIR lodged with the police gave a list of the stolen and damaged property and its value. According to this list, the total valuation was Rs 3.43 lakh for loss and damage but an amount of Rs 3 crores was claimed in the consumer complaint. As the claim was grossly inflated, the National Commission considered it to be a fraudulent claim.
 
 The Commission relied on the judgement of the Supreme Court in S P Chengalvaraya Naidu v/s Jagannath [AIR 1994 Supreme Court 853], where the apex court had observed that courts of law are meant for imparting justice, so a party who approaches the court must come with clean hands. A person whose case is based on falsehood has no right to approach the court, and can be summarily thrown out at any stage of the litigation. A litigant is also bound to produce all the documents executed by him which are relevant to the litigation. If he withholds a vital document in order to gain advantage over the other side, he would be guilty of praying   on the court as well as on the other party.
 
 Accordingly, by its order of January 24, delivered by the Bench of Justice Ajit Bharihoke and Member Anup Thakur, the National Commission dismissed DPO’s complaint, holding it to be fraudulent and based on false pleas.
 
 Conclusion: The law provides that a consumer must be compensated for the loss caused to him. So the claim for compensation must be quantified reasonably. Intangible claims for mental harassment can be made as long as the claim is reasonable. It should not be arbitrary or excessive to capitalize or profiteer from the filing of a consumer complaint. If an absurd claim is lodged it is treated as a fraudulent claim and is liable to be dismissed. So it is better to be reasonable rather than greedy when filing a complaint.
 
 (The author is a consumer activist and has won the Govt. of India's National Youth Award for Consumer Protection. His email is jehangir.gai.columnist@outlook.in)
 
 
