

 Barely three months after her last visit, Lilly Singh   aka   came back to India on her first ever field visit as the goodwill ambassador for Last week, she spent time in  , meeting young boys and girls who have brought positive changes to their lives despite challenging circumstances, before coming to Delhi on Saturday. Here, she was officially appointed the goodwill ambassador and met students from Delhi schools and NGOs, as well as Yasmin Haque, UNICEF's new representative in India.
 
 “I think it is an interesting partnership, because I am the first goodwill ambassador from the digital space. I interact with my audience in a very different way, and I think I will have many creative suggestions for the UNICEF . We can speak to the youth through digital platforms. I think you all are going to see great content from my visit to MP in my videos soon,“ says Lilly .
 
 It hasn't been long since the Superwoman had issues while getting an Indian visa during her last visit. She tweeted to the External Affairs Minister, Sushma Swaraj, about her visa issues and like always, the minister replied to her tweet in no time. Did she face any such problems this time, we ask her? “The visa officer did not ask me anything this time. He told me that the day he got the tweet, it was such a bad morning, but it is sad that I had to tweet about the whole situation. But thankfully, there was no problem this time,“ she replies.
 
 
 
 
 On her visit to Madhya Pradesh, Lilly met young boys and girls and spent some time with them and she tells us that it was a learning experience for her.“Maybe, my problems while living in LA can be com` pletely different than the problems that they face.They are talking about the problems of not having toilets, and I am talking about the problems I have with my iPhone 7. But I found that these problems are the foundation of bigger things. For example, when we talk about gender inequality in LA, I think t about the sexist comments on my videos, and when you listen to these kids, they are talking about child s marriage and education. So I learnt a lot in that re` gard. The core of the issue is not the policies, but the I reality that girls are valued less than boys. There are so many cultural practices that emphasize that the girls are treated less than boys. It comes to small things. Like when my nephews and nieces come over, I for some reason, Indian families have this rule that the girls will sit in one room and the boys will sit in another. I am like, `Why do you always need to divide by gender?' Let the girls sit with the boys if they want to, because otherwise we are teaching them that they can't sit next to each other, “ she says.
  
  
 
 
 In one of her recent videos, Lilly is seen dressed up as a White Walker from Game Of Thrones, and she says that it took her four hours to get the make-up right. “I'll give you an example of the extent to which I can go for my videos. Before I became friends with Priyanka Chopra, I had done a parody video of her Exotic video. That's how we became friends. But I lived in Toronto at that time and I was trying to create a shot-to-shot video. And in the video, there are shots of her coming out of the water. She must be in some tropical place at that time, but I was in Toronto while making the video and it was very cold there. But I drove 40 minutes to a lake in Toronto and in the freezing weather, I went inside the lake and came out just like her. I will go pretty far for a video, I am crazy like that,“ she adds.
 
 
 
 
 The content in most of Lilly's videos is based on true incidents. She tells us that though she doesn't live with her parents anymore, whenever she visits them, they give her at least five ideas for videos.“My parents intentionally do things to give me video ideas. They'll do something, like scold me, and then say , `You should make a video on that'. A lot of things that the character Manjeet in my videos says, is directly from my dad. `Old is gold but I am platinum', I don't know what that means, but my dad says that all the time. There is another video that I have, which is called Facebook Invite Gone Wrong. I was at a family party and I had a school teenage event and on FB, I casually sent invites to all my friends in my list. I actually did that and while I was at the family event, my aunt came up to me and asked, `Oh, what should I wear for this party?' I am like,' You are not invited'. Then my dad came up to me and asked, `Why am I not invited?' and then there was just chaos because everyone was upset because they were not invited. I told all of them, `None of you are invited for this party'. I had made a video on that,“ she laughs. 
 
 
 
  
  
 
