CHENNAI: Deepa Jayakumar, J  's niece, has become a rallying point for AIADMK dissidents unhappy with Sasikala taking over as general secretary of the party.“I never claimed I am the political heir (of her aunt). But owing to my natural relationship with her, I have been seen in that sense. In my view, our relationship was like between a mother and a daughter,“ she told TOI.

 Three months ago, few knew Deepa. When she was refused entry into   to see her ailing aunt, Deepa became known through the media. People later caught a glimpse of her at Jayalalithaa's funeral.
 
 Recently ,  , Deepa's residence in T Nagar, has become a centre of attraction for party faithful. They come from far away to see her and hear her speak. On Sunday , Jayalalithaa's niece addressed them from the balcony of her house for a few minutes. “Ungalukkaga Naan (I am for you),“ she said with a pause, sending the crowd into raptures, since it reminded them of Jayalalithaa's refrain, “Makkalukkaga Naan (I am for the people).“
 
 On Sasikala taking charge of the party, Deepa says party workers' views have been ignored. “If I wish to become a democratically elected leader there is nothing wrong in it,“ she said. Creating political ripples in the wake of her aunt Jayalalithaa's death, Deepa Jayakumar on Saturday said people saw her as the political heir of the former chief minister. “That is the wish of many and it could be considered,“ said Deepa, who is the daughter of Jayalalithaa's brother Jayakumar.
 
 Sections of party cadres and supporters from across the state have been visiting her residence, Sandhya Illam in T Nagar, pleading with her to enter the race for the post of AIADMK chief. Members of the AIADMK, disaffected by V K Sasikala taking charge of the party, have been congregating at Deepa's residence. Traffic came to a standstill in T Nagar after she picked up a microphone and addressed supporters from the balcony of her house. “Remain patient for a while,“ she told the crowd. Some cadres were angry after some banners and posters that drew par allels between Deepa and Jayalalithaa were torn by `rivals' near her residence.
 
 Deepa said cadres' opinion had been totally ignored in the developments arising out of the death of Jayalalithaa. “I don't think anyone could ever replace her (Jayalalithaa). At the moment, I think she (Sasikala) is playing the role that was left vacant,“ she said. “Since all these are speculations we have to wait and see.“ Incidentally, Jayalalithaa had stayed in Sandhya Illam before moving to her Poes Garden bungalow. Deepa's brother,  , who lives nearby, is said to have switched loyalties to Sasikala.
 
 Amid slogans of “Deepamma, thalaimai erka va (come and take over the leadership),“ Deepa said she was surprised by the number of party cadres who came to her T Na gar residence after Jayalalithaa's death. “I did not expect this. But this is proof of cadres' expectations,“ she told TOI, adding that the various fan clubs that have sprung up in her name across the state have not been authorized by her.The loud speakers near her house blare out MGR songs, and crowds cheering has become a regular feature.
 
 Deepa said she will decide whether to join politics or not after an analysis of the situation, taking into account the will of the people and cadres. In the context of the R K Nagar constituency falling vacant in the wake of Jayalalithaa's death, her niece said she had no plans now to contest any election. “I have been pushed suddenly into this (present) scenario. I have to evaluate all the developments and then take a decision,“ she said.
 
