HYDERABAD: Three years after being slapped with a criminal case for running junior colleges under the guise of IIT coaching, three major educational groups in Hyderabad are continuing the racket, Telangana State Board of Intermediate Education said (TSBIE).

 
 As per BIE norms, 88 students can be admitted in each section of a class and more students can be allowed if the institute adds more facilities and faculty.However, insiders say majority of corporate junior colleges take bulk admission in various illegal branches, but enrol students for the intermediate examination from a branch, which has recognition from the board.
 
 “After vigilance cases were filed by the government against these groups, we had issued notices to them six months ago to rectify the violations. We have now received a report based on which we will take action against colleges which have unauthorised opera tion,“ said TSBIE secretary A Ashok. Board officials have been quiet on the issue for some time as despite violations, no action has been taken against the unauthorised operations.
 
 The erstwhile government of united   in June 2013 had ordered criminal proceedings against these groups for running intermediate clas ses which the Board of Intermediate Education does not recognise.
 
 This is not the first time that the BIE has issued notices to the college managements. It may be recalled that in 2013, notices were slapped on 15 such colleges functioning in the   area.
 
 Sources say the BIE has overlooked the blatant vio lations in various areas.“The violations by these colleges range from poor infrastructure, absence of faculty to absence of NOCs for fire safety from the  ,“ said an official in TSBIE.
 
 With absence of a fee regulatory body, many junior colleges have also found to be charging exorbitant amount towards intermediate education fee.
 
 “The   fixes fee for degree and professional courses. With corporate colleges charging anywhere between Rs 35,000 and Rs 3.5 lakh, there is a need to have a fee regulatory body in place for private and corporate junior colleges as well,“ opined P Madhusudan Reddy, Telangana Government Junior Lecturers' Association.
 
 Jolted into action after the Vasavi junior college scam, where 244 students could not take the ongoing intermediate examination as they were not given hall tickets, the TSBIE is now outlining an action plan to crack the whip on hundreds of similar institutes across the state. Also, the board is contemplating to post a list of affiliated colleges on its website.
 
