MUMBAI: Amid the rising popularity of an  , global changes are shaping the dynamics of where students are flying. 

 A survey reveals that the percentage of non-US citizens who say they are now less likely to study in the land of the free has grown to 43% in April 2017 from 35% in November 2016. Similarly, a   has revealed that Indian candidates are negatively influenced by the Brexit vote, with 58% reporting that it has made them less likely to study in the UK.
 
 Countries such as Canada, Australia, Germany and   seem to be gaining from the waning sentiment towards the top two education destinations due to the closed climate.
 
 A recent   ( ) survey states that nearly three of five prospective business school students (59%) intend to apply for programmes outside their home country, up from 44% in 2009.
 
  Most study abroad to receive a higher quality education (63% of the respondents), to increase their chances of securing international employment (58%), and to expand their international connections (51%). 
 
  "Since November 2016, a growing share of international candidates say they are now less likely to pursue a graduate business degree in the US due to the presidential election results," states the survey. 
 
 A third (34%) of the candidates who prefer to study outside their country of citizenship intend to seek employment in the country where they prefer to attend school. Moreover, fresh research also shows that three out of four B-school aspirants are holding a prior master's degree.
 
 The survey reveals that MBA remains the final sign-off or the predominant programme considered by candidates with both prior business master's degrees (61%) and non-business master's degrees (86%).
 
 "These findings demonstrate that a business master's degree is not necessarily the end of graduates' business education," said Sangeet Chowla, president and CEO of GMAC. "For many, their business master's degree is a stepping stone to continued professional development that may include an MBA down the road, in either a full-time or part-time format."
 
 Rising costs of an   also play on candidates' mind. Approximately half of the surveyed candidates indicated that not having enough money available to pay for their education (52%) and potentially having to take on large debts (47%) may prevent them from pursuing a graduate business degree.
 
 The two most important financial aspects that candidates evaluate when deciding where to apply are total tuition costs and scholarship availability. "Compared with 2009, candidates, on average, expect to cover a greater share of the cost of their education with grants, fellowships, and scholarships and a smaller share with parental support, loans, and employer assistance," the survey says.
 
