Kolkata: Indranil Sarkar and his Bengali friends are planning to push off an hour early from their office in Bengaluru’s Kormangla to reach the M Chinnaswamy stadium for Wednesday’s   match between Kolkata and  .

 Kaustav Kashyap Mallick (21) has put aside his Bangalore team jersey and bought a fresh purple and gold one. He and his friends vow to shout their lungs out in support of their favourite team — Kolkata Knight Riders.
 
 The team have found a home away from home in Bengaluru with a bunch of Kolkata supporters heading to the stadium on Wednesday where they are going to square off against Sunrisers Hyderabad for the eliminator match and if they win, they are going to play the second qualifier on the same ground two days later.
 
 With thousands of Kolkatans living and working in Bengaluru and hundreds of others heading south from Kolkata in the next two days, the Chinnaswamy stadium is supposed to be packed with fans rooting for Kolkata.
 
 According to Bengali Association of Bangalore, there are approximately 6.5 lakh   in a metropolis of around 8 million and this gives Kolkata an edge above Hyderabad for this knock out match.
 
 “I have been loyal to the Kolkata team, since the IPL began in 2008. I am a die hard Shah Rukh Khan fan. Though I’ve been in Bengaluru for the last three years, my love for my home team is still the same,” said Indranil Sarkar (24) who works as an executive at a private firm in Bengaluru.
 
 Kaustav Kashyap Mallick (21), who plays cricket for a local club in South Bengaluru is a huge fan of Virat Kohli and swears by Bengaluru but with his beloved team out of the contention, his second favourite is Kolkata. “Kolkata team won my heart both the times they played against Bengaluru this year. Chris Lynn and Sunil Narine were superb and I am rooting for them,” said Mallick.
 
 “We saw how Eden had supported Bengaluru when Kohli and team played there this year. The ground was visibly filled with majority of Kohli fans who looked devastated despite the home team’s win. Similar scenes are expected at Bengaluru,” said Krishnakali Chatterjee, who works for a software development firm in Bengaluru.
 
 TOI had reported on Tuesday how air ticket prices between Kolkata and Bengaluru are soaring. Nonetheless, seats in all the 12 daily-flights are filling up fast due to the match.
 
 
