NEW DELHI: Twitter, US President  's favourite means of communication, completely abhors US President Donald Trump's ban on immigrants and refugees from Muslim countries.

  "Twitter is built by immigrants of all religions. We stand for and with them, always," Twitter said on its own official account.
 
 
  
  
 Jack Dorsey, CEO of Twitter, elaborated in tweets on his personal account.
 
  
  
 
  Trump's order from Friday 
  and denies entry for 90 days to people from Iraq, Iran, Somalia, Sudan, Syria, Libya and Yemen.
 
  About that, Dorsey further tweeted:
 
  
  
 
 Om Malik, founder of Gigaom and currently partner at venture capital firm True Ventures, wondered if this situation marks the end of a dream.
 
 "Let's hope, this in not end of a dream. It is painful to see the land which was all about hope and possiblits become this place. Forget the politics, why are we being less human in our policies. Very very sad," Malik wrote on Facebook. 
 
  Separately, Airbnb co-founder   also slammed the ban on Muslim immigrants and announced that Airbnb is providing free housing to refugees and anyone not allowed in the US. 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  Chesky also said: "Open doors brings all of US together. Closing doors further divides US. Let's all find ways to connect people, not separate them." 
 
  
  
 
 Trump’s actions “..are so un-American it pains us all,” said Netflix CEO Reed Hastings in a Facebook post.
 
  
 
 
 
  Uber founder   said in a Facebook post that the company has reached out to the "dozen or so employees" who will be affected.
 
  "While every government has their own immigration controls, allowing people from all around the world to come here and make America their home has largely been the U.S.’s policy since its founding," Kalanick wrote.
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Venture capitalist , president of Y Combinator and co-chairman of OpenAI said in a
 : Ït is time for 
  .” He called many of Trump’s actions “objectionable” but said his executive order from Friday titled “Protecting the Nation From Foreign Terrorist Entry Into the United States” is probably the one that required the most objection. 
 
 
 
  Logan Green, CEO of Uber competitor Lfyt, said the ban is against the core values of the US.
 
  Recode.net quoted Green as saying: 
 
  "Throughout our history, Lyft has worked hard to create an inclusive, diverse and conscientious community where all of our drivers and passengers feel welcome and respected. Banning people of a particular religion from entering the U.S. is antithetical to both Lyft's and our nation's core values."
 
    CEO Time Cook earlier today joined the group of tech CEOs against the ban.
 
  Recode.net, a technology news web site obtained a copy of an email Cook sent to Apple staff.
 
  “Apple would not exist without immigration, let alone thrive and innovate the way we do. I've heard from many of you who are deeply concerned about the executive order issued yesterday restricting immigration from seven Muslim-majority countries. I share your concerns. It is not a policy we support,” he wrote in the email, says Recode.net. 
 
  This is Cook's full letter as posted on Recode.net's web site.
 
  “Team, In my conversations with officials here in Washington this week, I've made it clear that Apple believes deeply in the importance of immigration — both to our company and to our nation's future. Apple would not exist without immigration, let alone thrive and innovate the way we do.
 
  I've heard from many of you who are deeply concerned about the executive order issued yesterday restricting immigration from seven Muslim-majority countries. I share your concerns. It is not a policy we support.
 
  There are employees at Apple who are directly affected by yesterday's immigration order. Our HR, Legal and Security teams are in contact with them, and Apple will do everything we can to support them. We’re providing resources on AppleWeb for anyone with questions or concerns about immigration policies. And we have reached out to the White House to explain the negative effect on our coworkers and our company.
 
  As I've said many times, diversity makes our team stronger. And if there’s one thing I know about the people at Apple, it’s the depth of our empathy and support for one another. It’s as important now as it’s ever been, and it will not weaken one bit. I know I can count on all of you to make sure everyone at Apple feels welcome, respected and valued.
 
  Apple is open. Open to everyone, no matter where they come from, which language they speak, who they love or how they worship. Our employees represent the finest talent in the world, and our team hails from every corner of the globe.
 
  In the words of Dr.  , "We may have all come on different ships, but we are in the same boat now."
 
 
 
 
