AMRITSAR: The DSGMC has decided to start a   to reclaim the land of historical Gurdwara Gyan Godhri at  , Hardwar, Uttrakhand. Talking to TOI on Tuesday, DSGMC president   GK said that the general house of the committee had resolved to reclaim the land of the gurdwara and restore the same to its pristine glory.

 “We have begun efforts to generate a movement by inviting Sikhs from around the globe to join the cause,” said GK. He said the DSGMC would send its delegation to Uttrakhand to prepare a detailed report before bringing the issue to the notice of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.
 
 GK said a delegation of the DSGMC had sought appointments with Modi and the chief ministers of Uttar Pradesh and Uttrakahnd for giving them representation on the issue of reconstruction of the gurdwara.
 
 Uttrakhand Minorities Commission chairman Narinderjit Singh Bindra said that Gurdwara Gyan Godhir was constructed in 1935 on a property given by the Landran Estate. In 1979, the then Uttar Pradesh government acquired the land in the name of beautification but it was not returned to Sikhs despite government offering alternate places to the evacuees. He stated that later the government allotted an alternate place for the gurdwara but the land was disputed between governments of UP and Uttrakhand. He said the National Commission for Minorities had given directions for the display of a placard at the place of gurdwara, informing that Guru Nanak Dev had visited the place.
 
 Akal Takht jathedar Giani Gurbachan Singh had earlier issued directions to carry out a movement for the gurdwara only under the aegis of Akal Takht, but violating the directives, Sikh bodies, including All India Sikh Conference and Panthic Sewa Lehar, had started efforts on their own.
 
 The president of the All India Sikh Conference Gurcharan Singh Babbar also unilaterally started a drive for the reconstruction of the gurdwara. Babbar stated that he had called upon Sikhs to reach Hardwar on April 14 for a ‘dharam yudh.’ GK said it was a good cause but at the same time he opined that a united fight by Sikhs under the aegis of Akal Takht would yield much-desired results and send a positive message. 
 
