NAGPUR: As the deadline for filing online applications for farm   comes to an end ended on Friday, the   government ambitious plan to roll out the scheme for an estimated 98 lakh farmers may encounter a fresh hurdle.

 State-run Vasantkrao Naik Shetkari Swavalamban Mission, a task force to tackle farm distress, has in its reports expressed serious concern over the waiver claim applications filed by those individuals who do own the land but give on lease to the tillers. According to Mission head  , the number of such fake claimants whose applications may be rejected outright, is in the range of 30 lakh.
 
 This startling revelation by Tiwari may trigger a fresh controversy. Earlier, state revenue minister   incurred wrath of rival political parties and farm activists for making an allegation that around 10 lakh claims by farmers could be fake and not meet norms set for the farm loan waiver. He had claimed that the software devised by the government could easily weed out such ineligible claims during processing.
 
 Tiwari’s claim of even higher number of farmers missing the waiver bus could only raise the political temperature in the state. The waiver scheme has already been seen with suspicion and even rejected by Shiv Sena which insists on a blanket waiver to all farmers, no questions asked.
 
 Explaining his fear of large scale rejection, Tiwari said it is a known fact that dryland farming in   and   regions is too arduous an occupation. So, at least 30% of cultivable land is leased out by actual title owners who collect lease rent for the year while someone else does the cultivation.
 
 Quite often this absentee landlord has a job or has business, practices law or medicine or is into politics. They may own titles of the land but may not have availed crop loans as it the lessee invests from the crop from his own resources since he cannot get bank credit as title is not in his name. “Niti Aayog is already deliberating on giving some relief to such lessee or landless farmers as it their hard work than needs compensation and not of title owner who wants to make quick money just on ownership,” said Tiwari.
 
