PATNA: City’s   resident Neetu was pleased to see a truck lifting the garbage from her locality at regular intervals on Friday and Saturday. “I visit the   near Sri Krishna Puri Children’s Park. Walking amid garbage to perform a puja spoils my mood. It is touching to see the administration is prepping the city for the celebrations,” Neetu said on Saturday, day before Holika Dahan.

 Not that only the Boring Road area is looking clean. Almost every locality of the city can be seen being cleaned ahead of the two-day Holi celebrations, beginning Sunday.
 
 “All our offices, including the   (PMC) HQ, our control room and our circle units, will function on March 12 and 14,” PMC commissioner Abhishek Singh said, adding sanitation workers would remain at work to clean the city before and after the festivities.
 
 The civic body has also initiated measures to prevent people from burning tyres and polythene bags on the Holika pyres as they will add to the air pollution. “We had also urged the Patna DM to launch an awareness drive about cleanliness in educational institutes,” Singh said.
 
 All the major routes and important areas are swept late in night. Additional garbage lifting vehicles have been requisitioned. “I will personally move around to ensure Patnaites get a clean city to celebrate the festival of colours,” said the PMC boss.
 
 The state forest department has taken steps to prevent tree felling for Holika Dahan. According to Patna DFO (divisional forest officer) Mihir Kumar Jha, people generally do not cut trees for Holikas, but “we have as a precautionary measure directed our forest guards to keep a vigil”.
 
 Police have made special arrangments to ensure Holi passes off peacefully. At least 40 special checkpoints have been created in the city with policemen randomly checking vehicles for alcohol and firearms. They also keep a tab on traffic rule violations, if any, by bikers and motorists.
 
 According to police sources, mobile police teams have also been formed to act against revellers trying to disrupt peace, harass women or indulge in vandalism in the name of Holi.
 
 Patna (central range) DIG Shalin said all the SHOs have been asked to remain on alert. “We have asked our officers to keep their eyes and ears open... They have been asked to act even against lehariya-cut bikers,” he said.
 
