VIJAYAWADA: The much-discussed issue of 33 per cent   in legislative bodies received a shot in the arm when   spoke in favour of it on the concluding day of   (NWP) here on Sunday.

 Lok Sabha Speaker  , AP chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu, BJP MP from  , former MLA and film actress Jayasudha and AP civil supplies minister Paritala Sunitha strongly advocated passing of the Women's Reservation Bill in the Parliament to ensure participation of women in politics and policy-making in the country .
 
 Pointing out that political power is supreme, Naidu requested Sumitra Mahajan to take the lead in passing the bill in the Parliament. “Under your leadership, 33% reservation for women in legislative bodies should become a reality. We shall mobilise the support of political parties and the general public support. We are all with her,“ he said. Art of Living founder Sri Sri Ravi Shankar too pledged his support to women's reservation in politics and said that if the bill is passed by the parliament, In dia will set an example to the world. Rajakumari, Sunitha and others focussed on the need for higher women's participation in political proceedings. Jayasudha, explaining the need for reservation for women, however, added that quota should only be used as an encouragement in the beginning of the process.
 
 “We have to use reservation as a crutch till we start walking again. But by no means we should let our dependence on reservation become a regular feature as quotas are temporary which will give women a limited representation only,“ she said.
 
 Mahajan pointed out that everybody supported women's quota. “All of us are for reservation for women. But when women ask for reservation, it should not be the case where somebody (men) is giving it to them. It is important for the country that women are in the forefront of nation-building,“ she said. The Lok Sabha speaker further said that the parliament is making consistent efforts to put women legislators participate in policy formation and programme implementation, particularly in the sphere of development.She pointed out that national conclaves were held in the last two years for women's empowerment.
 
 She added that every party should come forward to pass the bill which is the need of the hour. “We must offer reservation respectfully. We, collectively, are going for women's empowerment for the good of the nation,“ she added.
 
