Vadodara: Till three years ago, it was almost impossible for any human to even stand on this barren piece of land owned by Gujarat Mineral Development Corporation Limited (GMDC) at Panandhro in Kutch. Besides heat and sandstorm, the heap of dumps in this lignite mine had actually turned the terrain acidic. Acid was ooze out if water was poured on it out due to high lignite content. 

 But visit the place now, and the same land presents and eye-pleasing picture of lush greenery. It has become a home to least 18 species of birds and lizards, thanks the efforts of Gujarat Ecological Society (GES). GES has turned a portion of this huge land into a green zone in this desert. 
 
 As GMDC is closing its mining operations there, it had taken up restoration work of the land and three hectares of total 1,719 hectares was given to GES.
 
 “In the first year, we were given two hectares. After some tests, we found the pH level of the land is 3.5 which is highly acidic. On pouring water on the soil, acid used to ooze out of the land,” said Dr Deepa Gavali, director of GES and a biologist, who worked there along with Dr Jayendra Lakhmapurkar, deputy director and a geologist and Tejas Patel, an environment scientist.
 
 “We sprayed a mixture of vermiculite, gypsum, cow dung and compost initially and conducted plantation. But, after spraying the mixture, the land became more acidic as sulphur content was high. “For first six months, the mortality rate of the plants was as high as 50%,” Gavali said, adding, “We then added potassium hydroxide to stabilize the acid formation and treated soil with cow dung.”
 
 With the new experiment, the pH level of land increased to 6.1 and along with plants that the researchers had sowed, native species started growing there naturally. Interestingly, a plant known as convolvulus stocksii which is on the verge of extinction in Kutch grew on its own.
 
 In 2016, the researchers were given another hectare of land where they conducted similar experiments and got 80% success rate. Gavali said that in 2017 which is the third year, the chlorine level has come down and the height of plants have also increased giving enough shade.
 
 In the past, GMDC too had tried to restore the same area by covering the land with nets which ultimately got burnt due to high content of acid. However, the land has now shown lot of improvement and the researchers have now even sighted different species of birds there.
 
 “In 2016 we sighted 11 species of birds and this year the number has gone up to 18. Ater December census, there are possibilities of an increase in the number,” said Gavali. She also said that fan-throated lizards have also made this place their home and their population is increasing. With the increase in their numbers, jackals, who prey on them, have been sighted there four times this year.
 
 GES researchers will be getting one more hectare of land next year for restoration. Gavali told TOI that they are going to request for little more land after success of three hectares.
 
 
