JAIPUR: From March onwards, vegetable prices are likely to burn a hole in pockets of the homemakers. As local harvest of vegetables including tomatoes, chilli, lemon, coriander and bottle gourd is likely to go down, prices are likely to shoot up. Prices of vegetables are all time cheap since January due to extremely good local harvest. However, wholesale traders are expecting scarcity of vegetables as local harvest gets exhausted from March. 

 Presently, homemakers are enjoying vegetable shopping as prices remained cheaper in January and February. Tomatoes in wholesale are priced at Rs 5 to Rs 10 per kg where as it is selling at Rs 10 to Rs 15 per kg in retail market. Onion, which usually brings tears in eyes of the common man, is sold in Rs 10 to Rs 15 per kg in the wholesale while its retail market value is Rs 15 to Rs 20 per kg. 
 
 “From mid-March when local harvest of these crops would be finished, there is going to be trouble. From this period, we would be dependent on Maharashtra, Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh for vegetables and thus supply would be less which will add to the price rise. We are expecting a rise of 15 percent to 25 percent in vegetable price from mid-March,” said Abdul Aziz, a wholesale dealer of fruits and vegetables at Mohana Mandi which supplies major chunk of vegetables in the city. 
 
 According to sources, traders are also into hoarding of onions, potatoes and ginger sensing the upcoming scarcity. 
 
 “We got bumper crop this time from Bassi, Kanota, Chommu, Chandwaji, Dudu and other nearby villages due to which the prices of vegetables were cheaper compared to last three years. Now, when local crop would be exhausted due to supply from mid-March , prices would be high. I think, prices of onion, potato, tomato, ginger, bottle gourd, pea, chilli and lemon would be affected,” said Sadiq Ahamed, another wholesale trader at Mohana Mandi. 
 
 Wholesale traders are expecting rise in vegetable prices from mid-March onwards. “The season for peas would be over by then and we will have to get cold storage stuff for customers which would be selling at Rs 35 to Rs 45 in wholesale and Rs 45 to Rs 50 in retail markets,” said Nanak Ram Saini, a wholesale trader of tomato and pea in Mohana Mandi. 
 
