LOUTOLIM: Did you know that the cross comes in different styles like the ‘Y’, ‘X’, ‘T’, Mexican, Russian, Ethiopian, Anchor, St Peter’s, St Andrew’s and St Thomas’? India’s only cross museum, where one can come across a thousand-odd such types, is based in   in Goa, the village from where the legendary   hailed.
 
  The man behind the museum is artist Maendra Joceline Araujo Alvares, more popularly known as the ‘The Big Foot’ man.
  
  For Christians, the cross is a symbol of the atonement, reminding Christians of god's love for humanity in that he sacrificed his own son for them. It represents Jesus' victory over sin and death, since it is believed that through his death and resurrection he conquered death itself. Hence, for the faithful, especially as the Lenten season comes to end, the cross place a significant role in portraying the sufferings of Jesus, condemned as he was to die on the cross.
  
  In conversation with   says that it is an accidental discovery that led to his investigating, gathering and collecting crosses from all over the world. In 2004, Alvares says, he bought an upside down cross, which led to the genesis to the museum as the find served to peak his curiosity.
  
  On researching Alvares found that the cross was of the St Peter style.
  
  It is believed that St Peter was crucified upside down at his own request as he did not feel worthy to die in the same way as Jesus. Similar is the story of the St Andrew cross which is in the shape of an ‘X’.
  
  There was on looking back for Alvares, who says that in a short time he collected 100 different types of crosses, all from Goa itself! “In 2004 Internet access was either limited or patchy, hence I had to speak to priests like Fr Savio Rodrigues, Fr Levis   or visit libraries for details,” he adds.
  
  In 2005, the artist went on an European tour along with his family where he picked up 400 different crosses. The same year he held his first exhibition at Casa Araujo Alvares, Loutolim, showcasing 500 crosses. This was followed by exhibitions at Fundacao Oriente in Panajim followed by one at Pilar and another at Old Goa. “This had its effect. Family members, friends and even priests started gifting me various crosses. Fr Ozzie gave me four Ethiopian crosses and archbishop of   in Zambia, South Africa, T G Mpundu contributed some from Africa.”
  
  In 2006 Maendra’s collection had touched 1,548. “With so many crosses I decided to open a museum at Loutolim. It was like a blessing because at the time president of Pontifical, Commission of Culture, Vatican, Rome, Paul Cardinal Poupard happened to be in Goa and did the honours of inaugurating the museum”.
  
  The museum has also made it to the record books — World Record India and World Amazing Record in 2012, India Book of Record also in 2012, and   in 2013. “On display from 2006 are 1,548 different crosses. Since then I have collected another 300, which are yet to be displayed,” Alvares says.
