CHENNAI: Following a day that offered its fair share of twists and turns, both contests on Monday were fairly one-sided in nature in the 91st All-India MCC-Murugappa Gold Cup   tournament at the Mayor Radhakrishnan Stadium here.   ran away 3-0 winners against Punjab & Sind Bank while defending champions   romped to an emphatic 4-0 victory against   (HUT). In the process, Railways sealed their place in the semifinals and Bengaluru, too, seem to be on course to make the last-four. 

 Bengaluru were going into the contest on the back of a rousing 4-3 win against BPCL on Sunday, but they failed to create any significant chances in the opening period. Their opponents, Punjab & Sind Bank, were equally pedestrian, with their only move of note coming towards the end of the first half when Harnek Singh put in a sharp cross from the left flank but it was too quick for Karamjit Singh to latch onto.
 
 While PSB started the second half on a slightly stronger note, Bengaluru took the lead in the 49th minute. The source was none other than VR Raghunath, who showed that he has still got plenty left in the tank by converting a penalty corner. They doubled the lead in the 60th minute, with Sandeep K Singh deflecting in a long-range strike from Rajkumar Pal. Six minutes later, Rajkumar – the provider for the second goal – turned goal scorer as Bengaluru wrapped up a 3-0 win.
 
 Asked about their lukewarm display in the early stages before regrouping successfully for the second half, Bengaluru coach Ashish Ballal felt playing back-to-back matches with very little time to recover took a toll on the players.
 
 “The fatigue was definitely an issue that hindered us in the first half in particular. Also, Vikram Kanth is still struggling with a hamstring injury and is not at his 100% as yet. We have 3 days to recover now before our next game and hopefully that will help us,” Ballal said. 
 
 In the other match, Railways had it very easy against HUT as was widely expected. They went 3-0 up in the first half itself, Karan Pal Singh, Pardeep Singh and Raju Pal all getting their name onto the score sheet. They could have added a few more goals to their tally in the second half as well, but could manage just one more with Raju Pal getting his second of the game.
 
 Railways coach CR Kumar, however, demanded more ruthlessness from the attacking players in the games to come. “I’m happy with our victory, but not so with the scoreline. We should have scored more goals in the second half for sure. I don’t know whether complacency crept in, but I expect more from the team,” he said. 
 
 Results: Bengaluru Hockey Association 3 (VR Raghunath 49, Sandeep K Singh 60, Rajkumar Pal 66) – Punjab & Sind Bank 0; Indian Railways 4 (Karan Pal Singh 5, Pardeep Singh 10, Raju Pal 35, 42) – Hockey Unit of Tamil Nadu 0
 
 
