KOLKATA:   to   informing them about the   Sending text messages and e-mails to flyers.

 Deploying extra personnel at airline counters to attend to every passenger Updating the airline websites with the ban and mentioning prohibited gadgets in detail
 
 These are some of the steps that the Gulf airli nes ferrying passengers from the city are taking following the Trump administration's restrictions on carry-on electronic devices on flights coming from select airports in West Asia and North Africa.
 
 The US announced on Tuesday that passengers flying into the country from 10 airports wouldn't be allowed to carry devices larger than a smartphone. Battery packs, power banks and spare batteries larger than 16cmx9.3cmx1.5cm cannot be carried neither as checked-in baggage, nor in the cabin.
 
 Dubai, Doha and Abu Dhabi are among the airports which fall under the ban.With no direct flight to US and Europe from the city , travellers heading west depend on Emirates, Etihad Airways and Qatar Airways together, which have stop overs in these airports.
 
 “We have updated the `Baggage' section in our website with the ban message clearly stating what items are prohibited as per the new norm. We have also alerted the travel agents and are kee ping extra personnel at the airport to assist every passenger,“ said an official of Qatar Airways in the city .
 
 An official at Emirates said they will ask each passenger in queue before the airline counter if they are travelling to the west and ask everyone to recheck their baggage to ensure their laptops and cameras are placed in the check-in baggage. “We are putting up a list of the newly banned items before the counter and would reach out to every traveller to ensure they are not carrying the banned items that can land them in trouble,“ said an official.
 
 But what if a passenger still carries the banned items, especially since the Kolkata airport has received no instruction to alert the passengers? “It is not our loo kout to ask every passenger which flight they are taking and alert them to not to carry the banned items. It is the airline's duty ,“ said airport director Atul Dikshit.
 
 Airline officials said if a passenger still carries the banned items, they will be alerted at the stopover point in Gulf.
 
 “If there is enough time, the passenger will be asked to submit the bag as check-in baggage and in case there is no such time or option, the items will be confiscated,“ the official said.
 
 City travel agents said that, to be on the safer side, they are asking each traveller not to take any chances and place the banned items with the check-in baggage at the time of packing.
 
 “The cancellation charge for a family of three runs into lakhs, which is difficult for most travellers to bear. Hence, for those who have no option but to travel in these airlines with tickets they had bought long ago, we are advising them to pack their laptops in the check-in baggage right from home. To secure their data, having a back up is advisable,“ said Anil Punjabi, chairman, east, Travel Agents Federation of India.
 
