JAIPUR: It was a day of high drama as students of both Maharani’s College and   (RU) took to the streets over the death of 18-year-old first-year BA student Komal Prajapat of Maharani’s College in her hostel room.

 The protests were triggered after the student’s father, Gulabchand Prajapat, registered an FIR with the   police late on Thursday night alleging that Komal was “murdered” and that she was “under pressure” from the warden and other senior students of the hostel.
 
 The day began with students of Maharani’s College staging a protest demanding that Komal’s family withdraw the FIR filed on Thursday. Students spilled on to   blocking the traffic.
 
 Soon, another group of students started protesting at the gates of RU in support of Komal’s family and seeking action against the administration of Maharani’s College.
 
 “Komal was struggling in studies. She had failed to also get an entry into any cricket academy. Due to these issues, she may have been under pressure and taken the extreme step. She never informed us about her personal problems,” said college principal Alpana Kateja at a press conference held in the evening.
 
 However, Dinesh, Komal’s brother-in-law, refuted the principal’s claims and alleged that the hostel warden, Komal’s roommate and senior students had been harassing her and that she had made numerous complaints to the college administration in vain.
 
 “She was a meritorious student and had secured high marks in her board exams. She had come home to our village during the recent Holi vacation and told us that her roommate was constantly troubling her. We had asked the warden to shift her to another room, but the request was declined,” he told TOI over the phone.
 
 Komal’s body was on Friday consigned to flames at her native village Sakun, Dudu. The autopsy report, according to police, pointed to death by hanging. “There are injury marks on her neck but none on her body. Though the report suggests death by hanging, we are investigating the case based on complaint made by the parents,” a senior police official told TOI.
 
 Police have also recovered a page from Komal’s register which they suspect to be the suicide note. “The note is torn in several places. We suspect it to be the suicide note as it says “I am Komal Prajapat”. It cannot be read fully. The page has been sent to FSL to check if it is indeed the suicide note,” police said.
 
 Family members of the girl, however, alleged that Komal was about five-feet tall and it was not possible for her to hang herself from the ceiling fan. “The roommate said she broke open the door and found Komal hanging. But what is puzzling is that how can a single girl break the heavy door of a hostel room,” Dinesh asked, adding they wanted a complete investigation into the case.
 
 
