What is the most self-satisfying thing you did for your birthday? Went on a trip with friends? Helped a few needy kids?   Barney Gatley did all of this and more. On a two-week-long vacation to India with his Indian-origin friend  , the 61-year-old sponsored the infrastructure of an entire residential civic school in Pimpri- Chinchwad, and also paid an injured woman’s hospital bills.

 Gatley and Kaur were putting up at the   by   in Chinchwad. It was his birthday on Tuesday, and the duo expressed a desire to help the people of the twin towns in their own small way to celebrate the occasion. The hotel’s manager, Akshaykumar Deore, suggested that they make a start with the Yashwantrao Ashram Shala at Gulvevasti, Bhosari MIDC.
 
 “I was shocked to see the school premises. There was zero infrastructure and the students were living in deplorable conditions. We spend almost half a day in the school.
 
 I met two girls and asked them what goodies they wanted — Was it toys, clothes, sweets or something else. They were rather shy and took time to open up. When they did, our eyes welled up. All they wanted were lights and fans, something that should be a basic fixture at any school,” shared 40-year-old Kaur.
 
 Gatley, who owns a company named BG Decorators, lives in the English town of Stockport. Kaur resides in Leicester and has worked in the fitness sector, with a varied interest in paramedical sciences as well. This was Gatley’s first visit to India and he was visibly aghast at the lack of basic amenities at the civic school. “It’s a residential school with two separate halls for girls and boys. But it is in a pathetic condition. They did have some beds and a few other facilities, but no fans. So, we purchased 10 ceiling fans for the hall and 120 litres of oil colour to paint the walls of the school. It was a rather gloomy place to be for kids, so we thought we should perk it up.”
 
 They have given a two-day deadline to the school to complete the painting and are constantly inspecting the quality of work done so far. Gatley has already made a rough plan about the school’s hostel and, if they stick to the deadline, they would offer further help. Kaur said they didn’t merely want to hand over a donation cheque and be done with it. They wanted to be part of the renovation process and behold the satisfaction in the children’s faces.
 
 “At present, we are planning to spruce up the dining and washing area, provide beds with a proper structure, as well as sporting facilities for these children. One good deed makes all the difference,” she said. And, it couldn’t be a better birthday present for Gatley. Both plan to visit Chinwand during Christmas as they want to see how developed the school has become and if it needs anything more. So, they want to complete all the work by November 2017.
 
 The friends have spent a total of Rs 16,000 for the school till now. And the school authorities couldn’t be more pleased with this windfall. “The Ashramshala is affiliated to the state’s social welfare department. But, it only runs on donations. There is 2.5 acres of land available here, but no infrastructure. The school houses 120 boys and 80 girls who have come from various parts of the state. The day scholars are here from 11am to 5 pm. There are a total of around 300 students. We have two 1,200 sq-ft halls and ten classrooms. The students mostly belong to tribal communities and come from an economically disadvantaged background. The Good Samaritans from UK discussed the school’s sorry state with us for a long time, noting down detailed information. We are really thankful to them,” schoolteacher Sharad Khopale told Mirror.
 
 After the school visit, Gatley and Kaur went to the Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial Hospital (YCMH) at Pimpri. There, they paid the hospital bill of the woman, who had been injured in an accident. YCMH medical officer Dr Manoj Deshmukh said, “The UK citizens expressed a wish to help the poor and needy. So, we sent them to Real Life Real People (RLRP), the hospital’s NGO.” And RLRP founder M A Hussain told them of someone who really needed help. “Sangeeta Baban Lokhande, a 48-year-old from Dehugaon area, had been admitted in the hospital for 20 days after she fell down in the bathroom and fractured her ankles. She and her husband work at a construction site and they did not have money to pay the medical bills. They have two children. We provided her meals during her stay and suggested her name to the authorities for a concession, after which she got discharged.”
 
 Gatley and Kaur paid Sangeeta’s bills and also arranged for her commute back home, a total of Rs 5,000. “Our guest had arranged for an ambulance for her from the hospital to her home, They also gave her cash. These two incidents got etched in their memory and touched a chord with us as well,” said hotel manager Deore.
 
