BHOPAL: Madhusudan Patidar, like most youngsters, is a man in a hurry. After becoming the youngest Indian to climb Mt   from the   (Tibet face), the 21-year-old is now aiming to be the youngest Indian to complete the ‘Seven Summit’ challenge.

 The Indore lad is off to Africa in September, to attempt the stunning Mt Kilimanjaro, the only snow-capped one on the Equator. He is following the Bass List — named after American climber Richard Bass who was the first to achieve this feat in 1985. Patidar will climb Mt. Denali in North America, Mt. Aconcagua in South Africa, Mt. Elbrus in Europe, Mt. Kosciuszko in Australia (instead of Punack Jaya) and Mt. Vinson in Antarctica. “I aim to conquering all these summits in a span of two years,” he told TOI on Tuesday. 
 
 Now in the final year of his BTech course, he draws inspiration from  , who once held the world record in completing the Seven Summits in just 172 days in 2006. Tragically, he died on the Andes in March 2015.
 
 For Patidar, the mountains are easier to tackle than the funds needed for the adventure. He had a hard time putting together the money for the Everest expedition and is now scraping together everything he can for the cross-continent adventure.
 
 Now in his fourth year B Tech, he says: “I have been conducting trekking and mountaineering activities for eight years. I underwent the basic mountaineering course from Jawahar Institute of Mountaineering in Kashmir in 2014, and took advance training at Himachal Mountaineering Institute in 2015.” His idea of de-stressing? “Rock climbing,” he says, with a grin.
 
 Patidar says that each of the 45 days of his Everest climb was the hardest of his life. The North Ridge is often said to be the tougher climb — it has certainly killed more climbers (36) than the more popular South Col route (15) between 2005 and 2015. 
 
 Surviving on chocolates, dry fruits, dry chicken, chicken soup and tea, he experienced the worst times when he saw his teammate die. “I was the only Indian in the group that started from the Everest base camp at Tibet at a height of 5,400 meters on April 7. One of my group mates,  , from Australia, died due to the climatic conditions and three returned halfway. Only three of the seven people who started could finish the climb,” he said.
 
 Patidar has been recognised as the Indian Brand Ambassador of World Adventure Society, Brazil, and coordinates adventure activities at the   organized by MP Tourism. His name is in the Limca Book Records for cycling 850km, Bangalore to Goa, in five days. Though he lost a finger to frostbite, his heart is in the mountains.
 
