BAMBOLIM: Both the morgues of Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital,  , are full to capacity, which is a perennial problem with the state’s premier government hospital given the delay in disposal of bodies by the police department. On Tuesday evening, one body was returned for want of cabinet.
 
  Moreover, only 28 of the 62 cabinets in the old morgue are in working condition. All 108 cabinets, mass casualty and body part sections at the new morgue are full.
  
  Together, both the morgues presently house 181 bodies, with some corpses stored since 2015.
  
  There is no place to accommodate new bodies and some bodies have been kept outside cabinets at the old morgue, a source said and added that most of the bodies belong to the police department. The Panaji police station, however, took away three of their four bodies after frequent requests by forensic department.
  
  Acting head of department of the forensic department, Dr Andre Fernandes, when contacted refused to comment on the space issue facing the mortuaries.
  
  SP South   said disposal of bodies in police custody has to follow procedure. “Let me look into the problem and see what can be done best to resolve the issue,” Chowdhary said.
  
  An official said the morgues at the GMC have been additionally burdened these last few months ever since the mortuary at Hospicio hospital stopped functioning. Now all bodies from Hospicio in need of preserving are being referred to GMC, because though the Mapusa district hospital has a morgue it has few cabinets.
  
  Another official shared that 35 bodies are from   town alone. There are two bodies from the Cuncoliem police station, three from the   railway station and one each from Mormugoa, Canacona and Quepem. Additionally, there are 40-odd unclaimed bodies of persons who died at the GMC.
  
  The disposal of hospital bodies is the responsibility of the hospital administration.
  
  There are also a few bodies of foreign nationals, including those whose identities have not been established. Two such bodies belong to the Anjuna police station.
  
  North Goa police stations that have preserved bodies at the GMC include Anjuna (4), Pernem (3), Agacaim (7), Mapusa (3), Old Goa (4), Ponda (5), and one each for Calangute, Valpoi and Panaji.
