When 22-year-old Riya, a college dropout, applied to three firms in the city for a job of an office assistant, it was not just rejection that she had to deal with — her gender seemed to have come with a character certificate. For the young transwoman it initially came as a shock, but she realised that it was a reality that many in the LGBT community face on a day-to-day basis and have thus come to take it in their stride. 

 "I cannot afford to be bogged down by what people think. I have to realise my dreams and move on," says Riya, who scored 462 out of 500 in her Class X board exams. Born a boy, her inner turmoil and squabbles at home led her to give up academics. Today she wants to look ahead and is part of a group of six transwomen who want to reclaim their lives. Enrolled for a beautician’s course at VLCC, Chennai, they are trying to raise funds to pay a part of their fee through crowdfunding website  . 
 
 Helping them is Swetha, founder of Born2Win Social Welfare Trust, an NGO that works towards the empowerment of members of the transgender community in the state by facilitating education and   opportunities for them. "I want to create education and employment opportunities for  , especially for those who are not accepted by their families and forced to beg or walk the streets," says Swetha, who was born Sudhakar. 
 
 Through her NGO she has helped some to pursue a course in fashion designing, trained a few others as taxi drivers and is now gearing up to open a beauty parlour, but needs funding. "We have paid nearly `2,04,000 as the initial fee for the six candidates and have to pay an outstanding amount of `1,80,000. The course is due to complete by the end of July and the balance amount needs to be paid to get the completion certificate," says Swetha. Though the institution has provided a concession of 20% the fee is still too steep for them.
 
 Swetha who made it a point to complete her masters in sociology says most transwomen with little financial backing and family support find it difficult to plan a professional future. 
 
 While Riya has been taken in by her parents, Shana G, another transwoman, has found refuge only through Swetha. "I was studying BCA but was teased at college for my effeminate nature. It was difficult at home too as I come from a small town like Salem," she says. "I travelled across the country but after my sex reassignment surgery I ended up begging, was abused and did things I am not proud of. I don’t want to look back and this is my chance," says the 24-year-old.
 
 The campaign is on till July 31 to contribute log on to https://milaap.org/fundraisers/born2win
 
