HYDERABAD: A class XII  , Bachupally, Chandni Jain, who had gone missing after leaving her home at Miyapur on Saturday , was found murdered in the bushes at an isolated place in   on Monday night. On Tuesday night, police found a vital clue in the form of a CCTV footage, showing her getting down from an auto with a boy at Ameenpur.

 17-year-old Chandni was the daughter of a watch import and export businessman, Kishore Kumar Jain. At about 5 pm on Saturday , she left her house at   in Deeptisri Nagar, Miyapur.
 
 “At 5 pm Chandni left the house telling me that she had to meet friends. When we tried to contact her at 6 pm, her phone was not reachable. When we called up her friends they said that Chandni did not meet them. At 12.30 am, we went to the police station and lodged a complaint,“ Chandni's elder sister Nivedita said.
 
 Nivedita, who is pursuing degree final year at a private college, told the media that they came to know about   on Monday night. “We do not have problems with anyone. We suspect that someone has planned and killed my sister,“ Nivedita said. Chandni's mother Kavita Jain said that she could not understand why someone would kill her daughter who was very friendly. “Can't women move freely in this society? Are the parents teaching their sons to kill women? I want police to arrest my daughter's killers and they should also meet the same fate,“ Kavita said.
 
 Workers of a construction firm, who were assailed by a foul smell from the bushes, found the body. They alerted Ameenpur police around 5 pm on Monday . With the help of victim's family ,   identified the body . The top of the victim was found next to the body but the rest of her clothes were intact.
 
 Cyberabad commissioner Sandeep Shandilya visited the spot on Monday night. “We have registered a kidnap case af ter the complaint was lodged.There were no external injuries and, prima facie there seems to be no sexual assault. We are awaiting post-mortem report,“ he told TOI. “The tongue of the victim slightly stuck out. We have registered a murder case,“ Sangareddy SP S Chandrasekhar Reddy told TOI.
 
 A forensic expert of   said that they could not ascertain the exact cause of death due to the body's decomposed condition.“We have sent viscera, hyiod bone, blood, hair and nail samples to FSL for analysis. This does not appear like a suicide,“ said the doctor. Cyberabad police formed eight special teams to solve the case. “In a CCTV footage, the victim was seen getting down from an auto at Ameenpur with a guy on Saturday evening and walking towards the spot where she was found,“ a police source said. Cops questioned two suspects.
 
