PATNA: Of the 10 city schools that participated in the Ninth Brother Raymond Memorial Interschool Painting Contest on   campus on Tuesday, the students of  , St Michael’s High School, Loyola High School and International School   in different categories.

 The contest was adjudged by College of Arts & Crafts’ assistant professor Dr Ajay Kumar Panday and painter Sanyasi Red. Loyola principal Brother Satheesh K Don, vice-principal Brother Herman Ekka and art teacher Satyajit Jacob distributed trophies and painting kits among the winners.
 
 Refresher course: Patna University (PU) vice-chancellor (VC) Ras Bihari Prasad Singh and pro-VC Dolly Sinha inaugurated the Eleventh Refresher Course on IT and E-learning at Magadh Mahila College (MMC) on Tuesday. The event was organized by the college’s computer application department in collaboration with the UGC-Human Resource Development Centre (HRDC), PU.
 
 While Dolly Sinha talked about ensuring quality education to students, UGC-HRDC director Dr Chandrama Singh highlighted the relevance of IT and its application in higher education.
 
 College principal Dharmsheela Prasad said the aim of the 21-day course is to create awareness about new and emerging information and communication technologies. Over 30 teachers got themselves registered for the programme.
 
 Champaran Satyagrah: Students of Raza International Girls’ School took part in drawing, quiz, poster-making and slogan-writing contests on Tuesday to mark the centenary of the  
 
 Principal Shahina Khan said the country could progress only by following the ideals of Mahatma Gandhi. School chairman Tarique Raza Khan and teachers were also present on the occasion.
 
 National workshop: A two-day   organized by Patna Women’s College on ‘Arsenic Knowledge and Action Network’ concluded on Tuesday. 
 
 Over 50 experts from Hyderabad, West Bengal, Karnataka, Delhi, Assam and Jharkhand highlighted the problems due to the consumption of contaminated water in India, especially Bihar.
 
