DADRI: A few immediate family members of  , who was lynched over allegations of cow slaughter on September 28, 2015, did not vote in the first assembly election after his death in Bisada on Saturday as they are now registered voters in Delhi, according to Jaan Mohammad, brother of Akhlaq.

 Jaan Mohammad, who works in Dadri and also has a house there, and another brother of his voted in Dadri. “My brother Afzaal and I are based in Dadri. We voted in our respective booths. Another brother, Jameel, and his family voted in Loni where they live,” he said.
 
 Jaan Mohammad said that Akhlaq’s family had moved to Delhi. “Akhlaq’s elder son Sartaj is at present posted in Chennai and has voted through a ballot paper. I was told that the other family members of Akhlaq have got their names registered as voters in Delhi,” he said.
 
 Bisada village, meanwhile, witnessed a peaceful poll process as residents cast their votes at booths located in Rana Sangram Singh Inter College. Members of different communities visited the booths to cast their ballot amid heavy deployment of security personnel.
 
 Bisada village is among the 36 critical polling booths across the three assembly constituencies of Noida, Jewar and Dadri. The district administration this time made Bisada a model polling booth and rolled out green carpets for the 6,600 voters. Elaborate sitting arrangements were made for the voters in the polling centre with chairs, sofas and tents. A team of para-military force and civil police were deployed. 
 
 The security personnel guided the voters to their respective booths and helped physically challenged and elderly people. Senior citizen Rajvir Singh (80), a retired school teacher, flashed his inked finger after casting his vote. 
 
 Election Commission officials and police officers camped around the polling centre in Bisada. The district magistrate N P Singh and superintendent of police (rural) Sujata Singh also visited the booths. Sujata Singh said that the poll process was completely smooth and peaceful.
 
 
