MUMBAI: Friends and relatives are mourning the death of Bandra builder and film producer Abis Rizvi (49) and fashion designer Khushi Shah (27) in the   at the weekend. For the Rizvi family, it was the second loss of a young life in recent years. Abis was the son of well-known builder and educationist Akhtar Hasan Rizvi, whose younger son, Saquib, died of cancer six years ago. 

 Apart from being a successful builder, Abis was also a producer and his last release was ‘Roar: Tigers of Sunderban’ in 2014. “He was so full of life and energetic. It is difficult to believe he is no more,” a family member said.
 
 Abis is to be buried in Rahmatabad cemetry, Mazgaon, on Wednesday. “His father, Akhtar Hasan Rizvi, left for   on Sunday to claim and bring his body. Abis will be buried at Rahmatabad qabrastan at 3 pm on January 4,” another family member said. “It is an indescribable loss for the Rizvi family, which is in deep grief. Abis’s mother and wife are in deep shock while six-year-old son has not been told about the death of his father. Abis’s sister is married and settled in the US. Perhaps she will join her father to bring back Abis’s body to Mumbai.”
 
 Abis and Khushi were among the 39 people killed by a gunman an hour into the New Year at the Reina nightclub.
 
 Khushi was on the verge of pursuing a career facing the arc lights before her life was cut short. The young woman who defined herself as a “Delightfully Devilish Damsel, Delivering Divine Designs” on social media had spent most of October in Dubai shooting for a music video, her first assignment as a model. “We spoke around four days before the New Year. She was nervous about the video since it was her first such attempt and wanted to see it before its release in January. I was travelling to Goa too so I told her that I’d show it to her once I returned. I feel terrible about it now,” said Aziz Zee, an old friend of Khushi’s who had directed her in the video. “She was soft-spoken, very ambitious and sincere. She had recently started talking to people and meeting them about her career prospects as an actor and model,” he said.
 
 Khushi, who completed her graduate studies in Fashion and Apparel Design and Marketing from the   in 2010, had made the city her home almost six years ago when she came up with her own label Khushi Z and a store that was launched by actor Arbaaz Khan. She later joined the league of sought-after designers, showing her fashion line at the Wills Lifestyle Fashion Week.
 
 Khushi lived by herself on   where she also had her boutique. She was known for her designs in women’s gown and eveningwear and had recently launched No|BS, a men’s line with a fresh take on corporate wear in April. She had found patrons in actor R   and  , who she had styled for public events.
 
 “Shocked to hear my dear friend and designer @KHUSHIZ1 died in the Istanbul attack #RIP what horrible news to start the year! Condolences,” tweeted Kundra, which was retweeted by his wife Shilpa Shetty, who added: “Life is so unpredictable… my heart goes out to the families that have lost their near and dear ones RIP @KHUSHIZ1.”
 
 
