Dharmapuri: A 25-year-old man died of burn injuries at the government hospital in Dharmapuri on Thursday after he set himself on fire when revenue officials came to evict his family from an encroached government land at Pikkili village in Pennagaram taluk. 

 A farmhand, G Durai doused himself with kerosene in front of Pennagaram tahsildar Sethu Lingam and other revenue officials when they attempted to evict his family members from the encroached land at Pikki village. 
 
 Before the officials could catch hold of the matchbox from Durai, he set himself on fire by lighting a matchstick. Though officials and villagers tried to put off the fire, Durai sustained 70% burn injuries. He was rushed to the Dharmapuri government medical college hospital for treatment. “But he succumbed to burn injuries at the hospital,” the Pennagaram police said.
 
 Durai’s father Gopal was engaged in farming activities in the encroached land located near a burial ground for many years. The villagers have been demanding the district administration to lay an approach road to reach the burial ground.
 
 Followed by repeated petitions by the villagers, district collector S Vivekanandhan directed Sethu Lingam to inspect and recover encroached government land to lay the approach road for the burial ground. 
 
 Based on collector's direction, the tahsildar went to Pikkili village a few days ago and inspected Gopal’s land. The tahsildar ordered Gopal to vacate the land at the earliest. But Gopal and his family members refused to vacate the land. 
 
 On Thursday, the tahsildar went to Pikkili village with other revenue officials to carry out eviction drive. When the officials tried to carry out the drive, Durai immolated himself and died in the hospital. 
 
 Meanwhile, Durai’s brother G Raman demanded the district administration to take action against tahsildar and other revenue officials. 
 
 "We will not receive the body until the district administration initiated action against the errant officials,” Raman said. 
 
 
