CHANDIGARH: PHD Chamber has suggested that subsidies worth Rs 9,000 crore given to the Punjab farmers towards free electricity, water and irrigation, and procurement expenditure should be taken into account when deciding minimum support price ( ) of farm produce. The suggestion is sure to spark a debate in the state, since free power and other subsidies have been long been emotive issues in Punjab. In the run up to the state assembly elections, the   was even forced to clarify after SAD’s charges that the party wanted to stop free power to farmers.

 Adviser (economic sector) to   and Industry   Kochar told TOI that there was need to “re-evaluate the real benefits to farmers due to agriculture subsidies of approximately Rs 9,000 crore being budgeted towards free electricity, water, and procurement expenditure, considering the fact that this amount is not taken into account while calculating MSP for procurement under public distribution system (PDS).”
 
 He also suggested that direct transfer to the account of farmers towards payment of actual cost of electricity and water would engineer efficient use of resources and also save approximately Rs 2,000 crore every year to the exchequer. These costs would then get factored into the calculation of MSP, he added.
 
 “It is recommended that a committee be constituted to estimate the current value of total loss on this account till date. The committee should also recommend the measures to be taken for submission of claim to the Union government on this account,” Kochar said.
 
 As part of the plan titled, ‘Rebooting state finances for a debt free Punjab by 2025’, Kochar said under the new GST regime, paddy and wheat will be classified as zero-rated commodity. “It would deprive Punjab of its capacity to raise revenue from its main produce. Coal, cotton and many other commodities are classified taxable under different rates. Punjab must seek compensation for this loss amounting to more than a few thousand of crores of rupees,” he said.
 
 “Punjab, now needs to focus on offering liberal incentives for setting up mega wheat processing plants of minimum capacity of 4,800 Mts per day. Five such plants near the main mandis will ensure stability of wheat-agri economy and the processed wheat sold in branded packaging would generate GST revenue for the state,” he said.
 
 PHD Chamber has also suggested that Punjab should take a lead in focusing on making rural infrastructure smart.
 
