PANAJI: Reeling under criticism for polluting the villages and putting lives at risk,   companies have asked the state government to construct the second phase of the dedicated mining   first. Of the three phases of the proposed mining corridor, Goa Mineral   Exporters’ Association (GMOEA) wants the phase II stretching from Guddemol to Capxem to be constructed first. The first phase for ore transportation is in the Quepem-Sanguem mining belt.

 “The volume of ore transportation through phase-I will only be around 1.2 million tonne per annum for the next six years. The bulk of the volume will be in phase-II. The phase-II project should be given priority and the construction should be started in earnest,” GMOEA told the government.
 
 With dust pollution, fatal road accidents and vehicular movement through the villages of the mining belt, there has been a demand for construction of dedicated mining corridor for the trucks to transport ore.
 
 Though proposals for three phases of dedicated mining corridor for vehicular movement have been pending with the government for long, it has continued to remain on the drawing board with the state yet to firm up funding plans for its construction.
 
 The government has an estimated budget of over Rs 115 crore for the first phase and Rs 111 crore for the second.
 
 The first phase of the mining corridor is proposed between Uguem and Guddemol, having a stretch of around 8.9km, and the second phase between Guddemol and Capxem with a stretch of 8.4km.
 
 The government has also proposed the third phase of around 32km stretch between Cavrem and Uguem.
 
 A senior officer from the directorate of mines and geology (DMG) said no work had started on the third phase of the mining corridor. Mining sources also said the mining trade body wanted a small change in alignment of the second phase.
 
 The state government is exploring three options to fund the long-pending construction of a dedicated mining corridor for ore transportation. The first option is to have the mining companies to fund the project, the second is for the government to outsource it to a private player to construct the corridor and the third is the government itself funding the entire project.
 
