New Delhi: “There is 9,000 tonnes of garbage  .. Where is the   (to dump).. Nobody is even visualising where it will be dumped... You need to work on a war footing...” the Delhi high court told the municipal corporations while hearing a suo motu case regarding garbage dumps leading to dengue and other vector-borne diseases.

 The court had earlier noted that lack of waste disposal was contributing to spread of vector-borne diseases like dengue and chikungunya and had directed the civic bodies to ensure garbage removal and cleanliness in the city.
 
 Acting Chief Justice Gita Mittal and Justice C Hari Shankar said that much more needed to be done and enquired if there was a mobile system in place to track presence of safai karmacharis on the ground. The court also suggested that citizens could appoint a committee under the supervision of subdivisional magistrates, who cannot be “won over”. 
 
 The court was hearing a petition filed by advocate Arpit Bhargava, who submitted that cases of dengue and chikangunya were being under-reported by the municipal corporations.
 
 Following the court’s June 28 directions, the three municipal corporations filed their respective status reports over various issues in their zones. 
 
 While South   claimed that it had taken action against 70 of its “delinquent” officials who displayed “laxity”, the north civic body said it had installed 2,000 dustbins of 100-litre capacity. “Apart from this, there is a proposal to further procure of 6,000 twin bins to collect waste by public,” the north corporation said.
 
 The east corporation, meanwhile, claimed to have reinforced a team of 32 officer to check the presence of safai karmacharis on ground.
 
 All three corporations maintained that the water pumping stations in their areas, 69 in total, were being manned round-the-clock to drain out storm or rain water.
 
 The court had earlier directed the civic bodies to file an affidavit indicating disciplinary action taken for the acts and omissions by its officials.  , which is looking into preventive steps needed against mosquito breeding before monsoon, also asked the corporations to submit an action plan for prevention and control of vector-borne diseases.
 
 Additional Solicitor General  , representing the corporations, had informed the court that a host of reasons, such as over population, illegal constructions and constant tussle among various agencies led to piling of garbage.
 
