HYDERABAD: Police are on `Mission Rukhsar' to bring back the 16-year-old victim from Oman.Rukhsarunissa alias   was married off to a 64-year-old Omani sheikh four months ago and police, through the ministry of external affairs ( ), are trying their best to bring back the girl as the sheikh is claiming that his wife is an adult.

 It was the FIR lodged by Rukhsar's parents at Falaknuma police station in August that finally led investigators to the Mumbai chief qazi's den at Bhendi Bazar and he was arrested on Tuesday .
 
 Rukhsarunnisa, daughter of Md Afsar and Afzul Begum alias Sayeedunnisa of NS Kunta in Falaknuma, had married Omani sheikh Ahmed Khalid Abdullah at Errakunta in Pahadesharif on May 16, 2017.
 
 City-based naib qazi Habeeb Ali solemnised the nikah. The marriage proposal was brought by broker Sikader and his wife Ghousia. “Ghousia is the sister of the girl's father,“ DCP, South Zone, V Satyanarayana said.
 
 Sikander and Ghousia were arrested and sent to prison on Wednesday . As Rukhsarunnia was 16, the broker, in connivance with the girl's family , made an affidavit stating her age as 24 to perform the nikah.
 
 Abdullah gave about Rs 2 lakh to Sikander and Ghousia, which was supposed to be passed on to the girl's family . But, the couple gave a scooter, a cooler and Rs 5000 cash to the girl's father Afsar. On realising they were duped, her parents lodged a complaint with Falaknuma police.When police initiated the process of bringing back Rukhsar with the help of MEA, Abdullah went to the Indian mission in Oman and, by showing her passport, claimed he married a 24-year-old woman. Cops then went to the school at NS Kunta where Rukhsar studied and got a bonafide certificate stating that her date of birth was August 18, 1998. Police also collected the marriage certificate of Sayeedunnisa and Afsar from wakf board.
 
 “We have sent the evidence to the Indian diplomatic mission in Oman to prove Rukhsar is a minor. We are trying to bring her back home,“ ACP , Falaknuma, Md Tajuddin Ahmed said. Also, police were identifying brokers who facilitate sham marriages and start an awareness campaign in schools and colleges in the Old City.
 
