These Hyderabadi women walk all over society’s stereotypes of beauty, and how!

 At 4’11” she’s sexy and she knows it
 I used to be a person who was really conscious about my height. My friends would comment on tall girls saying, ‘Wow! She’s so tall!” or “Check out her legs’. But nobody says, ‘Wow! She’s so short!’ But then I reached a point where I just accepted myself just the way I am. I love this quote — ‘Be your own kind of beautiful’. And that’s so true because we’re all beautiful in our own unique way. Ever since, I’ve been so comfortable about myself. And hey, the world needs short people too! Dynamites come in small packages!
 —  , fashion marketer 
 
 Skinny is not her kinda sexy... 
 Ever since I was a teenager, I have been plump. Initially, I was under pressure to lose weight. But eventually, I stopped caring much about how chubby I am, and started focussing on being healthy. After winning Hyderabad Times Fresh Face, I’ve been doing a lot of fashion shows and now, people tell me, ‘now that you are doing shows, you should probably lose some weight’. But I’m not going to go on crazy diets and compromise my health. I know some people think skinny is hot, but I think ‘fit’ is better. 
 —  , Winner of Hyderabad Times Fresh Face 
 
 She swapped her lush, long locks for a pixie cut, cos, ‘Why not?’ 
 I had really long curls until three years back and people loved it. But it was a lot of maintenance and it just wasn’t who I am inherently as a person. The long curls gave off this cute little girl impression of me, when in reality, I am more like a naughty spirit. So I went for a short pixie cut, and everybody was like ‘Oh my God! You chopped off your beautiful hair?” Even my father questioned me about it. But then maybe he’s from a generation that saw beauty differently. Our perception of beauty needs to evolve as time goes on.
 —  , musician 
 
 She can flex muscles like a boss!
 I’ve been into body building since 2007 and it’s been almost a decade now, but looks like people haven’t gotten used it. A lot of people are scared of me, thanks to my ‘muscular body’, and most of them don’t have the guts to tell it to my face, but they criticise me behind my back for the kind of clothes I wear or how ‘big’ I look. Some tell me, ‘auratein muscular body nahi rakhti’. I tell them, ‘mujhe bolne se pehle tum body banalo, fir baat karna’. I know how to protect myself and what to wear and what not to. Duniya jae bhaad mein. Logoki nazre utli hi rahegi, but mujhe farak nai padta. I’m proud of myself. 
 —  , body builder
 
 Feminine? Nah! she loves to wear the pants
 I was never comfortable in feminine clothes. But when growing up I had to discard my shirts and pants because I was tired of statements like ‘Are you a girl or a guy’. In college, I had to force myself into salwar suits. But once I was done with college, I started wearing what I want. What makes you comfortable is what makes you beautiful. clothes are like your second skin, they should exude your confidence. I dress androgenously, and I feel no less beautiful than any girl in a saree or a cocktail dress.
 —  , financial adviser
 
 She’d rather be called dark n’ lovely
 As a child I was teased, taunted and bullied for my dark skin, in my village. unfortunately, most of it came from my family, who’d say, ‘Study and get a job so that you can get married...’ But when I moved to Hyderabad, life changed. ‘Dark’ became ‘dusky’ and ‘sexy’. People are much more broad-minded here. Dark skin is not something that’s looked down upon. as my career started flourishing, I became more confident and comfortable in my skin. I wear my skin with pride now. I am still dark, but I am beautiful.
 —  , entrepreneur
 
 
