If there is one strong trend that will rule the runway as well as the stores this year— it’s edgy glam. Experts in the fashion industry predict that the be-yourself, personality-oriented look is going to be a rage in 2017. We spoke to top fashion designers and style gurus to decipher the looks to look our for...

 
 
 With the wedding season in full swing, Indian wear is much in demand. Renowned designer   tells us, “People are slowly moving away from traditional colours and opting for lighter, fresher hues like pastels, minty green and zesty orange that add brightness to the overall look. Though lehengas remain a favourite, the focus has shifted from heavily embellished garments to minimalist and comfortable ones.” 
 She adds, “Rich, opulent shades of champagne gold are a stand out this season.” This hue adds a subtle luxury to not just lehengas, cholis and saris, but palazzo pants as well. 
 
 
 
 Not just our FB walls and insta feeds, our wardrobes are also hearting the cute cats and funny dogs. Fashion designer   says, “Sport quirky animal caricatures in crafty forms — appliqués, prints or painted and embroidered styles — of your dog, cat, hedgehog, hamster, etc. It is time to bring back the cute in fashion.”
 
 
 
 Light layers in breathable and natural fabrics can be a great way to beat the heat during summer. Devangi Nishar Parekh, owner of a boutique store, suggests, “Throw on a long, asymmetrical jacket over a tunic and palazzos for instant chic.” In 2017, layering with anti-fit separates will be a round-the-clock trend. Ritu adds, “Asymmetrical cuts remain popular this year. Its playful nature adds fun and cheerfulness to a look, and saves it from becoming too heavy or overdone.”
 
 
 
 Sleeves with slits will be hot. Exaggerated sleeves is a carry-over trend from 2016, say designers. Devangi adds, “Floor-length sleeves on a lehenga blouse, ruffled sleeved tops that can be worn over jeans and LBDs with oversized structured sleeves — these are easy ways to dress up without any fuss.”
 
 
 
 These make for perfect accents on handbags, dress hems and dupattas, and can be uber-chic when done right. Devangi says, “Be it in leather, suede or denim, this boho trend can add dimension and texture to a plain outfit, and is a new way to spruce up a bleak look.”
 
 
 
 Slogan tees were big last year and this year, they have transformed into one-word wonders in the graphic genre. Think about a single word that defines you and flaunt it on your dress. Bold, bright and embroidered statement words on shirts have got the thumbs up from designers. 
 
 
 
 As the nostalgic 80s makes a comeback post the grunge 90s, it’s time to channel super girly staples. Think of lovely lady-like details, like tie-up bows, XXL frills, lace and tulle in ultra feminine pastels, duck-egg blues, macaroon pinks and laguna greens. Maximalism is here to stay, so make the most of it. Designer Shehla Khan says, “In 2017, the look will be feminine but more sultry, with bolder silhouettes and soft, nude tones.”
 
 
 
 Like yellow? This year will see numerous shades of this colour and you are bound to find an option that is perfect for you. Aniket says, “A bold dose of sunshine yellow can transform your regular summer wardrobe into a bundle of joy. Go for bright marigold, daffodil and sunflower yellow or just dabble with subtle butterscotch or lemon for a similar positive effect. Yellow perfectly compliments the luminous Indian olive skin.” 
 
 
 
 Raid your man’s wardrobe and pull out the crispiest formal shirt for the perfect start to a fresh new year. “Pinstripes, banker stripes and stars as prints will be in focus this years,” says designer  . Aniket adds, “The staple menswear fabric makes its renewed debut in women’s wardrobe with a sleek new bent. Think cool French girl in oversized clothes — mend yourself boyfriend shirt dresses or simply craft a glove-fitted shift dress for a summer luncheon.” 
 
 
 
 Designer   of Shantanu-Nikhil duo says, “Men’s fashion has taken a whole new turn to the contemporary as it takes cue from India in all its grandeur. Right from the bandgala and Nehru jackets to kurtas — everything has become more contemporary than ever before. Colours this year will see a lot of monotones — black, white, grey and coal. Silhouettes will be slightly shorter in length. Details in laser-cut leather and tonal embroidery will highlight the shape.” 
 Designer Kunal Rawal adds, “Detailing and design will be the mainstay of menswear this year. Menswear will no longer be clean and simple. A lot of detailing will be added and clothes will be high on design.”
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
