BHOPAL: The state government on Monday filed an affidavit before the central bench of National Green Tribunal ( ) that the culmination ceremony of   Seva Yatra at Amarkantak on May 15 is not a religious occasion, so “no one will be allowed to take a holy dip in the river during or after the event”. 

 The Anuppur district administration gave it in writing to the green bench that people will not be allowed into the river. “We will be issuing an advisory and announcements will be made to this effect,” the bench was told.
 
 Earlier, the government had verbally submitted before the court that 1.5 lakh people would take part in culmination ceremony, and not 5 lakh as announced on various platforms earlier. However, in the written response on Monday, the government did not mention any crowd count.
 
 The government said it is building 1,100 temporary toilets for the Amarkantak event, and 150 mobile toilets and 1,500 urinals have been temporarily installed. No food will be prepared in Amarkantak and all preparations have been made to clear the estimated 50 metric tonnes solid waste expected to be generated between May 11 and May 18. Judicial member justice Dalip Singh and expert member Satyawan Singh Garbyal directed officials to monitor the quality of water regularly and present it before the court. 
 
 Replying to the green panel queries, the state government said that 1,000 toilets are being built along the riverbanks to end open defecation. Half of them are ready and tenders have been floated for the rest, it said. Also ‘kunds’ have been created for puja offerings so that people do not throw them in the river. Cremation sheds will be provided to all panchayats along the riverbanks to end the practice of burning bodies along the river side and throwing half-burnt bodies into the river, the government said.
 
 A scheme for Sewerage Treatment Plants (STPs) at Amarkantak has sent to the World Bank for grant, which is likely to be cleared within next few days, the government said, adding that on July 2, 5 crore saplings will be planted in a massive plantation drive on the Narmada basin. The next hearing is on May 27.
 
 The NGT is hearing a petition filed by local resident  , complaining that the government is violating environmental norms on the banks of Narmada near Amarkantak, the origin of the river. 
 
