PATNA: Bihar’s minority welfare minister   on Monday said he would not hesitate to meet former RJD MP   in Tihar jail whenever he visits Delhi in near future.

 A photograph showing Ghafoor and a former RJD MLA meeting Shahabuddin inside Siwan jail had gone viral in March last year. The photograph had triggered a debate whether a cabinet minister’s meeting with a convicted prisoner inside the jail is ethical. 
 
 “I will definitely call on him (Shahabuddin) whenever I visit Delhi. Will let you people know,” Ghafoor said on the sidelines of Bihar CM Nitish Kumar’s weekly ‘Lok Samvad’ programme here on Monday.
 
 The minister also asked reporters what was wrong if a political person visited his party’s former MP in jail. Shahabuddin is still the national executive member of RJD led by Lalu Prasad. 
 
 On being asked if Shahabuddin calling Nitish “a CM of circumstances” while coming out of Bhagalpur jail had annoyed the state machinery against him, Ghafoor promptly disapproved Shahabuddin’s remarks and said, “Nitish Kumar JI deserved to be the CM in true sense of the term.”
 
 The minister also denied any partial role of Bihar government in Shahabuddin-related judicial matters. He said, the Siwan strongman was recently transferred to Tihar jail at the Supreme Court’s directive. “Bihar government moved the apex court not only in Shahabuddin’s case but also in many other cases, including those of expelled RJD MLA Rajballabh Yadav, expelled MP Pappu Yadav, BJP MLC   and Gaya road rage case accused Rocky Yadav,” the minister argued.
 
 On being asked about the controversial photograph showing him with Shahabuddin and having snacks inside Siwan jail, Ghafoor reiterated there was nothing wrong in that after procuring necessary permission from the jail authorities concerned.
 
 The minister evaded a direct reply on being asked whether RJD should remove Shahabuddin from its national executive after his conviction in some murder cases. “His wife Heena Shahab had contested the Lok Sabha election from Siwan on RJD symbol. She is still with the party,” the minister said.
 
