NAGPUR: The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) in April predicted a near normal monsoon this year in the country and two days back changed it to above average.

 This tallies with observations of   from  , who has been predicting the monsoon based on the different types of nests made by weaver ants on trees for past 14 years. He says monsoon is expected to be normal (96% of average) for the region. However, it is expected to be delayed by 5-10 days and will cover Nagpur only by June 15-20. He has also predicted erratic rains in the region with some districts receiving more and some less than normal.
 
 “Two types of nests are seen this time. Grey leaves indicate nest is built about seven days back and the monsoon is always three to four weeks from the time the ants’ start their activity of making nests. I have also observed nest building during April 15-20, which indicates that Nagpur will experience pre-monsoon rains around May 20-25 2017,”   told TOI.
 
 The samosa shapes, triangular nests of green leaves indicate nests are new and indicate monsoon preparedness. Bagchi says with changing pattern of nests from last few years it is becoming more difficult to predict accurately. “From last three years, I have observed the monsoon dates are more than one month from the dates of starting of nest making compared to earlier three weeks, but pre-monsoon showers start after three weeks of nest building,” he said.
 
 The director general of IMD K J Ramesh, as per a Reuters report dated May 9, has said the earlier prediction was based on El Nino effect seen at that time. Now with easing of the El-Nino effect, the monsoon could be slightly better.
 
 Skymet, a private weather forecasting agency, however this year has claimed the monsoon would be below normal (with an error margin of +/-5%) of the long period average (LPA) that is about 887mm of rain from June to September.
 
 Bagchi thinks monsoon will be around 850-900mm (considering average 850 for the last 10 years, except 2013) for Nagpur, but as far as Vidarbha is concerned, cumulative rain will be excess in some places and excess in others.
 
