Four years ago, started a wonderful dream; a dream that all girls see; to meet someone who would make their life beautiful. But for me, that dream turned into a nightmare. I got married four years ago, only to get divorced within four months of my marriage.
 
  Yes, my fantasy, my dream of “living happily ever after” was shattered. The dream was crushed and so was I. It really seemed as if the world ended for me. Being brought up in a conservative family with so much value given to customs and traditions; divorce was never seen as an option. But it happened. After four months of mental trauma of staying in that marriage, I took the decision of getting separated from my so-called husband. It was a tough one to make; or I should rather say- the toughest decision of my life.
  
  When I decided to make the move, I was not having the slightest hint of what was about to follow. For me, those four months were so terrible that I could not even think of what I had invited at my door step. It all started with being homeless for days to fighting cases alone in the court at the age of 23. It seemed like life had suddenly taken a U-turn. A topper throughout my life, I was being made to taste failure by my destiny. From answering the weirdest questions of the lawyers and judges to working hard in office, life was becoming difficult with each passing day.
  
  Finally, after a long fight of about two years, I was given justice; justice but with a tag that read ‘divorced’.
  
  And from there on, the real struggle began; the struggle to prove to the society that it is better to end some relationships than to drag them; the struggle to prove that being divorced was not a disease, but a choice to make life better. Easier said than done, I failed miserably at this too. My ex-husband didn’t take even a year to get married again and he managed to rope in a girl very easily. Taking a bold step, I treated this life as be my second birth and decided to rise from the ashes. I went for higher studies, and did extremely well there too. I was of the opinion, that my success would talk for me and soon I would make my parents proud of me again. What I was unaware of was the fact that our society will never accept people like me, no matter how successful we become.
  
  Today, even after achieving success in my professional life and being a person with high moral values, I am still looked down upon by many. The so-called respectable people of the society consider me to be an untouchable. Although, I wish to forget my past, but they still keep reminding me of it, as if I have committed a sin or a crime. Now, I want to move ahead in life, but even if I wish to marry a man of my own choice, the society would never let that happen. The reason is simple- I’ve been dubbed “second-hand”.
  
  At the end, the question still remains the same. Will I ever be treated as a normal person, who has her own set of dreams and wishes? Will I ever get my lost respect back? Will there ever be a day, when I will not be treated as an  ?
  
  
  
