CHANDIGARH: Punjab goes to polls on Sunday amidst an unprecedented security cover of over one lakh security personnel ensuring safety of more than 1.98 crore voters who will decide the fate of 1,145 candidates in the fray at 117 constituencies.

 The assembly elections for the first time is witnessing a triangular fight with   (AAP) as a new entrant besides the Congress and   (SAD). It also has many other firsts – voter-verified paper audit trail (VVPAT), electronic machines (EVMs) are being used for the first time in 33 constituencies, there are record seizures of drugs, liquor, cash and other items worth Rs 80 crore and 96% of weapons in the state have been deposited with local authorities. For the first time 45,000 police personnel gave option to exercise postal ballot and 45% of them have already cast their ballot.
 
 Voting would start at 8am and would go on till 5pm. The   has identified 5,500 vulnerable and 786 critical polling stations and 23 constituencies have been declared sensitive based on the reports of observers. Over 6 lakh first-time voters would cast ballot this time and all district administrations are taking adequate steps to motivate first time voters including honouring them with certificates and mementos.
 
 Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) VK Singh said 14,177 polling stations have been established and 31,460 EVMs are being used in this election. 
 
 Asked about glitches in some EVMs, Singh said a team of engineers had been called in to rectify the technical errors. “However, the VVPAT machines are brand new,” he said.
 
 VK Bhawra ADGP (election) added that over 1 lakh police personnel will be deployed throughout the state and Police parties would conduct thorough search to check the flow of liquor, narcotics and money to ensure free and fair elections. Liquor worth 8.58 crore, drugs worth Rs. 17.52 crore, gold worth Rs 16 crore and cash amounting to Rs 10.05 crore were seized at different nakas. He said that 5573 trouble-makers have been identified and 4200 people have been bound down to ensure free and fair elections.
 
 “Security for this election is unprecedented and personnel have not been removed from nakas even 48 hours before the election,” he said. Apart from Punjab police, central forces have also been deployed.
 
 There are 364 NRI voters in the state. Besides, there are 1.05 lakh service voters in the state, he said, adding there are 65.36 lakh are urban voters while 1.33 crore are rural ones in the state. On Amritsar Lok Sabha bypoll seat, nine candidates are trying their luck. There are 13.8 lakh voters in the LS seat.
 
