KANPUR/NEW DELHI: Three persons, including a Mumbai-based former under-17 cricketer and a labourer, were arrested for their alleged involvement in betting on the   match between   and   at Green Park on Wednesday.

 The three — arrested from the Landmark Hotel where both the teams had put up — were in touch with an Ajmerbased bookie who had put heavy bets on the match.
 
 The Kanpur police, which received inputs from BCCI’s vigilance wing, has claimed the three accused received regular instructions from the bookie, Bunty, on Whatsapp. The bookie even wanted the three men to do whatever they can – including shifting the boundary rope and pouring acid on the pitch – to prevent Gujarat Rising from scoring. A police team has been sent to Ajmer to arrest Bunty.
 
 The three accused have been identified as Nayan Ramesh Shah, a former cricketer from Thane, Vikas Chauhan of Kanpur Dehat and Ramesh Kumar who works as flex installer for a local advertising company. The police also recovered Rs 4.90 lakh in cash, five mobile phones and several registers from the three men, who were putting up in room no. 1733, on the 17th floor of the hotel.
 
 The head of  's anticorruption unit and former   commissioner, Neeraj Kumar, said that his team was working on local leads for quite some time before executing Thursday’s covert operation. “We had been tracking every movement of these three men very closely. We didn’t have a search warrant and that is why we took help from Kanpur Police,” Neeraj Kumar said while dismissing reports that the arrested persons had any links with IPL cricketers.
 
 Ramesh Kumar told police that he was passing on information about the pitch to Nayan Ramesh Shah and Bunty. “He disclosed that he used to procure pictures of the pitch and inform Shah about its condition, based on which the latter used to play ‘satta’ on IPL matches,” said the police. The SSP Akash Kulhari said the police was also examining the   footage of the hotel to check who all had come to meet them.
 
 Inter-state betting ring busted in east Delhi: Cops have busted an inter-state IPL betting racket that has been running a syndicate in east Delhi’s Vishwas Nagar. Cash worth Rs 1 crore was recovered from them. Police suspect that the mastermind of the racket could be connected to some international bookies. Police recovered 22 mobiles and televisions from them.
 
