THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Ending the confusion over the   for   proposal (SCP), the city corporation has got the green signal from the state government to stick to the original cost of Rs 1,521.9 crore. Mayor V K Prasanth spoke to chief secretary   on Wednesday and arrived at the conclusion of retaining the project cost at Rs 1,521.9 crore. 

 The state-level  , during the presentation of smart city proposal, had suggested hiking the project cost to Rs 2,000 crore, anticipating a possible chance of paucity of funds at the centre.
 
 Although smart city guidelines clearly mandate fund allocation and release, the empowered committee had suggested adding projects to the tune of Rs 500 crore, a decision which was not welcomed by corporation considering the additional financial burden to be borne by the civic body.
 
 “We could point out the impractical elements while raising the project cost and it was decided to stick to the original sum. Now the final proposal will be presented before the ministry of urban development,” a corporation official said.
 
 The state government had suggested development of institutions and offices within the areas coming under area-based development as part of including more projects worth Rs 500 crore. This included development of the Secretariat, Central Stadium and a set of other projects for which state government has already allotted funds. However the smart city consultant had asked for separate letters from the government regarding fund allocation.
 
 It is yet to be seen if other suggestions from state mission management unit like including aspect of light metro in preparation of projects, concerns raised over junction improvement scheme in areas where similar schemes had already been implemented would be addressed by the smart city consultant before presenting the proposal in the centre on March 31. The empowered committee has also directed consultant to give thrust for certain state schemes which have received in principal nod like rehabilitation scheme for beggars, livelihood schemes and e-governance project. Besides regarding disaster resilience, suggestions to give weightage for fire and floods considering the vulnerability of core business area to flash floods have been given by the state government.
 
 Besides the mission unit is also learnt to have raised queries regarding coverage of area-based development with regard to total city area and population. As per the project document, the core business district covers only 2.6% of total city area and affects only 5.6% of residential population. When compared to Kochi, which has presented SCP to the tune of Rs 2,000 crore, these figures are hardly a match as Kochi’s area based development proposal covers upto 20% in terms of population and total city area.
 
 
