NEW DELHI:   ( ) has been adjudged the second best in the world according to the latest   (ASQ) report 2016, which was released by   (ACI). The best airport is Incheon in South Korea.

 Last year, IGI had moved to the ‘over 40 million passengers per annum’ (MPPA) category — the highest based on  . The airport’s ASQ score also increased substantially from 4.96 in 2015 to 4.99 in 2016. This helped IGI rise above other airports and attain the second position globally.
 
 “ASQ ratings give us a great opportunity to continuously refine our service quality levels. We are excited to be adjudged by ACI as number 2 globally in the highest category of 40 million and above passengers. Our focus has always been on enhancing customer’s experience,” said I Prabhakara Rao, CEO, DIAL.
 
 Rao added that due to robust growth, DIAL is looking forward to a strong collaboration and support of airport stakeholders as well as passengers. “We are now going to undertake expansion works. The IGIA Master Plan 2016 will further enhance the experience of our passengers and create a new benchmark for the aviation community worldwide,” he added.
 
 In 2015, IGI was adjudged the best airport in the world in the smaller category of 25-40 million passengers per annum and ranked number 6 globally with an ASQ score of 4.96. The Delhi airport was ranked 101 when the GMR-led consortium took over operations in 2006.
 
 “Being the national capital’s airport, the expectations and aspirations of passengers are quite high. So far, we have trained almost 50,000 airport staff in various disciplines in about 3,000 training sessions. We believe that besides achieving passenger delight, we have also been instrumental in fuelling the growth of inbound tourism,” Rao said.
 
 ASQ is the only worldwide programme to survey passengers at airports on their day of travel. Each year, the programme delivers over 6 lakh individual surveys in 41 languages in 84 countries. It measures passengers’ views of 34 key performance indicators, which include airport access, check-in, security screening, restrooms, stores and restaurants.
 
 
