MUMBAI: The landmark   in Fort may soon be known as  , which will include the schools of architecture, applied and fine arts. All three institutes are currently independent entities. Not just the name, the 160-year-old institute is looking to completely overhaul its curriculum, faculty and infrastructure, after it is awarded autonomy, to make it an institute of national importance on the lines of the  . 

 The art institute also plans to introduce ‘digital art’ as part of its curriculum. After the state announced it would grant autonomy to the institute, several prominent alumni have offered help to develop the curriculum, infrastructure and faculty. Some have even offered to teach at the institute. The administration, however, is awaiting the government resolution (GR) on the decision taken almost three months ago in the cabinet to plan their strategy. 
 
 “The schools of applied and fine arts and architecture can be brought under the school of design, as we basically teach design in different forms. But this can be proposed once the GR is officially issued. We will have to read the terms and conditions under which we will be granted autonomy status,” said dean of the Institute of Applied Arts,  , adding alumni are keen to pitch in once the autonomy comes through.
 
 Rajiv Mishra, director, Directorate of Art, said, “We are keen to introduce ‘digital art’ in our curriculum. It requires a complete overhaul an we will need to train the faculty too. The alumni of these institutes have shown interest in contributing to the institute’s development in their own capacities. All this will take form once the GR is issued.”
 
 The art and architecture institutes have trained some of the most prominent personalities in their respective industries. Many believe the institute has now lost its sheen and needs to be restored. 
 
 Sunil Mahadik, an award-winning communication professional and an alumni, said he wants to bridge the gap between industry and academia. “When we were students, we were not exposed to the real-world profession. Very rarely were experts invited or initiatives taken in that direction. We would like to change that and provide students exposure to various art forms. We intend to invite people from various industries to make them understand art in different perspectives. Art cannot be taught in the physical boundaries of the classroom. With the advent of technology, several possibilities will open up for students,” said Mahadik, adding art combined with technology can work wonders in several industries. “A good design can change the fortune of an automobile company, for instance,” he said.
 
 
