PUNE: The airport authorities on Monday refuted bird-hit claim behind the grounding of an   flight on Thursday.

 The Air India flight from Chandigarh (AI-813) was grounded on Thursday afternoon after the airline's technical team noticed a glitch in its engine due to a “bird-hit“, within a fortnight of a similar incident. Replying to a Twitter message sent to the handle of the Pune airport late last evening, airport officials replied that the incident with the AI flight was not a case of bird hit.“(The) Second (2nd) incident is not (that of) bird hit.   ( ) being airport operator shall take action,“ the response read.
 
 An Ai official in Pune agreed with the version of the airport authorities. “Initially , the impression was that the flight had suffered a bird-hit. There was some red material in the blades of the engine, which got damaged. And when the incident happened, a word of mouth among all our duty managers was that the flight has suf fered bird-hit. Hence, we too were under the same impression. However, on Sunday late evening, we checked with our engineering team to get the status and they said that that it was some FOD (foreign object debris) lying on the runway which got sucked inside by the flight's engine. When the front tyre of the flight was rolling after landing, it must have thrown the object backwards into the air only to be sucked by the engine. We, at this moment, don't know what the object was as it has been completely destroyed,“ Suhas Jadhav, station manager of AI at Pune airport, told TOI.
 
 Sources at the airport ex pressed shock over officials' bird-hit claim without proper investigation. “How can such a casual statement be made then? Flying is a serious business and even minor incidents should be treated with utmost seriousness. Once a flight is bird-hit, the whole aircraft goes through a thorough check and the more important thing is to find the cause. It should be made clear what exactly happened and what hit the flight,“ an airport official said.
 
 An FOD getting sucked into the engine of the aircraft is again a serious concern, he said.
 
 Aviation analyst and expert   said investigations in this case needed to be conclusive. “For flight safety, it is vital that the cause of the above incident is conclusively established by the airlines and the authorities concerned.This will help in adopting preventive measures to prevent such incidents in future,“ Vandekar told TOI.
 
