LUCKNOW:   is the biggest   for farmers in the poll sea son. But for the   in  , it is a matter of life and death.

 Around 500 farmers in Jalaalpura, a remote village in Garautha tehsil of Jhansi district, have pinned all their hopes on having their loans waived by the newly elected government in UP. The entire village is neck deep in debt, collectively owing more than Rs 10 crore to different banks. And, the story is similar in the 300-odd villages of Garautha.
 
 “Each   in Jalaalpura has taken an average of Rs 1-4 lakh as loans from different banks but is unable to pay back because of drought.If the government doesn't waive our loans, we would all have to vacate our lands,“ says Chandra Bhan Singh, a farmer in the village. Most of the farmers had taken loans either for agriculture or needs such as daughter's marriage and children's education. Some had borrowed to tide over family emergencies. “I had taken a Rs 2.85-lakh loan for my wife's treatment last year but haven't been able to pay back. I borrowed the loan through Kisan Credit Card but when my crops didn't do well, I had to again borrow again from a moneylender to pay off the earlier dues,“ says Krishna Gopal of Kakarwai village.
 
 The farmers' biggest concern is getting trapped in a vicious circle of borrowings to service previous debts. Like in Gopal's case, the first loan come from the banks. Then money-lenders come into the picture, and finally when they are unable to clear their dues, relatives are approached.
 
 Says Virendra Kumar, another farmer from Kakarwai: “A moneylender charges around Rs 5 interest per Rs 100 every month. This is so much financial burden on him that he can never come out of the trap. I myself took Rs 57,000 from the bank for my children's education but haven't been able to pay back.Now, I owe about Rs 65,000.“
 
 A local bank manager, Anuj Yadav, told TOI, “The irony is that the government provides subsidised interest to facilitate agriculture but farmers are so poor that they borrow for their personal needs ranging from marriages, education, health and even food.“
 
 “With so much poverty, it is obvious that farmers in Bundelkhand will never be able to pay off their dues and hence they wait for waivers,“ Yadav added.
 
 
