Chandigarh: Apart from the Haryana Urban Development Authority (HUDA), another leading contributor to the state’s growth—Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC)— is also facing severe financial crunch and has liabilities of around Rs 7,200 crore.

 As per the recent statement submitted before the Punjab and Haryana high court by the government, Rs 7,200 crore was payable by HSIIDC on account of enhanced compensation to the landowners as determined by the courts at different levels. The liability on HSIIDC is increasing as it had to pay the land owners the interest rate of 15%.
 
 After coming to know about the financial liabilities of HSIIDC, a division bench headed by Justice Rajesh Bindal has asked the HSIIDC to furnish a comprehensive plan/schedule for the payment of the compensation in HC on July 21.
 
 The order was released on Tuesday by the HC during the hearing of an ongoing petition on the issue. The matter had reached before the HC after several farmers from Gurugram and other parts of the state, whose land was acquired by HSIIDC but had not been paid the compensation, had approached the high court. In several cases the land landowners, whose land acquisition process was started in 2004 and compensation award was announced in 2006, had not been paid compensation till date.
 
 The HSIIDC, on the other hand, has been claiming that it could not make payment because several properties could not be sold after land acquisition.
 
 Meanwhile, HUDA, another important department of the state acquiring land from the farmers for developing residential and commercial complexes, is also reeling under crippling financial crises, with a liability of around Rs 15,000 crore payable to farmers for acquisition of their land.
 
 The poor financial condition of state’s urban development could also be gauged from the fact that all bank accounts of HUDA, except the accounts from which the salary was being disbursed, were attached. In around 65 cases, the executing courts had issued bailable/non-bailable warrants for arrest of the Chief Administrator, HUDA and in around 272 cases, personal appearance of the officers of the HUDA at different levels have been directed.
 
 The cases against HUDA are pending before several subordinates courts across the state.
 
 However, the HC has already asked the subordinate courts not to take any coercive step against HUDA till the authorities make some payments to the land owners by arranging loans from the banks.
 
 
