NAGPUR: “It is unfortunate that commercial interests supersede  ,” said Maheep Gupta,   (CCF), on Tuesday. 

 Speaking at a programme organized jointly by the state department of forests and Nature’s Club under the aegis of   of Dr   at Deekshabhoomi on the occasion of World Forestry Day, Gupta said a few policies from international conventions and treaties on environment are being implemented by countries around the world fearing fiscal losses. “Now is the time to take an initiative to conserve our environment before we arrive at a point of no return,” he told students.
 
 Gupta, along with deputy director of social forestry department Kishore Mishrikotkar, wildlife warden (retd) Gopal Thosar, additional principal chief conservator of forests N Rambabu, professor at Pune university Vilas Tabhane, college’s vice-principal SM Naranje and registrar Arun Joseph were present at the inaugural ceremony.
 
 Gupta said, “Global temperatures have risen 1.5 degrees Celsius since pre-industrial age which does not sound much. But extreme climate changes are the results.” The upshot of the rise in temperature is the reduction in food production since crops are not able to adapt to the changing environment, he claimed.
 
 Peak temperatures in summers are increasing every year causing deaths due to heatstroke, according to Gupta. Increase in temperatures is also causing glaciers to melt at an alarming rate, resulting in rise in sea level globally. “Floods in coastal cities like Mumbai and Chennai are an indication of rising sea levels attributed to global warming,” said Gupta.
 
 Rambabu urged to try and conserve energy as much as possible to reduce the impact on environment caused by burning of fossil fuels and use alternative sources like solar power. “We must take stock of the situation and act now and preserve our forests,” he said.
 
 Archana Meshram, a professor in zoology and coordinator of Nature’s Club, has been working with the club since 10 years and organizing programmes on International Forest Day for the last seven years.
 
 The inaugural ceremony was followed by a culture show competition in which five schools participated. There was also an intercollegiate debate in which four colleges took part. The topic of the debate was ‘Mining and forests: Destruction or development’.
 
