KOLKATA:   rescued 26 victims of   from   in South 24 Parganas and arrested 30 alleged perpetrators, including two females recently.

 Eight of the 26 victims are minors. International Justice Mission (IJM) assisted with the operation. Hotel Green Palace has four floors and a total of 34 rooms. CID entered every room to arrest customers and rescue victims. Police questioned all couples found in the rooms, needing to discern the nature of the relationship, whether legal or illegal. A total of 23 customers were arrested.
 
 Hotel Green Palace staff who were involved in this illegal racket were arrested. They exploited minors and used the hotel to run prostitution. Two of the 30 arrested are women and the supposed traffickers and procurers of the girls. Meaning, these two women would allegedly deliver the girls to the hotel for the customer’s “enjoyment” and then profit from the transaction.
 
 IJM’s Director of Operations in Kolkata, Saji Philip, said, “The entire rescue operation was a huge undertaking, but CID was not deterred. Their determination resulted in justice being done: the saving of 26 girls and the arrest of 30 criminals.”
 
 The number of those arrested and rescued is uncanny—especially given the fact the operation was executed at a hotel, not a brothel. The private network of trafficking is difficult to pin down: girls are moved from one location to the next quickly and discreetly; the location itself is often unassuming as it could be a regular apartment or place of business. In sum, the private network is a more organized, complex crime. Acknowledging this reality, then, helps one to appreciate the sheer magnitude of CID’s feat, arresting not just one or two, but 30 people who were commercially or sexually benefitting from the exploitation of girls.
 
 The police filed a First Information Report under sections 363, 366A, 370, 370A, 372, 373, 120,and 34 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC); sections 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, and 9 of the Immoral Trafficking.
 
 Prevention Act (ITPA); sections 4, 6 and 17 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSOA), and section 81 of Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act. The accused will be presented before the District Judge, Alipore Court, Arun Bandyopadhyay.
 
