TNN

 Mumbai: A combination of negative factors—a deteriorating domestic fiscal situation, fresh tension in the Korean peninsula and fears about global investors turning bearish on emerging markets after S&P’s downgrading of China’s ratings—led to a 1.4% (or 448 points) slide in the   to 31,922 points, it’s biggest single-session points slide in 10 months. The US Federal Reserve’s plans to cut its over $4-trillion books also left investors jittery, especially about emerging markets that affected sentiment on Dalal Street. 
 
 As a result of the sharp fall, investors were left poorer by Rs 2.71 lakh crore with BSE’s market capitalisation now at Rs 139.2 lakh crore. 
 
 On Thursday the government said it was working on an economic stimulus package estimated at up to Rs 50,000-crore. Market players, however, questioned how the money required for the stimulus will be mobilised and if it could force the government to overshoot its fiscal deficit targets. Such a step could lead to higher inflation, which could force the RBI not to cut interest rates. Fears of higher inflation led to a spike in bond yields and also weak trend for the rupee against other major currencies. 
 
 In addition to the domestic and global economic reasons and geo-political factors, brokers also said that usually the Indian market shows heightened volatility as it nears the expiry of derivatives contracts, which usually is scheduled for the last Thursday of the month. According to Deven Choksey, MD, K R Choksey Shares & Securities, apart from the geopolitical and economic factors, the derivatives expiry related factor is also very relevant. “Unfortunately our markets are fully cash settled even though rollover volumes are in the range of Rs 7 lakh crore. It’s high time that the settlement in the derivatives segment allows for delivery based settlement also so that market participants can have a choice,” he said. “This would probably address the problem of high volatility as we near the expiration date,” Choksey said. 
 
 In Friday’s market, Tata Steel, L&T and Reliance were top sensex losers, each closing between 2.8% and 4.7% lower, while Wipro and Coal India were the two stocks among its 30 constituents which closed with gains.
 
 
