At a time when   is being linked to a host of  , a new British study has found that   levels start tailing off as early as the age of 7, rather than during adolescence as is widely believed. The epidemic of 'physical inactivity' seems to be catching up earlier, or so it seems.
 
 A study published online in the British Journal of   Medicine on Monday said, "The prevailing view among policy makers and health professionals is that physical activity levels during childhood are adequate, but fall sharply during adolescence, and that the decline is significantly greater among girls." 
 
 The study's researchers tracked the physical activity levels of a representative sample of around 400 children taking part in the Gateshead Millennium Cohort Study in North East England over a period of eight years (2006-15). "Physical activity levels were measured when the children were 7, 9, 12 and 15 years old, using a small lightweight portable monitor that was worn for seven days at a time. This recorded activity for 15 second intervals, and was removed only at night, and for bathing/swimming," said the release.
 
 The study found that the total volume of physical activity fell from the age of 7 onwards in both boys and girls during this time, with declines no steeper during adolescence than in earlier childhood. However, four distinct patterns emerged for the boys: low levels that slowly tailed off from the age of 7 (3% of the sample); initially high but rapidly declining levels from the age of 7 (17%); moderate levels that gradually tailed off from the age of 7 (61%); and stable levels of moderate to vigorous physical activity throughout (19%).
 
 There were three different patterns among the girls: low levels of physical activity to start with, which slowly declined from the age of 7 (19%); moderate levels that gradually tailed off from the age of 7 (62%); and high initial levels that fell sharply from the age of 7 onwards (19%).
 
 Stating that these study's findings couldn't be extrapolated to other countries, the researchers however said a shift in research focus might be warranted. "The study questions the concept of the adolescent girl as a priority for research and policy efforts in physical activity,” it added.
 
