MUMBAI: In a first, the parents of a 25-year-old hemophiliac patient in Mumbai donated his heart and kidneys on Thursday to save the lives of three terminally-ill patients.

 Hemophilia is a genetic disorder in which the patient tends to bleed excessively because of the lack of coagulation factor called factor VIII. The Zonal Transplant Coordination Centre, which coordinates sharing of cadaveric organ donations between hospitals, said that Thursday's donation was the fifth in the city so far this year.
 
 The donor, who hasn't been identified on his family's request, was a student who lived with his parents in Cuffe Parade. His father works as a domestic help in the posh address. "A week back, he got a severe headache that he ignored for a couple of days though he and his family were aware of his condition," said a doctor. Hemophilia patients can bleed internally due to small injuries or falls. He fell unconscious and was rushed to a government hospital on February 3.
 
 But his father's employer transferred him to   Hospital in Agripada the same day. "We found he had a clot in the brain and operated on him,'' said Dr Parag Rindani, head of Wockhardt Hospital. But the patient didn't recover and was declared brain dead late on Wednesday. However, the youngster's liver couldn't be taken because of hemophilia; a normal liver would produce Factor VIII.
 
 One of kidneys was donated to a patient registered for transplant at Wockhardt itself while the second kidney was given to a patient at  ,  . His heart was transplanted into a patient registered for transplant at Fortis Hospital in Mulund.
 
 "It does seem the first time that a hemophiliac patient has donated organs," said Dr Kanjaksha Ghosh, director of the   at KEM Hospital, Parel. ``Most hemophiliac patient tend to get some infection that makes it difficult for them to donate organs," he added.
 
 Dr Vatsala Trivedi, former head of ZTCC, said that having hemophiliacs aren't excluded from the pool of donors. ``Only their liver cannot be taken,'' she added.
 
 In 2016, Mumbai witnessed a record number of 59 cadaveric donations. This year so far, the city has got five cadaver donations that transplanted into eight kidney transplants, five liver transplants and two heart transplants.
 
