NOIDA: The Noida-STF arrested Sunil Mittal’ father of Anubhav Mittal, the mastermind of 3,726 crore Ponzi scam which was busted on February 2. He was arrested from Ghaziabad on Friday night. He is co-accused in the scam and cases of cheating (420), forgery (467, 468), using as genuine forged document (471), and criminal conspiracy (120) of IPC registered against him in Phase III police station. 

 Raj Kumar Mishra, DSP Noida-STF, said that   had been absconding since the police conducted a raid and arrested his son Anubhav Mittal and two associates –   and Mahesh Dayal. “We received information about his movement in Ghaziabad. A team of police officials visited the spot and arrested him,” he said.
 
 The mastermind of scam Anubhav Mittal (26) holds a B-Tech degree, his accomplice, Shridhar Prasad (40), has done MBA, and Mahesh Dayal (25), gave technical support in the Ponzi scam. The accused had launched a scheme — Social Trade — promising people to join a pyramid scheme and earn while sitting at home in 2015. They took on people with subscription money ranging from Rs 5,750, Rs 11,500, Rs 28,750 and Rs 57,500. The investors were given a user ID and password and told that they would get some random URL links on their phone and would be paid Rs 5 per like.
 
 The accused told the investors that the company got business from a third party to increase the latter’s online hits on digital platforms. The investors were given 25, 50, 75 and 125 URLs on their phones every day according to their subscription plans.
 
 The fraud came to light when some people claimed that they had not got the money even after clicking on the URLs. Based on their complaint, an FIR was registered at the Surajpur police station on January 31 and another FIR on February 1 at the Phase III police station.
 
 The STF officials said that Anubhav had transferred Rs 5 crore to Sunil Mittal’s account just few days before the scam was busted. Sunil Mittal later floated another company named –   – at his native place in Pilakhua. Anubhav Mittal’s wife   is still absconding.
 
 
