Snowfall in Jammu & Kashmir,   Pradesh and  , coupled with rains in the plains, led to the mercury plummeting across north India on Saturday. With Delhi receiving its first winter showers, the maximum temperature fell three notches below normal to 16°C.

 Day to day life was affected at several places in the three hill states as heavy snowfall affected power, water supply and transport.
 
 Tourist destinations Shimla, Manali and Dalhousie were cut off from the rest of Himachal Pradesh on Saturday following heavy snowfall overnight, officials said. Over 30 state-run buses were reported stranded at many stretches on the   road. 
 
 The electricity supply was cut off in Shimla and Manali as power lines were damaged due to falling tree branches. Water froze in taps. Himachal director general of police Somesh Goyal said it was after decades that Shimla received so much snow.
 
 The state Met department issued an avalanche warning, and requested people to postpone trips to the higher reaches. Heavy rain and snow was predicted to continue on Sunday.
 
 In Uttarakhand, Nainital has experienced its first snowfall in almost two years, with the minimum temperature falling to -1°C. Both Nainital and Mussoorie received 15cm of snow while it rained intermittently in the foothills of Uttarakhand.
 
 Some higher- altitude areas received over 30cm of snow. “Snowfall is likely to continue on Sunday morning as well,”   director Bikram Singh said.
 
 Saturday saw the Kashmir Valley continue to experience cold wave conditions for the second consecutive day. The Valley reported the season’s heaviest snowfall on Friday. The Srinagar-Jammu highway remained closed on Saturday. 
 
 Air traffic at Srinagar airport remained suspended but train services on the Srinagar-Banihal route were unaffected. Power supply remained suspended as well on Saturday.
 
 “The power department has been trying to restore the power supply and has set up four control rooms to monitor restoration work,” said chief engineer, power (Kashmir), Shahnaz Goni. The Srinagar district administration has predicted heavy snow till Sunday. “The minimum temperatures in all areas of Kashmir division will remain below the freezing point,” an official said.
 
