MADURAI: Summer camps are seen as a means to keep   during the holidays, but one such   became the cynosure of attention this week by making  . Here the participants were given a hands-on experience in the fields and also made to learn the significance of the country’s primary occupation. 

 Dr Dheep, the organizer of Topkids, said that they decided to make agriculture the theme of the camp in the backdrop of the prevailing drought conditions and farmers’ problems. They wanted to expose the city students, who had no idea of paddy fields and agriculture, to a real-time experience during the week-long camp which started last Sunday.
 
 The participants were taken to the fields in Chettikulam village on the outskirts of Madurai city where they learnt the basic techniques of paddy cultivation. After an introduction to agriculture, the children themselves got busy with the activities. 
 
 “I felt disgusted when the field was filled with water and we were asked to step into it as I have never played with mud. But once we entered the field, it was fun and each one of us enjoyed it immensely,’’ said  , (13) who attended the camp along with her sister Shwetha. Ploughing the field by steering the bull was also an unforgettable experience according to her. 
 
 Taking into account the climatic conditions, the camp was conducted in the paddy field adjoining a coconut grove so that the children did not have to be exposed to too much heat. Twelve-year-old A   is one person who could go on and on about his experience in the field. 
 
 “We actually started rolling in the mud, something that I have never done before and never thought would be such a wonderful experience,’’ he said.
 
 The ‘seed bombs’ that they made one day fascinated all the children in the camp. They were told to gather local wild seeds, soak them in water overnight and discard those that floated. The seeds were then mixed with soil and water and made into balls. They were kept to dry. “Then we threw them into open plots hoping that the seeds would germinate and grow,’’ they said.
 
 
