KOCHI: The high court has sought the views of the state government and the   on a petition challenging the decision to increase  . 

 Suo motu proceedings were initiated by   for tariff revision to make good the loss suffered by KSEB during 2011-12 and 2012-13 when KSEB was converted to a company. The company was formed in November 2013 with nil liability in the balance sheet. 
 
 The present proposal is to raise Rs 600 crore as additional revenue to cover the alleged loss, with Rs 342 crore to be collected from domestic consumer, the public interest litigation filed by Dejo K of Kottayam said.
 
 While the KSEB was converted to a company as mandated by law, the salaries being paid to its employees were higher when compared to other public sector companies, the petitioner alleged. In the name of some employees such as lineman, who were engaged in high risk duty, other employees who sit in air-conditioned offices were paid high salaries. A second-grade driver is getting a salary of almost Rs1 lakh, alleged the petition. Similarly, the company was buying electricity at a higher rate on the basis of long-term agreements while industrial consumers were getting energy at Rs 2-3 per unit, the   stated. 
 
 Despite these, the company was making a profit by levying a high tariff from its consumer. This was equal to disability of consumers being exploited by a mighty state and state-regulated establishment, said the PIL.
 
 Even in the absence of an audited balance sheet, the KSEB had a revenue surplus of 575.74 crore during 2016-17. When there is surplus revenue, law mandates reduction in tariff to the advantage of consumers. However, the commission had recommended tariff revision after taking in the high salary requirements of the company, the petition alleged.
 
 The electricity regulatory commission was required to function as the guardian and protector of consumers' rights and it was for that purpose that independent persons were to be appointed as the chairman and members as per Electricity Act of 2003, the petitioner pointed out. But the commission had turned out to be an asylum for retired senior bureaucrats of KSEB and they were protecting the company and were functioning as the employees of KSEB, alleged the petitioner.
 
 
