KOCHI: When  , who bagged best   award last year, set out to pursue a career in films as director a decade ago, she had to knock the doors of many.

 Most directors refused to accept her as their assistant just because of her gender. Her first break was with  . Industry sources say 60% of Malayalam films have at least one woman as assistant director.
 
 According to women directors, the transformation was not an easy thing.
 
 “Now, we can swear that at least halfa-dozen new women directors will make their presence felt in the Mollywood in the next couple of years. It is the social media which helped the community to grow. Many drew inspiration from our experiences. Earlier, only a few women thought that females can play the role of directors as well,“ said   K Menon, who won the best debut director award for her film Love 24x7.
 
 Director Kamal said it was the shift of locations from Chennai to Kerala that paved way for the arrival of more women in to directorial sphere. “During the can ning of films, the crew will have to stay in the location for days on end. Women would have found it difficult to stay in Chennai. Once the location shifted to Kerala, more and more women are enter ing the field,“ Kamal said.
 
 Education also seemed to have played an important role for the women's entry to the tinsel world as assistant directors.
 
 “Now there are a lot of educated persons in the film world. This is the main thing which helped the entry of more women,“ said Soumya, associate director.Those in the Mollywood are viewing the rise in the number of women directors as a good gesture. “We all welcome the change. In Kollywood, there were many like Maniratnam who accepted women assistant directors years ago,“ Anthikkad said.
 
 According to Sreebala, the situation is not so rosy for women when it comes to jobs of technicians. “Though the number of assistant directors is going up, there are still very few women working as cinematographers, costumers, composers, scriptwriters and lyricists,“ she said. Kerala has had several award-winning women directors in the recent past including Anjali Menon and Geethu Mohandas.
 
 Actors Revathy and Sheela too have tried wearing director's cap. Editor Beena Paul, scriptwriter   and cinematographer Uma Kumarapuram are some of the notable women faces in the filmdom in Kerala.
 
