NEW DELHI: It may have been many things to many people, but for Deepika the April municipal polls in Delhi meant being able to finally assert herself as a transgender in public and let go of her biological identity as a male. Talking to TOI of her liberating experience, she smiled, “I had voted earlier too, but as someone with a male name. This time was different. I voted as myself.“

 The voter's card designating the 25-year old Deepika as a transgender is among the many experiences that others of her ilk share at Setu, literally a bridge, a single-window mechanism on legal help set up by   in collaboration with community organisations in Prem Nagar, Nangloi. Setu is fast becoming the preferred platform to acquire legal necessities such as a voter's card and Aadhaar card for people from special groups.
 
 Deepika said that the day she decided to assert her transgender identity, things started becoming difficult, leading up to her having to leave home. Today, she lives in a rented house in   with other trans people. Now that she has a voter's card, Deepika hopes her transgender identity will reflect in her school certificates too Each day is a new challenge at Setu. Many don't want to be photographed or reveal their male names. A transgender, who declined to be identified, told TOI that she had come there to inquire about the legalities involved in marrying. “I am yet to get the answer. The counsellors plan to organise a special session for us some time to inform us about the law,“ she said.
 
 Trans people hope Setu will help them get the documentations necessary to help them in finding jobs. One of them wistfully said, “Only if we have some source of livelihood can we live a life of dignity.“ Without employment, she has to live at home. And this has its disadvantages. As she explained, “My parents don't want me to give up my male identity, so I am forced to wear trousers and shirts even though I feel like a woman.“
 
 NGO Aarohan, which is linking the community with the single-window system, is working with 1,100 transgender people belonging to Sultanpuri, Mangolpuri, Nangloi, Rama Vihar, Budh Vihar, Vijay Vihar, Rohini, Prem Nagar, Adarsh Nagar, Vasundhara Kalyanpuri and Rani Bagh. An assessment by the NGO showed that many transgenders live away from their family and with partners or friends. Lack of education and social stigma make things diffi cult for them, forcing many to engage in commercial sex or beg for survival.
 
 “Transgender community members understand the importance of coming under the purview of government projects like Aadhaar and public distribution system for food, but they don't have the documents for this,“ said  , programme manager, Aarohan. “Some bribe dealers to get these documents. But many get shouted at by government officers and police harassment is also high.“ They come to Setu seeking support and legal knowledge -and to get the necessary papers that could get government loans and assistance.
 
