LUCKNOW: Hundreds of residents of Jamkhanwa village in   assembly constituency on Friday staged protest and announced to boycott voting in the upcoming elections, demanding restoration of power supply in the area. They said there was no electricity supply in the village for the past two months after two transformers in the area got damaged following a short-circuit.

 “Transformers were not repaired despite our repeated complaints with the   and higher authorities,” the villagers say. There are 300 families and 1,406 listed voters in the village. People said that there was no power supply in the village after two transformers got damaged due to short-circuit caused by overloading.
 
 “We lodged complaint with the Lesa SDO in January, he diverted us to higher authority. When we approached to SDM BKT  , she said, the problem would be solved only after election,” said Saurabh Gupta, Pradhan of Jamkhanwa. “I am pursuing my graduation and my examinations are round the corner. I cannot study at night and my mother cooks under lantern light. Such is the hardship that I have decided not to vote in this election,” said Akansha Shukla of the village. “Residents are not ready to take their election slips, when I visited their doors, they directly denied to accept,” said booth-level officer (BLO) Sanjay Rawat. “When our SDO Naveen Nishant informed us about the problem of Jamkhanwa, I sent a transformer for replacement. But villagers stopped our team, asking for a transformer of higher capacity. I assured them, that I have prepared the proposal for higher KV transformer and but would be installed only after the permission of LESA chief,” said Lesa executive engineer, Ram Prakash. However, LESA officials blame villagers for the problem. said. 
 
 The BKT SDM said that on receiving complaint she inquired with the executive engineer. "He told me that when one transformer got dysfunctional due to overload, villagers switched their connections over to the second one which also got overburdened and burnt. I assured them that once the model code of conducts gets over, we will replace the transformer with higher KV,” she said.
 
