NEW DELHI: A 28-year-old researcher from Germany has alleged that her   tried to   her in his   flat when his family members had gone out. In her complaint, the woman said she had a miraculous escape as the eight-year-old son of the man returned home and started calling him out.

 The woman registered a complaint through the Delhi Commission for Women. She said that the incident had happened on November 30, a day before she was scheduled to travel back to Germany. 
 
 The woman said that she had arrived in India in May last year in connection with her research. She was staying in a rented accommodation at D-block in Hauz Khas, along with another woman. On the day of the incident, she had gone to her landlord’s apartment on the ground floor to pay the rent. He offered her to have brunch with him. His wife and son had gone to a market nearby, the victim alleged.
 
 She said that the man struck a conversation with her about her research but soon started getting personal. During this, she asked him if she could use the washroom attached to one of the bedrooms. When she stepped out, the man pushed her to a bed and allegedly touched her inappropriately. 
 
 By this time, the man’s son had returned home and called out for him. The complainant said that she managed to push him away and run out of the house. Once she was in her room, the woman informed her flatmate and some other friends about the incident. She initially hesitated about registering a complaint and left for Germany the next day. 
 
 On December 5, the woman mailed her complaint to DCW, seeking actions against the perpetrator. The complaint was forwarded to the   on December 27 after which a case under sections 354 (molestation) and 509 (outraging a woman’s modesty) was registered.
 
 The cops contacted the German embassy and got in touch with the woman to record her statement in presence of a magistrate under Section 164 CrPC. The perpetrator may be arrested once she records her statement, police said. “We have sent an email requesting her to return to Delhi and are waiting for her reply,” said  , spokesperson of the Delhi Police.
 
 
