MUMBAI: A 28-year-old woman stabbed herself with a fruit-cutting knife after her younger, college-going boyfriend sought more time to think about marriage on Thursday evening. She is recovering in hospital.

 After the incident, in a bid to avoid problems with the police, the young couple cooked up a story of an unknown person misbehaving with her near the Mahalaxmi racecourse and stabbing her as she resisted. The   police fell for the story and registered a case of attempted murder against an unknown person. Even sketches of the purported suspect were made.
 
 The woman, a divorcee from Tardeo with a five-year-old son, was brought to the B Y L Nair Hospital by her 22-year-old boyfriend. The hospital authorities informed the police. “In her statement, the woman said she was to meet her boyfriend near the racecourse at around 7.45 pm on Thursday. As she was waiting, an unknown person misbeha ved with her. When she resisted, he stabbed her and fled. She told the police that within a few minutes, her friend arrived in a taxi and took her to hospital. The woman also gave a description of the unknown assaulter,“ said a police officer, adding that there was one stab injury on her chest below the collar bone. The medical report said a knife was used to cause the injury.
 
 Even as the case was being filed, asection of officers smelled rat. They subjected the woman to sustained questioning, and she spilled the beans. By then, the attempted murder case had been registered.
 
 The woman said she and the youth were in a relationship and had gone to Shirdi on January 2. By the time they returned, they had planned their wedding. She called up a friend and asked her to come to   station on Friday so that they could go together to the marriage registry office in  .
 
 On Thursday evening, the youth met her near the racecourse. When she said her friend will act as a witness during the wedding, he said he wanted some more time to convince his parents who had earlier disapproved of the relationship.She got furious, argued with him and stabbed herself. The panicking youth rushed her to hospital.
 
 “We suspected the story and that's why continued questioning. Now we are searching for the knife.We are seeking legal opinion about registering a fresh case against the couple for misleading the police,“ said a police officer. Zonal DCP   said the woman is in hospital but out of danger.
 
