After thousands of protesters gathered this month in several cities across  , asking for the Supreme Court’s ban on   (a bull-taming sport that’s part of its Pongal celebrations) to be revoked, the state government passed a new law that allows the sport. But in a twist in the tale, the move has been challenged in the SC again. While fans of Jallikattu and animal activists are fighting over the traditional sport, we look at other animal-based games that are popular across the world...

 
 An MP from Pune has demanded that the ban on bullock-cart racing, an entertainment sport in Maharashtra, be lifted. People are also looking at making   (buffalo racing) in Karnataka and cock fighting (a Sankranti sport where cocks with blades tied to their limbs fight each other) in Andhra Pradesh legal. The ban on bulbul fights in Assam, in which the bird is reportedly fed intoxicating substances to make it aggressive, has been temporarily lifted last year. Now, the organisers are trying to lift the stay.
 
 
 An interesting variant of polo, this one is played while riding on elephants. This royal game is popular in India, especially in Rajasthan, and in Nepal, Sri Lanka and Thailand. Interestingly, the Rajasthan High Court had banned the sport in 2008 and even heritage hotels had supported the move, refusing to organise it for tourists. 
 
 
 Villages near Salem in Tamil Nadu organise Jallikattu with a twist. Here, the sport involves foxes, a protected wildlife animal. A fox is brought to the temple and worshiped. People then tie its hind legs together and let it run. Participants then try to catch it. The animal’s mouth is also tied so that it doesn’t bite the participants. 
 
 
 This one is probably the cutest sport that involves animals. Tiny, young rabbits leap over obstacle and race against each other to win the match. Rabbit show jumping is popular in Scandinavian countries, UK and even the US. The sport has also set records, with the longest jump being 3m.This one is probably the cutest sport that involves animals. Tiny, young rabbits leap over obstacle and race against each other to win the match. Rabbit show jumping is popular in Scandinavian countries, UK and even the US. The sport has also set records, with the longest jump being 3m.
 
 
 A form of blood sport, the dogs are made to fight each other, sometimes until they bleed to death. Though dog fighting is deemed illegal in most of the developed countries, it’s reportedly prevalent in Afghanistan even today. 
 
 
 Cute little piglets run across small pools of water and sometimes, even chase balls that are covered in fish oil, in what’s touted as the Pig Olympics. The enclosed track also have fake grass or gravel. An annual fare in Russia, thank God it doesn’t involve cruelty.
 
 
 This one is a traditional Swiss sport, and involves one cow fighting another. Considered to be a non-lethal bloodsport, it can last for up to 40 minutes. Cow fighting and bull fighting also take place in Italy and Turkey. 
 
 
 Also known as ferret-down-trousers, this sport involves people tying up ferrets to their waist. The furry creatures are tied up at the ankles so that they don’t escape. The participant has to stand before the judges, all the 
 while withstanding the misery the ferret inflicts. The one who stands the longest, takes home the prize.
 
 
 An extremely popular sport in Spain and France, idi probak sees two oxen dragging a rectangular rock from one side of the match square to the other. The rocks weigh in tonnes, and the animal is led by its owner. The oxens have to complete a lap within 30 minutes to win the trophy.
 
 
 One of the most common camel sports in Turkey, it involves two males wrestling each other, led on by a female camel. The animals are decked up in the finest of accessories and paraded before the fight begins. These camels are not trained for battle, so they apparently use whatever technique they can think of to claim victory. The sport is believed to have originated over 2,400 years ago.
 
