The   pattern for Hindi has changed from this year, so previous papers cannot be referred for an idea. But the books still contain the old syllabus.

 You must solve the paper sequentially and attempt all questions. You should give at least 3 minutes each for reading the prose and poem. While reading, you must pay attention to different adjectives, nouns, verbs, etc in the passage. The personal response question in comprehension has a weightage of 2 marks. You are expected to show your creativity in it. Try to think differently and impress the valuer.
 
 The full stop is called ‘poornviram’ in Hindi and it is different from that in English. Children mostly get confused and forget to add the punctuation.   out on ‘poornviram’ is a grammatical blunder. When it comes to making sentences using proverbs, ensure that you have written the meaning of the proverb. It is not necessary to use very strong vocabulary here. Keeping your sentences simple will reduce the errors.
 
 Letter writing has a stepwise marking scheme like maths and you can score well here. Drawing the envelope is mandatory here. Don’t make the silly mistake of writing ‘Yours xyz’ in the end. The senders’ name and address is specified in the question itself along with other details.
 
 There are some words which sound similar in Hindi and Marathi but are spelled differently. You should be alert while using them. For example, ‘Madat’ in Marathi is ‘Madad’ in Hindi. The Hindi we use for daily conversation varies from the authentic one. If you read your textbook well, the subject becomes very simple.
 
 Students have unnecessarily collected a lot of study material which creates great confusion and panic during exam time. In the rapid reading section, sometimes the question can be asked in a tricky way. This tests your ability to follow the instructions. It also reveals how much you understand the language. When you are asked to pick out an antonym of a word from the passage, then look out for it. Don’t write your own words.
 
 The writer is Hindi teacher at  
 
 (Compiled by Juveriya Khan)
 
 
