Aurangabad: In what could be a major setback for Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University (Bamu), several leading engineering colleges from Aurangabad have deserted one of the oldest universities in the country and have affiliated themselves with the recently formed technological university. 

 Incidentally, the relatively larger number of colleges from Bamu have sought affiliation to state technological university as compared to other state universities, including Pune and Mumbai.
 
 While the exodus could have both long-term and short-term effects on the university, authorities from the concerned colleges said that they foresee better prospects in tie-up with Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Technological University ( ).
 
 “We are living in an era of branding. We do not see a lot of potential in associating with Bamu for various reasons, including public perception. We could attract more students and excel at national and international level, if we tie-up with the state technological university,” said a senior faculty from one of the top local engineering colleges preferring anonymity. 
 
 Echoing similar views, another faculty from an engineering college said that being affiliated with a dedicated technological university would be a better preposition for any institution. “Unlike Mumbai and Pune universities, other state universities like Bamu are not a brand in themselves. On the other hand, Batu has shown early signs of organised functioning and is expected to take it forward effectively being the sole state-run technological university,” he said. 
 
 Speaking to ToI, Bamu vice-chancellor B A Chopade said that the university was committed for academic excellence of colleges who repose faith in it. “We have had an illustrious journey that will remain uninterrupted in the years to come,” he said.
 
 Headquartered at Lonere in Raigad district, Batu has been bestowed with the powers to provide affiliation to educational institutes offering courses that are approved by the apex bodies, such as All India Council for Technical Education, Council of Architecture and Pharmacy Council of India. The university was accorded the status of an affiliating university for the entire state since March 2, 2016. 
 
 When contacted, Satish Patil, director, Board of College and University Development of Bamu, said, “It was natural for a section of institutions to affiliate with Bamu.” 
 
 “The state government has given a choice to colleges to either affiliate with Batu or traditional state universities. Therefore, there is nothing much to read between the lines,” he said. 
 
 When asked why relatively larger number of colleges from Bamu have been joining Batu as compared to other traditional universities, Patil said, “Institutions from different state universities have affiliated themselves with state technological university and the number could vary from one university to another.” 
 
 The executive council with the representation of the director of the state Directorate of Technical Education is one of the powerful bodies of Batu. Scheduled to meet once in two months, the Council is believed to play key role in smooth implementation of policy decisions related to affiliation. 
 
 
