  The mammoth success of Dangal with its feisty quartet of female wrestlers has cast a much-needed spotlight on the art of casting. The man behind that is Mukesh Chhabra, whose roster of discoveries is quite unparalleled. He guided Nawazuddin Siddiqui (Gangs of Wasseypur 1 & 2), Sushant Singh Rajput (Kai Po Che), Vicky Kaushal (Masaan), Rajkummar Rao (Kai Po Che and Shahid) to their breakthrough roles, and discovered Munni (Harshaali Malhotra) in Bajrangi Bhaijan. Kalpana Nair spoke to him about how he goes about discovering and shaping talent.      Dangal was one of my most challenging projects due to a lot of reasons. Firstly, we needed actors with a certain look and complexion along with great acting abilities. Then the young Geeta and Babita had to be in sync physically with their older versions for it to be believable. On top of that we needed actors who were physically fit and ready for full-time commitment for an entire year. And finally, they needed to be ready to cut their hair because that is an important part of the film. Also they were untrained actors, so we did a lot of workshops with them.      What happens is that when you start your new job, you have no idea how big it could go on to become. I was with NSD (National School of Drama), mainly working with children and doing theatre workshops with them. Then I worked with Vishal Bhardwaj during Blue Umbrella and finding kids to work on the film. Slowly I helped with Chak De casting, then Rang De Basanti happened because I knew almost every actor in Delhi. I soon started assisting directors and my responsibility would be the casting department because there was no specific job called Casting Director then.      Only after Gangs of Wasseypur (Part 1 & 2), when I found 384 actors, which took me one year, was when everyone really noticed my work. I think that film changed the casting director’s image because everyone came out of it thinking, “Who are those actors?”      Great casting is when the audience is only feeling for the character and not the star. I would be very happy if the audience didn’t know the real names of Geeta and Babita in Dangal and only identified them by their characters. My job starts after the first draft of the script is finished. I am usually the first person to come on board. I read my script, I make my casting notes, sit with the director and make a brief. Then I try and think about what the director has in mind. It is very important for me to understand how Vishal Bhardwaj thinks, how Anurag Kashyap thinks and how Raju Hirani thinks.For example, Anurag Kashyap usually prefers natural actors who are close to the character in real life as well, in terms of dialogues and behaviour. Raju Hirani often wants a certain specific look for his characters. Vishal Bharadwaj is particular about the language and diction of the actors. Then I start looking for the actors. Sometimes you find an actor who won’t fit an Anurag Kashyap film but would be perfect for a Vishal Bhardwaj project or vice versa.      For example, with Sushant Singh Rajput, Rajkummar Rao and Amit Sadh in Kai Po Che, I had a tough time convincing Gattu (Abhishek Kapoor) and the studio because so much money was riding on three newcomers. All three were rejected multiple times. With Sushant, they said he’s just a TV actor and it took me two months to convince everyone that he was the right choice. They were finally convinced when I showed them an audition of all the three of them together where their chemistry was evident.      If I don’t meet new talent, how will I find them? I am surviving because of them. On an average day, 400 aspiring actors walk into my office. Where else will they go? Directors won’t meet them. And studios have corporate offices which you can’t even enter. My doors are always open.