Navi Mumbai: There has been a huge jump in the total number of voters for the upcoming Panvel City Municipal Corporation ( ) election. The number of voters went up by about 268% for the ensuing polls. 

 This has also led to many filing   that may not be resolved before the polls. 
 
 But most complainants can cast their votes in their old wards. Civic sources attributed most of the complaints related to address change to voters’ apathy to resolve them on time. 
 
 The number of voters has gone up to 4,25,453 for the upcoming polls from 1,15,767 for the 2011 election. The Panvel civic body has received around 2,60,481 complaints in two rounds. As most pertain to the problem of address change that falls under the domain of the State Election Commission (SEC), they have been rejected. 
 
 PCMC received 73,481 complaints in the second round (March 27-31) and 1.87 lakh in the first round (March 14-18), said Manish Hiware, assistant commissioner of Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation. Hiware is heading the election department that will monitor the ensuing polls. The civic body rectified some 40,000 complaints that dealt with issues apart from address changes in the first round .
 
 “People should have changed their addresses between October 1 last year and January 5 this year, as per the notification issued by the tehsildar’s office. This issue is not under our purview. So, a majority of such complaints will be rejected. But voters can cast their franchise at designated polling booths in their old wards,’’ added Hiware.
 
 “Political parties have lodged the maximum number of complaints and we have formed 8-9 teams of 30-35 persons, who will verify the grievances,’’ said election department officials.
 
 The commission will publish the final voters’ list on April 12 and the list of polling booths in the 20 wards on April 17 . The voters’ list as per polling booths will be published on April 22 before announcing the election date.
 
 The offices of municipal commissioners of Ulhasnagar and Panvel were swapped, following a state government order. The SEC had asked for transfer of former PCMC commissioner   to ensure a free and fair poll. 
 
 Shinde now heads the Ulhasnagar civic body and   has taken charge of PCMC recently.
 
