MUMBAI: In a freak tragedy, two siblings, including an eight-month-old, died after a   burst in a Bandra East   pocket on Friday morning. They were flung into the air by the sudden force of water and then they drowned in it. 

 Locals said eight-month-old Vighnesh Doiphode was rushed to Bandra’s Bhabha hospital while his sister Priyanka was taken to V N Desai Hospital, where they were both declared dead on arrival. The Doiphodes had shifted to the slum only a few days ago. 
 
 The children were playing near the 92-year-old pipeline outside their shanty opposite   when the tragedy occurred. Around four to five litres of water was lost before supply was turned off. 
 
 Municipal commissioner Ajoy Mehta has sought a report from hydraulic department officials about the incident. “It is very unfortunate and I have asked water department officials to investigate what went wrong,” said Mehta.
 
 Around 10.45pm on Friday, the 72-inch pipeline from the BMC’s Bhandup complex   at the Indra Nagar slum. More than a dozen illegal shanties are situated right on top of the pipeline. The children lived in one of these shanties. A civic official at the site said the slums around the pipeline were illegal and had come up recently, and most were just plastic and bamboo structures. “As soon as we were informed of the pipe valve burst, we turned off the water supply and began repair work,” said an official.
 
 Local corporator Haji Mohammed Halim Khan of Shiv Sena said they were trying to help residents vacate the slum considering the water had entered most shanties.
 
 Alka Sasane, assistant municipal commissioner, H-East Ward, said there was already a high court order in place that 10 metres on either side of a water pipeline should remain free of encroachments. “Since this is a water main, we had asked the occupants to vacate the area in the past as well,” said Sasane.
 
 In 2009, the high court had directed the BMC to clear the slum and keep a 10-metre buffer zone around pipelines. The demolition is being carried out in four phases by the BMC.
 
 The H-East Ward, which comprises Kalina, Santa Cruz and Bandra East, has as many as 2,006 hutments on either side of the pipeline and work on examining their papers is on, said officials. There are plans to raze the slums by October. The residents of these slums, which are illegal, are not eligible for alternate accommodation. 
 
