MUMBAI: The railway police are probing the terror angle as a couple of recent derailments in north India pointed to the role of terrorists. Also, Tuesday's incident came just two days before Republic Day. The entire railway machinery, including the RPF and the GRP, is on high alert.

 GRP commissioner Niket Kaushik said an offence has been registered under the Indian Railways Act's section 150-A (attempting to wreck a train by putting an obstacle in its way). "The intention was to cause massive damage," he said.
 
 The police are tracking records of all calls made on mobile phones in the area. It was assistant loco pilot   who first noticed the rail on the track of the   on Tuesday night. Were he not alert, the piece of metal would have certainly escaped notice as the area had low visibility.
 
 On Tuesday night, more than 700 passengers on the Madgaon-Dadar Jan Shatabdi Express had a narrow escape as the train halted just 30 metres short of a heavy obstacle -- a 380kg piece of rail, over seven metres long, kept on the train's path near Diva station. The picture of the piece of rail lying on the tracks has gone viral on social media.
 
 Though the train was moving at 15kmph, had it hit the rail, it may have derailed, said a railway official. "Of course, had the train hit the rail at speed, the result would be a disaster."
 
 As the train was approaching the spot after leaving Diva station, Chinchole saw smoke coming from a nearby dumping ground. It was so hazy that even the powerful headlight of the diesel locomotive couldn't properly penetrate it. But as luck would have it, Chinchole's eyes were drawn to the track. Upon spotting the rail a few tens of metres ahead, he first hit the brakes and then alerted pilot  , who too applied the brakes on his control panel.
 
 The possibility of the involvement of a rail pilfering group is also being looked into. A source said that some in the police believe that a sabotage operation would have taken into account the fact that trains move slowly for a few hundred metres after Diva station because of the presence of a crosstrack.
 
 "A slow moving train can derail, but the effect wouldn't be catastrophic--something terror groups would desire," the source said. Nevertheless, emphasising on the sabotage angle, a   official said that before the Jan Shatabdi, a Karjat-CST fast local had passed the spot (700 m from Diva station) at 10.23pm. "It did not come across any obstacle.
 
 Perhaps the miscreants were waiting for the Jan Shatabdi, coming from Goa. They had only 17 minutes to place the heavy rail on the track as the Goa train halted at 10:40pm," said an official.
 
