GURUGRAM: Demanding better civic amenities in Sushant Lok-I, hundreds of residents blocked traffic on the road connecting Vyapar Kendra and Huda City Centre on Saturday morning for over two hours. The protesting residents said bad roads and inadequate water and power supply are among the pet peeves in their area. 

 They urged the locality should be brought under the purview of   without any further delay.
 
 The protest against the poor civic infrastructure started around 9.30pm and the residents refused to allow traffic movement till 12pm when joint commissioner of MCG, Y S Gupta, eventually came and assured their demands would be heeded to. The locality was set up by the builder, Ansal API, around 20 years ago, however, it has not been handed over to MCG yet.
 
 The protesters stressed chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had announced the MCG takeover of the locality a year ago, however, the promise has not been fulfilled. 
 
 BJP, ruling the Centre and the state, as well as the corporation, has failed to provide them a respite, residents alleged. 
 
 “We have been forced to hit the streets as we do not want to suffer anymore,” said Jasmeet Kaur, a resident.
 
 “The government says the locality is a private area and the authorities are not accountable for development work or provision of civic amenities. But then why are the residents paying property taxes for over a year,” asked N K Sehgal, a senior citizen living in the area.
 
 According to the residents, they have been suffering as the locality does not have proper roads, an adequate power infrastructure and insufficient water supply. 
 
 Gupta assured the residents that the corporation was trying to expedite the development work in the area. “We have told the residents that our representation has already been sent. As soon as we get a nod from Chandigarh, we will start the work,” Gupta told TOI. He also advised the residents to speak to the department of town country and planning to expedite the matter further.
 
 The protesting residents said they are already in the process of fixing up a meeting with the director of town country and planning, T L Satyaprakash. However if things do not go as planned, they warned they would hit the streets once again within a week and this time on a weekday.
 
 
