NEW DELHI: A century on first-class debut by teenage batsman   has taken defending champions Mumbai into the final of the 2016-17  , with a target of 251 achieved for the loss of four wickets on day five of the semi-final against Tamil Nadu in Rajkot. 

 
 
 
 Aged 17 years and 57 days, Shaw scored 120 off 175 deliveries in the second innings to join Sachin Tendulkar, Amol Muzumdar, Ajinkya Rahane, Jatin Paranjpe and Sameer Dighe, among others, as Mumbai batsmen to score centuries on first-class debut. He reached the landmark off his 152nd delivery faced, with a single into the offside and in doing so, became the 14th player to score a hundred on Ranji Trophy debut.
 
 
 
 
 This is Mumbai’s 46th Ranji final, and they will now target their 42nd title when they meet Gujarat at Indore’s Holkar Stadium on January 10. Mumbai’s opponents in next week’s summit clash finished just behind them in Group A with 26 points and in the knockouts beat Odisha on the first-innings lead and Jharkhand by 123 runs to reach only their second final in 83 years of the Ranji Trophy. 
 
 In dramatic scenes on Thursday, Shaw very nearly did not get to three figures. On 99, he steered a wide delivery from seam bowler   and was caught at short-third man, and then immediately swung his bat in disgust, but replays showed that Shankar had just failed to get his back leg inside the line. Moments later, Shaw scampered a single in front of point and got to his century. The Mumbai dressing room stood to cheer Shaw’s achievement, which the batsman himself celebrated with a spread of the arms and a boyish grin.
 
 Shaw was out for 4 in the first innings, but used his opportunity to make an immediate impact on first-class debut and help live up to the expectations that were raised when, in 2013 as a 14-year-old, he scored 546 off 330 balls in a Harris Shield match. In Mumbai’s successful chase, he put on 90 for the opening wicket with Praful Waghela (36), 91 for the second with Shreyas Iyer (40), 57 for the third with Suryakumar Yadav (34) and was out ten runs short of the finish line. On 120, Shaw mistimed a slog sweep off Aushik Srinivas and was well taken by a running T Natarajan near the midwicket boundary.
 
 Mumbai skipper   and Siddhesh Lad ensured there were no further hiccups. Victory over Tamil Nadu was the fifth outright this season for the Group A leaders. 
 
 Shaw was drafted into Mumbai’s squad for the semi-final against Tamil Nadu, having played five matches for the Indian Under-19 team that won the Youth Asia Cup in December. He shot to prominence for that astonishing innings more than three years ago, for his school Rizvi Springfield versus St Francis D’Assisi, which featured 85 fours and five sixes. It was, at the time, the highest score in school record and was beaten by another Mumbai school cricketer, Pranav Dhanawade, in January 2016 when he made 1000 runs in an innings. 
 
