MUMBAI: The Bombay high court on Friday asked the Centre to file an affidavit and place its stand on an issue concerning forfeiture of “benami properties" in Mumbai of prime 1993 bomb blasts absconding accused   Dossa. The HC had begun hearing a plea filed by relatives of Mohhamed Dossa who said they were owners of the dozen-odd properties and that it had no nexus with Dossa or any of his allegedly “ill gotten" money. Mohammed’s brother   was held guilty as a conspirator by a special   court in the 1993 blasts case. But within a week   died of a heart attack while in custody at JJ hospital.

 There were detention orders against Mohammed under Smugglers and Foreign Exchange Manipulators (Forfeiture of Property) Act (SAFEMA). After he absconded the Centre initiated attachment proceedings of his “benami" properties, alleging that the properties were his from “illgotten money".
 
 Mohammed’s wife Abida, brothers Haroon and Mustafa, sisters Yasmin and Sabina and his parents, in whose names the properties are denied any nexus between the allegedly ill-gotten money and the ownership of the properties.
 
 There were at least two rounds of attachments by a competent authority under SAFEMA. After the authority attached even tenanted premises occupied by relatives, they sought a stay before an appellate tribunal on the grounds that they had earlier moved the HC over forfeiture orders of the ownership properties the issue has yet to be decided. The HC had earlier passed status quo orders.
 
 The court asked the Centre to file a reply on whether an issue pending before the appellate authority under the Smugglers and Foreign Exchange Manipulators (Forfeiture of Property) Act (SAFEMA) and petitions already admitted in the high court were connected. Counsel for Safema HS Venegaonkar said that the issues were different since the challenges, before the appellate tribunal and in the HC pertain to totally different set of properties.
 
 The relatives represented by counsel Prasad Dhakephalkar said the issues were connected and sought a stay from the HC on the appellate tribunal proceedings. The proceedings pending there concerned order of forfeiture of properties in the city where the relatives say they are residing as tenants. The relatives had moved the HC against a 2011 order of the appellate tribunal which declined to stay forfeiture proceedings. Properties forfeited include shops, flats.
 
 A bench of justices Ranjit More and   directed the Centre to place its stand on record in two weeks.
 
