times news network

 Bengaluru: The burglar who drilled a hole in the floor of a lodge room to enter a jewellery shop below and made off with 1.3kg of gold and 14kg of silver was arrested within 24 hours of the heist. Mohammed Mustafa Hussain, 32, had submitted a fake voter ID to check into the lodge and that turned out to be his undoing. 
 
 DCP-West M N Anuchet said Hussain was arrested near Kitturu, around 45km from Hubballi, on Sunday night. A resident of Gomatipura in Gujarat, Hussain had boarded a bus to Belagavi. The driver alerted police and the bus was intercepted midway. A special team from the Bengaluru West police division arrested Hussain and recovered the entire loot from him besides Rs 2000 in cash.
 
 Hussain had been staying for over three weeks in room No 102 of Platinum Lodge, right above Kanchan Jewellers on the ground floor in Cottonpet Main Road. He drilled a hole in the floor and burgled the shop on Saturday. The theft was discovered by the shop owner, Himmat Prakash, when he opened the shop on Sunday morning. 
 
 “We had sent Hussain’s picture, captured from the fake voter ID he had given to the lodge and from CCTV footage from the hotel, to police stations across the state. Our staff showed the photographs of the suspect to drivers of government and private buses all over the state, particularly north Karnataka as the fake ID bore a Kalaburagi address,” Anuchet said. “A private bus driver alerted us on Sunday night that a man with a resemblance was aboard his Belagavi-bound bus. Immediately, our special team, which was in Hubballi by the time, chased the bus and managed to intercept it near Kitturu by midnight.”
 
 Police said Hussain had used the same modus operandi elsewhere as well. “Hussain claimed to have committed similar offences in Belgaum and Mangaluru last year. He had stolen gold from shops by staying in hotel rooms above them,” Anuchet said.
 
 In the latest heist too, Hussain had initially taken up room 101 but later realised that the gold shop was below room 102. He then told lodge staff that he needed a bigger room and shifted to 102.
 
 Police said Hussain looted the shop on Saturday night. “He checked out of the lodge at 5.30am on Sunday and boarded a Hubballi-bound bus at 6am. He arrived in Dharwad at 4pm. After eating, he went to a barber shop and got his head tonsured to put police off his trail. Saying he wanted to travel to Mumbai immediately, he enquired with many private bus agents but could not get a seat. So he boarded a Belgaum-bound bus and had planned to head to Mumbai en route Ahmedabad,” an investigating officer said.
 
 Hussain first visited Bengaluru in the first week of June and scouted for jewellery shops with lodges above them. “He roamed all over Majestic and later zeroed in on Kanchan Jewellers which was on the ground floor, below Platinum Lodge,” a police officer said.
 
 
