AMRITSAR: The   and the DSGMC on Saturday launched a joint movement to reclaim land of the historical Gurdwara Gyan Godhri situated at Har ki Pauri in Haridwar (Uttarakhand) under the aegis of Akal Takht, which gave a call to the Sikhs across the globe to recite Japji Sahib on May 14 for the success of the movement.

 The DSGMC president, Manjit Singh GK, arrived here to meet the jathedar of Akal Takht Giani   on the issue. Later talking to newspersons, Gurbachan Singh said in the past many individuals had begun movements for reclaiming the gurdwara property but now both SGPC and DSGMC had joined hands on the issue and launched a movement under the aegis of the Akal Takht.
 
 Gurdwara Gyan Godhri was constructed in 1935 in the memory of Guru Nanak Dev on the property given by the Landran Estate. In 1979, the then Uttar Pradesh (UP) government (Uttarakhand was carved out in 2000) had acquired land where the gurdwara was situated for the beautification of Har ki Pauri. The land was not returned to Sikhs despite government offering alternate places to the evacuees, the DSGMC and SGPC have claimed. Later, the government allotted an alternate place for the gurudwara, but the land was disputed between the governments of Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand.
 
 Gurbachan Singh directed the Sikh individuals and organizations to recite Japji Sahib on May 14. “The next course of action will be announced on May 14 after holding discussions with other Sikh high priests,” he said. The jathedar also directed Sikh bodies in Haridwar to approach the Akal Takht secretariat with reports on the present situation of the gurdwara.
 
 GK said that, “We will not compromise on the site. The gurdwara will be constructed on its original site only.” He further said that earlier there was dispute over the land between Uttarakhand and UP but now it had been identified that the land was situated in Uttarakhand. “We will meet the Union government and governments of both Uttarakhand and UP for the purpose,” he added.
 
