MUMBAI: Armed with 82 seats in the 227-strong BMC--a quantum leap from its 2012 tally of 32--the BJP is all set to contest  's No. 1 status in Mumbai.

 The poll results clearly show that CM Devendra Fadnavis has emerged as  's charismatic leader, a veritable vote gatherer. This should set the alarm bells ringing in Matoshree, said BJP watchers on Thursday as it became clear that the party was set to sweep the polls in major cities, including Pune, Nashik, Nagpur and Amravati.
 
 For a party which could never make much headway in the city of its birth and had to remain content playing a second fiddle to the Sena during the Balasaheb Thackeray era in the 1980s and `90s, the Thursday poll bonanza, especially in Mumbai was a windfall. In 1980, the BJP was formed in the state's capital.
 
 “In our earlier years we could barely win 12 to 15 seats in the BMC. In Sena's raj we were always cursed with second-class citizenship,“ said Shrikant Pandey,a   functionary. “The party of backbenchers is now set to lead from the front,“ he remarked.
 
 A BJP minister on Thursday hinted that his party was keen on setting up its rule in the BMC, minus the Sena and with “strategic“ help from the Sharad Pawar-led NCP, which has won nine seats, the MNS (seven seats) and other smaller groups.
 
 On the other hand, the BJP, in an astute move, is willing to keep its doors open for the Sena--with a price, though. State BJP president Raosaheb Danve has made it clear that Matoshree should take the first step for reconciliation.
 
 “They on their own left the saffron alliance in a huff in the run-up to the civic elections. Now it's up to them to make up their mind and come back to us,“ Danve told mediapersons recently. This will make matters difficult for Matoshree as going back to the BJP will be seen by   as a climbdown.
 
 Moreover, there are reports that the BJP will, if a reunion proposal is put forward by Matoshree, demand Mumbai mayoralty for twoand-a-half years and chairmanship of key statutory committees, for instance, standing, improvements or BEST committee, it is learnt. The CM has also said transparency will be the central plank for any post-poll talks with the Sena.
 
 This, say experts, will put Sena president Uddhav Thackeray in a spot. Fadnavis visited Vasant Smriti, the city BJP's Dadar headquarters, on Thursday and joined the party celebrations. “The CM will decide on the party's future course of action in the BMC,“ said Atul Bhatkhal kar, BJP MLA from Kandivli.Bhatkhalkar slammed Thackeray for his statement, which the Sena president made immediately after poll results were out, accusing the BJP of using power and money to win seats in the corporation.
 
 “Thackeray should wake up and smell the coffee. By accusing us of using power and money to win elections he is insulting the mandate. If he takes a close look at the election results all over the state he will realise it's BJP everywhere -in Pune, Nashik, Amravati and Nagpur,“ Bhatkhalkar pointed out.
 
 There is near-unanimity in the Maharashtra BJP that the CM has emerged as the party's lucky mascot in the statewide civic elections.Many say the CM has left his party colleagues by the wayside with his razor-sharp political acumen, organisational skills and the ability to set up a robust party machinery for elections to 10 municipal corporations and zilla parishads.
 
 Realising that the Sena, after walking out on the BJP, will launch a virulent campaign against his party, Fadnavis got himself into top gear, without relying on party colleagues, to take on Uddhav Thackeray during the hectic campaign on the streets of Mumbai.
 
 Significantly, by repeatedly raising the issue of ensuring transparency in the BMC administration, the CM put the Sena on the mat, while lending weight to the poll campaign, said a city BJP functionary.
 
 Fadnavis' 'Me Shabda Deto' (It's my word of honour) campaign clearly indicated that the BJP was ready for personalised politics in a bid to take on the Thackerays on Mumbai's soil, said political analysts.
 
