PUNE: With 50 per cent reservation for women candidates and State Election Commission’s stress to motivate women voters to vote, leading parties in the city are struggling to put up names of star women campaigners to woo the fairer sex.

 Only a little over two weeks remain to campaign and party workers have been discussing names that represent the parties at the state and national level. However, under condition of anonymity, party workers have stated that there aren’t many names among star women campaigners, who will be lined up for the corporation elections. 
 
 While   (BJP) is expected to have Union textile minister Smriti Irani, MP Poonam Mahajan, rural development and women and child welfare minister Pankaja Munde lined up as their star campaigners, the party wants to ensure that all efforts are put forth to reach out to the women population. BJP has already conducted several marches to reach out to women voters. 
 
 “Over the last two months, we have reached out to women voters from different areas and educated them about the panel system through our representatives. We want to maximise the percentage of women voters and we will focus on star women campaigners to hold sabhas,” said city BJP president  .
 
 While MP Supriya Sule will be the star campaigner for the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), other noted women campaigners include NCP ladies wing president Chitra Wagh and MLC Vidya Chavan, “We will have all local level former MLAs focusing on specific areas. The women campaigners will work towards reaching out to women voters,” said a NCP leader from the city. The party, however, is yet to zero in on more names. 
 
 The same is the case with Congress. MLA Praniti Shinde and women’s wing president   are among leaders who are known faces. The party is yet to confirm any names from the centre. “The All India Congress Committee will finalise the list. Right now, we only have state-level leaders campaigning for the elections. Nothing has been finalised yet,” said a party worker. 
 
 In the case of Shiv Sena, spokesperson Neelam Gorhe is among the lead star campaigners while the other names yet to be finalised.
 
 In 2011, the state assembly unanimously approved a 50 per cent reservation for women in local bodies with an aim to ensure greater participation in the political process. However, despite reservations, most women contest the elections only because of the reservation, as per various studies commissioned by the State Election Commission.
 
 The latest voting statistics across ten big cities in Maharashtra that will be going to polls in February reveal a large gender voting registration gap. The statistics put forth by the commission states that only 818 women per 1000 men have registered as voters. While Pune (925), PCMC (966), Solapur (936) and Nagpur (954) have shown considerably higher voter sex ratio, the sex ratio for Mumbai (Suburban) stands at 827. 
 
 Several women voters in the city said that they haven’t yet understood the panel system and the candidates should educate them so that they can be motivated to vote. “The four panel system is confusing. They should educate us. Moreover women campaigners should reach out to us,” said Snehalata Surve, a first time voter from the city.
 
 
