COIMBATORE: Last September, Chennai racer   was arrested on charges of drunk driving and slapped with culpable homicide after his car crashed into a row of autorickshaws on RK Salai killing an auto driver. That could well have been the end of his professional career, but the 23-year-old, who is out on bail, has made a 'comeback' to the racing circuit. 

 Vikash came third in the third race of the opening round of the 20th JK Tyre FMSCI National Racing Championship at the   here on Sunday - his first event after that fateful night. "I don't view this as a comeback. It was my off-season and that is why I wasn't in action," he told TOI after the race. Though the racer preferred not to talk about the fateful night, he said that it was a traumatic time. "It was difficult, but I am not going back to the past," he said.
 
 After the incident, the Federation of Motor Sports Club of India said Vikash's licence was suspended, but it was later clarified that he could race because he hadn't been pronounced guilty yet. Vikash acknowledged that the comeback wouldn't have been possible without the help of FMSCI president Akbar Ebrahim, who took over in January.
 
 “I will always be indebted to Akbar sir.Since the day I started racing he has guided me. Especially during this phase when I needed a bit of help, he was there for me which I will be ever grateful for,“ Vikash added. The driver started working on his fitness after he got the FMSCI nod to race again. “The preparation was more to do with keeping myself fit throughout the year. I was working a lot on my fitness and also did some high-altitude training in Kodaikanal to get ready .“
 
 Talking about his performance, Vikash said: “I'm satisfied because I have learnt a lot over the weekend. I'm driving the Formula BMWs in a competitive environment for the first time here. I hadn't got to drive the car until Friday. As a result, I didn't have much time to learn about the car. If you look at the races, I had the pace but I need more time to work on the consistency. I'm working on it. My performances got better as the weekend wore on.“ While Vikash was happy with his effort, he admitted that he could have done even better than his third-placed finish if not for a slight error. Having started at pole position for the race due to the reverse grid formation, he lost out to   at the end.
 
 “The last part of the circuit has been re-laid. It's a very narrow section of the circuit and I was dragged outside, losing out on the lead as a result,“ he rued. The 23-year-old's next racing commitment will be during the second round of this very event in August and he is confident of not repeating his mistakes.
 
