HYDERABAD: In a move that will raise the hackles of  , the promoter of   International Airport at Shamshabad, the TRS government is all set to seek an exemption from the Centre from the 'no airport within 150 km radius of a greenfield airport' rule so that an airport can come up at Warangal.

 The exemption will be sought from the Union ministry of civil aviation and Airport Authority of India (AAI). “The Telangana government will send the request seeking exemption to the distance rule to the Centre soon. We hope GMR Group, which developed the RGIA, would not have any objection for this. Moreover, the Centre is encouraging regional connectivity in the country,“ VN Bharat Reddy, director of Aviation (Infrastructure and Investment department) of Telangana told TOI.
 
 When both undivided AP and GMR Group had entered into a memorandum of understanding (MOU) in 2004 for development of international airport at Shamshabad, a clause was incorporated in the agreement that no new airport would be permitted within 150 km radius of the RGIA for a period of 30 years. The international airport at Shamshabad became operational in March 2008. Officials said the rule was incorporated as the airport was developed by the private group which invested several thousands of crores in the project.
 
 But after formation of Telangana, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao said the state requires two more airports keeping in view the population growth in the state especially around Hyderabad. The requirement is necessary if the proposed   (ITIR) in Hyderabad becomes a reality. Towards that end, KCR took up the issue with Union civil aviation minister Ashok Gajapathi Raju. later, while speaking to the media on another occasion, the civil aviation minister said the Centre was not averse to amending the existing rules and improving regional connectivity in the country.
 
 Now the exemption is seen as immediate requirement as the government is keen on developing Warangal and Kothagudem airports in the next couple of years. While the Warangal airport falls within 150-km radius of Hyderabad airport, Kothagudem does not fall in the stipulated distance.
 
 Industries department officials said Warangal airport at Mamnoor existed till the early 1980s but became non-operational due to lack of demand, as was the case with some other airports in cluding the one at Adilabad. The undivided AP had entered into an MoU with the   (AAI) for upgrading the airport at Warangal in March 30, 2007. Soon after that, AAI agreed to take up the development of the Warangal airport and asked for additional land needed for the development free of cost and free from all encumbrances. The AAI has said they would take up the development once the land is handed over to them. While the existing land available is 748 acres, the AAI has requested an additional 438 acres.
 
 “The district administration will complete the land acquisition after getting orders from the government,“ Warangal (urban) collector Amrapali Kata said.
 
