Jaitpura/Panchala/Sankad/Jalore:   of Jalore that don't exist even on   seem to be neglected by the   and   deployed at Sanchor and nearby areas. 

 Torrential rain on July 24 has literally converted farm land into river beds. The villagers alleged that officials have not learnt anything from such rainfall and destruction in 2015. They alleged the state government's initiative of letting NREGA workers and sarpanchs to construct and repair dams proved fatal. They alleged that efforts by government under 'Mukhyamantri Jal Swavlamban Abhiyan' in which large number of new anicuts and water recharge models were constructed are responsible for the inundation.
 
 TOI on Monday visited some of the most neglected villages, including Jaitpura, Panchala, Sankhad, Chaudhariyon Ki Dhani, Rajputoon Ka Baas and Daliton Ka Bas in the interiors of Jalore and found almost no one from the local administration, NDRF or any other rescue teams.
 
 "The Jaitpura dam started getting water up to 40 to 50 feet in the morning on July 24. Many of us went to the dam area and asked the person concerned to open its gate so that water could take its natural course. But the man deployed was busy in saving his life. Overflowing water damaged a road bridge, farm land and entered various hamlets. Thankfully, all this took place during day when we could see what was happening and saved our life. Had the torrential rainfall come during night, the toll would have been be more," recalled Mohan Meghwal whose six bigha of farm land was washed away.
 
 Meghwal added that many like him can't even earmark the portion of land which is now converted into a dry river.
 
 Asked why a rainfall varying from 400 to 500 mm could make such a bad impact, Ratan Devasi, former Congress MLA from Raniwada, alleged, "Similar rainfall and damage took place in 2015. It appears that the administration including disaster management department, irrigation department and water resources department have not learnt their lessons. Dams broken at that time were repaired half-heartedly. Likewise, NREGA workers were assigned the task of repairing of dams that took proved fatal as Jaitpura dam broke and water came inside nearby hamlets and villages."
 
 "Likewise, anicuts and khadeens were constituted without checking its viability under Mukhyamantri Jal Swavlamban Abhiyan," alleged 90-year-old Mansa Ram of Panchala village. He said that he had never seen the kind of rain it took place on July 24 and 25.
 
 Majority of the roads to villages connecting each other are literally washed away while many families are still living in tents that too arranged by villagers themselves.
 
 "Our hamlet Moila Ka Bas is completely inundated. We have been provided tent by the tent dealer of our village while food is coming from people of nearby villages," said Allah Baksh residing in Moila Ka Bas, an hamlet having almost 30 families of Bohra Muslims engaged in making pots and selling them.
 
 People in these villages are also annoyed with the fact that neither district administration nor local representatives attempted to even visit them for once. "Mhaarey Haathey Koi Ni Aayo, Poni Mun Hab Khatam (Nobody body came closer to us. Water has damaged everything)," said Hukmaram Bishnoi of Sankhad village. 
 
 
