LUCKNOW: At least 90% of the   which were distributed to students and locals on the occasion of   on March 20 in the past two years have failed to attract sparrows, says a study by a  . The study based on   says the nests attracted birds in some of the urban pockets but not in rural areas. Imitating the European design of the wooden nest without tweaking it as per the local requirements could be the reason. 

 "It needs a lot of research on why the wooden nests failed to get birds. It was the state government's money which was spent on manufacturing the nests," said ecologist TK Roy who has also submitted his study to senior officials in the forest department. 
 
 Though on Monday only 150-odd wooden bird houses were distributed by the forest department in Lucknow zoo, in 2015 and 2016, there was mass distribution of bird houses after then SP government pushed   conservation in the state. But the study has blamed the design of the wooden nests for the failure. It was only in some of the nests that birds took home for some time before they flew away, said Roy who visited districts to collect first-hand information on bird houses by talking to forest guards and range officers who distributed wooden nests in their area, teachers and principals of the schools where bird houses were given to students and also locals who fixed these nests in their homes. The survey was done for post-breeding months for sparrows, between November to February. 
 
 Umendra Sharma, PCCF (wildlife), UP, said he was yet to receive the report. "If someone suggests a change, we are open to it but the design we chose had been tested by experts and it has been used by other states as well."
 
 Besides hanging a nest, it is also essential to keep food and water for the birds. "The nest should be placed away from direct sun and also at a considerable height so that sparrows feel safe," said the official. He also said that the department had received lot of feedback on birds nesting in the wooden bird houses which were distributed free of cost. 
 
 The nests measuring 15.2 cm x 12.7 cm x 7.6 cm with an entry hole of 3.2 cm was improved and designed from Standard European Sparrow Nest Box by a Nasik-based zoology professor. "It was successful in Nasik but it failed in UP. It needs research and improvement," said Roy. 
 
 
