CHENNAI: Kalyan Jewellers on Monday announced that an affiliate of Warburg Pincus, a global private equity firm, is investing Rs 500 crore taking the total investment to Rs 1,700 crore in the company.

 The jewellery chain looks to improve its network in the country and expand its operations overseas. 
 
 In the next three years, the company aims at building presence in Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh and add new showrooms in Mumbai, Delhi and  . 
 
 Kalyan is also looking to expand international operations by entering into new markets like Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, Oman, Singapore and Malaysia. The company will also bolster its presence in the UAE where it already has 13 showrooms.
 
 Commenting on the development, T S Kalyanaraman, chairman and managing director, Kalyan Jewellers, said, “The investment by Warburg Pincus is a vindication of the strong growth trajectory. The company plans to nearly double its presence to 200 plus showrooms using a combination of equity, debt and internal accruals.”
 
 “We will continue with our strategy to innovate and expand our product portfolio to fulfill local customer preferences across regions. Kalyan is also working on a blueprint for a foray into the ecommerce segment which will complement our physical retail network. We believe that the curb in cash transactions will see a shift from the unorganised sector to organised players like Kalyan. The rationalisation of taxes under the GST regime will increase operational efficiencies significantly,’’ he said.
 
 Vishal Mahadevia, MD, Warburg Pincus India Pvt Ltd, said, “We see a tremendous opportunity for Kalyan Jewellers to build a strong branded design-led jewellery business. Warburg Pincus’ additional investment will be used to accelerate the company’s growth efforts in network expansion and pursuing acquisition opportunities. We continue to be impressed with the founders who have a well defined vision for the company and look forward to working with them to realise the full potential of Kalyan Jewellers."
 
 The company has initiated the process of converting its 630 ‘My Kalyan’ customer service outlets into mini diamond stores to tap into the growing demand for diamond jewellery.
 
 
