NAGPUR: The state education department’s recent decision to allow aided school management to have a say while appointing teachers from the “excess teachers pool” has not gone down well with many.

 Coming out strongly against the move, MLC (teachers constituency) Nago   demanded an immediate roll back of the decision and said that it may promote corruption. Ganar said, “ The move goes against the basic principle of transparency and I have written to the education minister asking for this decision to be scrapped.”
 
 While speaking to TOI, Ganar, who is known to be a close confidante of union minister  , said, “What is stopping the school trustee from getting in touch with the teacher beforehand and entering into a financial arrangement? Or even the teacher can get in touch with a school and do the same. Education minister Vinod Tawde has gone on record talking about ending corruption in the appointment process. How can such a thing be allowed?” 
 
 The MLC added that the March 31 circular which mentions this particular change, has been signed by state education commissioner  . The commissioner was unavailable for comment. 
 
 However, a school principal said that this may not be that bad an idea. “As a school you want to have the best possible teacher appointed and if we have no say in the quality of staff we are getting, then there’s no way we can guarantee to maintain existing standard of education. Also this need not be an unilateral decision and I am sure the education department too will have a say in this,” said the principal. 
 
 If the teachers working in a school exceed the allowed number, based on the Pupil-Teacher Ratio (PTR) formula they are termed as excess. For Std I-V the   is 60:2, 61:3, 91:4 and 121:4. For Std VI-VIII it starts from 35:1 and then multiples of it. The way it works is that all such teachers are put on a surplus list according to seniority. The seniormost teacher gets first choice from pool of available vacant posts within the district. For those lower down the pecking order there might not be any vacant posts remaining. Such teachers can be transferred outside of Nagpur district.
 
