NAGPUR: Over 100 postgraduate students of National Power Training Institute ( ) on South Ambazari Road on Thursday stormed their institute head DM Lokhande’s office over poor campus placements this year.

 The students complained that so far only 19 students were able to get jobs and even they didn’t get any good offers. Last year, 92 students were successfully placed. They blamed this year’s poor show on the alleged apathy of the current director alleging he failed to attract companies to NPTI.
 
 In the morning, the students had reached Lokhande’s office and demanded a written assurance on the issue but   suggested holding discussion with only 10 students. The students insisted that any talk should take place before everyone.
 
 The one-year diploma in thermal plant engineering course would be completed in September. They said the officials claimed power sector was facing a recession and therefore there were no jobs. “NPTI Faridabad has placed 50 students. How is that possible,” they asked.
 
 NPTI was in the news a couple of months back when its governing council had planned to stop admissions to its BE (power engineering) course for this academic year. Later, the Nagpur bench of   granted an interim stay on NPTI’s plans. The governing council decided on December 2, 2016.
 
 Though NPTI is a unaided college, it is one of the most sought after for the engineering due to its 100% placement record as most power companies are located in and around   region.
 
 Despite repeated attempts, Lakhande couldn’t be contacted. The students said, “They promoted the course as having high job prospects. In their admission brochure over 150 companies are listed as where NPTI students get employed. Many of us have taken loans, some have sold their assets and properties in the hope of getting jobs.”
 
 The aggrieved students claimed each of them had spent at least Rs3lakh including fee, accommodation and food in pursing the course. They also said Lokhande didn’t treat them well and had never heeded their suggestions regarding placements. The previous head of   had a good rapport with the industry and therefore placements were never an issue, they said.
 
 “The 19 students are getting offers of Rs5,000 a month. When we pointed this out, Lokhande blamed us saying we were incompetent and did not study well. Out of the nine NPTIs across the country, Nagpur has got all toppers,” they said adding they would wait until Friday to decide their next move.
 
