Nagpur: Students of Ramdeobaba College of Engineering celebrated their traditional day in a unique way by dedicating the day to   Maharaj, in a festival titled ‘Rajmudra 2.0’.

 Several boys wore the traditional ‘pheta’ or turban in saffron colour. Some girls came dressed in saris, while others were in ethnic wear.
 
 A unique exhibition of fort components was displayed near the college’s computer centre, under the guidance of Atul Guru, an exponent of Shivaji’s forts and member of Durga Pratishthan.
 
 About 100 models made of terracotta and mud were showcased — the mosque at Panhala fort, the mosque at Gavilgarh fort, Narnala fort, the gates of Sinhagarh, Shivaji’s military leader Tanaji Malsure’s memorial, Meghadambhari in Raigad where Shivaji’s coronation took place and entrance of Manikgad fort among others.
 
 “Through the components, the attention shifts from the mere facade of a fort to its inner parts, increasing awareness about the unique structural designs and how symbols played an active part in building the forts,” said Guru.
 
 These components were made by participants of Fort Expo organized last year in January, and preserved by the pratishthan. Also, a ten-feet replica of Shivneri fort belonging to the corporation was brought for the benefit of students.
 
 Sumant Tekade, a faculty at SB Jain Institute of Management, delivered a talk on ‘personality development, the Shivajian way.’ He started the talk by telling the audience that the Maratha Infantry was the only one to have a battle cry based on a human — ‘Bol Chattrapati Maharaj Ki.’
 
 “All other infantries recall their gods before going to war in order to infuse soldiers with energy. One can imagine the power and reverence Shivaji Maharaj commanded that even about 384 years later, an event like this has been organized in his memory,” he said.
 
 He gave examples of Amitabh Bachchan and Sachin Tendulkar to bring out stories of their hard work and motivation, and even made the audience giggle at intervals. Shifting the focus to the birth of Shivaji Maharaj, he underlined how the warrior king had set a goal to eradicate all foreign rulers and establish Hind Swaraj at the age of just 14.
 
 “At the age of 16, Maharaj was ready with his army and began battling against Aurangzeb’s forces after which Aurangzeb sent Afzal Khan to kill Shivaji. Khan was brutal; he had killed 61 of his wives, and weighed 175kg. He attacked Shivaji’s territories but failed to evoke a response. Shivaji then asked him to meet at the iconic and excellently built Pratapgarh fort,” said Tekade.
 
 He told the story of Shivaji’s preparation before meeting Khan and the iconic meet where Maharaj kills Khan.
 
 Tekade used this narrative to highlight the level of alertness exhibited by Shivaji in this psychological warfare, which made him victorious despite lacking in physical strength and army count. He then narrated the story of Shivaji’s victory over Kartalab Khan and highlighted the need for courage in students, especially during college placements.
 
 “Shivaji had to surrender 23 forts out of 35 in the Treaty of Purandar, but he didn’t go into depression or pop pills. It is called a bad patch and all of us face that at some point,” he said, adding, “There’s nothing like a ‘god gift’, one needs passion. After Shivaji came back from Agra, he did a SWOT analysis on Aurangzeb for the next three years. In the next eight years, he had 260 forts in his possession.”
 
 Discipline is supreme in any profession, he said, and asked the students to participate in all competitions, follow rules, read books and be patriotic not in appearance but in heart. “We all should contribute in our won way to the country that has made us what we are,” he added.
 
 
