AHMEDABAD: Many families from economically poorer sections of the society in Ahmedabad had rejoiced after learning about a ‘government scheme’ where apparently under the   and Save the Girl Child campaign, they were getting  ,000 for Rs 38,000. The remainder of the amount was to be paid by a ‘government-appointed agency,’ they were informed.

 People started queueing up and began receiving bikes. However, soon, financiers began to press the bike purchasers for the balance money, and they realized that they had been cheated. The fraudsters got bikes into the hands of customers by paying bike dealers Rs 20,000 on each bike, while pocketing Rs 18,000 on each bike themselves. There was, of course, no government subsidy or scheme.
 
 Until now, at least 300 victims of the fraud have been identified in Ahmedabad taking the scope of the scam to Rs 54 lakh. State CID (crime) officials said teams were sent to investigate the matter after Ashish Bhatia, ADGP, CID (crime) received an application over the issue. 
 
 After confirming that the firm named Limelight Promotions Pvt Ltd was involved in the activity, the team apprehended Hemant Goswami, a resident of Isanpur, who is director of the firm, on Wednesday evening. The team also got the name of one Mukesh Sharma of Gwalior as another kingpin of the scam. A A Shaikh, detective inspector of CID (crime), said that the firm representatives used to advertise the subsidized bikes by claiming that the firm, affiliated with the central government, would issue monthly cheques for the instalments. 
 
 Another Ponzi bust on horizon?
 
 According to the ‘business plan,’ the investors had to purchase packages in multiples of Rs 10,000 against which they used to be provided with a user name and password. They had to click on the links provided by the firm on the daily basis and like or share social media posts. They were promised 15 to 20 times return on investment,” said Joshi. The firm paid dutifully for three months and also encouraged members to induct others into the scheme similar to a multi-level marketing model to earn more. “There are at least 500 victims in Ahmedabad city alone who have lost over Rs 50,000 each,” Joshi said.
 
