  ' design studios in Turin, Italy and Coventry, UK, have almost completed work on two true-blue SUVs and a luxury hatchback which are expected to be showcased by the auto major at the upcoming Auto Expo in 2018. The design teams are also working on a range of cars including an entry-level hatch to be positioned below the   and a full-size sedan above its compact offering -  .

 Tata Motors design head Pratap Bose said the two design studios in Europe along with the centre in Pune were working on a range of cars that would help Tata Motors plug the gaps that currently exist in its portfolio.
 
 "Till now, Tata MOtors has had around 60 per cent market coverage. The Nexon will increase the coverage to 71 per cent. We have a host of launches lined up in the next couple of years that will give Tata Motors 90% coverage by 2020," Bose said during the launch of the compact SUV in Kolkata on Thursday.
 
 The design team comprising 180 persons from nine nationalities, including British, Italians, Americans and Australians apart from Indians have been instrumental in the radical change in Tata Motors. The company that was known to make basic cars for the taxi segment has been churning out attractive personal cars for the past 16 months. Nexon is the latest offering after Tiago, Hexa and Tigor.
 
 It is under the stewardship of Bose, a graduate from National Institute of Design and Royal College of Art that his team adopted the Impact Design philosophy more than three years ago. The brief was to create cars that would have an immediate impact at first sight and a lasting impact over time. "A car's exterior has an immediate impact; the interior a lasting one," Bose explained.
 
 The new portfolio has impressed personal segment customers. Tata Motors that till 2014-15 was considered a company that catered to fleet operators with 67 per cent cars going into the taxi segment is now preferred by individual customers with only 13 per cent being sold as cabs. Most of them are Bolt and Zest, the two cars that the new design team had rolled out after redesigning the Indica and Indigo.
 
 Bose, who has worked in   and   before moving to Tata Motors' European Technical Centre in the UK a decade ago, said the teams at Coventry, Turin and Pune were equally skilled to do end-to-end design. Promoted to head design in April 2011, Bose has increased the design team's size from 40 then to 180 now.
 
 "The Tiago design work began in Coventry before shifting to Pune 18 months before launch so that it is closer to sourcing and manufacturing facilities. The Hexa was completely designed by the Pune team. Nexon's initial development was similarly in Coventry studio.  , the concept sportscar showcased at  , was designed in Turin. The next few vehicles that are lined up will have inputs from the Turin studio," said Bose.
 
