Finance minister Arun Jaitley’s announcement to slash corporate   by 5% for industries with an annual turnover of less than Rs 50 crore has come as a big relief for Nashik Inc. 

 Now, around 6,000 such industries in the north Maharashtra district have to pay 25% as corporate tax instead of the present 30%. The companies will get a benefit of up to Rs 2.5 crore after the reduction of corporate tax and the money can be used for investments to boost production. 
 
 There are a total of 6,500 industries in Satpur, Ambad, Sinnar, Dindori, Peth, Malegaon and other industrial estates of   in Nashik district. Most of these industries are from automobile, engineering, electric and electronic sectors. 
 
 M G Kulkarni, president of the Laghu Udyog Bharati‘s north Maharashtra unit, said, “It’s a balanced Budget. Of the around 6,500 industries in Nashik, around 6,000 will be benefited.” 
 
 H S Banerjee, president of the Nashik Industries & Manufacturers’ Association, said reducing 5% corporate tax for smaller industries “is the only good decision that will benefit such industries”. He said, “The intention to be tough on tax evaders and reward honest tax payers is laudable. I’m happy that the government is sticking to the path of fiscal consolidation. It’s good for long-term economy.”
 
 Maharashtra Chamber of Commerce, Industries & Agriculture senior vice-president Santosh Mandlecha said tax sops for seven years to the new industries will help fetch new industrial investment.
 
 “The government has also proposed to spend Rs 3.37 lakh core on infrastructure, which will also help to boost the sector. The country imports 70% of its electronic components, but the government is focusing on manufacturing those,” said Sudhir Mutalik, president of the CII’s north Maharashtra zonal council.
 
 Sanjiv Narang, past president of Nashik Industries & Manufacturers’ Association, said, “Reducing corporate tax, giving boost to manufacturing of electronic components and doubling Mudra loans allocation are the major factors that will definitely boost the industrial sector. Around 95% of total industries in Nashik have a turnover below Rs 50 crore. These local industries will get benefits of corporate tax reduction.”
 
 
