Kolkata: Plagued by suicides at stations,   has decided to start talking to suicide-attempt survivors to convince them into becoming the face of its anti-suicide campaign. It is receiving assistance in this matter from Final Mile Consulting, an agency based out of Mumbai and Chicago, which has already helped bring down the number of suicides in the Mumbai suburban railway network.

 “The agency has decided to speak to suicide survivors and make their views public while protecting their identity. Their views will be published through posters that will be displayed prominently at stations. Experts are of the opinion that depressed people will be dissuaded from taking the plunge after they go through the experiences of the people who survived,” said general manager M C Chauhan.
 
 Based on the agency’s recommendations,   Railway has also decided not to release details of any suicide or failed attempt at stations to the media. 
 
 “Experts are of the opinion that those contemplating suicide are encouraged after reading such incidents or watching visuals on television,” Chauhan said. 
 
 A young man who was pulled out from under a Metro train after a failed suicide attempt last year said he was willing to help anybody trying to dissuade people from taking their own lives.
 
 “I think people want to turn back at the last moment but most don’t get the chance. I was lucky,” he told TOI over phone. “I was jolted back to reality as soon as I hit the ground between the tracks. Before I had time to think, the train was passing over me and there was a shrill noise. I realized later the noise was due to the emergency brakes being applied by the motorman. In the few minutes that it took for the train to stop, I was praying to God to give me another chance in life,” he said. 
 
 TOI succeeded in contacting another woman who was stopped from jumping in front of a train by alert security personnel. The woman was depressed as her ill-health was preventing her from conceiving. 
 
 “I can’t say why I took the step. My husband and in-laws were very co-operative and had never exerted any pressure. Even doctors had assured that I would be able to conceive after some time if I took care of my health. However, I gradually slipped into depression,” she said. In a chilling description of what goes through a person’s mind before attempting suicide she said, “I was determined when I left home. However, I lost my nerves at the station as I saw the trains arrive. I started questioning myself. Would it be worth taking my own life? I would approach the edge of the platform as the trains approached and then drew back as images of my mutilated body flashed before my eyes. I started imagining how my husband and parents would grieve. I was actually weeping when they grabbed me. My advice to all would be never contemplate suicide as there are solutions to all problems. It’s a coward’s way to escape challenges.”
 
