Though he has been in the industry for the last 20 years, girls still swoon over his good looks, charming smile and tremendous charisma on screen. Someone who has always pushed the barrier when it comes to giving it all for a film,   has come a long way. He and his wife, actress Jyotika, is one couple who sets some serious relationship goals for others in the industry, for the ease with which they strike a work-life balance and their respect for each other’s work commitments. While he’s busy producing his wife’s Magalir Mattum and juggling his acting commitments, Suriya says he’s taking baby steps to move away from what he has been doing so far. We talk to the actor about films, family and more… 

 
 
 Of late, there’s a lot of discussion about how cinema portrays women. This film is a fun-filled project, which will also deal with several aspects of womanhood. I sincerely feel that Magalir Mattum will be the kind of film which will drive home the point that one gender isn’t superior than the other.   are as competent as men, and it’s high time we stopped putting them down because of the patriarchal mindset. The film shows how we should understand them better and be sensitive to their needs. The film is also about finding oneself and living your life to the fullest. It won’t be preachy, but there will be takeaways for the audience.
 
 
 
 We have to be sensitive about what we are telling on screen. The kind of dialogues or scenes that we had 10 years ago might not work now. We have to be responsible for what we say on screen today. In the wake of many recent incidents, every actor should be conscious about what he says on the big screen. I have become more conscious about my characters on screen and what I mouth in my films.
 
 
 
 Jo completely understands how this industry works. For instance, when I end up working till late, and neglect my family, she will reprimand me saying, ‘You should find a work-life balance.’ When she decided to take a break from films few years ago, it was completely her decision. She wanted to devote all her time to the kids. Once Dev and   grew up, we kept discussing the possibility of her making a comeback in films. But then, it’s different this time. The Jyotika you see today is a stronger person. And the roles that she’s been choosing now reflect her real-life personality. We aren’t really particular about the genre of the film as such, but then, it has to be sensible enough to say ‘yes’ to. One of the biggest challenges is to choose the right content which is in sync with your values. So, it’s equally important for us to contemplate the little message we are sending to the audience through our films as a take-home.
 
 
 
 Success and failures are all about how you take them. Oh yes, when I hear my film doesn’t do well, it does upset me. Perhaps, for two days I will think about it. After that I move on. I will only try to re-invent myself, and do better in my upcoming films. What worked for me five years ago might not work now. Ideas and thoughts change for all of us. It is about how well the script is written, the dialogues, and more. Today, everything needs to be as real as possible. Also, films today are hyped. All I am trying to do is to surpass that expectation. Irrespective of whether it is a big-budget film or not, the film should resonate with the people. Films like Joker and Maanagaram has just proved that. 
 
 
 
 Making films has a lot to do with intuition, and we believe that the stories we choose will turn out to be great, but you never know. You can never guarantee a success. All we can do is to deliver our hundred per cent, and hope that the content is engaging enough for the audiences. I go through this dilemma about what content to choose while acting compared to what I choose while producing. But it’s the gut-feeling that drives us. If you love something, then people, too, will love it. But I wish it was as simple as that. This is why filmmaking, or for that matter, any creative work, is a challenge. 
 
 
 
 I want to break the monotony, and consciously making an effort to move away from my comfort zone. In fact, Vignesh ShivN’s Thaana Serndha Kootam is one such. I will be connecting to that generation of audience through his film. Even my next with Selvaraghavan is one such attempt for me to go in constant search for different content. I am very excited about both these films. In fact I will be sporting a different look for Selva’s film. 
 
 
 
 It is not that I am avoiding such subjects, but then if I get a film that has a right mix of romance, and other elements, I will definitely do it. At this stage of my career, I can’t do films that will satisfy only a particular age-group. I want to do films that have a larger connect. 
 
 
 
 He had two ideas and we were supposed to work on it. But then, he got busy with Rajini sir’s projects. We will work in the future once the script gets locked. 
 
 
 
 (Smiles) Though I have done many action films, Hari sir’s approach is quite different. He makes a nice balance of all the elements in each of his films. While coming up with sequels, it is a huge responsibility to match up to the success of the previous part. He designs his character so well, and ensures that it doesn’t flaw. We might do another sequel of it, but as of now, we will be working on a different script.
 
 
 
 They are just one button away. It’s up to you whether, or not, to click that button and get worked up by seeing all that negativity. All of them have realised that we can’t stop trolls. You either choose to read or choose to stay away from it. I choose not to click that button.
 
 
 
 Karthi is a fabulous actor. I’m really proud of his work, and was surprised with the way he transformed himself to pull off his recent performances in films like   and Kaatru Veliyidai. The topic of both Karthi and I working together in a film has come up in our discussions, time and again, but nothing has materialised so far. Few years ago, after watching   Kumar’s Manam, we explored the idea of remaking it in Tamil, however, that didn’t happen. Instead, Vikram narrated to me the story of 24, and I took it up. If the right script comes our way, we will surely work together.
 
 
 
 It’s a dream-come-true for all of us. We’ve always been a joint family, but in the past few years, we had to stay separately as our previous house wasn’t spacious enough. So, when we decided to move to a new home, I made sure that all of us live under the same roof. I love my family and they mean the whole world to me.
 
 
