BHUBANESWAR: To promote Buddhist tourism in Odisha, the state government on Friday urged the Centre to include Bhubaneswar as a stop-over on the Colombo-Varanasi flight path. Chief minister   has also moved the Centre to let the Biju Patnaik airport grant ' '. 

 "The state recently got international air connectivity with AirAsia starting its operations between Bhubaneswar and Kuala Lumpur. There has been a good response to this international connectivity with Indian citizens travelling abroad through Bhubaneswar. A sizeable number of foreign arrivals have been noticed," Naveen wrote to external affairs minister Sushma Swaraj.
 
 The chief minister said the 'visa on arrival' facility would encourage people from countries connected by the recently launched international connectivity (Malaysia) to visit Odisha.
 
 "Since we have already established international connectivity, we must have the visa on Arrival facility at the city airport. Foreign tourists, who plan immediate visit to Odisha, depend on Kolkata to get visa. If we have the facility, it will be a great help," said Benjamin Simon, a tour operator.
 
 Seven places in the country have the Visa on Arrival facility at present, he said.
 
 Prime Minister  , during his recent visit to Sri Lanka, had announced that India's national carrier   would begin direct flights between Colombo and the holy city of Varanasi.
 
 Naveen in another letter to Union civil aviation minister Ashok Gajapathi Raju has welcomed the move, saying the initiative will no doubt be useful in promotion of heritage tourism and in increasing the tourist traffic from Sri Lanka to India.
 
 "As you know, Odisha is a land of rich cultural heritage. Emperor Ashoka converted to Buddhism and spread the message across the world from Odisha. Apart from that the diamond triangle of Buddhist sites (Ratnagiri, Udayagiri and Lalitgiri ) has conclusively established that Odisha was an important centre for Buddhism during 3rd century BC," Naveen noted.
 
 The chief minister in the letter mentioned that tour operators, academicians and monks from Sri Lanka had expressed eagerness to visit Odisha to explore the Buddhist heritage sites during the recent international Buddhist conclave and other different forums. 
 
