COIMBTORE: Based on an order from commissioner of municipal administration G Prakash, the city corporation is drafting by-laws to implement the   rules, 2016 that will charge the generator of waste if he does not segregate it. The civic body plans to enforce these laws after March 31.

 Corporation commissioner K Vijayakarthikeyan said the new solid waste management rules released by the central government put more responsibility on the waste generator. “While the civic body has the responsibility of providing necessary infrastructure and awareness, it is the waste generator’s responsibility to segregate the waste,” he said. “We will pass these rules in the council and enforce them,” he said.
 
 As per the rules, the generators of waste such as hotels, industries and other mass producers should segregate and compost waste on their own. If they do not do so, they will have to pay a fee to the civic body which is handling their waste. As per the civic body officials, they will draft by-laws in such a way that these rules are enforced in a phased manner.
 
 As per the new rules, all the street vendors will have to keep suitable containers for storage and disposal of waste. All resident welfare and market associations should ensure segregation of waste at source. The bio-degradable waste shall be processed, treated and disposed through composting or bio-methanation within the premises as far as possible. The residual waste shall be handed over to the local body. All gated communities and institutions with more than 5,000 sqm area should ensure segregation of waste at source. This also applies to all hotels and restaurants. “Almost every commercial establishment has a terrace where composting could be done. We are hopeful that once we create awareness on waste segregation, the enforcement of these by-laws will become easy,” said Saravana Kumar, in-charge of solid waste management in Coimbatore corporation, who is drafting the by-laws.
 
 He added that within a year they will also set up e-waste collection hubs in all the five zones of the corporation. “Enforcement of rules has always been an issue. We are hopeful that this time the laws will be enforced and all the residents will follow the rules,” said a member of the residential welfare association. 
 
 
