LUCKNOW: Forget about the rest of the city, even areas where dengue has affected people and killed its victims are not ready to fight it. 

 Even before the onset of the rainy season this year, 16 cases of dengue fever had been reported from the city. Despite the high court’s stringent guidelines last year to take steps to prevent the mosquito-borne fever, the situation is far from what it should be.
 
 In a reality check, TOI found that even in areas where dengue cases had occurred this year, there was neither proper sanitation nor did residents witness any   or   spray exercise.
 
 This year, two cases of dengue were reported from LDA Colony on Kanpur Road. However, the status of cleanliness in the area is pathetic. The streets aren’t swept regularly, dumping grounds are mostly filled with garbage and most importantly, drains have not been dredged even once this year. The scope of water accumulation and mosquito breeding has only gone up. 
 
 Virendra Gupta, a resident, said, “I haven’t witnessed any anti-larvae drive being conducted here even once. Drains are always clogged and brimming; in the evenings, millions of mosquitoes can be seen buzzing around. The situation gets worse during monsoon.”
 
 Shiv Kumar, a resident of Shekhupura in Vikasnagar, who lost his brother to dengue a few months ago, said not only the family but all residents of the locality are living in a state of fear.
 
 “How will authorities take care of the entire city when they can’t maintain cleanliness even in areas where dengue has hit people? There is absolutely no change in the situation before and after. Drains are still clogged, basic sanitation is wretched and not even once has fogging been done,” said  .
 
 The situation is similar in Kanchampuram in Triveninagar, Premnagar in Alambagh, Lalbagh, Aishbagh, Husainabad and   in Daliganj, from where cases of dengue have been reported.
 
 Situated on the banks of the Gomti, the condition of Kesripur, Daliganj is worse. The area has narrow lanes and small, shallow drains. 
 
 “It has not even been a month that a 20-year-old boy was diagnosed with dengue in my neighbourhood. My wife has been so scared after the incident that she doesn’t allow me or the kids to move out of the house in half-sleeved shirts or shorts. We have lost all hopes from the authorities,” said Amar Jaiswal, a shopkeeper and resident of Kesripur.
 
 Residents of Kanchampuram have been so threatened by mosquitoes that they have employed workers to keep the locality clean. A 24-year-old woman was diagnosed with dengue a few days ago. 
 
 “The condition of this area is pitiable. Most drains remain choked with garbage. Water puddles are usual because most roads are broken. Looking at these conditions, residents decided to pool in Rs 100 every month to employ workers who can at least keep the locality free from mosquito breeding and garbage accumulation,” said Mahendra Pandey, a resident.
 
 (Inputs from Aarooshy Srivastava, Priya Dixit, Himanshi Shukla, Ayush Chaudhary) 
 
