MUMBAI: Bandra residents who visited   for their morning walk on Wednesday were surprised to find it taken over by the BMC. The 16,600-square-metre park along   was being maintained by a private trust under the state government's open spaces adoption policy.

 A year ago, the state government decided to bring back its 216 open spaces under the BMC's management. Later, though, it formulated an interim policy stipulating that private caretakers may be handed back these gardens if they followed the rules and regulations set by the civic body.
 
 The U-turn came under criticism since several open spaces handed over to politicians have been commerciali zed. In certain places, constructions have come up too.
 
  of the BMC gardens department said, “We have taken over the garden under the government's policy, which mandates the takeover of all civic open spaces handed out to private parties for adoption or on a careta ker basis. The lease of the  , which maintained Joggers Park, has expired and we issued them a formal notice four days ago.“ Lokhandwala Builders was in charge of its upkeep before the foundation took charge. As a result of the civic takeover, the entry fee of Rs 2 was waived.
 
 Local residents expressed doubt over whether civic authorities would be able to maintain the garden as well as the private party had done. Darryl D'Monte, president of the Bandra West Residents' Association, said, “This takeover is unwarranted if the caretaker did not violate any civic rules.Joggers Park is the pride of Bandra's gardens. So many open spaces across the city are in far worse shape and crying out for attention. Here, in fact, we have a landscaped garden, birds like geese and ducks, and a children's play area. I doubt the BMC has the expertise to manage it so well. Instead, why not take back open spaces handed to politicians who have either commercialized them or constructed structures on them.“
 
 Workers who are employed in Joggers Park feared loss of livelihood. “We have been receiving our salaries from the trust. Now we are not sure if the BMC will retain us. If there is a new contractor he may choose to bring in his own staff,“ said one worker.
 
 All stakeholders, including the BMC, will gather inside Joggers Park at 6pm on Thursday to discuss the matter. Munde said, “I myself have invited local residents and groups to come. They have certain misgivings, which will be addressed. Their fear is that wastrels may enter the garden now that the entry fee is abolished. But as a civic body, our mandate is to ensure equal access to all citizens. They also doubt our capability to maintain Joggers Park in its present state. We are confident we will allay their fears.“
 
 Joggers Park is approximately 30 years old.
 
