MUMBAI: Although pencilled in to play the first singles for his team   in the Premier Badminton League, India's   is of the opinion that world no 3 women's singles player   of South Korea is his team's trump card.

 "We have a fairly well-balanced team. Our biggest strength is women's singles. She (Hyun) is in great form. She has a fair chance against anyone," said Jayaram ahead of his team's season-opening tie against   here at the NSCI Stadium on Tuesday.
 
 "I will be playing first. I had a good season and feeling quite confident. I'm hoping I can pull off crucial wins," said world no. 19 Jayaram who, along with another top Indian shuttler - H S Prannoy - will be figuring in men's singles.
 
 Mumbai take on Hyderabad Hunters on January 4 to complete their home engagements of the season.
 
 Prannoy said things won't be easy for both in PBL.
 
 "It's going to be tough for both of us. Both the men's singles are going to be crucial. If we can pull out a couple of matches then we will be placed well to make the semis," said the world no. 28.
 
 The team is to be led by ex-South Korean international Lee Yong Dae who had won the 2008 Olympics mixed doubles gold and the 2012 Games men's doubles bronze.
 
 Jayaram said the men's and mixed doubles are an unknown quantity as both would be made up of scratch combinations.
 
 "The men's doubles is a bit of a scratch combination; even mixed doubles is the same. It will be interesting to see how they fare," said Jayaram about his team's chances.
 
 Dae is expected to partner Thailand's N Phusnhphupet in men's doubles and Pole Nadidzda Zeiba in the mixed event.
 
 For Jayaram the 11-point format and trump matches are unknown territories, Prannoy felt that the shortened version would see fast paced play.
 
 From past experience he said there would be added pressure on the chosen ones when playing the trump match as a loss would lead to a negative point for the team.
 
 "I have not played much of 11 points to figure out how it works for me and can't give the right answer. (But) I feel from the beginning it will be intense and pacy. It will be quite tough as it's quicker and shorter," said Jayaram.
 
 "I did not play any trump match last year," he pointed out when asked how tough it would be to take on the added burden.
 
 "We did not lose a single trump last season. But I am not sure whether it will be ideal for Thomas and Uber team championships. It's okay in these sorts of leagues," he added.
 
 "I saw the 11-point matches yesterday (played in Hyderabad). It was a bit slow. But from the first point the pace will be high. We need to be smart about when to slow down and when to increase the pace," said Prannoy.
 
 "We have to take on the extra pressure in trump matches. We need to be extra cautious as it's a big match for you as if you lose it will cost the team big," he said about playing the team-designated trump match in a tie.
 
 Looking beyond PBL, Jayaram said he was keen to break into the top ten as he did not have points to defend.
 
 "I think I had a good few months and considering I don't have too many points to defend, I hope to break into the top ten with three to four good performances," said Jayaram.
 
 "The first half of 2016 was not very good, but post that I took some time off, trained and managed to make three Quarter finals in Super Series events as well as three semi-finals (in lesser-ranked tournaments). I have been much more consistent over the last few months and hope to carry that confidence into PBL," he added.
 
 Prannoy said he wanted to do well in Syed Modi Memorial tournament later this month in Lucknow before targeting five back to back tournaments commencing with the All England Super Series Premier in March.
 
 "It's going to be tough for me as I would be defending some points. I am not fully fit now. Not really looking towards ranking. I want to play well in a couple of tournaments like Syed Modi.
 
 "From March onwards I hope I can play really well. From the All England, five tournaments are lined up. I will prepare well for All England and then the Swiss Open," he said. 
 
 Meanwhile Korean Dae said that the PBL was better than the tournaments held at home because of the fans' involvement.
 
 "The level of the league here is better than in Korea. In Korea we play only tournaments because of the mood and involvement of fans," said the 29-year-old player who has played in a league in China but is making his debut in PBL.
 
 He also felt the young Indian players in doubles possessed speed and power and would do well to improve their stamina.
 
 Poland's Zieba was not too fond of the 11-point system being used in the league.
 
 "It's too fast for me. The 15-point format is better for me," she felt.
 
 Zieba said that badminton has picked up big time in Europe over the last five to ten years so that now each country had a set of good shuttlers.
 
 "I am very happy for Europe as over the last five to ten years badminton has been promoted well and each country has good players now," she said. 
 
