A tradition dating back to 400 years is still being kept alive at the   in Dhubri district. Here, the goddess Durga and her children are carried on a royal palanquin to the place of worship. The Durga idol here is made of ‘kuhilla’, a locally grown reed.

 A few days before the commencement of the puja, artisans carry the images to the   and from there she is taken to the Mahamaya temple in a field. On Shasti, the members of the royal family carry the goddess to the banks of the   where she is put on a boat. All offerings and rituals are done on the boat itself. This is the unique feature of this puja.
 
 The goddess is then taken on a palanquin to the Mahamaya Temple once again and worshipped there for the next four days. The royal procession draws crowds from many neighbouring places, including Bengal.
 
 “We practise this custom every year. On Tuesday, the idols were carried in a palanquin complete with bridal finery. The ‘belboron’ ritual was conducted on the river bank. Earlier, the procession would be accompanied by horses and elephants. Now things have changed, but we want to continue with the tradition to the best of our ability,” said Probir Barua, a descendent of the Gauripur royal family.
 
 Artisan Karen Malakar, whose family has the distinction of making reed idols for the royal household for over a century, crafts the idol to a height of four to five feet. It is not easy to make a kuhilla idol. The reeds have to be first dried in the sun for about two weeks and then the outer layer of the reeds will be removed for the tender stem inside that forms the base of the idol.
 
 The Rajbari boasts of some illustrious family members who have made it big in different fields of work.   was the first actor to play Devdas on screen. Pratima Pandey Barua is a noted folk singer. Who hasn’t heard of Parboti Barua, the world’s only woman mahout, who tames elephants. Prakatish Barua is also a noted elephant trapper and pachyderm expert.
 
 A peek into the royal history will reveal that sometime in the 14th or 15th century, Narahari Rai, one of the ancestors of the royal family, was a minister at the royal court of Mithila. After an altercation with the king, he came to Assam. He was perhaps fated to meet Biswa Singha, the king of Cooch Behar, who appointed him as the administrator in the royal court. After the division of the Cooch Behar kingdom, his powers were curtailed. In 1620, Mughal emperor Jahangir bestowed the title of king on Kabi Shekhar, one of the descendants of Narahari Rai.
 
