Jaipur: Now, people will be allowed to change their name in   for one time. For this, it would be mandatory to submit an affidavit mentioning that name will not be changed in future. 

 Following the chief registrar of India (birth and death) director’s instructions, the directorate of economics & statistics issued orders for the same. This would benefit thousands of residents who have separate name in documents due to existing provision. 
 
 As per the prevailing Act, a person’s name cannot be changed in the birth certificate once it is issued by the directorate. People can change their names through courts but in birth certificates, the old name cannot be struck off.
 
 “There was no provision for a change of name in the Act earlier. The name in the birth certificate had to remain the same throughout one's life. Now, amendment in the Act has been done so that people could get at least one opportunity to change their names once. So if someone is unhappy with the name, now he can change it,” said an official at the JMC. 
 
 Before the change in name in the birth certificate, the applicant has to issue a gazette notification. It would be mandatory to attach a copy of notification along with an application to change the name in the birth certificate. 
 
 District registrar (DR) has been appointed as an authority for change of names in birth certificate. The approval will given by the DR. “In JMC periphery, commissioner holds the position of district registrar, while collector will be DR in other local bodies.” 
 
 After a baby born in a hospital, parents register his or her birth within 21 days. Once name of the child is filled in the birth registration certificate, it cannot be changed in the certificate. “Majority of people are not aware of the existing provision and this is the reason they register their name in the certificate in haste when child is born. However, as per the rules, the parents can leave the name blank and decide the final name till the age of 15 years.”
 
 
