KANPUR: A college student arrested last year for the alleged   of an 11-year-old boy has managed to prove his innocence and get acquitted with the help of  . Jai Pratap Singh, alias Mohit, was let off on Thursday by additional district and sessions judge Rajat Singh Jain, who also observed that the role of police in the case was suspicious.

 The judge wrote to the director-general of police, urging action against investigation officer Hari Shankar Mishra.
 
 The college student, son of a warrant officer in the  , was arrested by Kanpur police for the murder of Rehan, who disappeared on August 20, 2016, around 6.30pm. Rehan’s body, with the throat slit, was found after two hours.
 
 Jai was acquitted after material evidence presented by the prosecution did not support the claims made by police, and internet giant Google indicated that Jai’s   was in use at the time of murder, indicating he was not at the scene of crime.
 
 According to Jai, he was working online on an animation design at the time of the 11-year-old’s murder. His parents collected all the details of their son’s location, online working time, and the websites he visited. They also collected his online history from Google and submitted it to court in defence of their son.
 
 According to the Google report, Jai’s IP address was in use from 4 to 11pm, during which he visited several websites. Police had claimed that the murder took place at around 6pm. Police had nabbed Jai on August 26, but registered his arrest on August 30. Jai Pratap’s defence counsel claimed he had been falsely implicated in the case by a sub-inspector, who had earlier registered a false case against his father Bhagwan Singh an
 d had demanded money to close it. Bhagwan had lodged a complaint with the district magistrate against the sub-inspector and the vigilance department had conducted an inquiry in the matter. The S-I had submitted a final report in the false case and closed it. However, he had warned Bhagwan of consequences.
 
 When the S-I was included in the murder investigation team, he allegedly fabricated the case against Jai, the counsel claimed.
 
 
