KOCHI: The standoff between film producers and theatre owners over revenue sharing have come to an end with the   deciding to call of their strike. The   president Liberty Basheer said the strike was withdrawn following the state government's assurance that it will convene a meeting to address their grievances. 

 Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan had criticized the stance of the film exhibitors' federation and had pointed out that it should call off the strike for resolving the crisis.
 
 "We are pinning hopes on the state government's assurance and calling off the protest," said Basheer. 
 
 He said movies will be screened at theatres from Saturday. The announcement to call off the strike came in the wake of actor Dileep and producer Antony Perumbavoor leading the way to constitute a new organisation of theatre owners with the support of producers, distributors, multiplex owners, cine exhibitors associations and Film Employees Federation of Kerala (FEFKA).
 
 Ignoring the protest raised by the Film Exhibitors' Federation, Tamil movie 'Bairavaa' was released in about 30 theatres across the state. Following this move, around 20 theatres had planned to back out from the strike and release new movies. It was at this juncture that actor Dileep took the initiative to form a new organisation, which is seen as a move to weaken the Film Exhibitors' Federation led by Liberty Basheer.
 
 Meanwhile, talking to reporters on the side-lines of the discussions held for constituting the new organisation in Kochi, actor Dileep said he was aware of the problems faced by producers, distributors and theatre owners. "Apart from being an actor, I am also a producer, distributor and theatre owner," he added. He said the strike has disappointed all the people associated with the Malayalam film industry.
 
 The new organisation will promote good films. "In future, theatres should never be closed down. All disputes should be settled through dialogues. Movie-goers should not be put at unease. They should be treated as guests and it is they who take the industry forward," Dileep said adding that people behind the new organisation were theatre owners who loved good cinema.
 
 
