CHANDIGARH: Despite ‘chai pe charcha’ with   on Thursday, a group of   continued to take on their own government inside and outside assembly on Friday. Virtually playing the role of opposition during the ongoing  , party MLAs specifically targeted education minister Ram Bilas Sharma and transport and housing minister Krishan Lal Panwar.

 Most of the 16 MLAs (see list), who have been raising the issue of not getting any say even in the work related to their own constituencies and apathy of bureaucrats, remained as vocal in their revolt against the state leadership as before. The signs of a climb down that were visible after their meeting with Khattar at his official residence a day before, were missing on Friday. This gave opposition leaders enough ammunition to attack the BJP government. 
 
 In assembly, the drama begin when the education minister was responding to a question by INLD MLA Zakir Hussain, who had requested the government to open a college in Mewat. While the minister praised the the CM’s foundation stone laying ceremony of 22 colleges through video conferencing last month, BJP MLAs started asking him about their areas. Ballabhgarh MLA Mool Chand Sharma, Rewari MLA Randhir Kapriwas and Narnaul MLA Om Parkash Yadav asked Ram Bilas about the status of the promises made by Khattar during his rallies in their constituencies. 
 
 Panwar was next to be targeted by his own party colleagues. Badra MLA Sukhwinder Mandhi posed the query about shifting of high tension wires from villages and issuance of new electricity connections to ‘dhanis’ (hamlets) in Bhiwani. While Panwar was responding to Mandhi, Panipat MLA Rohita Rewri too started raising the issue of delay in shifting of high tension wires in the residential areas.
 
 This gave opposition MLA chance to corner the state government. While INLD MLAs passed several comments about the “role reversal” in the assembly, Congress MLA Geeta Bhukkal targeted the CM.
 
 “Everyone is upset with this government. Bureaucracy is also annoyed. Now, their own MLAs are irked. There is nothing much left to be said about the failures of this government,” she said outside the House.
 
 Party sources said that before coming to the assembly on Friday, six MLAs had tea at Gurugram MLA Umesh Aggarwal’s place, while other six met at the residence of Randhir Kapriwas. Both Aggarwal and Kapriwas have been spearheading the group of dissidents and have held various rounds of meetings.
 
 BJP sources also claimed that some of the dissatisfied MLAs have been summoned to New Delhi after March 11. Meanwhile, Khattar too left for New Delhi in the evening.
 
 On Thursday, a little while after the 16 MLAs had met separately, the CM had called all of them at his residence assuring them to sort out their differences. Party sources had claimed that after meeting him, the MLAs agreed not to blow up the issue till the assembly sessions
 
 One of the MLAs Santosh Sarwan had even said that they would knock the door of party high command if their issues are not resolved. She accused that even the area under INLD MLA are given more grants for development works than the area of ruling party MLAs.
 
 The meeting was held at the flat allotted to Badra MLA, Sukhwinder Singh on Thursday afternoon, which was attended by around 16 BJP MLAs including Prem Lata, wife of union minister Birender Singh. Prem Lata had left for Delhi due to some prior engagement and was not present in the hour-long discussion with Khattar.
 
 Brara MLA Sarwan had told TOI that they all told the chief minister about their grouse and he noted down the issues raised by each one and assured to sort out them immediately. Kalka MLA Latika Sharma had told TOI that most of the MLAs were feeling completely ignored. “Most of them were aggrieved with the whimsical attitude of the district officials, not giving the respect and honour to MLAs of ruling party because of which they are not able to satisfy party workers in their constituencies,” she had added. Latika had, however, claimed on Thursday that most of the MLAs were satisfied with CM’s assurance.
 
 
