KOLKATA: The impasse over the construction of   is set to be broken with the state government agreeing to changes made in the design by the   (KMRC). The final approval will be given to KMRC after a joint inspection at the site this week. The site is likely to be cordoned off next week for the construction of the station. A shaft, about 25-metre deep, will be dug to construct the station.

 The Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) had issued a no-objection certificate (NOC) with a clause that disallowed any overground structure within 100 metres of Currency Building, a nationally-protected monument. The clause necessitated a change in the design, pushing the overground structures — like the entry-exit points — from 85 metres to beyond 100 metres. KMRC needed to redesign the station taking into account the ASI clause.
 
 The changes in the design may hit the tramways hard. In the previous design, there was a southern loop that would have helped trams reach Dalhousie and return taking the loop. But the current design has put a question mark on the construction of this loop. This may result in suspension of as many as 16 tram routes compared to nine as per the earlier design.
 
 “Now, it appears that many more routes will be closed for next three years. So, the compensation will be renegotiated. But handing over of land will not be deferred any more. KMRC has already pledged a compensation of Rs 11 crore to   (CTC) and Rs 9 crore for creating tram loop. Now, the compensation amount may go up,” said a transport department official.
 
 After the joint inspection this week, Kolkata Police will be informed about the exact date when they can cordon off the BBD Bag minibus stand. Accordingly, the cops will execute the traffic diversion plan. KMRC will then carry out the station construction work at war-footing. The diaphragm wall of the station needs to be built otherwise and the TBM needs to be stalled midway below Brabourne Road. With the current speed, the TBM is scheduled to reach the Mahakaran site by end of September. The geology of the soil does not approve that, said an official of Afcons, the tunnel construction agency for the project.
 
 The station construction requires three years. If the construction of the station is initiated immediately, it would be very difficult to meet the deadline of June 2020, said the official. The project, which aims to connect Salt Lake’s Sector V with   via a stretch under the Hooghly, has already missed several deadlines because of land acquisition resulting into realignment of the route.
 
 
