NEW DELHI: The Special Cell has arrested two men with high-quality   Rs 100 notes, which were smuggled into Delhi through Nepal. Counterfeit bills with face value of Rs 6 lakh have been seized from them. The notes were to be distributed in markets ahead of the festive season. 

 The arrested men have been identified as Sanjeev and Arvin. They were nabbed near Sonia Vihar in northeast Delhi on Saturday. “We had spotted a car, which was parked near a traffic signal. Arvin drove the car; he alighted from the vehicle with the bag on his shoulder while Sanjeev was waiting outside with another bag. They were nabbed after their identities were verified,” said Sanjeev Yadav, DCP, Special Cell. 
 
 Citing intelligence reports, TOI had on November 9 reported that an ISI-backed fake   racket in Peshawar and Karachi had stared printing 100-denomination notes. 
 
 The seized consignments had face value of Rs 2 lakh and Rs 4 lakh each. Police sources said the quality of the paper of these FICNs was almost similar to the one used in making genuine notes. These notes also carry identical security features like the thread and the watermark of Mahatma Gandhi.
 
 Probe revealed that the accused had been procuring FICNs from a contact in eastern UP for the past two months. They used to supply the fake bills to prospective buyers in NCR. They said that Rs 1 lakh in fake notes fetch them Rs 40,000.
 
 Their interrogation had revealed that the supply and circulation of FICNs had significantly increased in UP in the aftermath of the   drive and because of ongoing UP elections, police said. The accused admitted to sending consignments to several states in north India as well.
 
 “Once the new notes of higher denomination arrived in the market, the general public did not verify the genuineness of Rs 100 notes and the accused took advantage of this trend,” added Yadav.
 
 Police officers said that apart from using Kaliachak in West Bengal’s Malda district as a transit point, the ISI-backed gang has explored routes through Nepal to pump fake notes into India. 
 
 
