KOCHI: Muvattupuzha vigilance court, on Friday, directed the vigilance and anti-corruption bureau (VACB) to register a case against IG   for allegedly amassing disproportionate assets. Considering the petition filed by PP Chandrasekharan Nair of Pathanamthitta, inquiry commissioner and special judge, P Madhavan directed the   director to register a case under sections 7, 13(1) and 13(2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act.

 The court asked the director to assign an officer above the rank of superintendent to conduct the   and inform it about the progress of the investigation every three months. 
 
 The complainant had claimed that Abraham had misused his position to stop action against the illegal quarrying in Pathanamthitta.
 
 The officer had constructed a mansion in Thiruvananthapuram and gone on foreign trips under the sponsorship of businessmen, stated the complaint. The complainant had claimed that the officer had committed irregularities while purchasing arms for  .
 
 The complaint also accused him of amassing properties across Kerala and Karnataka during his tenure as Kochi commissioner. Most property acquisitions were made from 2006 to 2011 and a lion’s share of the ‘ill-gotten wealth’ was invested in St Mary’s group, which is related to his wife.
 
 Earlier,   had done a quick verification and found that Abraham’s excess wealth was 0.25% of his known sources of income. The QV was challenged by the complainant, who filed a detailed objection to the calculations in the report, terming it incorrect. The complainant recalculated the various figures collected by VACB (as part of QV) and found that the officer had disproportionate assets to the tune of Rs 61.85 lakh, which was 31% of his known income.
 
 The calculation did not take into account the details of his credit card transactions, two housing loans. A thorough investigation can reveal the actual amounts involved, the complaint had submitted in court. Since there was sufficient evidence, the judge ordered the registration of an FIR against Abraham.
 
 Accusing the officer of ‘unholy nexus with the quarry mafia’, the complainant had stated that two employees of a quarry in Adoor died in an accident due to the use of explosives in 2014. Pathanamthitta police had started an inquiry with Koipuram SI issuing a stop memo to the quarry operator. The complainant alleged that the quarry owner had approached Abraham, who used his influence to stop further action.
 
