Lucknow: While the name of UP’s new chief minister is yet to be officially declared, hectic preparations are on for the swearing-in ceremony to be held on March 19 in Lucknow. The new chief minister along with his cabinet colleagues will be administered oath by Governor Ram Naik at 4.30 p.m. at sprawling Smriti Upvan.

 Speaking to TOI, Governor Ram Naik confirmed that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has confirmed his participation in the oath ceremony. Besides, a large number of chief ministers and national leaders of various parties are also expected to take part.
 
 A meeting of BJP legislature party is to be held at 5 pm on Saturday in Lucknow where name of chosen by the prime minister is likely to be announced for a formal approval by the MLAs. Highly placed sources claim that Union communication minister and MoS railways Manoj Sinha is being tipped to replace Akhilesh Yadav on the coveted chair.
 
 While BJP MLAs have already started flocking the state capital, two Central observers -- Union minister Venkaiah Naidu and MP Bhupendra Yadav, will arrive on Saturday to supervise the legislature party meeting for formally declaring the CM’s name.
 
 Since the PM, BJP chief Amit Shah and host of chief ministers are likely to attend the gala show, the state government is making a foolproof security arrangements for the occasion. On Friday, chief secretary Rahul Bhatnagar had a review meeting for the preparations for the oath ceremony. He also inspected the venue, on the outskirts of city, where the mega show is to be held. Along with him, DGP Javeed Ahmed and other district administration officers also visited the site .
 
 With the galaxy of leaders from the saffron camp, along with 325 MLAs of BJP and its allies and their supporters are expected to attend the ceremony, the administration is anticipating a huge turn out. “The management of the function will be a major challenge,” admits a senior district official.
 
 Outgoing chief minister Akhilesh Yadav was scheduled to attend the oath ceremony of Congress’s Punjab chief minister Captain Amrinder Singh in Chandigarh but at the eleventh hour he cancelled his programme. Now, it will be seen whether he will attend the Sunday function in Lucknow, or not.
 
 peaking to TOI, senior JD (U) leader KC Tyagi said that so far Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar had not received any invitation for the Lucknow show. “But if he gets it, he will attend the oath ceremony of the new UP chief minister,” he said. 
 
 
