MEERUT: “The way the British divided the country into two,   parties like BSP, BJP and SP have divided the population of India on religious and caste lines,” said Congress leader   in Meerut, speaking at the party’s   against demonetisation. In a blistering attack on PM Modi, he said, “Modi has not read history and even if he has, he tries to portray himself as an illiterate. He says Congress has not done anything in the past 60-70 years. Today if country is self-sufficient in grain production it is because of Congress policies and on the other hand, Modi in just a short span has through notebandi, has taken away the livelihood of millions.”
 
  “Soon after independence, the voter used to have just one identity – Indian. Later, these parties in order to grab power divided Indians into castes and religions. But let me tell you, politics of caste and politics of religion never guarantee you good roads, adequate power supply or waiving of loans,” Azad said.
  
  According to party sources, other top leaders – CM candidate Sheila Dikshit, Raj Babbar and former actress Nagma -- were also supposed to attend the rally but owing to a last-minute change in plans, they did not turn up.
  
  During interaction with media later, UP Congress in-charge Azad ruled out the possibility of alliance with any party in the forthcoming UP elections. “We will have our candidates in all 403 constituencies,” he said.
  
  “Modi says Congress has not done anything in the past 60 years of its rule but he doesn’t know that at the time of Partition only 1,300 MW of electricity used to be produced in the country and when Congress left power in 2014, India was already producing 2.75 lakh MW. Today if country is self-sufficient in grain production it is because of Congress policies. And, who erected universities, schools, colleges? On the other hand, Modi in just a short span has through notebandi, has taken away the livelihood of millions.”
  
  He said, Congress was suffering a setback because it took everyone together. “We are out of power in Uttar Pradesh since the last 27 years and so half the electorate does not know Congress’s style of function. It has no idea how democratically we function, how we take every strata of society together and how our behaviour is with the general public.”
  
  The rally was attended by senior leaders of the region including  , vice-president of the state unit of the party. “In all 97% of old currency in circulation has gone back to RBI. So, where is the black money? Where are the 2 crore jobs that Modi had promised? Instead 27 lakhs have already lost their jobs in the last two-and-half years,” he said.
