JAIPUR: Investors stayed away from Rajasthan despite signing MoUs worth Rs 3.21 lakh crore as there was widespread corruption under the present BJP government, leader of opposition   claimed on Tuesday.

 Dudi demanded a probe to know why investors failed to return to the state after making commitments at  , which was organised with much fanfare by the government in November 2015.
 
 “Corruption under present government is one of the big reasons why the assured investments did not materialise in past more than a year. Mining scam, PHED scam, NRHM scam and several other scandals tarred the state’s image. Fake groundnut seeds is the latest scam to surface,” the leader of opposition said here.
 
 Dudi said chief minister Vasundhara Raje failed to generate the promised 15 lakh jobs but when the youth wanted her to respond, she termed them “lafange (rouges)”.
 
 The Congress leader stressed that BJP government was trying to take credit for rolling back power tariff for agriculture but the opposition would expose its truth during the assembly’s budget session, which will begin from February 23. Dudi has called the Congress legislative party’s meeting on February 22 to chalk out strategy for cornering BJP government in assembly.
 
 Earlier in the day, hundreds of Congressmen led by former legislator and Congress Jaipur city president   staged a protest at   here to demand roll back of tariff for domestic power as well. Khachariyawas held discussions with power minister Pushpendra Singh and submitted the party’s memorandum on the demand.
 
 Addressing a public assembly in Jaisalmer, Congress state president   said BJP government had been steeply increasing power tariffs since past three years, as a result of which farmers and common man have been suffering.
 
 “Congress became the voice of people and the government had to roll back agriculture power rates. It is surprising that the government is now trying to take credit for the roll back, though it is the victory of common man’s struggle against government oppression,” Pilot said. He added that Congress would oppose privatization of power that the present government was bent upon doing.
 
