As demonetisation brought the logistics and truck rentals industry to a screeching halt, truck aggregator startup Fr8 moved in to ensure that trucks operated smoothly.The company, founded by   and  , offers logistics service for corporates. Immanuel and Panneerselvam, former colleagues at   found imperfections in the logistics industry and decided on the startup. With Panneerselvam providing the tech support and Immanuel taking care of operations, Fr8 took off.

 “Intercity logistics from the other side showed the industry was low on tech and there had no means to track orders, as the system lacked visibility. Also, the industry was fragmented and the vendors lacked professional understanding of nuances like the month-end demand,“ said Immanuel.
 
 The startup serves as a marketplace for intercity long-haul transportation, connecting enterprise companies such as Asian Paints, Philips, Pepperfry and Britannia and small and medium enterprises and agri businesses to fleet owners who have fewer than 20 trucks. Fr8 offers an Uberlike model for companies to choose trucks of their specification via an app or website, while fleet owners and drivers transact on the app.
 
 With the truck marketplace being unorganised, the startup agg re gates trucks of varying sizes, suiting the transportation needs of their customers. “Typically, we have trucks between 14ft-40ft, utilised by the e-commerce and electronics companies. Currently we have operations in nine cities,“ said Immanuel.
 
 Corporates find the variety in truck sizes beneficial to transport products of all specifications. “Fr8 has helped us meet our logistics needs in a cost-efficient, transparent and dependable manner. We get complete order visibility, greatly simplifying the process. With diverse categories available on the platform, they are our one-stop solution for intercity logistics,“ said M Mahesh, senior manager, supply chain, Preethi Kitchen Appliances.
 
 Having set up the company in June 2016, the team managed to rope in big names in the industry. Immanuel feels the pricing offered by Fr8, which is on a par with the industry standards or slightly lower, coupled with assured delivery within four hours have made them bag these contracts. The company now has 20-25 enterprise clients and close to five agri clients and SMEs. “We also accept payments online and through cards, so demonetisation did not impact us,“ he added.
 
 The firm has close to 3,000 trucks and 400 vendors.
 
 But the journey has not been smooth as the team at Fr8 faced difficulties in educating the drivers and making them accept payments online. They distributed pamphlets at roadside dhabas and fuelling stations that drivers frequent for their share of fleet owners.Bootstrapped for merely three months, the startup went on to receive `6.5 crore funding from early stage agritech-focused investment firm Omnivore partners in October 2016. Fr8 competes with firms such as Blackbuck, Rivigo etc.
 
 Fr8 offers service on credit of a fixed amount, with the time limit varying based on the size of the company, with SMEs and agribased companies having to pay sooner. Fleet owners get to benefit from the aggregation as the startup cuts down on middlemen. “We further go on to arrange for insurance and also have fuel partners to help reduce operational costs. We are also looking to arrange for working capital for our customers,“ he said.
 
 Outlining short-term goals, the founders look to expand their operations in 10 cities in the next 12 months and an ARR of `100 crore in the next six months, from the current `40 crore.“In the next 18 months, we look to clock close to `1,000 crore,“ said an upbeat Immanuel.
 
 (This series captures the start-up ecosystem in the state)
 
