PUNE: The new Pune airport at Purandar taluka will take at least five more years to be built and become operational, district guardian minister   told TOI.

 Bapat said the expansion plan for the existing airport in Lohegaon was in sync with the new airport project, which will be ready in  . Bapat’s statement goes against claims made by Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis earlier. While announcing the project last year, Fadnavis had said the new airport would be operational within three years.
 
 Maharashtra Airport Development Company Limited (MADC) vice-chairman and managing director Vishwas Patil had also recently announced in Pune that the new airport would be ready by 2019, even before the one at Navi Mumbai.
 
 “In five years, the new Pune airport would be ready for operations. Passengers will, however, not feel the pinch as the state government has got big plans for the expansion of the existing airport in Pune. Recently, 15.84 acres of land has been handed over to Airports Authority of India (AAI) by the   for its expansion. With quite a few expansion-related projects taking off at the existing airport, the facility will serve people well until the new airport is ready. Also, the compensation package for the landowners is being created in such a way that they themselves will turn up and readily accept it,” Bapat said.
 
 What delay means
 
 Aviation experts and the business community said the delay could result in confusion. Besides, air traffic in the city, which is growing every year, could become too much for the existing airport to handle, they said.
 
 As per figures provided by the AAI, the revenue generated by the Pune airport was Rs 7.87 lakh in 2011-12, which increased each year since. In 2015-16, the revenue touched Rs 11.72 lakh. In terms of growth, the airport witnessed a growth of 23% during 2015-16. At present, it handles 142 scheduled flight movements, with as many as 16 new flights of different airlines in queue waiting for slots.
 
 “This will mean a lot of confusion and chaos considering the fact that that it will take nothing less than two to three years for the existing airport to develop and operate expansion projects. There is already a lot of confusion at the airport and one was hoping that the new airport comes fast. The existing airport cannot handle a lot of air and passenger traffic. Delaying things will make matters worse,” a businessman, who requested anonymity, said.
 
 Aviation expert and analyst Dhairyashil Vandekar said any delay in the project would impact development.
 
 “People of Pune and western Maharashtra have pinned their hopes on   getting operational by 2019. It is important that the CM clarifies the situation instead of his ministers coming out with new extended deadlines. The government must ensure that such a critical project, on which many aspirations hinge, is completed as promised and does not become like the delayed Navi Mumbai airport project,” Vandekar told TOI.
 
 “There have been many announcements like new roads leading to the airport and a terminal building, but these things will take time. Moreover, why develop the existing airport by spending so much money if one still believes the CM’s announcement about the new airport being ready by 2019? Pune desperately needs its own airport fast,” another person from the business community said.
 
 Impact on 2019 poll
 
 Sources said the delay could impact BJP’s 2019 Lok Sabha poll prospects. “People have been told time and again about the new airport for 10 years. If the project gets delayed, the state government’s credibility will be at stake,” a source said.
 
 Speedy roads 
 
 Bapat also told TOI that the corridor between Pune and Saswad would be made wide and speedy. “It will take nothing more than 25 to 30 minutes for people to reach the new airport from Pune,” Bapat said.
 
 The MADC, meanwhile, said all announcements regarding the new airport will now come only after the elections.
 
