Let me place on record: I put more emphasis on the pleasure a restaurant provides than on the ambitions it flexes, and I always take cost into account. A couple of weeks ago, I chanced upon such a highly enjoyable, moderately priced restaurant. We drove to   in   and were (thankfully) not recognised until I’d paid the bill. And I’m happy to report that the experience was enjoyable on almost every count.

 
 
 Casual and minimally done up interiors with modern-day art on the walls. India Bistro sits side by side with China Bistro.
 
 
 
 Happily, India Bistro’s menu is smartly calibrated. The ratio of hearty to lighter fare and of vegetarian to non-vegetarian dishes is just right. Begin with a complimentary amuse-bouche of chatpatti Pani Puri (with the pani served in injections). This jugalbandi of spicy flavours and presentation continues through the crunchy Palak Patte ki Chaat. Luscious creaminess marks the Chukander Ke Kebab and the Galouti Kebab. Butter chicken gets a new name — Murgh Maska — but retains its addictive popular flavours. And robustly spiced Railway Mutton Curry delights as does the moist Gosht Dum Biryani. Must order the Masala Chaas and must end your meal with the chilled and creamy, Litchi ki Tehri. Bartenders stir and shake up innovative signature cocktails and mocktails, too.
 
 
 
 The décor could do with more atmosphere and the Baingan ka Bharta with more of a characteristic smokiness. Paneer Royal Chilli is a strange hybrid.
 
 
 
 Though India Bistro labels its food as ‘Modern Indian’, I am happy that it’s none of that overworked scientific mumbo jumbo, even though it’s innovatively presented. You won’t have trouble spotting something appealing on the menu, and won’t be puzzled when it arrives. Generous portions, authentic flavours, too. The cooking may have less subtlety but has a more solidly pleasing appeal. It reflects the guiding spirit of its owner, the unstoppable Sanjay Vazirani, whose catering empire has a pan Indian footprint and his restaurant chains (China Bistro, Glocal Junction, India Bistro) are setting up on a galloping pace. He is bullish about restraining the prices (`1,000 for 2) and accelerating the crowd-pleasing factor. Way to go.
 
