BENGALURU: They had come to bid final adieu to a dear one. But Palanisamy and his family members were aghast at the poor infrastructure facilities at Wilson Garden electric crematorium on Tuesday. Angry, they aired their grievances to  , chairman of the BBMP standing committee on taxation and finance. Gunashekar and his team were doing the rounds of burial grounds and crematoriums.

 “The facilities here are very bad. The walls have no paint, water is constantly seeping, and the bathrooms are usable. There’s no hygiene and maintenance. How can we take a bath here,” asked Palanisamy. 
 
 Leaky ceilings, peeling walls and dirty bathrooms were some of the issues that came to the fore at the Wilson Garden electric crematorium. While the burial ground was littered with construction debris and garbage, there was no mechanism to control the smoke emitting from the electric crematorium. Usually, scrubbers are required to purge the black smoke of pollutants, releasing only white smoke which is harmless. Apart from setting up an RO purification system for clean drinking water, the place is in dire need of pollution-control equipment and sanitary facilities. 
 
 Noting the gravity of the situation, Gunashekar said adequate funds should be allocated for the upkeep and maintenance of burial grounds in the city; Rs 2 crore had been allocated in the 2016-2017 budget. “The BBMP has failed to maintain these properties. We spend crores to build roads, but hesitate to spend money in these areas. There was no provision in the 2015 masterplan to envision and build more burial grounds. Their number has to keep pace with increasing population,” he said, adding that he would secure permission from the BBBP for building burial grounds even outside the Palike limits.
 
 Gunashekar said as of now, development of burial grounds and electric crematoriums came under zonal projects. “The money for these works should come from the project head office. Subsequently, we will allocate necessary funds in the next BBMP budget. As far as maintenance in concerned, the current system has failed. We want the horticulture and forest department to take over the maintenance of these properties,” he said. 
 
 While visiting the   and electric crematorium, Gunashekar demanded installation of LED lights across the 84-acre property which is fed by a single borewell. The property is the largest in Bangalore east, catering to nearly 45 wards. 
 
 “We will allocate Rs 4-5 crore for building a new block to supplement the existing electric crematorium as there is adequate space and the demand is high,” said Gunashekar. The BBMP will allocate Rs 1 crore for the upkeep of the grave of  , former President of India, housed at Kalpalli, he added.
 
 Of the 130 burial grounds and 12 electric crematoriums in the city, 11 doesn’t have adequate air-cleaning facility. Only   in Yelahanka has a functional plant to treat the air. It has two furnaces, but is plagued by inadequate water supply, as the single pump that feeds the property runs dry in summer. 
 
 Gunashekar asked for trees to be planted around the property. “I have requested that all crematoriums be equipped with proper machinery to treat smoke,” he said. The Yelahanka burial ground lacked boundary wall, drinking water supply, toilets or even a gate to indicate its presence. Worried about encroachment by a highrise coming up in the vicinity, Gunashekar sought a resurvey of the property limits. The place didn’t even have a caretaker and the burial ground was in utter disarray, with mounds of garbage lying around. 
 
