Delhi girl  , who was recently evicted from the   house, was one of the few inmates who stayed clear of controversies during their stay in the house. A couple of days after her eviction, DT took Nitibha to her alma mater,  , and she was completely overwhelmed by the response she got from the faculty and the students there.

 "I graduated in 2014 and did not get a chance to visit college since then. My college has played a key role in my journey because it has been pivotal in shaping who I am today. I learnt to be outspoken and outgoing here. I owe a lot to this place," she said.
 
  
  
 
 When she entered the college, some students did not recognize her, while others came up to her and asked, "You are Nitibha, right? We watched you on the show and you were great!" By the lunch break, the whole college knew that Nitibha, the Bigg Boss contestant and their senior, was in the college. While making a video of her classroom, Nitibha told us, "This feels weird! It has been a long time, I miss this place. This was the classroom where I last attended my lectures. I was a padhaku during my college days and always did well in studies."
 
 
  
  Nitibha Kaul has some fun on the college grounds(BCCL)
 
  About the celebrity treatment she got, Nitibha said, "It was unbelievable. Everyone is calling me a celebrity now, but I don’t feel like a celebrity. I am just a normal girl visiting her college. I felt great thinking that all the teachers are respecting my journey in the entertainment industry, which they do not relate to, at all. I feel proud that they are so happy with my decision to quit my job, and do something so different."
 
  
  Nitibha Kaul poses with students in her college(BCCL)
 
 
  Moving near the ground area, where she used to chill with her friends, Nitibha clicked selfies with students. While some students took pictures with her, and some spoke to her about her stint at Bigg Boss, there were others who wanted to know about her journey so far. Some even gave suggestions to her – 'Aap ne Lopa ko kuch kaha kyu nahi?', 'Aap ki wajah se dekhte thay Bigg Boss.' Chetna Nathani, a first year student, who was excited about taking selfies with Nitibha, told us, "I knew that she was from our college, and I was watching the show because of her. It feels great to know that your senior is in the show, she had made us all proud." Students near the ground area were heard saying – "Oye, Nitibha aayi hai". "She got evicted two days ago, itni jaldi kaise aa gayi?" "It takes only two hours from Mumbai to reach here," was her prompt reply. 
 
  
  (L-R) Sameer Anand, Ajay Jaiswal, Kumar Bijoy,   (Principal), Nitibha, Neeraj Kumar Sehrawat, Nidhi Kesari, Ramesh Kumar, Madhu Totla, Rishi Rajan Sahay, Gurjeet Kaur, Saumya Jain, Tushar Marwaha (BCCL)
 
 
 
 Poonam Verma, the principal of the college who was busy in a staff meeting, took some time off to meet Nitibha. Not only did she take pictures with her, but also asked all other teachers to get clicked with the Bigg Boss contestant. "I did not follow the show regularly, but I got to know about it in bits and pieces, from here and there. We are so proud of her. Our alumni have been making us proud in the business sector, but it feels great to know that someone is making us proud in the entertainment industry as well," she said.
 
 
