CHENNAI: Incentives to get lakhs of students enrolled in state-run schools in Tamil Nadu have apparently yielded result, as enrolment in government and private schools has shot up, a survey has shown. However, the state does not meet the prescribed  .
The percentage of schools in the state adhering to the ideal teacher-pupil ratio of 1:30 is just 52%, according to the   (ASER) 2016 released on Wednesday .
 
 The percentage, which had seen a steady increase until 2014, saw a 6% drop from 58.6% in 2014 to 52% in 2016. This translates to thousands of schools which do not meet the basic requirement of having sufficient teachers.“This means that if the ideal ratio would stand at 100%, the existing ratio is nearly 50% away from the ideal,“ said said B Oliver, state head (Tamil Nadu), Pratham, the agency that released the ASER study .
 
 The report that primarily focuses on private and government schools in rural parts of different states reported that TN's current standing is even 1% lower than the already dismal national average (53%). Nationally, this puts us in the 17th position among the 29 states.
 
 But what really stands out is the sharp, sudden decline in what was a natural progression of schools which were slowly but surely recruiting teachers. While only 49.2% of schools in the state met the ideal ratio back in 2012, this figure shot up in the next two years as there had been a lot of teacher appointments, particularly in government schools.
 
 By 2014, the state had nearly 58.6% schools meeting the standards, but this sudden fall has indicated several flaws in the system. The ASER team said one of the reasons for this was the TET (Teacher Eligibility Test) that has not been conducted for at least three years now due to a pending case in the  . Moreover, teacher associations had also expressed concern over losing their appointments if they couldn't clear the test by November 2016.
 
 The associations had claimed that at least 3,000 teacher jobs were at stake last year as they were not given the exemption “that they deserved.“  , education activist and director, Change India, says the state had carried out a mass recruitment of gover nment teachers in 2012, but this was not carried out in the years that followed.
 
 “There had always been a shortage of teachers in the state. While there are government schools in the state with 3 teachers and only 10 students, there are also schools with 3 teachers and hundreds of students. This inadequacy tips the balance,“ he said, pointing out that there is no review mechanism in place to check this. “There aren't even inspectors in the state to conduct checks,“ he added.
 
 While the state may not be exactly on top when it comes to the report card this year, it stands taller in many respects when compared to other states. Overall, the national findings showed several improvements in different parameters, including reading ability, in the early grades in government schools. This was reflected in Tamil Nadu too enrolment, number of playgrounds, drinking water and toilet facilities have gone up this year with a significant percentage increase from 2010 to 2016.
 
 The reading and arithmetic skills too seem to be higher than the national average in the state.
 
