NEW DELHI: India has decided to focus on strengthening the Bay of Bengal Initiative for Multi-Sectoral Technical and Economic Cooperation ( ) amid  's continued intransigence in blocking key anti-terror and connectivity initiatives under the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation or  .
 
  This explains the recent move to club BIMSTEC Division with SAARC in the external affairs ministry, officials said.
  
  Nepal, as the BIMSTEC chair, is scheduled to host the group's summit this year, the first since the   government assumed office in May 2014.
  
  Picking up from where BIMSTEC leaders left during their retreat in Goa last October the bloc is expected to add teeth to their counter-terror partnership. BIMSTEC Convention on Mutual Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters is ready for signature, the grouping's secretary general Sumith Nakandala told ET from Dhaka, which houses its secretariat. Nakandala visited Delhi last week to discuss steps to give momentum to the grouping's functioning.
  
  "BIMSTEC Convention on Cooperation in Combating International Terrorism, Transnational Organised Crime and Illicit Drug Trafficking was signed in 2009. While Bhutan and Nepal are in the process of ratification, all other member states have ratified it… The BIMSTEC leaders at their retreat emphasised greater cooperation in fighting terrorism," Nakandala said.
  
  A number of meetings are likely to be organised by the grouping in the run-up to the summit, which comes after the one held in Myanmar in March 2014.
  
  The   signalled that strengthening regional cooperation between South and Southeast Asia through BIMSTEC is a priority, choosing the grouping as it did for outreach with BRICS leaders following their summit in Goa.
  
  India as the biggest country in the BIMSTEC is giving special attention to the grouping in the 20th year of its creation. The grouping, which does not include Pakistan, could serve as an alternative to the SAARC to give countries in South Asia a new direction, said a persons familiar with the developments.
  
  Although India has strong bilateral counter-terror cooperation with certain BIMSTEC nations – Bangladesh, Myanmar, Thailand and Nepal – an annual national security adviser level meet for the grouping and launch of a BIMSTEC de-radicalisation initiative are on the cards, said the person, who did not wish to be identified.
  
  BIMSTEC has five members in common with the SAARC – India, Sri Lanka, Nepal, Bhutan and Bangladesh – while Thailand and Myanmar are the other two members. While no immediate expansion is on the cards there has been speculation about entry of Afghanistan and Maldives in this bloc. "BIMSTEC needs to consolidate the instruments of regional cooperation within itself," Nakandala said.
  
  Pakistan has been blocking connectivity initiatives such as SAARC Motor Vehicles Agreement and SAARC Railways Agreement, and refusing to cooperate on combating cross-border terrorism. The SAARC had adopted a Convention on Mutual Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters almost eight years ago. 
