The battle lines are clearly drawn. The pitch might be different, but if he’s bowling, his eyes are on the wicket. “Of course, it will depend on my bowling capacity and, somewhat, the wind,” he tells us, sipping on Darjeeling tea on a warm Sunday morning.  , fresh from the National Award win for Best Bengali Film, says when it comes to cinema, he is not ready to spare the opponents an inch, setting the ball rolling for an interview and the war that will soon follow with a clash of big-ticket ventures on Poila Boishakh. Excerpts: 

 
 
 Whenever I submit my films for awards, there are expectations. Having received the National Award a few times, I can well do some assessment about the elements in the film. It’s not that they click all the time; it all depends on the chairman of the jury. If he’s Ramesh Sippy or  , it’s a gharana. If it’s MS Sathyu or  , it’s another gharana. A film’s social relevance and importance are always taken into account, apart from its cinematic idiom. For  , I thought the actors will get feted; particularly, Jaya Ahsan. She is brilliant and I was hopeful about her winning the Best Actress award. Since she’s from  , I was wondering if she was eligible for the award. I even told her, ‘Why don’t you marry an Indian?’ She told me, ‘Can I marry a tree?’ Jokes apart, any actor coming from another country 
 is eligible for the award. Be it   or me, a certain standard in acting has been maintained... Also, the friendly atmosphere between India and Bangladesh gets reflected in the film. Bishorjon also talks about communal harmony. Having said that, it’s not made for the awards. It’s a simple story set in a village and has its own appeal. I wouldn’t say the National Award was unexpected. There have been times when I expected and did not get the award. I was overconfident about both   and Cinemawala. When none of them made the cut, I was upset for 15 
 minutes and got back to work. I am happy that Bishorjon got it; it will help people know that an original film is releasing on Poila Boishakh. There’s no better way to start the Bengali New Year than watching Bishorjon. Now it’s up to the audience to decide if they want to see the Best Bengali Film on the first day of the year or something else.
 
 
 Right after the award, Churni congratulated me on Twitter after everyone else. But she was the first to call me after the win and I also called her in between work. I tried to catch up with her for lunch but that did not happen. We met at night. There was no special dinner at home and we 
 didn’t get food from outside. Every time we win an award, this is always the picture at home. It has never affected our life in any way. A tight hug follows every award and that’s about it. Our son, Ujaan, too is like that. Awards, I feel, are accidental. Having scored some out-of-the-world tunes, AR Rahman ended up winning the Oscar for Jai ho! The score of Bombay was superior, yet it went unnoticed. Success is accidental. It doesn’t affect the way I dress up or go about my daily chores. I am a director by profession, I work with a lot of passion, but once I am home, I lead a normal life.
 
 
 
 When Churni was busy with the post-production of her debut directorial, Nirbashito, I had left for the shoot of Khaad with the whole team for a month. I could not come down even for a day to help her. Churni was very sad and did everything on her own, be it giving inputs for editing, background score or sound design. On days, I would send my third or fourth assistant, only to be told by Churni that she can manage on her own. I was guilty, but had no option. In a way I feel that helped her. Despite being an actress, she has always been technically very strong. Before Bishorjon, I had not directed a film for a year. My last was Dhumketu. 
 
 Those who easily say how I make back-to-back films, never said a word. Let me tell you, it’s difficult for a director to sustain without making two films a year. No one pays enough so that we can sit idle for five years after making a film. So, many of us need to make two films a year to pay for petrol, wear decent clothes and enjoy mangsho-bhaat on Sundays. When I started Chaya O Chobi after Bishorjon, Churni said she will look into the post-production. Though I could never help her, she went out of her way to help me; it was sweet revenge for her. With her help, we managed to get the film censored by December 31 and sent it for the National Awards. These things often go unnoticed. See, Churni cannot be penalised for being a director’s wife. She already has been, as no one calls her for a role. When I cast her, I am being asked why I do so. My question is, what is she expected to do? Should she be growing a garden? Churni has accepted the fact that people won’t call her for work. She writes her own scripts, runs the family... Now that Ujaan is an adult, she has enough time to figure out her life. She helps me in my work and I mention her as my ‘creative partner’ in the credit rolls. 
 
 
 
 There are ways by which you can bog people down with appreciation. By appreciating the actor Kaushik Ganguly, you might try to limit the director Kaushik Ganguly. By saying I make films for awards, many try to create an impression that it’s not meant for the masses. There’s a difference between box office and out of the box. If your film isn’t out of the box, you aren’t giving anything special. An original story, self-written or adapted, can be told through either a popular method or a different language of cinema. You might sing adhunik songs or Ragpradhan. What you sing is your choice. What’s the point in saying someone has learnt Ragpradhan for concerts? I have made C/O Sir, Bastu Shaap, Khaad… I am doing things to my calibre. I can’t go beyond that. I have made films on various subjects in the past years, why then call me an awards’ darling? If I was making films for festivals, they wouldn’t be running in theatres even for a day. My language is different. I feel there’s nothing called what I like, box office or awards. People bring respect through box-office success or awards. I feel few have brought that respect like I have. I have done enough and will tell my stories till I can.
 
 
 
 Sitting in Bengal, where there’s a treasure trove of literary jewels, if I have to lift a story from south, it’s very sad. Are we not being able to create writers or do the south people eat better that they produce such thinkers? What are our writers doing? Are people not reading them? Or some people want to take the shortcut and simply remake successful ventures? Remakes should get the distinction of fast food. It’s a different business. They should not be spoken about so much, as they don’t deserve it. When I am remaking a film, it doesn’t matter if I am changing the shots. It’s already someone else’s creation. It’s like a burger stall. If you are in a hurry, you will pick up a burger and eat. If you want to celebrate Bangaliana, you come to a pice hotel, where you get bhaat-dal and can ask for mochar ghonto. It’s like going back to 
 the roots.
 
 
 
 Both Raj (Chakrabarty) and Birsa (Dasgupta) matter to me, as I know them. I have attended a few of their premieres. When I am free, I go, watch interesting shots in a film and come back. They too know my mindset well. I can never say, ‘Bro, what a film!’ No, I am not that. They don’t expect that from me; they are very intelligent people. Raj believes in the films he makes. He has tasted success, returned the producer’s money and knows he will do it when he wants to. Through their films, Raj and Birsa try to add their signature touch. It’s better for a remake film, if the context is changed to Bengal. Otherwise, there’s no point in being a photocopy machine.
 
 
 
 There’s no question of an offer coming by. The first call is always mine. If I feel I have the right film for SVF, I will approach them. I will ask for a date, read the script, after that it’s their call. Yes, we did a few films together. I still meet them regularly; even if I don’t do a film for them, we will remain friends. When you do many films with a production house, they become a habit. And it’s neither good for me nor for Moni (Mahendra Soni) or Shrikant (Mohta). It’s better not to do films at a stretch so that both parties crave for it. SVF is a bad habit for directors. They have a sound infrastructure and once you have made a film, you don’t need to look at it again. It will get packaged, labelled and you will again see it at the store. I, on the other hand, love to be involved with my films. Reason, I work with independent producers. If a flex of my film in a theatre gets damaged, I ask Iqbal to take a look. When Ujaan goes to college, I still find out if he turned off the geyser. I am enjoying my association with Suprarnakanti Karati. One person sent a picture of a hoarding that had turned pink. We both figured out what went wrong. About issues with SVF, people have to while away their time. What’s better than gossiping about others? Producer and directors never have a difference, apart from over money. There’s no fight between kite and kite-flying thread.
 
 
 While shooting at Taki, I would see cows, women washing clothes, hear the horn of scooters though they were in another country. It made me wonder how the river or fish have no boundaries, only land has. Clouds know no divide, likewise, love too can’t be divided. I know people whose aunt’s house is right across the road, yet they can’t go so often as it falls within the territory of another country. Though it’s illegal, border security guards allow them; I wanted to tell their stories. Also, my father was born in Kumilla. He used to speak in bangal dialect. That I have acted in the film is all thanks to him.
 
 
 We were working on the song, Ja jaye jaye re/bhaisha bhatir taane. A day before he met with the fatal accident, I asked him who was singing it. He said, ‘Rupankar’, and added, ‘I am not there tomorrow and will come back day after for the recording.’ Later, I told Rupankar that I will like to retain the scratch sung by Kalikaprasad. Also, we are not doing anything to change the world. In the context of world cinema, we are perhaps running little mags. But in that, I will not tolerate any hypocrisy.
 
 
 
  is yet to dub for it. The producer (Rana Sarkar) is arranging for the money. He spent a lot of money to complete the film. It’s easy to say he ruined the chances of the movie, but financial crunch cannot be anyone’s fault. I am ready to wait. Dev or I may have issues over remuneration, but he has spent a lot of money. I have been asked about the movie time and again. It has now become people’s favourite question. I have a month-and-a-half’s work left on the film. If there’s a problem, Rana will give it to someone else. It would be unfortunate, if it never comes out. I am a labourer working on the project. When I will be asked to paint the windows, I will do so. Right now, I am 
 concentrating on Bishorjon and how to draw the crowds to theatres. It’s not that I get housefull boards every day, but when I do get, there’s no alternative to that. It’s victory not just for me, but also 
 original cinema.
 
 
