BHUBANESWAR: Praising the glorious legacy of Odia people, President   on Friday said it inspires the rest of the country. 

 The President, who inaugurated the Prabasi Odia Conclave, 2017, organized by the Odisha Forum in New Delhi also remembered the entrepreneurship and business acumen of the Odias as well as the state's rich history of art, culture, music, dance and architecture. 
 
 "While reflecting on prabasi Odias, my mind goes back to deep recesses of history of the state. The earliest examples of prabasi Odias represent fine examples of entrepreneurship and business acumen which are now needed and indeed applied, across India to register higher growth and development," he said.
 
 Cherishing the growth of Odia people in different spheres, Mukherjee said a large pool of prabasi Odias are well-known for their excellence in diverse fields of politics, judiciary, journalism, bureaucracy and literature. "They have registered their presence in every nook and corner of India on the strength of their merit and worth and have attained excellence based on their higher educational attainments," he added.
 
 Also, the President emphasised to bring together the diverse talent pool of the state from different parts of India and world and harness their capabilities and expertise for growth, development and progress of Odisha and India. 
 
 Recalling the contribution of  , popularly known as Utkal Gaurab (pride of Odisha), the President said it was also he (Utkal Gaurab) who established the first educational institution for women which became a college in 1913 much ahead of the first women's university was set up in Bombay in 1916.
 
 Madhusudan Das spent considerable part of his life outside Odisha spearheading a movement to unify Odisha as a separate state, he said, adding it was with his efforts that women law graduates could enter the legal profession as a practicing member of the Bar in India. He also praised the role of   in the freedom struggle of the country. Chief minister   and Union oil minister Dharmendra Pradhan also addressed the gathering on the occasion. The conclave organized to discuss different aspects of Odisha would continue till January 8.
 
 
