HYDERABAD: With the temperatures rising early and fast, water shortage is back to haunt the residents of hitech Hyderabad. Those living in the western corridor of the city are already dependent on tankers and suppliers of bottled water, apart from coughing up a fatter monthly maintenance fee in apartments to keep the taps in their homes running.

 Water woes have affected all, from posh gated communities to residents of middle-income colonies. “After installing rain water filters in our apartment, we had a good supply that lasted for six months. Now, we are once again at the mercy of water tankers. We shell out nearly `3,000 every month to keep our taps running. While this may sound ridiculously high, I found out that certain flat residents are forced to shell out as much as `5,000 per month,“ said  , a resident of Gautami Enclave, Kondapur. He does not see an end to the problem until measures are taken to recharge the ground water levels.
 
 Hoping to avoid the daily depen dence on tankers, a few residential colonies have drilled additional borewells. “We recently got two additional borewells in our colony to specifically cater to residents during summer. If we depend on tankers, we need to shell out thousands of rupees per month. The borewell, however, entails only a monthly fee of less than `500,“ said Subhashini M, a resident of Chandanagar.
 
 A few shopkeepers have decided to turn the situation to their advantage and have procured tanks in order to sell water. “Last year, we noticed that people were flocking to shops selling 20-litre water cans for Rs 15. So this year, I installed a water tank near my shop and will sell cans at a lower price to residents who are willing to carry them home themselves. Home delivery will be done at double the price,“ said   , a shop owner in Cyberabad.
 
 Confirming the acute shortage of water, a driver working with the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWSSB) said that they are sending around 50 water tankers daily to the Kukatpally area alone.
 
 “On any given day, we get orders for at least 40 to 50 tankers. In the next two months, the demand will only go up further to at least 150 tankers per day ,“ said  , a driver who fills his tanker at Nizampet.
 
 The only people looking forward to the impending situation are owners of private water tankers who hope for an early start to their booming business.
 
