BENGALURU: A City Armed Reserve (CAR) constable posted at the chief minister's home office is battling for life, while his   at their   home on Tuesday morning. Police suspect it could be a  . 

  Subhash Chandra alias Subhash Sakrihalli, 35, and his wife Veena S, 28, allegedly consumed poison after feeding it to their three-year-old daughter Manvi and 18-month-old son Prithvi at their flat in police quarters, Hegde Nagar, off Outer Ring Road on Monday night. The family lived on the first floor of the Vedavathi block.
 
 According to family sources, Subhash was deep in debt. The incident came to light on Tuesday morning when his elder brother Kotreshi Sakrehalli arrived from Ballari. When repeated knocks on the door did not elicit any response, Kotreshi peeped through the window.
 
  "Kotreshi saw all of them lying in the bedroom, motionless. He immediately broke open the door and shifted them to hospital. Veena, Manvi and Prithvi were declared dead on arrival," police said. Investigators said the reason behind the extreme step is a mystery as no death note was recovered from the house. They also said it is unclear who among the couple took the decision. "Doctors have said the next 24 hours are critical. Only after Subhash becomes stable can we question him and know the sequence of events," cops said. 
 
  A private company employee, Kotreshi lives in Hebbal. "Kotreshi's wife had gone to her natal home in Ballari. Kotreshi had called Subhash on Monday night, saying he would reach Bengaluru the next morning and would come straight to his brother's house for breakfast," police sources said. 
 
 Subhash, who hailed from Ballari, was posted at the CM's home office Krishna. Veena was from Davanagere and the couple tied the knot in 2011, family sources said. The couple had no marital dispute, confirmed police.
 
  "Subhash had joined the security team at the CM's home office in January this year. According to Kotreshi, Subhash had borrowed huge sums of money from relatives and friends," police sources said. 
 
