Mumbai: It’s not just consumer staples from the stables of Nestle, Pepsi and Hindustan Unilever which were hit due to demonetization, but   also lost their shine. 

 De Beers, one of the world’s top diamond mining groups, was also impacted due to the government’s “surprise’’ demonetization programme in November. “In India, a month-long jewellers’ strike in March and the government’s surprise   programme which started in November, had a considerable negative impact on demand,”   said after releasing its annual results for 2016 on February 21. Specific figures for the drop in India business were not readily available.
 
 Demand for gold and diamond jewellery slumped after the government banned Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 notes in November, limiting liquidity in the hands of people to purchase these high-ticket items. Many diamond processing units in Surat were also shut following demonetization, affecting the supply in the market. Jewellery demand in the country also witnessed a sharp decline of 22% in 2016, at 514 tonne compared to 662.3 tonnes in 2015, according to World Gold Council. Overall, De Beers’ total revenue increased by 30% to $6.1 billion for the year, driven by higher rough diamond sales but future growth will be dependent on a host of factors. “The extent of global growth will, however, be dependent upon a number of macroeconomic factors, including the new administration in US, economic performance in China, the effect of Indian demonetisation, and retail sentiment in US and China”, the company said. 
 
 However, the company witnessed a sustained diamond jewellery demand growth in US and marginally positive growth for the full year in China (in local currency, though declining slightly in US dollars). For the full year, global consumer demand, in US dollars, is estimated to be in line with 2015. Additional marketing in US, China, India and Japan in the final quarter of the year, the main selling season, had a positive impact.
 
 Producers destocked during 2016, as sentiment in the midstream improved and rough and polished inventories normalised, supported by a series of initiatives put in place by the company in the second half of 2015. These included lowering rough prices, providing flexibility to sightholders for their purchase arrangements and increased marketing activity to drive consumer demand, the company said.
 
 
