GAYA: With pre-appointment formalities like shortlisting and interaction over, race for the all-important post of Magadh University vice-chancellor (VC) has gathered momentum. Nearly six names are doing the rounds in the academic circles. On its part, the Raj Bhavan has left people speculating about the likely incumbent of the hot seat, that in the past has been the centre of many a controversy.

 The names doing the rounds include R K Sinha, professor of zoology, Patna University, Mithila University former VC Saket Kushwaha and Sido Kanhu Murmu University, Dumka (Jharkhand) VC Prof Qamar Ahsan. Sinha, better known as ‘Dolphin Man’, is said to be the frontrunner.
 
 Kushwaha, during his stint as Mithila University VC, had been in the news for several reasons. Of the three names doing the rounds, two have been teachers of economics. Kushwaha taught agriculture economics at Benaras Hindu University.
 
 Qamar Ahsan, prior to his appointment as VC in neighbouring Jharkhand, has been a professor of economics at AN College, Patna. Earlier, he held the post of VC of the Maulana Mazharul Haq Arabic and Persian University.
 
 Interestingly, the post of   VC has come to be regarded as jinxed as, during the last two decades, at least five former VCs of the university have faced criminal cases and three of them have been to jail. Even a former judge who was appointed MU VC after being superannuated got charge sheeted by the economic offences wing of the CID. S C Mukherjee, former judge and ex-VC is currently on bail following the charge sheet submitted against him in a degree scam case.
 
 The legal trauma of former MU VCs, one of whom was even found guilty of contempt of court by the high court for feigning illness to escape personal appearance (the ‘sick’ VC suffering from ‘diarrhoea’ was filmed with a plateful of non-vegetarian food at a seminar in Gaya college), has not deterred academics from vying for the position.
 
 The biggest university of the state has got 24 PG departments, 44 constituent, four minority colleges and 100 plus affiliated colleges spread over seven districts of Magadh and Patna divisions.
 
 
