PATIALA: 5 people including a former Congress   from Budhlada have been booked for abetment to suicide and criminal conspiracy following a suicide committed by a 32-year-old man of Patran town in the district. T

 he family of the victim alleged the interference of the former MLA under whose influence the police failed to register any case despite the victim was assaulted by his own brother in law and others.
 
 Victim   (32) was married around 10 years back to Malina of Bathinda city. Police claimed that the victim on September 13 had raised objection against the owner of a private school in Patran where his wife used to work as a teacher. The victim objected after he was suspected the illicit relations of his wife with the school owner  . 
 
 The police revealed that the school owner along with others thrashed and assaulted the victim Sandeep Kumar on the same day while his wife left to her maternal house in Bathinda. The victim next day went to his in-laws in Bathinda where victim’s brother-in-law Mohit Kumar along with others following which Sandeep remain admitted in civil hospital Sangrur from September 18 to 24. 
 
 The victim alleged that police did not register a complaint under the influence of Mangat Rai Bansal, a former legislator. The next day, on September 25 Sandeep committed suicide.
 
 Besides Bansal, the Patran police have booked victim’s wife Malina, her brother Mohit Kumar and his friend  , the school owner Rakesh Kumar, and Rakesh’s wife cum school principal  . 
 
 “We have registered a case against 5 accused including Mangat Rai Bansal for abetment to suicide on the complaint of victim's mother  . No arrests have been made yet. The victim’s family alleged that Sandeep was assaulted by his in-laws and was instead booked under sections of preventive detention (107, 151 of Indian Penal Code) and the former MLA played a key role in not getting registered his complaint anywhere,” said, Amanpal Singh Virk, Station House Officer Patran police station.
 
 
