NAGPUR: The city may not have thrown up any great classical musician, but it has always held significance as a destination for performers. “Nagpur has been known for its appreciative audience and artists who came to perform here were honoured and heard with enthusiasm. There was this belief that if a musician can win the audience of Nagpur, he will be a success anywhere in the country,” says music teacher  , who has researched on musical traditions of Vidarbha.

 From the 30s to 70s, there were many maestros like Mallikarjun Mansoor, Pt Jasraj and Ustad   who gave performances in the homes of the rich and upper middle class, especially in the Mahal area. “Baburao Deshmukh, an extremely affluent resident, invited renowned artists from across the country to perform at his house at least three times a week. It was he who created this environment in which listening and learning music thrived,” says Mangrulkar.
 
 Such was the popularity of these mehfils that listeners themselves were tempted to indulge by way of learning vocal and instrumental music. This led to many music schools springing up in this area, the more famous among them being Chatur Sangeet Vidyalaya and Guru Gayan Vadyanalay, both located at Badkas Chowk, and Sharda Sangeet Vidyalay.
 
 “Those were the days when Chitra Talkies was an auditorium where a number of cultural performances would take place,” says violinist Pravin Kaole, whose father Vishnupant Kaole had started a music school in 1953.
 
 Though maximum number of music schools were concentrated in Mahal, a few also sprang up in adjacent areas of Itwari and Sitabuldi, says Mangrulkar. What also contributed to this culture were a long line of dedicated teachers. “Prabhakar Khadnavis, Bhaiyyaji Wazalwar and Pathak guruji, who came from  , had trained some very fine vocalists,” he says.
 
 But it was at Shriram Sangeet Vidyalay at Sitabuldi where Shankarrao Sapre trained two of the most famous musicians from the city. “Both, Vasanstrao Deshpande and C. Ramchandra, whose real name was Ramchandra Chitalkar, were his students,” he says.
 
 Sapre trained young boys and presented their programmes during Ganesh festival. In one such event, Master Vinayak, the doyen of Marathi cinema and father of actor Nanda, heard them and asked Sapre if he could take them to Mumbai. “Both became famous,” recalls Mangrulkar.
 
 The movement towards western Nagpur had not begun till the 70s. “The culture of learning music had spread and people wanted a school close to their homes,” says Aparna Agnihotri, head of the music department at Morris College who had her initial training at Chatur Sangeet Vidyalay.
 
 “I learnt music from Amrutrao Nistane who had founded this school. Those were the days of simplicity. We would sit on the floor and learn. I paid a monthly fee of Rs30. But there was utmost sincerity on part of the teacher and students too and music was taught and learnt with devotion,” she says.
 
 “The Bhoslas too where big patrons of music and helped spread this culture in Mahal,” says Tara Vilayachi, a teacher in Wardha whose grandfather Govindrao Vilayachi established Guru Gayan Vadyanalay. Great musicians like Vishnu Digambar Paluskar and Vishnu Narayan Bhathkhande felt that if musicians have to thrive then they must have a knowledgeable audience.
 
 ‘Not just   but we need Kansen too’ is a popular refrain in the city. “Paluskar and Bhathkande trained a dedicated band of teachers for promotion of Hindustani classical music and this trend of learning music became popular not just with the rich class but the urban middle class too,” says Vilayachi.
 
 In Nagpur there were many who wanted to pursue music which encouraged musicians like Bhaskarrao Morney, Nanaji Nacherkar and Gunwantrao Kakekar to set up schools. Instrumental became as popular as vocal and many schools began giving lessons in violin, table, dilruba, sitar, harmonium and flute.
 
 “Learning of music was confined to the guru shishya parampara so far. But opening of these schools led many who were otherwise studying or working to also take up music as part-time hobby,” says Vilayachi and adds that once it was introduced in colleges and universities, there was a surge in those who took up these courses. “The music schools also would help their students to take various music exams which encouraged more people to enrol with them,” she says.
 
 But the advent of television and later computers led to the fall of this rich tradition. “These schools were run by great teachers. But when they passed away, there was nobody to carry forward their legacy,” says Kaole, who till date runs violin classes started by his father. “Many residents of Mahal area also moved to western part of the city. This too contributed to the crumbling of this culture,” he adds.
 
 
