BENGALURU: One of the fall outs of   has been a  , used to treat  .

 Though the tax on stents has fallen from 5.5 % to 5%, their availability has been hit due to technical issues in billing.
 
 While hospitals anticipated a crunch and stocked up on stents, the next few weeks could be difficult if supplies don't resume.
 
 Unlike drugs, stents cannot be procured by patients.
 
 “What stent suits the patient, what is the exact length and width of the stent, the number of the stents required can be known only in the  .
 
 If the blockage is in more than one artery of the heart, then we need more than one stent.
 
 The stent that's used will be billed and not the entire set of 30 stents that come as a pack,“ said a source.
 
 Dr C N Manjunath, director of Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research, said there was a shortage but added that no patient had been affected.
 
 “After GST, we are not getting any new consignment. Be cause we had anticipated this, we...kept the stock ready.
 
 If we do not get a new con signment in the next two weeks, it will become a huge problem,“ he said.
 
 The government-run hos pital carries out 25-30 angio plasties everyday. “There is an issue in finding the appro priate size and length of the stent that is needed for patients. The government has to streamline the process and the same has been discussed with state and central government in meetings on GST,“ he said.
 
 Dr Milind Inaamdar, senior vice-president (supply chain) at Narayana Health, said the disruption was ex pected. “As of now, we have no problem with the supply of stents as we directly deal with the manufacturing companies. For a week, initially there was disruption but that was anticipated. We had planned our cases accordingly and interacted with the end user,“ he said. “Though the supply chain is resuming now in metro cities, it will take 2-3 weeks for the situation to be back to normal.“
 
 Across the country, through its 20 centres, Narayana Health carries out 60-70 angioplasty procedures a day .
 
 Several private hospitals in the city echoed Inaamdar, saying they had stocked in advance. Dr Girish B Navasundi, senior consultant for interventional cardiology at Apollo Hospitals, said as and when stents were used, they were being replenished within two hours.
 
 Manipal Heart Institute used up around 120 stents a month. “There was confusion earlier with regards to billing but that was all resolved. We had enough stock,“ said Dr Ranjan Shetty, consultant cardiologist at the institute.
 
 Manjunath said there were other concer ns too.Though the tax has reduced on stents, the GST on drugs, reagents and disposables has been increased from 2.5 to 12%. “When we do an angioplasty, what is used is not only stents, but drugs, reagents and disposables too.The situation may worsen if the gover nment does not streamline the process immediately,“ said Manjunath.
 
 
 
 
 These small expandable tubes, made of metal mesh, are used to treat narrowed or weakened arteries in the body. The size of the stent and number of stents required will be known only when the patient is operated upon and hence every hospital must be keep more than 30 stents of different sizes ready every time a patient undergoes an angioplasty.
 
