PATNA: Academic activities were restored at most of the constituent colleges of   (MU) in the city on Thursday as Matric examinations ended on Wednesday. The academic activities were paralysed in the colleges as they were made centres for Matric examinations from March 1 to 8 this month. Students turned up in large numbers and attended their classes in full strength.
 
  
 A senior teacher of College of Arts, Science and Commerce Saloni Prasad submitted a memorandum to MU acting vice-chancellor (VC) Kusum Kumari protesting denial of headship of the department of English to her by the college authorities. In her memorandum, she said a junior teacher has been made HoD of English department ignoring her genuine claim. Prasad, who is in the rank of university professor, urged the VC to do justice in her case.
  
  
  Degree Part III honours students started filling up their examination forms from Thursday. The university has fixed March 23 as the last date for filling up the forms. However, the university will accept forms with late fine of Rs 100 till April 3, an MU official said.
  
  
 Magadh University announced the results of Degree Part I honours courses on Thursday. The mark sheets of students have been despatched to all colleges of the university from where the students could collect them. In case of any discrepancy in the results, students could submit their applications at the Patna branch of MU office for rectification, an MU official said.
  
  
 Ganga  , a constituent unit of MU, celebrated International Women’s Day on the college campus on Wednesday. Women teachers organised a colourful programme in which girl students participated in large numbers. College principal   spoke about women empowerment and the role of women in development of the society.
  
  
 Practical examinations of Intermediate (science) will begin from March 16 at different colleges of MU. The   has already announced that results of science students would be declared soon after the completion of practical examinations. The board has shortlisted several colleges in the city to conduct Intermediate practical examinations.
  
  
  The university and college teachers got their salaries, which were due for the last three months, on Thursday. Most of the teachers heaved a sigh of relief as they got their salaries ahead of Holi festival.
  
  
 The university and colleges will remain closed from March 13 to 15 on account of Holi festival.
