NAGPUR: The apex body of the banned   (Maoist), also labelled as Naxalites, have admitted probably for the first time that they lost 205 cadres, including 54 women, of various ranks between July 2016 and May this year. The data was released by the   in a document drawn up by their highest administrative body, the Central Committee (CC), to motivate their cadres to observe the ‘Saheed saptah’ or martyrs’ week from July 28 to August 3, and mobilize masses and support.

 In the document, a copy of which is in possession of TOI, the Naxalite top brass have underlined the fact that they have lost 15,000 cadres and supporters in the last 50 years of armed rebellion, which they term as ‘protracted war’. The CC, on the eve of 50 years of Naxalbari, also motivated the cadres to take up responsibilities to counter ‘mission 2017’, which is a broad term they have concocted to describe the offensives of the security forces against them.
 
 The CC has laid out a plan in the document for the cadre. It asks them to seize the weapons of the security forces, implementing the rules and principles of guerrilla war — secrecy, speed, strong will, self-defences through change of place, and offensive tactics with initiative and intensity. It also asked them to widen the guerrilla war, reflecting the aggressive mood of the rebels’ top rung leaders. The same document also advocates utilizing the weaknesses of the forces, attack separate units, and divide the forces before launching an offensive.
 
 The CC committee also suggests organizing maximum meetings with local population at different levels to highlight the sacrifices of their leadership and guerrillas.
 
 Though the Naxalites claim to have lost 205 members, the number of deaths are much higher as per official data available with the government. Minister of state for home affairs Hansraj Ahir had said on the floor of the house that there was a 78% rise in the killing of left wing extremists or Naxalites, and their violence reduced by 22.25% between July 2014 and June 2017, in comparison to the three preceding years. Ahir had stated that the killings of Naxalites had gone up from 228 to 406 between July 2014 and June 2017.
 
 DIG,   range, Ankush Shinde said Naxalites are for the first time facing opposition from the tribals, who are putting up anti-rebel banners and posters in some parts of Gadchiroli and  . “We have for the first time an instance where tribals set Naxalite banners and posters on fire,” he said.
 
 “We are deploying strong posse of forces to thwart the Naxalites’ programmes during  ,” he said. “11 Naxalites were killed in 2016 and five this year in Maharashtra’s Gadchiroli,” said DIG Shinde.
 
