In 11 years of Twitter, we have come from questioning if 'hashtag activism' really accomplishes anything to using it as a powerful tool to gather ideas and images on one platform to collectively make a point. When it comes to social attitudes that are hard to shake, viral hashtags string hundreds of thousands of experiences together for you to perhaps comprehend how the other side experiences the world. And when it comes to gender equality, nothing has quite driven home the point than feminist hashtags in recent years. With their succinct, 140-character logic (because equal rights really aren’t that complicated), they have been more effective than shouting-down matches on TV.

  As a feminist blog puts it, "There is nothing to replace IRL action, but, to be fair, there’s nothing to replace action at the URL level, either." And in the past few years, this URL action has been able to stir up revolutions against everything from 'light-hearted sexism' (whatever that means) and misogyny to cold-blooded gender crimes, bringing women from across the globe together to use one character to enlighten the ignorant or shut down the chauvinists. Here are some that went viral recently:
 
 
  
 In the ridiculously confusing echo chamber of appropriate female dress codes came quite a sonic boom from the newly-elected US president,  , in February. An unnamed source told a news site that Trump likes the women on his staff to "to dress like women," and that even the women who had worked in Trump's campaign field offices – those who spent a lot of time outdoors – felt pressurised to wear dresses to "impress him". While no one was unfamiliar with Trump’s brand of womanhood – his wife and daughter are always in similarly sharp figure-hugging dress and pointy heels, he thinks his teenage daughter is "sexy" and "if she wasn't my daughter, well..." and that you should just "grab women by the pu**y" – this obtuse diktat from the new president perplexed many. He told women to dress like women, but didn’t offer anything by way of what it meant. So the other half of the world’s workforce took it upon themselves to illustrate, posting pictures of what they wore to work in order to clear the confusion. The result was #DressLikeAWoman, a massive Twitter kickback at male entitlement assuming women should dress for men instead of for the job they’ve been hired to do.
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 In May 2014, 22-year-old Elliot Rodger shot dead six people near the University of California Santa Barbara, before committing suicide. Weeks before the shooting spree, he began posting videos where he raged against the injustices of women who wouldn't 'give themselves to him':
 
  "College is the time when everyone experiences those things such as sex and fun and pleasure, but in those years I’ve had to rot in loneliness, it’s not fair. I don’t know why you girls aren’t attracted to me but I will punish you all for it.... All you girls who rejected me, looked down upon me, treated me like scum while you gave yourselves to other men."
 
  
  
 
  Rodger's mental state could hardly be called stable, considering his posts, but the groundwork of his ideology rang chillingly familiar. Our culture teaches us that women are rewards to be won, one in a series of trophies for one's alpha-ness, from wealth to fame. And like most men, he felt he was entitled to female attention. If women could ‘throw themselves at other men’, why not him? It was a crime and they had to be punished for it.
 
  As students protested the killing, #YesAllWomen was born out of the paralyzing frustration of the 'not all men' defence that follows every gender crime. That instead of recognising where and how rapists, molesters or stalkers are raised, men need to be comforted and rewarded for not having raped, molested or stalked anyone yet. The Rodger massacre, too, was followed by widespread anger for "hysterical" women blaming the tragedy on sexism, because perhaps he hadn’t been clear enough in his video rants. As a columnist wrote, "Associating misogyny with a mass murder would mean having to recognize just how dangerous misogyny really is." But as women started sharing their everyday experiences with misogyny, the hashtag became a powerful tool for them to have the conversation uninterrupted by the ‘not all men’ shutdown. In less than two days since the shooting, #YesAllWomen was attached to 1.2 million tweets globally, being shared from as far as Pakistan and Qatar.
 
  
  
 
  Read together, the threads paint a picture that looks more like a dystopian universe, and gave pause to many who have trouble believing just how tough being a woman can be even in the 'civilised world'. "My husband didn’t ‘get it’ till he spent half an hour on the feed and then he looked ashen,” a tweet said. After the Bengaluru mass molestations on New Year’s Eve, the national reaction was #NotAllMen, because incredibly, or perhaps naturally, someone felt it was imperative to make the narrative about not all men being perverts and criminals, instead of about the men who were perverts and criminals, or the women who had to suffer them. But it was quickly drowned out by #YesAllWomen, employed once again as a reminder of the misogyny, fear and harassment that women live with every day. #NotAllMen can be so obsessively self-involved, maybe?
 
  #
 
 In 2015, a Nobel laureate summed up what he thought was all women scientists were good for. At a conference, British biochemist Tim Hunt said what the "trouble with girls" was that "Three things happen when they are in the lab. You fall in love with them, they fall in love with you, and when you criticise them they cry.” The eyebrows of women scientists that collectively went up weren’t held down by his clarification that his comment was supposed to be "light-hearted and ironic" either. Even as a joke, they weren't amused, because as statistics have shown, implicit, even light-hearted stereotypes about women in math or science have a real impact, evident in the paucity of women scientists, mathematicians, coders or engineers. 
 
  
  
 
 Hunt had to resign from his post at   London after the controversy. But not before lady nerds had shown those who have never stepped inside a lab just how dangerous and sexy they are, and exactly where they thought Hunt’s opinion belonged – in a putri-dish.
 
  
 Who exactly is a nasty woman? Immediately after Donald Trump interrupted   in the middle of the final presidential debate to mouth, "Such a nasty woman," Twitter erupted with answers. 'Nasty women' (and men) took no time to co-opt the gendered phrase as a new slogan for empowerment. Well, nasty women get stuff done!
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
