GURUGRAM: Three directors of city-based   Private Limited have been chargesheeted allegedly for   hundreds of  , misappropriating investors’ money and flouting building norms.

 The three directors are Ramanpuri and his two sons Vikrampuri and Varunpuri, and the case pertains to Universal Aura project in Sector 82.
 
 First class judicial magistrate Kamran Khan slapped charges on the three under sections 420 (cheating) and 409 (criminal breach of trust) of the IPC and section 10 of the Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Area Act.
 
 The court observed that the   sold flats at its Universal Aura project without getting an approval for the building plan from the department concerned. Then, it neither handed over the possession of the flats to the buyers nor did it return their money, which tantamount to cheating.
 
 Denying the allegations, the lawyer, representing the developer, contended that there was no material on record to frame the charges. “We pleaded not guilty. We will contest the case in court,” she said.
 
 Universal Buildwell had launched Universal Aura in Sector 82 in 2010 and had promised to complete the project by 2014. The developer had managed to sell off most of the 596 units, each costing between Rs 53 lakh and Rs 1 crore. However, even after missing several deadlines, the developer completed only 50% of the work till date.
 
 “The developer had collected almost 80% of the cost from buyers till June 2014. Yet it stopped construction at the site around two years ago,” said Chandrika Jaitely, president of Universal Aura Welfare Association. “Investors are forced to pay EMIs as well as rents but they are not sure when will they get the possession of their flats.”
 
 In 2014, following repeated complaints from homebuyers, the enforcement wing of the department of town and country planning (DTCP) carried out a preliminary inquiry and recommended criminal proceedings against the Universal directors.
 
 “Prima facie evidence suggested violation of the licence norms by the developer. Thus, we had requested police to file an FIR against the developer,” said a senior DTCP official. Finally, the police filed an FIR against the three directors in March.
 
 Pratyush Pranjal, one of the homebuyers, said, “Several police complaints were filed against the developer. Finally, the court has framed charges against them last week. We are hopeful now, as only court is acting against erring developers to protect the interests of buyers.” 
 
