NOIDA: Members of Arun Vihar Residents Welfare Association ( ) sector 37 met   ( ) president N P Singh on Wednesday and discussed a host of pending civic issues including open storm-water drain, which has become a breeding ground of mosquitoes, increasing stray dog menace and various issues around the local markets - Brahmaputra, Godavari and Ganga shopping - which have remained unattended despite many attempts in the past.

 “We have been saddled with an open storm-water drain (the main nala) which, though covered from Vishwa Bharti School, is uncovered from our residential area to Brahmputra market in the sector where local shops and eateries throw garbage in it. As a result, it has become a breeding ground for mosquitoes raising threat of dengue and chikungunya,” said Col (rtd) O P Mehta, chairman AVRWA which caters to sectors 28, 29 and 37.
 
 Col Mehta adds that “we are old, senior people retired from the army and as pensioners we do not have the means or the energy to fight a sustained campaign against civic issues facing our sector. But due to our age, we are most susceptible to illness as we face the brunt of lack of hygiene due to this open drain. Last year many of our residents fell ill to chikungunya and dengue leaving them very frail for a long time.”
 
 According to Col Mehta who has been elected 5th time as chairman of the sector RWA, not once has authority looked into their demand for cleaning of the drain which is clogged with silt and has no outlet leading to spilling of sewer water and foul smell in most residents’ homes. “Even my predecessors had raised this issue where we’ve written letters to authority CEO, DCEO and ACEO to cover up the drain and hire machines for its cleaning up, but no action or reply came forth from authority, which is why we apprised Mr Singh from FONRWA to take up the matter and find a solution to it,” said Col Mehta.
 
 Another issue which has reached unwieldly situation pertains to the stray dog menace in the sector. “Despite repeated meetings by FONRWA as well as AVRWA earlier, raising the issue on many platforms, the matter is still pending addressal. Though steps were taken by authority recently on finding a solution to the dog menace in residential sectors, but no action has been taken on ground in our sector which is afflicted with nearly hundred  . Many residents have been bitten in the past as well as chased in the sector even as these dogs continue to multiply and litter all over,” Col Mehta told TOI.
 
 Add to that, there’s complete mayhem in the market area of Brahmaputra, Godavari and Ganga shopping complexes what with local eateries operating in sheer indiscipline manner littering garbage on the roads and the open drain. “There’s no movement of vehicular traffic possible in the market which is crowded with these small eating joints on the pavement and the road. The area doesn’t appear like one is living in any civil society,” said Col Mehta who has also complained to MLA   on the matter.
 
 “The response from Pankaj has been very positive and we are hopeful that some speedy solution to the drain and other issues comes of that meeting,” said Col Mehta.
 
 Meanwhile FONRWA president N P Singh assured AVRWA members that he will take up the matter with authority officials and promised all help in the direction.
 
