Bhopal: In a major milestone in the   Seva Yatra, 96 of the best known river and ecology experts of the country will brainstorm in Bhopalon Monday to formulate an action plan.

 The focus will be on finding ways to improve water quality and maintain flow. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan will be present at the discussion at RCVP Noronha Academy of Administration. A roadmap for preservation and protection will be drawn up at the end of the National Seminar on River, Water and Environmental Conservation.
 
 It’s times a week ahead of the conclusion of Narmada Seva Yatra at Amarkantak, which will be attended by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.
 
 Experts will be divided into five groups and discussions will be held on various topics, including recommendations on activities marked for protection of Narmada River under the Narmada Seva mission formed by state government. The current status of conservation and restoration of rivers and reservoirs of state, status of economic activities and utilization of resources dependent of River Narmada will be discussed.
 
 A crucial aspect will be society’s role in preserving the river. The seva yatra has attracted participation of lakhs of people across social strata and has been blessed by the likes of Dalai Lama and Sri Sri Ravishankar. The experts will also draw up a list of challenges and demands of the future and suggest ways to overcome them.
 
 Narmada Seva Yatra is a campaign conceived and coordinated by the Madhya Pradesh government as a people’s movement to protect the environment. It started on December 11, 2016, and will conclude on May 15, 2017. As part of the mission to save the river, the government aims to plant 5.5 crore trees in the Narmada basin on July 2 and said it will be ensured that trees survive by roping in local bodies and giving them funds. 
 
 Already 21 lakh litres of industrial waste has been stopped from flowing into the Narmada, officials said. The remaining 4 lakh litres will be stopped within a year.
 
 
