PUNE: It’s not just the spotless character record of   that speaks to voters, a study has found that most   would also like them to be easily accessible, and also capable of developing their constituency. 

 In a bid to understand the preferences of voters from urban areas, the state election commission had commissioned the study, by the Gokhale Institute of Politics and Economics. 
 
 With 10 municipal corporations set to go to the polls next month, it was important for the SEC to understand on what basis voters in cities across the state cast their ballot. 
 
 “What voters expect from their candidates and what kind of candidates they will vote for, was the main focus of the study,” said Manasi Phadke, who headed the study. 
 
 So while all other criteria were deemed important, the top three according to the study were  , a good education and the ability to present ward-level issues at local body meetings.
 
 “While every individual highlighted a non-corrupt and non-criminal background as an important factor, many stressed that the candidate must be easily accessible and have a thorough knowledge of the work to be done in the area,” Phadke said.
 
 Interestingly enough, some voters were even ready to turn a blind eye to a criminal background or even corruption if the candidate was easily accessible. “There is no point having a highly-educated, clean candidate who would not reach out to citizens post-elections,” Phadke added.
 
 Another point raised through the study was how the candidates’ details were not readily available for local government elections, as compared to assembly elections. This was taken under consideration by the election commission, which announced that the candidates must upload two-minute video clips about themselves, and that the copies of affidavits are to published in newspapers as well as displayed at the polling stations.
 
 “The video clips would give a clear picture of the candidate they want to vote for,” said election officials.
 
  “This was a clear indication that voters wanted to take a more informed decision,” said Phadke. 
 
 The presence of criminal elements in politics is also something that voters feel strongly about, with 90% believing that ‘criminalization’ keeps deserving candidates out. Also, 94% would like the authorities to keep such criminal elements away from local body elections. 
 
 Another interesting finding was that most urban voters found it easy to relate to younger candidates. If such candidates had a good educational background and experience in community work, it was welcomed further. 
 
 The respondents were also vocal about politically-influential backgrounds of the candidates. Also, nearly 80% feel that corruption is rampant among candidates.
 
 While happy with 50% of seats being reserved for women, urban voters fear that women candidates are mere proxies of the male politicians in their families, with no standing of their own.
 
 
