LUCKNOW:   has   for admissions to 98 courses for this session, leaving students in the lurch. 

 The decision came after the   who was entrusted with the task of setting the question paper for the entrance exams was   by the Central Bureau of Investigation. Prof Vipin Saxena and his assistant Vijay Dwivedi were arrested on June 2 for accepting Rs 50,000 as bribe from a contractual teacher.
 
 University spokesperson Prof Govind Pandey said, “On the basis of the recommendations of a committee, the university has decided to cancel the exams. The cancellation is to maintain the sanctity of exams.” 
 
  could only hold entrance tests for 62 courses while those for remaining 36 were postponed following the arrest. Now, all exams stand cancelled. Those which had been conducted are null and void. 
 
 Close to 13,000 candidates had applied for   to these courses. The academic session is scheduled to begin from August 1. 
 
 On June 15, the vice-chancellor had constituted a seven-member committee to decide the fate of the  . Prof SK Bhatnagar was its chairman and Prof RA Khan its convener. Prof Khan was also the admission coordinator. 
 
 The university is now looking at other options for admissions. Considering time-bound admissions, the university might go for merit-based or an offline mode of admissions. 
 
 The vice-chancellor has asked the controller of examinations and dean, academics, to look at modalities for conducting fresh entrance tests. If the university chooses the latter, the academic session will be delayed by around two months. If admissions are done on merit basis, the session might begin by August-end, a derailment of a month. 
 
 “Even if we begin the fresh process for conducting entrance tests in a war footing manner, it will take not less than one and half months to complete admissions,” said an official of the admission cell. 
 
 Saxena was caught after a teacher whose contract was up for renewal informed CBI through an acquaintance that he was demanding Rs 50,000 to extend his tenure. He also tipped the CBI that similar demands had been put forth before 27 more teachers serving the university on contractual basis. 
 
 The agency laid a trap on June 2 when the man went inside Saxena's cabin. He handed over the money to him which was collected by Dwivedi. Sleuths from anti-corruption branch of the agency in plain clothes stationed in the corridor entered the cabin and caught Saxena accepting the money.
 
 Following this, the university removed Saxena as the dean of the school of information science technology, and dean school of education. He also headed the university’s recruitment cell for non-teaching staff, and was the director of the university institute of engineering and technology. Both charges were taken away from him. 
 
 
