New Delhi: Aam Aadmi Party has questioned the order of lieutenant governor Anil Baijal to recover Rs 97 crore from it for advertisements issued by the Delhi government. A three-member content regulation panel set up on Supreme Court’s directions had concluded that the advertisements promoted AAP and chief minister  . The advertisements were in violation of Supreme Court guidelines. 

 Deputy chief minister   said the party had received the letter ordering it to reimburse Rs 97 crore within a month and it may look at legal options. "We will let you know when we take the legal recourse," he said, addressing a press conference.
 
 Sisodia questioned the authority of the panel to recommend the recovery of money from AAP, questioning its neutrality. Naming two members of the panel, he alleged that they were inclined towards BJP. “Congress and BJP are trying to project as if AAP was involved in some kind of a scam,” he said. “Are we the first to issue advertisements about the achievements of the government? Previous governments held seminars in foreign countries for this purpose. Why is the Delhi government being singled out,”   asked.
 
 Striking a defiant note, he said: “Why should AAP pay? Did AAP order those advertisements? Is it wrong to inform people about the welfare schemes and achievements in the field of education and health? An entire group of officers engaged in crucial projects of the government was transferred which led to stalling of the projects. Should the government not tell people about that,” he asked.
 
 Sisodia said the content regulation panel was not empowered to make recommendations to recover the money and SC guidelines had made no mention of that. In the wake of petitions seeking SC intervention to ensure that the governments do not use exchequer money to issue advertisements disguised as promotion of political parties, the Supreme Court in 2015 asked the Centre to set up a committee of people with impeachable neutrality to keep a watch on government advertisements which intend to promote a political party and recommend action.
 
 Sisodia said all this was happening soon after AAP announced that it would waive house tax and defaulters’ arrears when it wins the municipal elections in Delhi. “The people know that AAP will implement it just as we halved the cost of electricity and made water free. People have positively reacted to our announcement. The political parties are unable to digest the people’s reaction on the house tax issue,” he said. 
 
 Earlier, AAP’s advertisements had come under CAG scanner. CAG found that the AAP government had spent Rs 29 crore in advertisements outside Delhi. It said that this was not in keeping with financial propriety and SC guidelines.
 
 The committee on content regulation of government advertising had forwarded its report to the Delhi chief secretary through a September 16 letter last year for action on the issue. The committee had directed the Delhi government to assess the expenditure incurred by it on certain categories of advertisements and get it reimbursed from the political party concerned.
 
 Sources said monthly reminders since September from the committee to the  's office for an action taken report were forwarded to the Delhi government. On March 17, the LG's office is learnt to have received another letter from the committee saying it was still awaiting a reply . Finally, Baijal is learnt to have called for the file through the chief secretary to know the status and cause of the delay and ordered recovery.
 
