NAGPUR: In some good news for the engineering aspirants, about 2,000 new engineering seats, that too in the government colleges, would be added from the next academic session (2017-18).

 These would be a part of six government polytechnics in   which the government has decided to upgrade to full-fledged degree colleges. They included — Latur, Solapur, Yavatmal, Ratnagiri, Dhule and Jalna. The decision was taken during recent cabinet meeting under chief minister   after which a proposal was dispatched to AICTE.
 
 “Each of these polytechnics has 300-350 seats, all of which would be converted into the degree courses. We would be offering degrees in all branches that are currently being run by these polytechnics. Even the new staff would be recruited after getting green signal,” technical education director Subhash Mahajan told TOI.
 
 Justifying the decision, he said the polytechnics were facing shortage of students and upgrading them to degree courses would at least attract them. “We are more or less sure to get AICTE’s nod to our proposal by April 30. The idea is to use existing infrastructure, facilities and staff for the new courses without making much of investment,” he said.
 
 With this addition, the numbers of   (GCOE) would rise to 14 from existing eight. Of them, Vidarbha has three — one each at Nagpur, Amravati and Chandrapur. The city-based GCOE was started in just last year and is affiliated to  , while Chandrapur GCOE is affiliated to Gondwana University. With Yavatmal polytechnic becoming GCOE, Vidarbha would have four colleges run by the government, that would be affiliated to the Amravati University. Currently, there are about 3,000 seats in these colleges which would cross 5,000 from July session.
 
 Even chancellor Ch Vidyasagar Rao, while lauding the government’s efforts on Monday, during his speech at Maharashtra legislature session in Mumbai, stated that the colleges were expected to start functioning from the next academic year.
 
 Other officials from the DTE informed that poor students who can’t afford to pay exorbitant fees charged by the private colleges would be immensely benefited. “The GCOEs charge minimum fees of just Rs25,000 onwards, against Rs1 lakh charges by the private ones. The students would obviously prefer pursuing their degree from the government — run colleges,” they said.
 
 They, however, apprehended that private institutions either working without full-time principals and teachers or offering with poor facilities would adversely hit by the decision. “Such colleges are already facing shortage. With addition of 2,000 seats at nominal fees, those would be forced to down the shutters. Already, the colleges working under NU are applying for closure of many of their branches. Last year, six of them applied for closure, including two from the city. Even the vacancies in degree courses touched 10,000 out of over 25,000 seats,” they informed.
 
 The polytechnics are also facing huge shortage of students. Last year, over 50% seats weren’t filled up, prompting the government to come out with this new concept of converting the poly seats into degree courses. There are about 40 polytechnics in state run by the government.
 
 
