MUMBAI: The recently-concluded   elections might have witnessed a contest for only 227  . However, in less than a month since the results were declared,   have been filed before the Small Causes Court citing a range of issues from unjustified tie results, faulty EVMs to submission of fake caste certificates and incorrect declaration of assets. Surprisingly , over 20 suchcases are still pending from the previous civic electionof 2012.

 On Monday , courtroom 18 of the Small Causes Court, Dhobi Talao, had four such matters listed.   candidate Surendra Bagalkar, who lost the election from ward 220, filed a petition seeking to declare BJP's Atul Shah's “selection“ invalid and requesting that five “tender votes“ be counted to decide the result. Under election laws, a person who comes to the polling centre and finds someone else has voted in his name on the EVM can cast a paper ballot.
 
 These ballots are known as tender votes, and are to be sealed and kept aside. Ward 220 had five such votes in a sealed packet, still uncounted. Shah and Bagalkar polled 5,946 votes each, after a recount. A lottery was drawn and a child picked the winner. The mat ter has been adjourned to April 6.
 
 Another case was filed by BJP candidate Ritu Tawde on March 4. Tawde lost to the Sena's Tukaram Krushna Patil in ward 127. Tawde's main contention is that her rival's nomination papers were filed incorrectly . “Not only was the candidate's verification signature missing on the affidavit, even his name was written differently in separate columns of the nomination papers,“ Tawde said. She alleged that the dual identity used by the candidate called for disqualification.
 
 Her petition too will come up for hearing next month.
 
 The new petitions will now join the cases left over from the previous election.Several of the cases filed in 2012 have been disposed of after the petitioners did not follow them up in court.
 
 Interestingly , in a case that saw victory for the losing candidate, in July last year, a corporator's election with 8,484 votes was declared null and void just a few months shy of the end of his five-year tenure.
 
