INDORE: The Indore bench of Madhya Pradesh high court has sought the 2013 detailed project report (DPR) of the metro rail project and its pre-feasibility report, in connection to the   petition against   general secretary Kailash  .

 Engineer-in-chief and director (technical) of  , JK Dubey has been asked to submit this report so that the allegations on chief minister   of making false promises could be decided upon.
 
 Justice Alok Verma has directed the state government’s counsel Sudhanshu Vyas to ensure the reports are submitted before the court on or before March 24.
 
 Allegations have been made against Chouhan and Vijayvargiya that he had unethically promised the extension of the metro rail to Mhow in a public meeting in Mhow while electioneering. To decide these allegations, the court has sought the 2013 metro project DPR.
 
 “The 2015 project DPR had been submitted by Dubey on the previous hearing, after which the court had sought for the pre-feasibility report and the DPR prepared in 2013,” Vibhor Khandelwal, petitioner’s counsel told TOI.
 
 Meanwhile arguments were also made by both the parties regarding the necessity of a document regarding CDs containing the video of the Moharram incident.
 
 The court had earlier directed SHO of Mhow’s police station Dinesh Singh Chouhan to give a certificate under section 65B, stating that he had made copies of the CD containing video of the Moharram incident.
 
 Chouhan in his affidavit said he had asked a constable at the police station to make copies of those CDs and since the certificate under section 65B can only be filed by the person who copied the CDs, he could not submit the certificate. The constable told the court that he too did not make copies of the CDs and instead had asked a local shop owner to do it, who is now dead.
 
 The petitioner submitted an application in court stating that if the certificate is issued by Chouhan it will fulfill the purpose as he was in-charge of the station by which the videography was undertaken. The petitioner also said he was ready to face the consequence of such a submission.
 
 However, this prayer was argued by Vijayvargiya’s counsel on grounds that Chouhan was not competent to give such a certificate since he did not make copies of the CD.
 
 The court reserved the order on this application and fixed the date for the next hearing on March 24, 2017.
 
 
