AURANGABAD: Five policemen attached to the crime branch of the city police were suspended on Friday after a suspected motorcycle thief died while in their custody.

 The crime branch, in a written statement, said that the youth,   (24), had jumped out of a moving police vehicle on Thursday evening while being taken to a place from where motorcycles had been stolen. However, Gaikwad’s family alleged that he had been illegally detained by the police since Wednesday and tortured in custody, which led to his death.
 
 The suspended policemen are head constables Ashok Narwade and  , police naik   and constables   and Feroz Khan Shaukat Khan.
 
 Police commissioner Amitesh Kumar has handed over the case to the state criminal investigation department (CID). Seeking to endorse the crime branch statement, he said, “The two friends of the deceased were produced before his parents and they said he sustained injuries after jumping out of the jeep when they were returning from a crime spot in Newasa.”
 
 An in-camera autopsy was performed at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) but Gaikwad’s family members refused to accept the body till a murder case was registered against the policemen.
 
 In their statement, a copy of which is with TOI, the crime branch said that the five policemen were patrolling the MIDC Waluj area on Thursday when they received a tip-off around 5pm that a motorcycle thief was to come to Limbejalgaon Phata. “The policemen reached the spot at 5.45pm and laid a trap. At 8pm, Gaikwad and his accomplices, Sajan Gaikwad (23) and Laxman Tupe (28) came walking to Limbejalgaon from  . We detained them for questioning,” the statement read.
 
 The crime branch said Gaikwad confessed to having stolen motorcycles in areas coming under the MIDC Waluj and Cantonment police stations. “His two accomplices were, however, found to be innocent. Gaikwad agreed to show the policemen a spot from where he had stolen a motorcycle. The policemen put Gaikwad in the rear seat of the jeep and his two accomplices in the middle seat. A policeman was sitting with Gaikwad in the rear seat,” the statement read.
 
 The crime branch said that during the journey, Gaikwad suddenly jumped out of a window which did not have a glass. “He fell on a road divider and sustained serious injuries. He was rushed to the GMCH with the help of his accomplices. He succumbed to his injuries around 4.30am on Friday,” according to the statement.
 
 However, Gaikwad’s family had a different story to tell. His father, Arjun, said, “My son was picked up from our farm on Wednesday. When I heard of this, I rushed to Aurangabad in a state transport bus. I heard my son crying at the crime branch office while he was being beaten by the policemen. I was not allowed to meet him even hours after pleading with the policemen. My son died in their custody due to torture. Now, they have cooked up this story of accidental death.”
 
 Gaikwad’s family members met Kumar and submitted a list of demands, including registration of a murder case against the policemen, allotment of a government job to one of the family members and Rs 25 lakh as compensation. Gaikwad is survived by his wife and two children. His parents are farmers.
 
 A senior crime branch official told TOI that the police records show Gaikwad as having a case of theft and dacoity against him.
 
