KOCHI: The   (MVD) will issue notice to   (AIMS) for using a school bus to transport pilgrims following the tragic accident in which four youth were killed at  .

 MVD officials said that the police investigation had identified an attempt to overtake as the cause of the accident. “Our investigation points towards this scenario. There are no eyewitnesses because the people in the bus were sleeping and passengers in the car who survived the accident are unable to recollect the incident. When we questioned the bus driver, he said that he lost control of the vehicle,“ said Biju James, Joint regional transport officer.
 
 The school bus was carrying devotees from   in Vallikavu.
 
 James said the bus driver's licence has been confiscated. He has been charged with 'culpable homicide not amounting to murder'. The licence would be suspended for a year in case the court finds him guilty .
 
 “It was a school bus that was carrying the pilgrims.The motor vehicle rules cle arly state that a school bus has to be used for education institution purposes only . We have identified that the bus is registered under the name of a manager at AIMS, and we will be sending him a notice,“ said James.
 
 Three students from Cochin University of Science and Technology (Cusat) who were travelling in the car that met with the accident are currently undergoing medical treatment at Aster MedCity .
 
 “Athira Sasikumar and Athulya Nair have undergone ortho surgery and are currently at the Surgical Intensive Care Unit. Gudiya S Lal had to be given ventilator support earlier on Tuesday , but her condition later stabilised. She is currently undergoing spinal and ortho surgeries,“ said officials from the hospital.
 
 James said the investigation revealed that pillion rider of the bike might have survived the accident if he had worn a helmet. He said that over 42 accidents have taken place on Varapuzha bridge in 2016. “Some of these accidents were gruesome.The road is already too narrow, several accidents happen because of people attempting to overtake,“ said James..
 
